1. Farm Hosp. 2025 Sep 13:S1130-6343(25)00121-7. doi:
10.1016/j.farma.2025.08.008.  Online ahead of print.

[Translated article] New Alzheimer disease's treatments: Hope or disappointment.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Sevilla-Sánchez D(1), Garza-Martínez AJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Farmacia, Parc Sanitari Pere Virgili, Barcelona, Spain; Research 
Group on Aging, REFiT, Vall d'Hebron Institute of Research (VHIR), Barcelona, 
Spain. Electronic address: danielsevillasanchez@gmail.com.
(2)Servicio de Geriatría, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal (IRICYS), Madrid, 
Spain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.farma.2025.08.008
PMID: 40947316

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest None declared.


2. BMJ Open. 2025 Sep 14;15(9):e096206. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-096206.

Rising to the challenges of research in multiple long-term conditions: health 
and social care research ecosystem approaches.

De Soyza A(1), Goodwin VA(2)(3), Roberts K(4), Masoli J(5)(6), Mathews J(7), 
Wilding J(8), Nestor G(9), Bower P(10).

Author information:
(1)Newcastle University Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, UK.
(2)Ageing and Rehabilitation, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(3)NIHR Applied Research Collaboration South West Peninsula, Exeter, UK.
(4)MRC Clinical Trials Unit at UCL, Institute of Clinical Trials and 
Methodology, University College London, London, UK.
(5)Ageing and Honorary Consultant Geriatrician, Department of Clinical and 
Biomedical Science, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(6)Health and Care Director and Ageing Lead, NIHR South West Peninsula Research 
Delivery Network, Exeter, UK.
(7)NIHR Research Delivery Network Coordinating Centre, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK jacqueline.mathews@nihr.ac.uk.
(8)Department of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine, University of Liverpool 
Institute of Life Course and Medical Sciences, Liverpool, UK.
(9)NIHR Research Delivery Network Coordinating Centre, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(10)NIHR Applied Research Collaboration Greater Manchester, University of 
Manchester, Manchester, UK.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this article is to share insights from the National 
Institute for Health and Care Research Clinical Research Network (NIHR CRN) in 
delivering research for Multiple Long Term Conditions (MLTC) and to highlight 
lessons of wider relevance across the research ecosystem.
KEY REFLECTIONS: Designing health and care systems to be more responsive to the 
needs of people living with MLTC requires a considerable evidence base. When 
compared with research focused on a single disease area, research relating to 
MLTC raises unique considerations at the stages of planning, placing, and 
delivering research studies. Our article describes challenges associated with 
MLTC research outcomes and outlines different types of interventions to target 
MLTC, along with related research delivery considerations. Our article also 
raises important considerations for placing research in the most appropriate 
setting and highlights the vital role of robust feasibility studies, informed by 
the lived experience of patients and carers with MLTC, for ensuring that studies 
are conducted, recruited to, and completed in a timely and appropriate way.
CONCLUSION: Increasing the evidence base for the prevention and management of 
MLTC is a necessity for our health and care system. This presents novel 
challenges that require collaboration between multiple stakeholders. The UK 
benefits from a unique research infrastructure, including support for the stages 
of planning and delivery of health and care research. As the health and care 
system moves towards bringing care closer to patients and service users, the 
appropriate selection of the health and care settings and research sites in 
which to deliver MLTC research, in addition to understanding and removing 
barriers to recruitment and participation for people with MLTCs, are important 
considerations to enable us to collectively respond to this challenge.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-096206
PMCID: PMC12434738
PMID: 40947303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: VG was NIHR CRN SouthWest 
Peninsula Lead for Ageing and has received grants from NIHR, Dunhill Medical 
Trust and Alzheimer’s Society. She is funded by NIHR Applied Research 
Collaboration South West Peninsula and is an NIHR Senior Investigator. PB was 
NIHR CRN National Specialty Lead for Health Services Delivery and has received 
grants from Novartis and Novo Nordisk via the NIHR ARC Greater Manchester 
outside the published work. KR was funded by NIHR CRN and Imperial College and 
was CRN MLTC Manager (2021-23). KR is currently funded by MRC-NIHR Trials 
Methodology Research Partnership’s Doctoral Training Programme (MR/W006049/) 
outside of the present work. GN and JMathews were funded by NIHR CRN and 
University of Leeds. JMathews was Head of Cluster (Imperial College), NIHR CRN 
Coordinating Centre, MLTC Project Lead for NIHR CRN and a stakeholder member of 
NHS England’s MLTC Expert Reference Group. GN and JMathews now hold roles within 
the NIHR RDN. ADS has received grants from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Gilead, GSK 
Chiesi and Pfizer outside of the published work. ADS has received consulting 
fees from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Gilead, GSK, Chiesi, Insmed and Pfizer outside the 
published work. ADS has received fees from 30T, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Gilead, GSK, 
Insmed, Chiesi, Pfizer, Roche and Sanofi from outside the published work. ADS 
has received fees for participation in a Data Safety Monitoring Board for Bayer 
outside the published work. ADS has received support from AstraZeneca for 
attendance at meetings outside of the published work. ADS was NIHR Specialty 
Lead for Respiratory Disorders within the NIHR CRN. JMasoli is funded by an NIHR 
Advanced Fellowship (NIHR302270). JMasoli is funded by the Medical Research 
Council (MR/X004562/1) for a Community of Practice in Clinical Context and 
Pathways. JMasoli was NIHR Clinical Research Network Ageing and Multiple 
Long-Term Conditions Lead for South West Peninsula. JW has received consulting 
fees from Altimmune, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Cytoki, Keros 
pharmaceuticals. Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Menarini, Mundipharma, Pfizer, Rhythm 
Pharmaceuticals, Sanofi, Saniona, Tern, Shionogi and Ysopia outside of the 
published work. All consulting fees paid to University of Liverpool. JW has 
received grants paid to University of Liverpool from Novo Nordisk and 
Astrazeneca outside of the published work. JW has received lecture fees from 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Novo Nordisk and Medscape, and for contributions to a 
website on diabetes from Springer Nature outside of the published work. JW has 
received support from Novo Nordisk for travel to European Diabetes Meeting 2022 
and travel to the International Congress on Obesity 2022 outside of the 
published work. JW has been a DSMB member for a trial of dapagliflozin in recent 
MI for AstraZeneca outside of the published work. Fees paid to University of 
Liverpool. JW was the Chair of DSMB for trial of metformin in patients with HIV 
and impaired glucose regulation for the London School of Tropical Medicine (no 
payment). JW was the President of World Obesity Federation July 2020 to July 
2022 (unpaid) and Board Member World Obesity Federation May 2018 to July 2024 
(unpaid); the World Obesity Federation receives funding from multiple sources 
including several pharmaceutical companies. JW has been a member of the RCP 
Committee on Nutrition, Weight and Health (2018–2022), is a Member of Rank Prize 
Funds Nutrition Committee (unpaid) and was NIHR Specialty Lead for Metabolic and 
Endocrine Disorders within the NIHR CRN from 2008 to 2024 (paid). JW has been an 
advisor to NICE on obesity treatments (unpaid).


3. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2025 Sep 25;26(11):105872. doi:
10.1016/j.jamda.2025.105872.  Online ahead of print.

Utilization of Occupational and Physical Therapy Home Health Visits Among People 
Living With Dementia With Varying Social Determinants of Health.

Lassell RKF(1), Muruganand A(2), Gan A(3), Fletcher J(4), Lin SY(5), Brody 
AA(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Wellness Design, School of Public 
Health-Bloomington, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, USA; Center for Health 
by Design, School of Public Health-Bloomington, Indiana University, Bloomington, 
IN, USA; Regenstrief Institute, Indiana University Center for Aging Research, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA. Electronic address: blassell@iu.edu.
(2)Department of Population Health, New York University Grossman School of 
Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(3)College of Medicine-Tucson, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(4)Biostatistical Core, NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Hartford Institute for Geriatric Nursing, NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing, 
New York, NY, USA.
(6)Hartford Institute for Geriatric Nursing, NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing, 
New York, NY, USA; Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care, NYU 
Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.

OBJECTIVE: We sought to identify patterns in occupational therapy (OT) and 
physical therapy (PT) home health care visits among people living with dementia 
(PLWD) by (1) level of function care partner report compared with administrative 
data, (2) race and ethnicity, and (3) level of socioeconomic resources.
DESIGN: A secondary analysis.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: We used data collected from 152 PLWD-care partner 
dyads enrolled in a hybrid type I effectiveness trial at a large, urban, 
Medicare-certified, nonprofit home health care agency in the northeastern United 
States.
METHODS: Function was measured with the Caregiver Quality of Life Assistance in 
Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) and Assistance in Instrumental Activities of 
Daily Living (IADLs) subscales. PLWD's addresses were used to measure 
socioeconomic deprivation using the Area Deprivation Index (ADI). The number of 
OT/PT visits were calculated for the first 30 days of enrollment in the study 
with care partners' reports and administrative data. Visit data were compared 
and analyzed using a Wilcoxon signed-rank test and a zero-inflated negative 
binomial regression. Differences in the number of OT/PT visits was compared 
across racial and ethnic groups, ADI quartiles, and level of function using 
regression and controlling for education and comorbidities.
RESULTS: Hispanic (mean: 1.4, SD: 0.754) and non-Hispanic Black (mean: 1.6, SD: 
0.769) PLWD had significantly lower ADL function at baseline than White 
individuals (mean: 2.103, SD: 0.882) (P = .002) that increased over 30 days (P = 
.513). A significant difference existed between care partner and administrative 
reports in the number of PT visits (F = 0.97, P = .459) but not OT visits. There 
were no differences in OT/PT utilization based on race and ethnicity and 
socioeconomic resources.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Caregiver report was not reliable for PT visits 
received in home health care. OT/PT home health care utilization may help reduce 
disparities in ADL function across racial and ethnic groups.

Copyright © 2025 Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medical Association. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2025.105872
PMID: 40947101

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors declare no conflicts of 
interest.


4. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 12;1006:178154. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.178154. 
Online ahead of print.

Neuroprotective alpha-linolenic acid derived from black pepper targets PGK1 and 
activates the Nrf2 pathway in PC12 cells and mice.

Sun C(1), Cai X(2), Jiang X(2), Wen F(3), Wan L(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, 611137, 
China.
(2)Department of Biotherapy, Cancer Center and State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 610041, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, 611137, 
China. Electronic address: wfyxp963@126.com.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, 611137, 
China. Electronic address: wanli@cdutcm.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Oxidative stress is a significant contributor to neurodegenerative 
diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Nuclear factor 
E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a pivotal regulator of antioxidant responses, is an 
emerging therapeutic target for these conditions. Our study assessed the 
neuroprotective effects of monomeric compounds derived from black pepper against 
hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced damage in neuron-like PC12 cells. 
Alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) demonstrated superior protective effects.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism underlying the 
neuroprotective activity of ALA derived from black pepper.
METHODS: H2O2 induces oxidative stress in vitro, and MPTP induces Parkinson's 
syndrome in vivo. Proliferation and apoptosis assays, fluorescent dye staining, 
Western blotting, real-time PCR, immunofluorescence, luciferase reporter assays, 
behavioural experiments, and immunohistochemistry were performed to investigate 
the effects of ALA and the underlying mechanism in vitro and in vivo.
RESULTS: Our findings indicate that the ROS-scavenging and cytoprotective 
properties of ALA are likely mediated through Nrf2 activation and the 
upregulation of phase II antioxidant enzymes, including HO-1 and NQO1. Drug 
affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) assays revealed that ALA interacts 
with the PGK1 protein, potentially inhibiting its activity to promote Nrf2 
activation. In vivo, the oral administration of ALA (60 and 120 mg/kg) 
significantly mitigated the behavioural deficits associated with Parkinson's 
disease, preserved dopaminergic neurons in an MPTP-induced mouse model of PD, 
and relieved nerve inflammation.
CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that ALA may be a candidate neuroprotective agent 
for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, offering novel insights and 
potential therapeutic targets for future interventions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.178154
PMID: 40946953

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


5. Neuroscience. 2025 Oct 15;585:429-440. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.09.010.  Epub 2025 Sep 12.

A review of the TGF-β1 pathway in Alzheimer's disease and depression: Possible 
restoration potential of antidepressants.

Eleni I(1), Theofanis V(2), Zisis B(3), Eleni S(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki 54124 Thessaloniki, 
Greece.
(2)Department of Dentistry, European University Cyprus, Nicosia 2404, Cyprus; 
Laboratory of Biology and Genetics, School of Medicine, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece. Electronic address: tvavilis@auth.gr.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Aristotle University 
of Thessaloniki 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD), the most common type of dementia, is increasing 
rapidly in prevalence, while Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), the most frequent 
psychiatric condition, continues to pose significant global healthcare 
challenges. Recent hypotheses suggest that AD and MDD might be interrelated, 
potentially sharing common pathophysiological mechanisms. One possible central 
link is the Transforming Growth Factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) pathway. Reduced TGF-β1 
levels, a cytokine involved in inflammatory responses, have been observed in 
both conditions. In AD, diminished TGF-β1 might contribute to neurodegeneration 
and apoptosis, whereas in MDD it might lead to neurotransmitter dysregulation. 
The + 10C/C genotype of TGF-β1 may increase susceptibility to both disorders. 
Additionally, the detection of cortical β-amyloid (Aβ) in non-demented depressed 
patients and elevated Aβ levels in depressed AD patients compared with 
non-depressed AD patients might indicate overlapping mechanisms. These findings 
have led to growing interest in whether antidepressants, including SSRIs, SNRIs, 
TeCAs, TCAs, and ketamine, might have therapeutic potential in AD. Some 
preclinical and early clinical studies suggest that certain antidepressants, 
such as SSRIs (fluoxetine, sertraline, fluvoxamine, vortioxetine), SNRIs 
(venlafaxine), and ketamine, may exert neuroprotective effects or modulate Aβ 
toxicity. However, the evidence remains inconsistent and sometimes 
contradictory. Moreover, possible adverse effects, including the risk that 
long-term antidepressant use might worsen cognitive decline or accelerate 
cellular aging via pathways such as PI3K/Akt/mTOR, have been reported. These 
uncertainties highlight the need for further rigorous investigation to determine 
whether antidepressants could represent a viable therapeutic strategy in 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.09.010
PMID: 40946904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


6. Int Immunopharmacol. 2025 Sep 12;165:115489. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115489.  Online ahead of print.

Potential modulation of microglial ferroptosis by Linggui Zhugan decoction in 
Alzheimer's disease through IL-17 and TNF pathways.

Tang P(1), Zhao D(2), Lin H(2), Li X(2), Shi C(1), Li P(3), Chen H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Chengdu Integrated TCM & Western Medicine Hospital, 
Chengdu 610000, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, The First People's Hospital of Shuangliu District, 
West China (Airport) Hospital of Sichuan University, Chengdu 610000, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Chengdu Integrated TCM & Western Medicine Hospital, 
Chengdu 610000, China. Electronic address: 871122479@qq.com.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Gansu Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Lanzhou 730050, China. Electronic address: chenhbin11@163.com.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition marked by cognitive 
decline and memory loss, with ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated 
cell death, emerging as a contributing factor. This study explored the potential 
modulatory effects of key components of the traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) 
formula Linggui Zhugan Decoction (LZD) on microglial ferroptosis in AD, focusing 
on IL-17 and TNF signaling pathways. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we 
observed alterations in microglial populations and ferroptosis-related gene 
expression in AD mice. Network pharmacology and in vitro experiments indicated 
that LZD components might influence ferroptosis-related pathways, coinciding 
with reduced IL-17 and TNF levels in Aβ1-42-treated microglia. In vivo, LZD 
administration was associated with improved behavioral outcomes and modulation 
of ferroptosis markers. Although our findings suggest a correlation between LZD 
treatment and attenuation of ferroptosis-associated pathology, further 
mechanistic validation is necessary to establish causal links. This study 
provides preliminary evidence supporting the therapeutic potential of TCM in AD 
via inflammatory pathway modulation.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115489
PMID: 40945030

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. Ethical Statement All animal experiments were approved by the Animal 
Ethics Committee of Chengdu Integrated TCM & Western Medicine Hospital.


7. J Drug Target. 2025 Sep 19:1-18. doi: 10.1080/1061186X.2025.2561788. Online 
ahead of print.

Nanotechnology-driven approaches for the early detection and targeted treatment 
of Alzheimer's disease.

Sharma DK(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Siksha 'O' Anusandhan (Deemed to be 
University), Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.

A neurodegenerative condition called Alzheimer's disease (AD) is brought on by 
the buildup of beta-amyloid plaques in the brain. As of right now, AD has no 
known cure. The only thing the medications on the market can do is slow their 
development. Nonetheless, nanotechnology has demonstrated its superiority in its 
application in medicine. It has great promise for AD therapy, mostly in 
diagnosing the ailment and offering a different treatment method. Penetrating 
and bypassing the blood-brain barrier (BBB) increases the effectiveness of drug 
delivery. The most recent advancements in AD diagnosis using nanotechnology 
based on nanoparticles with optical sensing, electrochemical sensing, and 
imaging approaches are summarised in this study. When treating AD, nanocarriers 
help deliver the targeted medication. Since one of the newest and most active 
treatments for AD is nanomedicines, the main goal of this review is to 
comprehend the sophisticated application of nanocarriers for targeted drug 
delivery in AD treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/1061186X.2025.2561788
PMID: 40944899


8. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep 12:13872877251377793. doi:
10.1177/13872877251377793.  Online ahead of print.

Interplay of Glut1 alteration and Alzheimer's disease: A narrative review on 
glucose transport and energy metabolism.

Fakorede S(1), Sodiq TA(2), Ajagbe AO(3), Adeleke AJ(4), Edafetanure-Ibeh OM(5), 
Awobona TA(6), Aborode AT(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetics and Orthotics, Federal University of Technology, 
Owerri, Nigeria.
(2)Pharmacology Department Sa'adu Zungur University, Gadau, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Nile University of Nigeria, Abuja, Nigeria.
(4)Department of Natural Sciences, Coppin State University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)School of Public Health, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, USA.
(6)Department of Nursing, University of Houston Downtown, Houston, TX, USA.
(7)Department of Research and Development, Healthy Africans Platform, Ibadan, 
Nigeria.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder primarily 
affecting the aging population, characterized by progressive cognitive decline. 
Traditional models of AD pathogenesis, including the amyloid cascade and tau 
hypotheses, have not yielded definitive therapeutic breakthroughs. Emerging 
research suggests that metabolic dysfunction, particularly in glucose transport, 
plays a central role in AD progression. The glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), which 
facilitates glucose entry across the blood-brain barrier, is crucial for 
maintaining brain energy metabolism. Studies have shown reduced GLUT1 expression 
in AD brains, impairing cerebral glucose uptake and contributing to neuronal 
dysfunction and neurodegeneration. This review synthesizes current evidence on 
the interplay between GLUT1 alteration and AD, highlighting how disruptions in 
glucose transport can exacerbate the disease's neuropathological features, 
including amyloid and tau pathologies. Furthermore, we explore potential 
therapeutic strategies aimed at restoring GLUT1 function, such as gene therapy, 
ketogenic diets, and small molecules that enhance GLUT1 expression. These 
approaches may offer promising avenues to mitigate the metabolic dysfunction 
driving AD and improve patient outcomes. This work underscores the importance of 
integrating metabolic insights into AD research to develop innovative 
therapeutic targets and interventions.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251377793
PMID: 40944317


9. Nutrients. 2025 Sep 8;17(17):2896. doi: 10.3390/nu17172896.

Coenzyme Q10 and Cognition: A Review.

Nankivell MC(1), Rosenfeldt F(1)(2), Pipingas A(1), Pase MP(1)(3), Reddan JM(1), 
Stough C(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Mental Health and Brain Sciences, Swinburne University, Melbourne, 
VIC 3122, Australia.
(2)Baker Heart & Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, VIC 3004, Australia.
(3)School of Psychological Sciences, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC 3168, 
Australia.
(4)Metavate Consulting, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia.

Background and Objective: With an increase in the number of older citizens in 
most Western countries, cognitive decline is becoming an increasingly 
significant issue. Numerous age-related metabolic and physiological changes, 
such as increased inflammation and oxidative stress, decreased adenosine 
triphosphate (ATP) production, poorer cardiovascular function, and reduced 
cerebral blood flow, have been implicated in cognitive decline, prompting 
research into interventions. Among these, Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), an antioxidant 
and metabolic stimulant, has shown promise in improving some of the underlying 
biological mechanisms of cognitive decline. However, not much is known about the 
efficacy of CoQ10 supplementation on cognition in the elderly. Therefore, the 
aim of this review is to explore the efficacy of CoQ10 supplementation on 
cognitive function. Methods: We conducted a review of animal studies and human 
clinical trials investigating the effect of CoQ10 supplementation on cognition 
in samples who were healthy or with specific diseases. Overall, twelve studies 
demonstrated improved cognitive function and two showed a reduction in oxidative 
stress in response to CoQ10 supplementation, either alone or in combination with 
other compounds. Out of eight human clinical trials in healthy subjects (n = 2) 
and disease states (n = 6), four showed evidence of a beneficial effect of CoQ10 
supplementation on cognition, while two demonstrated an increase in cerebral 
blood flow. Disparity in the results of the clinical trials presented here is 
likely due to differing testing procedures, inconsistent use of cognitive 
assessments, and/or varying bioavailability of different preparations of CoQ10. 
Conclusions: There is some evidence to suggest that cognition and the biological 
mechanisms that regulate it are positively impacted by CoQ10 therapy. However, 
it is crucial to note that the literature presents mixed results, with many 
human clinical trials also reporting no benefit of CoQ10 supplementation on 
cognitive performance. To fully evaluate the benefits of CoQ10 on cognitive 
function in ageing and in neurodegenerative diseases, future studies are needed 
that target possible mechanisms and utilise a wider range of cognitive 
assessments.

DOI: 10.3390/nu17172896
PMCID: PMC12430131
PMID: 40944284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Prof Con Stough has received a grant 
administered by Swinburne University (Melbourne) from Kaneka (Japan) to study 
the effects of Co-Q10 (manufactured and supplied by Kaneka) on cognition and 
other outcomes. The funding for that grant pertains to the empirical clinical 
trial rather than this review but is nevertheless noted here. Additionally, 
Author Prof. Con Stough was employed by the company Metavate. The remaining 
authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial 
or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest. Prof Matthew Pase is a scientific advisor to the Alzheimer's Drug 
Discovery Foundation. He is in receipt of funding from the NIH, NHMRC, Alzheimer 
Association, Brain Foundation, and Bethlehem Griffith Research Foundation.


10. Nutrients. 2025 Sep 6;17(17):2884. doi: 10.3390/nu17172884.

The Neuroprotective Role of Curcumin: From Molecular Pathways to Clinical 
Translation-A Narrative Review.

Lehoczki A(1)(2)(3), Fekete M(1)(2), Jarecsny T(4), Zábó V(2)(5), Szappanos 
Á(5)(6), Csípő T(1)(2), Lipécz Á(1)(2), Major D(1)(2), Fazekas-Pongor V(1)(2), 
Varga P(1)(2)(3), Varga JT(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Semmelweis University, 
1085 Budapest, Hungary.
(2)Fodor Center for Prevention and Healthy Aging, Semmelweis University, 1085 
Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Health Sciences Division, Doctoral College, Semmelweis University, 1085 
Budapest, Hungary.
(4)Department of Neurology and Stroke, Saint John's Central Hospital of North 
Buda, 1125 Budapest, Hungary.
(5)Heart and Vascular Center, Semmelweis University, 1122 Budapest, Hungary.
(6)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Semmelweis University, 
1085 Budapest, Hungary.
(7)Department of Pulmonology, Semmelweis University, 1083 Budapest, Hungary.

Neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), and post-stroke cognitive impairment (PSCI), represent an 
escalating global health and economic challenge. In the quest for 
disease-modifying interventions, natural polyphenols-most notably curcumin, the 
principal bioactive compound of Curcuma longa-have attracted considerable 
interest due to their pleiotropic neuroprotective effects. This narrative review 
critically synthesizes findings from a selection of peer-reviewed articles 
published between 2000 and 2025, chosen for their relevance to curcumin's 
molecular mechanisms and translational potential. Curcumin's complex chemical 
structure confers antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and epigenetic modulatory 
properties; however, its clinical application is limited by poor oral 
bioavailability. Mechanistically, curcumin attenuates oxidative stress and 
suppresses key inflammatory mediators, including nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), 
cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). 
Additionally, it modulates apoptosis, inhibits amyloid-beta aggregation, and 
enhances cellular quality control processes such as autophagy and mitophagy, 
while upregulating neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor (BDNF). Preclinical studies employing rodent models of AD, PD, and 
ischemic stroke have demonstrated curcumin's dose-dependent neuroprotective 
efficacy, with improved outcomes observed using nanoparticle-based delivery 
systems. Early-phase clinical trials further support curcumin's favorable safety 
profile and potential cognitive benefits, although challenges remain regarding 
pharmacokinetics, formulation standardization, and therapeutic reproducibility. 
Future directions include the development of advanced drug delivery platforms, 
combinatory therapeutic regimens, and personalized medicine approaches 
integrating curcumin within multifaceted neurotherapeutic strategies. 
Collectively, this narrative review highlights curcumin as a promising 
multi-targeted candidate for combating neurodegenerative diseases, while 
emphasizing the need for further translational and clinical validation.

DOI: 10.3390/nu17172884
PMCID: PMC12430471
PMID: 40944272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


11. Nutrients. 2025 Sep 5;17(17):2877. doi: 10.3390/nu17172877.

The Neuroprotective Potential of Ocimum Plant Species: Seasoning the Mind with 
Sweet and Holy Basil.

Vasincu A(1), Rusu RN(1), Ababei DC(1), Bulea D(1), Arcan OD(1), Vasincu IM(2), 
Beșchea Chiriac S(3), Popescu IR(4), Bild W(4)(5), Bild V(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Pharmacy, "Grigore T Popa" 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 16 Universitatii Street, 700115 Iasi, 
Romania.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, "Grigore T Popa" University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, 16 Universitatii Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(3)Department of Veterinary Toxicology, "Ion Ionescu de la Brad" University of 
Life Sciences, 8 M. Sadoveanu Alley, 700489 Iasi, Romania.
(4)Department of Physiology, "Grigore T Popa" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 16 Universitatii Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(5)"Olga Necrasov" Center of Anthropological and Biomedical Research, Romanian 
Academy, Iasi Branch, 700506 Iasi, Romania.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) encompass a group of chronic conditions, 
characterized by neuronal losses in large areas of the brain, leading to 
cognitive and behavioral impairments. Alzheimer's Disease (AD), the most common 
form of dementia, is a progressive ND, characterized by the accumulation of 
amyloid β and tau protein, entails cognitive decline, neuroinflammation, 
mitochondrial dysfunction, and blood-brain barrier impairment, with oxidative 
stress playing a critical role in its pathogenesis. To date, the available 
pharmacotherapy has shown limited efficacy, and multitarget activity of 
plant-derived neuroprotective bioactive compounds is currently in focus. This 
review synthesizes experimental evidence regarding Ocimum species with 
neuroprotective potential in AD, particularly Ocimum sanctum and Ocimum 
basilicum. These plants are rich in bioactive compounds including polyphenols, 
flavonoids, essential oils, and triterpenoids that synergistically scavenge 
reactive oxygen/nitrogen species, upregulate endogenous antioxidant enzymes 
(SOD, CAT, and GPx), and reduce lipid peroxidation. Furthermore, these extracts 
have demonstrated the ability to decrease β-amyloid accumulation and tau protein 
levels, key pathological features of AD. Even though additional research is 
required to fully assess their potential as therapeutic agents for NDs, by 
diving into the specific mechanisms through which they improve neurodegenerative 
processes, important steps can be made towards this endpoint.

DOI: 10.3390/nu17172877
PMCID: PMC12430141
PMID: 40944265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


12. J Clin Med. 2025 Aug 26;14(17):6047. doi: 10.3390/jcm14176047.

Clinical Significance of APOE4 Genotyping: Potential for Personalized Therapy 
and Early Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease.

Rajič Bumber J(1), Rački V(2)(3), Mežnarić S(1), Pelčić G(4)(5), Mršić-Pelčić 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Rijeka, 51000 Rijeka, Croatia.
(2)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Rijeka, 51000 
Rijeka, Croatia.
(3)Department of Neurology, Clinical Hospital Centre Rijeka, 51000 Rijeka, 
Croatia.
(4)Health Care Center of Primorsko-Goranska County, Rijeka, 51000 Rijeka, 
Croatia.
(5)Department of Social Sciences and Medical Humanities, School of Medicine, 
University of Rijeka, 51000 Rijeka, Croatia.

Apolipoprotein E (APOE) remains the most robust and widely replicated genetic 
risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) susceptibility, with the ε4 
allele (APOE4) demonstrating profound associations with accelerated symptom 
manifestation, enhanced disease trajectory, and modified therapeutic 
responsiveness. This comprehensive review synthesizes contemporary evidence 
regarding the clinical utility of APOE4 genotyping, emphasizing its integration 
into personalized therapeutic frameworks and early diagnostic paradigms. The 
APOE4 variant exerts pathogenic influence through impaired amyloid-β clearance, 
enhanced tau pathology, and compromised neuronal repair mechanisms that alter 
disease phenotype. We systematically examine available genotyping methodologies, 
encompassing polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and next-generation sequencing 
(NGS) platforms, and evaluate their practical implementation within clinical 
environments. Recent investigations demonstrate that APOE4 status profoundly 
influences therapeutic efficacy, particularly with anti-amyloid interventions 
such as lecanemab, where carriers exhibit enhanced treatment response alongside 
increased adverse event susceptibility. Emerging gene therapeutic approaches 
show promise in mitigating APOE4-associated risks through targeted molecular 
interventions. The integration of APOE4 genotyping with fluid biomarkers and 
neuroimaging techniques enables refined patient stratification and enhanced 
diagnostic precision, facilitating earlier intervention windows that optimize 
therapeutic outcomes before irreversible neuronal damage occurs. This review 
underscores APOE4 testing as a transformative component of precision medicine in 
AD management, emphasizing its contribution to diagnostic refinement, clinical 
decision support, and targeted therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm14176047
PMCID: PMC12429504
PMID: 40943807

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


13. J Clin Med. 2025 Aug 22;14(17):5926. doi: 10.3390/jcm14175926.

Ethnic Differences in Dementia Diagnosis and Treatment in Israel.

Bishara H(1), Cohen H(2), Hadar D(2), Specktor P(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department, Carmel Medical Center, Haifa 3436212, Israel.
(2)Research Department, Carmel Medical Center, Haifa 3436212, Israel.

Background/Objectives: Lifestyle and socioeconomic disparities influence 
dementia prevalence and treatment across ethnic groups worldwide. Our study 
aimed to examine differences in the diagnosis, work-up, and treatment of mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) as well as various types of dementia provided to Arab 
and Jewish participants in Israel. Methods: Data were collected retrospectively 
and anonymously between 1 January 2010 and 12 September 2021, by Clalit Health 
Services' research department. Ethnicity was determined based on residence, 
including only cities with a 99% majority of either Jewish or Arab participants, 
according to the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS). Subjects over the age of 60 
with an MCI or dementia diagnosis were analyzed. Results: Of 212,091 diagnosed 
individuals, 14,742 were of a definite ethnicity as defined. The mean age at 
diagnosis was significantly younger for Arab participants (75.78 ± 10.28) 
compared to Jewish participants (80.14 ± 9.45) (p < 0.001). The gender 
distribution was similar (42.5% male). The most common diagnosis was Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), affecting 2495 (29.8%) of Jewish participants and 2387 (38%) of 
Arab participants (p < 0.001). Vascular dementia (VD) was also more prevalent in 
Arab participants, 12.6%, vs. 6.42% in Jewish participants (p < 0.001). MCI was 
more common in Jewish participants, 26.2%, compared to 10.3% in Arab 
participants (p < 0.001). Conclusions: Arab participants were diagnosed with 
dementia at a younger age and showed higher rates of AD and VD diagnosis 
compared to Jewish participants, but were significantly less likely to be 
diagnosed with MCI. Efforts to understand and address these underlying causes 
are warranted to promote health equity.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm14175926
PMCID: PMC12429298
PMID: 40943686

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


14. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 7;26(17):8726. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178726.

Acetylcholinesterase as a Multifunctional Target in Amyloid-Driven 
Neurodegeneration: From Dual-Site Inhibitors to Anti-Agregation Strategies.

Grabowska W(1), Bijak M(1), Szelenberger R(1), Gorniak L(1), Podogrocki M(1), 
Harmata P(2), Cichon N(1).

Author information:
(1)Biohazard Prevention Centre, Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection, 
University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Advanced Technologies and Chemistry, Military University of 
Technology, 2 gen. S. Kaliskiego St., 00-908 Warsaw, Poland.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) has emerged not only as a cholinergic enzyme but 
also as a modulator of β-amyloid (Aβ) aggregation via its peripheral anionic 
site (PAS), making it a dual-purpose target in Alzheimer's disease. While 
classical AChE inhibitors provide symptomatic relief, they lack efficacy against 
the amyloidogenic cascade. This review highlights recent advances in 
multifunctional AChE pharmacophores that inhibit enzymatic activity while 
simultaneously interfering with Aβ aggregation, oxidative stress, metal 
dyshomeostasis, and neuroinflammation. Particular emphasis is placed on 
dual-site inhibitors targeting both catalytic and peripheral domains, 
multi-target-directed ligands (MTDLs) acting on multiple neurodegenerative 
pathways, and metal-chelating hybrids that address redox-active metal ions 
promoting Aβ fibrillization. We also discuss enabling technologies such as 
AI-assisted drug design, high-resolution structural tools, and human induced 
pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neuronal models that support 
physiologically relevant validation. These insights reflect a paradigm shift 
towards disease-modifying therapies that bridge molecular pharmacology and 
pathophysiological relevance.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178726
PMCID: PMC12428950
PMID: 40943644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


15. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 4;26(17):8629. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178629.

Recent Insights into the Creation of Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors for the 
Treatment of Human Diseases.

Yudaev P(1), Aleksandrova Y(1), Neganova M(1).

Author information:
(1)Nesmeyanov Institute of Organoelement Compounds, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Vavilova St., 28, Bld. 1, Moscow 119991, Russia.

This review examines publications over the past two years devoted to histone 
deacetylase inhibitors for the treatment of cancer, diseases of the nervous, 
cardiovascular, digestive, and respiratory systems, and autoimmune diseases. The 
review covers various classes of histone deacetylase inhibitors depending on the 
zinc-binding group, in particular hydroxamic acids, benzamides, hydrazides, 
carboxylic acids, and cyclic peptides. The review pays special attention to the 
mechanisms of development of pathologies involving various isoforms of histone 
deacetylases. The review shows that, for the treatment of cancer, nervous, 
cardiovascular, respiratory systems, and autoimmune diseases, the most promising 
compounds are hydroxamic acids, and for the treatment of diseases of the 
digestive system, they are hydrazides and cyclic peptides. Variation in the 
linker and cap group of hydroxamic acids will allow the creation of an inhibitor 
selective for a specific histone deacetylase isoform. The review may be useful 
for molecular biologists, medical workers, and pharmacologists involved in the 
design of new drugs.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178629
PMCID: PMC12429223
PMID: 40943548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


16. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 3;26(17):8562. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178562.

Apolipoprotein E Alleles and Motor Signs in Older Adults with Alzheimer's 
Dementia.

Liampas I(1), Demiri S(2), Siokas V(1), Tsika A(1), Marogianni C(1), Stamati 
P(1), Nasios G(3), Messinis L(4), Lyketsos CG(5), Dardiotis E(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital of Larissa, School of Medicine, 
University of Thessaly, 41100 Larissa, Greece.
(2)School of Medicine, University of Patras, 26504 Patras, Greece.
(3)Department of Speech and Language Therapy, School of Health Sciences, 
University of Ioannina, 45500 Ioannina, Greece.
(4)Laboratory of Neuropsychology and Behavioural Neuroscience, School of 
Psychology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

We investigated associations between apolipoprotein E (APOE) alleles and motor 
manifestations in Alzheimer's dementia (AD) capitalizing on National Alzheimer's 
Coordinating Center data: the baseline evaluations of older adults (≥60 years) 
with a diagnosis of AD were analyzed. Those with a concomitant diagnosis 
Parkinson's disease or other parkinsonian syndrome, and those treated with 
anti-parkinsonian agents were excluded. Three APOE groups were formed: APOE2 
(APOE2 carriers), APOE3 (APOE3/APOE3) and APOE4 (APOE4/APOE4, APOE4/APOE3). 
UPDRS-III was used to assess the presence or absence of motor signs in 9 
domains. Adjusted binary logistic models featuring the three APOE groups as 
exposures and motor domains as outcomes were estimated. There were 389 
individuals in the APOE2, 1799 in the APOE3 and 2791 in the APOE4 groups. 
Compared to the APOE2 group, individuals in the APOE4 group had lower odds of 
having at least one motor sign [0.64 (0.50-0.82)]. Among motor signs, rigidity 
[0.53 (0.34-0.81)], bradykinesia [0.56 (0.40-0.77)], impaired chair rise [0.54 
(0.37-0.78)] and impaired posture-gait [0.54 (0.36, 0.81)] exhibited significant 
associations. Exploratory analyses featuring APOE genotypes suggested 
dose-response relationships for both APOE2 and APOE4. In conclusion, APOE2 
confers a risk towards motor (mainly parkinsonian) signs in AD. APOE4 may have a 
protective effect.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178562
PMCID: PMC12429426
PMID: 40943487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


17. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 3;26(17):8564. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178564.

The Role of Blood-Based Biomarkers in Transforming Alzheimer's Disease Research 
and Clinical Management: A Review.

Pacoova Dal Maschio V(1), Roveta F(1), Bonino L(1), Boschi S(1), Rainero 
I(1)(2), Rubino E(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience "Rita Levi-Montalcini", University of Turin, 10126 
Turin, Italy.
(2)Center for Cognitive Disorders and Dementias (CDCD), Department of 
Neuroscience and Mental Health, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Città della 
Salute e della Scienza di Torino, 10126 Turin, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative condition 
representing the most common cause of dementia and currently affects millions of 
people worldwide. The clinical presentation includes memory impairment, 
cognitive decline, and neuropsychiatric symptoms, reflecting pathological 
hallmarks such as β-amyloid (Aβ) plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, synaptic 
dysfunction, and neuroinflammation. Despite being the gold standard for 
detecting amyloid and tau pathologies in vivo, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
biomarkers and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging are not widely used in 
the clinical setting because of invasiveness, high costs, and restricted 
accessibility. Recent advances in blood-based biomarkers offer a promising and 
minimally invasive tool for early detection, diagnosis, and monitoring of AD. 
Ultra-sensitive analytical platforms, including single-molecule arrays (Simoa) 
and immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, now enable reliable quantification of 
plasma Aβ isoforms, phosphorylated tau variants (p-Tau181, p-Tau217, p-Tau231), 
neurofilament light chain (NfL) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). In 
addition, blood biomarkers reflecting oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, 
synaptic disruption and metabolic dysfunction are under active investigation. 
This narrative review synthesizes current evidence on blood-based biomarkers in 
AD, emphasizing their biological relevance, diagnostic accuracy, and clinical 
applications. Finally, we highlight forthcoming challenges, such as 
standardization, and future directions, including the use of artificial 
intelligence in precision medicine.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178564
PMCID: PMC12428803
PMID: 40943483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


18. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 3;26(17):8545. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178545.

Network Pharmacology-Guided Discovery of Traditional Chinese Medicine Extracts 
for Alzheimer's Disease: Targeting Neuroinflammation and Gut-Brain Axis 
Dysfunction.

Zhang T(1)(2), Park S(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Ecology of Pamirs Plateau in 
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, College of Life and Geographic Sciences, Kashi 
University, Kashi 844000, China.
(2)Department of Bioconvergence, Hoseo University, Asan 31499, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Department of Food and Nutrition, Obesity/Diabetes Research Center, Hoseo 
University, Asan 31499, Republic of Korea.

Neuroinflammation plays a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), with amyloid-β (Aβ) deposition and neurofibrillary tangles driving 
both central and peripheral inflammatory responses. This study investigated the 
neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects of Vitex trifolia (VT), Plantago 
major (PM), Apocyni Veneti Folium (AVF), and Eucommiae folium (EF) using network 
pharmacology and a co-culture model of PC12 neuronal and Caco-2 intestinal 
epithelial cells. Bioactive compounds were identified via high-performance 
liquid chromatography (HPLC) and screened with network pharmacology analysis, 
yielding 27 for VT, 10 for PM, 6 for AVF, and 3 for EF. Molecular docking 
confirmed strong binding affinities between the key bioactive compounds and 
AD-related targets. A co-culture system of PC12 neuronal and Caco-2 intestinal 
epithelial cells was established to evaluate the effects of VT, PM, AVF, and EF 
extracts (at concentrations of 10 µg/mL, 20 µg/mL, and 50 µg/mL) and donepezil 
hydrochloride (positive-control) on Aβ25-35-induced neurotoxicity and 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced intestinal inflammation, to assess cell 
viability, and effects on oxidative stress, mitochondrial function, and 
inflammatory markers. The VT, PM, AVF, and EF extracts activated 
phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-Akt-glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β) 
signaling, enhanced phosphorylation of AMP kinase, suggesting inhibition of Aβ 
accumulation and tau hyperphosphorylation (p < 0.05). However, donepezil 
hydrochloride only enhanced AMPK phosphorylation. The extracts reduced lipid 
peroxidation and acetylcholinesterase by about 5-fold. JC-1 staining confirmed 
preserved mitochondrial membrane potential, while hematoxylin and eosin staining 
indicated improved intestinal barrier integrity (p < 0.05). PM and AVF reduced 
the number of mast cells (p < 0.05). In conclusion, these findings highlight the 
multi-target potential of VT, PM, AVF, and EF in mitigating both neuronal and 
intestinal inflammation. Their dual regulatory effects on the gut-brain axis 
suggest promising therapeutic applications in AD through the modulation of 
central and peripheral immune responses.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178545
PMCID: PMC12429143
PMID: 40943466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


19. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 2;26(17):8540. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178540.

Orally Administered Zinc Gluconate Induces Tight Junctional Remodeling and 
Reduces Passive Transmucosal Permeability Across Human Intestine in a 
Patient-Based Study.

Del Rio EA(1), Valenzano MC(1), DiGuilio KM(1), Rybakovsky E(1), Kjelstrom S(1), 
Montone G(1), Mercogliano G(2), Newman G(2), Wong P(2), Albert N(2), Burris 
V(3), Szymanski K(3), Rodriguez A(3), Hollis E(3), Kossenkov A(4), Mullin 
JM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Lankenau Institute for Medical Research, 100 Lancaster Avenue, Wynnewood, PA 
19096, USA.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Lankenau Medical Center, Wynnewood, PA 19096, 
USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Lankenau Medical Center, Wynnewood, PA 19096, USA.
(4)The Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

This study focuses on the issue of whether orally administered zinc (gluconate) 
(26 mg BID) can induce the remodeling of gastrointestinal barrier function and 
reduce passive leak across the human intestinal mucosal barrier in situ. 
Increased transmucosal leak has been implicated in diseases as diverse and 
seemingly unconnected as Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), Celiac Disease, 
Autism Spectrum Disorders and Alzheimer's Dementia. Our current investigation 
represents the first patient-based study to examine the effect of zinc on 
gastrointestinal epithelial tight junctions and gastrointestinal barrier leak in 
otherwise healthy test subjects. Using independent test subject groups for each 
endpoint, three separate molecular analyses indicated that zinc treatment can 
achieve a positive outcome: (1) RNA-seq analyses of intestinal biopsies showed 
salutary patterns of gene transcription changes dealing with not only 
transcripts of junctional proteins but also transcripts mitigating the 
proinflammatory state, as well as dedifferentiation (both modulators of tight 
junction permeability); (2) Western immunoblot analyses of intestinal tissue 
indicated that tight junctional protein expression was being modified by the 
administered zinc, most notably Claudin-2 and Tricellulin; (3) zinc treatment 
induced a reduction in serum levels of a functional marker of passive intestinal 
leak, namely the GI microbiome metabolite D-Lactate. The data collectively 
suggest that orally administered zinc can induce remodeling of the intestinal 
epithelial barrier, resulting in the reduction in GI barrier leak. The overall 
safety and economy of supplement levels of zinc suggest that this micronutrient 
could be efficacious as an adjuvant therapy to reduce the condition known as 
leaky gut, and possibly therefore be protective regarding diseases postulated to 
involve leaky gut.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178540
PMCID: PMC12429388
PMID: 40943460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


20. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 1;26(17):8500. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178500.

The Identification of Gyrophoric Acid, a Phytochemical Derived from Lichen, as a 
Potent Inhibitor for Aggregation of Amyloid Beta Peptide: In Silico and 
Biochemical Evaluation.

Yang M(1)(2), Hu H(3), Gao J(1)(2)(4), Lai QWS(1)(2), Eshboev F(1)(5)(6), Leung 
KW(1)(2), Dong TT(1)(2), Xu Q(3), Tsim KWK(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science and Center for Chinese Medicine, The Hong Kong 
University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Edible and Medicinal Bioresources, HKUST Shenzhen 
Research Institute, Shenzhen 518057, China.
(3)Department of Physics, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
Hong Kong SAR, China.
(4)Department of Neurobiology and Cell Biology, Xuzhou Key Laboratory of 
Neurobiology, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou 221004, China.
(5)Institute for Advanced Studies, New Uzbekistan University, Tashkent 100007, 
Uzbekistan.
(6)S.Yu. Yunusov Institute of the Chemistry of Plant Substances, Academy of 
Sciences of Uzbekistan, Tashkent 100170, Uzbekistan.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaque 
accumulation and neurodegeneration. This study identified gyrophoric acid, a 
lichen-derived phenolic metabolite, as a dual-action Aβ42 inhibitor preventing 
aggregation and disassembling of mature Aβ42 fibrils. Integrated in silico 
studies revealed that gyrophoric acid was a strong thermodynamic stabilizer of 
Aβ42 (MM-GBSA: -27.3 kcal/mol) via entropically driven hydrophobic interactions 
and disruption of aggregation-prone conformations (100 ns MD simulations). 
Through biochemical analysis of the fluorescent dye thioflavin T (ThT), 
gyrophoric acid induced rapid Aβ42 fibril disassembly within 5 h, with 
time-lapse confocal microscopy quantitatively confirming the near-complete 
dissolution of large aggregates by 24 h. ADMET profiling revealed favorable 
pharmacokinetics (moderate oral absorption: 48.5-57.3%; low toxicity) and 
Lipinski's rule compliance. These results establish gyrophoric acid as a 
promising natural bioactive compound for anti-AD therapeutics with a unique 
hydrophobic-stabilization mechanism.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178500
PMCID: PMC12428957
PMID: 40943421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


21. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Aug 26;26(17):8280. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178280.

Neuroprotective Potential of Major Alkaloids from Nelumbo nucifera (Lotus): 
Mechanisms and Therapeutic Implications.

Zhao D(1), Ma L(1)(2), Brownlie J(2), Tonissen K(1)(2), Pan Y(3), Feng Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biomedicine and Glycomics, Griffith University, Brisbane 4111, 
Australia.
(2)School of Environment and Science, Griffith University, Brisbane 4111, 
Australia.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, 
China.

Nelumbo nucifera (lotus) has long been used in traditional medicine across Asia, 
and its bioactive alkaloids have recently garnered attention for their 
neuroprotective properties. This review summarizes the current research on the 
mechanisms by which lotus-derived alkaloids, particularly neferine, nuciferine, 
liensinine, and isoliensinine, protect neural tissues. These compounds exhibit a 
wide range of pharmacological activities, including antioxidant and 
anti-inflammatory effects, regulation of calcium signaling and ion channels, 
promotion of neurogenesis, and modulation of key neurotransmitter systems, such 
as dopaminergic, cholinergic, and GABAergic pathways. Notably, they attenuate 
tau hyperphosphorylation, reduce oxidative stress-induced neuronal apoptosis, 
and enhance neurotrophic signaling via BDNF-related pathways. While antioxidant 
and anti-inflammatory actions are the most extensively studied, emerging 
evidence also highlights their roles in autophagy modulation and mitochondrial 
protection. Together, these findings suggest that lotus alkaloids are promising 
candidates for the prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, such 
as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Further investigation is warranted to 
explore the synergistic mechanisms and potential clinical applications of these 
compounds.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178280
PMCID: PMC12428744
PMID: 40943200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


22. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Aug 26;26(17):8270. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178270.

2-Styrylquinolines with Push-Pull Architectures as Sensors for β-Amyloid 
Aggregation with Theranostic Properties.

Piquero M(1), Sarabia-Vallejo Á(1), Bote-Matías L(2), León-Espinosa G(3), 
Hernández-Arasti M(4), Martín-Aragón S(4), Bermejo-Bescós P(4), Olives AI(2), 
López-Alvarado P(1), Martín MA(2), Menéndez JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Química Orgánica y Farmacéutica, Departamento de Química en 
Ciencias Farmacéuticas, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad Complutense, Plaza de 
Ramón y Cajal s/n, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Unidad de Química Analítica, Departamento de Química en Ciencias 
Farmacéuticas, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad Complutense, Plaza de Ramón y 
Cajal s/n, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Departamento de Química y Bioquímica, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad San 
Pablo-CEU, CEU Universities, Urbanización Montepríncipe, Boadilla del Monte, 
28660 Madrid, Spain.
(4)Departamento de Farmacología, Farmacognosia y Botánica, Facultad de Farmacia, 
Universidad Complutense, Plaza de Ramón y Cajal s/n, 28040 Madrid, Spain.

The design and synthesis of a small library of 2-styrylquinoline derivatives 
containing a push-pull system, aimed at displacing their fluorescence emission 
towards the NIR region, is described. We describe here their synthesis, 
fluorescent characterization and pharmacological evaluation against different 
amyloid proteins. Their study showed that these compounds are capable to change 
their spectroscopic properties upon protein interaction, resulting in changes in 
the absorption and emission wavelengths, together with increased fluorescence 
intensity. They also showed sensitivity to pH and environment polarity, 
exhibiting red shifts in lower polarity environments with regard to aqueous 
media. Inner charge transfer is observed and employed for detecting the 
interaction of these compounds with protein aggregates. The study of the 
alterations in the fluorescence intensity allows to calculate the dissociation 
constant values for the protein-sensor interaction. These spectroscopic results 
were the basis for the use of these compounds to visualize β-amyloid plates with 
selectivity over phosphorylated tau in samples of cerebral tissue from deceased 
Alzheimer patients under fluorescence microscopy, using immunofluorescence 
techniques. Pharmacological assays showed that the compounds inhibit the 
aggregation of the Aβ1-42 and AcPHF6 peptides, representing tau protein. They 
also showed neuroprotective activity following okadaic acid insult.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178270
PMCID: PMC12428582
PMID: 40943195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


23. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Aug 26;26(17):8253. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178253.

Navigation Between Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Its Various Pathophysiological 
Trajectories: The Pathogenic Link to Neuroimmunology-Genetics and 
Neuroinflammation.

Bowirrat A(1)(2), Pinhasov A(1), Bowirrat A(3), Badgaiyan R(2).

Author information:
(1)Adelson School of Medicine, Department of Molecular Biology, Ariel 
University, Ariel 40700, Israel.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Texas Tech University Health Science Center, 
Midland, TX 79430, USA.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Hasharon Hospital, Rabin Medical Center, 
Tel Aviv University, Petah-Tikva 40700, Israel.

One hundred and eighteen years have passed since Alzheimer's disease (AD) was 
first diagnosed by Alois Alzheimer as a multifactorial and complex 
neurodegenerative disorder with psychiatric components. It is inaugurated by a 
cascade of events initiating from amnesic-type memory impairment leading to the 
gradual loss of cognitive and executive capacities. Pathologically, there is 
overwhelming evidence that clumps of misfolded amyloid-β (Aβ) and 
hyperphosphorylated tau protein aggregate in the brain. These pathological 
processes lead to neuronal loss, brain atrophy, and gliosis culminating in 
neurodegeneration and fueling AD. Thus, at a basic level, abnormality in the 
brain's protein function is observed, causing disruption in the brain network 
and loss of neural connectivity. Nevertheless, AD is an aging disorder caused by 
a combination of age-related changes and genetic and environmental factors that 
affect the brain over time. Its mysterious pathology seems not to be limited to 
senile plaques (Aβ) and neurofibrillary tangles (tau), but to a plethora of 
substantial and biological processes, which have also emerged in its 
pathogenesis, such as a breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), patients 
carrying the gene variant APOE4, and the immuno-senescence of the immune system. 
Furthermore, type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and metabolic syndrome (MS) have also been 
observed to be early markers that may provoke pathogenic pathways that lead to 
or aggravate AD progression and pathology. There are numerous substantial AD 
features that require more understanding, such as chronic neuroinflammation, 
decreased glucose utilization and energy metabolism, as well as brain insulin 
resistance (IR). Herein, we aim to broaden our understanding and to connect the 
dots of the multiple comorbidities and their cumulative synergistic effects on 
BBB dysfunction and AD pathology. We shed light on the path-physiological 
modifications in the cerebral vasculature that may contribute to AD pathology 
and cognitive decline prior to clinically detectable changes in amyloid-beta 
(Aβ) and tau pathology, diagnostic biomarkers of AD, neuroimmune involvement, 
and the role of APOE4 allele and AD-IR pathogenic link-the shared genetics and 
metabolomic biomarkers between AD and IR disorders. Investment in future 
research brings us closer to knowing the pathogenesis of AD and paves the way to 
building prevention and treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178253
PMCID: PMC12428013
PMID: 40943177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


24. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Aug 24;26(17):8218. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178218.

The Role of miRNAs in the Differential Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease and 
Major Depression: A Bioinformatics-Based Approach.

Öztan G(1), İşsever H(2), İşsever T(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biology, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul 
University, Topkapı, 34093 Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Department of Public Health, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul 
University, Topkapı, 34093 Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Turkish Health Institutes Presidency (TUSEB), 34718 Istanbul, Turkey.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and major depressive disorder (MDD) are prevalent 
central nervous system (CNS) disorders that share overlapping symptoms but 
differ in underlying molecular mechanisms. Distinguishing these mechanisms is 
essential for developing targeted diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. In this 
study, we integrated multi-tissue transcriptomic datasets from brain and 
peripheral samples to identify differentially expressed microRNAs (miRNAs) in AD 
and MDD. Functional enrichment analyses (KEGG, GO) revealed that dysregulated 
miRNAs in AD were associated with MAPK, PI3K-Akt, Ras, and PD-1/PD-L1 signaling, 
pathways linked to synaptic plasticity, neuroinflammation, and immune 
regulation. In contrast, MDD-associated miRNAs showed enrichment in Hippo 
signaling and ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis, implicating altered neurogenesis 
and protein homeostasis. Network analysis highlighted key disease- and 
tissue-specific miRNAs, notably hsa-miR-1202 and hsa-miR-24-3p, with potential 
roles in neuronal survival and molecular network regulation. These findings 
suggest that miRNAs may serve as non-invasive biomarkers for diagnosis, 
prognosis, and treatment monitoring in both disorders. While therapeutic 
targeting of miRNAs offers promise, challenges such as blood-brain barrier 
penetration and tissue-specific delivery remain. This integrative approach 
provides a translational framework for advancing miRNA-based strategies in CNS 
disease research.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178218
PMCID: PMC12428279
PMID: 40943145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


25. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Aug 22;26(17):8155. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178155.

Dynamic Intercellular Networks in the CNS: Mechanisms of Crosstalk from 
Homeostasis to Neurodegeneration.

Zheng Y(1), Huang R(2), Pan J(3).

Author information:
(1)San Domenico Upper School, San Anselmo, CA 94960, USA.
(2)Stanford Graduate School of Education, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.

Intercellular communication in the central nervous system (CNS) is essential for 
maintaining neural function and coordinating responses to injury or disease. 
With recent advances in single-cell and spatial transcriptomics, a growing body 
of research has revealed that this communication is highly dynamic, shifting 
across states of health, aging, demyelination, and neurodegeneration. In this 
review, we synthesize the current findings on intercellular communication 
networks involving neurons, astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes, and other 
glial populations in the CNS across four major states: healthy homeostasis, 
aging, demyelinating diseases, and Alzheimer's disease (AD). We focus on how 
changes in intercellular communication contribute to the maintenance or 
disruption of CNS integrity and function. Mechanistic insights into these 
signaling networks have revealed new molecular targets and pathways that may be 
exploited for therapeutic intervention. By comparing the intercellular signaling 
mechanisms across different disease contexts, we underscore the importance of 
CNS crosstalk not only as a hallmark of disease progression, but also as a 
potential gateway for precision therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178155
PMCID: PMC12428373
PMID: 40943076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


26. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Aug 22;26(17):8134. doi: 10.3390/ijms26178134.

Fully Automated Measurement of GFAP in CSF Using the LUMIPULSE(®) System: 
Implications for Alzheimer's Disease Diagnosis and Staging.

Nojima H(1), Yamamoto M(1), Kamada J(1), Hamanaka T(1), Aoyagi K(1).

Author information:
(1)FUJIREBIO INC., 1-8-1 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0052, Japan.

Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) has been shown to be a reliable biomarker 
for detecting neurological disorders. Recently, we developed the Lumipulse G 
GFAP plasma assay, which is a commercially available tool. Compared to existing 
assays, the LUMIPLSE G platform offers the high-throughput, rapid, and fully 
automated quantification of biomarkers, enabling more standardized and 
accessible clinical study. In this study, we evaluated this assay using 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples. Assessing GFAP in CSF may provide more direct 
insights into central nervous system pathology than plasma and could improve the 
characterization of Alzheimer's disease (AD) stages and support treatment 
monitoring. The LUMIPULSE G system is a chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay 
(CLEIA) platform equipped with full automation, utilizing specialized cartridges 
to process samples within 30 min. The assay, which employs a pair of proprietary 
monoclonal antibodies targeting GFAP, was evaluated for clinical performance 
using 30 CSF samples from patients diagnosed with AD, patients with mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI), and cognitively unimpaired (CU) individuals, with 10 
samples from each group. In addition, levels of β-amyloid 1-40 (Aβ40), β-amyloid 
1-42 (Aβ42), and pTau181 were simultaneously measured. The Lumipulse G GFAP 
assay significantly differentiated (p < 0.05) between the amyloid accumulation 
and non-amyloid accumulation groups, as classified based on the CSF Aβ test. 
Furthermore, GFAP showed a moderate correlation with pTau181 (r = 0.588), as 
determined based on Spearman's rank correlation coefficient. Moreover, receiver 
operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to determine the 
performance of GFAP in distinguishing amyloid-positive and amyloid-negative 
subjects, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.72 (0.50-0.93). When 
stratified by CSF pTau181 positivity, GFAP demonstrated an improved diagnostic 
accuracy, achieving an AUC of 0.86 (95% CI: 0.68-1.00). This study demonstrates 
that the Lumipulse G GFAP assay, when applied to CSF samples, has the potential 
to differentiate AD from non-AD cases, particularly suggesting its utility in 
detecting tau-related pathology. While GFAP has previously been established as a 
biomarker for AD, our findings highlight that combining GFAP with other 
biomarkers such as Aβ40, Aβ42, and pTau181 may enhance the understanding of AD 
pathogenesis, disease staging, and possibly treatment responses. These findings 
suggest that GFAP may serve as a complementary biomarker reflecting astroglial 
reactivity associated with tau positivity, alongside established biomarkers such 
as Aβ40, Aβ42, and pTau181. However, since GFAP levels may also be elevated in 
other neurological disorders beyond AD, further investigation into these 
conditions is required.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26178134
PMCID: PMC12428071
PMID: 40943059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.N., M.Y., J.K., and T.H. are employees of 
FUJIREBIO INC. K.A. is a board member of FUJIREBIO INC. The company financed the 
research presented in this article. The funder had no role in experimental 
design, running experiments, data analysis, data interpretation, or writing of 
the manuscript.


27. Sensors (Basel). 2025 Sep 3;25(17):5476. doi: 10.3390/s25175476.

Innovative Sensor-Based Approaches for Assessing Neurodegenerative Diseases: A 
Brief State-of-the-Art Review.

Mbue ND(1), Tabei F(2), Williams K(3), Olanrewaju K(4).

Author information:
(1)Nelda C. Stark College of Nursing, Texas Woman's University, Houston, TX 
77030, USA.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering/Computer Science, West Texas A & M 
University, Canyon, TX 79016, USA.
(3)Department of Allied Health-Health Information Technology Program, Del Mar 
College, Corpus Christie, TX 78404, USA.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, Prairie View A & M University, Prairie 
View, TX 77446, USA.

Sensor-based approaches are transforming the diagnosis and treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases by offering more sensitive, non-invasive tools and 
are capable of real-time monitoring. Integrating advanced materials, 
nanotechnology, and artificial intelligence presents promise for earlier 
detection, enhanced disease management, and improved patient outcomes. From a 
clinical perspective, these technologies facilitate the shift toward precision 
medicine by enabling early intervention strategies, real-time treatment 
monitoring, and more refined patient stratification in practice and research 
contexts. This review provides an overview of recent advancements in 
sensor-based technologies aimed at enhancing the diagnosis and monitoring of 
neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, among 
others. Sensor-based technologies are adjunct tools and integral components of a 
next-generation framework for diagnosing, monitoring, and understanding 
neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/s25175476
PMCID: PMC12431406
PMID: 40942908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


28. Sensors (Basel). 2025 Aug 23;25(17):5252. doi: 10.3390/s25175252.

Stage-Wise IoT Solutions for Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review of 
Detection, Monitoring, and Assistive Technologies.

Salvi S(1), Garg L(2), Gurupur V(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Decision Support Systems and Informatics, School of Global Health 
Management and Informatics, University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL 32816, 
USA.
(2)Department of Computer Information Systems, Faculty of Information 
Communication Technology, University of Malta, 2080 Msida, Malta.

The Internet of Things (IoT) has emerged as a transformative technology in 
managing Alzheimer's Disease (AD), offering novel solutions for early diagnosis, 
continuous patient monitoring, and assistive care. This review presents a 
comprehensive analysis of IoT-enabled systems tailored to AD care, focusing on 
wearable biosensors, cognitive monitoring tools, smart home automation, and 
Artificial Intelligence (AI)-driven analytics. A systematic literature survey 
was conducted using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and 
Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines to identify, screen, and synthesize 236 
relevant studies primarily published between 2020 and 2025 across IEEE Xplore, 
PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science. The inclusion criteria targeted peer-reviewed 
articles that proposed or evaluated IoT-based solutions for AD detection, 
progression monitoring, or patient assistance. Key findings highlight the 
effectiveness of the IoT in detecting behavioral and cognitive changes, 
enhancing safety through real-time alerts, and improving patient autonomy. The 
review also explores integration challenges such as data privacy, system 
interoperability, and clinical adoption. The study reveals critical gaps in 
real-world deployment, clinical validation, and ethical integration of IoT-based 
systems for Alzheimer's care. This study aims to serve as a definitive reference 
for researchers, clinicians, and developers working at the intersection of the 
IoT and neurodegenerative healthcare.

DOI: 10.3390/s25175252
PMCID: PMC12431156
PMID: 40942682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


29. Molecules. 2025 Aug 27;30(17):3512. doi: 10.3390/molecules30173512.

Targeting Metal Imbalance and Oxidative Stress in Alzheimer's Disease with Novel 
Multifunctional Compounds.

Charissopoulos E(1), Pontiki E(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is considered to be one of the most common types of 
dementia, threatening the health of elderly individuals. Enhancing the brain's 
cholinergic activity is currently the primary therapeutic strategy for treating 
AD patients. Acetylcholine and butyrylcholine are key targets in this approach, 
as they function as neuromodulators within the cerebrum-particularly in its 
various cholinergic regions responsible for essential functions like memory, 
thought, inspiration, and excitement. Oxidative stress and free radicals are 
considered to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of AD and may be key 
factors in its etiology. Additionally, oxidants and oxidative stress-induced 
products can upregulate amyloid precursor protein (APP) expression, promoting Aβ 
aggregation. Another major factor in the pathogenesis of AD is the imbalance of 
metal homeostasis in the brain. Notably, the mammalian brain contains 
significantly higher concentrations of Cu, Zn, and Fe ions compared to other 
tissues. The present review focuses on novel bifunctional metal chelators with 
potential antioxidant activity for the treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30173512
PMCID: PMC12430417
PMID: 40942040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


30. Molecules. 2025 Aug 25;30(17):3489. doi: 10.3390/molecules30173489.

Multifunctional Tacrine-Quinoline Hybrids as Cholinesterase Inhibitors, Aβ 
Aggregation Blockers, and Metal Chelators for Alzheimer's Therapy.

Wang X(1), Ma M(1), Feng Y(1), Liu J(2), Wang G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Synergy Innovation Center of Biological Peptide Antidiabetics of Hubei 
Province, College of Life Science, Wuchang University of Technology, Wuhan 
430223, China.
(2)School of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Wuhan Institute of 
Technology, Wuhan 430025, China.

A novel series of multifunctional tacrine-quinoline hybrids were designed, 
synthesized, and evaluated as potential anti-Alzheimer's agents. These compounds 
incorporate tacrine for cholinesterase's inhibition and 8-hydroxyquinoline for 
metal chelation. Piperazine was selected as a linker to provide conformational 
flexibility and to create favorable cation-π interactions with residues in the 
mid-gorge region of AChE, enhancing dual-site binding with AChE to inhibit Aβ 
aggregation. In vitro studies demonstrated submicromolar inhibitory activity 
toward both AChE and BuChE, particularly for compounds 16e (IC50 = 0.10 μM for 
AChE, 0.043 μM for BuChE) and 16h (IC50 = 0.21 μM for AChE, 0.10 μM for BuChE). 
These compounds also exhibited potent inhibition of self-induced Aβ1-42 
aggregation (16e: 80.5% ± 4.4%, 16h: 93.2% ± 3.9% at 20 μM). Kinetic analyses 
revealed mixed-type inhibition, suggesting dual binding to both CAS and PAS of 
AChE. UV-vis spectrometry confirmed the chelation of Cu2+ and Zn2+ ions by the 
8-hydroxyquinoline moiety. These findings highlight the tacrine-quinoline 
scaffold as a promising platform for the discovery of a multitarget-directed 
anti-AD drug.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30173489
PMCID: PMC12430544
PMID: 40942017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


31. Molecules. 2025 Aug 24;30(17):3479. doi: 10.3390/molecules30173479.

Biologics as Therapeutical Agents Under Perspective Clinical Studies for 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Li H(1), Shen X(1), Zhang B(1), Zhu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Therapeutics and Formulation, School of Pharmacy, The 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterised by cognitive decline, synaptic loss, and multifaceted pathology 
involving amyloid-β (Aβ) aggregation, tau hyperphosphorylation, 
neuroinflammation, and impaired proteostasis. In recent years, biologic 
therapies, such as monoclonal antibodies, vaccines, antisense oligonucleotides 
(ASOs), and gene therapies, have gained prominence as promising 
disease-modifying strategies. In this review, we provide a comprehensive 
synthesis of current biologic approaches under clinical evaluation for AD. 
Drawing on data curated from ClinicalTrials.gov (as of 2025), we systematically 
summarise the molecular targets, therapeutic modalities, mechanisms of action, 
trial phases, and sponsors of over 60 biologic agents. These include Aβ-directed 
antibodies targeting distinct conformers such as protofibrils, 
pyroglutamate-modified species, and soluble oligomers; tau-targeted 
immunotherapies and RNA-based interventions; and emerging platforms focused on 
neuroimmune modulation, peptide hormones, and microbiota-based strategies. Gene 
and RNA therapeutics, particularly ASOs and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) 
delivered intrathecally or via lipid nanoparticles, are also reviewed for their 
potential to modulate intracellular targets with high specificity. We also 
analyse the historical landscape of biologic candidates that failed to reach 
approval, discussing key reasons for trial discontinuation, including lack of 
clinical efficacy, safety concerns (e.g., amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities), or inadequate biomarker responses. These cases offer crucial 
insights for refining future drug design. Looking ahead, we highlight major 
challenges and evolving perspectives in AD biologic therapy: expanding 
therapeutic targets beyond Aβ and tau, overcoming delivery barriers to the 
brain, designing prevention-oriented and genetically stratified trials, and 
navigating regulatory and ethical considerations. Together, these efforts signal 
a paradigm shift in AD drug development, from symptomatic treatment to 
mechanism-based precision biologics. By integrating real-time clinical trial 
data with mechanistic insight, this review aims to inform both translational 
research and therapeutic innovation in AD.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30173479
PMCID: PMC12429904
PMID: 40942007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


32. Plants (Basel). 2025 Sep 6;14(17):2793. doi: 10.3390/plants14172793.

Alkaloid Profile of Fifteen Different Species of Narcissus L. (Amaryllidoideae) 
Collected in Spain.

Rodríguez-Escobar ML(1), Martínez-Francés V(2), Ríos S(3), Feresin GE(4)(5), 
Borges WS(6), Bastida J(1), Torras-Claveria L(1), Tallini LR(1).

Author information:
(1)Departament de Biologia, Sanitat i Medi Ambient, Facultat de Farmàcia i 
Ciències de l'Alimentació, Universitat de Barcelona, Av. Joan XXIII 27-31, 08028 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Biología Aplicada, Area de Botánica, Universidad Miguel 
Hernández, Av. Universidad, s/n, 03202 Elche, Spain.
(3)Estación Biológica Torretes-Jardín Botánico de la UA, Universidad de 
Alicante, Crtra. Sant Vicent del Raspeig, s/n, 03690 Alicante, Spain.
(4)Instituto de Biotecnología, Facultad de Ingeniería, Universidad Nacional de 
San Juan, Av. Libertador General San Martin 1109 Oeste, San Juan 5400, 
Argentina.
(5)Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), CCT 
CONICET, San Juan 5400, Argentina.
(6)Laboratório de Produtos Naturais, Departamento de Química, Universidade 
Federal do Espírito Santo, Vitoria 29075-910, Brazil.

Molecular diversity is a key component of overall biodiversity, playing a vital 
role in evolution. It results from the adaptation of organisms to various 
habitats, which impacts their survival. The Amaryllidoideae subfamily is a 
significant group of monocotyledonous plants known for producing an exclusive 
and still-expanding group of molecules with diverse biological activities. 
Galanthamine (Gal), the most renowned metabolite from Amaryllidoideae subfamily, 
has been marketed for the palliative treatment of Alzheimer's disease since 2001 
due to its ability to inhibit the acetylcholinesterase enzyme. Due to the high 
cost and low yield of its synthesis, pharmaceutical companies extract this drug 
from Amaryllidoideae plants, such as Narcissus pseudonarcissus cv. Carlton in 
Europe and Lycoris radiata in China. The aim of this study was to describe the 
alkaloid profile of fifteen different species of Narcissus L. (commonly known as 
daffodils) collected in Spain using gas chromatography coupled with mass 
spectrometry. Fifty-one alkaloids were identified and quantified within these 
species through our private library of Amaryllidaceae alkaloids (AA) built over 
the last four decades, while thirty structures remained not identified in 
thirteen of these species. The highest concentration of these nitrogenate 
metabolites was quantified in N. confusus, 541 μg Gal·100 mg-1 DW, which also 
exhibited a notably high concentration of Gal, 301 μg Gal·100 mg-1 DW, which 
represents about 55% of the alkaloids identified in this species. The species N. 
bujei was also found to contain a significant quantity of this compound, 
amounting to 103.2 μg Gal·100 mg-1 DW. The plant N. assoanus harbored a total of 
seven unidentified compounds, indicating that this species could be a 
potentially important source of novel alkaloids. In conclusion, this study 
facilitates a direct comparison of alkaloid profiles for fifteen Narcissus plant 
species. This serves as a valuable tool for identifying possible new sources of 
galanthamine, as well as other novel medicinal alkaloids. Finally, this work 
presents the first alkaloid profile of the species N. minor and N. nevadensis.

DOI: 10.3390/plants14172793
PMCID: PMC12430661
PMID: 40941958

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


33. Diagnostics (Basel). 2025 Aug 26;15(17):2158. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics15172158.

Early Detection of Cognitive Decline: Executive Functioning Index R4Alz-pc 
Predicts Memory-Related Concerns in Community Adults.

Emmanouilidou E(1), Moraitou D(1)(2), Frantzi N(1), Poptsi E(2)(3), Tsardoulias 
E(4), Symeonidis AL(4), Papantoniou G(5), Sofologi M(5), Masoura E(1), Tsentidou 
G(1)(2)(3), Katsouri IG(6), Tsolaki M(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Psychology, Department of Cognition, Brain and Behavior, School 
of Psychology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (AUTh), 54124 Thessaloniki, 
Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Center for Interdisciplinary 
Research and Innovation, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (CIRI-AUTh), 54124 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(3)Greek Association of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders (GAADRD), 
Petrou Sindika 13 Str., 54643 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(4)School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, 
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (AUTh), 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(5)Laboratory of Psychology, Department of Early Childhood Education, School of 
Education, University of Ioannina, 45110 Ioannina, Greece.
(6)Department of Occupational Therapy, Faculty of Health and Caring Sciences, 
University of West Attica, 12243 Athens, Greece.

Background/Objectives: Early identification of preclinical Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) is critically important. This study investigates whether early cognitive 
decline in preclinical AD can be detected through the executive functioning 
index R4Alz-pc by predicting memory-related worry and negative affect. Methods: 
A sample of 105 cognitively healthy, community-dwelling older adults (M = 59.25 
years) completed the Multifactorial Memory Questionnaire (MMQ) and the R4Alz-pc 
index battery. Results: Lower performance on the R4Alz-pc index was 
significantly associated with increased negative affect related to memory. 
Mediation analysis indicated that memory-related worry mediated the relationship 
between executive dysfunction and negative affect. Conclusions: This study 
highlights the importance of early, objective cognitive assessment using 
easy-to-administer and non-invasive tools like the R4Alz-pc, enabling timely 
detection and intervention for preclinical AD. Such methods may reduce reliance 
on costly biomarker-based diagnostics.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics15172158
PMCID: PMC12427962
PMID: 40941645

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


34. Diagnostics (Basel). 2025 Aug 23;15(17):2132. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics15172132.

Enhancing Diagnostic Accuracy of Neurological Disorders Through Feature-Driven 
Multi-Class Classification with Machine Learning.

Altıntop ÇG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Erciyes 
University, Kayseri 38280, Türkiye.

Background/Objectives: Neurological disorders (ND) are a global health 
challenge, affecting millions and greatly reducing quality of life. Disorders 
such as Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), schizophrenia, and 
depression often share overlapping symptoms, complicating diagnosis and 
treatment. Early detection is crucial for timely intervention; however, 
traditional diagnostic methods rely on subjective assessments and costly 
imaging, which are not universally accessible. Addressing these challenges, this 
study investigates the classification of multiple ND using 
electroencephalography (EEG) signals. Methods: Various feature extraction 
methods were employed, and the Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator 
(Lasso) algorithm was utilized for effective feature selection. Two-class 
(disease-disease and healthy control-disease), three-class (healthy control and 
two ND, as well as three ND), and four-class (healthy control and three ND) 
classifications were conducted using different machine learning algorithms with 
the selected features. An EEG dataset comprising 40 Alzheimer's patients, 43 
healthy controls, 42 schizophrenia patients, 28 MCI patients, and 28 depression 
patients served as the experimental benchmark. Results: The Linear Discriminant 
Analysis (LDA) classifier achieved the highest accuracy, distinguishing between 
healthy controls and Alzheimer's with 100% accuracy and demonstrating strong 
performance in other comparisons. Multi-class classification reached 84.67% 
accuracy for distinguishing depression, MCI, and schizophrenia, while four-class 
classification achieved 57.89%, highlighting the complexity of differentiating 
among multiple ND. The frequent selection of frontal lobe channels across ND 
indicates their critical role in classification. Conclusions: This study 
contributes to the literature by emphasizing disease-to-disease classification 
over the traditional control-versus-patient framework, highlighting the 
potential for more effective diagnostic tools in clinical settings.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics15172132
PMCID: PMC12427693
PMID: 40941620

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflicts of interest.


35. Foods. 2025 Aug 29;14(17):3059. doi: 10.3390/foods14173059.

Neuroprotective Potential of Broccoli Sprout Extract in Scopolamine-Induced 
Memory-Impaired Mice.

Jeong H(1), Choi H(2), Park YS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology, Gachon University, Seongnam 
13120, Republic of Korea.
(2)BK bio, Jeju 63359, Republic of Korea.

Alzheimer's disease is characterized by progressive cognitive decline associated 
with oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and impaired neurotrophic signaling. 
Sulforaphane, a bioactive compound found in broccoli, has demonstrated 
neuroprotective effects by activating NRF2 and inhibiting NF-κB. However, the 
efficacy of whole-food-derived sulforaphane remains unclear. This study 
evaluated the neuroprotective potential of broccoli sprout extract using a 
scopolamine-induced mouse model of memory impairment. Mice were orally 
administered broccoli sprout extract once daily at doses of 100 mg/kg or 200 
mg/kg for four weeks prior to behavioral and biochemical assessments. Treatment 
with broccoli sprout extract significantly improved scopolamine-induced deficits 
in long-term memory, as determined by the passive avoidance test. The spatial 
working memory remained unaffected. High doses of broccoli sprout extract 
restored hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels and reduced 
cortical lipid peroxidation, suggesting antioxidant and neurotrophic benefits. 
Additionally, the low dose preserved striatal choline acetyltransferase 
expression and reduced systemic tumor necrosis factor-alpha and hippocampal 
cyclooxygenase-2 levels, indicating its anti-inflammatory and cholinergic 
protective effects. No significant changes in acetylcholinesterase activity or 
glutathione levels were observed. Overall, these results imply that broccoli 
sprout extract has multi-targeted neuroprotective effects, possibly involving 
redox and inflammatory regulation. Therefore, it may be a safe dietary strategy 
to support cognition in neurodegenerative conditions.

DOI: 10.3390/foods14173059
PMCID: PMC12427749
PMID: 40941175

Conflict of interest statement: Author Hyukjoon Choi was employed by the company 
BK bio. His specific contributions were stated in the manuscript. The role of 
the company was to provide raw materials. The remaining authors declare that the 
research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


36. Cells. 2025 Sep 5;14(17):1387. doi: 10.3390/cells14171387.

TREM2 in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Mechanisms and Therapeutic Potential.

Li L(1), Zheng X(1), Ma H(1), Zhu M(1), Li X(1), Sun X(2)(3), Feng X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital, School of 
Clinical Medicine, Tsinghua Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 102218, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of New Ceramics and Fine Processing, School of Materials 
Science and Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Advanced Materials of Ministry of Education of China, 
School of Materials Science and Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 
100084, China.

Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), represent significant 
global health challenges, affecting millions and straining healthcare systems. 
These disorders involve progressive neuronal loss and cognitive decline, with 
incompletely elucidated underlying mechanisms. Chronic neuroinflammation is 
increasingly recognized as a critical contributor to disease progression. The 
brain's resident immune cells, microglia, are central to this inflammatory 
response. When overactivated, microglia and other immune cells, such as 
peripheral macrophages, can exacerbate inflammation and accelerate disease 
development. Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid Cells 2 (TREM2) is a 
transmembrane receptor of the immunoglobulin superfamily that demonstrates high 
expression on microglia in the central nervous system. TREM2 serves a vital role 
in regulating phagocytosis, synaptic pruning, and energy metabolism. This review 
examines the functions of TREM2 in neurodegenerative diseases and its potential 
as a therapeutic target, aiming to inform future treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/cells14171387
PMCID: PMC12428023
PMID: 40940798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


37. Cells. 2025 Aug 30;14(17):1356. doi: 10.3390/cells14171356.

Neuronal Death and Biomolecular Condensates: Are There Any New Treatment Options 
for Alzheimer's Disease?

Kochman U(1), Sitka H(1), Kuźniar J(1), Czaja M(1), Kozubek P(1), Beszłej JA(2), 
Leszek J(2).

Author information:
(1)Student Scientific Group of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Wroclaw Medical 
University, 50-367 Wroclaw, Poland.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Wroclaw Medical University, 
50-367 Wroclaw, Poland.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is marked by the pathological aggregation of amyloid β 
(Aβ) and tau proteins. Emerging research reveals that these proteins undergo 
liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS), forming biomolecular condensates that 
promote aggregation and neurotoxicity. These phase-separated structures reshape 
the intracellular environment, facilitating protein misfolding and spreading. 
This review highlights recent advances in understanding the role of condensates 
in AD pathogenesis and explores novel therapeutic strategies targeting 
condensate dynamics. Promising approaches include small molecules that disrupt 
LLPS, epigenetic drugs influencing nuclear condensates, and compounds like DDL 
920 and RI AG03 that modulate tau phase separation and neuroinflammation, 
respectively. Additionally, anti-inflammatory agents, such as nucleotide reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), offer potential for upstream intervention. 
Targeting biomolecular condensates presents a next-generation strategy for AD 
treatment. Future research should focus on in vivo profiling of condensate 
composition, biomarker development, and the development of patient-specific 
therapies to enable early, disease-modifying interventions.

DOI: 10.3390/cells14171356
PMCID: PMC12428286
PMID: 40940766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


38. Cells. 2025 Aug 29;14(17):1342. doi: 10.3390/cells14171342.

Beyond Support Cells: Astrocytic Autophagy as a Central Regulator of CNS 
Homeostasis and Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Lee JH(1), Chang W(2), Min SS(2), Song DY(3), Yoo HI(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Eulji University School of Medicine, Daejeon 
34824, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Eulji University School of Medicine, 
Daejeon 34824, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, Eulji University School of Medicine, 
Daejeon 34824, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkin University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Autophagy is a fundamental catabolic pathway critical for maintaining cellular 
homeostasis in the central nervous system (CNS). While neuronal autophagy has 
been extensively studied, growing evidence highlights the crucial roles of 
astrocytic autophagy in CNS physiology and pathology. Astrocytes regulate 
metabolic support, redox balance, and neuroinflammatory responses. These 
functions are closely linked to autophagic activity. The disruption of 
astrocytic autophagy contributes to synaptic dysfunction, chronic inflammation, 
myelin impairment, and blood-brain barrier instability. Dysregulation of 
astrocytic autophagy has been implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple 
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This review summarizes 
the molecular mechanisms of autophagy in astrocytes and delineates its role in 
intercellular communication with neurons, microglia, oligodendrocytes, and 
endothelial cells. Furthermore, we will discuss current pharmacological 
approaches targeting astrocytic autophagy, with particular attention to 
repurposed agents such as rapamycin, lithium, and caloric restriction mimetics. 
Although promising in preclinical models, therapeutic translation is challenged 
by the complexity of autophagy's dual roles and cell-type specificity. A deeper 
understanding of astrocytic autophagy and its crosstalk with other CNS cell 
types may facilitate the development of targeted interventions for 
neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/cells14171342
PMCID: PMC12428568
PMID: 40940752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


39. Cells. 2025 Aug 29;14(17):1338. doi: 10.3390/cells14171338.

HDACs in the Brain: From Chromatin Remodeling to Neurodegenerative Disease.

Diniz LP(1), Pinheiro PSM(2), Franco LS(2), Gomes FCA(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Investigação Metabólica Associada ao Envelhecimento, Instituto 
de Ciências Biomédicas, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro 
21941-902, RJ, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Avaliação e Síntese de Substâncias Bioativas (LASSBio), 
Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro 21941-902, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Neurobiologia Celular, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, 
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro 21941-902, RJ, Brazil.

Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are key epigenetic regulators that influence 
chromatin remodeling, gene expression, and cellular plasticity in the central 
nervous system (CNS). This review provides a comprehensive overview of the 
classification and functional diversity of HDACs, with particular emphasis on 
their roles in neural progenitor cells, mature neurons, and glial populations. 
In neural stem and progenitor cells, HDACs modulate neurogenesis, fate 
specification, and lineage commitment. In differentiated neurons, HDACs govern 
synaptic plasticity, memory formation, and survival. In glial cells, including 
astrocytes and microglia, HDACs orchestrate inflammatory responses, redox 
balance, and metabolic adaptations. We further examine the dysregulation of HDAC 
expression and activity in major neurodegenerative diseases, including 
Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Evidence from human post-mortem 
brain studies reveals region- and isoform-specific alterations in HDAC 
expression, which are closely associated with cognitive decline, mitochondrial 
dysfunction, and neuroinflammation. Preclinical studies support the use of HDAC 
inhibitors (HDACi) as neuroprotective agents, capable of restoring acetylation 
homeostasis, reducing neuroinflammation, and improving neuronal function. Given 
the relevance of HDACi, we summarize current clinical studies assessing the 
safety of these compounds in the context of tumor biology, as well as their 
potential future applications in neurodegenerative diseases. Together, this 
review underscores the dual significance of HDACs as biomarkers and therapeutic 
targets in the context of CNS disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/cells14171338
PMCID: PMC12428036
PMID: 40940748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


40. Am J Alzheimers Dis Other Demen. 2025 Jan-Dec;40:15333175251375378. doi: 
10.1177/15333175251375378. Epub 2025 Sep 12.

A Real-World Analysis of the Clinical Journey, Diagnosis, and Monitoring 
Patterns of Patients With Alzheimer Disease by Stage in the United States.

Fazio-Eynullayeva E(1), Mystkowski P(1), Lv L(1), Aly A(1), Cotton S(2), Grant 
N(2), Johnson W(2), Mattke S(3).

Author information:
(1)Novo Nordisk Inc., Plainsboro, NJ, USA.
(2)Adelphi Real World, Bollington, UK.
(3)University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

This study aimed to describe the clinical journey of patients with different 
stages of Alzheimer disease (AD). This was a cross-sectional survey of US 
primary care physicians (PCPs)/specialists and patients using the Adelphi Real 
World AD Disease Specific Programme™ (December 2022 - September 2023). Patients 
were stratified by disease severity and data are presented as the mean (SD) or 
frequencies/percentages. In the overall sample (N = 990), mean time from symptom 
onset to first evaluation was 31.4 (40.6) weeks and mean time from evaluation to 
diagnosis was 14.2 (29.0) weeks (mild cognitive impairment due to AD, 12.0 
[22.7] weeks; mild AD dementia, 15.7 [31.6] weeks; moderate AD dementia, 14.0 
[29.9] weeks; severe AD dementia, 5.1 [9.6] weeks). 74.5% of the overall sample 
was initially evaluated by their PCP and 13.8% by a neurologist. Patients with 
AD experience many barriers during the diagnostic journey; however, PCPs and 
neurologists play key roles in early diagnosis.

Plain Language Summary: Alzheimer disease (AD) is a main cause of dementia in 
older adults. Early diagnosis of AD is key, as it increases opportunities for 
treatment that may slow cognitive decline. However, underdiagnosis and 
diagnostic delays are common, particularly in the early stages of the disease. 
This study aimed to describe the clinical journey of patients with different 
stages of AD and to describe the diagnostic and monitoring tests used in these 
patients. This study also aimed to evaluate the role of primary care physicians 
(PCPs) and specialists in the diagnostic process. This study used survey data 
from the Adelphi Real World AD Disease Specific Programme™ between December 2022 
and September 2023. The survey included data from US PCPs and specialists and 
their patients. Patient data was separated by disease severity into 4 
categories: mild cognitive impairment due to AD (MCI due to AD), mild AD 
dementia (MAD), moderate AD dementia (MoAD), and severe AD dementia (SevAD). In 
the overall sample (N = 990), the average time from the beginning of symptoms to 
the first doctor’s appointment was 31.4 weeks, and the average time from the 
first doctor’s appointment to diagnosis was 14.2 weeks. The average time from 
the first doctor’s appointment to diagnosis was 12.0 weeks for patients with MCI 
due to AD, 15.7 weeks for MAD, 14.0 weeks for MoAD, and 5.1 weeks for SevAD. In 
the overall sample, 74.5% of patients were first evaluated by their PCP and 
13.8% were first evaluated by a neurologist. Blood tests for AD-specific 
biomarkers were used to diagnose 9.0% of patients. This study found that PCPs 
and neurologists play an important role in diagnosing AD during early disease 
stages and that biomarker tests were not frequently used during diagnosis. In 
sum, patients with AD experience many barriers that may prevent quick diagnosis 
and potential treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/15333175251375378
PMCID: PMC12432325
PMID: 40940699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: EFE, PM, LL, and AA 
are employed by and hold stocks in Novo Nordisk. SC, NG, and WJ are employees of 
Adelphi Real World. SM serves on the board of directors for Senscio Systems; 
serves on scientific advisory boards for ALZpath and Boston Millennia Partners; 
and has received consulting and/or speaker fees from Biogen, C2N Diagnostics, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, and Genentech/Roche.


41. Expert Rev Clin Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 22:1-16. doi:
10.1080/17512433.2025.2556122.  Online ahead of print.

Review of anti-amyloid-beta (Aβ) monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Francis E(1), Paylor S(1), Van C(1)(2), Mathews B(2), Sobhanian MJ(3), Mansour 
DZ(1), Hennawi G(2), Brandt NJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Peter Lamy Center on Drug Therapy and Aging, University of Maryland Baltimore 
School of Pharmacy, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)MedStar Center for Successful Aging, Good Samaritan Hospital, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, University of Maryland Medical Center, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains a major public health challenge, 
with growing prevalence and limited treatment options that modify disease 
progression. Recent advances have led to the development and approval of 
Anti-amyloid-β (Aβ) monoclonal antibodies, which represent a paradigm shift from 
symptomatic management to targeted disease modification.
AREAS CCOVERED: Agents such as lecanemab and donanemab selectively bind 
aggregated forms of Aβ and have demonstrated modest but statistically 
significant slowing of cognitive and functional decline in early AD. However, 
these therapies are associated with amyloid-related imaging abnormalities 
(ARIA), particularly in individuals carrying the APOE ε4 allele, necessitating 
close monitoring and individualized risk assessment. Implementation challenges, 
including high treatment burden, cost, and real-world applicability, have 
limited broad clinical adoption. This review examines the mechanistic 
differences, clinical trial outcomes, and safety considerations of Aβ monoclonal 
antibodies, while also highlighting emerging therapies and the need for 
inclusive, precision-guided approaches.
EXPERT OPINION: As research continues to evolve, balancing clinical benefits 
with safety and accessibility will be critical in defining the role of 
anti-amyloid-β therapies within the broader landscape of AD care.

DOI: 10.1080/17512433.2025.2556122
PMID: 40940304


42. Neurotherapeutics. 2025 Sep 11:e00739. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00739.
Online  ahead of print.

Targeted ErbB4 receptor activation ameliorates neuronal deficits via DOCK3 
signaling in a transgenic mouse AD model.

Liu C(1), Zhao Y(2), Dao JJ(1), Zhang W(3), Liu J(4), Ma YK(5), Qiao CM(6), Cui 
C(6), Chen SX(7), Shen YQ(6), Zhao WJ(8).

Author information:
(1)MOE Medical Basic Research Innovation Center for Gut Microbiota and Chronic 
Diseases, Department of Cell Biology, Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China.
(2)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Experimental Center for Medical Research, 
Neurologic Disorders and Regeneration Repair Lab of Shandong Higher Education, 
Shandong Second Medical University, Weifang, Shandong, China.
(3)MOE Medical Basic Research Innovation Center for Gut Microbiota and Chronic 
Diseases, Department of Cell Biology, Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China; Department of Pathogen Biology, Guizhou 
Nursing Vocational College, Guiyang, Guizhou, China.
(4)Department of Hematology, Women and Children's Hospital, Qingdao University, 
Qingdao, Shandong, China.
(5)Rehabilitation Therapy, Medical School, Weifang University of Science and 
Technology, Weifang, Shandong, China.
(6)MOE Medical Basic Research Innovation Center for Gut Microbiota and Chronic 
Diseases, Department of Neurodegeneration and Neuroinjury, Wuxi School of 
Medicine, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China.
(7)The First Affiliated Hospital, Department of Neurology, Multi-Omics Research 
Center for Brain Disorders, Hengyang Medical School, University of South China, 
Hengyang, Hunan, China.
(8)MOE Medical Basic Research Innovation Center for Gut Microbiota and Chronic 
Diseases, Department of Cell Biology, Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: 
weijiangzhao@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Accumulating evidence has highlighted the critical involvement of ErbB4 receptor 
in the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Utilizing a small 
molecule ErbB4 receptor agonist (E4A) identified through virtual screening, it 
was observed that activation of ErbB4 receptor significantly ameliorated the 
cognitive behavioral deficits in APP/PS1 mice. Additionally, E4A treatment 
enhanced the expression of DOCK3 and SIRT3, leading to improvements in synaptic 
and mitochondrial dysfunction within the hippocampus of these mice. E4A also 
attenuated the activation of the TLR4-NF-κB-NLRP3 pathway, thereby reducing 
neuroinflammation and the formation of β-amyloid (Aβ) plaques. In vitro studies 
revealed that E4A partially mitigated the impact of hippocampal neuronal damage 
on microglial inflammation, which was partly compromised by the silencing of 
DOCK3. Collectively, our data suggest that targeted activation of ErbB4 receptor 
may treat AD via DOCK3 signaling by inhibiting neuronal damage and subsequent 
neuroinflammation, thereby offering a viable strategy for this neurodegenerative 
disease.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00739
PMID: 40940223

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


43. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2025 Sep 7;140:108020. doi: 
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.108020. Online ahead of print.

Safety, tolerability and potential biomarkers of vodobatinib in patients with 
dementia with Lewy bodies.

Pagan FL(1), Torres-Yaghi Y(1), Hebron ML(2), Wilmarth B(1), Liu X(2), Ahn J(3), 
Moussa C(4).

Author information:
(1)Translational Neurotherapeutics Program, Laboratory for Dementia and 
Parkinsonism, Department of Neurology, Lewy Body Dementia Association Research 
Center of Excellence, Georgetown University Medical Center, Building D, Room 
265, 4000 Reservoir Rd, NW, Washington DC, 20057, USA; MedStar Georgetown 
University Hospital, Movement Disorders Clinic, Department of Neurology, PHC 7, 
3300 Reservoir Rd, NW, Washington DC, 20057, USA.
(2)Translational Neurotherapeutics Program, Laboratory for Dementia and 
Parkinsonism, Department of Neurology, Lewy Body Dementia Association Research 
Center of Excellence, Georgetown University Medical Center, Building D, Room 
265, 4000 Reservoir Rd, NW, Washington DC, 20057, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Bioinformatics and Biomathematics, Georgetown 
University Medical Center, Basic Science Building, 3800 Reservoir Rd, NW, 
Washington DC, 20057, USA.
(4)Translational Neurotherapeutics Program, Laboratory for Dementia and 
Parkinsonism, Department of Neurology, Lewy Body Dementia Association Research 
Center of Excellence, Georgetown University Medical Center, Building D, Room 
265, 4000 Reservoir Rd, NW, Washington DC, 20057, USA. Electronic address: 
cem46@georgetown.ed.

INTRODUCTION: Activation of the tyrosine kinase Abelson (Abl) was suggested in 
the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. We investigated the effects of a 
potent and highly specific Abl kinase inhibitor vodobatinib (K0706) in patients 
diagnosed with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We determined safety, 
tolerability and potential biomarkers following oral administration of 
vodobatinib versus placebo in DLB patients.
METHODS: Participants were randomized 1:1:1 into vodobatinib 192 mg, or 384 mg 
or matching placebo in a single-center, double-blind study. Study drug was taken 
orally once daily for 3 months followed by one-month wash-out.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine individuals were enrolled, 3 were women (10.3 %), age 
76.3 ± 6 years (mean ± SD). Vodobatinib was safe and well-tolerated and more 
adverse events were noted in the placebo (56) vs vodobatinib 192 mg (19) or 
384 mg (6) groups. The number of falls were reduced in the vodobatinib 192 mg 
(6) and 384 mg (0) compared to placebo (28) groups. The only potential 
significant change in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers was Aβ42/Aβ40 in 
192 mg vodobatinib (p = 0.0002) and 384 mg (0.0121) compared to placebo. There 
was no change in homovanillic acid, a biomarker of dopamine level, or other 
potential CSF and plasma biomarkers of DLB. Exploratory clinical outcomes were 
not different between baseline and 3 months in vodobatinib compared to placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: Vodobatinib appears to be safe and tolerated, but larger trials and 
longer treatment periods are needed to determine its effects on biomarkers and 
clinical outcomes.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.108020
PMID: 40939527

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Charbel Moussa 
consulted with Sun Pharmaceuticals Advanced Research Corporation (SPARC). All 
other authors declare no conflict with this manuscript.


44. Neurology. 2025 Oct;105(7):e213950. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213950. Epub
2025  Sep 12.

Visual Classification of Tau-PET Detects 4 Subtypes With Different Long-Term 
Outcomes.

Boccalini C(1), Mathoux G(2), Hristovska I(3), Ribaldi F(4)(5), Peretti DE(1), 
Arnone A(1), Scheffler M(6), Frisoni GB(4)(5), Hansson O(3), Vogel JW(7), 
Garibotto V(1)(2)(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers (NIMTlab), Geneva 
University Neurocenter and Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(2)Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Geneva University 
Hospitals, Switzerland.
(3)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Faculty 
of Medicine, Lund University, Sweden.
(4)Geneva Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, Geneva, 
University Hospitals, Switzerland.
(5)Laboratory of Neuroimaging of Aging (LANVIE), University of Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(6)Division of Radiology, Geneva University Hospitals, Switzerland.
(7)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Faculty of Medicine, SciLifeLab, Lund 
University, Sweden; and.
(8)CIBM Center for Biomedical Imaging, Geneva, Switzerland.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000214188.

Comment in
    Neurology. 105:e214188.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Tau accumulation pattern shows substantial 
variability in Alzheimer disease (AD), and 4 distinct spatiotemporal 
trajectories were distinguished using a data-driven approach called the Subtype 
and Stage Inference (SuStaIn). A visual method to validate and identify these 
subtypes is a requirement for their clinical translation. Our study aimed to 
provide a standardized topographic method for identifying tau patterns visually 
using tau-PET in a clinical setting.
METHODS: Participants in this prospective study were included from the memory 
clinic of Geneva University Hospital. Inclusion criteria required participants 
to have undergone at least 1 18F-Flortaucipir tau-PET scan and a Mini-Mental 
State Examination (MMSE) within a 1-year time frame. All scans were classified 
into different tau subtypes (limbic [S1], medial temporal lobe-sparing [S2], 
posterior [S3], and lateral temporal [S4]) using both visual rating and SuStain 
algorithm. A subgroup underwent amyloid-PET and clinical follow-up. Cohen's κ 
tested the agreement between raters and between visual and automated subtypes. 
Chi-squared and Kruskal-Wallis tests assessed differences in clinical and 
biomarker features between subtypes, whereas differences in cognitive 
trajectories were tested using linear mixed-effects models, controlling for age, 
sex, and clinical and tau stages.
RESULTS: A total of 245 tau-PET scans of individuals ranging from cognitively 
unimpaired to mild dementia (mean age: 68.25 years, 52% women) were included and 
classified into different tau pattern subtypes. A substantial agreement between 
raters was found in visually interpreting tau subtypes (κ > 0.65, p < 0.001) and 
a fair agreement between visual and automated subtypes (κ = 0.39, p < 0.001), 
with the automated approach more likely to classify a scan as tau negative and 
lower agreement between methods in more severe cases and AD clinical variants. 
Regarding the visual classification, individuals with S2 subtype were younger 
than S1 and S3, had lower MMSE and verbal fluency scores than S4 and S1, showed 
higher global tau burden than other subtypes, and a steeper cognitive decline.
DISCUSSION: Visual classification reliably identified 4 tau patterns that differ 
in global tau load, clinical features, and long-term outcomes, suggesting its 
clinical usefulness for the detection of higher-risk AD variants. A clinically 
implementable classification of subtypes with faster decline is paramount for 
personalized diagnosis, accurate prognosis, and treatment.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213950
PMCID: PMC12439490
PMID: 40939126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: V. Garibotto received research support and 
speaker fees through her institution from GE Healthcare, Siemens Healthineers, 
and Novo Nordisk. G.B. Frisoni has received support, payment, consulting fees, 
or honoraria through his institution for lectures, presentations, speaker 
bureaus, manuscript writing, or education events from: Biogen, Roche, Diadem, 
Novo Nordisk, GE Healthcare, OM Pharma, and Eisai. O. Hansson has acquired 
research support (for the institution) from ADx, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, 
Biogen, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Fujirebio, GE Healthcare, Pfizer, and Roche; and in 
the past 2 years, he has received consultancy/speaker fees from AC Immune, 
Amylyx, Alzpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Cerveau, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, 
Genentech, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi, and Siemens. The other 
authors report no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. Go to Neurology.org/N 
for full disclosures.


45. Photobiomodul Photomed Laser Surg. 2025 Sep;43(9):411-416. doi: 
10.1177/15578550251369575.

The Efficacy and Safety of Transcranial Photobiomodulation for Mild Cognitive 
Impairment Due to Alzheimer's Disease: A Randomized, Double-Blind, 
Sham-Controlled Study.

Chun H(1), Yoon ML(1), Lee HW(2), Lee JY(1), Hong SB(3), Ha SS(4), Yoon KJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trials Center, Gangnam St. Peter's General Hospital, Seoul, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Gangnam St. Peter's General Hospital, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Gangnam St. Peter's General Hospital, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Gangnam St. Peter's General Hospital, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.

Background: Transcranial photobiomodulation (tPBM) is a promising noninvasive 
neuromodulation modality with potential therapeutic benefits for 
neurodegenerative diseases. Infrared light delivered by a tPBM device penetrates 
the cortex, stimulating neuronal activity by increasing mitochondrial adenosine 
triphosphate production and enhancing regional cerebral blood flow. Objective: 
This study investigated the efficacy and safety of a self-administered, at-home, 
wearable tPBM device for improving cognitive function in individuals with mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Methods: Individuals 
with MCI due to AD, diagnosed according to the National Institute on Aging and 
Alzheimer's Association criteria, with a Korean version of Mini-Mental State 
Examination-2 (K-MMSE2) score of 23-27 and a global Clinical Dementia Rating 
(CDR) score of 0.5-1.0 were enrolled. Subjects self-administered tPBM six times 
per week for 12 weeks. Assessments were conducted at weeks 7 and 13 using the 
Korean version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (K-MoCA), K-MMSE2, the 
Korean version of the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's 
Disease, and the Geriatric Depression Scale. Results: A total of 26 participants 
were enrolled. The treatment group showed a statistically significant 
improvement in K-MoCA scores at week 13 (p < 0.05) compared with the sham group. 
Although K-MMSE2 scores improved in the treatment group, the difference was not 
statistically significant. No serious adverse events were reported. Conclusion: 
Findings suggest that tPBM is an effective and safe home-use intervention for 
individuals with MCI, with promising therapeutic and preventative roles in 
Alzheimer's dementia.

DOI: 10.1177/15578550251369575
PMID: 40939031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep 12:13872877251377654. doi:
10.1177/13872877251377654.  Online ahead of print.

Efficacy of acupuncture in ameliorating sleep disorders in patients with 
dementia: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Gan L(1), Li J(1), Deng C(1), Liu D(1), Lin H(2), Zou H(3), Tang C(1), Wu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)South China Research Center for Acupuncture and Moxibustion, Medical College 
of Acu-Moxi and Rehabilitation, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, 
Guangzhou, China.
(2)Monash Neuromodulation Research Unit, Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of 
Medicine, Nursing and Health Science, School of Primary and Allied Health Care, 
Monash University, Frankston, VIC, Australia.
(3)Foshan Clinical Medical School of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, 
Chancheng District, Foshan, Guangdong, China.

BackgroundWhile cognitive function has been extensively researched in dementia 
patients, studies focusing on their sleep disorders remain limited. Evidence 
suggests acupuncture may improve sleep quality in this population, but robust 
clinical data are still lacking.ObjectiveTo evaluate acupuncture's efficacy for 
sleep disorders in dementia patients via meta-analysis.MethodsWe systematically 
searched eight databases for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated 
the efficacy of acupuncture for sleep disorders in patients with dementia. 
Primary outcomes were the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and Efficiency 
Rate; as a secondary outcome, cognitive function was evaluated with the 
Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Risk of bias was assessed using Cochrane 
RoB 2.0, and the certainty of evidence was graded via GRADE.ResultsAnalysis of 
10 RCTs (n = 721) found acupuncture was associated with improved outcomes, 
showing higher Efficiency Rate (OR = 4.09, 95%CI [2.52,6.64]), reduced 
PSQI-Total Point (MD = -5.07, 95%CI [-6.47,-3.66]) with enhanced stability when 
combined with routine drug therapy (RDT), and improved MMSE scores (MD = 5.41, 
95%CI [3.12,7.69]) with greater stability when acupuncture was combined with 
traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) related treatments. However, the certainty of 
evidence was limited due to heterogeneity and methodological constraints 
(moderate for Efficiency Rate, low for PSQI-Total Point and 
MMSE).ConclusionsAcupuncture shows potential for improving sleep disorders and 
cognitive function in dementia patients, particularly in combination with RDT or 
TCM-related treatments. However, due to the low quality of included RCTs, 
further large-scale, rigorous trials are needed.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251377654
PMID: 40938779


47. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep 12:13872877251372956. doi:
10.1177/13872877251372956.  Online ahead of print.

Stakeholder priorities for medication management information resources for 
people with dementia and carers: An exploratory study.

Watson K(1), Cross AJ(2), Jokanovic N(3), Wesson J(1), Lo J(1), Jeon YH(1), 
Schneider CR(1), Sawan MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(2)Centre for Medicine Use and Safety, Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Monash University, Parkville, VIC, Australia.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Alfred Health and School of Translational 
Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

BackgroundPeople with dementia and their carers have significant unmet 
information needs regarding medication management, placing them at higher risk 
of hospitalization due to medication-related harm and is often avoidable. There 
are currently no co-designed information resources to guide people with 
Alzheimer's disease and other dementia in medication management across care 
settings.ObjectiveTo identify information priorities for inclusion in medication 
management resources for people with dementia and their informal carers in 
community and aged care settings.MethodsUsing community-based participatory 
research, four focus groups and four interviews were conducted with twenty-two 
stakeholders: people with dementia (n = 2), carers (n = 3), healthcare 
professionals (n = 8), and advocates and professional organization 
representatives (n = 9). Transcripts were examined using content analysis to 
identify common issues and categories for information priorities.ResultsFour 
priority areas were identified for inclusion in a medication management 
information resource: 1) question prompts to facilitate partnership between the 
individual, their carer and health professional, 2) informed consent and active 
participation in shared decision-making for prescribed medications 3) additional 
information on the benefits and risks of common medications, and 4) exploring 
solutions to address medication challenges that support adherence, progressive 
changes in behavior, transitions in care, and cultural 
considerations.ConclusionsPriorities for an information resource for medication 
management identified in our study will inform new co-designed resources for 
improving the quality and clarity of information provided to people with 
dementia and their informal carers.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251372956
PMID: 40938658


48. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep 12:13872877251372958. doi:
10.1177/13872877251372958.  Online ahead of print.

Cognitive performance and blood biomarkers: Insights into their relationship and 
predicting high Amyloid Probability Score in cognitively impaired older adults.

Tho Chu TQ(1), Morimoto K(2)(3), Kowa H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cognitive and Psychiatric Rehabilitation, Department of 
Rehabilitation Science, Kobe University Graduate School of Health Sciences, 
Suma-ku, Kobe, Japan.
(2)Division of Neurology, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, Chuo-ku, 
Kobe, Japan.
(3)Division of Integrated Analyses of Bioresource and Health Care, Kobe 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Japan.

BackgroundUnderstanding associations between cognitive performance and blood 
biomarkers supports diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD); 
however, this relationship remains unclear.ObjectiveExploring associations 
between the Amyloid Probability Score (APS; PrecivityAD® blood test) and 
cognitive performance, and between Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and 
Cogstate Brief Battery (CBB) in cognitively impaired older adults.MethodsOlder 
adults aged ≥ 60 years with MMSE from 10 to 27, recruited from a cohort in 
Japan, were assessed with the CBB, and plasma biomarkers to calculate APS. We 
used Spearman correlation to explore relationships; receiver operating curves 
and cross-validation to identify the best model for predicting high 
APS.ResultsAmong 46 participants (mean age = 78.3 ± 5.9; mean 
MMSE = 20.3 ± 4.6), 39.1% did not complete at least one test in the CBB. Lower 
MMSE were observed in those who were non-completers. MMSE correlated with 
Detection (Psychomotor function), Identification (Attention), and their 
composite (r = 0.34-0.52; p < 0.05; 95%CI excluding null value). Higher APS was 
seen in those who did not complete the One Card Learning (OCL-visual learning 
and short-term memory). The best model for predicting High APS included OCL 
completion status, MMSE and Years of Education, achieving accuracy = 0.808 and 
kappa = 0.606 in participants with MMSE < 21.ConclusionsOur findings suggest a 
consideration of incompletion when using CBB in cognitively impaired older 
adults and a potential approach to differentiate High APS group among those with 
moderate to severe dementia based on visual learning and short-term memory, 
global cognition and education level.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251372958
PMID: 40938652


49. CNS Drugs. 2025 Sep 12. doi: 10.1007/s40263-025-01226-z. Online ahead of
print.

Incretin Hormones GLP-1 and GIP Normalize Energy Utilization and Reduce 
Inflammation in the Brain in Alzheimer's Disease and Parkinson's Disease: From 
Repurposed GLP-1 Receptor Agonists to Novel Dual GLP-1/GIP Receptor Agonists as 
Potential Disease-Modifying Therapies.

Hölscher C(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine and Health Care, Henan Academy of 
Innovations in Medical Science, Zhengzhou, 451100, People's Republic of China. 
c.holscher@hactcm.edu.cn.
(2)Second Hospital, Neurology Department, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, 
030001, Shanxi, People's Republic of China. c.holscher@hactcm.edu.cn.
(3)Kariya Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Ole Maaløes Vej 3, 2200, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
c.holscher@hactcm.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are chronic 
neurodegenerative disorders with few effective drug treatments available. An 
underrated element of these diseases is that glucose uptake and energy 
utilization is much reduced in neurons. In the brains of patients, signaling of 
insulin, insulin-like growth factor 1, and other growth factors is downregulated 
early on. This leads to reduced glucose utilization and impaired mitochondrial 
function. In an attempt to compensate for the loss, other pathways are 
upregulated, e.g., the increased use of ketones produced from fatty acids by 
astrocytes that are shuttled to neurons. In addition, amino acids are 
increasingly used to generate energy. Despite this, neurons generate less and 
less energy over time, leading to impaired synaptic activity, reduced cell 
repair, mitogenesis, autophagy, the accumulation of misfolded proteins, and 
finally, to cell death. At the same time, the chronic inflammation response in 
the brain that is part of these diseases continues to damage neurons. 
Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide 
(GIP) are peptide hormones and growth factors that have shown neuroprotective 
effects in animal studies and in clinical trials. GLP-1 and GIP receptor 
agonists were able to reduce inflammation while normalizing growth factor 
signaling and energy utilization in the brain. Insulin signaling was improved 
and energy utilization, glucose uptake, mitogenesis, and mitochondrial 
functionality was brought back to physiological levels. In addition, the chronic 
inflammation response and the levels of proinflammatory cytokines in the brain 
were much reduced. Clinical trials testing GLP-1 receptor agonists in patients 
with AD or PD have been conducted and have shown first successes, serving as 
proof of concept that activating GLP-1 receptor is a sensible strategy to treat 
AD/PD. A phase II study testing liraglutide in patients with AD showed first 
improvements, and two phase II trials testing exendin-4 (exenatide, Bydureon®) 
or lixisenatide showed improvements in patients with PD. A recent phase III 
trial testing exendin-4 did not show an improvement, which may be linked to the 
lack of insulin desensitization in the study participants. Semaglutide 
(Rybelsus®; Wegovy®; Ozempic®) is currently in two phase III trials for AD. 
Current drugs that are on the market have a long half-life in the blood and do 
not readily cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Newer dual GLP-1/GIP receptor 
agonists have been developed that can more easily cross the BBB and that show 
improved protection in animal models of AD and PD. Therefore, GLP-1 and GIP 
receptor agonists that can cross the BBB show promise as treatments for chronic 
neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40263-025-01226-z
PMID: 40938528

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: C.H. is a 
named inventor on patents that cover GLP-1, GIP, or dual GLP-1/GIP receptor 
agonists as treatments for AD and PD. He is the CSO of the biotech company 
Kariya Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Ethics approval: Not applicable. Consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Availability of data and material: Not applicable. Code availability: Not 
applicable. Author contributions: I am the sole author of the article and agree 
to be accountable for the work.


50. Biochem Genet. 2025 Sep 12. doi: 10.1007/s10528-025-11246-5. Online ahead of 
print.

Dihuang Yinzi Ameliorates Cognitive Impairments and Inhibits Ferroptosis in 
APP/PS1 Mice.

Xie F(1), Zhou L(1), Yu M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Bengbu Medical University, Bengbu, 233004, China.
(2)Department of Basic Theory of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Heilongjiang 
University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, 150040, China. yumi202406@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by cognitive decline and neuronal loss. Ferroptosis, a form of 
regulated cell death driven by iron overload and lipid peroxidation, has been 
implicated in AD pathology. DiHuangYinZi (DHYZ), a traditional Chinese herbal 
remedy, has been suggested to ameliorate cognitive impairments and reduce 
ferroptosis in AD models. This study aimed to investigate the effects of DHYZ on 
learning, memory, ferroptosis markers, and neuronal integrity in APP/PS1 
transgenic mice. Six-month-old APP/PS1 transgenic mice were treated with DHYZ or 
donepezil for four weeks. Learning and memory functions were evaluated using the 
Morris Water Maze (MWM) and open field test. Neuronal integrity was assessed 
through Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) and Nissl staining. Ferroptosis markers, 
including superoxide dismutase (SOD), malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), 
and the GSH/GSSG ratio, were measured in hippocampal tissues. 
Ferroptosis-related protein expressions, such as ferritin, DMT1, FPN1, Nrf2, and 
GPX4, were analyzed using Western blot. DHYZ treatment significantly improved 
learning and memory deficits in APP/PS1 mice, as evidenced by reduced escape 
latency and increased platform crossings in the MWM. DHYZ also reversed 
anxiety-like behavior in the open field test. Histological analysis showed that 
DHYZ treatment restored neuronal integrity, as indicated by better cellular 
arrangement and staining compared to untreated APP/PS1 mice. DHYZ inhibited 
ferroptosis by reducing iron overload, increasing SOD and GSH levels, and 
normalizing the GSH/GSSG ratio. Moreover, DHYZ modulated the expression of 
ferroptosis-related proteins, restoring FPN1 levels while reducing ferritin and 
DMT1 expressions. Nrf2 and GPX4 levels, which were reduced in APP/PS1 mice, were 
significantly increased after DHYZ treatment. DHYZ effectively improved 
cognitive deficits, inhibited ferroptosis, and restored neuronal integrity in 
APP/PS1 mice. These findings suggest that DHYZ may have therapeutic potential 
for AD by targeting ferroptosis and regulating iron metabolism.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10528-025-11246-5
PMID: 40938517

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical Approval and Consent to Participate: The 
study was approved by the Animal Ethics Committee of Bengbu Medical College 
(approval number: [2022] No. 248). Consent for Publication: Not applicable.


51. Cell Biochem Biophys. 2025 Sep 12. doi: 10.1007/s12013-025-01885-1. Online
ahead  of print.

Boron Containing Curcumin-Like Compound as an Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitor and 
Anticancer Agent: Synthesis, Biological Evaluation, and Computational Insights.

Comert Onder F(1)(2), Ural K(3), Onder A(4), Ozpolat B(5), Ay M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart 
University, 17020, Çanakkale, Türkiye. ferahcomertonder@comu.edu.tr.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Natural Products and Drug Research Laboratory, 
Faculty of Science, Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart University, Çanakkale, 17020, 
Türkiye. ferahcomertonder@comu.edu.tr.
(3)Department of Medical System Biology, School of Graduate Studies, Çanakkale 
Onsekiz Mart University, Çanakkale, 17020, Türkiye.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Natural Products and Drug Research Laboratory, 
Faculty of Science, Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart University, Çanakkale, 17020, 
Türkiye.
(5)Department of Nanomedicine, Houston Methodist Research Institute, Houston, 
TX, USA.
(6)Department of Chemistry, Natural Products and Drug Research Laboratory, 
Faculty of Science, Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart University, Çanakkale, 17020, 
Türkiye. mehmetay06@comu.edu.tr.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cancer are significant global health challenges 
that highlight the need for the development of new therapeutics. Targeting 
biological mechanisms involved in both AD and cancer could be an effective 
treatment strategy for developing novel inhibitors. In this study, we 
investigated the effect of a newly synthesized boron containing curcumin-like 
compound as a potential acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor along with its 
cytotoxic effects on breast and colorectal cancer cell lines. Compound A 
exhibited a potent AChE inhibitory activity (IC50 = 22.89 ± 2.32 nM), 
demonstrating that it was more effective than the known inhibitors donepezil 
(IC50 = 28.32 ± 3.27 nM) and tacrine. Compound A showed a moderate cytotoxic 
activity on MCF-7 and BT20 cells with the IC50 values 40.70 ± 2.31 μM and 
41.71 ± 4.51 μM, respectively. Throughout molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, 
the RMSD value of the protein was calculated as 1.56 ± 0.20 Å and 1.65 ± 0.19 Å 
for the complexes of compound A and curcumin, respectively. The interactions 
with specific amino acid residues such as Tyr124, Tyr337, and Trp86 for AChE, 
and Trp82, His438, and Tyr332 for BChE were obtained. Additionally, MM/GBSA 
calculations demonstrated that Compound A had the highest binding free energies 
(-88.89 ± 8.34 kcal/mol for AChE and -73.25 ± 8.83 kcal/mol for BChE) compared 
to curcumin (-67.87 ± 5.48 kcal/mol for AChE and -51.68 ± 5.28 kcal/mol for 
BChE) and tacrine (-56.67 ± 2.22 kcal/mol for BChE) were calculated. Overall, 
these findings suggest that Compound A is a promising agent with its potent AChE 
inhibitory activity and anticancer potential, making it a valuable candidate for 
further research in neurodegenerative diseases and cancer therapy.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12013-025-01885-1
PMID: 40938483

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with Ethical Standards. Conflict of 
Interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


52. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Sep;21(9):e70356. doi: 10.1002/alz.70356.

Specialists' perceptions of clinical instruments, practices, and staging of 
DS-AD: Results from an international survey.

Hillerstrom H(1), Das A(1), Janicki MP(2)(3), Rozas NS(1), Santoro SL(4).

Author information:
(1)LuMind IDSC Foundation, Woburn, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(3)National Task Group on Intellectual Disabilities and Dementia Practices, 
Rockport, Maine, USA.
(4)Massachusetts General Research Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Diagnosing and staging Down syndrome-associated Alzheimer's 
disease (DS-AD) is hindered by the lack of standardized criteria, complicating 
clinical decision making, trial participation, and access to advanced therapies. 
This study aimed to explore perceptions of these issues.
METHOD: An international survey of 42 clinicians and researchers specializing in 
DS-AD gathered perspectives on instruments, symptomatic staging, clinical 
practices, and research priorities.
RESULTS: Respondents noted that key domains of impairment in mild cognitive 
impairment in Down syndrome and DS-AD dementia included memory, executive 
functioning, personality, social behavior, attention, mood, and language. Among 
the 10 assessment tools evaluated, informant-based interviews were noted as 
critical for individuals with severe intellectual disability (ID), while direct 
assessments were noted as useful for those with mild to moderate ID. Common 
diagnostic confounders like hypothyroidism and sleep disorders were identified.
DISCUSSION: Behavioral assessments provide a valuable function; however, future 
efforts should integrate behavioral assessments with biomarkers and develop 
standardized staging frameworks to improve diagnostic reliability, care 
planning, and treatment strategies for DS-AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Personality, social behavior, language, mood/affect, memory, 
executive functioning, and attention are recognized as key domains of impairment 
in both mild cognitive impairment in Down syndrome (MCI-DS) and Down 
syndrome-associated Alzheimer's disease (DS-AD). Ten prominent informant and 
direct assessment tools were noted as appropriate for individuals with DS and 
mild to moderate intellectual disability (ID) for identifying both MCI-DS and 
DS-AD; however, for individuals with severe/profound ID, there was less 
assurance of applicability. Harmonizing recommended tools in a standardized list 
was identified as a strategy to promote consistency across clinical and research 
contexts.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70356
PMCID: PMC12426909
PMID: 40937962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Hampus Hillerstrom is the co‐founder and a board 
member of Anaka Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Amit Das has nothing to report. Matthew P. 
Janicki received honoraria from the LuMind IDSC Foundation to aid in the work on 
the study reported in this article. He serves in a non‐paid capacity as the 
co‐president of the board for the National Task Group in Intellectual 
Disabilities and Dementia Practices, and the executive committee of the ISTAART 
DS‐AD PIA. Natalia S. Rozas has nothing to report. Stephanie Santoro has 
received research funding from LuMind IDSC Down Syndrome Foundation to conduct 
clinical trials for people with DS within the past 2 years. She serves in a 
non‐paid capacity on the Medical and Scientific Advisory Council of the 
Massachusetts Down Syndrome Congress, the board of directors of the Down 
Syndrome Medical Interest Group (DSMIG‐USA), and the executive committee of the 
American Academy of Pediatrics Council on Genetics. Author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


53. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Sep;21(9):e70661. doi: 10.1002/alz.70661.

Reflecting upon Session 8 of the 2023 dementia care summit: Diversity beyond 
outreach, recruitment, and retention.

Glover CM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of California Irvine, 
Orange, California, USA.
(2)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Institute for Memory Impairments and 
Neurological Disorders, University of California, Irvine, California, USA.

Informal dementia caregivers play essential roles in their families, 
communities, and our society. Furthermore, their research participation is 
paramount to fully understanding dementia experiences and aging trajectories. In 
this Perspective, I reflect upon Session 8 of the National Institute on Aging 
(NIA) National Research Summit on Care, Services, and Supports for Persons 
Living with Dementia and Their Care Partners/Caregivers. I assert that the field 
prioritizes outreach, recruitment, and retention regarding the inclusion of 
informal dementia caregivers from diverse backgrounds in research. Fully 
characterizing heterogeneous caregiver experiences and examining the impacts of 
dementia caregiving requires centering informal caregivers in the complete 
context of study design, beginning with research questions. I offer three 
critical areas of research questions for consideration within aging and dementia 
research. These questions may serve as a foundation for future Summits and, 
ultimately, as a pathway to facilitate optimal health and aging for all informal 
dementia caregivers. HIGHLIGHTS: Research engagement and recruitment are 
critical components of dementia studies. These components must align with study 
design, especially research questions. Three critical areas of research 
questions will advance the field of dementia. Examining these research questions 
will provide evidence for policy and strategy. Questions focus on post-death 
caregiving, aging trajectories, and clinical trials.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70661
PMCID: PMC12426894
PMID: 40937949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author reports no conflicts with any product 
mentioned or concept discussed in this article. Any author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


54. J Neurochem. 2025 Sep;169(9):e70218. doi: 10.1111/jnc.70218.

Nitration of Tyrosine Residue Y10 of Aβ(1-42) Ameliorates Aβ(1-42)-Induced 
Neurotoxicity and Memory Impairment In Vitro and In Vivo.

Zhao J(1), Chen J(1), Lu J(1), Shi Q(2), Wang Q(1), Gao Z(3), Zeng L(1), Liu 
Q(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Novel Targets and Drug Study for Neural Repair of Zhejiang 
Province, School of Medicine, Hangzhou City University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Marine Bioresource and Eco-Environmental Sciences, 
College of Life Sciences and Oceanography, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
(3)Hubei Key Laboratory of Bioinorganic Chemistry & Materia Medica, School of 
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan, People's Republic of China.
(4)Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute of Brain Science-Shenzhen Fundamental Research 
Institutions, Shenzhen, China.

The abnormal generation and aggregation of Aβ has been considered the central 
pathogenic mechanism of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Soluble Aβ tends to aggregate 
into toxic oligomers, which initiate neuronal dysfunction. Therefore, 
attenuation of Aβ oligomer formation might be an effective therapeutic strategy 
for AD. It has been reported that Aβ can be nitrated at tyrosine 10. Our 
previous study found that nitration of Y10 in Aβ significantly inhibits its 
aggregation and reduces its toxicity. However, the effects of Aβ nitration on 
its neurotoxicity remain unclear. Here, we used SH-SY5Y cells and a mouse model 
of AD induced by intrahippocampal Aβ1-42 oligomer injection to investigate the 
effects of tyrosine nitration on the neurotoxicity of Aβ1-42. The results of dot 
blot, gel electrophoresis analysis, transmission electron microscopy, atomic 
force microscopy, and dynamic light scattering indicated that nitration of Y10 
in Aβ1-42 inhibits its oligomerization. Aβ1-42 treatment perturbed the integrity 
of intracellular membranes, eventually leading to apoptosis of SH-SY5Y cells. In 
contrast, nitrated Aβ1-42 exhibited little neurotoxicity toward SH-SY5Y cells. 
Additionally, mice injected with Aβ1-42 oligomer developed cognitive impairment 
in behavioral tests. Aβ1-42 oligomer caused neurotoxicity in the hippocampus of 
the mice, possibly through triggering apoptosis and neuroinflammation and 
promoting aberrant amyloid processing. As expected, nitrated Aβ1-42 also had 
little effect on physiological and cognitive capacities. These results further 
confirm that nitration of Y10 in Aβ can significantly inhibit its neurotoxicity. 
Moreover, our findings contribute to the understanding of the role of Aβ in the 
development of AD.

© 2025 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.70218
PMID: 40937948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Sep;21(9):e70537. doi: 10.1002/alz.70537.

Randomized phase 2a trial assessing a novel septin molecular glue in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Nuytten M(1), Voets M(1), Debroux E(1), Princen K(1), Pringels L(1), Fivaz M(1), 
Byl E(1), Ramael S(1), De Witte K(1), Boada M(2)(3), Morató X(2)(4), Tartari 
JP(2), Lafuente A(2), Macias EF(5), Matias-Guiu JA(6), Vijverberg E(7), 
Teunissen CE(7), Anderer P(8), Staggs V(9), Hayman V(10), Corbett A(10), Ballard 
C(10), Harrison JE(7)(11)(12), Windisch M(13), Westman AB(14), Zetterberg 
H(14)(15)(16)(17)(18)(19), Dickson S(3), Mallinckrodt C(3), Hendrix S(3), 
Cummings J(20), Griffioen G(1).

Author information:
(1)remynd NV, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona-Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, Les 
Corts, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Pentara Corp., Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.
(4)Networking Research Center on Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Department of Neurology, Memory Unit, Hospital Virgen del Rocío, Sevilla, 
Spain.
(6)Department of Neurology, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria San Carlos 
(IdISSC), Hospital Clínico San Carlos, San Carlos, Madrid, Spain.
(7)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Clinical Chemistry, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(8)The Siesta Group Schlafanalyse GmbH, Vienna, Austria.
(9)IDDI, Inc., Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.
(10)Department of Health & Community Sciences, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(11)Metis Cognition Ltd., Wiltshire, UK.
(12)Centre for Affective Disorders, IoPPN, KCL, London, UK.
(13)NeuroScios GmbH, St. Radegund, Austria.
(14)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Sahlgrenska Academy, University 
of Gothenburg, Sahlgrenska University Hospital/Mölndal, Mölndal, Sweden.
(15)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital/Mölndal, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(16)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(17)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(18)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(19)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(20)Department of Brain Health, Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative 
Neuroscience, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine, University of Nevada, Las 
Vegas, Maryland, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Pharmacological restoration of septin filament integrity has the 
potential to provide symptomatic benefit and disease modification in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD).
METHODS: REM127, a septin modulator, was assessed in mild-to-moderate AD 
(EudraCT: 2022-000080-43) in a phase 2a trial (n = 14).
PRIMARY ENDPOINTS: safety and tolerability; exploratory endpoints: 
pharmacokinetics, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, electroencephalography 
(EEG), and functional outcomes.
RESULTS: In participants on active therapy, dose-dependent increases in serum 
aminotransferase were observed, leading to study discontinuation. CSF 
hyperphosphorylated tau (P-tau181), endpoints reflecting synaptic function and 
cognitive outcomes, were changed significantly (p < 0.05) to normal compared to 
placebo.
DISCUSSION: REM127 triggers off-target liver adverse effects. Anticipated 
on-target outcomes suggest septin modulation has symptomatic benefit and 
modifies processes underlying AD. Results are considered exploratory as 
statistical power is constrained due to the small sample size caused by early 
termination. Further investigation of the therapeutic concept using an optimized 
septin molecular glue with an improved safety profile is warranted.
HIGHLIGHTS: Septin 6/7 molecular glue REM127 was assessed in symptomatic 
participants with Alzheimer's disease (AD). REM127 triggers off-target effects 
suggesting liver adverse effects. REM127 brain exposure was consistent with 
saturated target engagement. Biomarker and cognitive outcomes were changed 
consistent with therapeutic benefit. Septin modulation may restore synaptic 
function and mitigate pathology in AD.

© 2025 remynd NV. Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70537
PMCID: PMC12426855
PMID: 40937833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: P.A. is a paid consultant of The Siesta Group 
Schlafanalyse GmbH. J.E.H. is an employee and shareholder of Metis Cogniton Ltd 
and has previously received consultancy fees from remynd. K.D.W. has received 
consultancy fees from remynd and owns remynd warrants and shares. S.R. is paid 
consultant for remynd. G.G. is paid consultant for remynd and Babylon 
Biosciences and owns remynd warrants and shares. M.F., E.D. and K.P. own remynd 
warrants. H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant 
for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZ Therapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Enigma, 
LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, remynd, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures 
sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). J.C. received consultancy fees from Acadia, Acumen, 
ALZpath, Annovis, Aprinoia, Artery, Axsome, Biogen, Biohaven, BioXcel, 
Bristol‐Myers Squib, Cervomed, Eisai, Fosun, GAP Foundation, Green Valley, 
Hummingbird Diagnostics. IGC, Janssen, Kinoxis, Lighthouse, Lilly, Lundbeck, 
LSP/eqt, Mangrove Therapeutics, Merck, MoCA Cognition, New Amsterdam, Novo 
Nordisk, NSC Therapeutics, Optoceutics, Otsuka, Oxford Brain Diagnostics, 
Praxis, Prothena, Remynd, Roche, Scottish Brain Sciences, Signant Health, 
Simcere, sinaptica, T‐Neuro, TrueBinding, and Vaxxinity pharmaceutical, 
assessment, and investment companies.  E.V. received consultancy fees for New 
Amsterdam Pharma, Treeway, remynd, Vivoryon, Biogen, Vigil Neuroscience, 
ImmunoBrain Checkpoint, Muna Therapeutics, Esai, Eli Lilly, CogRX, Therini, UCB 
and Roche. C.E.T. has research contracts with Acumen, ADx Neurosciences, 
AC‐Immune, Alamar, Aribio, Axon Neurosciences, Beckman‐Coulter, BioConnect, 
Bioorchestra, Brainstorm Therapeutics, Celgene, Cognition Therapeutics, EIP 
Pharma, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Instant Nano Biosensors, Novo Nordisk, 
Olink, PeopleBio, Quanterix, Roche, Toyama, Vivoryon. C.E.T. received 
consultancy fees from Aribio, Biogen, Beckman‐Coulter, Cognition Therapeutics, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, Merck, Novo Nordisk, Novartis, Olink, Roche, Sanofi and 
Veravas. XM received research grants from Novo Nordisk and Kern Pharma. M.B. 
received consulting fees from Grifols, Araclon Biotech, Roche, Biogen, Lilly, 
Merck, Zambon, Novo‐Nordisk and received payments for lectures sponsored by 
Roche, Biogen, Grifols, Nutricia, Araclon Biotech, Servier, Novo‐Nordisk. C.B. 
received grants, contracts or consultancy fees from Novartis, Johnson and 
Johnson, Novo Noridsk, Roch, remynd, Acadia, AARP, Eli Lily, BMS, Janssen, 
Orion, Exciva, Sunovion, Suven, Roche, Biogen, TauRx. A.C. received contracts, 
grants or consultancy fees from remynd, Novo Nordisk, Therini Bio, Suven, 
Johnson and Johnson. K.P. and G.G. are inventors on patent WO2013/004642 held by 
remynd; K.P., M.V., M.F., and G.G. are inventors on patent WO 2024/0033479 held 
by remynd; K.P., M.V., and G.G. are inventors on patent WO 2025/104092 held by 
remynd. M,N,, M.V., E.D., K.P., L.P., M.F. are employees of remynd. E.B. is a 
former employee of remynd., J.P.T., A.L., E.F.M., J.A.M.G., V.S., V.H., M.W., 
A.B.W., S.D., C.M., S.H. have nothing to disclose. Author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


56. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2025 Sep 5;21:1981-1992. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S531588. 
eCollection 2025.

Therapeutic Potential of Porcine Brain-Derived Peptide Mixture (PBDP) in 
Alzheimer's Disease: An Exploratory Study on Quantitative Electroencephalography 
(qEEG) Changes.

Han SH(#)(1)(2), Jeong HB(#)(1)(2), Lee SJ(2), Jeong HT(2), Shin HW(1)(2), Park 
CY(2), Ahn SW(1)(2), Park KY(1)(2)(3), Kim HR(4), Youn YC(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Chung-Ang University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Chung-Ang University Hospital, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Department of Medical Informatics, Chung-Ang University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Chung-Ang University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: This exploratory study investigates the therapeutic potential of 
Porcine Brain-Derived Peptide Mixture (PBDP) in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) by 
examining changes in quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG) parameters 
following treatment.
METHODS: We analyzed qEEG data from 27 AD patients treated with 2-weeks of PBDP 
treatment and compared them to a control group of 20 patients at 2-month 
follow-up, all of whom were previously on donepezil therapy.
RESULTS: EEG modifications were noted within two weeks of PBDP administration, 
including improvements in EEG patterns such as reduced Theta/Beta (4.437 ± 3.979 
to 3.859 ± 3.587, p = 0.442), Theta/Alpha ratio (1.815 ± 1.637 to 1.578 ± 1.304, 
p < 0.05), and Delta/Alpha ratio (2.365 ± 2.471 to 2.105 ± 2.402, p < 0.05) 
across various brain regions, suggesting enhanced cortical activity. 
Post-intervention, 55% of patients showed caregiver-reported improvements in 
mood and daily activities.
CONCLUSION: PBDP could serve as a viable therapeutic approach for managing AD, 
and qEEG could serve as a monitoring biomarker for acute drug effects, 
warranting further investigation into its long-term benefits and mechanistic 
pathways.

© 2025 Han et al.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S531588
PMCID: PMC12420918
PMID: 40937337

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests in 
this work.


57. Cureus. 2025 Aug 11;17(8):e89795. doi: 10.7759/cureus.89795. eCollection 2025
 Aug.

Clinical Correlation and Metabolic Findings on 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose Brain PET 
in Dementia With Lewy Bodies: A Case Report.

Gutierrez Albenda D(1), Ulate Blanco P(2), Murillo J(3), Solano Brenes JJ(4), 
Sánchez Hidalgo NM(4).

Author information:
(1)Cyclotron PET/CT Laboratory, University of Costa Rica, San José, CRI.
(2)School of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Costa Rica, San José, 
CRI.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, University of Costa Rica, San José, CRI.
(4)School of Medicine, University of Costa Rica, San José, CRI.

Neurodegenerative dementias comprise a heterogeneous group of diseases with 
distinct pathological substrates, among which Alzheimer's disease, dementia with 
Lewy bodies (DLB), and frontotemporal dementia are the most prominent. The early 
and accurate diagnosis of these conditions remains a clinical challenge, in 
which both structural and functional imaging techniques play crucial roles. This 
article presents a case of a 68-year-old female patient with progressive 
cognitive decline, evaluated using ¹⁸F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission 
tomography (¹⁸F-FDG PET), which revealed a characteristic pattern of symmetric 
hypometabolism in the temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes, with preserved 
metabolism in the posterior cingulate cortex (the cingulate island sign), a 
finding highly suggestive of DLB. This case highlights the value of ¹⁸F-FDG PET 
as a diagnostic tool in the differential evaluation of dementias and underscores 
the importance of recognizing the specific metabolic pattern of DLB to support 
timely clinical decision-making. The model incorporating visual and 
semi-quantitative parameters achieved a diagnostic accuracy of 84.3%.

Copyright © 2025, Gutierrez Albenda et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.89795
PMCID: PMC12421924
PMID: 40937265

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


58. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Sep 9;11(3):e70154. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70154. 
eCollection 2025 Jul-Sep.

Implications of practice effects for the design of Alzheimer clinical trials.

Duehring JA(1), Jacobs DM(2)(3), Thomas ML(4), Dodge HH(5), Feldman HH(2)(6), 
Edland SD(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, Herbert Wertheim School of Public Health and Human 
Longevity Science University of California San Diego La Jolla California USA.
(2)Department of Neurosciences School of Medicine University of California San 
Diego La Jolla California USA.
(3)Shiley-Marcos Alzheimer's Disease Research Center University of California 
San Diego La Jolla California USA.
(4)Department of Psychology Colorado State University Fort Collins Colorado USA.
(5)Department of Neurology Massachusetts General Hospital Harvard Medical School 
Boston Massachusetts USA.
(6)Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study University of California San Diego La 
Jolla California USA.

INTRODUCTION: Practice effects (PEs) are a well-known potential confound in 
natural history studies of longitudinal cognitive decline in aging and 
early-stage Alzheimer's disease. The implication of PEs on Alzheimer's disease 
clinical trials is less well understood, although we have previously speculated 
that a "run-in" period of repeated cognitive assessments prior to randomization 
may improve the efficiency of clinical trials [Jacobs et al. Alzheimer's & 
Dementia 2017;3(4):531-535]. We have also described how the performance of 
composite outcome measures depends on parameters that may be influenced by PEs.
METHODS: To investigate this, we used the cognitive battery within the National 
Alzheimer's Coordinating Center (NACC) Uniform Data Set to characterize the 
potential impact of PEs on clinical trial design and outcome measures. The 
analysis restricted to N = 1094 amnestic mild cognitively impaired participants 
with 3 years of follow-up data. Linear mixed effects models estimate the 
magnitude of PEs observed in aMCI participants. Power calculations informed by 
the pattern of progression in the NACC sample were used to describe the net 
impact of PEs on trials with and without a run-in phase. Weighting parameters of 
optimal composite measures constructed from the NACC battery were also compared.
RESULTS: PEs were large, often exceeding the magnitude of annual rate of change 
observed in later assessments. Annualized rate of change, and therefore target 
treatment effect sufficient to achieve a specified percentage reduction in rate 
of decline, was larger after run-in. Sample size projections for the run-in 
design were a fraction of those required for trials without run-in. Weighting 
parameters that optimize composite outcome performance were also different for 
the two designs, underscoring the importance of considering design in the 
construction of composite outcomes.
DISCUSSION: Clinical trials randomizing after a run-in period measure treatment 
efficacy relative to decline unbiased by PEs, and require smaller sample size.
HIGHLIGHTS: In the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center (NACC), amnestic 
mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) cohort practice effects often exceed annualized 
rate of change.Run-in clinical trial designs can be used to extinguish practice 
effects.Rate of decline after run-in is faster and unbiased by practice 
effects.Run-in designs correctly target the most clinically relevant outcome 
signal.Practice effects also impact weighting of optimal composite measures.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70154
PMCID: PMC12420670
PMID: 40936998

Conflict of interest statement: M.L.T. reports: consulting services for NeuroUX; 
H.H.F. reports: grants to UCSD from Allyx Therapeutics and Vivoryon 
(Probiodrug); service agreements through UCSD for consulting with LuMind 
Foundation, Biosplice Therapeutics, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals, Novo Nordisk, and 
Axon Neurosciences; DMC and DSMB services for Roche/Genentech Pharmaceuticals, 
Tau Consortium, and Janssen Research & Development LLC, as well as serving on 
the Scientific Advisory Board for the Tau Consortium. All related funds are 
directed to UCSD with none personally received. He also reports philanthropic 
support through the Epstein Family Alzheimer's Disease Collaboration. He reports 
personal funds received for Detecting and Treating Dementia Serial Number 
12/3‐2691 U.S. Patent No. PCT/US2007/07008, Washington DC, U.S. Patent and 
Trademark Office.; and S.D.E. reports: DSMB services for clinical trials 
performed by Janssen Research & Development LLC and Suven. H.H.D., D.M.J., and 
J.A.D. do not report any conflicts of interest.


59. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2025 Sep 12:1-45. doi: 10.1080/07391102.2025.2553155. 
Online ahead of print.

Exploring the novel protein drug target BAG33339.1 of Porphyromonas gingivalis: 
an integrative subtractive proteomics and structural dynamics study.

Paul I(1), Roy A(2), Ray S(1), Pyne S(1), Saha M(1)(3), Ray S(1).

Author information:
(1)Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Amity University, Kolkata, W.B, India.
(2)Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology 
Bombay, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.
(3)Department of Zoology, Seth Anandram Jaipuria College, Kolkata, W.B, India.

Porphyromonas gingivalis, a gram-negative, bacterium interacts favourably with 
host subgingival biofilms to cause adult tooth decay and loss. Consequently, the 
host is infested with an uncontrollable microbial community and a compromised 
immune system, ultimately leading to tissue damage and bone resorption. P. 
gingivalis has also been known to cause cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, 
Alzheimer's disease, depression, prostate and digestive system cancer, 
rheumatoid arthritis, and adverse pregnancy outcomes with high detection 
frequencies. Rising concerns in the recent past, highlight the inefficiency of 
antibiotics and antiseptics in the treatment of P. gingivalis-related 
infections. Hence, the current scenario impels the discovery of an alternative 
therapeutic avenue against P. gingivalis-infections. To elucidate the 
unidentified bacterial mechanisms of infection, we screened a non-homolog of the 
host and gut microbiome as a novel druggable target from 173 essential 
hypothetical proteins of P.gingivalis (BAG33339.1). BAG33339.1 was an inner 
membrane protein with a hydrophobic N-terminal transmembrane helix and a 
primarily reconfiguring C-terminal helical region (Y36 to E52) while the 
residues (downstream of Lys45) lay in the disordered region. Frustration index 
coupled with the mutation matrix showed the steadiness of the transmembrane 
helix and dynamicity of the C-terminal residues finally yielding a 'U'-shaped 
protein conformation. The tendency of the disordered C-terminal residues was to 
generate P. gingivalis variants. The overall conformational stability was 
determined by equilibrating RMSD, Rg and SASA values corroborated by increasing 
H-bonds and helix settling. Targeting the ligand binding pockets of BAG33339.1 
would guide future endeavours to tackle P. gingivalis interaction with host 
systems.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2025.2553155
PMID: 40936458


60. Clin Rheumatol. 2025 Sep 12. doi: 10.1007/s10067-025-07686-4. Online ahead of
 print.

Proton pump inhibitors in systemic sclerosis: should we exercise caution? 
Insights from a large-scale data analysis.

Tskhakaia I(1), Lema D(2), Tsibadze N(2), Lam JR(2), Subramanian A(2), Lau 
A(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Jefferson Einstein Hospital, 5501 Old York Road, 
Philadelphia, PA, 19141, USA. itskhakaia@uabmc.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, Jefferson Einstein Hospital, 5501 Old York Road, 
Philadelphia, PA, 19141, USA.
(3)Division of Rheumatology, Jefferson Einstein Hospital, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a chronic autoimmune disorder often 
accompanied by gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), necessitating frequent 
use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). While PPIs mitigate GERD symptoms and 
protect against lung injury, concerns about their long-term safety, particularly 
regarding chronic kidney disease (CKD), osteoporosis, and Alzheimer's disease, 
are growing. This study aimed to assess whether the adverse effects of PPI are 
amplified in patients with scleroderma.
METHODS: This was a retrospective observational analysis that utilized the 
TriNetX research network, including over 130 million patients globally. The 
study population comprised 6800 SSc patients on PPIs and 1,889,433 GERD patients 
on PPIs. Outcomes were evaluated pre- and post-propensity score matching for 
demographic and clinical factors. Risks of CKD (including stages 3, 4, 5, ESRD, 
hemodialysis dependence), osteoporosis, vascular dementia, and Alzheimer's 
disease were assessed.
RESULTS: The SSc cohort exhibited higher risks of developing CKD (attributable 
risk [AR] 2.8%, p < 0.01) and osteoporosis (AR 9%, p < 0.01) after matching, 
compared to the GERD cohort. Notably, CKD stages 4 and 5 showed minimal 
differences between groups. SSc patients on PPI had lower risks of Alzheimer's 
disease (AR - 0.7%, p < 0.01). While the findings highlight an amplified risk of 
CKD and osteoporosis in SSc patients, the differences in advanced renal disease 
were modest.
CONCLUSION: PPI therapy remains indispensable in SSc management. While 
potentially associated with a slight but significant increase in the risks of 
CKD and osteoporosis, these adverse effects do not negate the critical role of 
PPIs in mitigating GERD and its serious pulmonary complications. A strategy of 
targeted monitoring is recommended to maximize safety. Key Points • Identified 
Amplified Risks in SSc: This large-scale study reveals that SSc patients on PPIs 
face significantly higher risks of chronic kidney disease and osteoporosis 
compared to GERD patients on PPIs, suggesting SSc pathophysiology amplifies 
PPI-associated adverse effects. • Uncovered Neuroprotective Association: 
Contrary to general population trends, SSc patients on PPIs showed a reduced 
risk of Alzheimer's disease, potentially linked to immunosuppressant use, closer 
monitoring, or unique disease mechanisms-a finding warranting further 
investigation. • Provided Real-World Safety Evidence: Leveraging global data 
(> 130 million patients), this study offers robust real-world evidence on PPI 
safety in SSc, reinforcing PPIs' vital role in GERD/ILD management while 
advocating vigilant monitoring for CKD/osteoporosis. • Informed Risk-Benefit 
Clinical Strategy: The findings underscore the need to balance PPI benefits 
(reducing GERD/aspiration-related lung injury) against amplified renal/bone 
risks in SSc, guiding individualized treatment and monitoring protocols despite 
causal limitations of retrospective data.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-025-07686-4
PMID: 40936007

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.61. J Nucl Med. 2025 Sep 11:jnumed.125.269636. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.125.269636. 
Online ahead of print.

Artificial Intelligence-Powered Quantification of Flortaucipir PET for Detecting 
Tau Pathology.

Yoo HB(1), Kang SK(2), Shin SA(2), Kim D(3)(4), Choi H(5), Kim YK(6), Yi D(7), 
Byun MS(8)(9)(10), Lee DY(8)(9)(10), Lee JS(11)(3)(4)(5); Alzheimer’s Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative, Korean Brain Aging Study for the Early Diagnosis and 
Prediction of Alzheimer’s Disease Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Data Innovation in Science, Seoul National University, Seoul, 
Korea.
(2)Brightonix Imaging Inc., Seoul, Korea.
(3)Interdisciplinary Program of Bioengineering, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, Korea.
(4)Artificial Intelligence Institute, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Seoul Metropolitan Government-Seoul National 
University Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(7)Institute of Human Behavioral Medicine, Seoul National University Medical 
Research Center, Seoul, Korea.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(9)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, 
Korea; and.
(10)Convergence Research Center for Dementia, Seoul National University Medical 
Research Center, Seoul, Korea.
(11)Brightonix Imaging Inc., Seoul, Korea; jaes@snu.ac.kr.

We developed and evaluated an artificial intelligence (AI)-powered approach for 
easier quantification of tau PET uptake without requiring structural MR to aid 
earlier tracking of Alzheimer disease (AD). Methods: We implemented a deep 
neural network model that normalizes 18F-AV1451 (tau) PET images to a standard 
template without requiring MR, using transfer learning from a model pretrained 
on amyloid PET. This model was integrated into an MR-free pipeline for tau PET 
quantification and validated on external dataset (Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative). We examined correlations between model-derived tau uptake estimates 
and cognitive measures, including AD stage and episodic memory performance (n = 
666). Longitudinal analyses were conducted to assess whether baseline tau 
deposition predicted future cognitive decline (n = 168). Results: The AI-powered 
pipeline achieved robust performance with intraclass correlation coefficients 
exceeding 0.97 for regional uptake estimation compared with MR-based ground 
truth. We also showed that the tau deposition in metatemporal regions was 
significantly correlated with Mini-Mental State Examination and Montreal 
Cognitive Assessment scores. Elevated tau PET uptake in the entorhinal cortex 
and inferior temporal gyrus predicted future cognitive decline. Conclusion: The 
proposed AI-powered pipeline enhances the clinical accessibility of tau PET by 
reducing scan costs and streamlining the uptake quantification, achieving high 
performance without requiring structural MR. We further demonstrated that the 
pipeline yields cognitively relevant outcome measures for early diagnosis and 
monitoring of AD progression to aid more personalized treatment strategies 
targeting AD biomarkers.

© 2025 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.125.269636
PMID: 40935607


62. J Affect Disord. 2025 Sep 9;393(Pt A):120296. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.120296.
 Online ahead of print.

Systematic review and meta-analysis of Mendelian randomization in delirium 
studies: Key findings and methodological issues.

Tao H(1), Qin XS(2), Liang Z(3), Tan M(4), Jiao J(5), Wang M(6), Tan H(7), Huang 
C(8), Tang S(9), Ding J(10).

Author information:
(1)Central South University, Xiangya School of Nursing, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
Electronic address: 247811040@csu.edu.cn.
(2)Jinan University, Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, School 
of Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. Electronic address: 
qinxiwen@jnu.edu.cn.
(3)The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Clinical Big Data Research Center, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong, China. Electronic address: liangzx9@mail2.sysu.edu.cn.
(4)Central South University, Xiangya School of Nursing, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
Electronic address: minhui_tan@csu.edu.cn.
(5)Central South University, Xiangya School of Nursing, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(6)Central South University, Xiangya School of Nursing, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
Electronic address: wangmiaoli@csu.edu.cn.
(7)Central South University, Xiangya School of Nursing, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
Electronic address: 8305211119@csu.edu.cn.
(8)Ningxia Medical University, School of Nursing, Yinchuan, Hui Autonomous 
Region, China. Electronic address: ChongmeiHuang@nxmu.edu.cn.
(9)Central South University, Xiangya School of Nursing, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
Electronic address: sytang263@csu.edu.cn.
(10)Central South University, Xiangya School of Nursing, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
Electronic address: jinfeng.ding@csu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Delirium is a severe neurocognitive syndrome encountered in various 
medical and healthcare settings. Mendelian randomization (MR) offers a valuable 
approach for exploring causal relationships between delirium and various 
exposures using genetic variants.
METHODS: We systematically searched seven databases from their inception to June 
2025. Two researchers independently screened the articles, extracted the data, 
and conducted quality assessment. Meta-analysis was conducted when at least 
three MR studies using distinct genome-wide association studies (GWAS) datasets 
investigated the association between delirium and same exposure. The causal 
effect of other exposures was narratively synthesized. The methodological 
quality was assessed using a tool adapted from an existing appraisal framework.
RESULTS: A total of 29 MR studies were included. Four studies were pooled into 
meta-analysis, which showed that Alzheimer's disease (OR = 1.31, 
95 %CI:1.23-1.40, I2 = 0.0 %) was a risk factor for delirium. Other exposures 
included 29 additional risk factors, 22 protective factors, five potential 
therapeutic genes and delirium-related 459 serum proteins. We categorized these 
exposures into five domains: (1) lifestyle, (2) anthropometric indices, (3) 
biomarkers, (4) clinical variables, diseases, and treatments, and (5) 
environmental factor. Overall, study quality was acceptable, though concerns 
remained regarding inappropriate exposure and instrument variables selection, 
lack of validation, reporting transparency, and ethnic diversity.
CONCLUSION: Many studies have used MR to explore risk factors for delirium, but 
the range of factors is limited and methodological issues remain. Future studies 
should emphasize biologically relevant exposures, rigorous validation, 
transparent reporting, and diverse populations, and multiple testing correction 
for better reliability and generalizability.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.120296
PMID: 40935251

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


63. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Sep 9;355(Pt A):120586. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2025.120586.  Online ahead of print.

Bazi Bushen improves cognitive dysfunction in 5×FAD mice by targeting amyloid 
pathology, neuroinflammation and cellular senescence.

Huang H(1), Lu W(2), Huang Y(2), Su Y(2), Luo R(2), Zeng Y(2), Yuan C(2), Jia 
Z(3), Wang X(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Mental Health of the Ministry of Education, Guangdong-Hong 
Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area Centre for Brain Science and Brain-Inspired 
Intelligence, Guangdong-Hong Kong Joint Laboratory for Psychiatric Disorders, 
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Psychiatric Disorders, Guangdong Basic 
Research Center of Excellence for Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine 
for Qingzhi Diseases, Department of Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China; Center of 
clinical laboratory, Shenzhen Hospital, Southern Medical University, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong, 518001, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Mental Health of the Ministry of Education, Guangdong-Hong 
Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area Centre for Brain Science and Brain-Inspired 
Intelligence, Guangdong-Hong Kong Joint Laboratory for Psychiatric Disorders, 
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Psychiatric Disorders, Guangdong Basic 
Research Center of Excellence for Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine 
for Qingzhi Diseases, Department of Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Innovation and Transformation of Luobing Theory, 
Hebei Yiling Hospital, Shijiazhuang, China. Electronic address: 
jzhjiazhenhua@163.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of Mental Health of the Ministry of Education, Guangdong-Hong 
Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area Centre for Brain Science and Brain-Inspired 
Intelligence, Guangdong-Hong Kong Joint Laboratory for Psychiatric Disorders, 
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Psychiatric Disorders, Guangdong Basic 
Research Center of Excellence for Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine 
for Qingzhi Diseases, Department of Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China. Electronic 
address: xmwang@smu.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Bazi Bushen (BZBS), a Traditional Chinese 
Medicine (TCM) formula, is composed of fourteen herbal ingredients, including 
classic tonics such as Ginseng Radix et Rhizoma and Cistanches Herba. 
Traditionally used to combat fatigue and promote vitality in aging individuals, 
BZBS is rooted in TCM principles of kidney essence replenishment and brain 
function enhancement. Recent pharmacological studies have begun to validate its 
efficacy in age-related cognitive decline, but its effects and mechanisms in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remain unclear.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aimed to evaluate the potential therapeutic effects 
of BZBS in 5 × FAD transgenic mice, a commonly used Alzheimer's disease model, 
and to shed light on its possible mechanisms of action.
METHODS: Four- and six-month-old 5 × FAD mice were treated with BZBS to examine 
how it might influence cognitive performance. Behavioral assessments were 
carried out using Y-Maze and the Morris Water Maze. To investigate the 
biological changes and uncover the mechanisms involved, we used a range of 
techniques-Thioflavin S staining, immunofluorescence, Western blotting, and 
qPCR-to look at Aβ plaque accumulation, Amyloid Precursor Protein C-terminal 
Fragments (APP-CTF) and β-secretase 1 (BACE1) expression levels, markers of 
inflammation, and indicators of cellular aging in hippocampus and motor cortex.
RESULTS: In the 4-month group, where treatment was started before severe 
pathology developed, BZBS improved learning and memory performance. It also 
reduced amyloid deposition in the cortex and hippocampus, and lowered the levels 
of APP-CTFs and BACE1. In addition, we observed decreased mRNA expression of 
IL-1α, IL-6, and NF-κB, along with reduced microglial activation in the 
hippocampus of BZBS-treated mice. Similarly BZBS downregulated key markers of 
cellular senescence, including p16, p21, and senescence-associated β 
galactosidase (SA-β-gal) activity. In the 6-month group, which already showed 
signs of amyloid pathology, BZBS still had beneficial effects-improving 
cognition, lowering Aβ load, and reducing microglial activity-suggesting that it 
may be effective even after disease onset.
CONCLUSION: These findings demonstrate that BZBS exerts significant therapeutic 
effects in 5 × FAD mice, including improved cognitive improvement, reduced Aβ 
deposition, suppressed microglial activation, and attenuated hippocampal 
cellular senescence. Notably, BZBS was effective whether administered from the 
early stage of pathology (at four months of age) or after established 
amyloidosis (at six months of age), highlighting its dual potential as both a 
preventive and disease-modifying intervention for Alzheimer's disease (AD).

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120586
PMID: 40935215

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


64. J Nutr Biochem. 2025 Sep 9;147:110107. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2025.110107. 
Online ahead of print.

Neuroprotective effects of butyrolactone II from Aspergillus terreus via 
Nrf-2/SKN-1 pathway modulation in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Yang X(1), Hu D(2), Zhao S(2), Wan J(2), Chen L(2), Bao Q(2), Zhang Y(3), Wang 
Q(4), Huang Z(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Process, Institute of Infection, Immunology and 
Tumor Microenvironment, Hubei Province Key Laboratory of Occupational Hazard 
Identification and Control, School of Medicine, Wuhan University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan Asia General Hospital Affiliated to Wuhan University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan Wuchang Hospital Affiliated to Wuhan University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan, China. Electronic address: yxlyxl117@163.com.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Process, Institute of Infection, Immunology and 
Tumor Microenvironment, Hubei Province Key Laboratory of Occupational Hazard 
Identification and Control, School of Medicine, Wuhan University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan Asia General Hospital Affiliated to Wuhan University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan Wuchang Hospital Affiliated to Wuhan University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(3)Hubei Biopesticide Engineering Research Centre, Hubei Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Wuhan, 430064, China. Electronic address: yani.zhang@nberc.com.
(4)School of Biological and Chemical Engineering, Chongqing University of 
Education, Chongqing, 400067, China; School of Food Science and Engineering, 
South China University of Technology, Guangzhou, 510641, China. Electronic 
address: wqq@whu.edu.cn.
(5)School of Food Science and Engineering, South China University of Technology, 
Guangzhou, 510641, China. Electronic address: huangzebo@scut.edu.cn.

Fourteen compounds were isolated from the fermentation broth of Aspergillus 
terreus, all of which were isolated from A. terreus for the first time. Among 
them, butyrolactone II (A9) had excellent DPPH radical scavenging activity, with 
an EC50 value of 42.05 µM superior to positive control drug BHT. Further 
neuroprotective activity evaluation of in Caenorhabditis elegans CL2355 revealed 
that butyrolactone II could alleviate Aβ, causing chemotaxis disorder, 
prolonging lifespan of C. elegans, and reducing 5-HT sensitivity. Butyrolactone 
II treatment significantly elevated the chemotaxis index of genotyped nematode 
CL2355 by 15.06% (P<0.05), and reduced the sensitivity of nematodes to 5-HT, 
decreasing the paralysis rate by 9.8% (P<0.05). Moreover, it significantly 
increased median lifespan and maximum lifespan by 20% and 26% respectively. In 
the RNA transcriptome, Butyrolactone II caused upregulation of 277 
differentially expressed genes and downregulation of 171 differentially 
expressed genes, inducing the entry of transcription factor SKN-1 into the 
nucleus and changes in its downstream genes. The annotation and enrichment of GO 
and KEGG pathways indicated that differentially expressed genes might be related 
to pathways such as metabolic detoxification, oxidative stress, and lysosomal 
autophagy. The qRT-PCR validation of gene expression was consistent with 
transcriptomics. Butyrolactone II could significantly increase the expression of 
mitochondrial fission factor (mff-2), downstream genes related to SKN-1 (dod-17, 
gst-38), heat shock protein genes (hsp-17, hsp-12.6), and oxidative stress 
related genes (cyp-14A5) in nematodes, while having no significant effect on the 
expression level of gst-33 gene. Taken conclusion, butyrolactone II exerts 
neuroprotective effects by modulating the Nrf-2/SKN-1 pathway and regulating 
metabolic pathways, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic strategy for 
Alzheimer's disease and other related neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2025.110107
PMID: 40935202

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Xiliang Yang reports a relationship 
with Wuhan Asia General Hospital that includes: funding grants. The authors 
declare that they do not have any conﬂict of interest.


65. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Aug 30;165:108934. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108934.
Online  ahead of print.

Discovery of natural compounds and their derivatives against neuroinflammation: 
Pharmacological mechanisms and structure-activity relationship.

Xin X(1), Zong T(1), Hu Z(1), Jin L(1), Zhou W(1), Sun J(2), Li G(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines of the Changbai Mountain, Affifiliated 
Ministry of Education, Yanbian University College of Pharmacy, Yanji, Jilin 
133002, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines of the Changbai Mountain, Affifiliated 
Ministry of Education, Yanbian University College of Pharmacy, Yanji, Jilin 
133002, China. Electronic address: jfsun@ybu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines of the Changbai Mountain, Affifiliated 
Ministry of Education, Yanbian University College of Pharmacy, Yanji, Jilin 
133002, China. Electronic address: gli@ybu.edu.cn.

Neuroinflammation refers to the inflammatory response within the central nervous 
system mediated by immune and glial cells, constitutes a pivotal mechanism in 
the pathological progression of neurodegenerative diseases. Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) serves as a paradigmatic example of neuroinflammation role in driving 
cytokine-mediated neuronal damage and perpetuating of disease progression. AD, 
which is characterized by memory decline and progressive cognitive impairment as 
its core clinical manifestations, currently has no effective treatment. Recent 
advances have underscored natural products as promising candidates for the 
development of safer and more effective anti-AD agents, particularly through the 
targeting of neuroinflammatory pathways that have emerged as central 
pathological mechanisms in the progression of AD. This review aims to elucidate 
the pathogenesis of neuroinflammation in AD and provides a comprehensive 
overview of anti-AD drugs currently in clinical research as well as those 
already available on the market. Additionally, this paper highlights natural 
compounds and their derivatives discovered over the past decade that exhibit 
anti-AD neuroinflammatory properties, analyzing the structure-activity 
relationships of selected compounds and their permeability across the 
blood-brain barrier. The goal is to offer valuable insights and references for 
drug developers.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108934
PMID: 40934766

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


66. Int Immunopharmacol. 2025 Sep 10;165:115526. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115526.  Online ahead of print.

Aβ impairs bone vascular homeostasis in APP/PS1 mice via disrupting the 
mitochondrial fission-efferocytosis axis in macrophages.

Liu T(1), Zhang W(2), Bao W(2), Wang X(2), Zhang F(3), Guo J(4), Li M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bone Metabolism, School and Hospital of Stomatology, Cheeloo 
College of Medicine, Shandong University & Shandong Key Laboratory of Oral 
Tissue Regeneration & Shandong Engineering Research Center of Dental Materials 
and Oral Tissue Regeneration & Shandong Provincial Clinical Research Center for 
Oral Diseases, Jinan, China; Center of Osteoporosis and Bone Mineral Research, 
Shandong University, Jinan, China; Department of Orthodontics, School and 
Hospital of Stomatology, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong University, 
China.
(2)Department of Bone Metabolism, School and Hospital of Stomatology, Cheeloo 
College of Medicine, Shandong University & Shandong Key Laboratory of Oral 
Tissue Regeneration & Shandong Engineering Research Center of Dental Materials 
and Oral Tissue Regeneration & Shandong Provincial Clinical Research Center for 
Oral Diseases, Jinan, China; Center of Osteoporosis and Bone Mineral Research, 
Shandong University, Jinan, China.
(3)Department of Bone Metabolism, School and Hospital of Stomatology, Cheeloo 
College of Medicine, Shandong University & Shandong Key Laboratory of Oral 
Tissue Regeneration & Shandong Engineering Research Center of Dental Materials 
and Oral Tissue Regeneration & Shandong Provincial Clinical Research Center for 
Oral Diseases, Jinan, China; Center of Osteoporosis and Bone Mineral Research, 
Shandong University, Jinan, China; Department of Orthodontics, School and 
Hospital of Stomatology, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong University, 
China. Electronic address: zhfan@sdu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Bone Metabolism, School and Hospital of Stomatology, Cheeloo 
College of Medicine, Shandong University & Shandong Key Laboratory of Oral 
Tissue Regeneration & Shandong Engineering Research Center of Dental Materials 
and Oral Tissue Regeneration & Shandong Provincial Clinical Research Center for 
Oral Diseases, Jinan, China; Center of Osteoporosis and Bone Mineral Research, 
Shandong University, Jinan, China; Department of Orthodontics, School and 
Hospital of Stomatology, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong University, 
China. Electronic address: kqgj@sdu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Bone Metabolism, School and Hospital of Stomatology, Cheeloo 
College of Medicine, Shandong University & Shandong Key Laboratory of Oral 
Tissue Regeneration & Shandong Engineering Research Center of Dental Materials 
and Oral Tissue Regeneration & Shandong Provincial Clinical Research Center for 
Oral Diseases, Jinan, China; Center of Osteoporosis and Bone Mineral Research, 
Shandong University, Jinan, China; School of Clinical Medicine, Jining Medical 
University, Jining, China. Electronic address: liminqi@sdu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with progressive bone loss, but the 
underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study focused on how amyloid-β (Aβ) 
disrupted bone vascular homeostasis by impairing macrophage efferocytosis in 
APP/PS1 mice. We found that Aβ accumulation in bone tissue impaired 
MerTK-mediated macrophage efferocytosis and promoted excessive accumulation of 
apoptotic endothelial cells (ECs). Mechanistically, Aβ triggered excessive 
mitochondrial fission via GSK-3β-mediated DRP1 phosphorylation, resulting in 
elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) and subsequent ADAM17 activation. ADAM17 
cleaved MerTK, a critical efferocytosis receptor, impairing apoptotic cells 
(ACs) clearance. Pharmacological inhibition of GSK-3β (LiCl and TDZD-8) or 
mitochondrial fission (Mdivi-1) restored MerTK expression, improved 
efferocytosis, and reduced inflammatory cytokine release (such as TNF-α, IL-6), 
while enhancing vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs). In vivo, LiCl 
treatment ameliorated bone loss and vascular dysfunction in APP/PS1 mice. These 
findings revealed that Aβ disrupted the mitochondrial fission-efferocytosis axis 
in macrophages, contributing to AD-related bone pathology, and highlighted 
GSK-3β as a potential therapeutic target for preserving bone vascular 
homeostasis in AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115526
PMID: 40934542

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


67. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep 11:13872877251372587. doi:
10.1177/13872877251372587.  Online ahead of print.

A new lens on Alzheimer's disease: Insights into the Edinger-Westphal nucleus 
and its circuits.

Zhou Y(1), Su T(1), Yuan M(1), Li WL(2), Zhou Y(2), Kou JX(2), Chang JS(1), Liu 
D(2), Chen L(1), Zhan K(1), Zhu LQ(2).

Author information:
(1)The Second Affiliated Hospital, Department of Neurology, Hengyang Medical 
School, University of South China, Hengyang, China.
(2)Department of Pathophysiology, School of Basic Medicine, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the primary cause of dementia, and as the population 
ages, the number of individuals affected by the disease continues to rise. 
However, effective treatments for AD are still lacking. In the initial stages of 
AD, many brain regions are susceptible to its characteristic pathological 
changes, such as the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW nucleus) located in the 
midbrain region, which functions primarily as the parasympathetic oculomotor 
nucleus regulating pupil constriction. In this review, we outline the 
characteristics of EW nucleus alterations in AD and their potential role in the 
disease's onset and progression from various perspectives, including molecular 
changes, pathological alterations, and synaptic circuits. We propose that 
cognitive functions governed by the EW nucleus and its associated circuits may 
undergo early changes in AD and could serve as potential targets for the early 
diagnosis and therapeutic development of AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251372587
PMID: 40934150


68. Cell Rep. 2025 Sep 23;44(9):116266. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2025.116266. Epub
2025  Sep 9.

Coordination of autophagosome closure and release by the Alzheimer's 
disease-associated protein BIN1.

Palmer JE(1), Puri C(1), O'Rourke RS(2), Son SM(1), Sang C(1), Huang YA(2), 
Rubinsztein DC(3).

Author information:
(1)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, University of Cambridge, CB2 OXY 
Cambridge, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, 
Cambridge, UK.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry, Brown 
University, 70 Ship Street, Providence, RI 02903, USA.
(3)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, University of Cambridge, CB2 OXY 
Cambridge, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, 
Cambridge, UK. Electronic address: dcr1000@cam.ac.uk.

Autophagosome closure by the endosomal sorting complex required for transport 
(ESCRT) complex is a prerequisite for their dynamin 2 (DNM2)-dependent release 
from the recycling endosome and subsequent lysosomal clearance. However, the 
mechanism that coordinates autophagosome closure and release is unknown. We 
identified that the Alzheimer's disease-associated protein bridging integrator 1 
(BIN1) is a critical mediator of this coordination. Prior to autophagosome 
closure, BIN1 is held at autophagosomes by ESCRT-III and inhibits DNM2. Once the 
autophagosome has closed and ESCRT-III disassembles, BIN1 is released, removing 
the inhibition of DNM2. This mechanism provides insight into the functional 
consequences of increased BIN1 expression, as this occurs in microglia with 
Alzheimer's disease risk-associated polymorphisms. We find that the 
overexpression of BIN1 microglial isoforms inhibits DNM2-mediated autophagosome 
release and autophagic clearance. This provides a coherent explanation for the 
increased Alzheimer's disease risk associated with BIN1, as impaired microglial 
autophagy alters phagocytosis and is associated with microglial senescence and 
neuroinflammation.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2025.116266
PMID: 40934078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests D.C.R. is a consultant 
for Drishti Discoveries; PAQ Therapeutics; MindRank AI; Retro Biosciences; 
Alexion Pharma International Operations Limited; Carlyle Investment Management 
LLC; Aladdin Healthcare Technologies, Ltd.; Nido Biosciences; and ProtosBio. 
A.H. and R.S.O. have affiliations with Acre Therapeutics, LLC.


69. Front Immunol. 2025 Aug 26;16:1646740. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1646740. 
eCollection 2025.

Bidirectional crosstalk between microglia and serotonin signaling in 
neuroinflammation and CNS disorders.

Zheng Y(1), Xu L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Gongli Hospital Medical Technology, University of Shanghai for 
Science and Technology, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Gongli Hospital of Shanghai Pudong New 
Area, Shanghai, China.

Neuroinflammatory processes are increasingly recognized as central to the 
pathophysiology of diverse central nervous system (CNS) disorders, including 
major depressive disorder (MDD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Parkinson's 
disease (PD). Microglia, the resident immune effector cells of the CNS, are key 
regulators of neuroimmune responses and engage in bidirectional communication 
with the serotonergic system. Activation of microglia toward a pro-inflammatory 
phenotype can disrupt serotonergic neurotransmission by altering the expression 
and function of the serotonin transporter (SERT) and modulating downstream 5-HT 
receptor signaling pathways. Conversely, serotonergic neurotransmission-mediated 
through receptor subtypes such as 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A/2B, and 5-HT7-can regulate 
microglial phenotypic polarization and cytokine production, thereby influencing 
the inflammatory milieu and CNS homeostasis. This review synthesizes current 
evidence on the dynamic interplay between microglial activation states and 
serotonergic signaling, emphasizing their mutual contributions to disease onset 
and progression. Furthermore, we examine the therapeutic potential of targeting 
this neuroimmune interface using pharmacological strategies, including selective 
serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), anti-inflammatory agents, and 
receptor-specific ligands. Clarifying this bidirectional crosstalk may inform 
the development of innovative interventions for neuroinflammation-associated 
neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Zheng and Xu.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1646740
PMCID: PMC12417188
PMID: 40934003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


70. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2025 Sep 4;19:7681-7705. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S531909. 
eCollection 2025.

Traditional Chinese Medicine Natural Products Targeting Shared Mechanisms of 
T2DM and AD: Potential Therapeutic Insights.

Song B(#)(1), Yue D(#)(2), Yan H(1), Feng L(1)(3), Li M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, the Third Affiliated Clinical Hospital of the 
Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, Jilin Province, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The 32183 Military Hospital of PLA, Baicheng, 
Jilin Province, People's Republic of China.
(3)Shandong Key Laboratory of TCM Multi-Targets Intervention and Disease 
Control, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Shandong First Medical University, 
Taian, Shandong Province, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

As highly prevalent chronic diseases globally, AD (Alzheimer's disease) and T2DM 
(type 2 diabetes mellitus) not only severely affect the quality of life of 
patients but also impose a significant burden on their families. Numerous 
studies have gradually revealed that T2DM and AD are bidirectional risk factors, 
each capable of exacerbating the other. There is a notable correlation in their 
pathological mechanisms, primarily manifested in insulin resistance, OS 
(oxidative stress), and inflammatory responses. Currently, available drugs can 
only delay the progression of AD, such as Donepezil, Galantamine, and 
Carbamylcholine, making complete cures challenging to achieve. TCM (Traditional 
Chinese medicine) natural products exhibit characteristics such as 
multi-targeting, multi-pathway interactions, diverse biological activities, and 
relatively mild side effects, enabling synergistic intervention in both 
diseases. In recent years, TCM natural products have garnered increasing 
attention in research concentrated on the prevention and management of AD and 
T2DM. This article aims to comprehensively elucidate the collective pathogenic 
mechanism of AD and T2DM, and explore the progress of TCM natural products based 
on these mechanisms in the prevention and treatment of both diseases, thereby 
providing a theoretical foundation for the advancement of innovative treatment 
tactics.

© 2025 Song et al.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S531909
PMCID: PMC12417590
PMID: 40933919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as potential conflicts of interest.


71. Front Cell Neurosci. 2025 Aug 26;19:1658074. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1658074.
 eCollection 2025.

Human brain organoids: an innovative model for neurological disorder research 
and therapy.

Li H(#)(1)(2), Zhu J(#)(1)(3), Li J(#)(1), Wu Y(1), Luo C(2), Huang Y(1), Wu 
J(1), Liu W(3), Wang H(1)(4), Mo Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering, School of Food and Pharmaceutical 
Engineering, Zhaoqing University, Zhaoqing, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology of Chinese Medicine, School of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Key Laboratory for Research and Utilization of Southern Medicine, Zhaoqing 
University, Zhaoqing, China.
(4)Risk Assessment Laboratory for Agricultural Product Quality and Safety, 
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zhaoqing University, Zhaoqing, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

The emergence of human brain organoids (hBOs) has transformed how we study brain 
development, disease mechanisms, and therapy discovery. These 3D in vitro neural 
models closely mimic the cellular diversity, spatial structure, and functional 
connectivity of the human brain, providing a groundbreaking platform that 
outperforms traditional 2D cultures and animal models in studying 
neurodevelopment and neurological disorders. To further explore the potential of 
hBOs technology, we review current literature focusing particularly on its 
applications for diagnosing and treating major neurological diseases such as 
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and other related neurological 
disorders. Using patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells combined with 
cutting-edge gene-editing technologies, hBOs enable highly precise mechanistic 
studies and scalable drug screening. Moreover, we further discuss the advantages 
and current limitations of hBOs. Despite these challenges, hBOs remain a 
transformative platform for the development of targeted neurotherapeutics. 
Collectively, this review offers a solid foundation for advancing neuroscience 
research and fostering innovative treatment strategies for neurological 
disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Li, Zhu, Li, Wu, Luo, Huang, Wu, Liu, Wang and Mo.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1658074
PMCID: PMC12417440
PMID: 40933857

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


72. J Inflamm Res. 2025 Sep 4;18:12191-12225. doi: 10.2147/JIR.S534623.
eCollection  2025.

SETD7 Dual Role in Disease and Opportunities for Therapeutic Intervention: 
Current Perspectives.

Baboni F(1), Tembo KM(2)(3), Zhou X(1), Li Q(1), Dai C(1), Zhao Y(1), Batoko 
S(4), Lan P(1), Chen Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Organ Transplantation, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology; Key Laboratory of Organ 
Transplantation, Ministry of Education; NHC Key Laboratory of Organ 
Transplantation; Key Laboratory of Organ Transplantation, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Wuhan, People's Republic of China.
(2)The Center for Biomedical Research, Department of Respiratory and Critical 
Care Medicine, Key Laboratory of Pulmonary Diseases of Health Ministry, Tongji 
Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Sciences and 
Technology, Wuhan, People's Republic of China.
(3)Healit Research International and TRACE Research and Innovation, Untold 
Global Healit Zambia, Lusaka, Zambia.
(4)School of Economics, Zhongnan University of Economics and Law, Wuhan, 430073, 
People's Republic of China.

SET domain-containing lysine methyltransferase 7 (SETD7) is a critical enzyme 
that methylates lysine residues on both histone and non-histone proteins, 
thereby regulating gene expression and protein function. This methyltransferase 
plays a versatile and context-dependent role in a wide range of physiological 
processes, including cell differentiation, reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
signaling, oxidative stress regulation, and energy metabolism. SETD7's dual 
nature is highlighted by its paradoxical involvement in various diseases such as 
cancer, asthma, and Alzheimer's disease, where it can either promote or suppress 
pathological progression depending on the cellular environment and molecular 
context. The multifaceted functions of SETD7 underscore its importance in 
maintaining cellular homeostasis but also present significant challenges for 
therapeutic targeting. Although selective inhibitors like Cyproheptadine and 
(R)-PFI-2 have recently been identified, the development of highly specific and 
effective therapies remains complex due to SETD7's broad regulatory roles and 
the potential for unintended effects on normal physiological processes. These 
challenges necessitate nuanced therapeutic strategies, including the exploration 
of combination treatments and context-specific modulation to maximize efficacy 
while minimizing adverse outcomes. This review comprehensively explores SETD7's 
structure, subcellular localization, and diverse biological functions in both 
normal and disease states. By elucidating the dual and context-dependent nature 
of SETD7, it aims to provide a framework for future research focused on 
unraveling its molecular mechanisms and advancing targeted therapeutic 
approaches that leverage its unique regulatory capabilities.

© 2025 Baboni et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S534623
PMCID: PMC12417711
PMID: 40933754

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


73. J Nutr Sci. 2025 Sep 1;14:e61. doi: 10.1017/jns.2025.10036. eCollection 2025.

Supplementation with fish oil reduces αβ 42 burden and shifts αβ precursor 
protein processing toward non-amyloidogenic pathways in a rat model of 
hyperglycaemic Alzheimer's disease.

Titisari N(1)(2), Fauzi A(3), Razak ISA(1), Samsulrizal N(4), Ahmad H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Preclinical Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Veterinary Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Universitas Brawijaya, East Java, Indonesia.
(3)Department of Veterinary Clinical Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Universitas Brawijaya, East Java, Indonesia.
(4)Faculty of Applied Sciences, Universiti Teknologi MARA, Shah Alam, Malaysia.

This study examines the influence of fish oil on brain amyloidogenesis in 
hyperglycaemic Alzheimer's disease animal models, emphasising the potential of 
omega-3 fatty acids in fish oil to prevent the development of Alzheimer's 
disease. Thirty males of Wistar rats were divided into five groups: 1) control 
rats (NS); 2) rats supplemented with 3 g/kg of fish oil (NS+FO3); 3) rats 
injected via intraperitoneal (i.p) with Streptozotocin-Lipopolysaccharide 
(STZ-LPS); 4) rats injected with STZ-LPS (i.p) and supplemented with 1 g/kg of 
fish oil (STZ-LPS+FO1), and 5) rats injected with STZ-LPS (i.p) and supplemented 
with 3 g/kg of fish oil (STZ-LPS+FO3). The cerebral brain was extracted for 
examination, and the αβ precursor protein (APP) level was measured using an 
immunoassay kit, while αβ 42 expression was evaluated using immunohistochemistry 
staining. Brain amyloidosis-related genes were quantified using real-time 
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). The results revealed that fish oil 
supplementation significantly increased APP levels and reduced αβ 42 
accumulations in STZ-LPS rats. Moreover, the Apolipoprotein E, ε4 isoform 
(ApoE-4) and Beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (Bace-1) genes were downregulated 
while the Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (Lrp-1) gene was 
upregulated in STZ-LPS rats treated with fish oil, thereby elucidating the 
impact of fish oil on diminishing αβ buildup in the brain. Therefore, this study 
contributes to a growing body of evidence supporting dietary interventions as 
adjunctive strategies for the prevention or delay of Alzheimer's disease 
progression in metabolic dysfunction.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1017/jns.2025.10036
PMCID: PMC12418286
PMID: 40933257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


74. Front Neurosci. 2025 Aug 26;19:1663276. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1663276. 
eCollection 2025.

Plasma FGF2 and YAP1 as novel biomarkers for MCI in the elderly: analysis via 
bioinformatics and clinical study.

Zhao Y(1)(2), Wang X(3), Zhang J(2), Zhao Y(2), Li Y(3), Shen J(2), Yuan Y(2), 
Li J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, Institute of Geriatric Medicine, Beijing Hospital, 
National Center of Gerontology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Institute of Geriatric Medicine, Beijing Hospital, 
National Center of Gerontology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, 
China.

The contemporary consensus firmly emphasizes the urgent need to reorient 
research efforts toward the early detection of preclinical Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) or mild cognitive impairment (MCI). However, there is still a notable 
absence of novel biomarkers that are both efficient, minimally invasive, and 
cost-effective in real-world clinical settings. To address this gap, datasets 
GSE29378 and GSE12685 were selected to screen differentially expressed genes 
(DEGs), and hub genes were identified by different algorithms. A total of 350 
DEGs were identified in bioinformatics data mining. Functional enrichment 
analysis showed that fibroblast growth factor 2(FGF2) and yes-associated protein 
1(YAP1) protein levels were highly expressed in AD samples, indicating their 
potential regulatory roles in AD. Between October and November 2024, a total of 
146 elderly individuals diagnosed with MCI and 54 healthy elderly subjects were 
successfully recruited. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to 
detect plasma hub gene protein concentration. The results showed that the 
expression levels of plasma FGF2 and YAP1 proteins in the MCI group were 
significantly higher compared to the control group. Logistic regression analysis 
indicated that high plasma FGF2 and YAP1 expression levels were independently 
associated with MCI in the elderly. The Area under the curve (AUC) of FGF2 model 
and YAP1 model were 0.907 and 0.972, respectively. Therefore, the high 
expression of plasma FGF2 and YAP1 proteins may be independent predictive risk 
factors for MCI in the elderly. Our findings may provide targets for the 
development of early minimally invasive, efficient, and convenient screening 
tools, and even for the treatment of AD in the future.

Copyright © 2025 Zhao, Wang, Zhang, Zhao, Li, Shen, Yuan and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1663276
PMCID: PMC12417436
PMID: 40933191

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


75. Front Genome Ed. 2025 Aug 26;7:1612868. doi: 10.3389/fgeed.2025.1612868. 
eCollection 2025.

Stem cell and CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing technology in Alzheimer's disease 
therapy: from basic research to clinical innovation.

He C(1), Chen B(2), Yan C(2), Zhou X(3).

Author information:
(1)Second Clinical Medical College, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, 
Harbin, China.
(2)First Clinical Medical College, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, 
Harbin, China.
(3)Beijing University of Chinese Medicine Shenzhen Hospital (Longgang), 
Shenzhen, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized 
by Aβ plaques, tau protein neuronal fiber tangles, and neuroinflammation, poses 
a significant global health problem, and current therapies focus on the symptoms 
rather than the cause. This paper gives a new multidimensional therapeutic form 
to AD treatment by exploring the integrated application of stem cell therapy and 
CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing technology. The study comprehensively dissected the 
roles of neural stem cells (NSCs), induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) and 
mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in neural replacement, neuroinflammation 
modulation and neuroplasticity enhancement, and also explored the application of 
CRISPR/Cas9 in modifying the pathogenic variants of AD-related genes (APP, PSEN1 
and PSEN2). The key findings suggest that gene-edited iPSCs can reduce abnormal 
Aβ and tau protein accumulation in AD models, improve cognitive function, and 
provide a platform for disease modeling and drug screening. Stem cell 
transplantation promotes neurogenesis and synaptic plasticity by secreting 
neurotrophic factors to improve the brain microenvironment. Despite the 
challenges of off-target effects, immune rejection, and long-term safety, the 
synergistic application of these two technologies offers a breakthrough solution 
for AD treatment. This paper highlights the translational potential of combining 
stem cells with gene editing technology, which is expected to drive clinical 
applications in the next 5-10 years. The integration of these advanced 
technologies not only addresses the limitations of current AD treatments, but 
also paves the way for a personalized medical approach that is expected to 
revolutionize the AD treatment landscape and bring new hope to patients 
worldwide.

Copyright © 2025 He, Chen, Yan and Zhou.

DOI: 10.3389/fgeed.2025.1612868
PMCID: PMC12417523
PMID: 40933041

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


76. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2025 Aug 13;33(3):101563. doi: 
10.1016/j.omtm.2025.101563. eCollection 2025 Sep 11.

AAV-mediated peripheral scFv's administration to reduce cerebral tau in adult 
P301S transgenic mice: Mono-vs. combination therapy.

Katel S(1), Cicalo J(1), Vasciaveo V(1), Vecchio LM(2), Carrion J(3), Mahadeo 
L(3), Huerta PT(4)(5)(6), Choksi JD(1), Aubert I(2)(7), Marambaud P(1)(5)(6), 
Giliberto L(1)(6)(8), d'Abramo C(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)The Litwin-Zucker Center for Alzheimer's Disease & Memory Disorders, 
Institute of Molecular Medicine, Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research, 
Manhasset, NY, USA.
(2)Hurvitz Brain Sciences Research Program, Biological Sciences, Sunnybrook 
Research Institute, Toronto, ON M4N 3M5, Canada.
(3)Laboratory for Behavioral and Molecular Neuroimaging (LBMN) Center for 
Neurosciences, Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research, Manhasset, NY, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Immune & Neural Networks, Feinstein Institutes for Medical 
Research, Manhasset, NY, USA.
(5)Elmezzi Graduate School of Molecular Medicine at Northwell Health, Manhasset, 
NY, USA.
(6)Donald and Barbara Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, Hempstead, 
NY, USA.
(7)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON M5S 1A8, Canada.
(8)Institute for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Northwell Health, Manhasset, NY, 
USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2025 Feb 17:2025.02.13.638144. doi: 10.1101/2025.02.13.638144.

Tau is a primary target for immunotherapy in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent 
studies have shown the potential of anti-tau fragment antibodies in lowering 
pathological tau levels in vitro and in vivo. Here, we compared the effects of 
single-chain variable fragments (scFvs) derived from the well-characterized 
monoclonal antibodies PHF1 and MC1. We used adeno-associated virus 1 (AAV1) to 
deliver scFvs to skeletal muscle cells in 8-week-old P301S tau transgenic mice. 
We evaluated motor and behavioral functions at 16 and 23 weeks of age and 
measured misfolded, soluble, oligomeric, and insoluble brain tau species. 
Monotherapy with scFv-MC1 improved motor and behavioral functions more 
effectively than scFv-PHF1 or combination therapy. Brain glucose metabolism also 
benefited from scFv-MC1 treatment. Surprisingly, combining scFvs targeting early 
(MC1) and late (PHF1) tau modifications did not produce additive or synergistic 
effects. These results confirm that intramuscular AAV1-mediated scFv-MC1 gene 
therapy holds promise as a potential treatment for AD. Our findings also suggest 
that combining scFvs targeting different tau epitopes may not necessarily 
enhance efficacy if administered together in a prevention paradigm. Further 
research is needed to explore whether other antibodies' combinations and/or 
administration schedules could improve the efficacy of scFv-MC1 alone.

© 2025 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.omtm.2025.101563
PMCID: PMC12419030
PMID: 40932994

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


77. Chem Asian J. 2025 Sep 11:e00705. doi: 10.1002/asia.202500705. Online ahead
of  print.

Synthesis and Evaluation of Tacrinocerins, Tacrine Hybrids with α-Onocerin from 
Phlegmariurus nummulariifolius (Blume) Ching, as a Novel Class of 
Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitor.

Ngernnak C(1), Wongsuwan S(2), Ruchirawat S(1)(2)(3), Thasana N(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry, Chulabhorn Research Institute, Laksi, 
Bangkok, 10210, Thailand.
(2)Chemical Sciences Program, Chulabhorn Graduate Institute, Laksi, Bangkok, 
10210, Thailand.
(3)Center of Excellence on Environmental Health and Toxicology (EHT), OPS, 
Ministry of Higher Education Science Research and Innovation, Bangkok, 10400, 
Thailand.

This study reports the synthesis and biological evaluation of tacrinocerins, a 
series of hybrid compounds derived from tacrine (1) and the natural product 
α-onocerin (2), which was isolated from the Thai club moss Phlegmariurus 
nummulariifolius (Blume) Ching. The primary aim was to develop potent and safe 
therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The compounds were assessed for their 
inhibitory activity against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and 
butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), as well as their cytotoxicity and potential for 
cancer chemoprevention. The results showed that compound 8b was the most potent 
AChE inhibitor but exhibited high cytotoxicity to neuronal and hepatic cells, 
making it a better candidate for anticancer applications. Additionally, 
tacrinocerin 4u, which exhibited moderate AChE inhibition, low toxicity, and 
anticancer potential, makes it an attractive candidate for the development of 
safer therapeutic agents. Meanwhile, tacrinocerin 4c emerged as the most 
promising candidate for AD therapy, combining potent AChE inhibition with a 
favorable safety profile. It showed moderate to low toxicity to neuronal and 
hepatic cells, while also demonstrating significant anticancer activity against 
MOLT-3 cells and excellent multitarget chemopreventive potential. This research 
successfully identified 4c as a leading dual-action agent, providing a strong 
foundation for designing next-generation tacrinocerins with optimized 
therapeutic indices.

© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/asia.202500705
PMID: 40932409


78. Epilepsia Open. 2025 Sep 11. doi: 10.1002/epi4.70131. Online ahead of print.

Etiological diagnosis of late-onset epilepsy: A key priority for Italian 
epileptologists - Insights from a LICE survey.

Nardi Cesarini E(1), Falcicchio G(2), Librizzi L(3), Sciaccaluga M(4), Assenza 
G(5)(6), Galimberti CA(7), Giorgi FS(8)(9), DiFrancesco JC(10), Costa C(11); 
“Late‐Onset Epilepsy Study Group” of the Lega Italiana contro l'Epilessia 
(LICE), the Italian Chapter of the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE).

Author information:
(1)UOC Neurologia, AST Pesaro-Urbino, Fano, Italy.
(2)Department of Translational Biomedicine and Neurosciences, University of Bari 
'Aldo Moro', Bari, Italy.
(3)Epilepsy Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Neurologico Carlo Besta, Milan, 
Italy.
(4)Section of Neurology, Laboratory of Experimental Neurology, Department of 
Medicine and Surgery, University of Perugia, Perugia, Italy.
(5)Research Unit of Neurology, Department of Medicine and Surgery, Università 
Campus Bio-Medico di Roma, Roma, Italy.
(6)Operative Research Unit of Neurology, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario 
Campus Bio-Medico, Rome, Italy.
(7)Epilepsy Centre, IRCCS Mondino Foundation, Pavia, Italy.
(8)Department of Translational Research and New Surgical and Medical 
Technologies, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(9)IRCCS Stella Maris Foundation, Calambrone, Pisa, Italy.
(10)Department of Neurology, Fondazione IRCCS San Gerardo dei Tintori, Monza, 
Italy.
(11)Section of Neurology, Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of 
Perugia, S.M. Misericordia Hospital, Perugia, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: The incidence of epilepsy rises markedly after age 50. While 
late-onset epilepsy (LOE) is often linked to structural brain abnormalities, 
non-structural factors, such as infections, autoimmune disorders, and 
neurodegenerative diseases, also contribute. Approximately 20% of LOE cases 
remain of unknown etiology (LOEU). This study evaluated the diagnostic and 
therapeutic strategies employed by Italian epileptologists in managing LOE and 
LOEU, with the ultimate goal of proposing a standardized diagnostic algorithm.
METHODS: Data were collected through a cross-sectional online survey 
administered to neurologists who are formal members of the Italian Chapter of 
the International League Against Epilepsy (LICE). Descriptive statistics were 
used to summarize responses, and inferential statistics were applied to derive 
meaningful conclusions.
RESULTS: Sixty-five epilepsy centers across 19 of the 20 Italian regions 
participated in the survey. EEG (100%; n = 65) and brain MRI (92.31%; n = 60) 
were routinely employed in the diagnostic evaluation of LOE. In over half of the 
centers (58.46%; n = 38), sleep-activated or sleep-influenced EEGs were also 
used. For LOEU cases, neuropsychological assessments were performed in 60% of 
centers. More than 30% of centers employed additional diagnostic tools, 
including lumbar puncture, FDG-PET, and serum antibody testing for neural 
autoantibodies. The most commonly prescribed anti-seizure medications (ASMs) for 
LOE were levetiracetam (86.15%; n = 56), lacosamide (81.54%; n = 53), and 
lamotrigine (61.54%; n = 40).
SIGNIFICANCE: These findings suggested that Italian epileptologists frequently 
evaluate patients with LOE during routine outpatient visits. LOEU is 
increasingly recognized as a distinct subtype of LOE that may warrant a targeted 
diagnostic approach due to the potential involvement of autoimmune and 
neurodegenerative mechanisms. There is a pressing need for focused 
cross-sectional or prospective multicenter studies to refine the diagnostic 
strategies for LOE, particularly for LOEU, and to enhance the characterization 
of its clinical and etiological features.
PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY: After age 50, epilepsy rates rise, often linked to brain 
changes but sometimes with no clear cause (LOEU). We surveyed Italian epilepsy 
specialists and found that routine EEG and MRI are widely used, yet about 20% of 
cases require advanced tests to identify rare or autoimmune causes. Our findings 
will inform patient-focused diagnostic and treatment guidelines and underscore 
the need for standardized care pathways and further research in adult-onset 
epilepsy.

© 2025 The Author(s). Epilepsia Open published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1002/epi4.70131
PMID: 40931963


79. Lab Chip. 2025 Oct 7;25(20):5203-5220. doi: 10.1039/d5lc00067j.

Concussive injuries induce neuronal stress-dependent tau mislocalization to 
dendritic spines with acrolein and functional network alteration in 
TBI-on-a-chip.

Rogers EA(1)(2)(3)(4), Diorio TC(1), Beauclair T(1)(2)(3), Martinez J(1)(2)(3), 
Mufti SJ(1)(2)(3), Kim D(1), Krishnan N(1)(2)(3), Rayz V(1)(5), Shi R(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, 
IN 47907, USA. vrayz@purdue.edu.
(2)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, Purdue 
University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.
(3)Center for Paralysis Research, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, 
USA.
(4)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, 46033, USA.
(5)School of Mechanical Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 
47907, USA.

Traumatic brain injuries (TBIs) are a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
and share several important pathological features including the development of 
neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) of tau protein. While this association is well 
established, the underlying pathogenesis is poorly defined and current treatment 
options remain limited, necessitating novel methods and approaches. In response 
we developed "TBI-on-a-chip", an in vitro trauma model utilizing murine cortical 
networks on microelectrode arrays (MEAs), capable of reproducing clinically 
relevant impact injuries while providing simultaneous morphological and 
electrophysiological readout. Here, we incorporate a digital twin of the 
TBI-on-a-chip model to resolve cell-scale mechanical deformation via shear 
stresses and demonstrate direct connections between impact forces with 
aberrations in tau and synaptic deficits, and correlate these changes with 
elevations of oxidative stress, a suspected key contributor to both trauma and 
neurodegeneration. This multi-disciplinary investigation combines computational 
modeling, electrophysiology, and imaging, to explore tau mislocalization and 
functional deficits as a function of force, in the context of a potential 
mechanism via acrolein. We hope that this novel, integrative approach will help 
improve our mechanistic understanding of trauma and neurodegeneration, solo and 
in concert, and ultimately assist in generating more effective treatment 
options.

DOI: 10.1039/d5lc00067j
PMCID: PMC12423756
PMID: 40931717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The corresponding author Riyi Shi is the 
co-founder of Neuro Vigor, a start-up company with business interests of 
developing effective therapies for CNS neurodegenerative diseases and trauma. 
There are no conflicts of interest for the remaining authors.


80. J Neurochem. 2025 Sep;169(9):e70228. doi: 10.1111/jnc.70228.

14-3-3 Proteins Negatively Regulate Microglial Activation via Inhibition of the 
NF-κB Pathway.

Stone WJ(1), Pair FS(1), Ekkatine R(1), Gannon M(1), Scholz K(1), Pattanayak 
R(1), Syed R(1), Yacoubian TA(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Neurodegeneration and Experimental Therapeutics, Department of 
Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

Microglia, the resident immune cells of the central nervous system (CNS), are 
involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), and Parkinson's disease (PD). 
14-3-3 proteins act as molecular hubs to regulate protein-protein interactions, 
which are involved in numerous cellular functions, including cellular signaling, 
protein folding, and apoptosis. We previously revealed decreased 14-3-3 levels 
in the brains of human subjects with neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, 
we examined the role of 14-3-3 proteins in the microglial proinflammatory 
response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We found that LPS treatment induced 14-3-3 
protein levels within 6 hours. With the use of BV02 and dimeric 
fourteen-three-three peptide inhibitor (difopein), a small molecule and peptide 
inhibitor of 14-3-3 protein-protein interactions, respectively, we found a 
dramatic increase in microglial activation markers in both immortalized BV-2 
microglial cells and in primary mouse microglia. Both 14-3-3 inhibitors also 
increased LPS-induced microglial phagocytosis, lysosomal proteolysis, and 
cytokine release in primary microglia. In contrast, chemotaxis toward the 
cellular damage stimulus, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), was diminished with 
14-3-3 inhibition. Inhibition of 14-3-3's hastened LPS-induced activation of the 
nuclear factor-kB (NF-κB) signaling pathway, as measured by its nuclear 
translocation. 14-3-3's reduced activation of the NF-κB pathway by binding and 
inhibiting the release of IκB kinase beta (IKKβ). Disruption of 14-3-3's binding 
to IKKβ with BV02 or difopein increased the downstream phosphorylation and 
degradation of the inhibitor of NF-κB alpha (IκBα). Collectively, our findings 
suggest 14-3-3 proteins play a critical role in the regulation of inflammatory 
responses in microglia and may serve as potential targets for immunotherapy of 
CNS diseases.

© 2025 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.70228
PMCID: PMC12435920
PMID: 40931680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Neuroimmunomodulation. 2025 Aug 20:1-33. doi: 10.1159/000548021. Online ahead
of  print.

Neuroinflammation across the spectrum of neurodegenerative diseases: mechanisms 
and therapeutic frontiers.

Alemán-Villa KM, Armienta-Rojas DA, Camberos-Barraza J, Rábago-Monzón ÁR, 
Camacho-Zamora A, Osuna-Ramos JF, Magaña-Gómez JA, Guadrón-Llanos AM, 
Calderón-Zamora L, Norzagaray-Valenzuela CD, Valdez-Flores MA, Picos-Cárdenas 
VJ, De la Herrán-Arita AK.

Neuroinflammation has emerged as a central and dynamic component of the 
pathophysiology underlying a wide range of neurodegenerative disorders, 
including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis, Huntington's disease, and multiple sclerosis. Far from being a 
secondary consequence of neuronal damage, inflammatory processes (mediated by 
microglia, astrocytes, peripheral immune cells, and associated molecular 
mediators) actively shape disease onset, progression, and symptomatology. This 
review synthesizes current knowledge on the cellular and molecular mechanisms 
that govern neuroinflammatory responses, emphasizing both shared and 
disease-specific pathways. We examine how innate and adaptive immune 
interactions contribute to neuronal vulnerability and neurodegenerative 
cascades, and explore the reciprocal communication between systemic and central 
immune compartments. Particular attention is given to emerging therapeutic 
strategies aimed at modulating neuroinflammation, including immunomodulatory 
drugs, glial-targeted interventions, and novel delivery platforms. By 
integrating findings across disciplines and disease models, we outline key 
translational challenges and propose future directions to harness 
neuroinflammation as a therapeutic target in the era of precision medicine. 
Ultimately, a deeper understanding of neuroimmune dynamics holds promise for 
redefining both the diagnosis and treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.

The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000548021
PMID: 40931498


82. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2025 Sep 10;13(1):190. doi:
10.1186/s40478-025-02096-8.

Stabilizing the retromer complex rescues synaptic dysfunction and endosomal 
trafficking deficits in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model.

Ramonet D(1), Daerr A(2), Hallbeck M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences and Department of Clinical 
Pathology, Linköping University, 58185, Linköping, Sweden. David.Ramonet@liu.se.
(2)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences and Department of Clinical 
Pathology, Linköping University, 58185, Linköping, Sweden.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences and Department of Clinical 
Pathology, Linköping University, 58185, Linköping, Sweden. 
Martin.Hallbeck@liu.se.

Disruptions in synaptic transmission and plasticity are early hallmarks of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Endosomal trafficking, mediated by the retromer 
complex, is essential for intracellular protein sorting, including the 
regulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing. The VPS35 subunit, a 
key cargo-recognition component of the retromer, has been implicated in 
neurodegenerative diseases, with mutations such as L625P linked to early-onset 
AD. Despite growing evidence for retromer dysfunction in AD, its role in 
synaptic pathology and neuroinflammation remains incompletely understood. Here, 
we investigate the acute molecular effects of retromer stabilization in the 
5xFAD mouse model of AD using the pharmacological chaperones R55 and R33, 
previously identified to enhance VPS35 stability. Following intracranial 
stereotaxic injections, we performed transcriptomic profiling, quantitative 
histology, and immunohistochemistry to assess synaptic function, 
neuroinflammation, and endosomal trafficking. Our findings reveal that retromer 
stabilization reverses multiple AD-associated molecular changes. R55 treatment 
significantly reduced Aβ-related pathology, normalized synaptic gene expression, 
and restored long-term potentiation (LTP)-associated pathways, including Gria1 
(AMPA receptors), Grip1, and semaphorin/plexin signaling. Additionally, retromer 
stabilization counteracted dysregulated calcium signaling by modulating Ryr2 and 
L-type calcium channel expression. Beyond synaptic effects, we observed broad 
transcriptional and structural changes in the endosomal system. Notably, R55 
treatment decreased VPS13 family gene expression, implicated in membrane contact 
site regulation, while increasing RAB7 levels, suggesting enhanced 
late-endosomal recycling. VPS35-positive vesicles were redistributed away from 
the nucleus, indicating restored intracellular trafficking dynamics. In the 
neuroinflammatory domain, retromer stabilization modulated microglial 
activation, shifting towards a profile characterized by balanced 
pro-inflammatory (Il1, Nfkb2) and anti-inflammatory (Il4r, Il13ra1, Stat6) 
markers, consistent with disease-associated microglia (DAM) phenotypes. 
Together, these findings demonstrate that retromer dysfunction contributes to 
key AD pathologies, including synaptic dysfunction and neuroinflammation, and 
that pharmacological retromer stabilization can restore cellular homeostasis. 
Given that 5xFAD mice lack direct VPS35 mutations, our results suggest that 
retromer-targeting strategies may be applicable to both familial and sporadic 
AD, offering a promising therapeutic avenue for modifying disease progression.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-025-02096-8
PMCID: PMC12424221
PMID: 40931359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: All procedures 
and working protocols were approved by the animal ethical committee of Linköping 
University. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


83. Nat Aging. 2025 Sep 10. doi: 10.1038/s43587-025-00956-5. Online ahead of
print.

Senescent-like border-associated macrophages regulate cognitive aging via 
migrasome-mediated induction of paracrine senescence in microglia.

Hu M(#)(1)(2), Kang X(#)(1), Liu Z(#)(1), Wang S(1), Liu S(1), Li C(1), Lu D(1), 
Qin Q(1), Liu Y(1), Yi H(1), Yuan L(1), Liu Q(3), Lu Z(4), Cai W(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mental and Neurological Disease Research Center, the 
Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Function and Disease, Guangzhou, 
China.
(3)Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in 
South China, Guangzhou, China. liuq9@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Neurology, Mental and Neurological Disease Research Center, the 
Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China. 
luzhq@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Neurology, Mental and Neurological Disease Research Center, the 
Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China. 
caiw29@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(6)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Function and Disease, Guangzhou, 
China. caiw29@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Nat Aging. 2025 Sep 30. doi: 10.1038/s43587-025-00994-z.

Aging is a major risk factor for various neurological disorders, including 
Alzheimer's disease, and is associated with the accumulation of senescent cells, 
which can themselves propagate the senescence process through paracrine 
signaling. Migrasomes are organelles that form during cellular migration, detach 
from parent cells and mediate intercellular communication. Here we demonstrate 
that border-associated macrophages (BAMs) acquire senescence-associated 
properties during early brain aging, possibly due to prolonged exposure to 
amyloid beta. Senescent-like BAMs show elevated production of migrasomes, which 
convey senescence-associated signals including the apoptosis inhibitor of 
macrophage to neighboring cells. We show that microglia are prominent recipients 
of senescent-like BAM-derived migrasomes, and that through activation of CD16 in 
recipient cells, the apoptosis inhibitor of macrophage inhibits apoptosis and 
promotes senescence induction. Blocking migrasome induction in senescent-like 
BAMs through treatment with Tspan4-targeting siRNA-encapsulated liposomes 
ameliorates cognitive deficits in aged mice. Our findings suggest that 
migrasomes are potent vehicles of senescence-regulatory signals and represent a 
promising target for senomorphic therapy.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s43587-025-00956-5
PMID: 40931113

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


84. Ageing Res Rev. 2025 Sep 8;112:102894. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102894. Online
 ahead of print.

The role of the gut microbiota in neuropsychiatric disorders and therapy.

Zhang F(1), Ding K(2), Zhang LM(3), Liu DY(3), Dong X(1), Wang MN(3), Zhou 
FL(2), Sun YW(2), Zhang WK(4), Yan Y(5), He J(6), Xu JK(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences & School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing 100029, People's Republic of China; 
Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences & Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan 
Friendship Hospital, Beijing 100029, People's Republic of China.
(2)Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences & Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan 
Friendship Hospital, Beijing 100029, People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Life Sciences & School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing 100029, People's Republic of China.
(4)Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences & Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan 
Friendship Hospital, Beijing 100029, People's Republic of China. Electronic 
address: cpuzwk@163.com.
(5)Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences & Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan 
Friendship Hospital, Beijing 100029, People's Republic of China. Electronic 
address: yy_imm@126.com.
(6)Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences & Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan 
Friendship Hospital, Beijing 100029, People's Republic of China. Electronic 
address: 15010297582@126.com.
(7)School of Life Sciences & School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing 100029, People's Republic of China. 
Electronic address: xjkbucm@163.com.

The vast microbial community residing in the gut is known as the gut microbiota 
(GM). Alterations in the compositional equilibrium of the GM, a phenomenon 
termed GM dysbiosis, have been increasingly associated with the pathogenesis of 
various diseases, particularly neuropsychiatric disorders. The 
microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) serves as a bidirectional communication system 
that connects the gut to the brain. Notably, several prevalent neuropsychiatric 
disorders, including depression, Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Parkinson's 
disease (PD), collectively affect over one billion individuals globally. 
Emerging scientific evidence has consistently demonstrated the presence of GM 
dysbiosis in various neuropsychiatric disorders, suggesting a potential 
etiological role of GM in these conditions through MGBA-mediated mechanisms. In 
this comprehensive review, we systematically discussed the GM and MGBA, and 
presented evidence from both animal and human studies that highlighted the 
significance of GM in the occurrence and development of neuropsychiatric 
disorders. Subsequently, we emphasized the potential impact of GM and its 
metabolites on neuropsychiatric disorders. Next, we summarized the drugs used to 
treat diseases by regulating the GM. Finally, we proposed strategies to 
ameliorate the malignant progression of neuropsychiatric disorders by 
manipulating the composition of the GM. These strategies encompass the 
application of probiotics, prebiotics and synbiotics, postbiotics, fecal 
microbiota transplantation (FMT), and dietary interventions. Collectively, 
targeted GM therapy has the potential to be an effective treatment for 
neuropsychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102894
PMID: 40930236

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors of 
this article declare that they have no potential conflict of interest with the 
research, writing, or publication of this article.


85. Neuro Endocrinol Lett. 2025 Sep 2;46(2):59-69.

Circadian Rhythm Disruption and Sleep Disorders in Alzheimer's Disease: 
Mechanistic Insights and Therapeutic Potentials.

Liu K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Life Sciences, Lancaster University, UK.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia worldwide, with 
significant cognitive and behavioural impairments that devastate individuals and 
their families. Cohort-level findings, demonstrate the broader population-level 
implications of Sleep and Circadian Rhythm Disruption (SCRD) in AD and 
underscore the need for early interventions, emphasizing the importance of 
timely action. However, the mechanism remains unclear. SCRD impairs the 
glymphatic system, which is responsible for the clearance of neurotoxic proteins 
such as amyloid-β and tau during slow-wave sleep, accelerating 
neurodegeneration. Moreover, SCRD exacerbates neuroinflammation by disrupting 
the circadian regulation of immune responses, mainly through the dysregulation 
of microglial activity and pro-inflammatory cytokine release, which further 
promotes neuronal damage. This review summarizes the current understanding of 
SCRD in AD, outlining the mechanistic links, evidence from animal models, and 
emerging treatments targeting SCRD in AD, as well as promising new drug targets 
emerging from preclinical studies. Circadian modulation may represent a novel 
therapeutic avenue for AD.

PMID: 40929704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. PLoS One. 2025 Sep 10;20(9):e0331325. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0331325. 
eCollection 2025.

Global transcriptional analysis of human FHs 74 Int intestinal epithelial cells 
after exposure to advanced glycation end products.

Schwertner K(1)(2), Basílio J(2), Hoffmann-Sommergruber K(2), Ellinger I(2), 
Geiselhart S(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cancer Research, Medical University of Vienna & Comprehensive 
Cancer Center (CCC), Vienna, Austria.
(2)Institute of Pathophysiology and Allergy Research, Center for 
Pathophysiology, Infectiology & Immunology, Medical University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria.
(3)Division of Pharmacology, Department of Pharmacology, Physiology and 
Microbiology, Karl Landsteiner University of Health Sciences, Krems, Austria.

Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and reactive intermediates, such as 
methylglyoxal, are formed during thermal processing of foods and have been 
implicated in the pathogenesis of a series of chronic inflammatory diseases. 
AGEs are thought to directly interact with the intestinal epithelium upon 
ingestion of thermally processed foods, but their effects on intestinal 
epithelial cells are poorly understood. This study investigated transcriptomic 
changes in human intestinal epithelial FHs 74 Int cells after exposure to 
AGE-modified human serum proteins (AGE-HS), S100A12, a known RAGE ligand, and 
unmodified human serum proteins (HS). In contrast to previous studies employing 
cancer cell lines, RNA sequencing of FHs 74 Int cells treated with AGE-HS did 
not reveal transcriptional changes associated with increased proliferation, 
increased expression of tight junction proteins or proinflammatory responses. 
Surprisingly, neither AGE-HS nor S100A12 treatments resulted in significant 
differential gene expression at standard analysis thresholds, while unmodified 
HS induced minor transcriptional changes. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed 
that AGE-HS treatment induced downregulation of gene sets linked to MYC, 
interferon responses, and oxidative phosphorylation, as well as pathways related 
to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's 
disease, paralleling some effects observed with S100A12. This is the first 
global transcriptomic analysis of FHs 74 Int cells and the first unbiased 
investigation of signaling pathway alterations in intestinal epithelial cells 
exposed to AGEs. In contrast to previous studies, this analysis did not reveal 
any significantly differentially expressed genes, thus challenging previous 
reports of robust AGE-induced inflammatory and proliferative effects and 
emphasizing the importance of an isolated experimental setting and rigorous 
endotoxin testing.

Copyright: © 2025 Schwertner et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0331325
PMCID: PMC12422490
PMID: 40929163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


87. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2025 Sep 19;80(10):glaf194. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glaf194.

Racial/ethnic differences in the association of lifestyle factors with 
biological aging in NHANES, 1999-2018.

Arif T(1), Thomas A(2)(3), Belsky DW(4)(5), Gu Y(2)(3)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, 
New York, United States.
(2)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University, New York, New York, United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, New York, United 
States.
(4)Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center, Columbia University, New York, New 
York, United States.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Joseph P. Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, New York, New York, United States.
(6)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Columbia University, New York, New York, 
United States.

Racial and ethnic disparities in healthy aging represent an emerging public 
health crisis that will only grow worse as our population grows older. Healthy 
lifestyle behaviors are proposed as a key strategy to promote healthy aging. 
However, the potential of lifestyle interventions to address aging health 
disparities is uncertain. We analyzed data from 42 625 adult participants (aged 
20-85 years) participating in National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 
(NHANES), 1999-2018 to evaluate relationships among healthy lifestyle behaviors 
and biological aging across White, Black, and Hispanic-identifying groups. We 
measured healthy lifestyle as adherence to a Mediterranean diet and level of 
leisure-time physical activity using established methods. We measured healthy 
aging using the PhenoAge biological age algorithm applied to blood chemistry 
data. We tested associations within each race/ethnic identity group and compared 
associations across groups using regression models with interaction terms. We 
found that within each race/ethnic identity group, greater adherence to a 
Mediterranean diet and higher levels of leisure-time physical activity were 
associated with younger biological age, independent of demographic and 
socioeconomic confounders, obesity, and smoking. However, these associations 
were stronger among White- as compared to non-Hispanic Black- and 
Hispanic-identifying adults. Results suggest that healthy lifestyle factors are 
likely to promote healthy aging across the population. However, lifestyle 
factors alone may not be sufficient to completely address race/ethnic 
disparities in healthy aging. Future studies will need to investigate additional 
ways to reduce racial and ethnic disparities in healthy aging.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glaf194
PMCID: PMC12483585
PMID: 40929051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: D.W.B. is an inventor of the Duke University and 
University of Otago invention DunedinPACE, which is licensed to TruDiagnostic. 
D.W.B. serves as the Consulting Chief Scientific Officer and Scientific Advisory 
Board Chair of the private company BellSant and on the Scientific Advisory 
Boards of the Hooke Clinic and X-Prize Healthspan. D.W.B. serves on the 
editorial board of the Biological Sciences Section of the Journal of Gerontology 
Series A. All other authors declare no conflicts of interest.


88. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep 10:13872877251375430. doi:
10.1177/13872877251375430.  Online ahead of print.

A real-world study on the safety and efficacy of therapeutic plasma exchange in 
patients with Alzheimer's disease.

Taragano F(1)(2), Seinhart D(1)(2), Epstein P(1)(3), Sylvestre V(1), Barañano 
C(1), Otero Castro V(1), Sánchez V(1), Kilstein A(1), González R(1), 
Franco-Trecu V(4), Costa-Urrutia P(5).

Author information:
(1)Therapeutic Plasma Exchange in Alzheimer's Section, Research Unit at Clínica 
Nuestra Señora de las Nieves, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Dementia Section of the Argentine Association of Psychiatrists, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.
(3)Hemotherapy and Transfusional Medicine Service, Carlos Durand General Acute 
Hospital, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(4)Department of Ecology and Evolution, Faculty of Sciences, Universidad de la 
República, Uruguay, Montevideo, Uruguay.
(5)Paula Costa-Urrutia Medical Affairs, Terumo BCT, Edificio Think MVD, 
Montevideo, Uruguay.

BackgroundTherapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) with albumin replacement has emerged 
as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The AMBAR trial showed 
that TPE could slow cognitive and functional decline, along with changes in core 
and inflammatory biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid.ObjectiveTo evaluate the 
safety and effectiveness of TPE in a real-world setting in Argentina.MethodsFrom 
2022 to 2024, 32 patients with mild-to-moderate AD received TPE and were 
compared to a historical control group (2008-2018, n = 194) matched for 
inclusion criteria and cognitive assessments. The protocol included six weekly 
intensive sessions followed by at least 10 monthly maintenance sessions. 
Outcomes were measured using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), and tests 
of memory, language, executive function, and attention. Linear models were used 
for analysis.ResultsPatients had a mean age of 72.1 years; 42.4% were female. 
Baseline MMSE scores ranged from 15 to 26. A total of 514 procedures were 
performed; 81.5% were uneventful. Mild-to-moderate adverse events occurred in 
18.5% of sessions, mainly related to venipuncture; no severe events were 
reported. Mean plasma exchange volumes were 88.2% and 49.8% of estimated plasma 
volume during the intensive and maintenance phases, respectively. TPE 
significantly slowed MMSE decline (45% less than controls, p < 0.001) and 
reduced memory deterioration (88% less in immediate recall, p < 0.001; 74% in 
delayed recall, p = 0.04). Other domains were also better 
preserved.ConclusionsTPE appears to be a safe and effective intervention for 
slowing cognitive decline in AD, supporting the AMBAR findings.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251375430
PMID: 40928812


89. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Sep 10. doi: 10.1007/s10787-025-01926-4. Online
ahead  of print.

Targeting NLRP3 inflammasome with curcumin: mechanisms and therapeutic promise 
in chronic inflammation.

Pandey SN(1), Babu MA(2), Goyal K(3), Menon SV(4), Ray S(5), Kaur M(6), Sharma 
S(7), Rana M(8), Rekha A(9), Ali H(10), Singh SK(11)(12), Gupta G(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Teerthanker Mahaveer College of Pharmacy, 
Teerthanker Mahaveer University, Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, 244001, India.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, GLA UNIVERSITY, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, 
281406, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Graphic Era (Deemed to Be University), Clement 
Town, Dehradun, 248002, India.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, School of Sciences, JAIN (Deemed to 
Be University), Bangalore, Karnataka, India.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, IMS and SUM Hospital, Siksha 'O' Anusandhan 
(Deemed to Be University), Bhubaneswar, Odisha, 751003, India.
(6)Department of Allied Healthcare and Sciences, Vivekananda Global University, 
Jaipur, Rajasthan, 303012, India.
(7)Department of Pharmacy, Chandigarh Pharmacy College, Chandigarh Group of 
Colleges-Jhanjeri, Mohali, Punjab, 140307, India.
(8)Uttaranchal Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Uttaranchal University, 
Dehradun, India.
(9)Dr DY Patil Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre, Pimpri, Pune, 
India.
(10)Center for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical College, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Saveetha University, Chennai, 
India.
(11)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
Punjab, 144411, India.
(12)Sunway Biofunctional Molecules Discovery Centre (SBMDC), School of Medical 
and Life Sciences, Sunway University, Sunway, Subang Jaya, Malaysia.
(13)Centre for Research Impact & Outcome, Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara 
University, Rajpura, Punjab, 140401, India. Gaurav.gupta@chitkara.edu.in.
(14)Centre of Medical and Bio-Allied Health Sciences Research, Ajman University, 
Ajman, United Arab Emirates. Gaurav.gupta@chitkara.edu.in.

The NOD‑like receptor family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome is a 
key molecular complex that amplifies inflammatory cascades by maturing 
interleukin‑1 beta (IL-1β) and interleukin‑18 (IL-18) and inducing pyroptosis. 
It serves as a major driver and co-driver of numerous diseases associated with 
chronic inflammation. Dysregulated NLRP3 activation contributes to the 
progression of disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel 
disease, neurodegenerative diseases and atherosclerosis. Curcumin, a natural 
polyphenol derived from Curcuma longa, offers a promising approach to inhibit 
NLRP3-induced inflammation owing to its multi-targeted actions and excellent 
safety profile. Preclinical models have demonstrated that curcumin inhibits 
nuclear factor kappa‑light‑chain‑enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) 
signaling, reduces mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, and 
suppresses caspase-1 activation and apoptosis-associated speck-like protein 
containing a caspase recruitment domain (ASC) assembly, thereby inhibiting 
inflammasome activation. Curcumin has successfully prevented IL-1β-induced 
biological effects, tissue damage, and clinical manifestations in models of 
arthritis, colitis, and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition, advanced 
nanoformulations and structural analogs have enhanced their bioavailability and 
therapeutic reach. Here, we present a mechanistically focused, curcumin-oriented 
review synthesizing current knowledge on the NLRP3 inflammasome and its role in 
chronic inflammatory diseases. We also critically evaluated nanoformulations, 
curcumin analogs, and combination therapies and integrated evidence from 
rheumatologic, gastrointestinal, neurodegenerative, metabolic, and 
cardiovascular models. Furthermore, we explored the molecular mechanisms 
underlying the therapeutic effects of curcumin and highlighted the challenges of 
its clinical translation, offering insights for designing precision 
anti-inflammasome strategies to advance inflammation therapeutics.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01926-4
PMID: 40928616

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: Not applicable. Informed 
consent: None. Research involving humans and animals statement: None.


90. Drugs Aging. 2025 Oct;42(10):963-974. doi: 10.1007/s40266-025-01228-y. Epub
2025  Sep 10.

Using Medication Dispensation Data to Identify Clusters with Similar Prescribing 
Patterns in Older Adults Living with Dementia.

Emdin A(1), Stukel TA(2)(3)(4), Bethell J(2)(3)(5), Wang X(2), Iaboni A(5)(6), 
Bronskill SE(7)(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, V1 06, 2075 
Bayview Avenue, Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, Canada.
(2)ICES, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)KITE-Toronto Rehabilitation Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, 
ON, Canada.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(7)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, V1 06, 2075 
Bayview Avenue, Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, Canada. susan.bronskill@ices.on.ca.
(8)ICES, Toronto, ON, Canada. susan.bronskill@ices.on.ca.
(9)Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada. susan.bronskill@ices.on.ca.
(10)Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
susan.bronskill@ices.on.ca.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Older adults living with dementia are a heterogeneous 
group, which can make studying optimal medication management challenging. 
Unsupervised machine learning is a group of computing methods that rely on 
unlabeled data-that is, where the algorithm itself is discovering patterns 
without the need for researchers to label the data with a known outcome. These 
methods may help us to better understand complex prescribing patterns in this 
population. The objective of our study was to use clustering methods to 
determine whether common prescribing clusters exist in older adults newly 
identified as living with dementia in Ontario, Canada and to examine the 
association between individual clinical and demographic characteristics and 
those clusters.
METHODS: Data were derived from population-based health administrative 
databases, including medication dispensation data. The hierarchical clustering 
algorithm started with each individual and merged individuals with the most 
similar prescribing patterns into a group, continuing this process stepwise 
until only one cluster remained. The optimal number of clusters was selected 
through clinical review and fit statistics. We examined the association between 
individual characteristics and prescribing clusters using bivariate multinomial 
models.
RESULTS: In 99,046 individuals living with new dementia, we identified six 
prevalent clusters of individuals with common medication subclass patterns: 
higher dispensation of angiotensin-converting enzyme-specific cardiovascular 
(22.6% of the population), central nervous system-active (21.3%), hypothyroidism 
(22.9%), respiratory (3.9%), and angiotensin receptor blocker-specific 
cardiovascular (6.1%), as well as a group with lower dispensation of medications 
in general (23.1%). Specific demographic, clinical, and health-service-use 
characteristics were associated with assigned clusters.
CONCLUSIONS: Within individuals living with dementia, prescribing clusters 
reflected meaningful differences in clinical and demographic characteristics. 
The results suggest that applying clustering methods to pharmacological data may 
be useful in estimating complex comorbidity patterns to better describe a 
heterogeneous population of people living with dementia. Future studies could 
examine whether these clusters better predict health service use, disease 
progression, or medication-related adverse events compared with other measures.

Plain Language Summary: Older adults living with dementia are often prescribed 
many medications to manage both dementia and other health conditions that exist 
at the same time. We were interested in exploring whether unsupervised machine 
learning methods would identify groups of people who were taking similar 
medications and applied a computing algorithm called hiearachial clustering to a 
dataset of medications that had been dispensed to older adults living with 
dementia in Ontario, Canada. This resulted in six prescribing clusters which 
reflect underlying differences in comorbidity profiles.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-025-01228-y
PMID: 40928601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Funding: This study was supported 
by ICES, which is funded by an annual grant from the Ontario Ministry of Health 
(MOH) and the Ministry of Long-Term Care (MLTC). This project also received 
support through funding from Dalla Lana School of Public Health Data Science 
Seed Fund and the Canadian Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA) 
Synapse Funding, including the Training and Capacity Building Program, the 
Engagement of People with Lived Experience of Dementia Program, and the 
Knowledge Translation and Exchange Program. The Training and Capacity Building 
Program is part of the CCNA, which is supported by a grant from the Canadian 
Institutes of Health Research, with funding from the Institute of Indigenous 
Peoples’ Health, the Alzheimer Society of Canada, and the Canadian Nurses 
Foundation. The Engagement of People with Lived Experience of Dementia Program 
and the Knowledge Translation and Exchange Program are part of the CCNA, which 
is supported by a grant from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, with 
funding from the Alzheimer Society of Canada. A.E. is funded through the 
Alzheimer Society of Canada Research Program Doctoral Award. This document used 
data adapted from the Statistics Canada Postal CodeOM Conversion File, which is 
based on data licensed from Canada Post Corporation, and/or data adapted from 
the Ontario Ministry of Health Postal Code Conversion File, which contains data 
copied under license from ©Canada Post Corporation and Statistics Canada. Parts 
of this material are based on data and/or information compiled and provided by 
CIHI and the Ontario Ministry of Health. The analyses, conclusions, opinions, 
and statements expressed herein are solely those of the authors and do not 
reflect those of the funding or data sources; no endorsement is intended or 
should be inferred. We thank IQVIA Solutions Canada Inc. for use of their Drug 
Information File. Funding sources are listed on the title page as per journal 
requirements. The funders had no role in the design, methods, subject 
recruitment, data collections, analysis, and preparation of the paper. Conflicts 
of Interest: The authors do not have any financial or personal conflicts of 
interest to disclose. Availability of Data and Materials: The dataset from this 
study is held securely in coded form at ICES. While legal data sharing 
agreements between ICES and data providers (e.g., healthcare organizations and 
government) prohibit ICES from making the dataset publicly available, access may 
be granted to those who meet pre-specified criteria for confidential access, 
available at www.ices.on.ca/DAS (email: das@ices.on.ca). The full dataset 
creation plan and underlying analytic code are available from the authors upon 
request, understanding that the computer programs may rely upon coding templates 
or macros that are unique to ICES and are therefore either inaccessible or may 
require modification. Ethics Approval: The use of the data in this project is 
authorized under Section 45 of Ontario’s Personal Health Information Protection 
Act (PHIPA) and does not require review by a research ethics board; however, we 
acquired research ethics board approval from University of Toronto. Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Code 
Availability: Not available but packages used in the analysis are referenced. 
Authors’ Contributions: A.E., S.B., J.B., T.S., and A.I. formulated the idea for 
the paper. All authors were involved in the study concept and design. A.E. and 
S.B. were involved in acquisition of data. X.W. assisted with data management. 
A.E. completed all statistical analysis and initial manuscript draft. All 
authors were involved in the interpretation of data and reviewed and revised the 
manuscript.


91. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Sep;21(9):e70348. doi: 10.1002/alz.70348.

Investment in Alzheimer's disease research for the next generation of adults 
with Down syndrome will yield health benefits for future generations.

Weden MM(1), Frank L(2), Dick AW(1), Wang Z(1), Peschin S(3), Bovenkamp DE(4), 
Rossi SL(4), Sciullo D(5), Hillerstrom H(6), Fisher RA(6).

Author information:
(1)RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, California, USA.
(2)National Alliance for Caregiving, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(3)Alliance for Aging Research, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(4)BrightFocus Foundation, Clarksburg, Maryland, USA.
(5)National Down Syndrome Society, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(6)LuMind IDSC Foundation, Woburn, Massachusetts, USA.

Recent innovations in Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment highlight critical gaps 
in knowledge about how to support healthy aging of adults with Down syndrome 
(DS). RAND researchers updated demographic and epidemiological evidence about 
the DS population to assess the impact of increased investment in treatment 
innovations for DS-associated Alzheimer's disease (DS-AD). They estimated life 
expectancy at birth in 2020 to be 55 years, with ≈ 5 years of DS-AD. They found 
that the results of investment were dramatic. Between 2020 and 2070, adult years 
of life are expected to increase by 5 years without any increase in unhealthy 
years of life with DS-AD. Caregiving hours for individuals with DS-AD are 
expected to be reduced by 40%, which will generate large annual savings. The new 
evidence underscores the magnitude of the impact that investment in DS-AD 
treatments could have for individuals with DS, their families, and caregivers. 
HIGHLIGHTS: Evidence is sparse about treatment for Down syndrome (DS)-associated 
Alzheimer's disease (DS-AD) and healthy aging of DS adults. This population 
simulation model estimates DS-AD caregiving costs at ≈ $1 billion per year. 
DS-AD innovations could increase life expectancy by 5 years and reduce 
caregiving by 40% by 2070. This better forecasting can improve policy and 
service planning. DS-AD research investment could yield dramatic gains for 
individuals and families.

© 2025 RAND Corporation. Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70348
PMCID: PMC12421411
PMID: 40928009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


92. Int J Plant Anim Environ Sci. 2025;15(3):90-114. doi:
10.26502/ijpaes.4490180.  Epub 2025 Aug 4.

Plants, Pills, and the Brain: Exploring Phytochemicals and Neurological 
Medicines.

Aggarwal A(1), Rajalekshmi R(2), Aggarwal A(3), Agrawal DK(2).

Author information:
(1)Loveless Academic Magnet Program, Montgomery, AL, USA.
(2)Department of Translational Research, College of Osteopathic Medicine of the 
Pacific, Western University of Health Sciences, Pomona, CA 91766, USA.
(3)Department of Biology and Environmental Sciences, College of Science, Auburn 
University at Montgomery, Montgomery, AL 36117, USA.

Neurological disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
epilepsy, spinal cord injuries, and traumatic brain injuries, represent 
substantial global health challenges due to their chronic and often progressive 
nature. While allopathic medicine offers a range of pharmacological 
interventions aimed at managing symptoms and mitigating disease progression, it 
is accompanied by limitations, including adverse side effects, the development 
of drug resistance, and incomplete efficacy. In parallel, 
phytochemicals-bioactive compounds derived from plants-are receiving increased 
attention for their potential neuroprotective, antioxidant, and 
anti-inflammatory properties. This review will explore the therapeutic landscape 
of neurological diseases by providing a comprehensive overview of prevalent 
conditions and the current allopathic treatments available. Furthermore, this 
review will investigate specific phytochemicals, including flavonoids, 
alkaloids, and terpenoids, that exhibit promise in modulating various disease 
pathways. Emphasis will be placed on the interactions between plant-derived 
compounds and prescription medications, highlighting both potential synergistic 
effects and possible adverse interactions. A thorough understanding of these 
interactions is essential for the development of integrative treatment 
approaches that enhance therapeutic efficacy while minimizing harm. By bridging 
traditional herbal medicine with contemporary pharmacotherapy, this review aims 
to promote a more holistic perspective on the management of neurological 
diseases, while also encouraging further research into safe and effective 
combinatory therapies.

DOI: 10.26502/ijpaes.4490180
PMCID: PMC12416909
PMID: 40927759

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have read the 
manuscript and declare no conflict of interest. No writing assistance was 
utilized in the production of this manuscript.


93. Alzheimers Dement (Amst). 2025 Sep 7;17(3):e70179. doi: 10.1002/dad2.70179. 
eCollection 2025 Jul-Sep.

Preclinical dementia rating scores are associated with plasma phosphorylated 
tau-217.

Huang Q(1)(2), Jonaitis EM(2)(3), Studer RL(2)(4), Wilson R(4)(5), Reyes 
RER(4)(5), Zetterberg H(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12), Du L(2)(13)(14), Hermann 
BP(2)(15), Johnson SC(2)(4)(5), Langhough RE(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational Studies Purdue University College of Education West 
Lafayette Indiana USA.
(2)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute University of Wisconsin-Madison School of 
Medicine and Public Health Madison Wisconsin USA.
(3)School of Nursing University of Wisconsin-Madison Madison Wisconsin USA.
(4)Department of Medicine University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine and 
Public Health Madison Wisconsin USA.
(5)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center University of Wisconsin-Madison 
School of Medicine and Public Health Madison Wisconsin USA.
(6)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health Madison Wisconsin USA.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg Mölndal 
Sweden.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory Sahlgrenska University Hospital Mölndal 
Sweden.
(9)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease UCL Institute of Neurology London UK.
(10)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL London UK.
(11)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases InnoHK Hong Kong China.
(12)Centre for Brain Research Indian Institute of Science Bangalore Karnataka 
India.
(13)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center Rush University Medical Center Chicago 
Illinois USA.
(14)Department of Neurological Sciences Rush Medical College Chicago Illinois 
USA.
(15)Department of Neurology School of Medicine and Public Health University of 
Wisconsin-Madison Madison Wisconsin USA.

INTRODUCTION: Simple screening tools are critical for assessing Alzheimer's 
disease (AD)-related pre-dementia changes. This study investigated longitudinal 
scores from the Quick Dementia Rating System (QDRS), a brief study 
partner-reported measure, in relation to baseline levels of the AD biomarker 
plasma pTau217 in individuals unimpaired at baseline.
METHODS: Data from the Wisconsin Registry for Alzheimer's Prevention (N = 639) 
were used to examine whether baseline plasma pTau217 (ALZpath assay on Quanterix 
platform) modified QDRS or Preclinical Alzheimer's Cognitive Composite (PACC3) 
trajectories (mixed-effects models; time = age). pTau217*age interaction effects 
(e.g., high vs low pTau217 simple age slopes) were compared across outcomes.
RESULTS: Higher baseline pTau217 levels were associated with faster functional 
(QDRS) and cognitive (PACC3) decline. Effect sizes were similar between PACC3 
and QDRS. Exploratory analyses showed increased risk of transitioning to 
impaired QDRS classifications in those with high-baseline pTau217.
DISCUSSION: This study demonstrates the utility of QDRS for tracking 
pre-dementia AD-related decline.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease 
Monitoring published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/dad2.70179
PMCID: PMC12414725
PMID: 40927740

Conflict of interest statement: Henrik Zetterberg has served at scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merck Sharp and Dohme, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
ScandiBio Therapeutics AB, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, LabCorp, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Oy Medix Biochemica AB, Roche, and 
WebMD, is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, and is a shareholder of 
MicThera (outside submitted work). Sterling C. Johnson serves as a consultant to 
Eli Lilly, Alzpath, Enigma Biomedical, and Merck. The remaining authors have 
nothing to disclose. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting 
Information.


94. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Aug 25;17:1637671. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1637671.  eCollection 2025.

The manipulator behind "Scissors": γ -secretase and its modulators in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Ning G(#)(1)(2), Fan X(#)(1), Juan D(1)(2), Wenxue Z(1), Sijia W(1), Meinei 
C(1)(2), Xiaolong D(1), Yiming Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Yan'an Medical College of Yan'an University, Yan'an, Shaanxi, China.
(2)Yan'an Key Laboratory of Northern Shaanxi Tumor Prevention and Treatment, 
Yan'an Medical College, Yan'an University, Yan'an, Shaanxi, China.
(#)Contributed equally

The intramembrane aspartic protease, γ-secretase, is a heterotetrameric protein 
complex composed of four integral membrane proteins: presenilin (PSEN), 
nicastrin (NCT), Anterior pharynx defective-1 (APH-1), and presenilin enhancer 2 
(PEN-2). These components are sequentially assembled into a functional complex. 
γ-secretase is ubiquitously expressed in all cells and tissues and exhibits 
enzymatic activity akin to "molecular scissors" by cleaving various type I 
transmembrane proteins. The primary substrates of this complex include amyloid 
precursor protein (APP) and Notch. The role of APP in the pathogenesis of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been extensively investigated. Although γ-secretase 
inhibitors (GSIs) have been evaluated for their therapeutic potential in AD, 
their clinical application is limited due to significant toxic side effects. 
Recently, γ-secretase modulators (GSMs) have emerged as promising alternatives, 
offering new opportunities for the treatment of AD, especially the inherent 
γ-secretase modulatory proteins (GSMPs) within cells. Research on GSMPs has 
ushered in a new era for mitigating the side effects of AD drugs. In this 
review, we systematically summarize recent advancements in the study of 
γ-secretase in relation to AD and provide an overview of GSMs and GSMPs, thereby 
offering potential insights for the development of therapeutic strategies for 
AD.

Copyright © 2025 Ning, Fan, Juan, wenxue, Sijia, Meinei, Xiaolong and Yiming.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1637671
PMCID: PMC12414960
PMID: 40927393

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


95. J Dement Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;2(2):10. doi: 10.3390/jdad2020010. Epub
2025  May 1.

Target the Heart: A New Axis of Alzheimer's Disease Prevention.

Heller LI(1), Lowe AS(1), Del Rosario Hernández T(1), Gore SV(1), Chatterjee 
M(2), Creton R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry, Brown 
University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.
(2)Amity Institute of Neuropsychology and Neurosciences, Amity University, Noida 
201303, India.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2025 Jan 28:2025.01.27.634057. doi: 10.1101/2025.01.27.634057.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: Cyclosporine A and other calcineurin inhibitors have been 
identified as prospective treatments for preventing Alzheimer's disease. We 
previously found that calcineurin inhibitors elicit a unique behavioral profile 
in zebrafish larvae, characterized by increased activity, acoustic 
hyperexcitability, and reduced visually guided behaviors. Screening a large 
library of FDA-approved compounds using Z-LaP Tracker revealed that some heart 
medications produce a similar behavioral profile, suggesting these drugs may 
exert calcineurin-inhibitor-like effects relevant to prevent-ing or ameliorating 
Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: Screening a large library of FDA-approved drugs using Z-LaP Tracker, a 
neural network model, revealed a cluster of 65 drugs demonstrating a 
cyclosporine A-like behavioral profile. Fourteen of these drugs were heart 
medications, including angiotensin receptor blockers, beta blockers, 
al-pha-adrenergic receptor antagonists, and a statin.
RESULTS: Dual administration of the heart medications with cyclosporine A in 
Z-LaP Tracker revealed synergistic effects: lower doses of each heart medication 
could be delivered in conjunction with a lower dose of cyclosporine A to evoke a 
similar or larger behavioral effect than higher doses of each drug 
independently. Other studies have shown that many of these heart medica-tions 
drugs directly or indirectly inhibit the calcineurin-NFAT pathway, like 
cyclo-sporine A, providing a potential mechanism.
CONCLUSIONS: Co-administering a low dose of cyclosporine A with select cardiac 
drugs could be a potentially effective treatment strategy for preventing 
Alzheimer's disease occurrence and simultaneously treating cardiovascular 
dysfunction, while mitigating the side effects associated with higher doses of 
cyclosporine A. Given that heart disease precedes Alzheimer's disease in many 
patients, physicians may be able to create a treatment regimen that addresses 
both con-ditions. Our results suggest that a calcineurin inhibitor combined with 
simvastatin, irbesartan, cilostazol, doxazosin, or nebivolol is the most 
promising candidate for future exploration.

DOI: 10.3390/jdad2020010
PMCID: PMC12416075
PMID: 40927301

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: There are no conflicts of 
interest.


96. Alpha Psychiatry. 2025 Aug 28;26(4):46108. doi: 10.31083/AP46108. eCollection
 2025 Aug.

Association Between Cannabis Use and Neuropsychiatric Disorders: A Two-sample 
Mendelian Randomization Study.

Guo W(1), Dong L(2), Lu Q(2), Xie M(2), Yang Y(2), Zhang Y(3), Lu X(4), Yu Q(2).

Author information:
(1)Jilin Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 130062 Changchun, 
Jilin, China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Jilin 
University, 130021 Changchun, Jilin, China.
(3)Department of Psychology, Changchun Sixth Hospital, 130052 Changchun, Jilin, 
China.
(4)Innovative Biotechnology Laboratory, Jilin Biological Research Institute, 
130012 Changchun, Jilin, China.

BACKGROUND: The progressive legalization and widespread use of cannabis has led 
to its use as a treatment for certain neuropsychiatric disorders. Traditional 
epidemiological studies suggest that cannabis use has an effect on some 
neurocognitive aspects. However, it is unclear whether cannabis use is causally 
related to common neuropsychiatric disorders. The present study was conducted to 
illustrate the causal relationships of genetically predicted cannabis use with 
common neuropsychiatric disorders.
METHODS: We used a two-sample Mendelian randomization method using genome-wide 
association study (GWAS) summary statistics obtained from publicly available 
databases on lifetime cannabis use and 10 neuropsychiatric disorders, including 
multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), epilepsy, generalized epilepsy, focal 
epilepsy, migraine, migraine with aura, migraine without aura, schizophrenia 
(SCZ), anorexia nervosa (AN), attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), 
and Parkinson's disease (PD) were studied with a two-sample Mendelian 
randomization method for GWAS summary statistics. The inverse variance weighted 
(IVW) method was used as the main analysis model.
RESULTS: Our study suggests that lifetime cannabis use is associated with an 
increased risk of developing PD (odds ratio (OR) = 1.782; 95% CI 1.032-3.075; p 
= 0.038) and an increased risk of ADHD in female participants (OR = 1.650; 95% 
CI 1.051-2.590; p = 0.029).
CONCLUSIONS: Cannabis intake may cause adverse effects relating to certain 
neuropsychiatric disorders. Therefore, special attention should be paid to the 
side effects of addictive drugs during clinical treatment to avoid harmful 
effects on the brain and neurocognition.

Copyright: © 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/AP46108
PMCID: PMC12416058
PMID: 40926822

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


97. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2025 Sep 3;21:1911-1933. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S537129. 
eCollection 2025.

Integrated Gut Microbiota, Metabolomics, and Network Pharmacology to Investigate 
the Anti-Alzheimer's Mechanism of Tripterygium Glycoside.

Zhang Y(1), Silang Q(2), Wang Y(3), Wang N(4), Gesang L(5), Tang L(3), Liu L(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical College, Tibet University, Lhasa, Tibet, People's Republic of China.
(2)Clinical Laboratory, Maternal and Child Health Hospital of Tibet, Lhasa, 
Tibet, People's Republic of China.
(3)Hunan Provincial University Key Laboratory of the Fundamental and Clinical 
Research on Neurodegenerative Diseases, Changsha Medical University, Changsha, 
People's Republic of China.
(4)Plateau Brain Science Research Center, Tibet University, Lhasa, Tibet, 
People's Republic of China.
(5)Department of research and development, Tibet Ganlu Tibetan Medicine Co, LTD, 
Lhasa, Tibet, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Tripterygium glycoside (TG) has been reported to have the effect of 
ameliorating Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like symptoms in mice model. However, the 
underlying mechanism is largely unknown. This study aimed to investigate the 
potential mechanism of TG against AD by integrating metabolomics, 16s rRNA 
sequencing, network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics 
simulation.
METHODS: Memory and cognitive functions were assessed in mice via the Morris 
water maze. The pathological changes were assessed using hematoxylin and Nissl's 
straining. Pathological changes in p-Tau and Aβ1-42 were assessed using 
immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, ELISA, and Western blotting. 16S rRNA 
sequencing and metabolomics were performed to analyze alterations in the 
structure of gut microbiota and hippocampus metabolites. Network pharmacology, 
molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation were performed to determine 
the putative molecular regulatory mechanism of TG in treating AD.
RESULTS: TG significantly could inhibit neuron loss, improved cognitive and 
memory functions, and significantly reduce the expression of p-Tau and Aβ1-42. 
In addition, 16s rRNA analysis revealed that TG could reverse AD-induced gut 
microbiota dysbiosis in AD model mice by reducing the abundance of Alistipes. 
Furthermore, metabolomic analysis revealed that TG may reverse AD-induced 
metabolic disorders by regulating glycerophospholipid metabolism. And spearman 
analysis revealed that glycerophospholipids metabolism might closely related to 
Alistipes. Moreover, network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular 
dynamics simulation analyses indicated that TG might regulate lipid 
metabolism-related pathways via SRC for the treatment of AD.
CONCLUSION: TG may serve as a potential therapeutic drug for preventing AD via 
the microbiota-gut-brain axis.

© 2025 Zhang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S537129
PMCID: PMC12415115
PMID: 40926795

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


98. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2025 Sep;38(5):e70120. doi: 10.1111/jar.70120.

Proactive Cognitive Stimulation for Younger Adults With Down Syndrome. A 
Feasibility Randomised Control Trial.

Hardiman S(1), Cousins R(2), Ryan A(1), Kennedy M(1), Hagan L(1), Santos 
FH(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Saint John of God Community Services Dublin South East, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Saint John of God Research Foundation, Dublin, Ireland.
(3)University College Dublin School of Psychology, Dublin, Ireland.
(4)University College London Institute of Education, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Most adults with Down syndrome develop Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathology in their 30s, yet research into cognitive health programmes for this 
group remains limited.
METHOD: A mixed-methods feasibility randomised control trial (RCT) evaluated an 
adapted, manualised group-based cognitive stimulation therapy (CST) programme 
for adults with Down syndrome (N = 12; Mage = 30) without dementia. Participants 
were randomly assigned to CST (n = 6) or control (services as usual; n = 6), 
with assessments at baseline, post-programme, and four-month follow-up by a 
blinded researcher.
RESULTS: The adapted CST was feasible, with high attendance, strong 
satisfaction, and good CST programme fidelity (all > 85%). CST participants 
showed significant gains in adaptive behaviour at post-programme, maintained at 
follow-up, and a trend towards improved episodic memory at post-programme.
CONCLUSION: Manualised group-based CST can be successfully adapted for younger 
adults with Down syndrome and shows promise in supporting cognitive health for 
this population.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jar.70120
PMID: 40926761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2025 Sep 8. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273375873250829060106. Online ahead of print.

Trends and Advancements in Smart Electrospun Food Fibers for the Management of 
Neurological Disorders.

Porwal S(1), Malviya R(1), Sridhar SB(2), Wadhwa T(2), Shareef J(2), Meenakshi 
DU(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Medical and Allied Sciences, Galgotias 
University, Greater Noida, U.P., India.
(2)RAK College of Pharmacy, RAK Medical & Health Sciences University, Ras Al 
Khaimah, United Arab Emirates.
(3)College of Pharmacy, National University of Science and Technology, Muscat, 
Oman.

Neurological disorders are complex conditions characterized by impairment of the 
nervous system, affecting motor, cognitive, and sensory functions. Current 
treatments meet substantial obstacles, primarily due to the difficulty of 
transporting drugs across the blood-brain barrier and ineffective therapy for 
nerve regeneration. Emerging technologies, such as electrospinning, offer 
innovative solutions to overcome these challenges. The study explores the 
potential of electrospun food fibers in managing and treating neurological 
disorders, concentrating on their role in drug delivery and nerve tissue 
regeneration. Electrospinning allows for the generation of nanofibers from 
diverse natural and synthetic polymers that imitate the extracellular matrix and 
stimulate brain healing. These fibers may be loaded with therapeutic drugs, 
permitting controlled, localized drug release while limiting systemic toxicity. 
For instance, electrospun fibers loaded with neuroprotective drugs, such as 
donepezil and levodopa, have exhibited better drug stability, enhanced 
bioavailability, and prolonged therapeutic efficacy in treating syndromes such 
as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Furthermore, the biodegradable and 
biocompatible nature of food-based polymers like chitosan, cellulose, and zein 
makes them great candidates for medicinal applications, minimizing the risk of 
inflammation and unfavorable immunological reactions. In conclusion, electrospun 
food fibers show tremendous promise in resolving the issues of drug delivery and 
nerve regeneration in neurological illnesses. Their capacity to boost 
therapeutic results via targeted and regulated drug release makes them a 
possible alternative to established treatment procedures, bringing renewed hope 
to patients suffering from neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273375873250829060106
PMID: 40926603


100. Br J Pharmacol. 2025 Nov;182(21):5409-5429. doi: 10.1111/bph.70185. Epub
2025  Sep 9.

Cholinergic G protein-coupled bile acid receptor 1 (TGR5/GPBA) in the medial 
septal orchestrates adult hippocampal neurogenesis and cognition in Alzheimer's 
disease mice.

Nie RZ(1), Zhang QL(1), Tan XR(1), Hu SS(1), Zhou XT(1), Jiang WK(1), Guo BW(1), 
Cao X(1), Yuan DH(1), Long Y(1), Hong H(1)(2), Tang SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, China Pharmaceutical 
University, Nanjing, China.
(2)Pukou Hospital of Chinese Medicine affiliated to China Pharmaceutical 
University, Nanjing, China.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The pathological role of the bile acid receptor 
TGR5/GPBA in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is not fully understood. We investigated 
the pharmacological effects and mechanisms of TGR5 in AD model mice.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: TGR5 expression was assessed in AD mice using 
immunofluorescence and immunoblotting. Bidirectional modulation of TGR5 
expression was achieved via stereotaxic delivery of adeno-associated virus 
vectors, while localized pharmacological activation was conducted through 
intracerebral cannula implantation. Cognition was evaluated using the Morris 
water maze and novel object recognition test. Adult hippocampal neurogenesis was 
assessed via immunofluorescence. Neuronal activity was analysed using 
immunofluorescence, fibre photometry and chemogenetics-coupled fibre photometry. 
Acetylcholine dynamics were monitored using fibre photometry, both alone and in 
combination with chemogenetic manipulation.
KEY RESULTS: TGR5 expression was selectively decreased in the medial septal (MS) 
cholinergic neurons during middle-late AD stages. Bidirectional genetic 
regulation of TGR5 in MS cholinergic neurons significantly affected cognition 
and adult hippocampal neurogenesis in mice. Pharmacological activation of TGR5 
in the MS not only increased cholinergic neuronal activity and acetylcholine 
release, but also enhanced DG glutamatergic neuronal activity, acetylcholine 
levels and neurogenesis in AD mice. TGR5 modulated cognition and neurogenesis 
via the MScholinergic(ChAT)→ DGglutamatergic(Glu) circuit. Furthermore, α7 
nAChRs in the DG were involved in TGR5-mediated improvements in cognition and 
neurogenesis.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Our findings demonstrate that TGR5 in MS 
cholinergic neurons is critical during the middle-late stage of AD and provide 
valuable insights into the underlying neuronal circuit mechanisms. TGR5 (GPBA) 
represents a potential therapeutic target for AD treatment.

© 2025 British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.70185
PMID: 40926398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]