1. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025 May 29. doi: 10.2174/0115672050366727250513061730. 
Online ahead of print.

Therapeutic Advances in Alzheimer's Disease: Integrating Natural, 
Semi-Synthetic, and Synthetic Drug Strategies.

Chauhan BS(1), Singh YP(2), Poeggeler B(3), Singh SK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Penn State College of 
Medicine, 500 University Drive Crescent Building C4605, Hershey, PA, 17033, 
United States
(2)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Virginia Commonwealth University, 
Richmond, VA, 23298, United States
(3)Department of Physiology, Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach-Institute for Zoology 
and Anthropology, Faculty of Biology Georg August University Göttingen, 
Göttingen and Goettingen Research Campus, D-38524 Sassenburg, Germany
(4)Department of Medical Biotechnology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences 
(AIIMS), Nagpur, MH, India

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with age, 
marked by progressive memory loss linked to the decline of cholinergic neurons, 
accumulation of amyloid plaques, and the presence of Neurofibrillary Tangles 
(NFTs). Neuropil threads in the brain contribute to amyloidosis and dementia. 
Despite extensive research, AD's etiology remains unclear, and currently, no 
promising therapy exists. This review examines the role of natural, 
semi-synthetic, and synthetic drugs in AD treatment. Natural drugs demonstrate 
safety and efficacy with minimal adverse effects, while most agents, whether 
natural or synthetic, target multiple steps or directly counteract 
amyloidogenesis, tau protein pathology, oxidative stress, NMDA receptor 
activity, inflammation, acetylcholine (AChE) function, or α, β, γ secretase 
activity. In pursuit of improved treatment outcomes, we explore the 
effectiveness and challenges of various therapeutic interventions. Our 
hypothesis underscores the importance of an integrated approach combining these 
drug types for tailored symptom relief, suggesting combined therapies may offer 
greater therapeutic benefits compared to single-drug approaches. The drugs 
discussed show potential in regulating AD, thereby presenting viable options for 
its management. However, to obtain more favorable results, additional studies 
are needed by combining these drugs.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050366727250513061730
PMID: 40454492


2. 3 Biotech. 2025 Jul;15(7):197. doi: 10.1007/s13205-025-04355-w. Epub 2025 May 
30.

Exploring the neuroprotective role of Asparagus racemosus (Shatavari) in 
Alzheimer's disease: mechanisms, evidence, and future directions.

Nadeem M(1), Khan MA(2), Ahmad FJ(3), Parvez S(4), Akhtar M(1), Najmi AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, 110062 India.
(2)Department of Translational and Clinical Research, School of Chemical and 
Life Sciences, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, 110062 India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, 110062 India.
(4)Department of Medical Elementology and Toxicology, School of Chemical and 
Life Sciences, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, 110062 India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a progressive neurodegenerative disease, is 
characterized by cognitive decline, memory loss, and pathological features such 
as amyloid-beta plaques, tau hyperphosphorylation, oxidative stress, and 
neuroinflammation. Current therapies do not adequately address the disease's 
fundamental causes, even while they provide symptomatic relief. Asparagus 
racemosus (Shatavari), a traditional Ayurvedic medicinal herb, has drawn 
interest for its neuroprotective potential in the hunt for safer and 
multi-targeted substitutes. It is abundant with various bioactive components, 
such as alkaloids, flavonoids, and steroidal saponins (shatavarins); A. 
racemosus has adaptogenic, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant properties. By 
lowering oxidative stress, regulating neuroinflammation, and preventing the 
development of amyloid-beta, these may mitigate the pathophysiology of AD. In 
addition, preclinical research indicates that it maintains neuronal integrity, 
encourages neurogenesis, and increases acetylcholine levels by inhibiting 
cholinesterase. Moreover, via controlling the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal 
(HPA) axis, its adaptogenic actions may lessen stress-induced neurotoxicity. 
Preclinical evidence is encouraging, but there are still important limits. There 
are few human clinical trials available, and there are still unanswered 
questions about extract standardization, bioavailability, and long-term safety. 
Moreover, thorough mechanistic research is required to elucidate its therapeutic 
targets and interactions due to the intricacy of its phytochemical makeup. To 
improve effectiveness and bioavailability, future studies should focus on 
creating standardized formulations, including cutting-edge delivery methods like 
nanoformulations. To confirm its therapeutic potential and safety profile in AD 
patients, extensive, rigorous clinical studies are necessary. By addressing 
these issues, Asparagus racemosus may be positioned as a viable alternative or 
adjuvant in the treatment of AD.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2025. Springer Nature or its 
licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this 
article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other 
rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of 
this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and 
applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-025-04355-w
PMCID: PMC12125427
PMID: 40454371

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestOn behalf of all the 
authors, the corresponding author states that there is no conflict of interest. 
The authors have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose.


3. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2025 May 16;13:1569759. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2025.1569759. 
eCollection 2025.

Transcorneal electrical stimulation: impact on healthcare and future potential.

Morimoto T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Advanced Visual Neuroscience, The University of Osaka Graduate 
School of Medicine, Suita, Osaka, Japan.

Transcorneal electrical stimulation (TES), a noninvasive therapeutic technique, 
has gained attention for its potential to treat retinal and optic nerve 
diseases. TES involves applying weak electrical currents via electrodes on the 
cornea to stimulate retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) without causing activation of 
photoreceptors, inducing phosphenes, and enabling the evaluation of inner 
retinal function. This is valuable for assessing residual retinal activity in 
patients with photoreceptor or RGC degeneration. Furthermore, TES has shown 
significant neuroprotective effects on RGCs and photoreceptors through 
mechanisms involving the upregulation of neurotrophic factors (e.g., 
insulin-like growth factor 1, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and ciliary 
neurotrophic factor), reduction of inflammatory responses, and enhanced ocular 
blood flow. These findings are supported by extensive animal studies, showing 
its efficacy in mitigating retinal degeneration and optic nerve damage while 
promoting axonal regeneration. Clinically, TES has shown potential in improving 
visual function in diseases such as RP, optic neuropathies, and ischemic retinal 
conditions; however long-term benefits remain a challenge. Randomized controlled 
trials have indicated the safety and modest therapeutic effects of TES, 
suggesting its potential as an adjunct treatment for visual impairments. 
Moreover, TES may extend beyond ophthalmology into neurology. Because the retina 
is anatomically connected to the brain, TES can influence brain regions such as 
the visual cortex and hippocampus. Preliminary research proposes its potential 
for modulating brain, such as those with retinitis pigmentosa (RP). TES has 
demonstrated significant neuroprotective effects in networks, cognition, and 
emotional pathways, offering hope for treating neurodegenerative diseases such 
as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. In summary, TES represents a versatile 
and promising therapy for retinal and neurological disorders, and ongoing 
advancements will likely expand its applications in clinical practice. Further 
studies are warranted to optimize its parameters, enhance its efficacy, and 
explore its full therapeutic potential.

Copyright © 2025 Morimoto.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2025.1569759
PMCID: PMC12122452
PMID: 40454317

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


4. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 May 29;11(2):e70102. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70102. 
eCollection 2025 Apr-Jun.

Therapeutic time window of disease-modifying therapy for early Alzheimer's 
disease.

Nakashima S(1), Sato K(2)(3)(4), Niimi Y(3)(4)(5), Ihara R(6), Suzuki K(7), 
Iwata A(6), Toda T(1), Iwatsubo T(2)(3)(4); for Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine The University of Tokyo 
Bunkyo-ku Tokyo Japan.
(2)Department of Neuropathology, Graduate School of Medicine The University of 
Tokyo Bunkyo-ku Tokyo Japan.
(3)Dementia Inclusion and Therapeutics The University of Tokyo Hospital 
Bunkyo-ku Tokyo Japan.
(4)Unit for Early and Exploratory Development The University of Tokyo Hospital 
Bunkyo-ku Tokyo Japan.
(5)Department of Healthcare Economics and Health Policy, Graduate School of 
Medicine The University of Tokyo Bunkyo-ku Tokyo Japan.
(6)Department of Neurology Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology Itabashi-ku Tokyo Japan.
(7)Division of Neurology, Internal Medicine National Defense Medical College 
Tokorozawa-shi Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Recently approved disease-modifying therapies (DMT) for early 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), including lecanemab and donanemab, require patients to 
meet specific eligibility criteria for treatment. These criteria define a 
limited "therapeutic time window," after which patients become ineligible as the 
disease advances. Understanding factors influencing this window may help 
clinicians optimize patient management and reduce lost treatment opportunities.
METHODS: We analyzed longitudinal data from two observational cohorts, the 
National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center (NACC) and the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). At each visit, individuals were deemed eligible 
if they were amyloid-positive and had a Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) 
score of 22-30 (lecanemab) or 20-30 (donanemab), plus a Clinical Dementia 
Rating-Global Score (CDR-GS) of 0.5 or 1. We then applied survival analyses and 
Cox proportional hazards models to estimate time-to-ineligibility based on 
baseline cognitive status.
RESULTS: Across both datasets, higher baseline CDR-GS and MMSE were associated 
with a lower risk of becoming ineligible (pooled hazard ratio of 1.601 for 
CDR-GS of 1 vs. 0.5, and pooled hazard ratio of 0.660 per 1-point increase in 
MMSE score above the lower limit of eligibility). The estimated 75% survival 
time for patients with baseline CDR-GS 0.5 was over 12 months, suggesting only 
25% would become ineligible within 12 months. For those with CDR-GS 1, the 
estimated 50% survival time was approximately 12 months, depending on the data, 
indicating that half might become ineligible within 1 year.
DISCUSSION: We quantitatively outlined the duration of the therapeutic time 
window for early AD patients who qualify for lecanemab or donanemab, which is 
significantly influenced by baseline CDR-GS and MMSE scores. These findings will 
support more proactive patient management, ensuring timely evaluations and 
prioritization of patients at higher risk of ineligibility, particularly where 
DMT access is limited.
HIGHLIGHTS: We examined the "therapeutic time window" eligibility for 
disease-modifying therapy.Longitudinal data from National Alzheimer's 
Coordinating Center (NACC) and Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 
(ADNI) were used to quantify eligibility duration.Higher Clinical Dementia 
Rating-Global Score (CDR-GS) or lower Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) at 
baseline were associated with shorter window length.Our results will help 
optimize the management of the wait time for disease-modifying therapies (DMT) 
treatment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70102
PMCID: PMC12122261
PMID: 40453977

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
disclose. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


5. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2025 May 16;15:1585438. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2025.1585438. eCollection 2025.

Juglans regia and Pfaffia paniculata extracts: implications for periodontal 
disease treatment and correlation with Alzheimer's risk.

Miranda DG(1)(2)(3), Carrouel F(1), Attik N(3), Araujo GF(2), Dos Santos Lopes 
NF(2), Marcucci MC(2), Rodrigues FP(4), Caires GA(5), Vigerelli H(6), Godoi 
BH(7), Pacheco-Soares C(7), Ramos LP(1)(2)(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Health Systemic Process - P2S, UR4129, Faculty of Medicine 
Laennec, University Claude Bernard Lyon 1, University of Lyon, Lyon, France.
(2)Department of Biosciences and Oral Diagnosis, Institute of Science and 
Technology, São Paulo State University, São José dos Campos, Brazil.
(3)Multimaterials and Interfaces Laboratory, CNRS UMR 5615, University Claude 
Bernard Lyon 1, University of Lyon, Lyon, France.
(4)Faculty of Medicine and Health, School of Dentistry, Oral Biology Division, 
University of Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom.
(5)Laboratory of Genetics, Butantan Institute, São Paulo, Brazil.
(6)Laboratório de Bioquímica, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo, Brazil.
(7)Laboratory of Cell Compartment Dynamics, Institute of Research and 
Development, University of Vale do Paraíba, São José dos Campos, Brazil.
(8)School of Dentistry, Federal University of Alfenas-UNIFAL, Alfenas, Brazil.

Periodontal disease (PD) is a significant global health concern, affecting 
approximately 19% of the world's population. It is one of the most prevalent 
diseases today, causing substantial socio-economic impacts and diminished 
quality of life. Recent research has also revealed a potential link between PD 
and Alzheimer's disease. This study investigated the antimicrobial effects of 
Juglans regia and Pfaffia paniculata extracts against P. endodontalis and P. 
gingivalis, bacteria that cause PD and are related to Alzheimer's risk. The 
study also assessed the impact of these extracts on macrophage metabolic 
activity, pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine expression, and genotoxicity. The 
phytochemical analysis of the extract was carried out first. Antimicrobial 
activity was performed using the M11-A7 protocol (CLSI) for planktonic cultures 
on monotypic biofilms matured for 168 hours in anaerobiosis. Cell viability 
analysis was carried out using MTT on mouse macrophages (RAW 264-7), as well as 
genotoxicity assessment using micronuclei. The anti-inflammatory activity was 
evaluated using ELISA method, checking the cytokines IL-6, IL-1B, TNF-alpha, 
IL-17 and IL-10. Phytochemical analysis revealed the presence of Miquelianin, 
Regiolone and Gallic Acid in J. regia extract. For the P. paniculata extract, we 
identified the glycosides Pfaffoside C, Pfaffoside A, 
3-O-β-D-glycopyranosyl-oleanolic acid and Beta-ecdysone. Antimicrobial activity 
revealed a MBC of 1.73 for the extract of J. regia and 0.48 for P. paniculata 
against P. endodontalis and P. gingivalis. All biofilms were reduced by more 
than 89% after treatment with the extracts for 5 min. Cytotoxicity evaluations 
revealed that cell viability remained above 50% at concentrations up to 0.216 
mg/ml for J. regia and 0.015 mg/ml for P. paniculata. Neither extract exhibited 
genotoxicity. Furthermore, both demonstrated anti-inflammatory activity by 
promoting the production of the cytokine IL-10. In conclusion, the antimicrobial 
and anti-inflammatory activities of J. regia and P. paniculata extracts suggest 
their potential as treatments for oral dysbiosis, which may contribute to a 
reduced risk of neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Miranda, Carrouel, Attik, Araujo, Dos Santos Lopes, Marcucci, 
Rodrigues, Caires, Vigerelli, Godoi, Pacheco-Soares and Ramos.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2025.1585438
PMCID: PMC12122433
PMID: 40453709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


6. Front Pharmacol. 2025 May 16;16:1585697. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1585697. 
eCollection 2025.

Bioactive components and clinical potential of Astragalus species.

Li S(#)(1)(2), Hu X(#)(1)(2)(3), Liu F(3), Hu W(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Gansu Phamaceutical Industry Innovation Research Institute, Key Laboratory of 
Quality and Standard of TCM of Gansu Province, Gansu University of Chinese 
Medicine, Lanzhou, China.
(2)College of pharmacy, Gansu University of Chinese Medicine, Lanzhou, China.
(3)Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm Resources Innovation and 
Genetic Improvement, Lushan Botanical Garden, Jiangxi Province and Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Jiujiang, China.
(4)Jiangxi Academy of Forestry, Nanchang, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Astragalus L., the world's largest vascular plant genus, has been used 
medicinally and as food for centuries, especially in traditional Chinese 
medicine It is widely applied in immune modulation, antioxidant therapy, 
anti-inflammatory treatments, and antitumor applications. Recent studies show 
that Astragalus species is rich in bioactive compounds, such as polysaccharides, 
flavonoids, saponins, alkaloids, and simple phenolics, which demonstrate 
significant pharmacological effects, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, 
immunomodulatory, and antitumor properties, along with potential benefits for 
Alzheimer's disease and diabetes. This review synthesizes 140 references to 
analyze 51 newly identified flavonoids, 31 triterpenoid saponins, and 19 
alkaloids in Astragalus (2020-2025), focusing on their chemical structures and 
bioactivities. It also examines Astragalus species in medicine and food homology 
(MFH) and how processing methods affect its efficacy. Furthermore, the 
mechanisms behind its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, immune-boosting, 
antitumor, neuroprotective, and hypoglycemic effects are discussed. Future 
studies should prioritize large-scale clinical trials to confirm Astragalus's 
efficacy and safety, explore combination therapies, and improve sustainable 
resource utilization to expand its medical and food applications. Keywords: 
Bioactive molecules, Astragalus, Pharmacological action, Mechanism of action, 
Medicine and food homology (MFH).

Copyright © 2025 Li, Hu, Liu and Hu.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1585697
PMCID: PMC12122460
PMID: 40453655

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


7. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(4):1249-1251. doi: 10.1177/13872877251346044. 
Epub 2025 Jun 2.

What is frustrating the search for treatment of dementia? Fraud or ideas?

Stone J(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Camperdown, NSW, Australia.

The search for a treatment for dementia has been troubled by recent evidence of 
laboratory fraud. While acknowledging the seriousness of fraud, the author 
argues that the search for treatment has been slowed more by scientists' failure 
adequately to address two questions: 1) Why is dementia delayable before 
diagnosis yet unstoppable after diagnosis? And 2) How did molecular markers of 
dementia (like the peptide Aβ) evolve? What do they do for the individual, that 
made their evolution possible? These questions are addressed and their 
implications for the delay and treatment of dementia are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251346044
PMID: 40452483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe author 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


8. Schizophr Bull. 2025 Jun 1:sbaf080. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbaf080. Online ahead
of  print.

Screening for Cognitive Decline in Psychotic Disorders in Midlife: Examining 
Scoring the Clinical Dementia Rating Using Longitudinal Data.

Clouston SAP(1), Jonas K(2), Lyketsos CG(3), Lian WX(2), Yang Y(4), Harvey 
PD(5), Bromet EJ(2), Kotov R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family, Population, and Preventive Medicine/Program in Public 
Health, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794, United States.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794, 
United States.
(3)Richman Family Precision Medicine Center of Excellence in Alzheimer's 
Disease, Johns Hopkins Bayview and Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 
21224, United States.
(4)Program in Public Health, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794, 
United States.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, and 
Research Service, Bruce W. Carter VA Medical Center, Miami, FL, United States.

BACKGROUND AND HYPOTHESIS: Little is understood about whether the high reported 
prevalence of dementia in people with psychosis reflects impairment present at 
psychosis onset. We hypothesized that relying on longitudinal data would help to 
distinguish stable deficits associated with psychotic disorders from subsequent 
decline.
STUDY DESIGN: We prospectively assessed the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) in 
individuals with first-admission psychosis who have been followed for 25 years 
(109 with schizophrenia; 135 with other psychoses) alongside 238 demographically 
matched never-psychotic adults. We scored the CDR sum of boxes using data 
collected only once at the 25-year follow-up assessment and as a change from 
baseline, 25 years prior. Impairment was categorized as not observed (NI: 
CDR < 2.4), mild-moderate (MI: 2.4 ≤ CDR < 4.8), or severe (SI; CDR ≥ 4.8). 
Prevalence of MI/SI by clinical group was assessed. Multivariable-adjusted risk 
ratios (aRR) were estimated using multinomial logistic regression.
STUDY RESULTS: MI/SI was common when assessed cross-sectionally, but prevalence 
decreased by 44.4-65.9% when longitudinal scoring was applied. Using 
longitudinal data, 11.6%/18.2% of participants with schizophrenia and 9.1%/3.8% 
of those with other psychosis had MI/SI respectively. Participants with 
schizophrenia were at an increased risk of MI (aRR = 4.98, 95% CI, 1.85-13.46, 
P = .002) and SI (aRR = 25.98 [3.50-192.75] P = .001) relative to 
never-psychotic adults. Secondarily, homozygotic apolipoprotein-ε4 carriers 
(2.6% of genotyped participants) with schizophrenia were at higher risk for SI 
at midlife (SRR = 2.57 [1.04-6.33] P = .04).
CONCLUSIONS: Future work should include observed decline in cognition and 
functioning to examine cognitive impairment in psychosis. Changes in CDR score 
may be important when managing treatment.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Maryland Psychiatric Research Center. All rights reserved. For commercial 
re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbaf080
PMID: 40452462


9. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):695-702. doi: 10.1177/13872877251344572.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease: Proteome-wide Mendelian 
randomization and colocalization analyses.

Yu K(1), Jiang R(1)(2), Zhou D(3), Zhao Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a major neurodegenerative disorder with 
limited treatment options.ObjectiveThis study aimed to identify novel 
therapeutic targets for AD using proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) and 
colocalization analyses.MethodsWe conducted a large-scale, proteome-wide MR 
analysis using data from two extensive genome-wide association studies (GWASs) 
of plasma proteins: the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKB-PPP) and the 
deCODE Health Study. We extracted genetic instruments for plasma proteins from 
these studies and utilized AD summary statistics from European Bioinformatics 
Institute GWAS Catalog. Colocalization analysis assessed whether identified 
associations were due to shared causal variants. Phenome-wide association 
studies and drug repurposing analyses were performed to assess potential side 
effects and identify existing drugs targeting the identified proteins.ResultsOur 
MR analysis identified significant associations between genetically predicted 
levels of 9 proteins in the deCODE dataset and 17 proteins in the UKB-PPP 
dataset with AD risk after Bonferroni correction. Four proteins (BCAM, CD55, 
CR1, and GRN) showed consistent associations across both datasets. 
Colocalization analysis provided strong evidence for shared causal variants 
between GRN, CR1, and AD. PheWAS revealed minimal potential side effects for CR1 
but suggested possible pleiotropic effects for GRN. Drug repurposing analysis 
identified several FDA-approved drugs targeting CR1 and GRN with potential for 
AD treatment.ConclusionsThis study identifies GRN and CR1 as promising 
therapeutic targets for AD. These findings provide new directions for AD drug 
development, but further research and clinical trials are warranted to validate 
the therapeutic potential of these targets.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251344572
PMID: 40452368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


10. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):726-738. doi: 10.1177/13872877251344627.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Pterosin D-activated protein kinase A mitigates Alzheimer's disease in 5xFAD 
mice.

Kim HN(1), Jang WH(2), Kang NS(3), Kim S(3), Choi KE(3), Balupuri A(3), Hong 
SS(4), Choi YH(4), Lee EJ(5), Choi L(5), Koh JY(1)(5), Park GH(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Neural Injury Research Center, Biomedical Research Center, Asan Institute for 
Life Sciences, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(2)GHPharm Co., Ltd, KU Medical Technology Holdings, Korea University, Seoul, 
Korea.
(3)Graduate School of New Drug Discovery and Development, Chungnam National 
University, Daejeon, Korea.
(4)Bio Industry Department, Gyeonggido Business & Science Accelerator, Suwon, 
Korea.
(5)Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(6)College of Medicine, Korea University, Seoul, Korea.

BackgroundProtein kinase A (PKA) is a key activator of cAMP response 
element-binding protein signaling; it plays a pivotal role in cognition, memory, 
and adult neurogenesis. Phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors that indirectly 
activate PKA through cAMP are promising candidates for Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
therapeutics.ObjectiveWe examined whether pterosins bind directly to PKA as 
activators and enhance cognition and memory.MethodsWe investigated PKA 
phosphorylation and performed in silico docking analysis using the cAMP-binding 
domains (CBD1, CBD2) of bovine PKA. Our focus was on exploring the effects of 
oral pterosin D on learning and memory in a 5xFAD mouse model of AD.ResultsWe 
demonstrated that C3-hydroxylated pterosins directly activated PKA in neuronal 
cells but not in astrocytes and did not affect intracellular cAMP levels or 
inhibit PDE. In silico modeling implied that C3-hydroxylated pterosins fitted 
the CBD of PKA. Pterosins enhanced long-term potentiation mossy fiber-CA1 in the 
mouse hippocampus without affecting normal synaptic transmission. Pterosins more 
potently accelerate neuronal proliferation and neurite outgrowth in primary 
mouse cortical neurons than dibutyryl-cAMP does. Pterosin D significantly 
restored cognition and memory in 5xFAD mice on the Morris water 
maze.ConclusionsC3-hydroxylated pterosins, as activators of PKA, have 
substantial potential as disease-modifying/-slowing therapeutic agent for AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251344627
PMID: 40452366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


11. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):876-889. doi: 10.1177/13872877251346989.
Epub  2025 Jun 2.

Multicomponent exercise interventions for older adults with Alzheimer's disease: 
A systematic review and meta-analytical perspective.

Yang D(1), Hou N(2), Jia M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education, Basic Teaching Center, Ocean University of 
China, Qingdao, China.
(2)Qingdao No.67 High School of Shandong Province, Qingdao, China.
(3)Department of Physical Education, Dong-A University, Busan, Republic of 
Korea.

BackgroundExercise, as an adjunctive therapy for Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
patients, is meaningful and common. However, it remains unclear whether the 
modality of exercise has a positive impact on elderly AD patients.ObjectiveThe 
exploration of how multicomponent exercise can have positive effects on older 
adults with AD.MethodsA detailed search was conducted across six databases, 
followed by independent screening to identify the final studies included in the 
analysis. The study was conducted following the guidelines of the Cochrane 
Handbook.ResultsSeventeen studies were included in the final analysis. The 
results showed that ME effectively improved activities of daily living (ADL) 
[SMD = 0.46, 95% CI (0.13, 0.79)], depression [SMD = -0.32, 95% CI (-0.63, 
-0.01)], and balance [SMD = 0.73, 95% CI (0.32, 1.14)]. In terms of ADL, an 
intervention period of 12 weeks, with 3-5 sessions per week and each session 
lasting 30-60 min, may be more effective.ConclusionsMulticomponent exercise 
demonstrates statistically significant effects in improving ADL, depression, and 
balance in AD patients aged 60 and above. Future studies with larger sample 
sizes are needed to provide higher-level evidence.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251346989
PMID: 40452360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):562-573. doi: 10.1177/13872877251344218.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Investigating the relationship between visual impairment and cognitive 
impairment in the older adults using the novel vision screening assessment 
(VISA) tool.

Shi Y(1), Tang Y(1), Wang Y(1), Fei X(1), Xu X(2), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Changzhou, China.
(2)NHC Key Laboratory of Contraceptives Vigilance and Fertility Surveillance, 
Jiangsu Provincial Medical Key Laboratory of Fertility Protection and Health 
Technology Assessment, Jiangsu Health Development Research Center, Nanjing, 
China.

BackgroundEarly identification and multimodal treatment of dementia, especially 
Alzheimer's disease, is a common goal of global efforts.ObjectiveThis study aims 
to investigate the relationship between visual impairment (VI) and cognitive 
impairment in older adults using the Vision Screening Assessment (VISA) 
tool.MethodsA total of 94 healthy older adults from community settings in 
Changzhou were recruited for the study. Cognitive function was assessed using 
the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Clock Drawing Test (CDT). The 
VISA tool was employed to evaluate participants' visual acuity, ocular motility, 
visual fields, and visual attention.ResultsThis study examined 94 participants, 
identifying 80 with VI, 26 with abnormal visual attention, 58 with cognitive 
impairment, and 11 with visuospatial dysfunction. Analyses showed: (1) Visual 
acuity negatively correlated with MMSE and CDT scores; (2) Groups with near 
vision impairment or visual attention abnormalities had significantly lower MMSE 
and CDT scores, while cognitively normal participants showed better visual 
acuity; (3) Logistic regression revealed MMSE scores were primarily influenced 
by left-eye near vision and visual attention, whereas CDT scores were 
additionally affected by education level; (4) Mediation analysis indicated 
left-eye near vision and visual attention may impact cognitive function via 
visuospatial function.ConclusionsVI is closely associated with cognitive 
impairment, with left-eye near vision and visual attention potentially affecting 
cognition through their impact on visuospatial function. The application of the 
VISA tool may provide scientific evidence for optimizing dementia prevention and 
control strategies in China.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251344218
PMID: 40452356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


13. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;105(4):1222-1238. doi: 10.1177/13872877251335572. 
Epub 2025 Jun 2.

Role of astroglia and microglia in Alzheimer's disease and multiple therapeutic 
interventions.

Li L(1), Wang Y(1), Feng Q(2), Ma C(1), He C(1), Wan W(1), Tang L(1).

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Department, The Central Hospital of Wuhan, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, The Central Hospital of Wuhan, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by deposition of amyloid-β (Aβ) and 
neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) formed by aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau 
proteins. It presents a formidable global health challenge, prompting the 
exploration of innovative therapeutic strategies. This review aims to provide a 
thorough discussion of astrocytes and microglia to examine whether they are 
overall beneficial or detrimental for AD on the global level. Based on this, 
this review describes the treatment solutions that are likely to entail the 
manipulation of glial cells to reduce inflammation, opting to boost clearance of 
toxic proteins, thus stabilizing the effects of AD. These glial entities, 
inherent to the central nervous system, extend their functions beyond structural 
support, actively engaging in various physiological and pathological processes 
associated with AD. Both astroglia and microglia contribute significantly to the 
neuroinflammatory response observed in AD. Reactive astrocytes release 
inflammatory mediators, while activated microglia release cytokines, chemokines, 
and reactive oxygen species, collectively assisting a chronic state of 
neuroinflammation. Additionally, astrocytes partake in the clearance of Aβ, 
while microglia play a pivotal role in phagocytosing Aβ plaques. In AD, ongoing 
inflammation may cause a buildup of Aβ, which causes problems with the functions 
of astroglia and microglia and also worsens these issues with communication 
between neurons, a key factor in cognitive decline. In addition, there are 
tremendous opportunities to identify new biomarkers specific to glial disorders, 
genomic and epigenomic approaches for the selection of patients, using 
multimodal imaging techniques, and the application of machine learning 
algorithms in the future for personalized glial-targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251335572
PMID: 40452353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


14. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):799-822. doi: 10.1177/13872877251346890.
Epub  2025 Jun 2.

Large language models for Alzheimer's disease drug discovery.

Alkam T(1), Tarshizi E(1), Van Benschoten AH(1).

Author information:
(1)Master's Program of Applied Artificial Intelligence, University of San Diego, 
San Diego, CA, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder with 
significant global health and economic impacts. Despite decades of research, 
therapeutic progress has been hindered by the multifactorial nature of AD and 
limitations in traditional drug discovery approaches. This review explores the 
transformative potential of large language models (LLMs) in advancing medicinal 
chemistry for AD drug discovery. LLMs excel at processing and synthesizing vast 
biomedical datasets, enabling breakthroughs in hypothesis generation, target 
identification, and de novo drug design. By integrating multi-modal data, these 
models address key challenges, including patient heterogeneity, inefficiencies 
in preclinical models, and high failure rates in clinical trials. This paper 
highlights case studies and current implementations, including their roles in 
literature mining, protein structure prediction, and absorption, distribution, 
metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADME-Tox) property assessment, showcasing 
LLMs' capacity to enhance drug discovery efficiency and precision. Despite 
challenges related to data quality, interpretability, and ethical concerns, LLMs 
offer a promising paradigm shift in AD research, paving the way for innovative 
therapeutic solutions and interdisciplinary collaboration. This review serves as 
a resource for fostering artificial intelligence-biomedicine integration to 
combat AD and improve patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251346890
PMID: 40452351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


15. Mol Plant Pathol. 2025 Jun;26(6):e70098. doi: 10.1111/mpp.70098.

Loss of Pathogenicity and Evidence of Horizontal Gene Transfer in Colletotrichum 
gloeosporioides From a Medicinal Plant.

Yue X(1), Yang J(1), Qi J(1), Gao S(1), Huo Q(1), Guo X(1), Guo H(1), Luo J(1), 
Wang Y(1), Zhao Y(1), Liu R(1), Wang H(1), Yi S(1), Fu Y(1), Ji X(2), Wei Y(1), 
He W(1), Guo B(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Resource Biology and Biotechnology in Western China, 
Ministry of Education, Provincial Key Laboratory of Biotechnology, College of 
Life Sciences, Northwest University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of Tibetan Medicine Detection Technology, 
Ministry of Education, Xizang Minzu University, Xianyang, China.

Colletotrichum gloeosporioides is a major agricultural pathogen of crops that 
has also been identified as an endophyte of the medicinal plant Huperzia 
serrata. Both H. serrata and C. gloeosporioides produce huperzine A, a potential 
treatment for Alzheimer's disease. In this study, a nonpathogenic C. 
gloeosporioides strain (NWUHS001) was isolated and its genome sequenced. Gene 
structure prediction identified 15,413 protein-coding genes and 879 noncoding 
RNAs. Through PHI-base database prediction, we found that NWUHS001 lacks two key 
pathogenicity genes CgDN3 and cap20, which may be the cause of its 
nonpathogenicity. Comparative genomic analysis showed that the number of genes 
encoding pectin lyase B (pelB), pectin lyase (pnl) and polygalacturonase (pg) in 
NWUHS001 was significantly lower than that in pathogenic strains during the 
expansion of mycelium into host tissues. This caused slow growth and 
incapability to penetrate host cells. In contrast, in NWUHS001, genes involved 
in carbon acquisition such as ribose and amino sugar metabolic pathways were 
enriched, indicating active metabolite exchange with the host. In addition, by 
comparing the genome of NWUHS001 with that of the host H. serrata, we found that 
polyketosynthetase (pksIII), a key gene in the host huperzine A biosynthetic 
pathway, may possibly have been acquired from the fungus by horizontal gene 
transfer (HGT). This study explained the possible genetic evolution mechanism of 
C. gloeosporioides from pathogenicity to nonpathogenicity, which is of value for 
studying the interaction between microorganisms and plants. It also provided 
clues to the genetic evolution of the biosynthetic pathway of huperzine A.

© 2025 The Author(s). Molecular Plant Pathology published by British Society for 
Plant Pathology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mpp.70098
PMCID: PMC12127103
PMID: 40451789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


16. Behav Brain Res. 2025 Sep 13;493:115664. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115664. Epub
 2025 May 30.

Investigating the structural neuroimaging signature of apathy in Parkinson's 
disease.

Cordeiro TME(1), Mwangi B(2), Carreira EX(3), Prado ACA(3), Tavares F(4), 
Cardoso F(5), Jaeger A(6), de Souza LC(7), Furr Stimming E(8), Teixeira AL(1), 
Rocha NP(9).

Author information:
(1)The Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases, The 
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, 8300 Floyd Curl Drive, 
San Antonio, TX 78229, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, McGovern Medical School, 
The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, 1941 East Rd, Houston, 
TX 77054, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Faculdade Filosofia e Ciências Humanas, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Pres. Antônio Carlos 6627, Belo 
Horizonte, Minas Gerais 31270-901, Brazil.
(4)Movement Disorders Unit, Neurology Service, Universidade Federal de Minas 
Gerais, Av. Prof. Alfredo Balena, 190, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 30130-100, 
Brazil.
(5)Movement Disorders Unit, Neurology Service, Universidade Federal de Minas 
Gerais, Av. Prof. Alfredo Balena, 190, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 30130-100, 
Brazil; Neurology Service, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculdade de 
Medicina, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Prof. Alfredo Balena, 190, 
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 30130-100, Brazil; Programa de Pós-Graduação em 
Neurociências, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Pres. Antônio Carlos, 
6627, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 31270-901, Brazil.
(6)Department of Psychology, Faculdade Filosofia e Ciências Humanas, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Pres. Antônio Carlos 6627, Belo 
Horizonte, Minas Gerais 31270-901, Brazil; Programa de Pós-Graduação em 
Neurociências, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Pres. Antônio Carlos, 
6627, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 31270-901, Brazil.
(7)Neurology Service, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Prof. Alfredo Balena, 190, Belo 
Horizonte, Minas Gerais 30130-100, Brazil; Programa de Pós-Graduação em 
Neurociências, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Pres. Antônio Carlos, 
6627, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 31270-901, Brazil.
(8)Department of Neurology, McGovern Medical School, The University of Texas 
Health Science Center at Houston, 6431 Fannin St, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology, McGovern Medical School, The University of Texas 
Health Science Center at Houston, 6431 Fannin St, Houston, TX 77030, USA. 
Electronic address: Natalia.PessoaRocha@uth.tmc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Apathy is a common syndrome in up to 70 % of people with Parkinson's 
disease (PD), and it tends to worsen as the disease progresses. It is an 
independent predictor of poor clinical outcomes and reduced quality of life in 
PD patients. Apathy is linked to lower adherence to treatment and has a 
significant impact on the emotional well-being of caregivers. Identifying the 
neural basis of PD-related apathy is vital for determining treatment targets and 
prognostic biomarkers.
OBJECTIVES: To define the neuroanatomical basis of apathy in PD compared to 
controls.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study including 24 patients with PD and 25 controls. 
Participants underwent a comprehensive clinical assessment and a structural 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) protocol. Elastic Net regression models with 
clinical, demographic, volumetric, and cortical thickness data were used to 
identify key predictors of the apathy scale (AS) scores in both groups.
RESULTS: Significant neuroanatomical predictors of the AS scores were 
identified, with distinct predictors for PD patients and controls. The best 
predictor of AS scores in the PD group was the cortical thickness of the right 
temporal pole, while the best predictor in the control group was the volume of 
the mid-anterior corpus callosum. The models revealed differences in the 
predictors' strength and direction between groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The study underscores the distinct neuroanatomical correlates of 
apathy in PD, offering insights into the condition's underlying mechanisms. This 
contributes to the broader understanding of PD-related apathy and highlights 
potential areas for therapeutic intervention.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115664
PMID: 40451311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Comput Biol Chem. 2025 Dec;119:108526. doi:
10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2025.108526.  Epub 2025 May 27.

Integrated in silico and GC-MS analysis of Momordica charantia Linn. 
phytocomponents against DiNP phthalate and B[a]P toxicity: A focus on amyloid 
beta protein and acetylcholinesterase in neurodegenerative disease.

Mohanty SK(1), Samal A(2), Barik E(2), Jena S(2), Nayak Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, School of Applied Sciences, Centurion University of 
Technology and Management, Bhubaneswar Campus, Jatani, PO-Ramchandrapur, Odisha 
752050, India.
(2)Stress Physiology & Neurotoxicology Laboratory, Revenshaw University, 
Cuttack, Odisha, India.
(3)Department of Zoology, School of Applied Sciences, Centurion University of 
Technology and Management, Bhubaneswar Campus, Jatani, PO-Ramchandrapur, Odisha 
752050, India. Electronic address: yashaswi.nayak@cutm.ac.in.

Momordica charantia is renowned for its medicinal properties, driven by its 
diverse bioactive phytochemicals. This study investigates its potential to 
mitigate neurodegenerative effects induced by DiNP phthalate and Benzo[a]pyrene 
(B[a]P), focusing on Amyloid Beta Protein and Acetylcholinesterase (AChE), 
curing for Alzheimer's disease. GC-MS analysis identified key phytocomponents, 
including 2-Cyclopenten-1-one, 2-hydroxy and 19-Cycloergost-24(28)-en-3-ol, 
4,14. Molecular docking was employed to evaluate the binding affinities of these 
compounds with the target proteins. The results demonstrated that 
2-Cyclopenten-1-one, 2-hydroxy exhibited binding affinities of -8.2 kcal/mol 
with 3NYL and -9.0 kcal/mol with 7D90, indicating strong interactions with both 
targets. Similarly, 19-Cycloergost-24(28)-en-3-ol, 4,14 showed superior binding 
affinities of -8.5 kcal/mol with 3NYL and -9.9 kcal/mol with 7D90. These 
interactions suggest their ability to inhibit amyloid aggregation and AChE 
activity, both pivotal in neurodegenerative disease progression. The findings 
highlight the neuroprotective potential of Momordica charantia phytocomponents, 
providing evidence of their efficacy against toxicant-induced dysfunctions. This 
study underscores the value of integrating GC-MS and in silico approaches to 
identify bioactive compounds and explore their therapeutic mechanisms. Future 
research may focus on in vivo validation to confirm these promising 
neuroprotective effect.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2025.108526
PMID: 40450790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
don’t have any declaration of interest.


18. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2025 Aug;22(8):1155-1170. doi: 
10.1080/17425247.2025.2513440. Epub 2025 Jun 18.

Targeting Alzheimer's disease pathology: influence of nano-based drug delivery 
systems loaded with a combination of herbal and synthetic drugs.

Mumtaz(1), Unnithan D(2), Bano A(3), Chauhan APS(2), Ali J(2), Khan MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Clinical and Translational Research, School of Chemical and 
Life Sciences, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, India.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a progressive neurological disorder 
marked by cognitive decline and memory loss. Current treatments, including 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) and NMDA receptor antagonists, provide 
only symptomatic relief due to poor Blood Brain Barrier (BBB) permeability and 
side effects. The integration of synthetic and natural drug combinations with 
nanotechnology offers a promising strategy to enhance drug delivery, efficacy, 
and overall therapeutic outcomes.
AREAS COVERED: This review explores the integration of herbal and synthetic 
drugs in nano-based delivery systems for AD treatment. It examines co-loading 
efficiency, release kinetics, and synergistic therapeutic benefits of dual-drug 
formulations. Additionally, it discusses target-specific ligand 
functionalization for improved BBB penetration and neuronal targeting, alongside 
a comparative analysis of dual- vs. single-drug formulations and their impact on 
disease progression and efficacy.
EXPERT OPINION: Current treatments mainly offer early symptomatic relief but 
fail to target multiple neurobiological mechanisms of AD. Combining established 
therapies with herbal drugs can enhance efficacy and reduce side effects. 
Co-loading synthetic drugs and phytoconstituents in one nanoformulation can 
improve targeted delivery, sustained release, and minimize systemic effects for 
better outcomes.

DOI: 10.1080/17425247.2025.2513440
PMID: 40450660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Eur J Med Res. 2025 May 31;30(1):434. doi: 10.1186/s40001-025-02699-w.

The role of mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease 
and future strategies for targeted therapy.

Li X(1), Wu Z(2), Si X(3), Li J(1), Wu G(1), Wang M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Second Hospital & Clinical Medical School, 
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China.
(2)The Second Hospital & Clinical Medical School, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 
China.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, The Second Hospital & Clinical Medical School, 
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Second Hospital & Clinical Medical School, 
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China. wmx322@aliyun.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
progressive cognitive decline, behavioral impairments, and psychiatric 
comorbidities. The pathogenesis of AD remains incompletely elucidated, despite 
advances in dominant hypotheses such as the β-amyloid (Aβ) cascade, tauopathy, 
cholinergic deficiency, and neuroinflammation mechanisms. However, these 
hypotheses inadequately explain the multifactorial nature of AD, which exposes 
limitations in our understanding of its mechanisms. Mitochondrial dysfunction is 
known to play a pivotal role in AD, and since patients exhibit intracellular 
mitochondrial dysfunction and structural changes in the brain at an early stage, 
correcting the imbalance of mitochondrial homeostasis and the cytopathological 
changes caused by it may be a potential target for early treatment of AD. 
Mitochondrial structural abnormalities accelerate AD pathogenesis. For instance, 
structural and functional alterations in the mitochondria-associated endoplasmic 
reticulum membrane (MAM) can disrupt intracellular Ca2⁺ homeostasis and 
cholesterol metabolism, consequently promoting Aβ accumulation. In addition, the 
overaccumulation of Aβ and hyperphosphorylated tau proteins can further damage 
neurons by disrupting mitochondrial integrity and mitophagy, thereby amplifying 
pathological aggregation and exacerbating neurodegeneration in AD. Furthermore, 
Aβ deposition and abnormal tau proteins can disrupt mitochondrial dynamics 
through dysregulation of fission/fusion proteins, leading to excessive 
mitochondrial fragmentation and subsequent dysfunction. Additionally, 
hyperphosphorylated tau proteins can impair mitochondrial transport, resulting 
in axonal dysfunction in AD. This article reviews the biological significance of 
mitochondrial structural morphology, dynamics, and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) 
instability in AD pathology, emphasizing mitophagy abnormalities as a critical 
contributor to AD progression. Additionally, mitochondrial biogenesis and 
proteostasis are critical for maintaining mitochondrial function and integrity. 
Impairments in these processes have been implicated in the progression of AD, 
further highlighting the multifaceted role of mitochondrial dysfunction in 
neurodegeneration. It further discusses the therapeutic potential of 
mitochondria-targeted strategies for AD drug development.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40001-025-02699-w
PMCID: PMC12125765
PMID: 40450332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


20. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Oct 5;295:117720. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117720.
Epub  2025 May 15.

Probing new 3-hydrazinyl indole phenacetamide derivatives as multitarget 
anti-Alzheimer: Synthesis, in vivo, in vitro, and in silico studies.

Said MF(1), Wadie W(2), Abd El-Haleim EA(2), El Shiekh RA(3), El-Zoheiry HH(4).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University, 
Cairo, 11562, Egypt. Electronic address: mona.abdelnoor@pharma.cu.edu.eg.
(2)Pharmacology and Toxicology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Cairo, 11562, Egypt.
(3)Pharmacognosy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University, Cairo, 
11562, Egypt.
(4)Pharmaceutical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University, 
Cairo, 11562, Egypt.

The development of multi-target directed ligands (MTDLs) amassed great attention 
to combat the multifactorial nature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present 
study showcases the synthesis of a novel series of 3-hydrazinyl indole 
phenacetamide derivatives aimed at addressing AD and neuroinflammation by 
targeting acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) and 
β-secretase (BACE1) enzymes. The primarily in vivo anti-inflammatory screening 
nominated derivatives 5a-f, 5h, 5j and 5o for the initial in vitro screening 
against AChE. Compounds 5a-c, 5j, and 5o, exhibited the most potent inhibitory 
activity against AChE and BChE, were subsequently subjected to further in vivo 
biological evaluations. Also, 5a-c were inspected for their impact on hallmarks 
of AD and histopathological changes. N-phenylacetamide indole derivative bearing 
unsubstituted phenylhydrazinyl side chain 5a depicted the most cognitive 
enhancement compared to the reference standard donepezil and significantly 
improved spatial memory capabilities, mitigated histopathological alterations, 
reduced AD hallmarks, AChE, BACE1, amyloid beta (Aβ), and p-tubulin associated 
unit (p-Tau), and modulated oxidative and inflammatory markers, GSH and IL-1β. 
Moreover, in vitro BACE1 enzyme inhibition assay revealed moderate BACE1 
inhibitory activity for derivatives 5a-c. Further, in silico docking studies for 
the most active derivatives 5a-c in AChE and BACE1 binding pockets evidenced 
interacting with key amino acid residues supporting their remarkable biological 
activity. Furthermore, molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stability of 
derivative 5a within the AChE and BACE1 binding sites throughout the simulation 
period. Collectively, N-phenylacetamide indole derivative bearing unsubstituted 
phenylhydrazinyl side chain 5a represents a promising multi-target candidate, 
combining AChE, BChE and BACE1 inhibition and can be considered as a lead 
compound for further development in AD therapy.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117720
PMID: 40449120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have declared no conflict of interest.


21. J Drug Target. 2025 Jun 9:1-12. doi: 10.1080/1061186X.2025.2514575. Online
ahead  of print.

Angiopep-2 modified naringin nanoparticles for Alzheimer's disease therapy 
overcoming BBB.

Jiang J(1)(2), Xing Y(1), Liu S(1), Na Y(3), Lei X(4), Geng F(3), Zhang Y(4), 
Yang L(2), Zhang N(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, 
Heilongjiang, China.
(2)Heilongjiang Institute for Drug Control (NMPA Key Laboratory for Quality 
Research and Evaluation of Traditional Chinese Medicine), Harbin, Heilongjiang, 
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Photochemistry Biomaterials and Energy Storage Materials of 
Heilongjiang Province, College of Chemistry & Chemical Engineering, Harbin 
Normal University, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China.
(4)Jiangsu CM Clinical Innovation Center of Degenerative Bone & Joint Disease, 
Wuxi TCM Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Wuxi, 
Jiangsu, China.

Naringin (4',5,7-trihydroxyflavanone-7-rhamnoglucoside, NG), a potential 
treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD), has strong neuroprotective effects but 
is limited by poor solubility, low bioavailability, and limited brain 
accumulation. To address these issues, we developed ANG-NG-NPs, a novel 
NG-loaded poly (ethylene glycol)-poly(ε-caprolactone) copolymers (PEG-PCL) 
nanoparticle modified with the brain-targeting peptide Angiopep-2 
(TFFYGGSRGKRNNFKTEEY, ANG). ANG-NG-NPs exhibited an average size of 
126.1 ± 4.50 nm, a zeta potential of -2.97 ± 0.29 mV, 73.43 ± 0.80% 
encapsulation efficiency (EE), and 24.68 ± 0.45% drug loading capacity (LC). In 
vitro release studies confirmed its sustained-release properties. In vivo, 
ANG-NG-NPs extended NG's circulation time and increased brain uptake. Notably, 
ANG-NG-NPs restored learning and memory in APP/PS1 mice, improved hippocampal 
cell health, and reduced hyperphosphorylated tau protein (p-Tau) expression. 
These findings suggest ANG-NG-NPs as a promising brain-targeting system for 
treating central nervous system disorders.

DOI: 10.1080/1061186X.2025.2514575
PMID: 40448955


22. Neurol Sci. 2025 Sep;46(9):4327-4336. doi: 10.1007/s10072-025-08268-7. Epub
2025  May 31.

Postmortem neuropathologies are associated with retrospective tensor-based 
morphometry findings in Alzheimer's dementia continuum.

Azizzadeh A(1), Najafi M(2), Nafar Z(3), Salehzehi S(4), Azadikhah Jahromi S(5), 
Fallah H(6), Ghoshouni H(7); Alzheimer′s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. Amirm.azizzadeh@outlook.com.
(2)Department of Neurosciences and Cognition, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Educational Psychology, Allameh Tabataba'i University, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Islamic Azad University of Mashhad, Mashhad, Iran.
(5)School of Mechanical Engineering, Iran University of Science and Technology 
(IUST), Tehran, Iran.
(6)Basic Sciences Department, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Cardiovascular Epidemiology Research Center, Rajaie Cardiovascular Medical 
and Research Institute, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Understanding the relationship between postmortem neuropathological 
findings and in vivo imaging biomarkers is crucial for advancing the early 
diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study investigates the 
association between postmortem neuropathologies and retrospective Tensor-Based 
Morphometry (TBM) findings across the Alzheimer's dementia continuum.
METHODS: This study utilized tensor-based morphometry (TBM) to investigate 
structural brain changes associated with AD neuropathology. Data from the 
Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) were analyzed, including MRI 
scans and neuropathological findings from 98 participants. Logistic regression 
was used to explore the relationship between TBM indices and neuropathological 
outcomes. The diagnostic performance of TBM was evaluated using accuracy 
analysis.
RESULTS: Significant differences in TBM indices (StatROI and TempROI) were 
observed between the dementia and non-dementia groups. Logistic regression 
indicated that higher StatROI and TempROI indices were associated with lower 
odds of AD pathology, such as amyloid plaques (OR = 0.939 and 0.927), 
neurofibrillary tangles (OR = 0.961 and 0.931), and neuritic plaques (OR = 0.943 
and 0.916). Accuracy analysis demonstrated good discriminatory power of TBM 
indices in differentiating pathologically confirmed AD from non-AD dementia 
(sensitivity up to 61.29, specificity up to 93.33%) and cognitively normal 
individual (sensitivity up to 82.26, specificity up to 75%).
CONCLUSION: TBM is a promising tool for predicting the underlying neuropathology 
of AD and distinguishing between different causes of dementia. Integrating TBM 
into clinical assessments can enhance the accuracy of AD diagnosis and improve 
patient management.

© 2025. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-025-08268-7
PMID: 40448884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: All procedures 
performed in studies involving human participants were in accordance with the 
ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee and 
with the 1964 Helsinki Declaration and its later amendments or comparable 
ethical standards. This study was conducted using Deidentified patient data from 
the ADNI database. Ethical approval was obtained by each respective institute 
participating in the ADNI project. The ethical approval of ADNI is available at 
ClinicalTrials.gov with the identifier of NCT00106899. Deidentified patient data 
was accessed through the ADNI database. Methodological approval was obtained 
from the ADNI scientific body. Consent to participate: Informed consent was 
obtained from all individual participants included in the study. Consent to 
publication: Patients signed informed consent regarding publishing their data 
and photographs. Competing interests: The authors have no financial, 
non-financial, or proprietary interests in any material discussed in this 
article.


23. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2025 May 31. doi: 10.1007/s00702-025-02956-6.
Online  ahead of print.

Insulin resistance: fueling oxidative stress and neurodegeneration.

Chamorro LB(1), Zulli B(2), Barone E(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Biochemical Sciences "A. Rossi-Fanelli", Sapienza University of 
Rome, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Biochemical Sciences "A. Rossi-Fanelli", Sapienza University of 
Rome, Rome, Italy. eugenio.barone@uniroma1.it.

The growing prevalence of age-related neurodegenerative diseases is a 
consequence of population aging and demands urgent treatment strategies. This 
literature review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the contribution 
of oxidative stress and insulin resistance in neurodegenerative diseases, 
specifically Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition, current therapeutic 
approaches to treat oxidative stress and insulin resistance in this age-related 
neurodegenerative disease will be discussed. AD is the most prevalent form of 
neurodegenerative disease and is marked at early stages by oxidative stress and 
insulin resistance. Results indicate that insulin resistance may be central in 
generating oxidative stress and exacerbating AD hallmarks. In turn, insulin 
resistance can be influenced by other factors, including amyloid beta (Aβ), 
impaired biliverdin-reductase A (BVR-A) activity, and the gut microbiota. 
Defective insulin signaling in the brain comes with consequences ranging from 
declined cognitive functions, impaired autophagy, mitochondrial dysfunction, 
hyperphosphorylation of Tau, and increased Aβ production. Multiple therapeutic 
approaches that target oxidative stress or brain insulin resistance, such as 
antioxidant supplementation and anti-diabetic drugs, have mostly been 
inconclusive, except for intranasal insulin. Positive results have been obtained 
in clinical trials using nasal delivery devices to administer insulin; however, 
results are inconsistent across studies likely due to inconsistencies in the 
delivery method. Future investigations should focus on investigating the 
molecular link between oxidative stress, insulin resistance, and AD to address 
current knowledge gaps. Moreover, more focus should be given to optimizing the 
reliability and efficacy of nasal delivery devices before considering such an 
approach viable to treat neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-025-02956-6
PMID: 40448828


24. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Jul;33(7):3653-3669. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01794-y.  Epub 2025 May 31.

Exploring the therapeutic role of Moringa oleifera in neurodegeneration: 
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective mechanisms.

Goel F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Meerut Institute of Engineering & 
Technology (MIET), Meerut, India. falguni.goel@miet.ac.in.

Neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and 
other cognitive impairment conditions in elderly are defined by progressive loss 
of neurons, based mostly on oxidative stress, long-term neuroinflammation, and 
compromised neuroplasticity. In the midst of increasing investigation for 
natural drugs, Moringa oleifera, a plant highly accepted for its high 
nutritional and phytochemical constitution, has become an active candidate with 
multi-oriented neuroprotective activity. This review discusses the therapeutic 
potential of Moringa oleifera in neurodegeneration, based on its antioxidant, 
anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective activities. The plant's bioactive 
molecules, flavonoids, phenolic acids, and vitamins exhibit potent free 
radical-scavenging activity and the ability to modulate crucial inflammatory 
signaling pathways, like NF-κB and MAPK signaling. Additionally, Moringa 
oleifera is shown to possess the potential for enhancing neurogenesis, 
facilitating synaptic plasticity, and neuronal apoptosis protection. Preclinical 
evidence supports its efficacy in decreasing neuropathological alterations and 
enhancing cognitive function, whereas initial clinical data suggest a benign 
safety profile. In spite of these promising observations, additional work is 
required to confirm its action in human subjects and to standardize therapeutic 
regimens. This review highlights the promise of Moringa oleifera as an adjunct 
treatment for the prevention and management of neurodegenerative disorders and 
points to avenues for future investigation and clinical utility.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01794-y
PMID: 40448817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: All authors 
declared the absence of any financial or personal conflicts pertaining to this 
work. Ethical approval: The study did not used any animals. Clinical trial 
number is not applicable.


25. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Oct;62(10):12791-12810. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05066-2. 
Epub 2025 May 31.

Chronic Exercise Protects Against Cognitive Deficits in an Alzheimer's Disease 
Model by Enhancing Autophagy and Reducing Mitochondrial Abnormalities.

Morais GP(1), de Sousa Neto IV(2), Veras ASC(3), Teixeira GR(3), Paroschi LO(2), 
Pinto AP(2), Dos Santos JR(4), Alberici LC(4), Cintra DEC(5)(6), Pauli JR(7)(6), 
Morelli AP(7), Ropelle ER(7), da Silva ASR(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program in Rehabilitation and Functional Performance, Ribeirão 
Preto Medical School, University of São Paulo (USP), Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(2)School of Physical Education and Sport of Ribeirão Preto, University of São 
Paulo (USP), Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Multicenter Graduate Program in Physiological Sciences, SBFis, São Paulo 
State University (UNESP), Presidente Prudente, SP, Brazil.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo 
(USP), Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Laboratory of Nutritional Genomic, School of Applied Sciences, University of 
Campinas (UNICAMP), Limeira, São Paulo, Brazil.
(6)Lipids and Nutrigenomics Research Center (CELN), Faculty of Applied Sciences, 
University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Limeira, São Paulo, Brazil.
(7)Laboratory of Molecular Biology of Exercise (LaBMEx), Faculty of Applied 
Sciences, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Limeira, São Paulo, Brazil.
(8)Postgraduate Program in Rehabilitation and Functional Performance, Ribeirão 
Preto Medical School, University of São Paulo (USP), Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, 
Brazil. adelinosanchez@usp.br.
(9)School of Physical Education and Sport of Ribeirão Preto, University of São 
Paulo (USP), Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil. adelinosanchez@usp.br.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation, 
autophagic lysosomal pathway (ALP) dysfunction, mitochondrial abnormalities, and 
neuroinflammation. Physical exercise (PE) protects against AD, but its molecular 
mechanisms remain unclear. We hypothesize that PE-mediated upregulation of 
REV-ERBα and TFEB pathways mitigates AD-related dysfunctions. Acute effects of 
FK506, a calcineurin inhibitor, were assessed as a TFEB suppressor in mice 
subjected to aerobic exercise. Chronic treadmill training (8 weeks, 4 
sessions/week) was performed in APP/PS1 mice to evaluate hippocampal adaptations 
through functional tests, imaging, and molecular analyses. Acute FK506 
administration inhibited Ppp3ca and Ppp3r1 expression without altering Tfeb 
levels. Chronic PE improved aerobic capacity, strength, coordination, and 
memory, promoted neuronal survival, and decreased Aβ levels in APP mice. It also 
elevated REV-ERBα protein and Nr1 d1 expression in wild-type and APP mice, 
increased ALP activity, and reduced abnormal mitochondria in the hippocampus of 
APP mice. A positive correlation between REV-ERBα and Nr1 d1 levels was observed 
in the 2-min NOR test. Public RNA-seq data revealed lower NR1D1 mRNA in 
extracellular vesicles from the human frontal cortex of AD patients compared to 
controls. PE prevents cognitive decline in APP/PS1 mice, enhancing memory, 
physical performance, and hippocampal health. These benefits are associated with 
ALP activation, mitochondrial improvements, and reduced neuroinflammation. 
REV-ERBα may mediate these protective effects, but further studies using 
pharmacological and genetic models are needed to confirm its role.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05066-2
PMID: 40448811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


26. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 May 31. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05083-1. Online ahead of 
print.

Alexander's Disease: Potential Drug Targets and Future Directions.

Zavala E(1), Zimmerman T(2).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Sciences Program, Department of Physician Assistant Studies, High 
Point University, High Point, NC, USA. ezavala@highpoint.edu.
(2)Biomedical Sciences Program, Department of Physician Assistant Studies, High 
Point University, High Point, NC, USA.

Alexander's disease is a rare neurodegenerative disorder primarily characterized 
by upregulation of the GFAP gene and the formation of Rosenthal fibers. Its 
prognosis is fatal, with limited treatment options currently available. The GFAP 
protein is a marker for mature astrocytes. It results in the upregulation of 
reactive astroglioses. Reactive astroglioses is a neuroprotective condition 
that, when functioning correctly, helps protect the brain from stress and injury 
and prevents further injury. However, unregulated reactive astroglioses is 
linked with many neurodegenerative diseases. Due to the relative rarity in the 
incidence of AxD, treatment options have not been as widely investigated. This 
review explores potential drug targets that may impact GFAP gene expression, 
such as STAT3, GDNF, NF-kB, LCN-2, and the LPS pathway. These drug targets have 
previously been or are currently being explored in other neurodegenerative 
diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. The only treatment 
option currently in clinical trial phases involves methods to induce the 
knockout of the GFAP gene. Due to GFAP's neuroprotective role in brain injury 
and stress, it is important to explore alternative treatment options that 
downregulate GFAP as opposed to shutting it off entirely.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05083-1
PMID: 40448810

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


27. Adv Sci (Weinh). 2025 Aug;12(32):e14956. doi: 10.1002/advs.202414956. Epub
2025  May 31.

Listerin Alleviates Alzheimer's Disease through IRE1-mediated Decay of TLR4 
mRNA.

Qin F(1)(2), Cao R(1)(2), Bai X(1)(2), Yuan J(1)(2), Sun W(1)(2), Zheng Y(1)(2), 
Qi X(3), Zhao W(1)(4), Liu B(1)(2), Gao C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Infection, Immunity and prevention of Shandong Province & 
Key Laboratory for Experimental Teratology of Ministry of Education, Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong, 250012, P. R. China.
(2)Department of Immunology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong, 250012, P. R. China.
(3)Advanced Medical Research Institute, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong, 250012, P. R. China.
(4)Department of Pathogenic Biology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong, 250012, P. R. China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, 
accounting for ≈60-70% of all dementia cases worldwide. Microglial-mediated 
brain inflammation is thought to play key roles in AD progression. Clinical 
evidence and animal models have indicated that the ribosome-associated quality 
control (RQC) component Listerin is involved in the development of AD. How 
Listerin regulates the development and progression of AD is unknown. Here, it is 
demonstrated that Listerin can decrease brain inflammation and alleviate 
AD-related cognitive impairments. Microglial-specific knockout of Listerin 
exhibits deteriorative cognitive symptoms based on the extracellular Amyloid-β 
(Aβ) or Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection. Mechanistically, Listerin directly 
binds to Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) mRNA and facilitates the IRE1α-mediated 
cleavage and degradation of TLR4 mRNA, leading to the alleviation of 
TLR4-induced brain inflammation. Adenovirus-mediated overexpression of Listerin 
decelerates the disease progression in the mouse model of Aβ-mediated 
neurodegeneration. Thus, Listerin is an important suppressor of 
microglia-induced brain inflammation and may be a potential therapeutic target 
for AD treatment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/advs.202414956
PMCID: PMC12407295
PMID: 40448625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


28. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70313. doi: 10.1002/alz.70313.

Heterogeneous treatment effects of GLP-1RAs and SGLT2is on risk of Alzheimer's 
disease and related dementia in patients with type 2 diabetes: Insights from a 
real-world target trial emulation.

Tang H(1), Donahoo WT(2), DeKosky ST(3)(4), Lee YA(1), Kotecha P(1), Svensson 
M(1), Bian J(5), Guo J(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, University of Florida 
College of Pharmacy, Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(3)1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (ADRC), University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology and McKnight Brain Institute, College of Medicine, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(5)Department of Health Outcomes and Biomedical Informatics, College of 
Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(6)Center for Drug Evaluation and Safety, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
Florida, USA.

INTRODUCTION: This study assessed the heterogeneous treatment effects (HTEs) of 
glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) and sodium-glucose 
cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2is) on the risk of Alzheimer's disease and 
related dementias (ADRD).
METHODS: This target trial emulation study included adults (≥ 50 years) with 
type 2 diabetes (T2D) and newly prescribed a GLP-1RA, SGLT2i, or other 
second-line glucose-lowering drugs (GLDs). A doubly robust learning approach was 
deployed to estimate the risk difference (RD) of ADRD and identify key 
subgroups.
RESULTS: Both GLP-1RAs (RD, -1.5%) and SGLT2is (-1.7%) were associated with a 
reduced ADRD risk compared to other GLDs. Key subgroups were determined based on 
cardiovascular disease (CVD), cerebrovascular disease (CeVD), chronic kidney 
disease, and Hispanic ethnicity. Patients with CVD and CeVD had the greatest 
benefits from GLP-1RAs (-4.8%) and SGLT2is (-4.6%). No overall difference was 
observed between GLP-1RAs and SGLT2i.
DISCUSSION: These findings suggest the importance of personalized treatment in 
diabetes management regarding ADRD risk.
HIGHLIGHTS: Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) were associated 
with a decreased risk of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD), while 
the protective association varied across subgroups defined by cardiovascular 
disease (CVD), cerebrovascular disease (CeVD), and chronic kidney disease (CKD). 
Similarly, sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2is) were associated 
with a decreased risk of ADRD, with the protective association varying among 
subgroups defined by CVD, CeVD, and Hispanic ethnicity. There was no difference 
between GLP-1RAs and SGLT2is in the risk of ADRD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70313
PMCID: PMC12125485
PMID: 40448382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


29. Rev Neurosci. 2025 May 30. doi: 10.1515/revneuro-2025-0025. Online ahead of 
print.

From genetic roots to recent advancements in gene therapy targeting amyloid beta 
in Alzheimer's disease.

Peyvand P(1)(2), Allami P(1)(2)(3), Rezaei N(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Network of Immunity in Infection, Malignancy and Autoimmunity (NIIMA), 
Universal Scientific Education and Research Network (USERN), Children's Medical 
Center Hospital, Dr. Qarib St, Keshavarz Blvd, Tehran, 14194, Iran.
(2)School of Medicine, 48439 Tehran University of Medical Sciences , Pour Sina 
St, Tehran, 1416634793, Iran.
(3)Students' Scientific Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Italy St Cross, St, Vesal Shirazi, Tehran, 1417755331, Iran.
(4)Research Center for Immunodeficiencies, Children's Medical Center, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Dr. Qarib St, Keshavarz Blvd, Tehran, 14194, 
Iran.
(5)Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Dr. Qarib St, Keshavarz Blvd, Tehran, 14194, Iran.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative 
disorders. The pathological hallmarks of AD are amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and 
tau protein tangles, which cause neurodegeneration and lead to cognitive 
decline. The distinguished role of Aβ plaques in the onset of the disease, 
especially in familial AD, alongside the genetic complexity of AD, underscores 
the need for precise and targeted genetic interventions targeting Aβ. This 
review first highlights the amyloidogenic and non-amyloidogenic pathways and 
inflammatory mechanisms contributing to Aβ accumulation. It also introduces the 
role of genetic variants such as amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 
(PSEN1), PSEN2, and Apolipoprotein E (APOE) alongside the molecular and cellular 
mechanisms involved in Aβ pathology. Then, gene therapy techniques are discussed 
for their potential to target Aβ either directly by inhibiting its production or 
enhancing its degradation or indirectly by targeting APOE, inflammatory 
pathways, and neurotrophic factors. While these approaches show significant 
preclinical promise, challenges such as timing, safety, and delivery across the 
blood-brain barrier persist and need further investigation.

© 2025 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/revneuro-2025-0025
PMID: 40448320


30. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 May 31;17(1):123. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01725-7.

Towards a national registry for Alzheimer's disease and related dementias: 
rationale, design, and initial observations of the ABOARD cohort.

de Boer C(1)(2), Rhodius-Meester HFM(3)(4)(5)(6), van der Landen SM(3)(4), 
Claassen J(7)(8), de Haan R(9), Papma JM(9)(10), Seelaar H(9), 
Kloppenburg-Lagendijk M(11), van Munster B(12)(13), de Vugt M(14), Arts D(15), 
Blom M(16), de Rijke TJ(17)(18)(19), Beusink M(20), Huijsman R(21), van Veen 
EB(22), van Harten A(3)(4), Vijverberg J(3)(4), Zwan M(3)(4), Mutsaerts 
HJ(3)(4)(23), van der Lee SJ(3)(4)(24), van der Flier WM(3)(4)(25).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, De Boelelaan 1118, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
c.deboer2@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
c.deboer2@amsterdamumc.nl.
(3)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, De Boelelaan 1118, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Internal medicine, Geriatric Medicine section, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Geriatric Medicine, The Memory Clinic, Oslo University 
Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(7)Department of Geriatrics, Radboud University Medical Center and Donders 
institute, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(8)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, 
UK.
(9)Department of Neurology and Alzheimer Center Erasmus MC, Erasmus MC - 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(11)Geriatric Center, Frisius MC Leeuwarden, Leeuwarden, The Netherlands.
(12)University Medical Center Groningen, University Center for Geriatric 
Medicine, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(13)Alzheimer Center Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, 
The Netherlands.
(14)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology/Alzheimer Center Limburg, 
Mental Health and Neuroscience Research Institute, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(15)Castor EDC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(16)Alzheimer Nederland, Amersfoort, The Netherlands.
(17)Department of Medical Psychology, Amsterdam UMC location AMC, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(18)Amsterdam Public Health research Institute, Quality of Care, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(19)Amsterdam Public Health research Institute, Personalised Medicine, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(20)Health-RI, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(21)Erasmus School of Health Policy & Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(22)MedLawconsult, Voorburg, The Netherlands.
(23)Department Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(24)Genomics of Neurodegenerative Diseases and Aging, Human Genetics, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(25)Amsterdam UMC location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Epidemiology and Data 
Science, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) take 20 to 30 years 
to develop, yet setting up studies or registries that take into account the 
entire disease trajectory is difficult and time consuming. Moreover, prediction 
models are often based on selected research populations and their outcomes may 
not be most relevant to patients' daily lives. To address these gaps we set up 
the ABOARD Cohort, a national data collection infrastructure to (i) study the 
disease trajectory using patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) and medical 
data, (ii) link to available data sources, and (iii) serve as central platform 
to facilitate research, roll out healthcare innovations, and accommodate 
nationwide disease registration. Here, we describe the design of the project and 
characteristics of the first 10,275 participants.
METHOD: The ABOARD Cohort is an ongoing, participant-centered data-collection, 
taking PROMs and a minimal case report form (CRF) with relevant medical data as 
starting point, supplemented with linkage to existing data sources. Eligible 
participants with or at-risk of ADRD a and their study partners are recruited 
directly-to-participant, i.e. without the need for a doctor to sign informed 
consent. Informed consent and annual collection of PROMs are fully online. 
Relevant stakeholders are involved in decisions on project development through a 
participants panel and on data usage through a data access committee.
RESULTS: The ABOARD Cohort has been fully operational since January 2023. As of 
October 2024, 10,275 participants (mean age 66.1 (9.2) years, 70% female) and 
1,383 study partners signed up, and received an invitation to fill in online 
questionnaires and complete a digital cognitive test. Over 90% of participants 
gave consent to link their data to existing data sources. Participants who had 
consulted a doctor for memory problems (N = 1,128), reported worse outcomes on 
PROMs assessing mental health and cognition, quality of life and lifestyle, 
compared to those who had not.
CONCLUSION: The ABOARD Cohort has been set up as a national infrastructure to 
study ADRD disease trajectories, linking data-sources, with the participant at 
the steering wheel. This infrastructure has the potential to serve as a registry 
to advance research and roll out healthcare innovations on a national level.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01725-7
PMCID: PMC12125861
PMID: 40448198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All patients provided written informed consent for their data to be 
used for research purposes. The study was approved by the Research and Ethics 
Board of Amsterdam UMC (METc 2022.0120). The study was performed in accordance 
with the Declaration of Helsinki. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: Research programs of Wiesje van der Flier have been funded 
by ZonMW, NWO, EU-JPND, EU-IHI, Alzheimer Nederland, Hersenstichting 
CardioVascular Onderzoek Nederland, Health~Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & 
Health, stichting Dioraphte, Gieskes-Strijbis fonds, stichting Equilibrio, Edwin 
Bouw fonds, Pasman stichting, Philips, Biogen MA Inc, Novartis-NL, Life-MI, 
AVID, Roche BV, Eli-Lilly-NL, Fujifilm, Eisai, Combinostics. WF holds the Pasman 
chair. WF has been an invited speaker at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD 
Neurology (Medscape), NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council. 
WF is consultant to Oxford Health Policy Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA Inc, and 
Eisai. WF participated in advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc, Roche, and Eli 
Lilly. WF is member of the steering committee of EVOKE/EVOKE+ (NovoNordisk). All 
funding is paid to her institution. WF is member of the steering committee of 
PAVE, and Think Brain Health. WF was associate editor of Alzheimer, Research & 
Therapy in 2020/2021. WF is associate editor at Brain. WF is member of 
Supervisory Board (Raad van Toezicht) Trimbos Instituut.Evert-Ben van Veen was a 
paid consultant for the consent procedure and the regulation instituting the 
governance structure of the ABOARD Cohort. Evert-Ben van Veen was a paid 
consultant for the consent procedure and the regulation instituting the 
governance structure of the ABOARD Cohort.


31. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 May 30;17(1):121. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01768-w.

Hippocampal subfields: volume, neuropathological vulnerability and cognitive 
decline in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.

Bouwman MMA(1)(2)(3), Frigerio I(4)(5)(6), Lin CP(4)(5)(6), Reijner N(4)(5)(6), 
van de Berg WDJ(4)(5), Jonkman LE(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, Section Clinical Neuroanatomy and 
Biobanking, Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc, De Boelelaan 1118, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. m.m.a.bouwman@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
m.m.a.bouwman@amsterdamumc.nl.
(3)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Brain imaging, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
m.m.a.bouwman@amsterdamumc.nl.
(4)Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, Section Clinical Neuroanatomy and 
Biobanking, Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc, De Boelelaan 1118, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Brain imaging, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The hippocampus is highly affected in neurodegenerative diseases, 
including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). The 
relationship between neuropathology and atrophy in hippocampal subfields is 
complex due to differences in the selective neuronal vulnerability to distinct 
protein aggregates that underlie cognitive impairment. The aim of the current 
study was to investigate the relation between hippocampal subfield volumes, 
neuropathological burden (amyloid-β, p-tau and α-synuclein) and cognitive 
performance in AD, PD and control brain donors, using a cross-disease and 
within-subject post-mortem in situ MRI and neuropathology approach.
METHODS: A total of 60 brain donors, including 14 non-neurological controls, 27 
AD and 19 PD, underwent post-mortem in situ MRI. From 3D-T1 images hippocampal 
subfield and entorhinal cortex volumes were derived using FreeSurfer-based 
subfield segmentation. Hippocampal tissue was obtained at subsequent autopsy, 
fixed and immunostained for amyloid-β, p-tau and pSer129-αSyn. Immunoreactivity 
in hippocampal subfields was quantified as area% load using QuPath. Clinical 
Dementia Rating scores were extracted from the clinical files when available.
RESULTS: AD showed atrophy and increased p-tau, but not amyloid-β, burden in the 
CA1, subiculum and entorhinal cortex compared to controls, however MRI and 
neuropathology did not correlate. Controls and PD had similar hippocampal 
subfield volumes and pathology load. In PD, p-tau pathology, rather than 
pSer129-αSyn, was associated with lower total hippocampal volume (r=-0.68, 
p = 0.045), predominantly in PD with dementia (PDD) (r=-0.99, p = 0.013). 
Cross-disease, volume loss of the subiculum (r=-0.68, p = 0.001) and entorhinal 
cortex (r=-0.73, p = 0.004) strongly associated with cognitive impairment. 
Moreover, p-tau pathology had the strongest effect on subfield atrophy, most 
pronounced in the subiculum (β=-0.570, p < 0.001), but could only explain 22-44% 
of the volumetric variance.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though p-tau was the strongest predictor of hippocampal 
subfield atrophy, AD-pathology (p-tau and amyloid-β) only partially accounted 
for volumetric differences in hippocampal subfields, highlighting the 
significance of other pathologies or mechanisms. The increased sensitivity of 
subicular and entorhinal cortical atrophy compared to total hippocampal atrophy 
highlights the potential clinical value of incorporating hippocampal subfield 
atrophy in monitoring disease progression.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01768-w
PMCID: PMC12124080
PMID: 40448161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: All donors signed a written informed consent for brain donation and 
the use of their brain issue and medical records for research purposes. The 
procedures for brain tissue collection of NBB and NABCA have been approved by 
the Medical Ethical Committee of Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: WvdB performed 
contract research for Roche Tissue Diagnostics and Discoveric Bio, received 
antibodies for research purposed from Hoffmann-La Roche and Prothena. She is a 
member of the scientific advisory board of Gain Therapeutics. LEJ performs 
contract research for Imeka.


32. J Mol Neurosci. 2025 May 30;75(2):72. doi: 10.1007/s12031-025-02363-2.

Genetics and Epigenetics of Alzheimer's Disease: Understanding Pathogenesis and 
Exploring Therapeutic Potential.

Tiwari P(1), Dwivedi R(2), Kaushik M(2), Tripathi M(3), Dada R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New 
Delhi, 110029, India. prabhakt@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Anatomy, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New 
Delhi, 110029, India.
(3)Department of Neurology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New 
Delhi, 110029, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex, multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder 
that affects millions of individuals globally. Despite extensive research 
efforts, effective treatments for AD remain elusive. AD pathogenesis is driven 
by a combination of genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors. However, 
challenges persist in AD genetic and epigenetic research, including the need for 
larger and more diverse cohorts, the integration of multi-omic data, and the 
development of advanced computational and experimental tools. A comprehensive 
understanding of these factors is crucial for the development of effective 
treatments and ultimately a cure for this debilitating condition. In this 
review, we summarize key regulatory pathways involved in AD pathogenesis, 
emphasizing genetic factors such as the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene and 
high-impact genetic mutations in amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin 
1 (PSEN1). We also explore significant epigenetic regulators, including DNA 
methylation, histone deacetylases (HDACs), and microRNAs (miRNAs), which 
modulate gene expression and contribute to disease progression. Furthermore, we 
discuss the interplay between genetic and epigenetic factors, highlighting their 
combined impact on β-amyloid deposition, tau pathology, neuroinflammation, and 
synaptic dysfunction. Finally, we examine the potential of epigenetic 
modifications as promising therapeutic targets for AD, due to their reversible 
nature, and propose future research directions to address current knowledge 
gaps. This review offers an updated perspective on AD genetics and epigenetics, 
providing insights into novel avenues for therapeutic intervention.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-025-02363-2
PMID: 40447964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval and Consent to 
Participate: Ethical approval is not required. Consent for Publication: All 
authors read and approved the final manuscript. Institutional Review Board 
Statement: Not applicable. Informed Consent: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


33. Semin Nucl Med. 2025 Jul;55(4):526-537. doi:
10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2025.04.007.  Epub 2025 May 29.

(18)F-FDG PET for Dementia Evaluation: Co-pathologies, New Diseases, and Its 
Roles in the Era of Antiamyloid Treatment.

Thientunyakit T(1), Muangpaisan W(2), Minoshima S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok, Thailand. Electronic address: tanyaluck6413@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj 
Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, UT.

Erratum in
    Semin Nucl Med. 2025 Sep 25:S0001-2998(25)00116-3. doi: 
10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2025.09.001.

Dementia, which impairs a person's cognition and ability in daily tasks and is 
often caused by neurodegenerative disorders, remains one of the most challenging 
neuropsychiatric conditions. The prevalence of dementia has been steadily 
increasing in aging societies. Recently, antiamyloid treatment has been 
developed and approved for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), which is 
known as the major cause of dementia. Such therapeutic developments have 
accelerated the use of in vivo biomarkers in research, clinical trials, and 
clinical practice. Past and recent developments of several biomarkers, including 
18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET), have played a 
pivotal role in understanding the underlying mechanisms of dementing disorders 
and accelerating progress in both research and clinical practice, leading to 
more accurate clinical diagnosis, recognition of co-pathologies, better 
understanding of new diseases, treatment planning, and response evaluation. This 
article reviews the roles of brain FDG PET, one of the well-established imaging 
biomarkers, as a valuable tool for studying brain metabolism and its 
applications in clinical and research settings, particularly for the treatment 
of dementia.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2025.04.007
PMID: 40447541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


34. EBioMedicine. 2025 Jul;117:105753. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105753. Epub
2025  May 29.

Distinct brain atrophy progression subtypes underlie phenoconversion in isolated 
REM sleep behaviour disorder.

Joza S(1), Delva A(2), Tremblay C(3), Vo A(2), Filiatrault M(4), Tweedale M(2), 
Gagnon JF(5), Postuma RB(6), Dagher A(2), Klein J(7), Hu M(7), Dusek P(8), 
Marecek S(8), Varga Z(8), Taylor JP(9), O'Brien JT(10), Firbank M(9), Thomas 
A(9), Donaghy PC(9), Lehéricy S(11); Isabelle Arnulf(11); Vidailhet M(11), 
Corvol JC(11), Iceberg Study Group(11), Camicioli R(12), Chertkow H(13), Lewis 
S(14), Matar E(15), Ehgoetz Martens KA(16), Churchill L(15), Sommerauer M(17), 
Röttgen S(18), Borghammer P(19), Knudsen K(19), Hansen AK(19), Arnaldi D(20), 
Orso B(21), Mattioli P(20), Roccatagliata L(20), Monchi O(22), Rahayel S(23).

Collaborators: Arnulf I, Bekadar S, Benchetrit E, Brice A, Brochard V, Chalançon 
A, Colsch B, Cormier-Dequaire F, Corvol JC, Czernecki V, Degos B, Delorme C, 
Dodet P, Dongmo-Kenfack C, Habert MO, Ichou F, Ihle J, Galléa C, Gaurav R, 
Glachant MA, Gomes M, Grabli D, Hainque E, Jeancolas L, Laganot C, Lehéricy S, 
Lesage S, Leu-Semenescu S, Levy R, Maheo V, Mangone G, Mariani LL, Méneret A, 
Menon P, Mochel F, Perlbarg V, Petrovska D, Pineau F, Pyatigorskaya N, 
Rivaud-Pechoux S, Roze E, Sambin S, Socha J, Tenenhaus A, Valabregue R, 
Vidailhet M, Yahia-Cherif L.

Author information:
(1)The Neuro (Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital), McGill University, 
Montreal, H3A 2B4, Canada; Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, and 
Neuroscience and Mental Health Institute, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 
Canada.
(2)The Neuro (Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital), McGill University, 
Montreal, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(3)The Neuro (Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital), McGill University, 
Montreal, H3A 2B4, Canada; Centre for Advanced Research in Sleep Medicine, 
CIUSSS-NÎM - Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de Montréal, Montreal, H4J 1C5, Canada.
(4)Centre for Advanced Research in Sleep Medicine, CIUSSS-NÎM - Hôpital du 
Sacré-Cœur de Montréal, Montreal, H4J 1C5, Canada.
(5)Centre for Advanced Research in Sleep Medicine, CIUSSS-NÎM - Hôpital du 
Sacré-Cœur de Montréal, Montreal, H4J 1C5, Canada; Department of Psychology, 
Université du Québec à Montréal, Montreal, H2X 3P2, Canada; Research Centre, 
Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal, Montreal, H3W 1W5, Canada.
(6)The Neuro (Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital), McGill University, 
Montreal, H3A 2B4, Canada; Centre for Advanced Research in Sleep Medicine, 
CIUSSS-NÎM - Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de Montréal, Montreal, H4J 1C5, Canada; 
Department of Neurology, Montreal General Hospital, Montreal, H3G 1A4, Canada.
(7)Oxford Parkinson's Disease Centre and Division of Neurology, Nuffield 
Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(8)Department of Neurology and Centre of Clinical Neurosciences, First Faculty 
of Medicine, Charles University and General University Hospital, Prague, 
Czechia.
(9)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle, UK.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge School of Clinical 
Medicine, Cambridge, UK.
(11)Institut du Cerveau - Paris Brain Institute - ICM, Sorbonne Université, 
INSERM UMR 1127, CNRS 7225, Clinical Investigation Centre (CIC), Paris, 75013, 
France.
(12)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, and Neuroscience and Mental 
Health Institute, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.
(13)Department of Medicine (Neurology), University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; Rotman Research Institute, Baycrest Health Services, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(14)Parkinson's Disease Research Clinic, Macquarie Medical School, Macquarie 
University, Sydney, Australia; Parkinson's Disease Research Clinic, Brain and 
Mind Centre, University of Sydney, Camperdown, NSW, 2050, Australia.
(15)Parkinson's Disease Research Clinic, Macquarie Medical School, Macquarie 
University, Sydney, Australia.
(16)Parkinson's Disease Research Clinic, Macquarie Medical School, Macquarie 
University, Sydney, Australia; Department of Kinesiology and Health Sciences, 
University of Waterloo, Waterloo, N2L 3G1, Canada.
(17)Centre of Neurology, Department of Parkinson, Sleep and Movement Disorders, 
University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany; German Centre for Neurodegenerative 
Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, Germany; Department of Neurology, University Hospital 
Cologne, Faculty of Medicine, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany; Cognitive 
Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-3), Forschungszentrum 
Jülich, Jülich, Germany.
(18)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Cologne, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany; Cognitive Neuroscience, Institute of 
Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-3), Forschungszentrum Jülich, Jülich, Germany.
(19)Department of Nuclear Medicine and PET, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, 
DK-8200, Denmark.
(20)Department of Neuroscience, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics, 
Maternal and Child Health (DINOGMI), Clinical Neurology, University of Genoa, 
Genoa, 16132, Italy; IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genoa, 16132, 
Italy.
(21)Department of Neuroscience, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics, 
Maternal and Child Health (DINOGMI), Clinical Neurology, University of Genoa, 
Genoa, 16132, Italy.
(22)Research Centre, Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal, Montreal, 
H3W 1W5, Canada; Department of Radiology, Radio-Oncology, and Nuclear Medicine, 
University of Montreal, Montreal, H3T 1A4, Canada.
(23)Centre for Advanced Research in Sleep Medicine, CIUSSS-NÎM - Hôpital du 
Sacré-Cœur de Montréal, Montreal, H4J 1C5, Canada; Department of Medicine, 
University of Montreal, Montreal, H3T 1A4, Canada. Electronic address: 
shady.rahayel@umontreal.ca.

BACKGROUND: Synucleinopathies include a spectrum of disorders varying in 
features and severity, including idiopathic/isolated REM sleep behaviour 
disorder (iRBD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). 
Distinct brain atrophy patterns may already be seen in iRBD; however, how brain 
atrophy begins and progresses remains unclear.
METHODS: A multicentric cohort of 1276 participants (451 
polysomnography-confirmed iRBD, 142 PD with probable RBD, 87 DLB, and 596 
controls) underwent T1-weighted MRI and longitudinal clinical assessments. Brain 
atrophy was quantified using vertex-based cortical surface reconstruction and 
volumetric segmentation. The unsupervised machine learning algorithm, Subtype 
and Stage Inference (SuStaIn), was used to reconstruct spatiotemporal patterns 
of brain atrophy progression.
FINDINGS: SuStaIn identified two distinct subtypes of brain atrophy progression: 
1) a "cortical-first" subtype, with atrophy beginning in the frontal lobes and 
involving the subcortical structures at later stages; and 2) a 
"subcortical-first" subtype, with atrophy beginning in the limbic areas and 
involving cortical structures at later stages. Both cortical- and 
subcortical-first subtypes were associated with a higher rate of increase in 
MDS-UPDRS-III scores over time, but cognitive decline was subtype-specific, 
being associated with advancing stages in patients classified as cortical-first 
but not subcortical-first. Classified patients were more likely to phenoconvert 
over time compared to stage 0/non-classified patients. Among the 88 patients 
with iRBD who phenoconverted during follow-up, those classified within the 
cortical-first subtype had a significantly increased likelihood of developing 
DLB compared to PD, unlike those classified within the subcortical-first 
subtype.
INTERPRETATION: There are two distinct atrophy progression subtypes in iRBD, 
with the cortical-first subtype linked to an increased likelihood of developing 
DLB, while both subtypes were associated with worsening parkinsonian motor 
features. This underscores the potential utility of subtype identification and 
staging for monitoring disease progression and patient selection for trials.
FUNDING: This study was supported by grants to S.R. from Alzheimer Society 
Canada (0000000082) and by Parkinson Canada (PPG-2023-0000000122). The work 
performed in Montreal was supported by the Canadian Institutes of Health 
Research (CIHR), the Fonds de recherche du Québec - Santé (FRQS), and the W. 
Garfield Weston Foundation. The work performed in Oxford was funded by 
Parkinson's UK (J-2101) and the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) 
Oxford Biomedical Research Centre (BRC). The work performed in Prague was funded 
by the Czech Health Research Council (grant NU21-04-00535) and by The National 
Institute for Neurological Research (project number LX22NPO5107), financed by 
the European Union - Next Generation EU. The work performed in Newcastle was 
funded by the NIHR Newcastle BRC based at Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust and Newcastle University. The work performed in Paris was 
funded by grants from the Programme d'investissements d'avenir 
(ANR-10-IAIHU-06), the Paris Institute of Neurosciences - IHU (IAIHU-06), the 
Agence Nationale de la Recherche (ANR-11-INBS-0006), Électricité de France 
(Fondation d'Entreprise EDF), the EU Joint Programme-Neurodegenerative Disease 
Research (JPND) for the Control-PD Project (Cognitive Propagation in Prodromal 
Parkinson's disease), the Fondation Thérèse et René Planiol, the Fonds 
Saint-Michel; by unrestricted support for research on Parkinson's disease from 
Energipole (M. Mallart) and the Société Française de Médecine Esthétique (M. 
Legrand); and by a grant from the Institut de France to Isabelle Arnulf (for the 
ALICE Study). The work performed in Sydney was supported by a Dementia Team 
Grant from the National Health and Medical Research Council (#1095127). The work 
performed in Cologne was funded by the Else Kröner-Fresenius-Stiftung (grant 
number 2019_EKES.02), the Köln Fortune Program, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Cologne, and the "Netzwerke 2021 Program (Ministry of Culture and Science of 
Northrhine Westphalia State). The work performed in Aarhus was supported by 
funding from the Lundbeck Foundation, Parkinsonforeningen (The Danish Parkinson 
Association), and the Jascha Foundation.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105753
PMCID: PMC12177146
PMID: 40447483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests Outside the submitted 
work, Stephen Joza received support for attending meetings and/or travel from 
the American Academy of Neurology and Parkinson's Canada. Jean-François Gagnon 
received funding from the NIH/NIA. Ronald B. Postuma received grants from the 
CIHR, Michael J. Fox Foundation, NIH, Roche Diagnostics, and the Weston 
Foundation. He received consulting fees from Novartis, Eisai, Merck, Vaxxinity, 
BMS, Ventus, Korro, Vanqua, Roche, Regeneron, Helicon, Epic, and Clinilabs. He 
holds leadership roles with Parkinson Canada, the Michael J. Fox Foundation, 
MDS, Movement Disorders journal, and the RBD Study Group. Alain Dagher received 
travel support from the Michael J. Fox Foundation. Johannes C. Klein receives 
salary support from the NIHR Oxford Health Clinical Research Facility and the 
NIHR Oxford BRC, speaker honoraria from Merz, Ipsen, and AbbVie, and travel 
reimbursement from Merz and Ipsen. Michele Hu received consulting fees from 
Lundbeck, ESCAPE Bio, Evidera, Manus Neurodynamica, Biogen MA, CuraSen 
Therapeutics, Roche, JAZZ Pharma, and Aventis Pharma. She received honoraria and 
support for attending meetings from the International Movement Disorders 
Society, the 10th Singapore International Parkinson Disease and Movement 
Disorder Symposium, and the World Parkinson Congress. She holds a patent for 
predicting striatal dopamine levels via smartphone, serves on advisory boards 
and DSMBs including the Exenatide-PD3 Trial and ISAP Trial Steering Committee, 
is Treasurer of the ABN MDSIG, a shareholder and advisory founder of NeuHealth 
Digital Ltd. John T. O'Brien received consulting fees from Biogen and acted as a 
consultant for Roche, GE Healthcare, and Okwin. He received honoraria for 
lectures from GE Healthcare, serves on advisory boards or DSMBs for TauRx and 
Novo Nordisk, chairs the Research Strategy Council of the UK Alzheimer's 
Society, and received research support from Avid/Lilly, Merck, UCB, and Alliance 
Medical. Paul C. Donaghy received grants or contracts, paid to his institution, 
from Alzheimer's Research UK, the Michael J. Fox Foundation, the Alzheimer's 
Society, and GE Healthcare, and received an honorarium for a lecture at the Lewy 
Body Masterclass (paid to his institution). Jean-Christophe Corvol received 
grants/contracts from the Paris Brain Institute, ANR, and AXA Foundation (paid 
to institution), consulting fees from Roche, Servier, UCB, Ferrer, Alzprotect, 
iRegene, and Bayer, and serves on the Servier advisory board. Richard Camicioli 
serves (unpaid) on the Research and Scientific Advisory Board of Parkinson 
Canada. Howard Chertkow is the Scientific Director of CCNA (unpaid) and 
principal investigator or co-investigator on major research grants including 
from CIHR ($20.3M, 2024–29), Alzheimer's Society of Canada, BrightFocus, and 
NIH. He has also received funding for multi-site clinical trials sponsored by 
IntelGenX, Alector, Eli Lilly, Biogen, Hoffman LaRoche, and Anavex. He serves on 
advisory boards for Lilly and Eisai (personal payment). Simon Lewis received 
travel support from the International Parkinson's and Movement Disorder Society 
as a member of their Congress Scientific Program Committee (2022–2025). He holds 
leadership roles on editorial boards (Translational Neurodegeneration, Journal 
of Parkinson's Disease, Movement Disorders, Parkinsonism and Related Disorders, 
Journal of Neurology) and various international MDS working groups. Elie Matar 
received honoraria from CSL Seqirus and the International Parkinson's and 
Movement Disorders Society for presentations on non-motor and cognitive symptoms 
in Parkinson's. Dario Arnaldi received honoraria for lectures from Idorsia, 
Italfarmaco, PIAM, and Bruno. Beatrice Orso received a research grant from GE 
Healthcare. Shady Rahayel received grant support and travel reimbursement from 
the Michael J. Fox Foundation. Aline Delva, Christina Tremblay, Andrew Vo, Marie 
Filiatrault, Max Tweedale, John-Paul Taylor, Michael Firbank, Alan Thomas, Petr 
Dusek, Stanislav Marecek, Zsoka Varga, Stephane Lehericy, Isabelle Arnulf, Marie 
Vidailhet, Kaylena A. Ehgoetz Martens, Lachlan Churchill, Michael Sommerauer, 
Sinah Röttgen, Per Borghammer, Karoline Knudsen, Allan K. Hansen, Pietro 
Mattioli, Luca Roccatagliata, and Oury Monchi report no conflicts of interest.


35. J Nutr. 2025 Jul;155(7):2322-2332. doi: 10.1016/j.tjnut.2025.05.015. Epub
2025  May 28.

Dietary Choline Intake and Risk of Alzheimer's Dementia in Older Adults.

Karosas T(1), Wallace TC(2), Li M(3), Pan Y(3), Agarwal P(4), Bennett DA(4), 
Jacques PF(5), Chung M(6).

Author information:
(1)Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, 
Tufts University, Boston, MA, United States; International Life Sciences 
Institute, Washington, DC, United States.
(2)Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, 
Tufts University, Boston, MA, United States; Think Healthy Group, LLC, 
Washington, DC, United States; School of Medicine and Health Sciences, George 
Washington University, Washington, DC, United States.
(3)Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, 
Tufts University, Boston, MA, United States.
(4)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, 
United States.
(5)Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, 
Tufts University, Boston, MA, United States; USDA Human Nutrition Research 
Center on Aging at Tufts University, Boston, MA, United States.
(6)Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, 
Tufts University, Boston, MA, United States. Electronic address: 
mei_chun.chung@tufts.edu.

BACKGROUND: Dietary choline intake has been associated with a lower risk of 
cognitive dysfunction, lessened brain white-matter hyperintensity volume, and a 
reduced risk of incident dementia.
OBJECTIVES: This study aims to evaluate the relationship between dietary choline 
intake and risk of clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's dementia (AD) in 
participants enrolled in the Rush Memory and Aging Project prospective cohort.
METHODS: Participants who were free of AD at baseline and had completed ≥1 food 
frequency questionnaire were included in the present analyses. Clinical AD was 
assessed among participants annually using a 3-stage process of neurological 
examinations and standardized diagnostic criteria. Dietary choline intake was 
quantified using the United States Department of Agriculture Database for the 
Choline Content of Common Foods. Multivariable Cox proportional hazard models 
were used to assess risk of incident of AD by quantiles of dietary choline 
intake. Mixed-effect Poisson regression models were used to investigate 
potential nonlinear relationships.
RESULTS: Mean baseline age of the study participants (N = 991) was 81.4 (±7.2) 
y. During a mean follow-up of 7.67 y, 266 participants (27%) were clinically 
diagnosed with AD (incident rate = 38/1000 person-year). In the fully adjusted 
model, compared with the lowest quantile of dietary choline intake, consumption 
of 200-250, 251-300, 301-350, and >350 mg/d were associated with a 23% [hazard 
ratio (HR): 0.73; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.45, 1.17; P = 0.10], 40% (HR = 
0.60; 95% CI: 0.60, 0.98; P = 0.04), 38% (HR = 0.62; 95% CI: 0.36, 1.07; P = 
0.09), and 51% (HR: 0.49; 95% CI: 0.25, 0.95; P = 0.04) reduced rate of AD, 
respectively. Results of the curve linear Poisson regression model showed the 
point of lowest risk for AD to be ∼350 mg/d with effects being similar based on 
apolipoprotein E gene genotype.
CONCLUSIONS: Dietary choline intake ∼ 350 mg/d was associated with the lowest 
risk of clinical diagnosis of AD in older adults.

Copyright © 2025 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjnut.2025.05.015
PMCID: PMC12493116
PMID: 40447055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest TCW reports financial 
support was provided by Egg Nutrition Center. TCW has received competitive 
unrestricted research grants related from the American Pulse Association, 
Balchem, Corp., Egg Nutrition Center, Florida Citrus, National Dairy Council, 
National Pork Board, Nestle Health Sciences, New Capstone, Inc., Oak Ridge 
Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) through the U.S. Army Research 
Institute for Environmental Medicine, The Simply Good Foods Company, and Reach 
Global Strategies. TCW receives royalties from the Academy of Nutrition and 
Dietetics for editing of the Health Professionals Guide to Dietary Supplements. 
TCW has received consulting fees from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and 
National Pork Board. TCW has received honoraria for lectures from the American 
Society for Nutrition, Berry Health Benefits Symposium, Tea Institute, 
Amazentis, and Balchem, Corp. TCW has received support for attending meetings 
from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and Brightseed, Inc. TCW is on the 
science advisory board for AHARA, Beli, Deerland Probiotics & Enzymes, Forbes 
Health, National Pork Board, and Produce for Better Health Foundation, member of 
the Brightseed Bioactives Coalition, and a past member of the Academy of 
Nutrition and Dietetics’ Working Group on Flavan-3-ols. TCW is the 
Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Dietary Supplements, Deputy Editor-in-Chief of 
the Journal of the American Nutrition Association, and Nutrition Section Editor 
of Annals of Medicine. TCW has received in-kind nutrient analyses services from 
Eurofins U.S. Food and is a Senior Fellow of the Center for Magnesium Education 
& Research. PFJ is a member of the Danone North America Essential Dairy and 
Plant-Based Advisory Board. MC has received unrestricted education grants from 
Egg Nutrition Center, Florida Citrus, National Dairy Council, National Pork 
Board, and Nestle Health Sciences through Think Healthy Group, Inc. MC is an 
Editorial Board member of the Journal of Nutrition. Other authors declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this article.


36. Fitoterapia. 2025 Jul;184:106645. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2025.106645. Epub
2025  May 28.

Identification authenticity Tibet snow tea of Lichen Thamnolia spp. using 
untargeted, pseudotargeted metabolomics and mock dock interacted with 
Alzheimer's disease.

Ye Y(1), Zhang J(2), Lin T(2), Wu C(3), Cao Q(4), Liu H(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Quality Standards and Testing Technology, Yunnan Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Agricultural Product Quality Supervision and Inspection 
Center, Ministry of Agriculture, Kunming, Yunnan 650223, China; School of 
Chemical Science and Technology, Yunnan University, Kunming 650000, China.
(2)Institute of Quality Standards and Testing Technology, Yunnan Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Agricultural Product Quality Supervision and Inspection 
Center, Ministry of Agriculture, Kunming, Yunnan 650223, China.
(3)School of Chemical Science and Technology, Yunnan University, Kunming 650000, 
China.
(4)School of Chemical Science and Technology, Yunnan University, Kunming 650000, 
China. Electronic address: QeCao@ynu.edu.cn.
(5)Institute of Quality Standards and Testing Technology, Yunnan Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Agricultural Product Quality Supervision and Inspection 
Center, Ministry of Agriculture, Kunming, Yunnan 650223, China. Electronic 
address: lhc@yaas.org.cn.

A method was developed to authenticate Tibet snow tea (Lichen Thamnolia spp.) by 
UV fluorescence and high resolution mass spectrometry with chemometrics 
analysis. The representative snow teas were collected from Shannan in Tibet 
Autonomous Region. Tibet snow teas can be discriminated by the high resolution 
mass spectrometry (HRMS) with statistical methods. Total flavonoids were founded 
including 4 mono-nuclear phenols, 3 depsides and 3 depsidones. There was a good 
correlation between the antioxidant activity and the total phenols and total 
flavonoids, as indicated by the correlation coefficient. Three biomarkers were 
semi-quantitatively analyzed by targeted metabolomics and presumed to interact 
with Alzheimer's disease through molecular docking, suggesting that they are the 
primary active components of Tibet snow tea in treating Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2025.106645
PMID: 40446935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All Authors 
declare that we have no conflict of interest.


37. J Clin Neurosci. 2025 Aug;138:111354. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2025.111354. Epub
2025  May 29.

Oral health as a modifiable risk factor for neurodegeneration: Prudent optimism 
and interdisciplinary action.

El Choueiri E(1), El Choueiri J(2), El Choueiri A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dentistry, Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM), Madrid, 
Spain.
(2)Humanitas University, Via Rita Levi Montalcini 4, 20072 Pieve Emanuele, 
Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Periodontology, School of Dentistry, Saint-Joseph University, 
Beirut 1107 2180, Lebanon.

Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's 
disease (PD), represent a growing public health burden, necessitating 
exploration of modifiable risk factors. Emerging evidence suggests a link 
between poor oral health, particularly chronic periodontitis, and 
neurodegeneration, mediated by systemic inflammation, direct bacterial invasion, 
and disruptions in the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Periodontal pathogens, such as 
Porphyromonas gingivalis, have been suggested to contribute to 
neuroinflammation, blood-brain barrier dysfunction, and amyloid-beta 
aggregation, all of which are implicated in AD pathology. Additionally, tooth 
loss and masticatory dysfunction could further exacerbate cognitive decline 
through reduced cerebral stimulation and impaired nutrient absorption. While the 
association between periodontitis and neurodegeneration is compelling, causality 
remains uncertain, warranting further longitudinal and interventional studies. 
Interdisciplinary collaboration between neurologists and dental professionals is 
essential to establish oral health as a potential preventive strategy for 
neurodegenerative diseases. Routine periodontal screenings, improved oral 
hygiene awareness, and early intervention could help mitigate cognitive decline. 
Moreover, salivary biomarkers show promise as non-invasive tools for early 
detection of neurodegeneration. Addressing socioeconomic and healthcare 
disparities in access to both dental and neurological care is crucial in 
minimizing disease burden. Future research should focus on mechanistic studies 
and randomized trials to determine whether and how periodontal interventions can 
influence neurodegenerative disease progression.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2025.111354
PMID: 40446775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


38. Clin Neurophysiol. 2025 Jul;175:2110751. doi: 10.1016/j.clinph.2025.2110751. 
Epub 2025 May 17.

Dynamic functional connectivity is modulated by the amount of p-Tau231 in blood 
in cognitively intact participants.

Carrasco-Gómez M(1), García-Colomo A(2), Nebreda A(2), Bruña R(3), Santos A(4), 
Maestú F(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electronic Engineering, ETSIT, Universidad Politécnica de 
Madrid, Calle Ramiro de Maeztu, 7, 28040 Madrid, Spain; Center for Cognitive and 
Computational Neuroscience, Complutense University of Madrid, Carretera de 
Húmera, s/n, 28223 Madrid, Spain; CIBER de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y 
Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Calle Monforte de 
Lemos, 3-5, 28029 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: martin.carrasco@upm.es.
(2)Center for Cognitive and Computational Neuroscience, Complutense University 
of Madrid, Carretera de Húmera, s/n, 28223 Madrid, Spain; Department of 
Experimental Psychology, Cognitive Psychology and Speech & Language Therapy, 
Complutense University of Madrid, Carretera de Húmera, s/n, 28223 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Center for Cognitive and Computational Neuroscience, Complutense University 
of Madrid, Carretera de Húmera, s/n, 28223 Madrid, Spain; Health Research 
Institute of the Hospital Clínico San Carlos (IdISSC), Calle Prof. Martín Lagos, 
s/n, 28240 Madrid, Spain; Department of Radiology, Rehabilitation and 
Physiotherapy, School of Medicine, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Plaza de 
Ramón y Cajal, s/n, 28240 Madrid, Spain.
(4)Department of Electronic Engineering, ETSIT, Universidad Politécnica de 
Madrid, Calle Ramiro de Maeztu, 7, 28040 Madrid, Spain; CIBER de Bioingeniería, 
Biomateriales y Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Calle 
Monforte de Lemos, 3-5, 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(5)Center for Cognitive and Computational Neuroscience, Complutense University 
of Madrid, Carretera de Húmera, s/n, 28223 Madrid, Spain; Department of 
Experimental Psychology, Cognitive Psychology and Speech & Language Therapy, 
Complutense University of Madrid, Carretera de Húmera, s/n, 28223 Madrid, Spain; 
Health Research Institute of the Hospital Clínico San Carlos (IdISSC), Calle 
Prof. Martín Lagos, s/n, 28240 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
fmaestuu@ucm.es.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Jun 01:2024.05.29.596323. doi: 10.1101/2024.05.29.596323.

INTRODUCTION: Electrophysiology and plasma biomarkers are early and non-invasive 
candidates for Alzheimer's disease detection. The purpose of this paper is to 
evaluate changes in dynamic functional connectivity measured with 
magnetoencephalography, associated with the plasma pathology marker p-tau231 in 
unimpaired adults.
METHODS: 73 individuals were included. Static and dynamic functional 
connectivity were calculated using leakage corrected amplitude envelope 
correlation. Each source's strength entropy across trials was calculated. A 
data-driven statistical analysis was performed to find the association between 
functional connectivity and plasma p-tau231 levels. Regression models were used 
to assess the influence of other variables over the clusters' connectivity.
RESULTS: Frontotemporal dynamic connectivity positively associated with p-tau231 
levels. Linear regression models identified pathological, functional and 
structural factors that influence dynamic functional connectivity.
CONCLUSIONS: Changes associated to AD pathology can be observed very early on 
using dFC, which might be more sensitive to subtle alterations than sFC. 
Furthermore, this early increase in dFC appears to have a pathological nature 
given its relationship with other plasma, functional and structural measures.
SIGNIFICANCE: These results expand previous literature on dynamic functional 
connectivity in healthy individuals at risk of AD, highlighting its usefulness 
as an early, non-invasive and more sensitive biomarker.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinph.2025.2110751
PMID: 40446587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


39. PLOS Digit Health. 2025 May 30;4(5):e0000830. doi:
10.1371/journal.pdig.0000830.  eCollection 2025 May.

Enhancing fairness in disease prediction by optimizing multiple domain 
adversarial networks.

Li B(1), Jiang X(2), Zhang K(2), Harmanci AO(2), Malin B(3), Gao H(1), Shi 
X(1)(4); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer and Information Sciences, Temple University, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(2)D. Bradley McWilliams School of Biomedical Informatics, The University of 
Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas, United States of 
America.
(3)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, 
Tennessee, United States of America.
(4)Institute for Computational Molecular Science, Temple University, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2023 Aug 26:2023.08.04.551906. doi: 10.1101/2023.08.04.551906.

Predictive models in biomedicine need to ensure equitable and reliable outcomes 
for the populations they are applied to. However, biases in AI models for 
medical predictions can lead to unfair treatment and widening disparities, 
underscoring the need for effective techniques to address these issues. However, 
current approaches struggle to simultaneously mitigate biases induced by 
multiple sensitive features in biomedical data. To enhance fairness, we 
introduce a framework based on a Multiple Domain Adversarial Neural Network 
(MDANN), which incorporates multiple adversarial components. In an MDANN, an 
adversarial module is applied to learn a fair pattern by negative gradients 
back-propagating across multiple sensitive features (i.e., the characteristics 
of patients that should not lead to a prediction outcome that may intentionally 
or unintentionally lead to disparities in clinical decisions). The MDANN applies 
loss functions based on the Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristic 
Curve (AUC) to address the class imbalance, promoting equitable classification 
performance for minority groups (e.g., a subset of the population that is 
underrepresented or disadvantaged.) Moreover, we utilize pre-trained 
convolutional autoencoders (CAEs) to extract deep representations of data, 
aiming to enhance prediction accuracy and fairness. Combining these mechanisms, 
we mitigate multiple biases and disparities to provide reliable and equitable 
disease prediction. We empirically demonstrate that the MDANN approach leads to 
better accuracy and fairness in predicting disease progression using brain 
imaging data and mitigating multiple demographic biases for Alzheimer's Disease 
and Autism populations than other adversarial networks.

Copyright: © 2025 Li et al. This is an open access article distributed under the 
terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted 
use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author 
and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pdig.0000830
PMCID: PMC12124548
PMID: 40445951

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


40. Eur Thyroid J. 2025 Jun 11;14(3):e240406. doi: 10.1530/ETJ-24-0406. Print
2025  Jun 1.

The impact of autoimmune thyroid disease on cognitive and psychiatric disorders: 
focus on clinical, pre-clinical and molecular studies.

Piekiełko-Witkowska A, Duda MK, Bogusławska J, Mackiewicz U.

Autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) is the most prevalent organ-specific 
autoimmune condition, encompassing Graves' disease (typically linked with 
hyperthyroidism) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (generally associated with 
hypothyroidism). The growing body of evidence suggests that AITD can interfere 
with brain function. Here, we review the impact of AITD on cognition, mood, and 
psychiatric disorders by analysing data from clinical, animal, ex vivo and in 
vitro studies to reveal the molecular mechanisms by which AITD affects brain 
function. Most reports indicate a stronger association between cognitive 
impairments and hyperthyroidism (including AITD-related) than hypothyroidism. 
Both hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism are linked with a higher risk of 
depression. At least some of those effects can be mediated by altered 
concentrations of T3 (3,3',5-triiodo-L-thyronine), which regulates gene 
expression in the brain microenvironment, affecting neurogenesis, angiogenesis, 
neurotransmitter release, and synaptic transmission. Diminished TSH 
(thyrotropin) signalling may also impair learning and memory by inhibiting the 
Wnt5a-β-catenin pathway. Thyroid disorders may also contribute to 
neurodegeneration by T3-mediated attenuation of amyloid-β elimination or 
TRH-induced formation of neurofibrillary tangles. Surprisingly, most clinical 
studies do not specify the immune origin of hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, 
therefore further studies involving large, well-characterised patient cohorts 
are needed to clarify the relationships between AITD and cognitive impairments 
and psychiatric disorders. Furthermore, data on the effect of anti-thyroid 
antibodies on brain function are scarce and inconclusive. Given the association 
between hyperthyroidism and an increased risk of dementia, cognitive impairment 
and mood disorders, adequate treatment and careful monitoring of AITD patients 
are essential to prevent the induction of exogenous hyperthyroidism.

DOI: 10.1530/ETJ-24-0406
PMCID: PMC12160074
PMID: 40445744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest that could be perceived as prejudicing the impartiality of the work 
reported.


41. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Oct;62(10):12722-12735. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05082-2. 
Epub 2025 May 30.

Neuroprotective Effects of Hesperidin and CK2 Inhibitor DRB on Aβ(1-42)-Induced 
Neurotoxicity in Differentiated SH-SY5Y Cells.

Eciroglu-Sarban H(1)(2)(3), Altin-Celik P(2)(3), Kelicen-Ugur P(4), 
Donmez-Altuntas H(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Vocational School of Health Services, Alanya Alaaddin Keykubat University, 
07425, Antalya, Türkiye.
(2)Institute of Health Sciences, Erciyes University, 38030, Kayseri, Türkiye.
(3)Department of Medical Biology, Medical Faculty, Erciyes University, 38030, 
Kayseri, Türkiye.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Hacettepe University, 06410, 
Ankara, Türkiye.
(5)Institute of Health Sciences, Erciyes University, 38030, Kayseri, Türkiye. 
donmezh@erciyes.edu.tr.
(6)Department of Medical Biology, Medical Faculty, Erciyes University, 38030, 
Kayseri, Türkiye. donmezh@erciyes.edu.tr.

There is still no approved treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD), a progressive 
neurodegenerative disorder characterized by amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary 
tangles, and synaptic dysfunction. In an in vitro AD model, this study aimed to 
comparatively assess the neuroprotective effects of the citrus flavonoid 
Hesperidin and the casein kinase 2 (CK2) inhibitor 
5,6-dichloro-1-β-D-ribofuranosyl benzimidazole (DRB) as potential therapeutic 
targets for AD. First, SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells were differentiated into 
cholinergic neuron-like cells using all-trans retinoic acid (RA) and 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Then, to generate an in vitro AD 
model, 20 μM Aβ1-42 was applied to induce neurotoxicity in differentiated 
SH-SY5Y cells. The neuroprotective effects of the CK2 inhibitor DRB and 
Hesperidin on the in vitro AD model were evaluated using MTT, RT-qPCR, and ELISA 
methods. Both Hesperidin and DRB, at high concentrations, reduced cell viability 
in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells for 24 and 48 h (p < 0.05 to p < 0.01). 
Pre-treatment with Hesperidin at 25 and 50 µM and DRB at 0.25 and 0.5 µM for 
24 h increased ADAM10 gene expression and decreased BACE1 gene expression, both 
of which are associated with AD markers, compared to the 20 µM Aβ1-42 treatment 
group (p < 0.05). Pre-treatment with the DRB at 0.25 and 0.5 µM concentrations 
for 24 h decreased CK2α gene expression in the in vitro AD model compared to the 
20 µM Aβ1-42 treatment group (p < 0.05), whereas Hesperidin had no effect 
(p > 0.05). Both pre-treatment with Hesperidin and DRB significantly decreased 
Aβ1-42 levels (p < 0.01), p-Tau (T181) levels (p < 0.05), and the Bax/Bcl-2 
ratio (p < 0.05). As a result, our study showed that both Hesperidin and DRB 
inhibited Aβ production by suppressing the amyloidogenic pathway and activating 
the non-amyloidogenic pathway while also exerting an inhibitory effect on 
neuronal apoptosis. CK2 may be a potential therapeutic target and could 
contribute to the pathophysiology of AD. However, these findings should be 
validated by further studies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05082-2
PMCID: PMC12433343
PMID: 40445481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: This article 
does not contain any studies on human participants or animals. Informed Consent: 
Not applicable. Consent for Publication: All authors have agreed to publish this 
article. Competing interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


42. Acta Neuropathol. 2025 May 30;149(1):54. doi: 10.1007/s00401-025-02895-2.

SARS-CoV-2 infection of human cortical cells is influenced by the interaction 
between aneuploidy and biological sex: insights from a Down syndrome in vitro 
model.

Lioudyno MI(1), Sevrioukov EA(2), Olivarria GM(2), Hitchcock L(3), Javonillo 
DI(2), Campos SM(4), Rivera I(2), Wright ST(5), Head E(5), Fortea J(6)(7)(8), 
Wisniewski T(9), Cuello AC(10), Do Carmo S(10), Lane TE(2)(11), Busciglio J(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Institute for Memory Impairments and 
Neurological Disorders, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA. 
mlioudyn@uci.edu.
(2)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Institute for Memory Impairments and 
Neurological Disorders, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, UC Irvine School of 
Medicine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(4)Samueli School of Engineering, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, 
USA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Institute for Memory 
Impairments and Neurological Disorders, University of California Irvine, Irvine, 
CA, USA.
(6)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de La Santa Creu I 
Sant Pau, Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica Sant Pau (IIB SANT PAU), Facultad de 
Medicina - Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(8)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana de Síndrome de Down, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Departments of Neurology, Pathology and Psychiatry and Center for Cognitive 
Neurology, New York University Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(10)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC, Canada.
(11)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, University of California 
Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(12)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Institute for Memory Impairments 
and Neurological Disorders, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA. 
jbuscigl@uci.edu.

Individuals with Down Syndrome (DS) represent one of the most susceptible 
populations for developing severe COVID-19, and a unique human genetic condition 
for investigating molecular mechanisms underlying susceptibility of 
neurologically vulnerable individuals to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Human 
Chromosome-21 (HSA21) triplication in DS causes global transcriptional 
deregulation, affecting multiple genes that may directly (e.g., TMPRSS2) or 
indirectly influence the SARS-CoV-2 entry into central nervous system (CNS) 
cells. The anti-viral immune response may also be altered in cells with 
trisomy-21 (T21) due to triplication of genes encoding for several interferon 
receptor subunits and interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs). Here, we demonstrate 
that human cells derived from fetal cortical specimens and maintained in primary 
cultures are susceptible to infection with a molecular clone of vesicular 
stomatitis virus engineered to express the Spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 
(VSV-eGFP-SARS-CoV-2) and to authentic SARS-CoV-2. The level of SARS-CoV-2 
infectivity in cultures originated from different cortical specimens varied, 
seemingly depending on ploidy and chromosomal sex of the cells. We confirmed the 
presence of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 in cultures and found that XY T21 group had the 
highest TMPRSS2 mRNA levels, which was associated with increased infectivity in 
XY-compared to XX T21 cultures. The XX T21 cultures exhibited elevated 
expression of several ISGs (MX1, STAT1, and STAT2) which was associated with 
lower infectivity. The comparisons of postmortem aged brain specimens revealed 
reduced ACE2, TMPRSS2, but elevated STAT2 protein levels in individuals with DS 
and Alzheimer's disease (DS-AD) compared to control and Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
group. Collectively, these results suggest multifactorial regulation of 
SARS-CoV-2 infectivity in cortical cells that involves ploidy, chromosomal sex, 
and the expression of genes implicated in regulation of virus entry and 
anti-viral response as contributing factors.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00401-025-02895-2
PMCID: PMC12125050
PMID: 40445428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: Conflict of 
interest J.F. reported receiving personal fees for service on the advisory 
boards, adjudication committees or speaker honoraria from AC Immune, Adamed, 
Alzheon, Biogen, Eisai, Esteve, Fujirebio, Ionis, Laboratorios Carnot, Life 
Molecular Imaging, Lilly, Lundbeck, Perha, Roche, Zambón and outside the 
submitted work. J.F. reports holding a patent for markers of synaptopathy in 
neurodegenerative disease (licensed to ADx, EPI8382175.0). Other authors declare 
no conflict of interest.


43. Neurochem Res. 2025 May 30;50(3):175. doi: 10.1007/s11064-025-04423-w.

Weissella confusa Attenuates Cognitive Deficits in Alzheimer's Disease by 
Reducing Oxidative Stress Via the SIRT1/PGC-1α Signaling Pathway.

Lv X(#)(1), Ye T(#)(1), Yang W(#)(2), Zhu Z(2), Xiang K(1), Zhan L(2), Sun J(3), 
Liu J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, 325027, China.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health, Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, 325035, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, 325027, China. sunjwz@126.com.
(4)Department of Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health, Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, 325035, China. wzjiaming_liu@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Emerging evidence suggests that probiotics may have a significant impact on the 
regulation of mitochondrial oxidative stress in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
However, the research focusing on the specific bacteria responsible for 
mitochondrial oxidative stress of AD remains limited. This study explores the 
impact and underlying mechanisms of probiotic W. confusa WMU005 on mitochondrial 
oxidative stress in AD. The probiotic W. confusa WMU005 was isolated from the 
healthy people. APP/PS1 mice were administered live W. confusa WMU005 for 4 
weeks and then subjected to cognitive test. Aβ deposition, Tau phosphorylation, 
neuronal apoptosis, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial damage of brain were 
measured. Additionally, APP/SWE cells treated with W. confusa WMU005 
fermentation broth showed altered levels of silent information regulator 1 
(SIRT1) and proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator 1α (PGC-1α). 
Meanwhile, we confirmed that W. confusa WMU005 could regulate SIRT1 pathway in 
APP/PS1 mice. Our results revealed that W. confusa WMU005 improved cognitive 
function, reduced Aβ and Tau pathology. Furthermore, W. confusa WMU005 treatment 
exerted antioxidative effects by activating the SIRT1 pathway. We further 
demonstrated that W. confusa WMU005 mitigated the mitochondrial oxidative stress 
via activating SIRT1 pathway in vitro. Meanwhile, we revealed that W. confusa 
WMU005 effectively inhibited the mitochondrial oxidative stress in the APP/PS1 
mice by regulating SIRT1 pathway. These findings suggest that W. confusa WMU005 
exerts protective effects on AD through the involvement of the SIRT1 signaling 
pathway, which opened avenues for novel therapeutic strategies towards treating 
AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-025-04423-w
PMID: 40445426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


44. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 May 30;40(5):215. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01632-8.

Gut microbiota and serum metabolomics unveil the role of Phellinus ribis 
polysaccharides in improving Alzheimer's disease symptoms in 
senescence-accelerated mice.

Zhang Z(1), Wang S(1), Rong R(1), Zhang G(1)(2), Li Z(1), Li Y(1), Wang R(3), 
Liu Y(4)(5), Li K(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250355, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Classical Theory, Ministry of 
Education, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250355, 
China.
(3)Linqing Qingyuan Original Biomedical Technology Company, Ltd, Linqing, 
252600, China.
(4)Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250355, China. 
yhliu@sdutcm.edu.cn.
(5)Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Classical Theory, Ministry of 
Education, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250355, 
China. yhliu@sdutcm.edu.cn.
(6)Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250355, China. 
kjli4094@sina.com.
(7)Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Classical Theory, Ministry of 
Education, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250355, 
China. kjli4094@sina.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a complex neurodegenerative disorder with limited 
therapeutic options, urgently requires innovative strategies targeting its 
underlying mechanisms. Phellinus ribis polysaccharides (PRG), a bioactive 
compound with proven neuroprotective and microbiota-modulating effects, hold 
promise for addressing AD pathology through gut-brain axis regulation. This 
study aims to investigate the effects of PRG on the gut microbiota composition 
and serum metabolomic profile of a senescence-accelerated mouse model (SAMP8) 
and to reveal its potential mechanisms in alleviating symptoms of AD. The gut 
microbiota composition of SAMP8 mice treated with PRG was analyzed using 16S 
rRNA gene sequencing. Non-targeted metabolomics, based on ultra-performance 
liquid chromatography quadrupole/electrostatic field orbitrap high-resolution 
mass spectrometry, was employed to analyze changes in metabolites in the serum 
samples. Spearman correlation analysis was further used to explore the 
association between gut microbiota and serum metabolites. PRG significantly 
improved gut dysbiosis in SAMP8 mice by increasing the abundance of beneficial 
bacterial genera, reducing pathogenic bacteria levels, and restoring the 
dominance of advantageous bacterial phyla. Serum metabolomics analysis revealed 
that PRG intervention led to significant changes in AD-related metabolites, 
including phenylalanine and oxidative stress markers. Combined analysis 
indicated a correlation between changes in gut microbiota and serum metabolites. 
PRG can alleviate AD symptoms in senescence-accelerated mice by regulating gut 
microbiota and serum metabolites, providing scientific evidence for PRG as a 
potential therapeutic agent for AD. This study explores the role of gut 
microbiota and serum metabolites under PRG intervention in neurodegenerative 
diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01632-8
PMID: 40445406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: This study was 
approved by the Experimental Animal Welfare Ethics Committee of Shandong 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine (batch number: SDUTCM20210827001), 
and conducted in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration. Animal experiments 
were conducted in accordance with the National Institutes of Health Animal Use 
Guidelines and experimental protocols were approved by the the Experimental 
Animal Welfare Ethics Committee of Shandong University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


45. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Jun 18;16(12):2224-2236. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00067. Epub 2025 May 30.

Discovery of Carbazole and Theophylline-Based Amyloid Inhibitor for the 
Promotion of Neuroprotection.

Gharai PK(1)(2), Khan J(1)(2), Mallesh R(1)(2)(3), Garg S(2), Gupta S(2), 
Jaisankar P(1)(3), Ghosh S(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Organic and Medicinal Chemistry and Structural Biology and Bioinformatics 
Division, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, 4, Raja S. C. Mullick Road, 
Jadavpur, Kolkata , WB 700 032, India.
(2)Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology, 
Jodhpur, NH 65, Surpura Bypass Road, Karwar, Rajasthan 342037, India.
(3)National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Kolkata, 
Chunilal Bhawan 168, Maniktala Main Road, Kolkata 700054, India.

The amyloid-beta 42 (Aβ42) peptide assembles into neurotoxic soluble oligomers 
and extracellular fibrillary aggregates during the progression of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), which ultimately leads to amyloid plaque in the brain, causing 
major disruption of the neural circuit and leading to the severe loss of memory. 
Thus, perturbation or inhibition of this process through the development of 
advanced inhibitors is crucial for the treatment of AD. Here, we adopted an 
advanced strategy that showcases the design of a carbazole-based chemical 
inhibitor targeting the Aβ peptide. The new inhibitors are designed in such a 
way that they can bind selectively with the Aβ42 peptide and inhibit the 
assembly process and disease progression. Initial assessments using the 
thioflavin-T assay and molecular docking experiments help screen the carbazole 
and theophylline-based CT-01 as effective lead molecules, which bind at the 
N-terminal hydrophobic region of the Aβ42 peptide and inhibit the formation of 
soluble oligomers and extracellular fibrillary aggregates. Further, FT-IR 
spectroscopy, CD, TEM, dot blot, and ITC experiments suggest the inhibition 
potency of CT-01. Finally, the neuroprotection and apoptosis assay confirm that 
CT-01 reduces amyloid-mediated toxicity in neurons. The serum-stable CT-01 can 
also protect the NGF-deprived neurons and has the ability to cross the 
blood-brain barrier.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00067
PMID: 40445128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Food Funct. 2025 Jun 16;16(12):5029-5048. doi: 10.1039/d5fo01180a.

Metabolomics and network pharmacology based study of the potential of Brassica 
rapa L. extract BREE-Ea for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Miao J(1), Huang Y(2), Yi Q(2), Wang Y(2), Xiao S(2), Liu Y(2), Yang C(2), Li 
X(2), Tian L(2), He K(2), Li J(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Institute of Materia Medica, Xinjiang 
University, Urumqi 830017, China. miaojing3357122@126.com.
(2)College of Life Science and Technology, Xinjiang University, Urumqi 830000, 
China. ljyxju@xju.edu.cn.

Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a severe neurodegenerative disorder 
causing memory loss, cognitive decline, and behavioral changes. The disease 
mechanisms involve oxidative stress, inflammation, and abnormal protein 
aggregation. BREE-Ea, a bioactive compound derived from Brassica rapa L. (BR)-a 
traditional food crop indigenous to the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, where 
it has been cultivated as a vital local food source for centuries-has shown 
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties in in vivo experiments. Methods: An 
experimental study was conducted using an in vivo AD mouse model to evaluate the 
effects of BREE-Ea on memory loss and spatial discrimination deficits. 
Biochemical analyses were performed to assess antioxidant enzyme activities, 
oxidative stress markers, and inflammatory cytokines in the brains of AD mice. 
Metabolomics and network pharmacology approaches were used to identify blood- 
and brain-entry components and metabolic pathways involved. Molecular docking 
was also conducted to confirm the binding affinity of these components to their 
targets. Results: Treatment with BREE-Ea at a dose of 20 mg kg-1 significantly 
improved memory loss and spatial discrimination deficits in AD mice. Biochemical 
analyses revealed that BREE-Ea enhanced antioxidant enzyme activities (SOD, 
GSH-Px, CAT) and reduced oxidative stress markers (MDA, AchE) and inflammatory 
cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6) in the brains of AD mice. Additionally, BREE-Ea 
decreased Aβ plaque deposition and Tau hyperphosphorylation, contributing to 
improved cognitive function. Metabolomics and network pharmacology approaches 
identified key therapeutic pathways such as serotonin synaptic transmission and 
neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions, targeting proteins like CASP3, APP, 
and PTGS2. Molecular docking confirmed the binding affinity of these components 
to their targets. Conclusion: BREE-Ea emerges as a highly promising therapeutic 
candidate for AD that effectively addresses the multifactorial nature of the 
disease and underscores its potential to alleviate the cognitive impairments 
associated with this debilitating condition.

DOI: 10.1039/d5fo01180a
PMID: 40445088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2025 Aug;73(8):2457-2465. doi: 10.1111/jgs.19552. Epub 2025
 May 30.

Short- and Long-Term Effect of Multidomain Lifestyle Intervention on Frailty: 
Post Hoc Analysis of an RCT.

Pöyhönen J(1)(2), Roitto HM(1)(2)(3), Lehtisalo J(1)(4), Levälahti E(1), 
Strandberg T(2)(3)(5), Kivipelto M(1)(6)(7)(8)(9), Kulmala J(1)(6)(10), 
Antikainen R(5)(11), Soininen H(4)(12), Tuomilehto J(13)(14)(15), Laatikainen 
T(7)(16), Ngandu T(1)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL), 
Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Department of Medicine, Clinicum, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Institute of Clinical Medicine/Neurology, University of Eastern Finland, 
Kuopio, Finland.
(5)Center for Life Course Health Research, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(6)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Care Sciences 
and Society (NVS), Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(8)Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit (AGE), School of Public Health, Imperial 
College London, London, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
(9)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(10)Faculty of Social Sciences (Health Sciences) and Gerontology Research Center 
(GEREC), Tampere University, Tampere, Finland.
(11)Medical Research Center Oulu, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland.
(12)Neurocenter, Department of Neurology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(13)Department of International Health, National School of Public Health, 
Madrid, Spain.
(14)South Ostrobothnia Central Hospital, Seinäjoki, Finland.
(15)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(16)North Karelia Wellbeing Service County (Siun Sote), Joensuu, Finland.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of frailty is increasing as the population ages. 
Lifestyle interventions have shown potential in frailty prevention. Intervention 
studies have been generally limited by short interventions and follow-ups or by 
focusing on single-domain approaches. We aimed to investigate whether a 2-year 
multidomain lifestyle intervention prevents phenotypic pre-frailty or frailty 
and whether baseline factors predict phenotypic pre-frailty or frailty.
METHODS: A total of 1259 participants (aged 60-77 years) in the Finnish 
Geriatric Intervention Study to Prevent Cognitive Impairment and Disability 
(FINGER) were randomized to a multidomain intervention group or to a regular 
health advice group for 2 years. Frailty was defined by modified Fried 
phenotype. Pre-frail and frail participants were grouped for analyses. The 
prevalence of pre-frailty/frailty at baseline and at 2, 7, and 11 years, the 
change in prevalence from baseline, and the difference in these changes between 
intervention and control groups were estimated using a mixed-effects logistic 
regression model.
RESULTS: The intervention reduced the risk of pre-frailty/frailty up to 7 years. 
The prevalence decreased in the intervention group from baseline (47%) to 
2 years (42%), while it increased in the control group (45% to 49%), resulting 
in a -9.6-percentage point difference in the change (p = 0.007). After the 
active intervention period, the prevalence began to increase in both groups, but 
the difference in the change remained in favor of the intervention group at 
7 years (-6.2 percentage points, p = 0.049). The beneficial effect was no longer 
evident at 11 years. Older age, lower protein intake, and a higher number of 
chronic diseases were strongly associated with pre-frailty/frailty.
CONCLUSIONS: A 2-year multimodal lifestyle intervention effectively prevented 
phenotypic pre-frailty/frailty, with sustained benefits observed up to 7 years. 
Continuous support for a healthy lifestyle may be necessary to prevent late-life 
pre-frailty or frailty.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of the American Geriatrics Society published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.19552
PMCID: PMC12396167
PMID: 40444985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial sponsors played no role in study 
design, methods, subject recruitment, collection, analysis, and interpretation 
of data, or preparation of the paper. The authors declare no conflicts of 
interest.


48. Clin Pharmacol Drug Dev. 2025 Sep;14(9):710-716. doi: 10.1002/cpdd.1556. Epub
 2025 May 30.

Bioequivalence of a Donepezil/Memantine 10/20 mg Fixed-Dose Combination Versus 
Single-Component Tablets in Healthy Korean Males.

Choi M(1)(2), Jin BH(1), Keum DH(1)(2), Mo KH(1)(2), Park MS(1)(2)(3), Lee J(4), 
Park S(4), Kim CO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Severance Hospital, Yonsei University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Medicine and Regulatory Sciences, Colleges of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, Yonsei University, Incheon, South Korea.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(4)Department of Clinical Research, Hyundai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Seoul, 
South Korea.

A fixed-dose combination (FDC) tablet formulation of donepezil/memantine 
(10/20 mg) was developed to improve medication compliance in patients with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study compared the pharmacokinetic (PK) 
characteristics and safety profiles of an FDC formulation (donepezil/memantine 
[10/20 mg]) and single components (SCs) of donepezil (10 mg) and memantine 
(20 mg). In a randomized, open-label, single-dose, 2-way crossover study, 24 
healthy Korean participants received a single oral dose of FDC in 1 period and 
an SC of donepezil and memantine in another period. For PK analysis, blood 
samples were collected up to 240 hours after administration. The geometric mean 
ratios and their 90% confidence intervals for the main PK parameters (Cmax and 
AUClast) indicated PK equivalence between the FDC and SC formulations. Regarding 
the safety profile, all adverse events were mild, with no serious adverse 
events. These findings support the use of an FDC formulation as a viable 
alternative to SCs of donepezil and memantine, potentially improving treatment 
adherence in patients with moderate-to-severe AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Clinical Pharmacology in Drug Development published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American College of Clinical Pharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/cpdd.1556
PMCID: PMC12402880
PMID: 40444644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Juhwan Lee and Sungjin Park are employees of 
Hyundai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. The remaining authors declare that they have no 
conflicts of interest. The authors declare that the conflicts of interest 
declared by Juhwan Lee and Sungjin Park did not have any significant influence 
on the analysis and interpretation of the results in this study.


49. Curr Protein Pept Sci. 2025 May 27. doi:
10.2174/0113892037350938250514110643.  Online ahead of print.

Phytoconstituents as Potential Therapeutics against Enzymatic Targets for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Singh H(1), Pandey VP(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Lucknow, Lucknow, 226007, India.
(2)Institute of Food Processing and Technology, ONGC Centre of Advanced Studies, 
University of Lucknow, Lucknow, 226007, India.

Neurodegenerative diseases are brought on by the loss of function of nerve cells 
in the brain or peripheral nervous system and afflict millions of people 
worldwide. Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease are the two most common 
neurodegenerative diseases. These neurodegenerative diseases are 
multi-factorial, progressive, age-related, and influenced by two factors: 
genetic and environmental. Successful treatment of neurodegenerative diseases is 
yet a challenging task due to lack of selectivity, toxicity, and the growth of 
multi-drug-resistant cells to the currently available drugs. Plant-derived, 
natural secondary metabolites have a significant impact on the research and 
development of novel medications against neurodegenerative disease. 
Plant-derived natural products are frequently regarded as safe and relatively 
safer substitutes for synthetic drugs. The present review deals with the 
elucidation of plant-derived secondary metabolites, namely alkaloids, 
flavonoids, and terpenoids, as anti-neurological therapeutics with special 
reference to various enzymatic targets, such as β-secretase, γ-secretase, 
α-Secretase, acetylcholinesterase, monoamine oxidase, and phosphodiesterase-4.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113892037350938250514110643
PMID: 40444618


50. Adv Sci (Weinh). 2025 Sep;12(35):e05660. doi: 10.1002/advs.202505660. Epub
2025  May 30.

Monitoring the Dynamics of Alzheimer's Disease Biomarkers and the APOE-Tau Axis 
via Human Cerebral Organoids with Immuno-SERS.

Jo Y(1), Kim Y(2), Kang R(3), Lee S(1)(4), Nguyen DD(1)(4), Park S(1), Lee D(5), 
Han JW(5), Mook-Jung I(5)(6), Lee LP(1)(7)(8), Park JC(1)(2)(3), Kim I(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, Institute of Quantum Biophysics, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Suwon, 16419, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Metabiohealth, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, 16419, Republic 
of Korea.
(3)Department of Biopharmaceutical Convergence, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, 
16419, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Intelligent Precision Healthcare Convergence, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Suwon, 16419, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, 
Seoul National University, Seoul, 03080, Republic of Korea.
(6)Convergence Dementia Research Center, College of Medicine, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, 03080, Republic of Korea.
(7)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, 02115, USA.
(8)Department of Bioengineering, Department of Electrical Engineering and 
Computer Science, University of California, Berkeley, CA, 94720, United States.

Noninvasive monitoring of Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarkers is essential for 
early diagnosis and treatment efficacy. However, noninvasive monitoring of tau 
protein secretion, a key biomarker of AD, across developmental stages, 
age-related variations, and the interaction between apolipoprotein E (APOE) and 
the tau protein axis is not yet accomplished. Here, the label-free and 
non-invasive detection of multiple tau variants dynamics across developmental 
stages, age-related variants, and various APOE isogenic genotyes is presented to 
investigate the APOE-tau axis using human cerebral organoids (hCOs) combined 
with surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS). Principal component analysis 
(PCA) of SERS signals successfully identifies four developmental stages of hCOs: 
embryonic body, neuronal differentiation, maturation, and maintenance phases. 
Temporal dynamics of age-related tau protein secretion are observed, reflecting 
characteristics associated with AD, which are diminished by astrocyte 
expression. PCA-based dimensionality reduction of SERS signals further reveals 
distinct clustering for different APOE isogenic genotypes, with tau protein 
secretion increasing from APOE2/E2 to APOE4/E4, providing direct insight into 
the APOE-tau axis in AD. This study introduces a novel method for the 
non-invasive clinical assessments of disease conditions, dynamics, and the 
relationship between APOE and tau in AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/advs.202505660
PMCID: PMC12463057
PMID: 40444455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


51. Front Pharmacol. 2025 May 15;16:1589751. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1589751. 
eCollection 2025.

Neuroprotective effects of astaxanthin in a scopolamine-induced rat model of 
Alzheimer's disease through antioxidant/anti-inflammatory pathways and 
opioid/benzodiazepine receptors: attenuation of Nrf2, NF-κB, and interconnected 
pathways.

Rastinpour Z(1), Fakhri S(2), Abbaszadeh F(3), Ranjbari M(1), Kiani A(2)(4), 
Namiq Amin M(1), Echeverría J(5).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(2)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Health Institute, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(3)Neurobiology Research Center, Institute of Neuroscience and Cognition, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Regenerative Medicine Research Center, Health Technology Institute, 
Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(5)Departamento de Ciencias del Ambiente, Facultad de Química y Biología, 
Universidad de Santiago de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

BACKGROUND: Given the complexity of pathological mechanisms behind Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), there is a pressing need for novel multi-targeting therapeutic 
agents. Astaxanthin, a natural compound with diverse biological effects, has 
emerged as a potential candidate in neuronal diseases.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of astaxanthin 
in a scopolamine-induced rat model of AD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In total, 36 male Wistar rats were divided into six 
groups, including a control group receiving normal saline, a negative control 
group treated with scopolamine (1 mg/kg), and two groups receiving astaxanthin 
at doses of 5 and 10 mg/kg. Additionally, two groups were pre-treated with 
naloxone (0.1 mg/kg) or flumazenil (0.5 mg/kg) to block opioid and 
benzodiazepine receptors, respectively, followed by receiving the most effective 
dose of astaxanthin (i.e., 10 mg/kg). Treatments were administered via 
intraperitoneal injection for 14 consecutive days and behavioral tests were 
done. Biochemical analyses, zymography, Western blotting, and histopathological 
examinations were also performed.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Astaxanthin treatment significantly improved cognitive 
function, enhanced plasma antioxidant capacity by increasing catalase and 
glutathione levels, and reduced nitrite levels. It also increased serum activity 
of matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP-2), while decreasing MMP-9, increasing the 
expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf-2) and decreasing 
nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) in hippocampal tissue. Histopathological findings 
indicated reduced hippocampal damage after astaxanthin administration. The 
aforementioned protective effects of astaxanthin were reversed by naloxone and 
flumazenil.
CONCLUSION: Astaxanthin demonstrates protective effects against 
scopolamine-induced AD through its neuroprotective, antioxidant, and 
anti-inflammatory properties, potentially involving interactions with opioid and 
benzodiazepine receptors.

Copyright © 2025 Rastinpour, Fakhri, Abbaszadeh, Ranjbari, Kiani, Namiq Amin and 
Echeverría.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1589751
PMCID: PMC12119477
PMID: 40444055

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


52. Front Pharmacol. 2025 May 15;16:1596469. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1596469. 
eCollection 2025.

Chronic administration of prebiotics and probiotics prevent pathophysiological 
hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease in the cortex of APP/PS1 mice.

Sarti G(#)(1), Traini C(#)(1), Magni G(2), Attorre S(3), Tognozzi G(1), Calussi 
E(4), Giovannini MG(5), Vannucchi MG(1), Lana D(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, Research Unit of Histology 
and Embryology, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
(2)Cnr-Institute of Applied Physics "Nello Carrara", Sesto Fiorentino, Italy.
(3)Section of Pathological Anatomy, Department of Health Sciences, University of 
Florence, Florence, Italy.
(4)Section of Pathological Anatomy, Careggi University Hospital, Florence, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Health Sciences, Section of Clinical Pharmacology and Oncology, 
University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Dysbiosis is a characteristic of patients with Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). The disbalance between Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria causes 
increased production of beta-amyloid (Aβ) in the gut, which can contribute to 
brain accumulation of Aβ. Recovering microbiota composition with symbiotic 
administration of prebiotics and probiotics may be a strategy to prevent or 
reduce AD symptomathology. The aim of this research was to study whether chronic 
administration of pre- and probiotics modifies the histopathological signs of 
neurodegeneration in the cortex of APP/PS1 mice, a transgenic mouse model of AD. 
We focused on neuritic plaques deposition, neuronal degeneration and glia 
activation.
METHODS: Transgenic (TG) mice and Wild type (WT) littermates were fed daily with 
a diet supplemented with prebiotics (a multi-extract of fibers and plant 
complexes, containing inulin/fruit-oligosaccharides) and probiotics (a 50%-50% 
mixture of Lactobacillus rhamnosus and Lactobacillus paracasei). The treatment 
started at 2 months of age and lasted for 6 months. Controls were WT and TG mice 
fed with a standard diet. All groups were evaluated qualitatively and 
quantitatively by immunofluorescence, confocal microscopy and digital imaging. 
Cortical sections were immunostained for neuritic plaques, neurons, astrocytes, 
microglia, and inflammatory proteins. Qualitative and quantitative analyses were 
carried out by immunofluorescence, confocal microscopy and digital imaging with 
ImageJ software.
RESULTS: Quantitative analyses in TG mice demonstrated intense Aβ load and 
accumulation of neurofilament heavy polypeptide (NHP) in neuritic plaques, 
neuronal degeneration, shrinkage of the cortex, increase of GFAP expression, and 
microglia and astrocytes activation. All these effects were mainly evident in 
cortical Layer 5. The symbiotic treatment with pre- and probiotics decreased Aβ 
deposition and neuritic plaques in the frontoparietal cortex. In addition, the 
treatment decreased the degeneration of neurons, the cortical shrinkage, 
increased GFAP expression, and modified microglia phenomic, decreasing 
significantly microglia activation. The abovementioned effects of the treatment 
were mostly evident in cortical Layer 5.
DISCUSSION: These data confirm that prolonged dietary regimen enriched with pre- 
and probiotics counteracts many of the histopathological hallmarks of AD, and 
poses the bases for a simple, affordable treatment that may help prevent AD.

Copyright © 2025 Sarti, Traini, Magni, Attorre, Tognozzi, Calussi, Giovannini, 
Vannucchi and Lana.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1596469
PMCID: PMC12119559
PMID: 40444050

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


53. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 May 15;17:1579411. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1579411.  eCollection 2025.

Mirodenafil improves cognitive function by reducing microglial activation and 
blood-brain barrier permeability in ApoE4 KI mice.

Park Y(#)(1), Moon S(#)(1), Jung H(2), Park S(2), Kim JW(3), Song DG(1), In 
YH(2), Han SW(2)(4), Sohn JH(2)(4), Lee CH(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, Hallym University, Chuncheon, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Institute of New Frontier Research Team, College of Medicine, Hallym 
University, Chuncheon, Republic of Korea.
(3)AriBio Co., Ltd., Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-Do, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Chuncheon Sacred Heart Hospital, Hallym University 
College of Medicine, Chuncheon, Republic of Korea.
(5)Program of Material Science for Medicine and Pharmaceutics, Hallym 
University, Chuncheon, Republic of Korea.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) has significant public health concerns in 
the aging society. AD can compromise brain function and lead to severe 
neurological abnormalities associated with dementia. The human Apolipoprotein E 
(ApoE4) gene is a strong risk factor for AD. However, comprehensive analyses and 
improvements of mouse models expressing ApoE4 remain largely unexplored.
METHODS: ApoE4 knock-in (KI) mice were used to investigate the role of humanized 
ApoE4 in hippocampal histological changes and cognitive impairment. 
Cerebrovascular perfusion, blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, microgliosis, 
and amyloid-beta 42 (Aβ42) accumulation were examined. Cognitive functions were 
assessed using the Morris water maze, Y-maze, and novel object recognition 
tests. Mirodenafil, a potent and selective phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor 
(PDE5i), was orally administered to ApoE4 KI mice for 4 weeks. An in vitro BBB 
model and BV2 microglial cells were used to investigate endothelial permeability 
and inflammation.
RESULTS: ApoE4 KI mice exhibited not only reduced cerebrovascular perfusion and 
CLN-5 expression but also increased microgliosis and Aβ42 accumulation in the 
hippocampus. These phenomena were accompanied by impaired cognitive functions. 
Mirodenafil administration reversed the histological and behavioral alterations 
induced by ApoE4 KI. In vitro, mirodenafil treatment mitigated Aβ42-induced 
endothelial permeability and lipopolysaccharide-induced microglial inflammation.
DISCUSSION: These findings suggest that mirodenafil enhances cerebrovascular 
function, preserves BBB integrity, and mitigates neuroinflammation in ApoE4 KI 
mice, leading to cognitive improvement. PDE5 inhibition may serve as a promising 
therapeutic approach for addressing ApoE4-associated cerebrovascular and 
cognitive dysfunction.

Copyright © 2025 Park, Moon, Jung, Park, Kim, Song, In, Han, Sohn and Lee.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1579411
PMCID: PMC12119498
PMID: 40443793

Conflict of interest statement: JK is employed by AriBio Co., Ltd. The remaining 
authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial 
or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


54. Front Cell Neurosci. 2025 May 15;19:1553642. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1553642.
 eCollection 2025.

The translational power of Alzheimer's-based organoid models in personalized 
medicine: an integrated biological and digital approach embodying patient 
clinical history.

Dolciotti C(1), Righi M(2), Grecu E(3), Trucas M(3), Maxia C(3), Murtas D(3), 
Diana A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Research and New Technologies in Medicine and 
Surgery, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(2)Clinical Physiology Institute, The Italian National Research Council (CNR), 
Massa, Italy.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative condition characterized 
by a multifaceted interplay of genetic, environmental, and pathological factors. 
Traditional diagnostic and research methods, including neuropsychological 
assessments, imaging, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, have advanced 
our understanding but remain limited by late-stage detection and challenges in 
modeling disease progression. The emergence of three-dimensional (3D) brain 
organoids (BOs) offers a transformative platform for bridging these gaps. BOs 
derived from patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) mimic the 
structural and functional complexities of the human brain. This advancement 
offers an alternative or complementary approach for studying AD pathology, 
including β-amyloid and tau protein aggregation, neuroinflammation, and aging 
processes. By integrating biological complexity with cutting-edge technological 
tools such as organ-on-a-chip systems, microelectrode arrays, and artificial 
intelligence-driven digital twins (DTs), it is hoped that BOs will facilitate 
real-time modeling of AD progression and response to interventions. These models 
capture central nervous system biomarkers and establish correlations with 
peripheral markers, fostering a holistic understanding of disease mechanisms. 
Furthermore, BOs provide a scalable and ethically sound alternative to animal 
models, advancing drug discovery and personalized therapeutic strategies. The 
convergence of BOs and DTs potentially represents a significant shift in AD 
research, enhancing predictive and preventive capacities through precise in 
vitro simulations of individual disease trajectories. This approach underscores 
the potential for personalized medicine, reducing the reliance on invasive 
diagnostics while promoting early intervention. As research progresses, 
integrating sporadic and familial AD models within this framework promises to 
refine our understanding of disease heterogeneity and drive innovations in 
treatment and care.

Copyright © 2025 Dolciotti, Righi, Grecu, Trucas, Maxia, Murtas and Diana.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1553642
PMCID: PMC12119642
PMID: 40443709

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


55. Front Neurol. 2025 May 15;16:1566476. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1566476. 
eCollection 2025.

Low intensity gamma-frequency TMS safely modulates gamma oscillations in 
probable mild Alzheimer's dementia: a randomized 2 × 2 crossover pilot study.

Mimenza-Alvarado AJ(1), Aguilar-Navarro SG(1), Abarca-Jiménez IE(2), 
Vázquez-Villaseñor I(3), Luna-Umanzor DI(3), Dorard C(3), Villafuerte G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine & Neurology, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias 
Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)Escuela Superior de Medicina, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Mexico City, 
Mexico.
(3)Actipulse Neuroscience, Inc., Cambridge, MA, United States.

INTRODUCTION: AD is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
cognitive decline and memory loss. While traditional treatments targeting 
beta-amyloid accumulation have shown limited success, there is a pressing need 
for novel therapeutic approaches. Recent studies have highlighted the role of 
disrupted gamma oscillations in AD pathology, leading to the exploration of 
gamma neuromodulation as a potential therapeutic strategy to modify disease 
progression in individuals with AD dementia. This pilot clinical trial aimed to 
investigate the electrophysiological effects of low intensity gamma transcranial 
magnetic stimulation (gTMS) on gamma oscillations in patients with a diagnosis 
of probable mild AD dementia.
METHODS: Employing a randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled, 2 × 2 crossover 
design, participants underwent a single session of both real low intensity gTMS 
and sham stimulation. EEG recordings and cognitive assessments were conducted 
before and after stimulation to assess changes in brain activity and their 
impact on episodic memory.
RESULTS: We observed statistically significant changes in EEG activity (n = 14), 
indicating transient modulation of gamma oscillations immediately after low 
intensity gTMS. There was no significant improvement in cognition compared to 
baseline scores, but we evidenced a positive correlation between 
electrophysiological changes and cognitive outcome. Importantly, the 
intervention was well-tolerated, with no significant adverse effects reported.
DISCUSSION: Low intensity gTMS has shown the capability to induce significant 
changes in brain activity, particularly in gamma oscillations. These findings 
suggest that low intensity gTMS holds promise as a safe and non-invasive 
therapeutic approach, challenging the conventional belief that high intensity 
magnetic pulses are necessary for effective brain modulation. To corroborate 
these initial findings, further research with extended intervention durations 
and larger, well-defined cohorts of patients with mild AD dementia is essential. 
This will validate the potential benefits of low intensity gTMS on cognitive 
performance in this population.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05784298?term=NCT05784298&rank=1, 
NCT05784298.

Copyright © 2025 Mimenza-Alvarado, Aguilar-Navarro, Abarca-Jiménez, 
Vázquez-Villaseñor, Luna-Umanzor, Dorard and Villafuerte.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1566476
PMCID: PMC12121370
PMID: 40443505

Conflict of interest statement: The authors GV, DL-U, CD, and IV-V, declare that 
they are presently employed by Actipulse Neuroscience, Inc. in the Research and 
Development Department. GV serves as Chief Scientific Officer and has submitted 
patents related to TMS devices. The remaining authors declare that the research 
was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that 
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


56. F1000Res. 2025 May 27;13:773. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.145391.3.
eCollection  2024.

Molecular docking studies and molecular dynamic simulation analysis: To identify 
novel ATP-competitive inhibition of Glycogen synthase kinase-3β for Alzheimer's 
disease.

Shri SR(1), Nayak Y(1), Ranganath Pai S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India.

BACKGROUND: The discovery of an ideal and effective therapy is urgently required 
for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The main pathological hallmarks 
of Alzheimer's disease that appear before the clinical symptoms are 
neurofibrillary tangles, amyloid plaques, brain inflammation, and neuronal 
atrophy throughout the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. GSK-3β (Glycogen 
Synthase Kinase-3β) is regarded as the most important and promising target for 
therapeutic use because GSK-3β expression levels increase with age and are the 
most abundant and hyperactive in the brains of patients with AD. GSK-3β 
activation or upregulation can contribute to neurodegeneration by promoting 
amyloid beta (Aβ) production and tau hyperphosphorylation. Whereas the 
underlying mechanism for abnormal production of GSK-3β in AD brains remains 
unclear.
METHODS: Maestro was used, which is Schrodinger, for our computational 
simulation studies. In the present work, different modules that were used in 
previous studies with a little modification, the modules such as Protein 
Preparation with the help of Protein Preparation Wizard, Ligand Preparation with 
the help of LigPrep, for ADME (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism and 
Excretion) prediction Qikprop was used, for docking studies Glide module was 
used, Binding energy prediction the Prime was used and Molecular dynamic 
simulation (MDs) studies done using Desmond.
RESULTS: Our focus is mainly on an in-silico approach, focusing on library 
generation; first draw an IMID2 (imidazo [1,5-a]pyridine-3-carboxamide) scaffold 
structure at Enamine and subjected it to a substructure search to target the 
receptor grid region (ATP-competitive site) of 6Y9R. They were then subjected to 
various screening processes. Finally, nine compounds were subjected to MDs 
studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Nine compounds showed good results with the most stable 
interactions. Among all the MD studies, the compound (Z3336252116) has shown 
good interaction and a good docking score. Further experiments and studies are 
required to confirm these results.

Copyright: © 2025 Shri SR et al.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.145391.3
PMCID: PMC12121352
PMID: 40443428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.


57. J Chin Med Assoc. 2025 Jul 1;88(7):495-502. doi:
10.1097/JCMA.0000000000001252.  Epub 2025 May 30.

A 2025 update on treatment strategies for the Alzheimer's disease spectrum.

Wu CK(1), Fuh JL(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders Center, Department of Neurology, 
Brown University Health, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Neurological Institute, Taipei Veterans General 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.
(3)School of Medicine, College of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung 
University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.
(4)Brain Research Center, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Taipei, 
Taiwan, ROC.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex and progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
with a continuum of stages ranging from preclinical/asymptomatic phase to severe 
dementia. Over the past decades, significant advances in diagnostic biomarkers 
and disease-modifying therapies have reshaped the treatment landscape. This 
review provides a comprehensive overview of the current treatment paradigm for 
AD in 2025, incorporating the latest developments in pharmacological and 
non-pharmacological interventions. The advent of anti-amyloid immunotherapy, 
including the US Food & Drug Administration (FDA)-approved monoclonal antibodies 
such as lecanemab and donanemab, has proven efficacy in slowing cognitive 
decline in early-stage AD. These therapies mark a change in thinking in AD 
management, emphasizing the importance of early diagnosis and intervention. 
Cholinesterase inhibitors and memantine remain the standard treatments for mild, 
moderate to severe dementia, providing symptomatic relief and functional 
stabilization. Additionally, emerging strategies targeting tau pathology and 
neuroinflammation are under investigation, offering hope for future 
breakthroughs. Beyond pharmacotherapy, this review highlights the importance of 
personalized, multimodal treatment approaches that integrate lifestyle 
modifications, cognitive training, and caregiver support. The updated diagnostic 
framework, incorporating fluid and imaging biomarkers, enables more precise 
staging and individualized treatment plans. Despite these advances, challenges 
still lie in refining patient selection, addressing treatment-related side 
effects, and ensuring accessibility to appropriate therapies. As the field moves 
forward, ongoing clinical trials and real-world evidence will further refine 
treatment strategies. A proactive approach, combining early detection with 
disease-modifying and symptomatic therapies, is essential for improving patient 
outcomes and quality of life. This article synthesizes current knowledge and 
provides a roadmap for clinicians and researchers navigating the evolving 
landscape of AD treatment.

Copyright © 2025, the Chinese Medical Association.

DOI: 10.1097/JCMA.0000000000001252
PMID: 40442885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: Dr. Jong-Ling Fuh, an 
editorial board member at Journal of the Chinese Medical Association , had no 
role in the peer review process of or decision to publish this article. The 
other authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest related to the 
subject matter or materials discussed in this article.


58. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70232. doi: 10.1002/alz.70232.

Feasibility of lifestyle interventions for cognition in adults with low 
education.

Clark DO(1)(2), Xu H(1)(2)(3), Tangney CC(4), Lin AW(5), Risacher SL(6)(7), 
Saykin AJ(6)(7), Considine RV(8), Garringer HJ(7)(9), Moser L(10), Carter A(11), 
Miller CM(1), Sprague B(1)(2), Callahan CM(1), Unverzagt FW(7)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, 
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(2)Indiana University Center for Aging Research at Regenstrief Institute, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(4)Department of Clinical Nutrition, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.
(5)The Hormel Institute, University of Minnesota, Austin, Minnesota, USA.
(6)Center for Neuroimaging, Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, 
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(7)Indiana Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(8)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Indianapolis, Indiana, 
USA.
(9)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(11)Eskenazi Health, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

INTRODUCTION: We report the feasibility and cognitive outcomes of a stage 1b 
randomized trial testing 3 months of home-delivered high polyphenol snacks 
(e.g., nuts, berries) and online speed of processing training among older adults 
with 12 or fewer years of education.
METHODS: One hundred eighty participants were randomized to polyphenol-rich 
snacks and online cognitive training, polyphenol snacks and online control 
games, control snacks and cognitive training, or control snacks and control 
games. The outcomes were feasibility of recruitment, retention, and adherence 
(RRA) and change in a cognitive composite score.
RESULTS: Feasibility goals for RRA were met. Improvements in the cognitive score 
were evident in all groups (effect sizes ranged from 0.15-0.35) but improvements 
did not differ significantly between arms.
DISCUSSION: Dementia prevention trials with longer intervention and follow-up 
focused on adults with limited formal education should be considered given the 
observed cognitive gains in those with elevated risk.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03419052).
HIGHLIGHTS: The study focused on adults with low education; a group with a high 
risk for cognitive decline. Two interventions were tested in a randomized trial 
design that included two controls. Nutrition intervention was designed with 
input from adults with limited education.
PRIMARY OUTCOME: A cognitive composite score was formed from five established 
cognitive tests. The study establishes the feasibility of dementia prevention 
targeting adults with low education.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70232
PMCID: PMC12122255
PMID: 40442881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


59. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70319. doi: 10.1002/alz.70319.

Repeated plasma p-tau217 measurements to monitor clinical progression 
heterogeneity.

Kirsebom BE(1)(2)(3), Gonzalez-Ortiz F(4)(5)(6), Vigneswaran S(7)(8)(9), Bråthen 
G(10)(11), Skogseth RE(12)(13), Gísladóttir B(3), Harrison P(14), Jarholm 
JA(3)(15), Pålhaugen L(3)(15), Rongve A(16)(17), Selnes P(18), Tjims B(8)(9), 
Turton M(14), Van Harten AC(8)(9), Waterloo K(1)(2), Zetterberg 
H(4)(5)(19)(20)(21)(22), Fladby T(3)(15), Blennow K(4)(5)(23)(24).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital of North Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(2)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Health Sciences, The Arctic University 
of Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(3)Department of Neurology, Akershus University Hospital, Lørenskog, Norway.
(4)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Lab, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)Department of diagnostics, Neurocode USA Inc, Bellingham, Washington, USA.
(7)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Clinical Chemistry, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(8)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology Department, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(9)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(10)Department of Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, University Hospital of 
Trondheim, Trondheim, Norway.
(11)Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, 
Norway.
(12)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Haraldsplass Deaconess Hospital, Bergen, 
Norway.
(13)Department of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway.
(14)Bioventix Plc, 7 Romans Business Park, East Street, Farnham, Surrey, UK.
(15)Institute for Clinical Medicine, Campus Ahus, University of Oslo, Oslo, 
Norway.
(16)Department of Neuropsychology, Haugesund Hospital, Haugesund, Norway.
(17)Department of Clinical Medicine (K1), University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(18)Department of Research, Akershus University Hospital, Lørenskog, Norway.
(19)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(20)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(21)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(22)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(23)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(24)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, P.R. China.

INTRODUCTION: Heterogeneity of clinical progression in Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
complicates the assessment of disease progression and treatment effects in 
trials. This study evaluates the potential of plasma phosphorylated tau-217 
(p-tau217) to capture this heterogeneity.
METHODS: We used k-means clustering to analyze cognitive trajectories in amyloid 
beta -positive (Aβ+) cognitively normal (CN) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) 
participants from two independent cohorts. Cohort 1 included 186 participants 
(71 CN, 115 MCI; 507 observations) and Cohort 2 included 207 participants (64 
CN, 144 MCI; 781 observations), both with up to 10 years of follow-up.
RESULTS: Three progression clusters emerged in both cohorts: stable cognition, 
slow decline, and rapid decline-each including cases initially classified as CN 
or MCI. Baseline plasma p-tau217 was linked to progression risk in both cohorts, 
whereas longitudinal increases in Cohort 1 were steepest in rapid decliners.
DISCUSSION: Plasma p-tau217 may aid in capturing clinical heterogeneity and 
support stratification and monitoring of disease progression in clinical trials.
HIGHLIGHTS: k-Means found stable, slow, and rapid cognitive decline clusters in 
amyloid beta-positive (Aβ+) cases. Higher baseline plasma phosphorylated tau-217 
(p-tau217) levels predicted faster cognitive decline. Longitudinal increases in 
plasma p-tau217 were steepest in rapid decliners. Plasma p-tau217 tracks 
clinical progression heterogeneity in Aβ+ cases. Cognitive stage and amyloid 
alone may miss severity and risk in early-stage Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70319
PMCID: PMC12122256
PMID: 40442871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: B. E. K. has served as a consultant for Biogen 
and medical advisory boards for Biogen and Eli Lilly. H. Z. has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merry Life, 
Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, 
Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD; and is a 
co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). K.B. has served 
as a consultant and at advisory boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, 
Beckman‐Coulter, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Neurimmune, 
Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Quanterix, Roche Diagnostics, Sanofi and Siemens 
Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and 
Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials and participated in 
educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche 
Diagnostics; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB 
(BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work 
presented in this article. T.F. has served as a consultant and on advisory 
boards for Biogen, Eisai, Novo Nordisk, Eli Lilly, and Roche. R.E.S. has served 
on advisory boards for Eisai and Eli Lilly. A.V.H. has participated in 
educational programs for Eisai and an educational advisory board for Lilly. The 
remainder of the authors report no relevant conflict of interest relevant for 
this publication. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting 
Information.


60. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2025 May 29;13(1):121. doi:
10.1186/s40478-025-02022-y.

Acute targeting of N-terminal tau protein has long-lasting beneficial effects in 
Tg2576 APP/Aβ mouse model by reducing cognitive impairment, cerebral 
Aβ-amyloidosis, synaptic remodeling and microgliosis later in life.

Latina V(1)(2), De Introna M(3)(4), Malerba F(2)(5), Florio R(2), Balzamino 
BO(6), Di Natale G(7), Sciacca MFM(7), Pappalardo G(7), Micera A(6), Pignataro 
A(1)(3), Calissano P(#)(2), Amadoro G(#)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Translational Pharmacology (IFT)-National Research Council 
(CNR), Via Fosso del Cavaliere 100, 00133, Rome, Italy.
(2)European Brain Research Institute (EBRI), Viale Regina Elena 295, 00161, 
Rome, Italy.
(3)Centro Di Ricerca Europeo Sul Cervello (CERC), IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation 
(FSL), Via Fosso del Fiorano 43-44, 00143, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Systems Medicine, University of Tor Vergata, Via Montpellier, 
1, 00133, Rome, Italy.
(5)Institute of Nanotechnology Campus Ecotekne- National Research Council (CNR), 
Via Monteroni, 73100, Lecce, Italy.
(6)Research and Development Laboratory for Biochemical, Molecular and Cellular 
Applications in Ophthalmological Science, IRCCS-Fondazione Bietti, Via Santo 
Stefano Rotondo, 6, 00184, Rome, Italy.
(7)Institute of Crystallography (IC)-National Research Council (CNR), Via Paolo 
Gaifami 18, 95126, Catania, Italy.
(8)Institute of Translational Pharmacology (IFT)-National Research Council 
(CNR), Via Fosso del Cavaliere 100, 00133, Rome, Italy. g.amadoro@inmm.cnr.it.
(9)European Brain Research Institute (EBRI), Viale Regina Elena 295, 00161, 
Rome, Italy. g.amadoro@inmm.cnr.it.
(#)Contributed equally

Even though the number of patients suffering from Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is 
rapidly growing worldwide, only a few symptomatic treatments have been approved 
for clinical use, pointing out the urgent need for more effective 
disease-modifying therapies that actually alter the progression of this 
neurodegenerative disorder which is characterized by co-occurence of both 
Amyloid beta (Aβ) and tau neuropathologies. Preclinical and clinical evidence 
suggests that a link between Aβ and tau drives the entire continuum of AD 
pathobiology. 12A12 is a monoclonal antibody (mAb) which offers neuroprotection 
into two transgenic lines of AD, including Tg2576 that overexpresses Swedish 
mutation (KM670/671NL) of Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP, isoform 695) and 3xTg 
(APP Swedish, MAPT P301L, and PSEN1 M146V), by targeting the 20-22kDa N-terminal 
tau fragments (NH2htau). In particular, acute (over 14 days with 4 doses), 
intravenous injection of 12A12mAb leads to significant improvement of cognitive, 
biochemical and histopathological AD signs in symptomatic 6-month-old Tg2576, a 
well-established transgenic mouse model that mimics the human amyloidosis with 
an age-dependent Aβ accumulation/aggregation and plaque deposition. Here, we 
report that Tg2576 mice, immunized with 12A12mAb at 6 months of age and returned 
to their home cage for additional 3 months, exhibit preserved spatial memory 
despite the anticipated interruption of antibody administration (discontinuous 
treatment). This enduring beneficial effect on memory deficit (up to 90 days 
after the last injection) is accompanied by normalization in the synaptic 
imbalance and microgliosis along with decrease of the most toxic A11-positive 
prefibrillar oligomers and inverse increase in 4kDa monomeric form(s) of Aβ 
1-42. These findings reveal that: (i) soluble, pathogenetic tau specie(s) 
located at the N-terminal domain of protein early synergizes with Aβ in driving 
the progression of AD neuropathology; (ii) transient immunoneutralization of the 
NH2htau following short-term treatment with 12A12mAb exerts preventive, 
long-lasting neuroprotective effects, at least in part by interfering at 
"pre-plaque" stage with the progressive deposition of insoluble, fibrillar Aβ 
via a shift of its aggregation pathway into its less harmful, unaggregated 
monomeric forms. Taken together, these findings represent a strong rationale for 
the advancement of 12A12mAb to clinical stage aiming at preventing the 
Aβ-dependent neurodegeneration by lowering the cerebral levels of NH2htau in 
humans suffering from chronic, slow-progressing AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-025-02022-y
PMCID: PMC12123992
PMID: 40442822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal experiments were complied with the ARRIVE guidelines and 
were carried out in accordance with the etical guidelines, the European Council 
Directive (2010/63/EU) and the Italian Animal Welfare legislation (D.L. 
26/2014). The experimental approval was obtained from the Italian Ministry of 
Health (Authorization n. 1038–2020-PR; Authorization n. 419/2023-PR). This study 
was carried out according to the principles of the 3Rs (Replacement, Reduction 
and Refinement) to minimize animal suffering and to reduce the number of animals 
used. Consent for publication: All authors have approved the manuscript and 
agree with its submission. Competing interests: The authors declare there are no 
competing interests.61. Neurotox Res. 2025 May 30;43(3):25. doi: 10.1007/s12640-025-00747-1.

Melatonin Alleviates Erastin-Induced Cell Death by Inhibiting Ferroptosis and 
Amyloid Precursor Protein Processing in Neuronal Cell Lines.

Wongjaikam S(1)(2), Siengdee P(1), Somnus A(1), Govitrapong P(3).

Author information:
(1)Applied Biological Sciences: Environmental Health Program, Chulabhorn 
Graduate Institute, Lak Si, Bangkok, 10210, Thailand.
(2)Cell and Animal Model Unit, Institute of Nutrition, Mahidol University, 
Salaya, Phuttamonthon, Nakhon Pathom, 73170, Thailand.
(3)Applied Biological Sciences: Environmental Health Program, Chulabhorn 
Graduate Institute, Lak Si, Bangkok, 10210, Thailand. piyarat@cgi.ac.th.

Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent and membrane lipid peroxidation-mediated form 
of programmed or regulated cell death. A number of recent studies have 
demonstrated that ferroptosis contributes to Alzheimer's disease (AD)-mediated 
nerve cell death. Melatonin demonstrates strong antioxidant properties and 
offers protective benefits for the brain in the context of AD. However, it is 
not fully known whether melatonin protects against ferroptosis and whether 
ferroptosis affects amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing. In this study, 
we studied the effects of melatonin on SH-SY5Y cells-induced ferroptosis using 
erastin, and ferrostatin-1 was used as a ferroptosis inhibitor. To confirm the 
occurrence of ferroptosis, we conducted measurements of cell cytotoxicity, 
intracellular iron, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE). 
The protein expressions that were regulated by either ferroptosis or APP 
processing were measured. Our results revealed that erastin increased 
intracellular iron levels, ROS, and 4-HNE lipid peroxidation in SH-SY5Y cells, 
resulting in an increased percentage of cell death. Erastin disrupted the 
regulation of proteins involved in ferroptosis and increased the production of 
amyloid beta (Aβ) through APP proteolysis. Following melatonin treatment, 
intracellular iron, ROS, and 4-HNE levels were significantly reduced. 
Additionally, the cystine/glutamate antiporter (system xc-) and glutathione 
peroxidase 4 (GPX4) were increased, and acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family 
member 4 (ACSL4) was diminished. APP, β-site-APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), 
presenilin 1 (PS1) and Aβ production were alleviated in erastin-treated SH-SY5Y 
cells. In conclusion, melatonin effectively inhibits ferroptosis-related cell 
death and AD-like conditions induced by erastin in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma 
cell lines.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12640-025-00747-1
PMID: 40442550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


62. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2025;1477:139-203. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-89525-8_6.

Microbiome: A Key Regulator of Body-Brain Interactions.

O'Riordan KJ(1), Aburto MR(1)(2), Nagpal J(1)(3), Clarke G(1)(4), Cryan 
JF(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Neuroscience, University College Cork, Cork, 
Ireland.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, School of Medicine, and School 
of Pharmacy, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurobehavioural Science, University College 
Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(5)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland. 
j.cryan@ucc.ie.
(6)Department of Anatomy and Neuroscience, University College Cork, Cork, 
Ireland. j.cryan@ucc.ie.

The gut microbiota, consisting of trillions of microorganisms, plays a critical 
role in regulating host physiology, including metabolism, immune responses, and 
brain function. This chapter examines the microbiota-gut-brain axis, a 
multifaceted bidirectional communication system connecting gut microbial 
activity with central nervous system processes through immune pathways, 
metabolic byproducts, and neural circuits like the vagus nerve. The evolution of 
the gut microbiota throughout an individual's life-from early developmental 
influences like birth mode and antibiotic use to changes associated with aging 
and neurodegenerative conditions-highlights its dynamic nature. The chapter 
reviews experimental approaches and microbiome-based interventions to 
demonstrate the influence of gut microbiota on neurological conditions such as 
autism spectrum disorder, anxiety, and Alzheimer's disease. Finally, it 
emphasises the importance of advancing microbiome-targeted therapies, 
integrating emerging technologies, and clinical trials to develop personalised 
strategies for enhancing brain health through gut microbiome modulation.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-031-89525-8_6
PMID: 40442386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Sci Rep. 2025 May 29;15(1):18944. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-03931-7.

Amyloid-β-induced alteration of fast and localized calcium elevations in 
cultured astrocytes.

Nakata K(#)(1)(2)(3), Sakamoto J(#)(2)(3), Otomo K(2)(3)(4), Sato M(5), Ishii 
H(1)(2)(3), Tsutsumi M(2)(3), Enoki R(6)(7)(8), Nemoto T(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, The Graduate University for Advanced Studies, 
SOKENDAI, Okazaki, Japan.
(2)Division of Biophotonics, National Institute for Physiological Sciences 
(NIPS), National Institutes of Natural Sciences (NINS), Okazaki, Japan.
(3)Biophotonics Research Group, Exploratory Research Center on Life and Living 
Systems (ExCELLS), NINS, Okazaki, Japan.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Systems Biomedicine, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Laboratory of Applied Molecular Entomology, Division of Applied Bioscience, 
Research Faculty of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.
(6)School of Life Science, The Graduate University for Advanced Studies, 
SOKENDAI, Okazaki, Japan. enoki@nips.ac.jp.
(7)Division of Biophotonics, National Institute for Physiological Sciences 
(NIPS), National Institutes of Natural Sciences (NINS), Okazaki, Japan. 
enoki@nips.ac.jp.
(8)Biophotonics Research Group, Exploratory Research Center on Life and Living 
Systems (ExCELLS), NINS, Okazaki, Japan. enoki@nips.ac.jp.
(9)School of Life Science, The Graduate University for Advanced Studies, 
SOKENDAI, Okazaki, Japan. tn@nips.ac.jp.
(10)Division of Biophotonics, National Institute for Physiological Sciences 
(NIPS), National Institutes of Natural Sciences (NINS), Okazaki, Japan. 
tn@nips.ac.jp.
(11)Biophotonics Research Group, Exploratory Research Center on Life and Living 
Systems (ExCELLS), NINS, Okazaki, Japan. tn@nips.ac.jp.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that causes 
cognitive decline. Uncovering the mechanisms of neurodegeneration in the early 
stages is essential to establish a treatment for AD. Recent research has 
proposed the hypothesis that amyloid-β (Aβ) oligomers elicit an excessive 
glutamate release from astrocytes toward synapses through intracellular free 
Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) elevations in astrocytes, finally resulting in neuronal dendritic 
spine loss. Under physiological conditions, astrocytic [Ca2+]i elevations range 
spatially from microdomains to network-wide propagation and temporally from 
milliseconds to tens of seconds. Astrocytic localized and fast [Ca2+]i 
elevations might correlate with glutamate release; however, the Aβ-induced 
alteration of localized, fast astrocytic [Ca2+]i elevations remains unexplored. 
In this study, we quantitatively investigated the Aβ dimers-induced changes in 
the spatial and temporal patterns of [Ca2+]i in a primary culture of astrocytes 
by two-photon excitation spinning-disk confocal microscopy. The frequency of 
fast [Ca2+]i elevations occurring locally in astrocytes (≤ 0.5 s, ≤ 35 µm2) and 
[Ca2+]i event occupancy relative to cell area significantly increased after 
exposure to Aβ dimers. The effect of Aβ dimers appeared above 500 nM, and these 
Aβ dimers-induced [Ca2+]i elevations were primarily mediated by a metabotropic 
purinergic receptor (P2Y1 receptor) and Ca2+ release from the endoplasmic 
reticulum. Our findings suggest that the Aβ dimers-induced alterations and 
hyperactivation of astrocytic [Ca2+]i is a candidate cellular mechanism in the 
early stages of AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-03931-7
PMCID: PMC12122671
PMID: 40442293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


64. Sci Rep. 2025 May 29;15(1):18914. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-04433-2.

Facilitating DNAzyme transport across the blood-brain barrier with nanoliposome 
technology.

Hoseinifar MJ(#)(1), Aghaz F(2)(3), Asadi Z(#)(4)(5), Asadi P(1), Nedaei SE(6), 
Arkan E(1), Pourmotabbed A(6), Bahrami G(7), Pourmotabbed T(8).

Author information:
(1)Nano Drug Delivery Research Center, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(2)Nano Drug Delivery Research Center, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran. Faranak_aghaz@yahoo.com.
(3)Nano Drug Delivery Research Center, Faculty of Pharmacy, Health Technology 
Institute, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran. 
Faranak_aghaz@yahoo.com.
(4)Students Research Committee, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(5)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(6)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Kermanshah University of 
Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(7)Medical Biology Research Center, Health Technology Institute, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(8)Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Biochemistry, Health Science 
Center, University of Tennessee, Memphis, TN, USA. tpourmot@uthsc.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Recently, oligonucleotide post-transcriptional gene silencing, antisense 
oligonucleotides, small interfering RNA, ribozymes, and Deoxyribozymes 
(DNAzymes) have been used to tackle neurodegenerative diseases such as 
Alzheimer's and polyglutamine diseases like Huntington's disease. However, the 
primary obstacle to the therapeutic effectiveness of these oligonucleotides is 
the blood-brain barrier (BBB), a crucial protective mechanism limiting drug 
penetration into brain cells. In this study, we generated a DNAzyme-loaded 
nanoliposome (DNZ-NLP) as a drug delivery system to effectively deliver and 
release the DNAzymes to the brain. The investigation of physicochemical 
characteristics of fabricated nanoliposomes, particularly size, morphology, and 
surface charge, revealed that the size of DNZ-NLPs was ~ 68 nm, an optimum size 
for brain delivery. Cellular uptake and cytocompatibility studies using SH-SY5Y 
human neuroblastoma cells demonstrated that both blank nanoliposomes (B-NLPs) 
and DNZ-NLPs were cytocompatible, and DNZ-NLPs had a stable biphasic release 
profile in 48 h. Most importantly, about 60% of intravenously administered 
DNZ-NLPs to the healthy mouse were found in the brains of the animals. These 
findings confirmed that DNZ-NLPs passed the BBB. The controlled release of 
DNAzymes, the maximal cytocompatibility, and significantly improved BBB 
permeability suggest that our DNZ-NLPs offer a promising formulation for 
delivering all types of oligonucleotides to the brain for neurodegenerative 
disease treatments.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-04433-2
PMCID: PMC12122844
PMID: 40442260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


65. Sci Rep. 2025 May 29;15(1):18890. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-03055-y.

Temporal trends in sex differences in dementia care-results from the Swedish 
registry for cognitive/dementia disorders, SveDem.

Abzhandadze T(1)(2), Hoang MT(3)(4), Raaschou P(5)(6), Norgren J(3), Mo M(3), 
Molnar C(7), Xu H(3), Kananen L(4)(5)(6), Åkerman M(3)(8), Religa D(3), 
Eriksdotter M(3)(8), Garcia-Ptacek S(3)(8).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Karolinska Institutet, NEO, Blickagången 16, 141 52, Stockholm, 
Sweden. tamar.abzhandadze.2@ki.se.
(2)Department of Occupational Therapy and Physiotherapy, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Bruna Stråket 11B, 41346, Gothenburg, Sweden. 
tamar.abzhandadze.2@ki.se.
(3)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Karolinska Institutet, NEO, Blickagången 16, 141 52, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
NEO Blickagången 16, 141 52, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Faculty of Social Sciences (Health Sciences) and Gerontology Research Center, 
Tampere University, Kalevantie 4, 33100, Tampere, Finland.
(6)Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Clinical Epidemiology Division, Department of 
Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, 171 77, Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, 
NEO Blickagången 16, 141 52, Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Hälsovägen 13, 
141 57, Huddinge, Sweden.

The Swedish Registry for Cognitive/Dementia Disorders (SveDem) follows the 
quality and equity of dementia care across Sweden. In this study, we 
investigated temporal trends in sex-based differences in the provision of 
dementia care. Outcomes were diagnostic work-up, assessments performed by health 
care professionals, medication use, and social support (defined as initiating 
contact with a social worker and/or support to relatives). Revisions in dementia 
diagnosis between baseline and follow-up were evaluated as a marker of 
diagnostic stability. We included 100,534 individuals diagnosed with dementia 
between 2008 and 2021 (median age 80 years, 58% women). Dementia registrations 
rose from 2008 to 2014, then declined after 2015. Alzheimer's dementia was more 
frequent in women than men (35% versus 17%), while vascular dementia was less 
frequent (17% versus 21%). Small differences were observed in dementia care 
outcomes between sexes. Where differences reached statistical significance, 
effect sizes were minimal. Dementia diagnosis was revised in 5% of men and 4% of 
women over a median period of 11 months between baseline and first follow-up. 
Our results revealed negligible temporal trends in sex-based differences in 
dementia care among individuals included in the SveDem. However, as SveDem 
covers only about one third of Sweden's dementia population, findings may not 
fully represent national trends.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-03055-y
PMCID: PMC12122826
PMID: 40442168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


66. Neurol Res. 2025 Oct;47(10):1013-1022. doi: 10.1080/01616412.2025.2511095.
Epub  2025 May 29.

APOE-mediated associations of promoter variants of GRIN1 and GRIN2B with 
behavioral symptoms and age at onset of Alzheimer's disease dementia.

de Oliveira FF(1), de Almeida TE(2), Cardoso AF(3), Faria TC(4), Souza GS(4), de 
Almeida SS(2), Mazzotti DR(5)(6), Chen ES(4), Smith MC(4), Ferreira Bertolucci 
PH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Escola Paulista de Medicina, 
Federal University of São Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Department of Biophysics, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Federal University of 
São Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Psychobiology, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Federal University 
of São Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Department of Morphology and Genetics, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Federal 
University of São Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Division of Medical Informatics, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas 
City, KS, USA.
(6)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Department of 
Internal Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine associations of alleles of rs11146020 (GRIN1) and 
rs3764028 (GRIN2B), encoding subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) 
receptor, with the age at Alzheimer's disease dementia onset and with behavioral 
symptoms in each dementia stage, mediated by APOE (apolipoprotein E gene) ε4 
carriership.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study involving consecutive outpatients with 
Alzheimer's disease dementia assessed for demographic features, Clinical 
Dementia Rating, and the Neuropsychiatric Inventory, genotyped for rs7412 and 
rs429358 (APOE, Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reactions), rs11146020 and rs3764028 
(Polymerase Chain Reactions). Genetic variants were associated with the age at 
dementia onset, and with behavioral symptoms at each dementia stage (adjusted 
for sex, age at dementia onset, and psychotropic drug therapy).
RESULTS: Considering 210 patients: 68.1% were women, 52.4% were APOE-ε4 
carriers, all single nucleotide polymorphisms in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. 
APOE-ε4/ε4 carriers had earlier dementia onset, as well as carriers of 
rs11146020-G or rs3764028-C, particularly when they were APOE-ε4 non-carriers, 
p < 0.001. Mildly impaired rs11146020-G carriers had less aberrant motor 
behavior when they were APOE-ε4 carriers (p = 0.044). For moderately impaired 
rs3764028-A carriers, APOE-ε4 carriers had higher Neuropsychiatric Inventory 
total scores (p = 0.001), while APOE-ε4 non-carriers had more delusions 
(p = 0.003). Still in moderate dementia, rs11146020-C carriers had more aberrant 
motor behavior when they were APOE-ε4 carriers (p = 0.032), and rs11146020-G 
carriers had less apathy (p = 0.039) and more disinhibition (p = 0.032) when 
they were APOE-ε4 carriers. No associations survived corrections for false 
discovery rates in severe dementia.
CONCLUSION: Alleles rs11146020-G and rs3764028-C lead to earlier dementia onset 
with a mostly milder disease course while softening the behavioral burden.

DOI: 10.1080/01616412.2025.2511095
PMID: 40441773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 5;1002:177776. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177776.
Epub  2025 May 27.

Towards zebrafish model applications in drug discovery targeting central nervous 
system diseases and neurotoxicity assessment.

Li H(1), Li A(2), Jin H(3), Bian X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, 
Jinan, Shandong, 250012, China.
(3)New Drug Safety Evaluation Center, Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100050, 
China; Beijing Union-Genious Pharmaceutical Technology, Ltd., Beijing, 100176, 
China; NMPA Key Laboratory for Safety Research and Evaluation of Innovative 
Drug, Beijing, 102206, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China. Electronic address: bxl70029@hotmail.com.

Zebrafish have emerged as a pivotal model for drug discovery targeting central 
nervous system (CNS) diseases and neurotoxicity assessment, leveraging their 
genetic, anatomical, and functional similarities to humans. Despite their 
growing utilization, comprehensive reviews integrating both applications are 
scarce. Critical challenges persist in standardizing models and improving the 
accuracy and reliability of experimental outcomes. This review compares the 
human and zebrafish CNS, highlighting sex-specific difference, examines 
behavioural assays for disease modeling and neurotoxicity studies. It focuses on 
zebrafish application in drug discovery for stroke and Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
and neurotoxicity assessment, highlighting their preclinical value. To address 
ongoing challenges, further efforts should prioritize standardized guidelines, 
improved reproducibility and advanced genetic engineering to optimize zebrafish 
models. These advancements will solidify zebrafish as an indispensable tool for 
accelerating CNS drug development and neurotoxicity evaluation, addressing 
critical global health challenges.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177776
PMID: 40441589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


68. Exp Neurol. 2025 Sep;391:115322. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115322. Epub
2025  May 27.

Osteocalcin modulates Abeta42 aggregation to aid in amyloid reduction in mouse 
models of Alzheimer's disease.

Vijayan V(1), Siddique IA(2), Gupta S(2), Chopra EM(2), Raj N(3), Surolia A(4), 
Gupta S(5).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Science Lab, National Institute of Immunology, Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, 
JNU Complex, New Delhi 110067, India; Department of Biochemistry, University of 
Kerala, Kariavattom Campus, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala 695 581, India.
(2)Molecular Science Lab, National Institute of Immunology, Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, 
JNU Complex, New Delhi 110067, India.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Kerala, Kariavattom Campus, 
Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala 695 581, India.
(4)Molecular Biophysics Unit, Indian Institute of Sciences, Bangalore, India.
(5)Molecular Science Lab, National Institute of Immunology, Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, 
JNU Complex, New Delhi 110067, India. Electronic address: sarika@nii.ac.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease 
characterized by overexpression of amyloid-beta in the brain, particularly the 
toxic Abeta-42 form. Recent studies have identified osteocalcin, a peptide 
traditionally associated with bone, to modulate cognitive function in the AD 
brain. Osteocalcin exists in two forms: the undercarboxylated (uOC) and 
carboxylated (cOC) forms. This study investigates the role of uOC in modulating 
Abeta42 aggregation and its potential therapeutic implications for AD. 
Administration of uOC, but not cOC, improved both spatial learning and 
exploratory behavior of 5xFAD transgenic Alzheimer mice. Further investigation 
showed that uOC reduced the level of insoluble Abeta42 in the brain and 
increased the level of soluble Abeta42. There was increase in mRNA levels of 
CD36 in uOC treated 5xFAD transgenic brain alongside upregulation of 
neuroprotectants like Adipoq and Ahsg (fetuin). We explored the mechanisms 
underlying the influence of uOC on Aβ42 dynamics and understood that uOC 
interacts with Glu residues to form non-toxic early tube-like intermediates 
(A-O) before advancing to late mature Abeta42 fibrils. These intermediates 
enable Abeta42 uptake by glial cells by upregulating the cell surface expression 
of CD36 and reducing TNF-alpha production. Collectively, the study sheds light 
on the fact that uOC modulates Abeta42 dynamics and this interaction is 
warranted for Abeta42 uptake and clearance. The study provides a novel dimension 
for the treatment of amyloid disorders like AD.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115322
PMID: 40441521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests. Indian Patent 393,755 date of 
grant: 31-03-2022, US Patent US 11,447,534 date of grant 20-09-2022. Applicant 
is National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi.


69. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Jun 26;350:120052. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120052.
Epub  2025 May 27.

Therapeutic potential of genus Polygonatum in common neuropsychiatric disorders: 
The revival of an ancient remedy in modern medicine.

Li B(1), Wang J(2), Wang B(1), Wang X(3), Zhu G(4), Yang S(5).

Author information:
(1)Center for Xin'an Medicine and Modernization of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
of IHM, Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology (Brain diseases), Anhui University 
of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China; Key Laboratory of Xin'an Medicine, 
The Ministry of Education, Anhui University of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230038, 
China.
(2)The Second Affiliated Hospital of Anhui University of Chinese Medicine, 
Hefei, 230061, China.
(3)Center for Xin'an Medicine and Modernization of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
of IHM, Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology (Brain diseases), Anhui University 
of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China; Key Laboratory of Xin'an Medicine, 
The Ministry of Education, Anhui University of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230038, 
China. Electronic address: wangxuncui@163.com.
(4)Center for Xin'an Medicine and Modernization of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
of IHM, Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology (Brain diseases), Anhui University 
of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China; Key Laboratory of Xin'an Medicine, 
The Ministry of Education, Anhui University of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230038, 
China. Electronic address: guoqizhu@gmail.com.
(5)The Second Affiliated Hospital of Anhui University of Chinese Medicine, 
Hefei, 230061, China. Electronic address: shaojieyang20@hotmail.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Polygonatum is a genus within the family 
Asparagaceae, widely utilized in traditional medicine. Modern studies have 
substantiated its pharmacological properties, including anti-aging, 
neuroprotective, immunomodulatory, anti-diabetic, memory-enhancing, 
anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant effects. Recently, research on Polygonatum in 
the neuropsychiatric disorders has increased.
AIM OF STUDY: This review aims to provide a comprehensive summary of the 
medicinal plants and prescriptions from Polygonatum in the neuropsychiatric 
disorders, chemical components, and pharmacological and toxicological research 
evidence. It provides an extensive reference for the development of Polygonatum 
medicinal resources and the advancement of research in neuropsychiatric 
therapeutics.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature review was conducted using databases such as 
PubMed, Science Direct, Web of Science, and CNKI, along with sources like the 
"Chinese Pharmacopoeia" and other herbal medicine books. Keywords such as 
"Polygonatum", "neurological disorders", "Alzheimer's disease", and "toxicity" 
were employed to collate evidence of the traditional therapeutic effects, 
phytochemistry, pharmacology, and toxicology of Polygonatum species.
RESULTS: The genus Polygonatum comprises 86 species, of which 36 are medicinally 
utilized. There are 47 prescriptions containing Polygonatum species relevant to 
the prevention and treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders. A total of 427 
compounds have been isolated from this genus, including 83 polysaccharides, 176 
saponins, 83 flavonoids, 47 alkaloids, and 38 other components. The 
pharmacological actions of Polygonatum herbs include anti-aging, 
neuroprotection, sleep promotion, immune modulation, anti-fatigue, 
anti-diabetic, memory enhancement, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant effects, 
showing improvement in conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, vascular dementia, depression, sleep disorders, and post-traumatic 
stress disorder, with no apparent toxicity.
CONCLUSION: Polygonatum herbs hold potential as therapeutic agents for 
neuropsychiatric disorders, presenting significant implications for the 
development of neurological drugs and the utilization of medicinal plant 
resources.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120052
PMID: 40441463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


70. J Mol Biol. 2025 Sep 1;437(17):169231. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2025.169231. Epub
2025  May 27.

A key region of Tau that is able to drive assembly and modulate inhibition by 
Hydromethylthionine.

Al-Hilaly YK(1), Rickard JE(2), Simpson M(3), Storey JMD(4), Harrington CR(5), 
Wischik CM(5), Serpell LC(6).

Author information:
(1)Sussex Neuroscience, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex, Falmer, E 
Sussex BN1 9QG, United Kingdom; Chemistry Department, College of Science, 
Mustansiriyah University, Baghdad, Iraq.
(2)Institute of Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition, University of 
Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB25 2ZP, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB24 3UE, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB24 3UE, United 
Kingdom; TauRx Therapeutics Ltd., Aberdeen AB24 5RP, United Kingdom.
(5)Institute of Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition, University of 
Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB25 2ZP, United Kingdom; TauRx Therapeutics Ltd., Aberdeen 
AB24 5RP, United Kingdom.
(6)Sussex Neuroscience, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex, Falmer, E 
Sussex BN1 9QG, United Kingdom. Electronic address: L.C.Serpell@sussex.ac.uk.

Tau297-391 (dGAE) forms paired helical filaments in vitro that resemble those 
deposited in Alzheimer's disease brain tissue. We have previously shown that 
hydromethylthionine (HMT) has the ability to inhibit dGAE self-assembly at 
sub-stoichiometric ratios. Here, we examined two regions of tau within the core 
filament-forming region that possess high self-assembly propensity sequences and 
have explored their ability to form filaments and whether their self-assembly 
can be inhibited by HMT. We confirm that tau306-323 self-assembles to form 
filaments but that fibrillogenesis is not inhibited by HMT. Previous work by 
others has shown that tau350-362 (PAM4) forms assemblies that recapitulate the 
C-shaped structure of paired helical filaments. Here, a chiral spectral circular 
dichroism fingerprint shows that HMT binds to tau350-362 and we reveal that HMT 
inhibits assembly. We conclude that the region important for assembly and 
inhibition is formed by the inner C-shaped region of tau and suggest that the 
central region involved in filament assembly may associate with HMT to prevent 
self-assembly.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2025.169231
PMID: 40441413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: JMDS, CRH and CMW declare that they 
are officers in TauRx Therapeutics Ltd. MS, JMDS, CRH, CMW, and LCS are named 
inventors on patent applications relating to HMT and tau protein.


71. Neurology. 2025 Jun 24;104(12):e213775. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213775.
Epub  2025 May 29.

Changes in Daily Functioning in Association With Tau and Amyloid Among 
Unimpaired Older Adults With and Without Elevated Amyloid.

Dubbelman MA(1)(2), Liu A(3), Donohue MC(3), Langford O(3), Raman R(3), Rentz 
DM(1)(2), Amariglio R(1)(2), Sperling RA(1)(2), Aisen PS(3), Marshall GA(1)(2); 
as the A4 Study team.

Author information:
(1)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Department of Neurology, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School.
(2)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School; and.
(3)Alzheimer Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University 
of Southern California, San Diego, CA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Everyday functioning declines gradually over time in 
Alzheimer disease (AD), with the earliest changes potentially occurring at the 
preclinical stage. We investigated how changes in everyday functioning relate to 
(changes in) amyloid and tau in a large sample of cognitively unimpaired older 
adults, most of whom had elevated amyloid levels at the start of the study.
METHODS: This prospective study included participants from a 240-week randomized 
controlled trial of an anti-amyloid drug, solanezumab, and individuals who 
screen-failed because of a negative amyloid PET scan. A subset (n = 434) 
underwent repeated tau PET scans. Participants and their study partners 
completed the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living 
Prevention Instrument multiple times during the double-blind phase of the trial. 
Using generalized least-squares models, fit by restricted maximum likelihood, we 
analyzed how changes in everyday functioning related to amyloid and tau PET. We 
also correlated changes in amyloid and tau PET with changes in everyday 
functioning.
RESULTS: A total of 1,707 participants (71.5 ± 4.7 years, 60% female) showed a 
marginal decline in everyday functioning. Among individuals with elevated 
amyloid, those with the highest levels of neocortical and medial temporal tau 
showed the largest decline in everyday functioning, as reported by the 
participants and their study partners. Increases in neocortical and medial 
temporal tau correlated moderately (correlation coefficient ranging from -0.2 to 
-0.5) with a decline in ADCS ADL-PI scores. Functional changes were not evident 
with amyloid alone. At the item level, participants and their study partners 
were most likely to report increased difficulty at the last visit with 
completing complex activities and selecting and paying for items when shopping.
DISCUSSION: Higher tau levels are associated with the fastest decline in 
everyday functioning in the presence of elevated amyloid, and those accumulating 
more tau show a faster decline in everyday functioning. These findings 
demonstrate the utility of including sensitive measures of everyday functioning 
in clinical practice and clinical trials at the stage of preclinical AD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION INFORMATION: The A4 study, ClinicalTrials.gov ID: 
NCT02008357; and Longitudinal Evaluation of Amyloid Risk and Neurodegeneration, 
ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT02488720.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213775
PMCID: PMC12123750
PMID: 40440591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.A. Dubbelman reports no disclosures relevant 
to the manuscript. A. Liu has received research support from the NIH, the 
Alzheimer's Association, the American Heart Association, Eli Lilly, and Eisai. 
M.C. Donohue reports that his spouse is a full-time employee of Janssen; and 
that he has served as a consultant to Roche. O. Langford and R. Raman have 
received research support from the NIH, the Alzheimer's Association, the 
American Heart Association, Eli Lilly, and Eisai. D.M. Rentz received salary 
support from the A4 study (R01 AG063689, U19AG010483 and U24AG057437) and has 
received payment or honoraria from USC Institute on Methods and Protocols for 
Advancement of Clinical Trials in ADRD (IMPACT-AD) course, Grand Rounds and 
External Advisory Boards from the University of California, Washington 
University, Boston University and Northwestern; as well as travel support to 
Alzheimer's Clinical Trials Consortium meetings, to the University of California 
Advisory Board Meeting, and to the Washington University Advisory Board Meeting. 
R. Amariglio received salary support from the A4 study (R01AG063689, U19AG010483 
and U24AG057437). R.A. Sperling reports grant support from Eisai and Eli Lilly 
and reports serving as a consultant for AbbVie, AC Immune, Alector, 
Bristol-Myers-Squibb, Ionis, Janssen, Genentech, Merck, Prothena, Roche, and 
Vaxxinity. P.S. Aisen has received grants or contracts from the NIH, Alzheimer's 
Association, the Foundation for the NIH, Lilly, Janssen, and Eisai; and has 
received consulting fees from Merck, Biogen, AbbVie, Roche, and Immunobrain 
Checkpoint. G.A. Marshall was a site principal investigator for A4; has received 
salary support from the A4 study (R01 AG063689, U19AG010483, and U24AG057437); 
has received salary support from Eisai Inc. and Eli Lilly and Company for 
serving as a site principal investigator for clinical trials; and has received 
payments for serving as a consultant for Ono Pharma USA Inc. Go to 
Neurology.org/N for full disclosures.


72. Science. 2025 May 29;388(6750):eady3217. doi: 10.1126/science.ady3217. Epub
2025  May 29.

Predicting and preventing Alzheimer's disease.

Topol E(1).

Author information:
(1)Eric Topol is director of the Scripps Translational Science Institute, La 
Jolla, CA USA.

With all the advances in both the science of aging and artificial intelligence 
(AI), we are in a propitious position to accurately and precisely determine who 
is at high risk of developing Alzheimer's disease years before signs of even 
mild cognitive deficit. It takes at least 20 years for aggregates of misfolded 
β-amyloid and tau proteins to accumulate in the brain along with 
neuroinflammation that they incite. This provides a long window of opportunity 
to get ahead of the pathobiological process, both for prediction and prevention.

DOI: 10.1126/science.ady3217
PMID: 40440380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 May 29;40(5):213. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01629-3.

Unlocking the neuroprotective potential of peptide nucleic acids 5 (PNA5) in 
neurological diseases: molecular mechanisms to therapeutic approaches.

Porel P(1), Hunjan G(2), Kaur N(2), Sharma V(1), Kaur M(1), Mittal Y(2), Kaur 
R(2), Aran KR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, 142001, 
India.
(2)Department of Pharmacy Practice, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, 
142001, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, 142001, 
India. khadgaraj@isfcp.org.

Peptide nucleic acids (PNAs) are synthetic nucleic acid analogues offering 
distinct structural and functional advantages over conventional RNA and DNA, 
positioning them as powerful molecules in molecular biology. Recently, PNAs have 
gained significant attention for their potential in the prevention and 
management of neurological diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), Huntington's disease (HD), 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), stroke, traumatic brain injury (TBI), 
spinal cord injury (SCI), depression, and anxiety. PNA5, a specific PNA variant, 
is highly expressed in neocortical association regions, particularly in 
primates, and plays a critical role in high-level cognitive functions such as 
reasoning, decision-making, and problem-solving. It can form stable, 
sequence-specific hybridizations with nucleic acids, resist nuclease 
degradation, and efficiently cross cellular membranes, making them ideal 
candidates for targeting disease-related genes in the brain. PNA5 has shown 
neuroprotective properties by improving cognitive function, reducing 
neuroinflammation, and preserving the integrity of the blood-brain barrier 
(BBB). Additionally, it supports critical processes such as neural migration, 
axon guidance, and synaptogenesis, which are vital for maintaining proper brain 
function. This review explores the mechanisms by which PNAs, particularly PNA5, 
exert therapeutic effects in neurological disorders. It highlights their role in 
gene modulation, protein regulation, and potential strategies for enhancing PNA 
delivery to the central nervous system (CNS) and its related disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01629-3
PMID: 40439916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests. Conflict of interest: No 
conflicts of interest to declare.


74. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 May 29. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05095-x. Online ahead of 
print.

Melatonin Supplementation in Alzheimer's disease: The Potential Role in 
Neurogenesis.

Ebrahimi R(1), Faramarzi A(#)(2), Salarvandian S(#)(3)(4), Zarei R(5), Heidari 
M(1), Salehian F(1), Esmaeilpour K(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Neuroscience Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(4)Sports Medicine Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Ghaem Teaching Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(6)Department of Psychology, University of Toronto Mississagua, Mississauga, ON, 
Canada. Kh.esmaeilpour@utoronto.ca.
(7)Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman 
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran. Kh.esmaeilpour@utoronto.ca.
(#)Contributed equally

Melatonin supplementation shows potential therapeutic effects in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) by targeting impaired neurogenesis. Neurogenesis, the formation of 
new neurons after development, involves proliferation, migration, 
differentiation, and survival of neurons. Impaired neurogenesis is associated 
with AD, specifically in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and subgranular zone 
(SGZ), leading to hippocampal degeneration and memory impairment. Melatonin 
positively effects AD by regulating amyloid beta (Aβ)-induced neuroinflammation, 
reducing tau hyperphosphorylation, and enhancing adult neurogenesis through 
various signaling pathways. In addition, it has anti-apoptotic, antioxidative, 
and anti-inflammatory properties, suggesting its potential as a treatment option 
for AD progression. Furthermore, melatonin and sleep are closely linked, and an 
increase in sleep duration positively affects Aβ deposition. This review aims to 
examine the impact of AD pathologies on neurogenesis and explore the mechanisms 
by which melatonin may alleviate these pathologies, potentially promoting 
neurogenesis.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05095-x
PMID: 40439856

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: None. Competing 
Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


75. Elife. 2025 May 29;13:RP99538. doi: 10.7554/eLife.99538.

Menopausal hormone therapy and the female brain: Leveraging neuroimaging and 
prescription registry data from the UK Biobank cohort.

Barth C(1), Galea LAM(2)(3), Jacobs EG(4), Lee BH(2), Westlye LT(5)(6), de Lange 
AG(5)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Division for Mental Health and Substance Abuse, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, 
Norway.
(2)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Canada.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(4)Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of California Santa Barbara, 
Santa Barbara, United States.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(6)Centre for Precision Psychiatry, Division of Mental Health and Addiction, 
Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(7)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Lausanne University Hospital (CHUV) and 
University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2025 Jan 14:2024.04.08.24305450. doi: 10.1101/2024.04.08.24305450.

BACKGROUND: Menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) is generally thought to be 
neuroprotective, yet results have been inconsistent. Here, we present a 
comprehensive study of MHT use and brain characteristics in females from the UK 
Biobank.
METHODS: 19,846 females with magnetic resonance imaging data were included. 
Detailed MHT prescription data from primary care records was available for 538. 
We tested for associations between the brain measures (i.e. gray/white matter 
brain age, hippocampal volumes, white matter hyperintensity volumes) and MHT 
user status, age at first and last use, duration of use, formulation, route of 
administration, dosage, type, and active ingredient. We further tested for the 
effects of a history of hysterectomy ± bilateral oophorectomy among MHT users 
and examined associations by APOE ε4 status.
RESULTS: Current MHT users, not past users, showed older gray and white matter 
brain age, with a difference of up to 9 mo, and smaller hippocampal volumes 
compared to never-users. Longer duration of use and older age at last use 
post-menopause was associated with older gray and white matter brain age, larger 
white matter hyperintensity volume, and smaller hippocampal volumes. MHT users 
with a history of hysterectomy ± bilateral oophorectomy showed younger gray 
matter brain age relative to MHT users without such history. We found no 
associations by APOE ε4 status and with other MHT variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that population-level associations between MHT 
use and female brain health might vary depending on duration of use and past 
surgical history.
FUNDING: The authors received funding from the Research Council of Norway (LTW: 
223273, 249795, 273345, 298646, 300768), the South-Eastern Norway Regional 
Health Authority (CB: 2023037, 2022103; LTW: 2018076, 2019101), the European 
Research Council under the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation 
program (LTW: 802998), the Swiss National Science Foundation (AMGdL: 
PZ00P3_193658), the Canadian Institutes for Health Research (LAMG: PJT-173554), 
the Treliving Family Chair in Women's Mental Health at the Centre for Addiction 
and Mental Health (LAMG), womenmind at the Centre for Addiction and Mental 
Health (LAMG, BHL), the Ann S. Bowers Women's Brain Health Initiative (EGJ), and 
the National Institutes of Health (EGJ: AG063843).

Plain Language Summary: Ovarian hormones, including oestrogens and progesterone, 
fluctuate throughout each menstrual cycle, during and after pregnancy, and in 
the years leading up to menopause when ovarian function begins to decline. 
During these transitional years, up to 80% of women will experience symptoms 
such as hot flashes and night sweats, which are believed to stem from the brain. 
Menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) often contains low doses of estrogens with or 
without progesterone and is commonly prescribed to minimize menopausal symptoms. 
MHT is believed to protect the brain and reduce the risk of Alzheimer’s disease; 
however, the evidence supporting this claim is conflicting. Furthermore, 
additional research is necessary to evaluate the risks and benefits of MHT on 
brain health. It remains unclear whether other factors, including a genetic 
predisposition to Alzheimer’s disease, the age at which MHT begins, the 
formulation, and the route of administration (e.g., pills or a transdermal 
patch), affect the impact of MHT on the brain. Addressing these questions is 
crucial to inform clinical decision-making regarding the prescription of MHT and 
to subsequently enhance women’s brain health during and beyond the menopause 
transition. Barth et al. analyzed brain imaging data as well as data about 
lifestyle and demographic factors and histories of gynecological surgeries, of 
over 20,000 current, past, and never users of MHT from the UK Biobank cohort. As 
a proxy for brain health, they calculated the so-called ‘brain age gap’, which 
refers to the difference between a person’s actual chronological age and their 
estimated brain age calculated from brain imaging data using machine learning; 
e.g., if someone’s chronological age is 50 years and their predicted brain age 
is 45, the brain age gap is –5 years. A negative brain age gap indicates a 
'younger-looking' brain, while a positive brain age gap suggests a brain that 
appears 'older'. Barth et al. further looked at the volume of the hippocampus, a 
brain region important for memory, learning and emotion regulation. They found 
that women who were current MHT users had an ‘older looking brain’ than women 
who had never taken MHT. The volume of the hippocampus was also smaller. In past 
users, the age at which MHT was last taken also made a difference. Those who 
were older at the time of their last use after menopause had an “older looking” 
brain and lower hippocampal volumes. Similar results were found for women who 
took MHT for longer. However, women on MHT who had undergone surgery to remove 
their womb and/or both ovaries had a ‘younger looking brain’ than women on MHT 
without similar surgical histories. Interestingly, factors such as a genetic 
risk for Alzheimer’s disease, differences in formulations, or methods of 
administration did not appear to affect brain health in this study. The findings 
of Barth et al. suggest that MHT does not have a general neuroprotective effect, 
nor does it lead to severe adverse effects on brain health. Instead, the impact 
of MHT on the brain may be influenced by various factors, including age, 
duration of use, and past surgical history. However, since the study is 
cross-sectional, meaning it was conducted at a single point in time, direct 
causality cannot be established. Future research examining the long-term impact 
of MHT on brain health is crucial for understanding individual risk profiles and 
benefits. Women around the world are faced with critical decisions regarding MHT 
use, yet the current lack of comprehensive research leaves them without the 
necessary evidence to make informed choices.

© 2024, Barth et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.99538
PMCID: PMC12122002
PMID: 40439116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CB, LG, EJ, BL, LW, Ad No competing interests 
declared


76. Cureus. 2025 May 28;17(5):e84989. doi: 10.7759/cureus.84989. eCollection 2025
 May.

Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy: A Case Report.

Alam F(1), Banerjee A(1), Jayawarna C(1).

Author information:
(1)Acute Medicine, Stepping Hill Hospital, Stockport NHS Foundation Trust, 
Stockport, GBR.

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a cerebrovascular condition characterized 
by the buildup of beta-amyloid protein within the walls of small and 
medium-sized blood vessels in the brain's cortex and leptomeninges. Clinically, 
it can present with a range of neurological symptoms, including recurrent 
headaches, cognitive disturbances, seizures, and focal deficits. A key feature 
of CAA is the tendency for lobar brain hemorrhages, though its clinical and 
radiological profile can overlap with other neurological disorders such as 
Alzheimer's disease, demyelinating conditions, vascular syndromes, and 
neoplasms. CAA pathology is frequently observed in individuals with Alzheimer's 
disease, with a subset showing significant vascular involvement. Although 
histopathological confirmation remains definitive, advanced imaging, 
particularly MRI, has become central to diagnosis, often identifying features 
such as cortical microbleeds, superficial siderosis, and non-deep (lobar) 
hemorrhages. In some presentations, especially inflammatory variants, patients 
may benefit from immunosuppressive treatment such as corticosteroids, making 
early diagnosis critical. Recognizing the distinction between CAA-related 
hemorrhages and other causes of cerebral bleeding is vital for timely and 
appropriate management. We present a case of an elderly male who had multiple 
hospital presentations with unexplained self-resolving expressive dysphasia, 
seizure, and gradually increasing confusion with the possibility of underlying 
dementia that responded well to high-dose steroids. This case underscores the 
need to consider inflammatory cerebral amyloid angiopathy (iCAA) as a 
differential in patients with recurrent, unexplained neurological symptoms with 
CT evidence of micro- and macro-hemorrhages and a dramatic response to steroids 
for symptomatic improvement. Improved awareness of atypical presentations and 
the utility of MRI can support earlier intervention. Further investigation is 
needed to refine diagnostic tools, identify reliable biomarkers, and explore 
therapeutic strategies targeting the underlying vascular and inflammatory 
mechanisms of the disease.

Copyright © 2025, Alam et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.84989
PMCID: PMC12119061
PMID: 40438877

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all 
authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared 
that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted 
work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no 
financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


77. Cureus. 2025 Apr 28;17(4):e83127. doi: 10.7759/cureus.83127. eCollection 2025
 Apr.

Advances in Molecular Imaging for the Early Detection and Management of 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Goel SA(1), Singh R(1), John DR(2), Suthar P(1), Singh JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Rush University 
Medical Center, Chicago, USA.
(2)Radiology, East Suffolk and North Essex Trust NHS, Colchester, GBR.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by impairments in memory and cognitive abilities. The development 
of new immunotherapies targeting beta-amyloid (Aβ) and tau protein deposition in 
the brain is ushering in great advances in clinical management. Advances in 
molecular imaging techniques, particularly positron emission tomography (PET) 
with amyloid and tau tracers, have facilitated the early detection of 
Alzheimer's pathology. We report a case of a 67-year-old patient presenting with 
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who was confirmed to have AD on newer PET 
imaging. This report highlights the important role of molecular imaging in 
the early diagnosis of AD before significant clinical and functional decline 
sets in, thereby emphasizing its role in clinical practice.

Copyright © 2025, Goel et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.83127
PMCID: PMC12118448
PMID: 40438850

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all 
authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared 
that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted 
work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no 
financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


78. Front Pharmacol. 2025 May 14;16:1591438. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1591438. 
eCollection 2025.

Nanocarrier-based targeted drug delivery for Alzheimer's disease: addressing 
neuroinflammation and enhancing clinical translation.

Wang K(#)(1), Yang R(#)(2), Li J(3), Wang H(4), Wan L(5), He J(6).

Author information:
(1)Acupuncture and Moxibustion Department, Beijing Massage Hospital, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Medical Electrophysiology, Ministry of Education & Medical 
Electrophysiological Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, (Collaborative 
Innovation Center for Prevention of Cardiovascular Diseases), Institute of 
Cardiovascular Research, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(3)Department of Radiology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, China.
(4)The school of Clinical Medical Sciences, Southwest Medical University, 
Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, China.
(6)Department of Rheumatology, Guang'anmen Hospital, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by cognitive decline, amyloid-beta (Aβ) aggregation, tau 
pathology, and chronic neuroinflammation. Among these, neuroinflammation plays a 
crucial role in exacerbating disease progression, making it an attractive 
therapeutic target. However, the presence of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) 
significantly limits the effective delivery of therapeutic agents to the brain, 
necessitating novel drug delivery strategies. Nanocarrier-based delivery systems 
have emerged as a promising solution to these challenges, offering targeted drug 
transport, enhanced BBB penetration, and improved bioavailability while 
minimizing systemic toxicity. This review explores the current advancements in 
nanocarrier-mediated drug delivery for AD, focusing on the mechanisms of 
neuroinflammation, the role of nanocarriers in overcoming the BBB, and their 
ability to modulate inflammatory pathways. Furthermore, the review discusses 
preclinical validation strategies and key challenges, including safety concerns, 
large-scale production limitations, and regulatory hurdles that must be 
addressed to enable clinical translation. Future perspectives emphasize the 
integration of nanotechnology with precision medicine, gene therapy, and 
artificial intelligence to optimize nanocarrier design for individualized AD 
treatment. By overcoming these obstacles, nanocarriers hold the potential to 
revolutionize therapeutic approaches for AD and other neurodegenerative 
diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Yang, Li, Wang, Wan and He.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1591438
PMCID: PMC12116324
PMID: 40438598

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


79. Front Hum Neurosci. 2025 May 14;19:1534321. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2025.1534321. 
eCollection 2025.

Individual alpha frequency tACS reduces static functional connectivity across 
the default mode network.

Carrasco-Gómez M(1)(2)(3), García-Colomo A(#)(2)(4), Cabrera-Álvarez J(#)(2)(4), 
Del Cerro-León A(2)(4), Gómez-Ariza CJ(5), Santos A(1)(3), Maestú F(2)(4)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electronical Engineering, E.T.S. de Ingenieros de 
Telecomunicación, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Center for Cognitive and Computational Neuroscience, Complutense University 
of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(3)CIBER de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), Instituto 
de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Department of Experimental Psychology, Cognitive Psychology and Speech and 
Language Therapy, Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Jaén, Jaén, Spain.
(6)Health Research Institute of the Hospital Clínico San Carlos (IdISSC), 
Madrid, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Research on the influence of transcranial alternating current 
stimulation over alpha functional connectivity (FC) is scarce, even when it 
poses as a potential treatment for various diseases. This study aimed to 
investigate the effects of individual alpha frequency tACS (IAF-tACS) on FC 
within the default mode network (DMN) in healthy individuals, particularly 
following the triple network model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 27 healthy participants were recruited, who underwent a 
20-min IAF-tACS session over parieto-occipital areas and three 
magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings: two pre-stimulation and one 
post-stimulation. Participants were randomly assigned to either the stimulation 
or sham group. Both dynamic FC (dFC) and static FC (sFC) were evaluated through 
the leakage corrected amplitude envelope correlation (AEC-c). Statistical 
analyses compared both Pre-Post FC ratio between groups through ratio t-tests 
and intragroup FC changes through repeated measures t-tests, with FDR correction 
applied to account for multiple comparisons. An additional analysis simulated 
the influence of the cortical folding on the effect of tACS over FC.
RESULTS: IAF-tACS significantly decreased sFC in intra- and inter-DMN links in 
the stimulation group compared to the sham group, with a special influence over 
antero-posterior links between hubs of the DMN. Negative correlations were found 
between AEC-c sFC changes and power alterations in posterior DMN areas, 
suggesting a complex interaction between cortical folding and electric field 
direction. On the other hand, dFC increased in both sham and stimulation groups, 
and no between-group differences were found.
CONCLUSION: Against our initial hypothesis, IAF-tACS reduced sFC in the DMN, 
possibly due to phase disparities introduced by cortical gyrification. These 
findings suggest that tACS might modulate FC in a more complex manner than 
previously thought, highlighting the need for further research into the 
personalized application of neuromodulation techniques, as well as its potential 
therapeutic implications for conditions like Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 Carrasco-Gómez, García-Colomo, Cabrera-Álvarez, del Cerro-León, 
Gómez-Ariza, Santos and Maestú.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2025.1534321
PMCID: PMC12116543
PMID: 40438538

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


80. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 May 14;17:1568337. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1568337.  eCollection 2025.

Identification and validation of pyroptosis-related genes in Alzheimer's disease 
based on multi-transcriptome and machine learning.

Wang Y(#)(1)(2), Li Y(#)(3), Zhou L(2), Yuan Y(2), Liu C(4), Zeng Z(1), Chen 
Y(5), He Q(1), Wu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Basic Medicine, North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong, China.
(2)School of Clinical Medicine, North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong, China.
(3)School of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Clinical Medicine, North 
Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong, China.
(4)School of Medical Imaging, North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong, China.
(5)School of Nursing, North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression is characterized by persistent 
neuroinflammation, where pyroptosis-an inflammatory programmed cell death 
mechanism-has emerged as a key pathological contributor. However, the molecular 
mechanisms through which pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) drive AD pathogenesis 
remain incompletely elucidated.
METHODS: We integrated multiple transcriptomes of AD patients from the GEO 
database and analyzed the expression of PRGs in combined datasets. Machine 
learning algorithms and comprehensive bioinformatics analysis (including immune 
infiltration and receiver operating characteristic (ROC)) were applied to 
identify the hub genes. Additionally, we validated the expression patterns of 
these key genes using the expression data from AD mice and constructed potential 
regulatory networks through time series and correlation analysis.
RESULTS: We identified 91 PRGs in AD using the weighted gene co-expression 
network analysis (WGCNA) and differentially expressed genes analysis. By 
application of the protein-protein interaction and machine learning algorithms, 
seven pyroptosis feature genes (CHMP2A, EGFR, FOXP3, HSP90B1, MDH1, METTL3, and 
PKN2) were identified. Crucially, MDH1 and PKN2 demonstrated superior 
performance in terms of immune cell infiltration, ROC curves, and experimental 
validation. Furthermore, we constructed the long non-coding RNA and mRNA 
(lncRNA-mRNA) regulatory network of these characteristic genes using the gene 
expression profiles from AD mice at varying ages, revealing the potential 
regulatory mechanism in AD.
CONCLUSION: This study provides the first comprehensive characterization of 
pyroptosis-related molecular signatures in AD. Seven hub genes were identified, 
with particular emphasis on MDH1 and PKN2. Their superior performances were 
validated through comprehensive bioinformatic analysis in both patient and mouse 
transcriptomes, as well as the experimental data. Our findings establish 
foundational insights into pyroptosis mechanisms in AD that may inform novel 
treatment strategies targeting neuroinflammatory pathways.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Li, Zhou, Yuan, Liu, Zeng, Chen, He and Wu.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1568337
PMCID: PMC12116433
PMID: 40438507

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


81. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 May 14;17:1483913. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1483913.  eCollection 2025.

Iron responsive elements mRNA regulate Alzheimer's amyloid precursor protein 
translation through iron sensing.

Khan MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, College of Science and General Studies, Alfaisal 
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Iron responsive element (IREs) mRNA and iron regulatory proteins (IRPs) regulate 
iron homeostasis. 5'-untranslated region motifs of APP IREs fold into RNA stem 
loops bind to IRP to control translation. Through the 5'-UTR APP IREs, iron 
overload accelerated the translation of the Alzheimer's amyloid precursor 
protein (APP). The protein synthesis activator eIF4F and the protein synthesis 
repressor IRP1 are the two types of proteins that IREs bind. Iron regulates the 
competitive binding of eIF4F and IRP1 to IRE. Iron causes the IRE and eIF4F to 
associate with one other, causing the dissociation of IRPs and altered 
translation. In order to control IRE-modulated expression of APP, messenger RNAs 
are becoming attractive targets for the development of small molecule 
therapeutics. Many mRNA interference strategies target the 2-D RNA structure, 
but messenger RNAs like rRNAs and tRNAs can fold into complicated, 
three-dimensional structures that add another level of complexity. IREs family 
is one of the few known 3-D mRNA regulatory elements. In this review, I present 
IREs structural and functional characteristics. For iron metabolism, the mRNAs 
encoding the proteins are controlled by this family of similar base sequences. 
Iron has a similar way of controlling the expression of Alzheimer's APP as 
ferritin IRE RNA in their 5ÚTR. Further, iron mis regulation by IRPs can be 
investigated and contrasted using measurements of expression levels of APP, 
amyloid-β and tau formation. Accordingly, IRE-modulated APP expression in 
Alzheimer's disease has great therapeutic potential through targeting mRNA 
structures.

Copyright © 2025 Khan.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1483913
PMCID: PMC12116395
PMID: 40438504

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


82. Front Psychiatry. 2025 May 14;16:1554866. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1554866. 
eCollection 2025.

Qifuyin alleviates anxiety and depression in 3×Tg-AD mice by modulating 
neuroendocrine function.

Yu T(#)(1), Yu Y(#)(1), Zhao J(1), Li H(1), Lu H(1), Li Y(1), Peng Y(1), Wang 
S(1), Wei W(1), Cheng X(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Innovation in Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shandong University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is frequently accompanied by behavioral and 
psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD). Studies have shown that 3×Tg-AD mice, 
a classical animal model of AD, exhibit anxiety and depression-like behaviors 
characteristic of BPSD.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the effects of Qifuyin on anxiety and 
depression-like behaviors in 3×Tg-AD mice.
METHODS: The 20 male and female C57BL/6 mice at 10.3 months of age were used as 
the control group, while the 82 male and female 3×Tg-AD mice of the same age 
were divided into five groups. The control and model groups were gavaged with 
solvent, the positive medicine group received a combination of donepezil and 
memantine, and the Qifuyin (QFY) groups were divided into three doses: low, 
medium, and high. The effects of QFY on anxiety-like behaviors in mice were 
assessed using the open field test (OFT) and elevated plus maze (EPM) test, 
while depression-like behaviors were evaluated through the forced swim test 
(FST) and sucrose splash test (ST). Plasma levels of corticosterone (CORT), 
testosterone (T), and estradiol (E2) were measured using ELISA, while 
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), 
luteinizing hormone (LH), corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), and 
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) were quantified via radioimmunoassay. 
Differences in plasma hormone levels among groups were analyzed using principal 
component analysis (PCA). Pearson correlation analysis was conducted to explore 
the relationships between plasma hormones and behavioral phenotypes, and 
multiple linear regression was employed to identify the hormones most strongly 
correlated with anxiety and depression-like behaviors in mice following QFY 
treatment.
RESULTS: In 3×Tg-AD mice, anxiety-like behaviors were characterized by reduced 
the duration, number of visits, and total distances in central area during the 
OFT. The EPM revealed reduced the duration and frequency in the open arms for 
both sexes. Depression-like behaviors were evident in the FST, with increased 
immobility, and in the ST, with prolonged grooming latency in both sexes and 
reduced grooming frequency in females. The treatment of QFY alleviated these 
behaviors. In males, In the model group, plasma ACTH, GnRH, and FSH levels were 
significantly decreased. In the QFY-treated group, plasma CRH levels were 
significantly reduced, while GnRH levels were significantly increased. In the 
model group of females, plasma ACTH levels were significantly elevated, while 
FSH and LH levels were markedly reduced. In the QFY-treated group, plasma CORT 
levels were significantly decreased, whereas FSH and LH levels were 
significantly increased. Multiple linear regression indicated QFY mainly 
mitigates anxiety and depression-like symptoms through modulating GnRH in males 
and T and ACTH in females.
CONCLUSIONS: The administration of QFY alleviates anxiety and depression in 
3×Tg-AD mice by regulating the HPA, HPT and HPO axes.

Copyright © 2025 Yu, Yu, Zhao, Li, Lu, Li, Peng, Wang, Wei and Cheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1554866
PMCID: PMC12116680
PMID: 40438332

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


83. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70078. doi: 10.1002/alz.70078.

Insights into pathophysiology, biomarkers, and therapeutics in tauopathies: 
Proceedings of the Tau2024 Global Conference.

Frost B(1), Rowe JB(2), Akinyemi RO(3), Abisambra JF(4), Ashton NJ(5)(6)(7), 
Brendel M(8)(9)(10)(11), Buée L(12), Butler D(13), Carrillo MC(14), Chung P(15), 
Clelland CD(16)(17), DeVos SL(18), Diaz K(19), Edelmayer RM(14), Elahi 
FM(20)(21), Ellajosyula R(22)(23), Ewen C(24), Fontana IC(14), Galas MC(25), 
Hansson O(26), Höglinger G(9)(10)(27), Horie K(28)(29), Ibanez A(30)(31)(32), 
Jacobs L(33), Maina MB(34)(35), Malpetti M(36)(37), McDade E(38), McEwan W(37), 
Montoliu-Gaya L(39), Mummery CJ(40), Orr ME(41)(42), Rohrer JD(40), Rommel 
A(43), Sastre C(44), Spires-Jones TL(45)(46), Tee BL(17)(31), Viney TJ(47), 
Walker JM(48), Wegmann S(49)(50), Wildsmith K(29), Yadav R(51), Mahinrad S(14), 
Sexton C(14).

Author information:
(1)Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research, Department of Molecular Biology, 
Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(2)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, 
and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge Biomedical 
Campus, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(3)Neuroscience and Ageing Research Unit, Institute for Advanced Medical 
Research and Training, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Oyo 
State, Nigeria.
(4)McKnight Brain Institute, Brain Injury, Rehabilitation, and Neuroresilience 
Center, Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative Disease, Fixel 
Institute, Department of Neuroscience, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
Florida, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Banner Alzheimer's Institute and University of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona, 
USA.
(7)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(8)Department of Nuclear Medicine, LMU University Hospital, Munich, Germany.
(9)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(10)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(11)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), partner site Munich, a partnership between 
DKFZ and Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU), Heidelberg, Germany.
(12)Inserm, CHU-Lille, Lille Neuroscience & Cognition, University of Lille, 
Lille, France.
(13)Neural Stem Cell Institute, Rensselaer, New York, USA.
(14)Medical & Scientific Relations, Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, 
USA.
(15)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Department of Chemistry, and Alfred E. 
Mann Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Southern California, 
Los Angeles, California, USA.
(16)Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of California San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California, USA.
(17)Memory & Aging Center, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(18)Cure.Bio, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(19)CurePSP, Inc, New York, New York, USA.
(20)Departments of Neurology, Neuroscience, Pathology, Molecular and Cell-Based 
Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(21)James J. Peters Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Bronx, New 
York, USA.
(22)Cognitive Neurology Clinic, Manipal Hospital, and Annasawmy Mudaliar 
Hospital, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
(23)Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, Karnataka, India.
(24)UCB Pharma, Slough, UK.
(25)Inserm, CHU Lille, CNRS, LilNCog-Lille Neuroscience and Cognition, 
University of Lille, Lille, France.
(26)Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(27)Department of Neurology, LMU University Hospital, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) München, Munich, Germany.
(28)The Tracy Family SILQ Center & Department of Neurology, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri, USA.
(29)Eisai Inc., Nutley, New Jersey, USA.
(30)Latin American Brain Health Institute (BrainLat), Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez 
(UAI), Peñalolén, Santiago, Chile.
(31)Global Brain Health Institute (GBHI.org), University California San 
Francisco (UCSF), San Francisco, California, USA.
(32)Global Brain Health Institute (GBHI), Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(33)Cure MAPT FTD, Denver, Colorado, USA.
(34)Sussex Neuroscience, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex, Falmer, 
UK.
(35)Biomedical Science Research and Training Centre, Yobe State University, 
Damaturu, Nigeria.
(36)Department of Clinical Neurosciences and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS 
Trust, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(37)UK Dementia Research Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(38)Department of Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(39)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(40)Dementia Research Centre, Institute of Neurology, University College London, 
London, UK.
(41)Department of Internal Medicine, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(42)Salisbury VA Medical Center, Salisbury, North Carolina, USA.
(43)Rainwater Charitable Foundation, Fort Worth, Texas, USA.
(44)Global Medical Affairs, Ferrer, Barcelona, Spain.
(45)Centre for Discovery Brain Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(46)UK Dementia Research Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(47)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(48)Department of Pathology, Molecular and Cell-Based Medicine, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(49)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Berlin, Germany.
(50)Einstein Center for Neurosciences Berlin, Charité - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(51)Department of Neurology, National Institute of Mental Health and 
Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.

Recent years have seen major advances in tau-associated brain disorders through 
interdisciplinary research spanning molecular biology, neuroimaging, clinical 
trials, and therapeutic development. The Tau2024 Global Conference, hosted by 
the Alzheimer's Association, CurePSP, and Rainwater Charitable Foundation, 
showcased these efforts by bringing together researchers and experts worldwide 
to discuss the latest advancements in tau research. The conference aimed to 
attract talent and funding to study tauopathies, particularly among early-career 
researchers, and to foster interdisciplinary alignment and collaboration around 
challenges in tau research. In this manuscript, we summarize proceedings of the 
Tau2024 Global Conference, covering a wide range of topics, including lived 
experiences of individuals with genetic forms of tauopathies, global 
perspectives on tauopathies, and molecular mechanisms, brain microenvironments, 
biomarker developments, clinical trials, and therapeutic approaches to 
tauopathies. Through international, collaborative efforts, innovative research, 
and a commitment to inclusivity, researchers worldwide have demonstrated 
transformative breakthroughs toward diagnosing, treating, and, ultimately, 
preventing tau-related diseases. HIGHLIGHTS: The Tau2024 Global Conference 
presented updates and advances in tau research. Blood-based biomarkers offer 
specificity and longitudinal monitoring capabilities. There are a range of 
targetable mechanisms in the cascade of pathogenesis. International 
collaboration is vital to address disparities in tauopathies.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70078
PMCID: PMC12120264
PMID: 40437880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.C. Carrillo, I. Camargo Fontana, S. Mahinrad, 
and C. Sexton are full‐time employees of the Alzheimer's Association. N.J. 
Ashton, in the past 36 months, reports receiving consulting fees from Quanterix; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from Alamar Biosciences, Biogen, Eli‐Lilly, 
Quanterix; patents (Application No.: PCT/US2024/037834 [WSGR Docket No. 
58484‐709.601]), and served as Advisory Board for Biogen, TargetALS, and TauRx. 
L. Jacobs, in the past 36 months, reports receiving travel and lodging support 
for being the united keynote speaker by Alzheimer's Association and has a 
leadership or fiduciary role in Cure MAPT FTD. M. B. Maina, in the past 36 
months, reports receiving consulting fees from Wellcome Trust; serving as a 
Member of Council, International Society to Advance Alzheimer's Research and 
Treatment; serving as Ambassador, ALBA Network (https://www.alba.network/); 
Governing of Society of Neuroscientists of Africa (SONA) and Yobe State 
Government–Special Adviser to The Governor. O. Hansson, in the past 36 months, 
reports receiving consulting fees from AC Immune, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol 
Meyer Squibb, C2N Diagnostics, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, 
Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi, and Siemens. M. Malpetti, in the past 36 months, 
reports receiving consulting fees from Astex Pharmaceuticals, Alzheimer's 
Association Travel Grant, Guarantors of Brain Travel Grant, ARUK East Network 
Travel Grant; and served as lead of the Inflammation Special DEMON Group, and 
the PET GENFI working group. R. Yadav, in the past 36 months, reports receiving 
royalties or licenses from Jaypee Publishers, New Delhi, received payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from International PD and Movement Disorders Society, and 
served as Secretary of Movement Disorders Society of India. B. Frost, in the 
past 36 months, reports receiving consulting fees from MD Anderson Belfer 
Neurodegeneration Consortium, paid travel by Rainwater Foundation for attending 
Tau2024, Washington, D.C., paid travel by MD Anderson for attending MD Anderson 
Belfer Neurodegeneration Consortium Science Day, Houston, TX, and paid travel by 
NIH for attending CMND Study Section, Washington, D.C.; served as Co‐organizer 
of Tau2024 Conference, Scientific Advisory Board of CurePSP and Associate Editor 
of Progress in Neurobiology. L. Buee, in the past 36 months, reports receiving 
support from Rainwater Charitable Foundation for attending the Global Tau2024 
Conference. D. Butler, in the past 36 months, reports support from the Rainwater 
Charitable Foundation and the Tau Consortium for attending meetings and/or 
travel and patents (Regenerative Research Foundation (2018). BI‐FUNCTIONAL 
ANTI‐TAU POLYPEPTIDES AND USE THEREOF. 27562‐0024WO1, Regenerative Research 
Foundation (2021) COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR CONTROLLED PROTEIN DEGRADATION IN 
NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASE (Pending)). C. D. Clelland, in the past 36 months, 
reports receiving support for attending Tau2024 and TCIM 2024. C. Ewen reports 
being an employee of UCB Ltd; receiving travel/hotel support for Tau2024 from 
the Rainwater Foundation; and stock or stock options in UCB Ltd. R. M. Edelmayer 
is a full‐time employee of the Alzheimer's Association, and the Alzheimer's 
Association provided support for the Tau2024 conference and writing of the 
manuscript, and Alzheimer's Association paid for her travel to Tau2024. K. Horie 
may receive income based on technology (METHODS TO DETECT MTBR TAU ISOFORMS AND 
USE THEREOF) (PCT/US2020/046224) licensed by Washington University to C2N 
Diagnostics. K. Horie may receive income based on technology (ANTI‐TAU MTBR 
ANTIBODIES AND METHODS TO DETECT ENDOGENOUSLY CLEAVED FRAGMENTS OF TAU AND USES 
THEREOF) (PCT/US2023/072738) licensed by Washington University to C2N 
Diagnostics. In addition, K. Horie reports the following patents: ANTI‐TAU MTBR 
ANTIBODIES AND METHODS TO DETECT ENDOGENOUSLY CLEAVED FRAGMENTS OF TAU AND USES 
THEREOF (PCT/US2023/072738), METHODS TO DETECT MTBR TAU ISOFORMS AND USE THEREOF 
(PCT/US2020/046224), and reports being an Eisai‐sponsored voluntary research 
associate professor at Washington University and has received a salary from 
Eisai. J. B. Rowe, in the past 36 months, reports royalties or licenses from 
Oxford University Press; receiving consulting fees from Asceneuron, Astex, 
Astronautx, ClinicalInk, CumulusNeuro, Cerevance Curasen, Eisai, ICG, Invicro, 
and Prevail; serving on the advisory board of Asceneuron and Dementia Mission; 
and being trustee of Guarantors of Brain, Darwin College, PSP Association. T. L. 
S. Jones, in the past 36 months, reports receiving consulting fees from AbbVie 
and Jay Therapeutics; receiving payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
Sanofi; support for attending meetings and/or travel from Sanofi; and serving as 
president and trustee of British Neuroscience Association, Guarantors of Brain, 
trustee and editor of Brain Communications, Charity Scientific Advisor of Race 
Against Dementia, Scientific Advisory Board of Scottish Brain Sciences, and 
Scientific Advisory Board Cognition Therapeutics. C. J. Mummery, in the past 36 
months, received consulting fees from Lilly as expert advisor in development of 
clinical program of siRNA J4T‐MCL‐0LAA; received honoraria for sponsored 
symposia: (a) Scientific symposium on novel DMTs in dementia; (b) educational 
symposium on DMTs from Lilly; received honoraria for sponsored symposium at ABN 
on implementation of leqembi in UK from Eisai; received paid registration fee 
and travel for UK National neurology conference (ABN) from Esiai, and paid 
registration and travel for AAIC as a Scientific Program Committee from 
Alzheimer's Association; and reports the following: Lilly – member of advisory 
board on donanemab Trailblazer; Novartis – member of advisory board on AD drug 
program steering committee; Roche/Genentech – member of advisory board for 
trontinemab, Eisai – member of advisory board on UK AUR for Leqembi, Chair data 
safety monitoring board Immunobrain, Biogen – advisor on program steering 
committee EMBARK/ENVISION aducanumab, Biogen – advisor on program steering 
committee and PI for phase II CELIA BIIB080, and Eisai – chair of AUR 
development UK committee for Leqembi. C. Sastré reports being Ferrer Employee. 
M. C. Galas, in the past 36 months, reports being an invited guest at the 
Tau2024 Global Conference. K. Diaz reports serving as Executive Director and CSO 
of CurePSP, Inc. K. Wildsmith, in the past 36 months, reports receiving support 
for attending meetings and/or travel from Eisai, Inc. and stock or stock options 
at Eisa, Inc. B. L. Tee, in the past 36 months, reports support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from NIA (R21AG068757, R01AG080469) and Alzheimer's 
Association (AACSFD‐22‐97214). F. M. Elahi, in the past 36 months, reports 
receiving consulting fees from Back Bay Life Science Advisors, Woolsey 
Pharmaceuticals, and Therini; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speaker bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from academia only; 
support for attending meetings and/or travel from academia only; and serving on 
the cureCADASIL scientific advisory board, Eisai Alzheimer's disease advisory 
board, scientific advisory board member, Albert White Matter Research Institute, 
and scientific advisory board member and consultant, Cordance Medical. E. 
McDade, in the past 36 months, reports receiving consulting fees from 
AstraZeneca, Roche, Sanofi, and Merck; receiving payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events from Alzheimer Association, Projects in Knowledge (Kaplan)‐ CME, and 
Neurology Live–CME; receiving support for attending meetings and/or travel from 
Alzheimer's Association and Alzheimer's Foundation; patents planned, issued, or 
pending (T‐018562 – methods of treating based on site‐specific tau 
phosphorylation); participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory 
board of Alector and Alnylam Pahrmaceuticals; having a leadership or fiduciary 
role paid or unpaid in Alzamend; and receiving equipment, materials, drugs, 
medical writing, gifts, or other services from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, 
Cerveau, and LMI. G. Höglinger, in the past 36 months, reports receiving 
consulting fees from Abbvie, Alzprotect, Amylyx, Aprinoia, Asceneuron, Bayer, 
Bial, Biogen, Biohaven, Epidarex, Ferrer, Kyowa Kirin, Lundbeck, Novartis, 
Retrotope, Roche, Sanofi, Servier, Takeda, Teva, UCB; receiving payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from Abbvie, Bayer, Bial, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Esteve, Kyowa Kirin, Pfizer, Roche, Teva, UCB, Zambon; receiving support for 
attending meetings and/or travel from Alzheimer's Association, CurePSP, Deutsche 
Gesellschaft für Neurologie, Deutsche Parkinson Gesellschaft, European Academy 
of Neurology and Movement Disorders Society; having patents planned, issued, or 
pending (Höglinger GU, Höllerhage M, Rösler T. Treatment of Synucleinopathies, 
United States Patent No.: US 10,918,628 B2, date of patent: February 16, 2021, 
and Höglinger GU, Höllerhage M, Rösler T. Treatment of Synucleinopathies. 
European Patent No.: EP 17 787 904.6‐1109 / 3 525 788.); participation on a Data 
Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board of Kainos Medicine; and having the 
following leadership or fiduciary role in other board, society, committee, or 
advocacy group, paid or unpaid: scientific advisory board, CurePSP, scientific 
advisory board, Parkinson Stiftung, scientific advisory board, Thiemann 
Stiftung, and clinical advisory board, DZNE. M. Brendel, in the past 36 months, 
reports receiving consulting fees from MICA and GE Healthcare; receiving payment 
or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript writing, 
or educational events from GE Healthcare, Miltnei, and Life Molecular Imaging; 
participation in a data safety monitoring board or advisory board of MIAC, and 
GE Healthcare; and having the following leadership or fiduciary role in other 
board, society, committee, or advocacy group, paid or unpaid: EANM Neuroimaging, 
and SNMMI BIC Board of Directors. S. L. DeVos, in the past 36 months, reports 
the following patens planned, issued, or pending: DeVos SL, Miller TM, Rigo F, 
Bennett CF. Methods for modulating tau expression for reducing seizure and 
modifying a neurodegenerative syndrome. US20200032257A1. Published 01/2020. 
Patent Granted 10/2023, DeVos SL, Miller TM, Rigo F, Bennett CF. Methods for 
modulating tau expression for reducing seizure and modifying a neurodegenerative 
syndrome. US10273474B2. Published 10/2015. Patent Granted 04/2019, DeVos SL, 
Barker S, Dennis MS, Estrada A, Kariolis M, Mahon C, Nilewski L, Park J, Shan L, 
Thayer MB, Tong R, Tran H, Wells R, Zuchero J. Oligonucleotide conjugates 
targeted to the TfR. WO2023279099A1. Published 01/2023. Patent Pending, DeVos 
SL, Ledeboer A, Zeitler B, Zhang S, Wegmann S, Hyman B. Tau modulators and 
methods and compositions for delivery thereof. US11504389B2. Published 06/2018. 
Patent Granted 11/2022, and DeVos SL, Ledeboer A, Zeitler B, Zhang S, Wegmann S, 
Hyman B. Tau modulators and methods and compositions for delivery thereof. 
US20230270774A1. Published 08/2023. Patent Pending. In addition, S. DeVos, in 
the past 36 months, reports having stock or stock options in Denali 
Therapeutics, Inc. J. D. Rohrer, in the past 36 months, reports receiving 
consulting fees from Alector, Prevail, Aviado Bio, Denali, Arkuda Therapeutics, 
and Takeda. J. F. Abisambra, in the past 36 months, reports receiving support 
for attending AAIC 2022. M. Orr, in the past 36 months, has received research 
support related to the present manuscript from Hevolution/AFAR, Cure Alzheimer's 
Fund, NIH grant 5R01AG068293‐05, the Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation, and 
the Rainwater Charitable Foundation (these awards were granted to WFUHS, with 
Dr. M. E. Orr serving as the Principal Investigator). In addition, M. E. Orr 
received consulting fees from the Foundation for a Better World, received an 
honorarium for a keynote speech at a retreat at Case Western Reserve University, 
and an honorarium for a lecture from Washington University and Northwestern 
University. She received support for attending the following meetings and/or 
travel: AGE 51st Annual Meeting, AAIC 2023, 46th Annual Meeting of the Japanese 
Neuroscience Society, FBI Translations Seminar Series, CTAD 2023, ISCA 2023, GSA 
2023, SfN 2023, Multidisciplinary Research in Gerontology Colloquium Series at 
USC, Progress in Neuroscience Seminar Series (PINS), AGBT 2024, ADPD 2024, ICM 
Seminar, Tau 2024, Palm Beach Science Series 2024, Japan Spatial Summit, ISMND 
2024, Spatial Biology East Coast Summit, FrA2RE Meet and Greet Event, IMPACT‐AD 
Alumni Scholar Meeting, IRCND 2024, ADDF Pre‐AAIC Gathering, 2024 Neurobiology 
of Brain Disorders Gordon Research Conference, Case Western Annual 
Neurodegeneration Retreat and Goodes Prize Anniversary. She served as an unpaid 
advisor to Nanostring Technology and received free lab services from Nanostring 
Technology, Canopy Bio, and Averill Foundation. A. Rommel is an employee at 
Rainwater Charitable Foundation, which was a co‐funder of the Tau2024 
conference. C. Sastre is a Ferrer employee. The remaining authors report no 
disclosures. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


84. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 May 28;20(1):61. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00849-6.

Bridging systemic metabolic dysfunction and Alzheimer's disease: the liver 
interface.

Song D(#)(1), Li Y(#)(1), Yang LL(1), Luo YX(2), Yao XQ(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, No. 74 Linjiang Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing, 400010, 
China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, No. 74 Linjiang Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing, 400010, 
China. luoyaxi@hospital.cqmu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, No. 74 Linjiang Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing, 400010, 
China. dryaoxq@cqmu.edu.cn.
(4)Chongqing Municipality Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Medicine, No. 
76 Linjiang Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing, 400010, China. 
dryaoxq@cqmu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Rehabilitation Therapy, Chongqing Medical University, No. 1 
Medical College Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing, 400000, China. 
dryaoxq@cqmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasingly recognized as a systemic disorder with 
a substantial metabolic disorder component, where the liver significantly 
impacts the brain via the liver-brain axis. Key mechanisms include the liver's 
role in clearing peripheral β-amyloid (Aβ), the influence of hepatic enzymes and 
metabolites on cognitive decline, and the systemic effects of metabolic 
disorders on AD progression. Hepatokines, liver-secreted proteins including 
fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-21, selenoprotein P (SELENOP), Fetuin-A, Midbrain 
astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF), apolipoprotein J (ApoJ), sex 
hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), Adropin and Angiopoietin-like protein 3 
(ANGPTL3), could regulate insulin sensitivity, lipid metabolism, oxidative 
stress, immune responses, and neurotrophic support. These pathways are closely 
linked to core AD pathologies, including Aβ aggregation, tau 
hyperphosphorylation, neuroinflammation, oxidative stress and mitochondrial 
dysfunction. Lifestyle interventions, including exercise and dietary 
modifications, that regulate hepatokines expression may offer novel preventive 
and therapeutic strategies for AD. This review synthesizes current knowledge on 
the liver-brain crosstalk in AD, emphasizing the mechanistic role of liver in 
bridging metabolic dysfunction with neurodegeneration and underscores the 
diagnostic and therapeutic potential of hepatokines in addressing AD's complex 
pathology.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00849-6
PMCID: PMC12121119
PMID: 40437610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.


85. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2025 May 28;13(1):120. doi:
10.1186/s40478-025-02030-y.

Operationalizing postmortem pathology-MRI association studies in Alzheimer's 
disease and related disorders with MRI-guided histology sampling.

Athalye C(1), Bahena A(2), Khandelwal P(3), Emrani S(2), Trotman W(2), Levorse 
LM(4), Khodakarami Z(3), Ohm DT(2), Teunissen-Bermeo E(2), Capp N(2), Sadaghiani 
S(2), Arezoumandan S(2), Lim SA(4), Prabhakaran K(2), Ittyerah R(4), Robinson 
JL(5), Schuck T(5), Lee EB(5), Tisdall MD(4), Das SR(2), Wolk DA(2), Irwin 
DJ(2), Yushkevich PA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA. 
cathalye@seas.upenn.edu.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, USA.

Postmortem neuropathological examination, while the gold standard for diagnosing 
neurodegenerative diseases, often relies on limited regional sampling that may 
miss critical areas affected by Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. 
Ultra-high resolution postmortem MRI can help identify regions that fall outside 
the diagnostic sampling criteria for additional histopathologic evaluation. 
However, there are no standardized guidelines for integrating histology and MRI 
in a traditional brain bank. We developed a comprehensive protocol for whole 
hemisphere postmortem 7T MRI-guided histopathological sampling with whole-slide 
digital imaging and histopathological analysis, providing a reliable pipeline 
for high-volume brain banking in heterogeneous brain tissue. Our method uses 
patient-specific 3D printed molds built from postmortem MRI, allowing 
standardized tissue processing with a permanent spatial reference frame. To 
facilitate pathology-MRI association studies, we created a semi-automated MRI to 
histology registration pipeline and developed a quantitative pathology scoring 
system using weakly supervised deep learning. We validated this protocol on a 
cohort of 29 brains with diagnosis on the AD spectrum that revealed correlations 
between cortical thickness and phosphorylated tau accumulation. This pipeline 
has broad applicability across neuropathological research and brain banking, 
facilitating large-scale studies that integrate histology with neuroimaging. The 
innovations presented here provide a scalable and reproducible approach to 
studying postmortem brain pathology, with implications for advancing diagnostic 
and therapeutic strategies for Alzheimer's disease and related disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-025-02030-y
PMCID: PMC12121285
PMID: 40437594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval and Consent to 
Participate: Where possible, pre-consent during life and, in all cases, 
next-of-kin consent at death was given. Imaging studies were approved by the 
Institutional Review Board at the University of Pennsylvania and were in 
accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Consent for Publication: All 
authors have reviewed the contents of the manuscript being submitted, approved 
of its contents, and validated the accuracy of the data and consented to 
publication. Competing interests: D.A.W. has served as a paid consultant to Eli 
Lilly, GE Healthcare, and Qynapse. He serves on a Data Safety and Monitoring 
Board for Functional Neuromodulation and GSK. He is a site investigator for a 
clinical trial sponsored by Biogen. D.J.I. is a member of the science advisory 
board of Denali Therapeutics. S.R.D. received consultation fees from Rancho 
Biosciences and Nia Therapeutics. The other authors have nothing to disclose.


86. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 May 28;17(1):119. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01763-1.

Lecanemab in clinical practice: real-world outcomes in early Alzheimer's 
disease.

Bregman N(1)(2)(3), Nathan T(4), Shir D(4), Omer N(4)(5), Levy MH(4), David 
AB(4), Aizenstien O(5)(6)(7)(8), Lotan E(9), Alcalay Y(10), Awad AA(4), Gadoth 
A(5)(6)(11), Ash E(4)(5)(6), Shiner T(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Cognitive Neurology Unit, Neurological Institute, Tel-Aviv Medical Center, 6 
Weizmann St., Tel Aviv, 6423906, Israel. noabr@tlvmc.gov.il.
(2)Faculty of Medical & Health Sciences, Tel-Aviv University, Ramat-Aviv, 
Tel-Aviv, 6997801, Israel. noabr@tlvmc.gov.il.
(3)Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel-Aviv University, Ramat-Aviv, Tel-Aviv, 
6997801, Israel. noabr@tlvmc.gov.il.
(4)Cognitive Neurology Unit, Neurological Institute, Tel-Aviv Medical Center, 6 
Weizmann St., Tel Aviv, 6423906, Israel.
(5)Faculty of Medical & Health Sciences, Tel-Aviv University, Ramat-Aviv, 
Tel-Aviv, 6997801, Israel.
(6)Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel-Aviv University, Ramat-Aviv, Tel-Aviv, 
6997801, Israel.
(7)Sagol Brain Institute, Wohl Institute for Advanced Imaging, Tel Aviv Medical 
Center, 6 Weizmann St., Tel Aviv, 6423906, Israel.
(8)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Tel Aviv Medical Center, 6 Weizmann St., 
Tel Aviv, 6423906, Israel.
(9)Department of Radiology, NYU Langone Health, 550 1st Ave, New York, NY, 
10016, USA.
(10)Division of Clinical Laboratories, Tel Aviv Medical Center, 6 Weizmann St., 
Tel Aviv, 6423906, Israel.
(11)Neurological Institute, Tel-Aviv Medical Center, 6 Weizmann St., Tel Aviv, 
6423906, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Lecanemab, a monoclonal antibody targeting amyloid beta, has 
recently been approved for treatment of early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
demonstrating amyloid plaque reduction and slowing of cognitive decline in 
clinical trials. However, real-world data on its efficacy and safety remain 
limited. The Cognitive Neurology Unit at Tel Aviv Medical Center (TLVMC) 
established an infrastructure to facilitate advanced treatments for AD, 
utilising a multidisciplinary approach to patient screening, diagnosis, 
treatment initiation and follow up.
METHODS: Lecanemab administration at the TLVMC commenced in November 2023. 
Patients with biomarker-confirmed early-stage AD were screened via a structured 
referral system, including neurological evaluations, MRI, lumbar puncture or 
Amyloid-PET, genetic testing, and multidisciplinary team (MDT) consensus 
discussions. Cognitive function was assessed using the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE) at baseline, six months, and twelve months. Safety monitoring 
included routine MRI scans for amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA).
RESULTS: Between July 2023 and January 2025, 169 patients were screened and 86 
initiated lecanemab treatment. By January 2025, 53 patients had reached the 
6-month follow-up date. In the intention-to-treat (ITT) population, MMSE scores 
declined significantly over 6 months (F(1, 45.13) = 7.41, p =.009). Subgroup 
analysis revealed a significant decline in younger patients (n = 31; F(1, 
24.67) = 8.06, p =.009), but not in older patients (n = 22; F(1, 19.25) = 0.67, 
p =.424). At 12 months, 31 patients had reached follow-up, with no significant 
change in MMSE scores observed (F(1, 17.18) = 2.49, p =.133). Age subgroup 
analysis was not performed at 12 months due to limited sample size. No 
significant correlations were found between baseline biomarkers and cognitive 
change. ARIA occurred in 18.6% of patients, mostly asymptomatic. One patient 
experienced symptomatic ARIA, required hospitalization with intravenous 
treatment, and discontinued therapy. A mixed-effects model showed no significant 
effect of ARIA on MMSE change (p =.264) and no interaction with time (p =.433). 
Infusion-related reactions occurred in 22.1%, all mild and transient. Treatment 
was discontinued in 19.8% of patients due to ARIA, financial barriers, 
comorbidities, or personal preference.
CONCLUSIONS: This real-world analysis demonstrates the feasibility and safety of 
Lecanemab administration for early-stage AD within a tertiary hospital setting. 
Establishing dedicated infrastructure enabled streamlined patient evaluations 
and treatment. The findings suggest a differential response across age groups, 
consistent with clinical trial data. Continued longitudinal follow-up is needed 
to assess long-term efficacy and safety.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01763-1
PMCID: PMC12117801
PMID: 40437535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the IRB committee of TLVMC, approval 
number 850 − 16. All participants provided written informed consent before 
inclusion in the study, in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Consent 
for publication: Not applicable. This manuscript does not contain any individual 
person’s data in any form. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


87. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Oct;62(10):12616-12633. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05092-0. 
Epub 2025 May 28.

Late-Stage Activation of Toll-like receptor 3 Alleviates Cognitive Impairment 
and Neuropathology in an Alzheimer's Disease Mouse Model.

Zhu T(1)(2), Shen F(1)(2), Jia X(1)(2), Zhou H(1)(2), Ni W(1)(2), Wang S(3), Wu 
D(4), Gao H(1)(2), Shang Z(2), Zhou Y(1)(2), Han J(1)(2), Jin G(1)(2), Dong 
F(5), Zu J(1)(2), Yang X(1)(2), Shi H(1)(2), Zhou C(6)(7), Hua F(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, 221004, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou Medical University, 
Xuzhou, 221002, China.
(3)Department of Human Anatomy, Kangda College of Nanjing Medical University, 
Lianyungang, 222000, China.
(4)Suqian First People's Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Suqian, 223800, 
China.
(5)Public Experimental Research Center, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, 
221004, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, 221004, China. 
zhouchao@njglyy.com.
(7)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Medical School, Nanjing Drum 
Tower Hospital, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210008, China. zhouchao@njglyy.com.
(8)Department of Neurology, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, 221004, China. 
fhua@augusta.edu.
(9)Department of Interdisciplinary Health Science, College of Allied Health 
Science, Augusta University, Augusta, GA, 30912, USA. fhua@augusta.edu.

This study was to investigate the effects of Toll-like receptor-3 (TLR3) 
activation on cognitive impairment and neuropathology in late-stage of 
Alzheimer's disease in a mouse model. Amyloid protein precursor 
(APP)/presenilin-1 (PSEN1) (APP/PSEN1) mice were treated with Poly (I:C), a 
specific for TLR3. A panel of neurobehavioral tests were conducted to evaluate 
their cognitive functions. Aβ deposition, plasma Aβ levels, neuropathological 
changes, and activation of TLR3- TIR-domain-containing adapter-inducing 
interferon-β (TRIF) signaling were assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 
electrophysiological recordings, transmission electron microscopy, Western 
blotting, immunofluorescence staining, and qPCR. The data demonstrated that Poly 
(I:C) significantly attenuated cognitive and neuropathological impairments, 
compared with APP/PSEN1 mice without Poly (I:C) treatment. Administration of 
Poly (I:C) significantly reduced brain Aβ1-42 deposition and the levels of 
Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 in peripheral blood. In addition, treatment with Poly (I:C) 
significantly up-regulated the expression of anti-inflammatory factors and 
inhibited the expression of pro-inflammatory factors. The data indicated that 
systemic application of TLR3 agonist Poly(I:C) attenuated the brain damage, 
improved the cognitive function, and reduced the levels of Aβ1-42 in brain and 
peripheral blood. The underlying mechanism might attribute to the up-regulation 
of p-IRF3 that increases the expression of anti-inflammatory factors and the 
inhibition of p-NF-κB that reduces the expression of pro-inflammatory factors.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05092-0
PMCID: PMC12433446
PMID: 40437286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: This study was 
performed in line with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Approval 
was granted by the Ethics Committee of Xuzhou University (08/25/2023/No. 
202309T0). Consent to Participate: The authors confirm that the consent to 
participate of a human subject was not applicable in the present study. Consent 
for Publication: The authors confirm that the consent for publication of a human 
subject was not applicable in the present study. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


88. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Oct;62(10):12602-12615. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05056-4. 
Epub 2025 May 28.

Spirilloxanthin from Verbesina encelioides Flower Extract has Neuroprotective 
Benefits in Scopolamine-Induced Memory Impaired Rats that Resemble Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Verma V(1), Rao L(1), Chaudhary M(1), Jain S(2), Pinapati KK(3), Dey A(4), 
Sharma S(5), Srivastava N(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Banasthali Vidyapith, Tonk, 
304022, Rajasthan, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Banasthali Vidyapith, Tonk, 304022, Rajasthan, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education 
and Research Raebareli (NIPER-R), Lucknow, 226002, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education 
and Research Raebareli (NIPER-R), Lucknow, 226002, Uttar Pradesh, India. 
41.abhishek@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Banasthali Vidyapith, Tonk, 304022, Rajasthan, India. 
skspharmacology@yahoo.com.
(6)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education 
and Research Raebareli (NIPER-R), Lucknow, 226002, Uttar Pradesh, India. 
nidhi1.srivastava@niperraebareli.edu.in.

Neuronal degeneration is a widespread complication associated with ageing, with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) being one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative 
disorders. AD is marked by limited treatment options and significant side 
effects, prompting growing interest in natural compounds for their therapeutic 
potential. This study evaluates the neuroprotective effects of spirilloxanthin, 
a major bioactive compound identified in the flower extract of Verbesina 
encelioides (VFE), against scopolamine-induced neurobehavioral impairments in a 
rat model of AD. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis confirmed 
spirilloxanthin as a key constituent of the extract. The administration of 
purified VFE to rats exhibiting AD-like symptoms significantly improved learning 
and memory. Biochemical analyses further revealed enhanced cognitive performance 
and a notable reduction in free radical production, indicating mitigation of 
oxidative stress. Complementary in silico molecular docking studies were 
performed to examine the interactions between spirilloxanthin and gingkolide A 
with acetylcholinesterase, shedding light on their potential mechanisms of 
action. In summary, the study demonstrates that VFE improves cognitive function 
and counteracts scopolamine-induced deficits, highlighting V. encelioides as a 
promising natural therapeutic candidate for neurodegenerative conditions such as 
dementia and Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05056-4
PMID: 40437285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


89. Geroscience. 2025 May 28. doi: 10.1007/s11357-025-01717-3. Online ahead of 
print.

Effects of electrical muscle stimulation on cognitive function and 
neuropathology in senescence-accelerated mouse (SAMP8) model of aging-associated 
cognitive decline.

Jiang H(1), Zhao T(1), He C(1), Liu B(1), Ai W(1), Chen Y(1), Moriyama H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Science, Graduate School of Health Sciences, 
Kobe University, Kobe, Japan.
(2)Life and Medical Sciences Area, Health Sciences Discipline, Kobe University, 
Tomogaoka 7-10-2, Suma-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 654-0142, Japan. 
morihide@harbor.kobe-u.ac.jp.

The global increase in aging populations has heightened the urgency to develop 
effective interventions for age-related cognitive decline. Skeletal muscle has 
recently emerged as a potential modulator of brain health, particularly in the 
context of aging. This study investigates the effects of electrical muscle 
stimulation (EMS) on cognitive function and neuropathology in 
Senescence-Accelerated Mouse (SAMP8), a model of aging-associated cognitive 
decline. SAMP8 mice were divided into 3 groups: healthy controls (SAMR1), 
untreated SAMP8, and EMS-treated SAMP8. EMS was applied daily for 30 days, and 
behavioral, histological, and molecular markers were analyzed. Results 
demonstrated that EMS significantly improved muscle strength and endurance while 
reducing amyloid-β accumulation and phosphorylated tau (p-Tau) levels in the 
hippocampus. Furthermore, EMS decreased neuroinflammation and partially restored 
synaptic plasticity. However, EMS had limited effects on cortical pathology and 
cognitive function, suggesting that localized brain changes may not fully 
translate to behavioral improvements. These findings indicate that EMS exerts 
neuroprotective effects through skeletal muscle activation, providing a 
potential non-pharmacological intervention for age-related neurodegeneration. 
Future studies should explore the underlying mechanisms and translational 
applicability to human dementia treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to American Aging Association.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-025-01717-3
PMID: 40437281

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have no conflict of interest to declare.


90. Biomed Res. 2025;46(3):119-128. doi: 10.2220/biomedres.46.119.

The distinct effect between Amyloid β (1‒40) and Amyloid β (1‒42) on the 
TRAP-stimulated platelet activation in diabetes mellitus.

Omura T(1), Usui C(1), Matsushima-Nishiwaki R(1)(2), Kozawa O(1)(2), Tokuda 
H(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Metabolic Research, Research Institute, National Center for 
Geriatrics and Gerontology, Obu, Aichi, Japan.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Gifu, Japan.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, National Center for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology, Obu, Aichi, Japan.

Amyloid β (Aβ) (1‒40) is the major form in amyloid plaques, while Aβ (1‒42) is 
predominant in neuronal plaques. Anti-Aβ antibodies are clinically accepted for 
Alzheimer's disease treatment to remove Aβ from neuronal plaques; however, 
increase of intracranial hemorrhagic risk is a major concern. We reported that 
Aβ (1‒40) inhibits thrombin receptor-activating protein (TRAP)-induced platelet 
activation in healthy volunteers, and the responsiveness of Aβ (1‒40) to the 
platelet activation is related to brain atrophy in diabetes mellitus (DM) 
patients. We investigated the difference between the effects of Aβ (1‒40) and Aβ 
(1‒42) on the platelet activation in DM participants. Both isoforms suppressed 
the platelet aggregation, but the effect of Aβ (1‒42) was smaller than Aβ 
(1‒40). The effect of Aβ (1‒42) on the TRAP-stimulated phosphorylation of p38 
mitogen-activated protein kinase and stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun 
N-terminal kinase was smaller than Aβ (1‒40). Although the differences were not 
clarified, the effective ratio of Aβ (1‒40) to Aβ (1‒42) on the PDGF-AB 
secretion effect was related to the ratio on the aggregation and the 
phosphorylated-HSP27 secretion. These results suggest that the difference of the 
effects exists between Aβ (1‒40) and Aβ (1‒42) on the TRAP-stimulated platelet 
activation individually in the DM patients.

DOI: 10.2220/biomedres.46.119
PMID: 40436763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Neuroscience. 2025 Jul 23;579:54-68. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.05.302.
 Epub 2025 May 26.

Exploring the combined neuroprotective effects of resveratrol and hesperidin in 
a scopolamine-induced rat model of cognitive impairment.

Bhattacharjee B(1), Shakya A(2), Shivavedi N(3), Sahu RK(4), Sandhanam K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Science and Engineering, 
Dibrugarh University, Dibrugarh, Assam 786004, India; School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Girijananda Chowdhury University-Tezpur Campus, 784501 Assam, India. 
Electronic address: bedanta1994@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Science and Engineering, 
Dibrugarh University, Dibrugarh, Assam 786004, India. Electronic address: 
anshulshakya@dibru.ac.in.
(3)Shri Ram Group of Institutions, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jabalpur 482002 Madhya 
Pradesh, India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal 
University (A Central University), Chauras Campus, Tehri Garhwal 249161 
Uttarakhand, India.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, SRM College of Pharmacy, SRMIST, Kattankulathur, 
Chennai 603203, India.

The occurrence of cognitive impairment in normal aging and sporadic Alzheimer's 
disease is linked to oxidative stress. Resveratrol, a polyphenolic molecule, and 
hesperidin, a flavanone glycoside have exhibited powerful anti-oxidant and 
neuroprotective effects. The present study was designed to explore the 
neurotherapeutic potential of combination between resveratrol and hesperidin as 
preventative herbal remedies to inhibit oxidative stress and cholinergic and 
mitochondrial dysfunction in scopolamine-induced cognitive impairments in rats. 
Resveratrol (20 mg/kg, p.o.), hesperidin (20 mg/kg, p.o.), and its combination 
were administered orally up to 21 days. Cognitive impairment was induced by 
intraperitoneal injection of scopolamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) to rats for 5 days 
(15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, and 19th). Learning and memory function in rats were 
appraised by using the Morris water maze. Subsequently, the content of 
oxidative-nitrosative stress parameters, the activity of acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE), electron transport chain complexes, brain-derived neurotrophic factor 
(BDNF), and pro-inflammatory cytokines mediators (TNF-α and IL-6) in hippocampus 
brain areas of rats were measured. Scopolamine treatment significantly produced 
learning and memory impairment, oxidative-nitrosative stress, cholinergic 
dysfunction, mitochondrial deficit, reduced BDNF, and increased TNF-α and IL-6 
levels. Whereas, resveratrol and hesperidin combination therapy effectively 
improved brain anti-oxidant status, lowered brain mitochondrial impairments, and 
neuro-inflammation in rats as compared to mono-therapy. Our findings 
demonstrated that the resveratrol and hesperidin combination group showed 
excellent anti-cognitive impairment properties compared to single therapy. The 
combination therapy exhibited a favorable effect in suppressing 
scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment, either additively, synergistically, or 
through distinct molecular pathways.

Copyright © 2025 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.05.302
PMID: 40436365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


92. Ageing Res Rev. 2025 Jul;109:102785. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102785. Epub
2025  May 26.

Effectiveness of virtual reality interventions on quality of life, cognitive 
function and physical function in older people with Alzheimer's disease: A 
systematic review.

Vásquez-Carrasco E(1), Hernandez-Martinez J(2), Sepúlveda-Ramírez M(3), Carmine 
F(4), Sandoval C(5), Nobari H(6), Valdés-Badilla P(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Occupational Therapy, Faculty of Psychology, Universidad de Talca, 
Talca 3465548, Chile; Centro de Investigación en Ciencias Cognitivas, Faculty of 
Psychology, Universidad de Talca 3465548, Chile; VITALIS Longevity Center, 
Universidad de Talca, Talca 3465548, Chile. Electronic address: 
edgar.vasquez@utalca.cl.
(2)Department of Physical Activity Sciences, Universidad de Los Lagos, Osorno 
5290000, Chile; Department of Education, Faculty of Humanities, Universidad de 
La Serena, La Serena 1700000, Chile. Electronic address: 
jordan.hernandez@ulagos.cl.
(3)School of Occupational Therapy, Faculty of Psychology, Universidad de Talca, 
Talca 3465548, Chile. Electronic address: mvictoriasepulvedar@gmail.com.
(4)Carrera de Medicina, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de La Frontera, Temuco 
4811230, Chile. Electronic address: f.carmine02@ufromail.cl.
(5)Escuela de Tecnología Médica, Facultad de Salud, Universidad Santo Tomás, Los 
Carreras 753, Osorno 5310431, Chile; Departamento de Medicina Interna, Facultad 
de Medicina, Universidad de La Frontera, Temuco 4811230, Chile; Núcleo 
Científico y Tecnológico en Biorecursos (BIOREN), Universidad de La Frontera, 
Temuco 4811230, Chile. Electronic address: cristian.sandoval@ufrontera.cl.
(6)Laboratorio de Fisiología del Esfuerzo (LFE), Department of Health and Human 
Performance, Faculty of Physical Activity and Sport Science (INEF), Universidad 
Politécnica de Madrid, Madrid 28040, Spain. Electronic address: 
hadi.nobari@upm.es.
(7)Department of Physical Activity Sciences, Faculty of Education Sciences, 
Universidad Católica del Maule, Talca 3530000, Chile; Sports Coach Career, 
Faculty of Life Sciences, Universidad Viña del Mar, Viña del Mar 2520000, Chile. 
Electronic address: valdesbadilla@gmail.com.

This systematic review aimed to evaluate and synthesize the scientific evidence 
of virtual reality (VR) interventions on quality of life, cognitive function, 
and physical function in older people with Alzheimer's disease (AD). A 
systematic review search until March 2025 using seven generic databases: PubMed, 
EBSCOhost, CINAHL Complete, Cochrane, ProQuest, Scopus, and Web of Science. The 
PRISMA, RoB 2, and GRADEpro tools were used to assess the methodological 
quality, risk of bias, and certainty of the evidence.The protocol was registered 
in PROSPERO database, CRD42024629853. Of 3347 records identified across the 
databases, seven studies were analyzed using the PICOS format. This review 
included 517 older people with AD (mean age 76.5 years; 57.5 % female). Due to 
the heterogeneity of the assessment tools, a meta-analysis could not be 
performed. Although no consistent significant differences were found between the 
experimental and control groups, several individual studies reported 
improvements. Specifically, two studies showed improvements in quality of life 
and cognitive function, while three reported enhancements in physical function. 
The interventions included immersive cognitive training, exergaming, 
Kinect-based systems, and Physiomat platforms, with durations ranging from 4 to 
16 weeks and frequencies of 2-5 sessions per week. Analysis of the reviewed 
studies suggests that VR interventions may benefit cognitive function, physical 
function, and, to a lesser extent, quality of life in older people with AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102785
PMID: 40436354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


93. Brain Res. 2025 Sep 1;1862:149718. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149718. Epub 
2025 May 26.

A comprehensive approach to Alzheimer's Disease: Exploring Nanotechnology, 
treatment Innovations, and sex differences.

Chavez-López LM(1), Silvestre-Martínez JH(2), Del Carmen Lugo-Ibarra K(3), 
Castro-Ceseña AB(4).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Medicina, Centro de Estudios Universitarios Xochicalco Campus 
Ensenada, San Francisco 1139, Fraccionamiento Misión, C.P., 22830 Ensenada, Baja 
CA, México; Departamento de Innovación Biomédica, Centro de Investigación 
Científica y de Educación Superior de Ensenada, Baja California (CICESE), 
Carretera Ensenada-Tijuana No. 3918, Zona Playitas, C.P., 22860 Ensenada, Baja 
CA, México.
(2)Departamento de Innovación Biomédica, Centro de Investigación Científica y de 
Educación Superior de Ensenada, Baja California (CICESE), Carretera 
Ensenada-Tijuana No. 3918, Zona Playitas, C.P., 22860 Ensenada, Baja CA, México; 
Centro de Nanociencias y Nanotecnología, (CNYN,UNAM), Carretera Tijuana-Ensenada 
Km 107, C.P., 22860 Ensenada, Baja CA, México.
(3)Universidad Autónoma de Baja California, Facultad de Ciencias Marinas, C.P., 
22860 Ensenada, Baja CA, México. Electronic address: dlugo@uabc.edu.mx.
(4)Departamento de Innovación Biomédica, Centro de Investigación Científica y de 
Educación Superior de Ensenada, Baja California (CICESE), Carretera 
Ensenada-Tijuana No. 3918, Zona Playitas, C.P., 22860 Ensenada, Baja CA, México; 
SECIHTI- Departamento de Innovación Biomédica, Centro de Investigación 
Científica y de Educación Superior de Ensenada, Baja California (CICESE), 
Carretera Ensenada-Tijuana No. 3918, Zona Playitas, C.P., 22860 Ensenada, Baja 
CA, México. Electronic address: acastro@cicese.mx.

In the world, over 50 million people are living with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
and in thirty years, this number is expected to double or even exceed that. AD 
is a form of dementia characterized by memory loss, language difficulties, and 
impaired thinking skills. It involves the accumulation of beta-amyloid plaques 
and tau tangles in the brain, leading to neurodegeneration and disrupted neuron 
communication. After diagnosis, patients typically survive for four to eight 
years, though some may live up to 20 years. Currently, there is no cure, and the 
available treatment options are limited in improving the quality of patients' 
lives. However, a promising perspective for treatment based on nanotechnology 
narrows down the possibility of personalized treatment. In this review, we 
explore several topics related to Alzheimer's disease to provide a comprehensive 
understanding of how nanotechnology can enhance treatment approaches. We examine 
various types of nano treatments and delivery methods, as well as the challenges 
they face and their associated benefits. Additionally, we highlight current nano 
treatments in development and discuss improved cell and animal models that can 
effectively test these treatments for patient safety. We also address sex 
differences in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease, which may allow for 
more targeted treatment strategies. By considering these factors in conjunction, 
we move closer to realizing personalized medicine, ultimately improving the 
quality of life for patients. Nano treatments offer the potential for more 
specific, safer, and effective solutions in managing Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149718
PMID: 40436233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


94. Value Health Reg Issues. 2025 Sep;49:101130. doi: 10.1016/j.vhri.2025.101130.
 Epub 2025 May 27.

Evaluating the Cost-Effectiveness of Pharmacological Therapy in Alzheimer 
Disease in Brazil.

Price PU(1), Heggie R(2), Moriguti JC(3), Pereira LRL(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, 
Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: pricejnr@usp.br.
(2)Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment (HEHTA), School of Health 
and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland, UK.
(3)School of Medicine of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão 
Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, 
Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.

OBJECTIVES: Alzheimer disease (AD) is a worsening neurodegenerative disorder and 
the leading cause of dementia, accounting for 60% to 70% of cases. It 
contributes significantly to disability, caregiver reliance, and is the eighth 
leading cause of death. AD is one of the most expensive diseases to treat, 
creating an economic burden for the healthcare system and families of patients. 
Dementia care costs in Brazil are projected to reach $49.2 billion by 2030, 
$63.5 billion by 2040, and $77.3 billion by 2050. This study evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (standard of care [SoC]) 
in slowing disease progression compared with no pharmacological therapy (best 
supportive care [BSC]), lecanemab, and donanemab in mild AD patients.
METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model to simulate AD progression, 
using cost and health utility data specific to Brazil, supplemented with data 
from the literature when necessary. The model covers a 20-year horizon from both 
the Brazilian national healthcare system and societal perspectives. Costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were discounted at 3.5% per year to reflect 
their present value. Costs in local currencies were converted to US dollars 
(US$) and inflation-adjusted to 2024 values.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis from the healthcare perspective, SoC was more 
clinically effective than BSC with a cost per QALY of $5211. For lecanemab 
versus SoC, the cost per QALY gained was $2 098 225, whereas donanemab versus 
lecanemab was $1 460 400.
CONCLUSIONS: The SoC is a cost-effective pharmacological intervention for AD, 
offering the lowest cost per QALY gains over a 20-year period.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vhri.2025.101130
PMID: 40435868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Disclosures Author disclosure forms can 
be accessed below in the Supplemental Material section.


95. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Oct 5;295:117799. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117799.
Epub  2025 May 25.

Exploiting acylaminopyrazole scaffold for polypharmacology approach in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Orioli R(1), Sarno G(2), Seghetti F(1), Gobbi S(1), Belluti F(1), Feoli A(2), 
Massenzio F(3), Monti B(4), Spagnuolo R(1), Bartolini M(1), Castellano S(5), 
Bisi A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Via Belmeloro 6, 40126 Bologna, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Università degli Studi di Salerno, Via Giovanni Paolo 
II, 132, 84084 Fisciano SA, Italy.
(3)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Via Selmi 3, 40126, Bologna, Italy.
(4)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Via Selmi 3, 40126, Bologna, Italy; IRCCS Istituto delle Scienze 
Neurologiche di Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Università degli Studi di Salerno, Via Giovanni Paolo 
II, 132, 84084 Fisciano SA, Italy. Electronic address: scastellano@unisa.it.
(6)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Via Belmeloro 6, 40126 Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: 
alessandra.bisi@unibo.it.

Neurodegenerative diseases currently represent one of the most serious health 
pitfalls for the world population. Considering their multifactorial nature, 
research has focused on the study of small molecules able to simultaneously 
tackle different targets involved in their onset and progression. In this paper, 
two sets of acylaminopyrazole-based compounds were designed to exploit the 
aminopyrazole core as a privileged structure properly decorated with an acyl 
moiety and a further amide function, connected with a proper spacer. Indeed, 
acylated aminopyrazoles could be able to establish the appropriate hydrogen bond 
pattern to both bind GSK-3β, responsible for tau hyperphosphorylation, prevent 
the formation of insoluble Aβ-protein aggregates and have the structural 
features to show chelating properties towards metals involved in 
neuroinflammation. The collection of compounds was tested in vitro for GSK-3β 
inhibition activity, antiaggregating and chelating properties. Selected 
compounds were able to inhibit GSK-3β in the low micromolar range with a 
reversible and competitive mechanism of action, as established by Microfluidic 
Mobility Shift Assay (MMSA) and showed metal chelating ability. Preliminary 
Structure Activity Relationships (SARs) to hit these distinct and interconnected 
targets for neuromodulation were established. Finally, selected compounds showed 
good apparent permeability values in parallel artificial membrane permeability 
assay (PAMPA) together with good cellular safety profile. The collected results 
validated acylaminopyrazole as promising scaffold for the development of 
multitarget-directed ligands. Compounds 1c and 4c emerged as promising 
prototypes, and deserve further optimization in the search for drug candidates 
for polypharmacological approach in neurodegenerative disease.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117799
PMID: 40435831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


96. Aging Ment Health. 2025 May 28:1-8. doi: 10.1080/13607863.2025.2506774.
Online  ahead of print.

A pilot randomized mobile health mindfulness intervention for older adult 
caregivers of family members with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias.

Gallegos AM(1), Chapman BP(1), Kaplan J(2), Van Orden KA(1), Heffner KL(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, 
NY, USA.
(2)Northwest ADHD Treatment Center, Portland, OR, USA.
(3)School of Nursing, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: To examine feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary effectiveness 
of a mindfulness training in lonely older adult caregivers for family members 
with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias using mobile health technology.
METHOD: This was a two-arm randomized controlled trial: 55 caregivers were 
randomized to a 14-day (a) smartphone-based mindfulness training (Headspace 
mobile app; n = 24) or (b) active control (Breathing app; n = 31). Loneliness 
was assessed using end-of-day diary surveys pre- and post-training.
RESULTS: A total of 50 caregivers completed the training and pre- and 
post-training assessments (91%), and all who completed the post-training 
assessment reported they were satisfied or very satisfied with the program. A 
secondary aim was to examine whether the mobile health mindfulness training 
intervention reduced loneliness. A mixed effect linear model using end-of-day 
survey-sampled loneliness showed a non-significant decline in loneliness among 
participants in the mindfulness group (p = .27). Participants who used the 
breathing app demonstrated a significant decrease in loneliness (p = .00).
CONCLUSION: The 14-day breathing training may have provided a more targeted 
approach to improving subjective loneliness in this population. Overall, these 
results demonstrate that older caregivers can use technology to improve 
experiences of loneliness.

Plain Language Summary: Older adult caregivers of family members with 
Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias are disproportionately affected by 
loneliness and social isolation, but interventions to improve loneliness in this 
population have had limited success. Findings from this study indicate that 
mobile health mindfulness training is feasible and acceptable for ADRD 
caregivers experiencing significant loneliness, and that a short-term mobile 
health breathing intervention can significantly reduce loneliness. These results 
support the feasibility among older adult caregivers to use mobile health and 
have access to interventions that improve loneliness.

DOI: 10.1080/13607863.2025.2506774
PMCID: PMC12353919
PMID: 40435371

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


97. Brain. 2025 May 28:awaf200. doi: 10.1093/brain/awaf200. Online ahead of
print.

CSF proteomics of semorinemab Alzheimer's disease trials identifies cell-type 
specific signatures.

Abdel-Haleem AM(1), Casavant E(2), Toth B(3), Teng E(4), Monteiro C(4), Pandya 
NJ(5), Glock C(6)(7), Hoogenraad CC(6), Friedman BA(7), Yeh FL(2), Anania VG(2), 
Novikova G(7).

Author information:
(1)Roche Informatics, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Mississauga, ON L5N 5M8, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Translational Medicine, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, 
CA 94080, USA.
(3)Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA 94080, USA.
(4)Department of Early Clinical Development-OMNI, Genentech, Inc., South San 
Francisco, CA 94080, USA.
(5)Human Pathobiology & OMNI Reverse Translation, Genentech, Inc., South San 
Francisco, CA 94080, USA.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA 94080, 
USA.
(7)gRED Computational Sciences, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA 94080, 
USA.

Targeting of tau pathology has long been proposed as a potential therapeutic 
strategy for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Semorinemab is a humanized IgG4 
monoclonal antibody that binds to all known isoforms of full-length tau with 
high affinity and specificity. Semorinemab's safety and efficacy have been 
studied in two Phase 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
parallel-group clinical trials: Tauriel (prodromal-to-mild AD; NCT03289143; in 
which semorinemab failed to demonstrate clinical efficacy) and Lauriet 
(mild-to-moderate AD; NCT03828747. However, semorinemab was associated with a 
significant slowing in progression in a co-primary endpoint of cognition only in 
Lauriet but not in Tauriel. Proteomic profiling of CSF collected in these trials 
was performed to gain a better understanding of the effect of semorinemab in 
light of the different clinical outcomes. CSF was collected from a subset of 
patients at baseline and after 49 or 73 weeks in Tauriel and baseline and after 
49 or 61 weeks in Lauriet. Samples were analyzed using single-shot FAIMS-DIA-MS 
and analyzed with Spectronaut and MS Stats. Proteomics results were integrated 
with publicly available single-nucleus brain datasets to contextualize cellular 
expression profiles of differentially expressed proteins. A novel proteomics 
dataset was generated using more than 250 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples 
where more than 3500 proteins were detected. Treatment-associated proteomic 
signatures were defined for each clinical trial as the set of proteins 
significantly elevated in the treatment arm in the respective trial. Integration 
of the corresponding gene signatures with brain single-nucleus RNA-seq datasets 
from AD and healthy age-matched controls revealed that the Lauriet signature 
genes were enriched in microglia, while Tauriel signature genes were more 
broadly expressed across brain cell types. Furthermore, the Lauriet gene 
signature was significantly upregulated in microglia from AD patients compared 
to non-demented controls. The elevation of proteins such as CHI3L1 and GPNMB 
with treatment suggested an activated glial state. This study demonstrates the 
utility of CSF clinical proteomics to assess the pharmacodynamic response of 
semorinemab and contributes to our understanding of how an anti-tau antibody 
influences disease-relevant pathophysiology in AD.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact 
reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other 
permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions 
link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awaf200
PMID: 40435316


98. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2025 Apr-Jun 01;39(2):123-133. doi: 
10.1097/WAD.0000000000000677. Epub 2025 May 28.

Protocol for a Randomized Phase II/III Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Trial to 
Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Extended-Release Metformin in Amnestic Mild 
Cognitive Impairment: Metformin in Alzheimer Dementia Prevention (MAP).

Luchsinger JA(1), Devanand D(1), Goldberg TE(1), Cammack S(1), 
Hernández-Santiago G(1), Oishi K(2), Jagust W(3), Baker S(3), Landau S(3), 
Yenokyan G(4), Betz J(4), Mayers S(5), Eyzaguirre LM(2), Hanley D(2); MAP Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY.
(2)Department of Neurology, BIOS Clinical Trial Coordinating Center, Trial 
Innovation Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
(3)University of California-Berkeley, Berkeley, CA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD.
(5)Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN.

BACKGROUND: Metformin has been suggested as a possible strategy for the 
prevention of Alzheimer disease (AD) and AD related dementias. An early phase II 
clinical trial of short acting metformin versus placebo showed preliminary 
evidence of efficacy and safety in slowing cognitive decline among persons with 
amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) without diabetes.
OBJECTIVE: To conduct a phase II/III randomized clinical of extended-release 
metformin versus placebo in participants with aMCI without diabetes.
METHODS: Ratio of 1:1 randomized placebo-controlled trial of extended-release 
metformin in 326 persons with aMCI without diabetes, aged 55 to 90 years, 
lasting 18 months, with 4 visits every 6 months including baseline. The primary 
outcome is changes in total recall in the Free and Cued Selective Reminding 
Test. Secondary outcomes include (1) changes in global cognitive performance, 
measured with the Alzheimer Disease Cooperative Study Preclinical Alzheimer 
Cognitive Composite (ADCS-PACC); (2) changes in neurodegeneration, ascertained 
as cortical thickness in areas affected by AD on brain MRI; (3) changes in 
cerebrovascular disease, ascertained as white matter hyperintensities (WMH) 
volume on brain MRI; (4) changes in whole brain amyloid ß (Aß) SUVR and in 
incident amyloid positivity; (5) changes in tau SUVR in a composite brain region 
comprising medial and inferolateral temporal cortex; (6) changes in plasma AD 
biomarkers.
CONCLUSION: Observational studies and pilot trials suggest that metformin may 
help prevent cognitive decline in neurodegenerative disorders. This clinical 
trial aims to assess metformin's potential in preventing cognitive decline in 
at-risk individuals and its impact on biomarkers indicative of disease 
modification.

Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/WAD.0000000000000677
PMID: 40434891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.L. has been a consultant to Merck KGaA and the 
Rand Corporation, is a consultant to Novo-Nordisk, and receives a stipend from 
Wolters-Kluwer as Editor in Chief of the Journal Alzheimer Disease and 
Associated Disorders. J.B. holds equity and future royalties from Mi 
Diagnostics. The remaining authors declare no conflicts of interest.


99. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2025 Jun 3;122(22):e2427257122. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2427257122. Epub 2025 May 28.

Nanoimmunomodulation of the Aβ-STING feedback machinery in microglia for 
Alzheimer's disease treatment.

Tian L(#)(1), Long G(#)(1), Zhu S(1), Wang Y(1), Xu P(2), Liu L(1), Yao H(3), 
Fang S(4), Chen S(5), Li S(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, China 
Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210009, China.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering, College of Pharmacy, Inner Mongolia 
Medical University, Hohhot 010110, China.
(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, 
China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210009, China.
(4)School of Biopharmacy, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210009, 
China.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, 
China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Neurology and Oncology Drug Development, Nanjing 
210009, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Imbalanced production and clearance of amyloid-β (Aβ) is a hallmark pathological 
feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). While several monoclonal antibodies 
targeting Aβ have shown reductions in amyloid burden, their impact on cognitive 
function remains controversial, with the added risk of inflammatory side 
effects. Dysregulated stimulator of interferon genes (STING) signaling is 
implicated in neurodegenerative disorders, yet the biological interaction 
between this pathway and Aβ, as well as their combined influence on AD 
progression, is poorly understood. Here, we show that while microglia play a 
protective role in clearing extracellular Aβ, excessive Aβ engulfment triggers 
the cytosolic leakage of mitochondrial DNA for cGAS-STING cascade. This creates 
a negative feedback loop that not only exacerbates neuroinflammation but also 
impairs further Aβ clearance. To address this, we present a nanomedicine 
approach termed "Aβ-STING Synergistic ImmunoSilencing Therapy (ASSIST)". ASSIST 
comprises STING inhibitors encapsulated within a blood-brain barrier 
(BBB)-permeable polymeric micelle that also serves as an Aβ scavenger. Through a 
multivalent interaction mechanism, ASSIST efficiently destabilizes Aβ plaques 
and prevents monomer aggregation, subsequently promoting the engulfment of the 
dissociated Aβ by microglia rather than neurocytes. Furthermore, the STING 
signaling induced by excessive Aβ uptake is blocked, reducing inflammation and 
restoring microglial homeostatic functions involved in Aβ clearance. Intravenous 
administration of ASSIST significantly reduces Aβ burden and improves cognition 
in AD mice, with minimal cerebral amyloid angiopathy or microhemorrhages. We 
provide a proof-of-concept nanoengineering strategy to target the maladaptive 
immune feedback loop arising from conventional immunotherapy for AD treatment.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2427257122
PMCID: PMC12146763
PMID: 40434641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:The authors 
declare no competing interest.


100. Acta Neuropathol. 2025 May 28;149(1):52. doi: 10.1007/s00401-025-02893-4.

Thalamic atrophy in multiple sclerosis is associated with tract disconnection 
and altered microglia.

Rodriguez-Mogeda C(#)(1)(2), Koubiyr I(#)(2)(3), Prouskas SE(2)(3), Georgallidou 
M(3), van der Pol SMA(1)(2), Fernandez RF(1), de Graaf YG(3), van der Werf 
YD(3), Jonkman LE(3), Schenk GJ(2)(3), Barkhof F(2)(4)(5), Hulst HE(3)(6), Witte 
ME(1)(2), Schoonheim MM(#)(7)(8), de Vries HE(#)(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)MS Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC Location VUmc, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Anatomy and Neurosciences, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De 
Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Queen Square Institute of Neurology and Centre for Medical Image Computing, 
University College London, London, WC1E 6BT, UK.
(6)Institute of Psychology, Health, Medical and Neuropsychology Unit, Leiden 
University, Wassenaarseweg 52, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(7)MS Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC Location VUmc, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. m.schoonheim@amsterdamumc.nl.
(8)Anatomy and Neurosciences, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De 
Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. m.schoonheim@amsterdamumc.nl.
(#)Contributed equally

Thalamic atrophy already occurs in the early stages of multiple sclerosis (MS) 
and continues progressively throughout the disease. Demyelination is one of the 
main pathological hallmarks of MS and yet, thalamic demyelination does not 
correlate well with thalamic atrophy. By combining post-mortem magnetic 
resonance imaging with immunohistochemistry of thalami from 13 control and 13 MS 
donors, we investigated the underlying pathological contributors of thalamic 
atrophy and pathology. We first assessed the volumes of four thalamic nuclei 
groups (anterior, lateral, medial and posterior). Then, diffusion weighted 
imaging was used to assess the microstructural integrity of white matter tracts 
connecting each thalamic nuclei group. In addition, we studied myelination, 
inflammation, neurodegeneration and microglial activation by 
immunohistochemistry. We uncovered that medial and posterior thalamic nuclei 
were more atrophic compared to the anterior and lateral nuclei. Bilateral 
posterior nuclei and the right medial and anterior nuclei showed reduced 
fractional anisotropy in connected white matter tracks. We further show that 
microglial cells in the mediodorsal nuclei have an increased density and 
morphological complexity in MS compared to control donors. Microglia show signs 
of phagocytosis of pre-synapses, although we did not observe an overall synaptic 
loss in the thalamus of MS donors. These microglial changes within mediodorsal 
nuclei correlated with lower medial thalamic volume. Taken together, this study 
provides evidence that thalamic (subnuclear) atrophy relates tostructural 
thalamic network disconnection and within-thalamic microglial changes, but not 
thalamic demyelination. These findings could impact future treatment strategies 
aimed at thalamic neuroprotection.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00401-025-02893-4
PMCID: PMC12119693
PMID: 40434526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: IK has 
received research grants from LabEx TRAIL (Translational Research and Advanced 
Imaging Laboratory) and ARSEP (Fondation pour l’Aide à la Recherche sur la 
Sclérose En Plaques). MS serves on the editorial boards of Neurology, Multiple 
Sclerosis Journal and Frontiers in Neurology, receives research support from the 
Dutch MS Research Foundation, Eurostars-EUREKA, ARSEP, Amsterdam Neuroscience 
and ZonMW and has served as a consultant for or received research support from 
Atara Biotherapeutics, Biogen, Celgene/Bristol Meyers Squibb, EIP, Sanofi, 
MedDay and Merck. FB is supported by the NIHR biomedical research centre at 
UCLH, and is in the steering committee or Data Safety Monitoring Board member 
for Biogen, Merck, Eisai and Prothena. FB is advisory board member for 
Combinostics, Scottish Brain Sciences, Alzheimer Europe and is consultant for 
Roche, Celltrion, Rewind Therapeutics, Merck, Bracco. FB is also in research 
agreements with ADDI, Merck, Biogen, GE Healthcare, Roche and co-founder and 
shareholder of Queen Square Analytics LTD. LJ receives active funding from the 
Alzheimer Association (AARG-22–974381), The Dutch Top Sector Life Sciences and 
Health (S-000438), The Netherlands Organization for Health Research and 
Development (09120012110015), and Imeka.