1. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 2025 Apr;36(2):207-231. doi: 10.1016/j.nec.2024.11.008. 
Epub 2025 Feb 5.

Diagnostic and Prognostic Biomarkers of Idiopathic Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus 
in Cerebrospinal Fluid and Blood.

Kamalian A(1), Masoudi M(2), Foroughmand I(1), Moghekar A(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
MD, USA.
(2)Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Neurology Department, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
MD, USA. Electronic address: amoghek1@jhmi.edu.

Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) is a treatable condition marked 
by gait disturbances, cognitive decline, and urinary incontinence. Biomarkers 
play a crucial role in distinguishing iNPH from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
predicting shunt surgery outcomes. Aβ1-42, Aβ1-40, t-tau, and p-tau181 
differentiate iNPH from AD, with iNPH showing a higher Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratio and 
normal tau levels. Neurofilament light chain and soluble amyloid precursor 
protein derivatives provide prognostic insights with lower preoperative levels 
linked to better surgical outcomes. Elevated LRG-1 and MCP-1 in cerebrospinal 
fluid aid in diagnosis and predict favorable responses to shunt surgery, 
enhancing clinical decision making and patient care.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nec.2024.11.008
PMID: 40054974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Chem Biol Interact. 2025 May 1;412:111459. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111459.
Epub  2025 Mar 5.

The anti-Alzheimer's disease effects of ganoderic acid A by inhibiting 
ferroptosis-lipid peroxidation via activation of the NRF2/SLC7A11/GPX4 signaling 
pathway.

Lu Q(1), Shao N(1), Fang Z(1), Ouyang Z(1), Shen Y(1), Yang R(2), Liu H(2), Cai 
B(3), Wei T(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Anhui University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China.
(2)College of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Anhui University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China; Institute of Integrated Chinese and 
Western Medicine, Anhui Academy of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China; 
Medical Basic Research Innovation Center for Integrated Chinese and Western 
Medicine in the Prevention and Treatment of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Anhui 
University of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China.
(3)College of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Anhui University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China; Institute of Integrated Chinese and 
Western Medicine, Anhui Academy of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China; 
Medical Basic Research Innovation Center for Integrated Chinese and Western 
Medicine in the Prevention and Treatment of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Anhui 
University of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China. Electronic address: 
caibiao@ahtcm.edu.cn.
(4)College of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Anhui University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China; Institute of Integrated Chinese and 
Western Medicine, Anhui Academy of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China; 
Medical Basic Research Innovation Center for Integrated Chinese and Western 
Medicine in the Prevention and Treatment of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Anhui 
University of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China. Electronic address: 
weitao88888@ahtcm.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a degenerative disease of the central nervous 
system, characterized by a gradual decline in cognitive and memory abilities, 
social disorders, and behavioral abnormalities. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent 
type of programmed cell death, is closely associated with the pathogenesis of 
AD. Ferroptosis is characterized by the accumulation of iron within cells, 
leading to increased oxidative stress, and ultimately lipid peroxidation and 
cell death. Ganoderic acid A (GAA), one of the major pharmacologically active 
components in Ganoderma lucidum, exhibits an excellent neuroprotective effect 
against AD. However, it is unclear whether GAA improves the symptoms of AD by 
inhibiting ferroptosis. This study investigated the anti-AD effects of GAA 
through both in vivo and in vitro experiments, and determined its molecular 
mechanism from the perspective of ferroptosis modulation. The results showed 
that GAA administration attenuated hippocampal neuronal loss, improved 
mitochondrial ultrastructure, and enhanced the memory and learning ability of 
the AD mice. In vitro assays suggested that GAA effectively protected HT22 AD 
cells against ferroptosis-related morphological damage, enhanced their 
antioxidant capacity, maintained their iron metabolism, and reduced 
mitochondrial dysfunction. Moreover, the immunofluorescence and western blotting 
results showed that the levels of NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2 (NRF2), 
glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), and solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) 
both in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice and amyloid beta (Aβ)25-35-induced HT22 
AD cells were markedly enhanced after GAA administration. In summary, these 
results revealed that GAA improves AD by activating on the NRF2/SLC7A11/GPX4 
axis to inhibit ferroptosis-lipid peroxidation.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111459
PMID: 40054827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


3. Value Health. 2025 Jun;28(6):829-838. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2025.02.011. Epub
2025  Mar 5.

The Value of Positron Emission Tomography for Confirmation of Alzheimer's 
Disease in the Era of Amyloid-Targeting Therapies.

Veljanoska E(1), Gomes S(2), Szende A(3), Cabra A(4), Munter-Young R(5), Gordois 
A(3).

Author information:
(1)Fortrea, Munich, Germany. Electronic address: emilija.veljanoska@fortrea.com.
(2)Fortrea, Lisbon, Portugal.
(3)Fortrea, Leeds, England, UK.
(4)GE HealthCare Pharmaceutical Diagnostics, Miami, FL, USA.
(5)GE HealthCare Pharmaceutical Diagnostics, Stamford, CT, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Amyloid-targeting therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD), such as 
lecanemab, target and reduce brain β-amyloid plaques. To initiate therapy 
accurately, confirming the presence of brain β-amyloid plaques is necessary. 
This research investigated the added value and cost-effectiveness of 
18F-flutemetamol positron emission tomography (PET) in the United States.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness model was developed to evaluate the differential 
diagnostic accuracy for AD and associated clinical and economic outcomes between 
18F-flutemetamol PET imaging and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) testing. The model 
simulates the impact of the diagnostic modality choice in a hypothetical patient 
cohort with mild cognitive impairment or suspected AD and aged 40 to 79 years 
for eligibility to receive Amyloid-targeting therapy.
RESULTS: The use of 18F-flutemetamol PET to diagnose AD results in an additional 
14% of patients correctly identified versus CSF testing. Furthermore, the use of 
18F-flutemetamol PET leads to fewer patients expected to progress to 
moderate/severe AD (6.83% vs 6.91%) and is associated with decreased mortality 
(36.88% vs 37.06%). Over a patient's lifetime, 18F-flutemetamol PET contributes 
an additional 0.02 discounted quality-adjusted life years compared with CSF 
(4.91 vs 4.89) with an incremental discounted cost of $1405. This translates to 
a cost of $73 872 per quality-adjusted life year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with CSF testing, 18F-flutemetamol PET imaging is less 
invasive, leading to more patients being correctly diagnosed and targeted for 
appropriate therapy, which has a downstream impact on disease progression and 
mortality. The model suggests that 18F-flutemetamol PET is a cost-effective 
diagnostic modality for US payers.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2025.02.011
PMID: 40054769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Disclosures Author disclosure forms can 
be accessed below in the Supplemental Material section.


4. Neuron. 2025 Mar 19;113(6):817-837. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2025.02.004. Epub
2025  Mar 6.

The night's watch: Exploring how sleep protects against neurodegeneration.

Parhizkar S(1), Holtzman DM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Knight 
Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington University, St. Louis, MO 63110, 
USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Knight 
Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington University, St. Louis, MO 63110, 
USA. Electronic address: holtzman@wustl.edu.

Sleep loss is often regarded as an early manifestation of neurodegenerative 
diseases given its common occurrence and link to cognitive dysfunction. However, 
the precise mechanisms by which sleep disturbances contribute to 
neurodegeneration are not fully understood, nor is it clear why some individuals 
are more susceptible to these effects than others. This review addresses 
critical unanswered questions in the field, including whether sleep disturbances 
precede or result from neurodegenerative diseases, the functional significance 
of sleep changes during the preclinical disease phase, and the potential role of 
sleep homeostasis as an adaptive mechanism enhancing resilience against 
cognitive decline and neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2025.02.004
PMCID: PMC11925672
PMID: 40054454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests D.M.H. is as an 
inventor on a patent licensed by Washington University to C2N Diagnostics on the 
therapeutic use of anti-tau antibodies, US patent no. 9,834,596. D.M.H. 
co-founded and is on the scientific advisory board of C2N Diagnostics. D.M.H. is 
on the scientific advisory boards of Denali, Genentech, and Cajal Neuroscience 
and consults for Asteroid, Pfizer, and Roche.


5. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2025 Apr;392(4):103400. doi: 10.1016/j.jpet.2025.103400.
 Epub 2025 Feb 12.

γ-Secretase modulation inhibits amyloid plaque formation and growth and 
stimulates plaque regression in amyloid precursor protein/presenilin-1 mice.

Nordvall G(1), Yan P(2), Agholme L(3), Lundkvist J(4), Sandin J(5), Biverstål 
H(6), Winblad B(7), Zetterberg H(8), Klintenberg R(9), Ferm M(9), Cirrito JR(2), 
Lee JM(2).

Author information:
(1)AlzeCure Pharma AB, Huddinge, Sweden; Former AstraZeneca R&D, CNS & Pain 
Innovative Medicines, Södertälje, Sweden; Division of Neurogeriatrics, Care 
Sciences and Society, Department of Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, 
Sweden. Electronic address: gunnar.nordvall@alzecurepharma.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, Washington University, School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Former AstraZeneca R&D, CNS & Pain Innovative Medicines, Södertälje, Sweden; 
Division of Neurogeriatrics, Care Sciences and Society, Department of 
Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden; AlzeCure Foundation, 
Huddinge, Sweden.
(5)AlzeCure Pharma AB, Huddinge, Sweden; Former AstraZeneca R&D, CNS & Pain 
Innovative Medicines, Södertälje, Sweden; Division of Neurogeriatrics, Care 
Sciences and Society, Department of Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, 
Sweden.
(6)The Biosciences and Nutrition Unit (BioNut) at the Department of Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden.
(7)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Care Sciences and Society, Department of 
Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden; Theme Inflammation & Aging, 
Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge, Sweden.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden; Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of 
Neurology, Queen Square, London, United Kingdom; UK Dementia Research Institute 
at UCL, London, United Kingdom; Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, China; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, University 
of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin.
(9)Former AstraZeneca R&D, CNS & Pain Innovative Medicines, Södertälje, Sweden.

γ-Secretase modulators (GSMs) represent an emerging oral therapy for preventing 
and targeting Aβ-amyloidosis in Alzheimer disease. Aβ is a family of peptides of 
varying lengths where both the total and relative amounts of the individual Aβ 
peptides affect the process of amyloidosis. In contrast to inhibitors of Aβ 
synthesis, GSMs do not affect the total amount of Aβ peptides generated but 
decrease longer more amyloidogenic Aβ species while increasing the production of 
shorter less amyloidogenic Aβ peptides. In this study, we investigated how this 
modulation of Aβ production affects Aβ plaque dynamics in the brains of 
APP/PS1dE9 transgenic mice. Similar to studies with different inhibitors of Aβ 
synthesis, we found that 28 days of once-daily oral treatment with the GSM 
AZ4126 (100 μmol/kg) resulted in a strong reduction in plaque formation and 
plaque growth. In addition, and in contrast to Aβ production inhibitors, the GSM 
AZ4126 caused a significant reduction in the size of established Aβ plaques. 
Moreover, the antiamyloidogenic activity was accompanied by a marked reduction 
in brain interstitial fluid Aβ40 and Aβ42 and an increase in Aβ37. Treatment of 
induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cortical neurons with the GSM AZ4126 
reduced secreted Aβ40 and Aβ42 dose-dependently and with a complementary 
increase in Aβ37 and Aβ38. These studies unravel a previously unknown 
antiamyloidogenic effect of GSMs, suggesting that they promote the clearance of 
already established Aβ pathology in addition to their inhibition of Aβ amyloid 
formation. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Immunotherapies promoting Aβ-amyloid 
clearance have shown efficacy in early Alzheimer disease, but complementary Aβ 
targeting therapeutic approaches are needed. γ-Secretase modulators (GSMs) 
target Aβ production with an effective and tolerable mechanism. This study 
demonstrates that a GSM not only inhibits Aβ-amyloid formation but also promotes 
Aβ-plaque clearance in experiments conducted in an Aβ-amyloidosis mouse model 
and supports further development of GSMs as an effective oral treatment for 
Alzheimer disease.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpet.2025.103400
PMID: 40054389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest H.Z. has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
AlzeCure Pharma, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche; and is a cofounder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
J.L. is a cofounder and scientific advisor to AlzeCure Pharma. G.N. and J.S. are 
cofounders and employees of AlzeCure Pharma, that are developing GSMs.


6. Phytomedicine. 2025 May;140:156558. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156558. Epub
2025  Mar 1.

Edaravone dexborneol exerts anti-epileptic effects on rodent temporal lobe 
epilepsy by promoting NMDAR deactivation and inhibiting oxidative stress.

Qiu W(1), Chen R(2), Pan L(2), Li Y(2), Xu Y(2), Li Y(2), Guo A(2), Huang W(2), 
Tan T(3), Li P(4), Xie C(2), Xu H(2), Lin L(5), Wang X(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
325000, Zhejiang Province, PR China.
(2)Department of Neurology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, 325000, Zhejiang Province, PR China.
(3)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision and Brain 
Health), Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang Province, Institute 
of Aging, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, PR China.
(4)Shandong Institute of Brain Science and Brain-inspired Research, Shandong 
First Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, Shandong 
Province, PR China.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
325000, Zhejiang Province, PR China. Electronic address: linliwz@163.com.
(6)Department of Neurology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, 325000, Zhejiang Province, PR China; Key Laboratory of 
Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang Province, Institute of Aging, Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, PR China; Geriatric Medical Center, The 
First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 
Province, PR China; Key Laboratory of Novel Nuclide Technologies on Precision 
Diagnosis and Treatment & Clinical Transformation of Wenzhou City, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang Province, PR China. Electronic address: wang_xinshi@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Disease-modifying treatments with anti-epileptic effects are 
currently unavailable and urgently required for temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). 
Combined therapy targeting multiple mechanisms may offer a promising 
anti-epileptic strategy, given the complex processes underlying epileptogenesis.
PURPOSE: This study evaluates the effects of Edaravone Dexbroneol, a combination 
of Edaravone and Dexborneol in 4:1, on rat and mouse TLE models and an in vitro 
epileptiform activity model.
METHODS: The Pilocarpine-induced rat TLE model and the Kainic acid-induced mouse 
TLE model were used to assess the in vivo effect of Edaravone and/or Dexbornel. 
Primary neurons were utilized to evaluate the in vitro effect of drugs using 
calcium imaging, electrophysiological and biochemical analyses, as well as RNA 
sequencing.
RESULTS: Treatment of Edaravone Dexbornel during the latent period significantly 
alleviated epileptic seizures in rodents, mitigated cognitive impairment, and 
inhibited neuronal loss and astrocytic activation. In vitro, Edaravone 
Dexborneol inhibited the action potentials and protected primary hippocampal 
neurons from Mg2+-free-induced neurite injury. All these effects were 
significantly more pronounced in the group treated with the Edaravone Dexborneol 
mixture compared to either drug used individually. Furthermore, Edaravone can 
significantly inhibit Mg2+-free-induced calcium oscillations in primary neurons, 
probably by promoting the deactivation of NMDA receptors. RNA sequencing and 
RT-PCR analysis revealed that synergetic regulation of lipid metabolism, 
oxidative stress, apoptosis, and calcium signaling probably underlay the 
neuroprotective effect of Edaravone Dexbornel on epileptic neurons.
CONCLUSION: Edaravone Dexborneol exhibits antiepileptic effects and may fill the 
gap in disease-modifying treatments for TLE.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156558
PMID: 40054180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


7. J Med Internet Res. 2025 Feb 28;27:e54847. doi: 10.2196/54847.

Understanding Challenges and Emotions of Informal Caregivers of General Older 
Adults and People With Alzheimer Disease and Related Dementia: Comparative 
Study.

Huang NM(1), Wong LZ(2), Ho SS(1), Timothy B(3).

Author information:
(1)Nanyang Technological University, Wee Kim Wee School of Communication and 
Information, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Institute of High Performance Computing, Agency for Science, Technology and 
Research (A*STAR), Singapore, Singapore.
(3)National University of Singapore, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, Centre for 
Behavioural and Implementation Science Interventions, Singapore, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Faced with multiple challenges, informal caregivers often turn to 
online support communities for information and support. While scholarly 
attention has focused on experiences expressed by informal caregivers in these 
communities, how caregivers' challenges and emotional expressions vary across 
different health contexts remains understudied.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to examine and compare the challenges discussed by informal 
caregivers of general older adults and those of patients with Alzheimer disease 
and related dementia, as well as their emotional expressions, on Reddit. In 
addition, we examined how informal caregivers expressed their emotions in 
response to various challenges.
METHODS: We collected posts from 6 subreddits, including 3 subreddits on 
caregiving for older adults and 3 on caregiving for patients with Alzheimer 
disease and related dementia. Using topic modeling, we identified topics 
discussed by caregivers in the collected posts. We further used deep reading to 
contextualize these topics and understand the challenges behind them, conducted 
sentiment analysis to investigate their emotional expressions, and used Spearman 
rank-order correlation to examine the relationship between the obtained topics 
and emotions.
RESULTS: In total, 3028 posts were retrieved, including 1552 from older 
adult-related subreddits and 1476 from Alzheimer disease-related subreddits; 18 
key topics were identified, with the most frequent topics being expressing 
feelings (2178/3028, 71.93%) and seeking advice and support (1982/3028, 65.46%). 
Other topics covered various challenges in caregiving, such as duration of 
medical care (1954/3028, 64.53%), sleep and incontinence (1536/3028, 50.73%), 
financial issues (1348/3028, 44.52%), and nursing home (1221/3028, 40.32%). 
There was a positive, negligible correlation between expressing feelings and 
seeking advice and support (ρ=0.09, P<.001). Other topics also showed positive, 
negligible or weak correlations with these 2 topics but in distinct patterns. 
Posts from older adult-related subreddits were more focused on practical 
caregiving issues and seeking advice and support, whereas posts from Alzheimer 
disease-related subreddits emphasized health- and medical-related topics and 
expressing feelings. Caregivers in both contexts predominantly expressed 
negative emotions (older adults: 1263/1552, 81.38%; Alzheimer disease: 
1247/1476, 84.49%), with caregivers in Alzheimer disease-related subreddits 
exhibiting slightly greater fear and sadness (P<.001). Specific challenges were 
significantly correlated with negative emotions: duration of medicalcare was 
positively, weakly correlated with anger (ρ=0.25, P<.001), fear (ρ=0.25, 
P<.001), and sadness (ρ=0.22, P<.001). Medical appointments were positively, 
negligibly correlated with anger (ρ=0.10, P<.001), fear (ρ=0.09, P<.001), and 
sadness (ρ=0.06, P<.001). Sleep and incontinence (ρ=0.14, P<.001) and finances 
(ρ=0.24, P<.001) were positively, weakly correlated with anger.
CONCLUSIONS: By identifying the challenges and feelings expressed by caregivers 
for general older adults and caregivers for patients with Alzheimer disease and 
related dementia, our findings could inform health practitioners and policy 
makers in developing more targeted support interventions for informal caregivers 
in different contexts.

©Nova Mengxia Huang, Liang Ze Wong, Shirley S Ho, Bryan Timothy. Originally 
published in the Journal of Medical Internet Research (https://www.jmir.org), 
28.02.2025.

DOI: 10.2196/54847
PMCID: PMC11909488
PMID: 40053723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


8. J Neurol. 2025 Mar 7;272(4):256. doi: 10.1007/s00415-025-12960-1.

A dose-response meta-analysis of physical activity and the risk of alzheimer's 
disease in prospective studies.

Jiang Y(#)(1), Jin Z(#)(1), Wang H(#)(2), He X(2), Fu R(2), Yu X(1), Fu Q(2)(3), 
Tian J(4), Li W(1), Zhu X(1), Zhang S(5), Lu Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Nanjing Hospital of Chinese Medicine Affiliated to Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine, No.157 Daming Road, Nanjing, 210022, China.
(2)Hospital of Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, 610072, China.
(3)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact (HEI), McMaster 
University, Hamilton, L8S4L8, Canada.
(4)The First Clinical Medical College, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, 
Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(5)Hospital of Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, 610072, China. 
1343108750@qq.com.
(6)Nanjing Hospital of Chinese Medicine Affiliated to Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine, No.157 Daming Road, Nanjing, 210022, China. 
Sophieluo896@njucm.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) has become an increasing global health 
challenge, particularly with the accelerated aging of the population. Therefore, 
preventive research targeting AD has become especially important. In recent 
years, physical activity (PA), as a potential non-pharmacological intervention, 
has garnered increasing attention from researchers. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate the effect of PA on AD risk through systematic review and meta-analysis 
and to further explore its potential preventive benefits.
METHODS: The literature search for this study encompassed PubMed, Embase, Web of 
Science, and the Cochrane Library databases, covering publications from their 
inception until November 1, 2024. Only English-language publications were 
included. Stratified analyses were conducted to explore the relationship between 
PA and AD risk by combining multivariate-adjusted effect estimates using 
random-effects models, along with subgroup analyses, sensitivity analyses, 
multifactorial meta-regression, and dose-response analyses to comprehensively 
assess the association between PA and the risk of AD.
RESULTS: Ultimately, 29 studies were included in the primary analysis, along 
with 3 additional studies for supplemental analyses, involving 1,453,561 
participants, of whom 68,497 were diagnosed with AD. The results indicated that 
high-intensity PA significantly reduced the risk of AD by 26% (Hazard ratio 
[HR] = 0.74, 95% CI 0.67-0.83). Additionally, dose-response analyses revealed 
both linear and nonlinear associations, with linear dose-response results 
indicating a 15% reduction in AD risk for every 10 MET-h/wk increase in PA. 
Subgroup analyses indicated that the protective effect of PA was more pronounced 
in the non-obese population (BMI < 25) (HR = 0.65, 95% CI, 0.52-0.82), in 
individuals aged 75 years or older (HR = 0.57, 95% CI 0.48-0.67), and in 
non-APOE ε4 gene carriers (HR = 0.72, 95% CI 0.55-0.93), who exhibited greater 
protection. To explore the sources of heterogeneity among the included studies, 
a multifactorial meta-regression analysis was performed, which did not 
significantly explain the heterogeneity of the primary outcomes. Moreover, the 
robustness of the pooled results was confirmed through supplemental 
meta-analysis, subgroup analysis, and sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study support the potential of PA in reducing 
the risk of AD, particularly in non-obese populations, older age groups, and 
non-APOE ε4 gene carriers. PA holds significant potential in public health as a 
feasible and low-cost non-pharmacological intervention strategy.

© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-025-12960-1
PMID: 40053161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: On behalf of 
all authors, the corresponding author states that there is no conflict of 
interest. Ethics approval and consent to participate: Not applicable. Consent 
for publication: Not applicable.


9. J Neurochem. 2025 Mar;169(3):e70025. doi: 10.1111/jnc.70025.

Therapeutic Treatment With OLX-07010 Inhibited Tau Aggregation and Ameliorated 
Motor Deficits in an Aged Mouse Model of Tauopathy.

Davidowitz EJ(1)(2), Lopez P(2), Patel D(2), Jimenez H(3), Wolin A(3), Eun J(3), 
Adrien L(3), Koppel J(3), Morgan D(4), Davies P(3), Moe JG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Oligomerix, Inc., White Plains, New York, USA.
(2)Oligomerix, Inc., Bronx, New York, USA.
(3)The Litwin-Zucker Research Center for the Study of Alzheimer's Disease, The 
Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research, Northwell Health, Manhasset, New 
York, USA.
(4)Department of Translational Neuroscience and the Alzheimer's Alliance, 
Michigan State University, Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA.

Targeting tau protein is a strategy for the development of disease-modifying 
therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and numerous rare tauopathies. A small 
molecule approach targeting tau aggregation was used to select and optimize 
compounds inhibiting tau self-association in vitro that have translated in vivo 
in preventive studies in htau and P301L tau JNPL3 mouse models of tauopathy. In 
this therapeutic treatment study, aged JNPL3 mice with pre-existing tau 
aggregates were used to evaluate the therapeutic effect of OLX-07010. The study 
had a Baseline group of mice aged 7 months, a vehicle, and two dose groups 
treated until 12 months by administration in feed. The primary endpoint of the 
study was the reduction of insoluble tau aggregates with statistical 
significance. The secondary endpoints were dose-dependent reduction of insoluble 
tau aggregates, reduction of soluble tau, and improvement of motor behavior. 
ELISAs and immunoblots were used to determine the levels of tau and its 
aggregated forms including self-associated tau and Sarkosyl insoluble tau. 
Effect on motor behavior, as measured by Rotarod assay, was also assessed 
between the treatment groups. At the end of treatment, reduced levels of 
self-associated tau, Sarkosyl insoluble tau aggregates, and overall levels of 
tau in the heat-stable fraction with statistical significance in the cortex were 
observed. Treatment prevented the accumulation of tau aggregates above baseline, 
and in parallel, treatment groups had improved motor behavior in a Rotarod assay 
compared to baseline and vehicle control groups, suggesting that treatment was 
rescuing motor impairment in aged mice. The functional and biochemical readouts 
suggest that this small molecule has potential for treating neurodegenerative 
diseases characterized by tau aggregation such as AD and progressive 
supranuclear palsy.

© 2025 Oligomerix, Inc. Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.70025
PMCID: PMC11886763
PMID: 40052227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: E.D., P.L., D.P., and J.M. are full‐time 
employees of Oligomerix Inc. and own stocks in the company. D.M. consults with 
In Med, MindImmune, SynapsDx, and Hesperos on projects unrelated to this work. 
The remaining authors declare no conflicts of interest.


10. Toxicol Res (Camb). 2025 Mar 5;14(2):tfaf031. doi: 10.1093/toxres/tfaf031. 
eCollection 2025 Apr.

Coenzyme Q10 alleviates AlCl(3) and D-galactose induced Alzheimer via modulating 
oxidative burden and TLR-4/MAPK pathways and regulation microRNA in rat brain.

Nawar NF(1), Beltagy DM(2), Tousson E(3), El-Keey MM(1), Mohamed TM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Tanta 
University, 31527, Egypt.
(2)Division of Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, 
Damanhour University, 22514, Egypt.
(3)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, Tanta University, 31527, Egypt.

Alzheimer's disease (ad) is the most progressive form of neurodegenerative 
disease resulting in cognitive and non-cognitive deficits. Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) 
is an anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative stress supplement that can improve 
inflammation and oxidative stress associated with ad. This study aimed to 
explore the protective potential of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10). It also sought to 
uncover any synergistic effects when combined with donepezil, an 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, in treating Alzheimer's disease in rats, 
focusing on the modulation of the TLR-4/MAPK pathway and regulation of microRNA. 
The experiment involved seventy rats categorized into different groups: control, 
Reference group (donepezil 10 mg/kg/P.O.), CoQ10 alone (1,200 mg/kg/P.O.), 
ad-model (D-galactose (120 mg/kg/i.p) + Alcl3 (50 mg/kg/P.O.)), donepezil 
co-treatment, CoQ10 co-treatment, and CoQ10 + donepezil co-treatment. Behavioral 
parameter was defined using the Morris-Maze test (MMT) and various assessments, 
such as GABA, oxidative stress, Aβ1-42, ion homeostasis, toll-like receptor-4 
(TLR-4), mitogen-activated protein kinase-1 (MAPK-1), micro-RNA (mir-106b, 
mir-107, and mir-9) were measured. Immunohistological staining was used to 
assess structural abnormalities in hippocampus. CoQ10 treatment demonstrated 
memory improvement, enhanced locomotion, and increased neuronal differentiation, 
mainly through the activation of the TLR-4/MAPK pathway and regulation of 
mir-106b, mir-107, and mir-9.
HIGHLIGHTS: Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) improved the rats' passive avoidance memory 
impairment caused by D-gal and AlCl3. ad led to the alteration of the TLR-4/MAPK 
pathways.CoQ10 as a protective agent, diminishes oxidative burden, improve ion 
homeostasis.CoQ10 counteracts Alzheimer's disease by enhancing neurotransmitter 
parameter and regulating the MicroRNA.CoQ10 lowered accumulation of Aβ plaque in 
the hippocampal neurons of D-Gal and AlCl3-treated rats.One promising 
therapeutic method was the combination of donepezil and CoQ10 therapy.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/toxres/tfaf031
PMCID: PMC11881693
PMID: 40052020


11. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Feb 20;16:1461177. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1461177. 
eCollection 2025.

Ginseng and Polygonum multiflorum formula protects brain function in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Liu JJ(1), Wei F(1), Wang YD(1), Liu J(1), Xu BL(2)(3), Ma SC(4), Yang JB(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institutes for Food and Drug Control, Beijing, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Harbin University of Commerce, Harbin, China.
(3)Kangtai Medical Testing Services Hebei Co., Ltd., Langfang, Hebei, China.
(4)Chinese Pharmacopoeia Commission, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
with no effective treatment currently available. The Panax ginseng C.A.Mey. and 
Polygonum multiflorum Thunb. formula (GSPM) has shown potential neuroprotective 
effects, but its therapeutic efficacy and underlying mechanisms in AD remain 
unclear and require further investigation.
METHODS: In this study, senescence-accelerated mouse prone 8 (SAMP8) mice, an AD 
model, were treated with GSPM (low: 117 mg/kg, high: 234 mg/kg) or donepezil 
(1.3 mg/kg) via gavage for 2 months. Cognitive function was assessed using the 
Morris water maze. Hippocampal morphology was evaluated by H&E staining, and 
neuronal apoptosis was detected by TUNEL assay. Microgliosis and astrogliosis 
were analyzed by Iba1 and GFAP immunohistochemistry. Levels of phosphorylated 
Tau, Aβ1-42, Aβ1-40, inflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress markers, and 
senescence markers were measured. Gut microbiota composition was analyzed by 16S 
rRNA sequencing. In vitro, the effects of GSPM were evaluated in 
Aβ1-42-stimulated HT22 hippocampal neurons. Cell viability was assessed via 
CCK-8, and apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. The AMPK/Sirt1 pathway was 
investigated by Western blotting, and SIRT1-dependent effects were evaluated 
following EX527 treatment, a SIRT1 inhibitor.
RESULTS: GSPM treatment improved cognitive function, reduced hippocampal tissue 
damage, and decreased neuronal apoptosis in AD mice. It alleviated 
neuroinflammation by reducing microgliosis and astrogliosis and lowered the 
levels of p-Tau protein and Aβ accumulation in both the hippocampus and 
cerebrospinal fluid. Additionally, GSPM reversed the enhanced inflammation, 
oxidative stress, and neuronal senescence observed in AD mice. Furthermore, GSPM 
modulated gut microbiota composition by reducing microbial diversity and 
restoring the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio to levels similar to those in 
control mice. GSPM increased the abundance of Lactobacillus, which was 
negatively correlated with inflammation, Aβ1-42, p-Tau, and senescence markers. 
It also decreased the abundance of bacteria, such as Oscillibacter, 
Helicobacter, and Odoribacter, which are associated with inflammation, oxidative 
stress, and neuronal senescence. In line with in vivo findings, GSPM increased 
cell viability, reduced apoptosis, and alleviated oxidative stress in 
Aβ1-42-stimulated HT22 hippocampal neurons. It also decreased the production of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines and reduced expression of senescence markers in 
vitro. Furthermore, GSPM restored AMPK phosphorylation and Sirt1 expression in 
neurons. Notably, inhibition of Sirt1 by EX527 reversed the neuroprotective 
effects of GSPM.
CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrated that GSPM exhibits protective effects on AD 
via suppressing the inflammation, oxidation, and senescence, possibly through 
regulating the Sirt1 signaling. These findings provided a novel therapeutic 
approach for AD.

Copyright © 2025 Liu, Wei, Wang, Liu, Xu, Ma and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1461177
PMCID: PMC11882532
PMID: 40051562

Conflict of interest statement: Author B-LX was employed by Kangtai Medical 
Testing Services Hebei Co., Ltd. The remaining authors declare that the research 
was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that 
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


12. Chem Biodivers. 2025 Jul;22(7):e202402915. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202402915. Epub 
2025 Mar 23.

Novel 2-Alkoxy-3-Cyanopyridine Derivatives as Cholinesterase Inhibitors: 
Synthesis, Biological Evaluation, and In Silico Investigations.

Kadi I(1), Seyhan G(2), Zebbiche Z(3), Sari S(4), Barut B(2), Boumoud T(1), 
Mermer A(5)(6)(7), Boulebd H(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Synthesis of Molecules with Biological Interest, University of 
Frères Mentouri Constantine 1, Constantine, Algeria.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Karadeniz Technical 
University, Trabzon, Türkiye.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Exact Sciences, University of Frères 
Mentouri Constantine 1, Constantine, Algeria.
(4)Pharmaceutical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Hacettepe 
University, Ankara, Türkiye.
(5)Experimental Medicine Application & Research Center, University of Health 
Sciences, Istanbul, Türkiye.
(6)Department of Biotechnology, University of Health Sciences, Istanbul, 
Türkiye.
(7)Department of Pharmacy, University of Health Sciences, Istanbul, Türkiye.

Alzheimer's disease remains a major challenge in neuroscience and medicine. 
Cholinesterase inhibitors provide symptomatic relief but do not alter disease 
progression. While significant progress has been made in understanding its 
biology, there is an urgent need for effective therapies. In this study, a 
series of 2-alkoxy-3-cyanopyridine derivatives (1-7) were prepared and evaluated 
as inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE). 
Among the compounds, 3 and 4 were identified as good inhibitors of AChE and 
BuChE with relatively low IC50 values. 3 inhibited AChE with an IC50 of 
53.95 ± 4.29 µM, while 4 had a greater potency for BuChE with an IC50 of 
31.79 ± 0.38 µM. Kinetic studies revealed that 3 and 4 are competitive 
inhibitors with Ki values of 14.23 ± 0.42 and 19.80 ± 3.38 µM for AChE and 
BuChE, respectively. In silico investigations, including docking studies, DFT 
calculations, and ADME/drug-likeness properties, were carried out to understand 
the mode of interaction of 3 and 4 toward the AChE and BuChE enzymes, as well as 
to determine their molecular geometry, chemical reactivity, and pharmacokinetic 
properties. This study highlights the potential of 3-cyanopyridine derivatives 
in the treatment of AD and provides a solid foundation for further optimization 
and exploration of their therapeutic applications.

© 2025 Wiley‐VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202402915
PMID: 40051287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2025 May;91(5):1352-1360. doi: 10.1002/bcp.70021. Epub
2025  Mar 6.

Safety and effectiveness of the anti-amyloid monoclonal antibody (mAb) drug 
lecanemab for early Alzheimer's disease: The pharmacovigilance perspective.

Bobbins A(1)(2), Davies M(1)(2), Lynn E(1)(2), Roy D(1)(2), Yeomans A(1)(2), 
Shakir SAW(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Drug Safety Research Unit, Southampton, UK.
(2)School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences, University of Portsmouth, 
Portsmouth, UK.

The development of humanized IgG1 anti-amyloid monoclonal antibodies, such as 
lecanemab, provides a promising novel treatment pathway with potential 
disease-modifying effects for patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Lecanemab, which gained marketing approval by the United States Food and Drug 
Administration (US FDA) in July 2023, has since been approved in multiple 
countries, including the United Kingdom (UK). The decision by the UK's Medicines 
and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to approve lecanemab in August 
2024 followed similar regulatory decisions in the US and Japan. However, at the 
time of approval, the decision contrasted with that of the European Medicine 
Agency (EMA) in July 2024. Subsequently, the EMA recommended the marketing 
approval of lecanemab in November 2024 following a re-examination of further 
data submitted by the Marketing Authorisation Holder. The UK's National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has not recommended lecanemab 
for use in early AD amid concerns, including treatment cost and the translation 
of efficacy outcomes into clinically meaningful improvement. The risks of 
serious adverse events (SAEs), including amyloid-related imaging abnormalities 
(ARIA), have also emerged from clinical trial data with a concern for the 
potential for rare, life-threatening events. This narrative review discusses the 
requirement for a robust method of monitoring the safety and effectiveness of 
lecanemab in the real-world clinical setting considering recent regulatory 
decisions. Additionally, the need to evaluate proposed risk minimization 
measures (RMMs) is discussed considering the resource constraints of healthcare 
systems, such as those faced by the UK's National Health Service (NHS).

© 2025 The Author(s). British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1002/bcp.70021
PMCID: PMC12035590
PMID: 40051090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors disclose any conflict of 
interest directly relevant or directly related to this work.


14. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Mar 6;17(1):57. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01700-2.

TREM2 risk variants and associated endophenotypes in alzheimer's disease.

Dijkstra JIR(1)(2)(3)(4), Vermunt L(5)(6)(7), Venkatraghavan V(5)(6), Ozhegov 
G(8)(9), Coomans EM(5)(6), Ossenkoppele R(5)(6)(10)(11), van de Giessen E(10), 
Hulsman M(8)(5)(9), de Geus CM(12), van der Flier WM(5)(6)(13), Sikkes 
SAM(5)(14), Barkhof F(10)(15), Tijms B(5)(6)(7), Gouw AA(5)(6)(16), de Haan 
W(5)(6)(16), Vijverberg EGB(5)(6), Pijnenburg YAL(5)(6), Holstege H(8)(6), 
Teunissen CE(6)(7), van der Lee SJ(17)(18)(19).

Author information:
(1)Genomics of Neurodegenerative Diseases and Aging, Department of Human 
Genetics, Amsterdam UMC Location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.i.r.dijkstra@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Department of Neurology, Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC Location 
VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. j.i.r.dijkstra@amsterdamumc.nl.
(3)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.i.r.dijkstra@amsterdamumc.nl.
(4)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Amsterdam UMC Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.i.r.dijkstra@amsterdamumc.nl.
(5)Department of Neurology, Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC Location 
VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Amsterdam UMC Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Genomics of Neurodegenerative Diseases and Aging, Department of Human 
Genetics, Amsterdam UMC Location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(9)Delft Bioinformatics Lab, Delft University of Technology, Delft, The 
Netherlands.
(10)Department of Radiology & Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Netherlands.
(11)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Mälmo, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(12)Clinical Genetics, Department of Human Genetics, Amsterdam UMC, location 
VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(13)Department of Epidemiology & Data Science, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(14)Department of Clinical, Neuro- and Developmental Psychology, VU University, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(15)Queen Square Institute of Neurology and Centre for Medical Image Computing, 
University College London, London, UK.
(16)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology and MEG Center, Neuros, Amsterdam 
UMC, location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(17)Genomics of Neurodegenerative Diseases and Aging, Department of Human 
Genetics, Amsterdam UMC Location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
s.j.vanderlee@amsterdamumc.nl.
(18)Department of Neurology, Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC Location 
VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. s.j.vanderlee@amsterdamumc.nl.
(19)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
s.j.vanderlee@amsterdamumc.nl.

BACKGROUND: Rare variants of the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cell 2 
(TREM2) gene are strong risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD), and drugs 
targeting the TREM2 protein are being developed. However, it is unknown what the 
effect of TREM2 variants is on the AD phenotype.
METHODS: Here we studied a full range of clinical and biomarker measures in a 
large cohort of TREM2 variant carriers (n = 123, 7.8%, i.e., R62H n = 66, R47H 
n = 26, T96K n = 16, other TREM2 variants n = 17) compared to confirmed 
non-carriers (n = 1,459) with biomarker confirmed symptomatic AD from Amsterdam 
Dementia Cohort. Secondly, we explored whether specific TREM2 variants were 
associated with distinct clinical measures compared to the reference group, i.e. 
non-carriers, within the same cohort.
RESULTS: TREM2 variant carriers (64 ± 7 years, 54% female) did not show distinct 
clinical measures of AD at presentation compared to AD patients not carrying a 
TREM2 variant (64 ± 7 years, 52% female). We observed no differences in MMSE, 
neuropsychological domains (except less impaired visuospatial functioning in 
TREM2 carriers), MRI scores, CSF biomarkers, EEG, structural MRI (41 ROIs) and 
Tau-PET scans of four carriers (R62H, R47H, G58A, D87N). Carriers did show 
faster cognitive decline (MMSE points per year 0.6 ± 0.3, P fdr = 0.099) 
compared to non-carriers. Notably, both R47H and T96K carriers exhibited faster 
cognitive decline (P < 0.05), and R47H carriers even showed an increased rate of 
death after diagnosis (P = 0.034). In contrast to the shared cognitive decline, 
these variants showed different results for other measures at baseline.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that while carriers of TREM2 risk variants cannot 
be distinguished based on clinical presentation at baseline compared to 
non-carriers, they do exhibit a faster global cognitive decline. 
Variant-specific analyses indicate that especially R47H and T96K carriers drive 
this association. These results highlight the importance of considering 
variant-specific effects for understanding the role of TREM2 biology in AD. The 
rich phenotype information can inform clinical stage drug development.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01700-2
PMCID: PMC11883996
PMID: 40051009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study was approved by the Medical Ethical Committee of 
Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc. All patients provided written informed consent for 
their clinical data to be used for research purposes. Consent was obtained 
according to the Declaration of Helsinki. Competing interests: S.L. is part of 
the GeneMINDS consortium, which is powered by Health~Holland, Top Sector Life 
Sciences & Health and receives co-financing from Vigil Neuroscience, Prevail 
therapeutics and Brain Research Center. All funding is paid to his institution. 
L.V. is supported by grant funding/collaborative study and consultancy/speaker 
fees from ZonMw (VENI grant), Amsterdam UMC (Startergrant) Stichting Dioraphte 
(biobank DemenTree), Olink, Lilly, and Roche; all paid to her institution. 
Research programs of W.F. have been funded by ZonMW, NWO, EU-JPND, EU-IHI, 
Alzheimer Nederland, Hersenstichting CardioVascular Onderzoek Nederland, 
Health~Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health, stichting Dioraphte, 
Gieskes-Strijbis fonds, stichting Equilibrio, Edwin Bouw fonds, Pasman 
stichting, stichting Alzheimer & Neuropsychiatrie Foundation, Philips, Biogen MA 
Inc, Novartis-NL, Life-MI, AVID, Roche BV, Fujifilm, Eisai, Combinostics. W.F. 
holds the Pasman chair. W.F. is recipient of TAP-dementia (www.tap-dementia.nl), 
receiving funding from ZonMw (#10510032120003). TAP-dementia receives 
co-financing from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals and Amprion. All funding is paid to 
her institution. W.F. has been an invited speaker at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, 
Eisai, WebMD Neurology (Medscape), NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, European 
Brain Council. All funding is paid to her institution. W.F. is consultant to 
Oxford Health Policy Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA Inc, and Eisai. All funding is 
paid to her institution. W.F. participated in advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc, 
Roche, and Eli Lilly. W.F. is member of the steering committee of EVOKE/EVOKE+ 
(NovoNordisk). All funding is paid to her institution. W.F. is member of the 
steering committee of PAVE, and Think Brain Health. W.F. was associate editor of 
Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 2020/2021. W.F. is associate editor at Brain. 
R.O. has received research funding from European Research Council, ZonMw, NWO, 
National Institute of Health, Alzheimer Association, Alzheimer Nederland, 
Stichting Dioraphte, Cure Alzheimer’s fund, Health Holland, ERA PerMed, 
Alzheimerfonden, Hjarnfonden (all paid to the institutions). R.O. has received 
research support from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen Research & Development, 
Roche, Quanterix and Optina Diagnostics, and has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by GE Healthcare. He is an advisory board member for Asceneuron and 
Bristol Myers Squibb. All the aforementioned has been paid to the institutions. 
He is an editorial board member of Alzheimer’s Research & Therapy and the 
European Journal of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging. F.B. is Steering 
committee or Data Safety Monitoring Board member for Biogen, Merck, Eisai and 
Prothena. F.B. is advisory board member for Combinostics, Scottish Brain 
Sciences. F.B. is consultant for Roche, Celltrion, Rewind Therapeutics, Merck, 
Bracco. F.B. has research agreements with ADDI, Merck, Biogen, GE Healthcare, 
Roche. F.B. is co-founder and shareholder of Queen Square Analytics LTD.


15. J Transl Med. 2025 Mar 6;23(1):278. doi: 10.1186/s12967-025-06317-5.

Biomarker identification for Alzheimer's disease through integration of 
comprehensive Mendelian randomization and proteomics data.

Zhan H(1)(2), Cammann D(2)(3), Cummings JL(4), Dong X(5)(6), Chen J(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Program, University of Nevada, Las Vegas 
(UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(2)Nevada Institute of Personalized Medicine, University of Nevada, Las Vegas 
(UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(3)School of Life Science, University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV), Las Vegas, 
NV, USA.
(4)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine, University of Nevada, Las Vegas 
(UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(5)Stephen and Denise Adams Center for Parkinson's Disease Research, Yale School 
of Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology and Section of Biomedical Informatics and Data 
Science (BIDS), Yale School of Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(7)Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Program, University of Nevada, Las Vegas 
(UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA. jingchun.chen@unlv.edu.
(8)Nevada Institute of Personalized Medicine, University of Nevada, Las Vegas 
(UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA. jingchun.chen@unlv.edu.
(9)School of Life Science, University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV), Las Vegas, 
NV, USA. jingchun.chen@unlv.edu.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the main cause of dementia with few 
effective therapies. We aimed to identify potential plasma biomarkers or drug 
targets for AD by investigating the causal association between plasma proteins 
and AD by integrating comprehensive Mendelian randomization (MR) and multi-omics 
data.
METHODS: Using two-sample MR, cis protein quantitative trait loci (cis-pQTLs) 
for 1,916 plasma proteins were used as an exposure to infer their causal effect 
on AD liability in individuals of European ancestry, with two large-scale AD 
genome-wide association study (GWAS) datasets as the outcome for discovery and 
replication. Significant causal relationships were validated by sensitivity 
analyses, reverse MR analysis, and Bayesian colocalization analysis. 
Additionally, we investigated the causal associations at the transcriptional 
level with cis gene expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTLs) data across 
brain tissues and blood in European ancestry populations, as well as causal 
plasma proteins in African ancestry populations.
RESULTS: In those of European ancestry, the genetically predicted levels of five 
plasma proteins (BLNK, CD2AP, GRN, PILRA, and PILRB) were causally associated 
with AD. Among these five proteins, GRN was protective against AD, while the 
rest were risk factors. Consistent causal effects were found in the brain for 
cis-eQTLs of GRN, BLNK, and CD2AP, while the same was true for PILRA in the 
blood. None of the plasma proteins were significantly associated with AD in 
persons of African ancestry.
CONCLUSIONS: Comprehensive MR analyses with multi-omics data identified five 
plasma proteins that had causal effects on AD, highlighting potential biomarkers 
or drug targets for better diagnosis and treatment for AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-025-06317-5
PMCID: PMC11884171
PMID: 40050982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Disclosures: JLC has provided 
consultation to Acadia, Acumen, ALZpath, Annovis, Aprinoia, Artery, Biogen, 
Biohaven, BioXcel, Bristol-Myers Squib, Eisai, Fosun, GAP Foundation, Green 
Valley, Janssen, Karuna, Kinoxis, Lighthouse, Lilly, Lundbeck, LSP/eqt, Mangrove 
Therapeutics, Merck, MoCA Cognition, New Amsterdam, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, 
Otsuka, Oxford Brain Diagnostics, Praxis, Prothena, ReMYND, Roche, Scottish 
Brain Sciences, Signant Health, Simcere, Sinaptica, T-Neuro, TrueBinding, and 
Vaxxinity pharmaceutical, assessment, and investment companies. Ethical 
approval: This study only leveraged summary-level statistics without participant 
information. The ethics approval has been reported by the cited studies. 
Competing interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.


16. J Nanobiotechnology. 2025 Mar 6;23(1):181. doi: 10.1186/s12951-025-03263-8.

Cerium-doped Prussian blue biomimetic nanozyme as an amplified pyroptosis 
inhibitor mitigate Aβ oligomer-induced neurotoxicity in Alzheimer's disease.

Ma J(#)(1)(2)(3), Tian Y(#)(1)(2)(3), Du C(#)(1)(2)(3), Zhu Y(1)(2)(3), Huang 
W(1)(2)(3), Ding C(1)(2)(3), Wei P(1)(2)(3), Yi X(4), Lin Z(5)(6)(7), Fang 
W(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Neurosurgery Research Institute, The First 
Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350005, Fujian, China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, National Regional Medical Center, Binhai Campus 
of the First Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350212, 
Fujian, China.
(3)Fujian Provincial Institutes of Brain Disorders and Brain Sciences, The First 
Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350005, Fujian, China.
(4)Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Fujian Medical University 
Union Hospital, Fuzhou, 350001, Fujian, China. 531154173@qq.com.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Neurosurgery Research Institute, The First 
Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350005, Fujian, China. 
13799321745@139.com.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, National Regional Medical Center, Binhai Campus 
of the First Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350212, 
Fujian, China. 13799321745@139.com.
(7)Fujian Provincial Institutes of Brain Disorders and Brain Sciences, The First 
Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350005, Fujian, China. 
13799321745@139.com.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Neurosurgery Research Institute, The First 
Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350005, Fujian, China. 
fang.wenhua@qq.com.
(9)Department of Neurosurgery, National Regional Medical Center, Binhai Campus 
of the First Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350212, 
Fujian, China. fang.wenhua@qq.com.
(10)Fujian Provincial Institutes of Brain Disorders and Brain Sciences, The 
First Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350005, Fujian, 
China. fang.wenhua@qq.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Antioxidant enzyme therapy shows promise for treating Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
but significant challenges remain in achieving effective blood-brain barrier 
(BBB) penetration and sustained therapeutic effects. We developed a novel 
neutrophil membrane (NM)-coated cerium-doped Prussian blue biomimetic nanozyme 
(NM@PB-Ce) that demonstrates outstanding enzymatic properties and targeted 
therapeutic efficacy. Extensive physicochemical characterization using 
transmission electron microscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and dynamic 
light scattering confirmed the successful synthesis of uniform nanoparticles 
(~ 142 nm) with preserved membrane protein functionality. In vitro studies 
utilizing SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells revealed that NM@PB-Ce effectively 
scavenged reactive oxygen species through multiple enzyme-mimetic activities 
(catalase, superoxide dismutase, and peroxidase). The nanozyme significantly 
suppressed NLRP3 inflammasome activation and subsequent pyroptosis, reducing 
inflammatory markers (IL-1β, IL-18) while attenuating Aβ aggregation. Using a 
sophisticated co-culture BBB model and real-time in vivo fluorescence imaging, 
we demonstrated NM@PB-Ce's ability to traverse the BBB and accumulate 
specifically in AD-affected regions. In an Aβ1-42 oligomer-induced AD mouse 
model, systematic administration of NM@PB-Ce (320 μg/mL, 0.01 mL/g/day for 
14 days) significantly improved cognitive performance across multiple behavioral 
paradigms, including the Morris water maze, Y-maze, and open field tests. 
Molecular and histological analyses revealed decreased neuroinflammation markers 
(GFAP, Iba-1) in the hippocampus, reduced levels of NLRP3, caspase-1, and 
phosphorylated tau (demonstrated by Western blot and ELISA), and enhanced 
dendritic spine density (visualized through Golgi staining). This comprehensive 
study establishes NM@PB-Ce as a promising therapeutic platform for AD treatment, 
providing both mechanistic insights into its mode of action and robust evidence 
of its therapeutic efficacy in targeting neuroinflammation and cognitive 
decline.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12951-025-03263-8
PMCID: PMC11887122
PMID: 40050873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethic approval and consent to 
participate: This research follows the process in accordance with ethical 
standards promulgated by the ethics committee of Fujian Medical University, 
approved by the Ethics Committee of Fujian Medical University (approval number: 
1ACUC FJMU2022-0608). Competing interest: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


17. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2025 Mar 6;25(1):113. doi:
10.1186/s12911-025-02924-w.

Deep learning-based classification of dementia using image representation of 
subcortical signals.

Ranjan S(#)(1), Tripathi A(#)(1), Shende H(1), Badal R(2), Kumar A(3), Yadav 
P(2), Joshi D(3), Kumar L(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, 
New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of RS and BK, All India Institute of Ayurveda Delhi, New Delhi, 
India.
(3)Centre for Biomedical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New 
Delhi, India.
(4)Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, 
New Delhi, India. lkumar@ee.iitd.ac.in.
(5)Bharti School of Telecommunication and Yardi School of Artificial 
Intelligence, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New Delhi, India. 
lkumar@ee.iitd.ac.in.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Dementia is a neurological syndrome marked by cognitive decline. 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are the common forms 
of dementia, each with distinct progression patterns. Early and accurate 
diagnosis of dementia cases (AD and FTD) is crucial for effective medical care, 
as both conditions have similar early-symptoms. EEG, a non-invasive tool for 
recording brain activity, has shown potential in distinguishing AD from FTD and 
mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
METHODS: This study aims to develop a deep learning-based classification system 
for dementia by analyzing EEG derived scout time-series signals from deep brain 
regions, specifically the hippocampus, amygdala, and thalamus. Scout time series 
extracted via the standardized low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography 
(sLORETA) technique are utilized. The time series is converted to image 
representations using continuous wavelet transform (CWT) and fed as input to 
deep learning models. Two high-density EEG datasets are utilized to validate the 
efficacy of the proposed method: the online BrainLat dataset (128 channels, 
comprising 16 AD, 13 FTD, and 19 healthy controls (HC)) and the in-house 
IITD-AIIA dataset (64 channels, including subjects with 10 AD, 9 MCI, and 8 HC). 
Different classification strategies and classifier combinations have been 
utilized for the accurate mapping of classes in both data sets.
RESULTS: The best results were achieved using a product of probabilities from 
classifiers for left and right subcortical regions in conjunction with the 
DenseNet model architecture. It yield accuracies of 94.17 % and 77.72 % on the 
BrainLat and IITD-AIIA datasets, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The results highlight that the image representation-based deep 
learning approach has the potential to differentiate various stages of dementia. 
It pave the way for more accurate and early diagnosis, which is crucial for the 
effective treatment and management of debilitating conditions.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12911-025-02924-w
PMCID: PMC11887350
PMID: 40050853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee of All 
India Institute of Ayurveda, New Delhi, India (Ref No. 
IEC-331/27.06.2023/Rp(E)-12/2023, dated: 17/08/2023). Informed consent was 
obtained from all participants before the trial commenced. The ethical clearance 
complies with the Helsinki Declaration. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


18. BMC Geriatr. 2025 Mar 6;25(1):154. doi: 10.1186/s12877-025-05717-y.

Annual societal cost of Alzheimer's disease in Malaysia: a micro-costing 
approach.

Ong SC(1), Tay LX(2), Ong HM(3), Tiong IK(4), Ch'ng ASH(5), Parumasivam T(6).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Social and Administrative Pharmacy, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 
Pulau Pinang, 11800, Malaysia. siewchinong@usm.my.
(2)Discipline of Social and Administrative Pharmacy, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 
Pulau Pinang, 11800, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Mental Health, Hospital Pulau Pinang, Ministry 
of Health Malaysia, Georgetown, Pulau Pinang, 10990, Malaysia.
(4)Department of Geriatric, Pusat Jantung Sarawak, Ministry of Health Malaysia, 
Kota Samarahan, Sarawak, 94300, Malaysia.
(5)Department of Medicine, Seberang Jaya Hospital, Ministry of Health Malaysia, 
Seberang Perai, Penang, 13700, Malaysia.
(6)Discipline of Pharmaceutical Technology, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Pulau 
Pinang, 11800, Malaysia.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is expected to have a significant impact on 
resource use and economic consequences along with population aging. This study 
aims to investigate the annual economic burden of Alzheimer's disease along with 
underlying cost drivers.
METHODOLOGY: Patients with AD aged 65 and above accompanied with primary 
caregivers were recruited in 6 tertiary care hospitals. A structured interview 
was conducted to collect sociodemographic, clinical and resource use information 
using an adapted questionnaire. Direct medical cost, direct non-medical cost and 
indirect cost were annualised and categorised by severity level. Generalised 
linear models were applied to investigate predictors of costs.
RESULTS: Among 135 patient-caregiver dyads, the annual economic burden of AD 
from a societal perspective was USD 8618.83 ± USD 6740.79 per capita. The 
societal cost of severe AD patients (USD11943.19 ± USD6954.17) almost doubled 
those in mild AD (USD6281.10 ± USD6879.83). IDC was the primary cost driver 
(77.7%) which represented the impact of productivity loss due to informal care. 
Besides disease severity, time spent in informal care, caregivers' employment 
and use of special accommodation were predictors of AD cost. This 
neurodegenerative disorder is estimated to impose a burden of USD1.9 billion in 
2022, which represents 0.47% of Malaysia's GDP.
CONCLUSION: This study provided real-world empirical cost estimates of AD burden 
in Malaysia. Informal care is a significant contributor to the societal cost of 
AD. Optimal healthcare resource allocation is essential in the decision making 
of healthcare stakeholders to address rising demands.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-025-05717-y
PMCID: PMC11884180
PMID: 40050715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study has been designed adhering to WMA declaration of 
Helsinki (Association, 2014) and ethically approved by Medical Research Ethics 
Committee Malaysia (MREC) with NMRR-ID-21–02014-VCP (IIR) to gain access and 
collect patient and caregiver’s data from the hospitals. Written consent was 
obtained from caregivers before interview process. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


19. Nat Med. 2025 May;31(5):1604-1616. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03574-1. Epub 2025
 Mar 6.

Microglial mechanisms drive amyloid-β clearance in immunized patients with 
Alzheimer's disease.

van Olst L(1)(2), Simonton B(1)(2), Edwards AJ(1)(2), Forsyth AV(1)(2), Boles 
J(1)(2), Jamshidi P(3), Watson T(1)(2), Shepard N(2), Krainc T(2), Argue 
BM(1)(2), Zhang Z(1)(2), Kuruvilla J(1)(2), Camp L(1)(2), Li M(4), Xu H(4), 
Norman JL(5), Cahan J(1)(2), Vassar R(2)(6), Chen J(4)(7)(8), Castellani RJ(3), 
Nicoll JA(5)(9), Boche D(5), Gate D(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Abrams Research Center on Neurogenomics, Northwestern University Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)The Ken & Ruth Davee Department of Neurology, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Bioinformatics Institute, Agency for Science, Technology and Research, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(5)Clinical Neurosciences, School of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(6)Mesulam Center for Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease, Northwestern 
University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(7)Centre for Computational Biology and Program in Cancer and Stem Cell Biology, 
Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore, Singapore.
(8)Immunology Translational Research Program, Department of Microbiology and 
Immunology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(9)Department of Cellular Pathology, University Hospital Southampton National 
Health Service Trust, Southampton, UK.
(10)Abrams Research Center on Neurogenomics, Northwestern University Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. dgate@northwestern.edu.
(11)The Ken & Ruth Davee Department of Neurology, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. dgate@northwestern.edu.

Erratum in
    Nat Med. 2025 May;31(5):1712. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03664-0.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) therapies utilizing amyloid-β (Aβ) immunization have 
shown potential in clinical trials. Yet, the mechanisms driving Aβ clearance in 
the immunized AD brain remain unclear. Here, we use spatial transcriptomics to 
explore the effects of both active and passive Aβ immunization in the AD brain. 
We compare actively immunized patients with AD with nonimmunized patients with 
AD and neurologically healthy controls, identifying distinct microglial states 
associated with Aβ clearance. Using high-resolution spatial transcriptomics 
alongside single-cell RNA sequencing, we delve deeper into the transcriptional 
pathways involved in Aβ removal after lecanemab treatment. We uncover spatially 
distinct microglial responses that vary by brain region. Our analysis reveals 
upregulation of the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) and 
apolipoprotein E (APOE) in microglia across immunization approaches, which 
correlate positively with antibody responses and Aβ removal. Furthermore, we 
show that complement signaling in brain myeloid cells contributes to Aβ 
clearance after immunization. These findings provide new insights into the 
transcriptional mechanisms orchestrating Aβ removal and shed light on the role 
of microglia in immune-mediated Aβ clearance. Importantly, our work uncovers 
potential molecular targets that could enhance Aβ-targeted immunotherapies, 
offering new avenues for developing more effective therapeutic strategies to 
combat AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03574-1
PMCID: PMC12092304
PMID: 40050704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: J.A.R.N. has been a 
consultant/advisor relating to AD immunization programs for Elan 
Pharmaceuticals, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, Roche, Janssen, Pfizer, Biogen and 
Eisai. D.B. has been a consultant/advisor relating to AD immunization programs 
for Elan Pharmaceuticals and Biogen. D.G. has been a consultant/advisor relating 
to AD therapies for Merck and Novo Nordisk. They have no financial interest in 
relation to AD immunotherapy. The other authors declare no competing interests.


20. Sci Rep. 2025 Mar 7;15(1):7938. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-91689-3.

Carbon ion stimulation therapy reverses iron deposits and microglia driven 
neuroinflammation and induces cognitive improvement in an Alzheimer's disease 
mouse model.

Lee WS(#)(1), Kokubo T(#)(2), Choi Y(3), Hamano T(2), Zaboronok A(4), Ishikawa 
T(4), Kwon OD(5), Kim E(6), Kim JK(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Daegu Catholic University, Daegu, 42472, South 
Korea.
(2)HIMAC, QST, Chiba, Japan.
(3)Department of a Biomedical Engineering & Radiology, Daegu Catholic 
University, Daegu, 42472, South Korea.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Institute of Medicine, University of Tsukuba, 
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(5)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Daegu Catholic University, 
Daegu, 42472, South Korea.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, Daegu Catholic University, Daegu, 42472, South 
Korea. eh140149@cu.ac.kr.
(7)Department of a Biomedical Engineering & Radiology, Daegu Catholic 
University, Daegu, 42472, South Korea. jkkim@cu.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

Insoluble iron deposits often exist as iron oxide nanoparticles in protein 
aggregates, impaired ferritin, or activated microglia and have been implicated 
as major causes of neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease. However, no crucial 
evidence has been reported to support the therapeutic effects of current iron 
chelators on the deposition of various molecular forms of insoluble iron. We 
investigated the therapeutic effect of carbon ion stimulation (CIS) via a 
transmission beam on insoluble iron deposits, iron inclusion bodies, and the 
associated biological response in 5xFAD AD mouse brains. Compared with no 
treatment, CIS dose-dependently induced a 33-60% reduction in the amount of 
ferrous-containing iron species and associated inclusion bodies in the brains of 
AD mice. CIS induced considerable neuroinflammation downregulation and, 
conversely, anti-inflammatory upregulation, which was associated with improved 
memory and enhanced hippocampal neurogenesis. In conclusion, our results suggest 
that the effective degradation of insoluble iron deposits in combination with 
pathogenic inclusion bodies promotes AD-modifying properties and offers a 
potential CIS treatment option for AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-91689-3
PMCID: PMC11885615
PMID: 40050677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal protocols received approval from the Institutional 
Animal Care and Use Committee of the University of Tsukuba (protocols #210097 
and #21–193). Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


21. Mol Psychiatry. 2025 Jun;30(6):2783-2798. doi: 10.1038/s41380-025-02939-9.
Epub  2025 Mar 6.

Neuroinflammatory fluid biomarkers in patients with Alzheimer's disease: a 
systematic literature review.

Heneka MT(1), Gauthier S(2), Chandekar SA(3), Hviid Hahn-Pedersen J(3), Bentsen 
MA(3), Zetterberg H(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, Université du Luxembourg, Belvaux, 
Luxembourg. michael.heneka@uni.lu.
(2)AD and Related Disorders Research Unit, McGill Center for Studies in Aging, 
Departments of Neurology & Neurosurgery, Psychiatry, and Medicine at McGill, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Novo Nordisk A/S, Søborg, Denmark.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, University College London Institute 
of Neurology, Queen Square, London, UK.
(7)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London, UK.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: Neuroinflammation is associated with both early and late stages of 
the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Fluid biomarkers are gaining 
significance in clinical practice for diagnosis in presymptomatic stages, 
monitoring, and disease prognosis. This systematic literature review (SLR) aimed 
to identify fluid biomarkers for neuroinflammation related to clinical stages 
across the AD continuum and examined long-term outcomes associated with changes 
in biomarkers.
METHODS: The SLR was conducted per the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews 
of Interventions and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and 
Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. We used PubMed®, Embase®, and Cochrane 
Collaboration databases to search for articles in English (between 2012 and 
2022) on AD or mild cognitive impairment due to AD, using "neuroinflammation" or 
other "immune" search strings. Two independent reviewers screened titles and 
examined data from full-text articles for the SLR.
RESULTS: After the initial screening, 54 studies were prioritized for data 
extraction based upon their relevance to the SLR research questions. Nine 
studies for YKL-40, seven studies for sTREM2, and 11 studies for GFAP examined 
the relationship between the neuroinflammatory biomarkers and the clinical stage 
of the disease. Nine longitudinal studies further explored the association of 
fluid biomarkers with long-term clinical outcomes of disease. Cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) levels of YKL-40 were elevated in patients with AD dementia, while 
CSF sTREM2 levels were more strongly associated with preclinical and early 
symptomatic stages of AD. Plasma GFAP levels remained consistently elevated both 
in patients with AD dementia and individuals in preclinical stages with 
β-amyloid pathology. Longitudinal changes in plasma GFAP appeared to be 
predictive of cognitive decline in patients over time.
DISCUSSION: Neuroinflammatory biomarkers are associated with AD progression. 
More longitudinal studies in the preclinical and MCI stages of AD are needed to 
validate fluid biomarkers for diagnosis, disease monitoring, and prognosis in 
clinical practice.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41380-025-02939-9
PMCID: PMC12092255
PMID: 40050444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: MTH serves on scientific 
advisory boards for Alector, Dementia Discovery Fund, UK DRI, and T3D 
Therapeutics. He has received honoraria for consultations and/or oral 
presentations from AC Immune, Biogen, Eisai, Novo Nordisk, and Roche. SG has 
served on scientific advisory boards for ADvantage Therapeutics, Alzheon, 
AmyriAD, Biogen Canada, Eisai Canada, Enigma, Lilly Canada, Lundbeck, Medesis, 
Roche Canada, Sharon Francis Foundation, and TauRx. SAC, JHH-P, and MAB are 
full-time employees of Novo Nordisk A/S. HZ has served on scientific advisory 
boards and/or as a consultant for AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, Inc., AZTherapies, Inc., Cognition 
Therapeutics, Inc., Denali Therapeutics, Eisai, NervGen, Novo Nordisk, 
OptoCeutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, Inc., and 
Wave Life Sciences. He has given lectures in symposia sponsored by AlzeCure, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work). He is also a Wallenberg Scholar and 
a Distinguished Professor at the Swedish Research Council, supported by grants 
from the Swedish Research Council (#2023-00356; #2022-01018 and #2019-02397); 
the European Union’s Horizon Europe research and innovation programme under 
grant agreement No 101053962; Swedish State Support for Clinical Research 
(#ALFGBG-71320); the Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation (ADDF), USA 
(#201809-2016862); the AD Strategic Fund and the Alzheimer’s Association 
(#ADSF-21-831376-C, #ADSF-21-831381-C, #ADSF-21-831377-C, and 
#ADSF-24-1284328-C); the Bluefield Project; Cure Alzheimer’s Fund; the Olav Thon 
Foundation; the Erling-Persson Family Foundation; Stiftelsen för Gamla 
Tjänarinnor, Hjärnfonden, Sweden (#FO2022-0270); the European Union’s Horizon 
2020 research and innovation programme under the Marie Skłodowska-Curie grant 
agreement No 860197 (MIRIADE); and the European Union Joint Programme – 
Neurodegenerative Disease Research (JPND2021-00694), the National Institute for 
Health and Care Research University College London Hospitals Biomedical Research 
Centre, and the UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL (UKDRI-1003).


22. Int Psychogeriatr. 2025 Jun;37(3):100054. doi: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100054. 
Epub 2025 Mar 5.

Social health and prevention of dementia: Integration of human and mice studies.

Vernooij-Dassen M(1), van der Velpen IF(2), Lanooij SD(3), van der Zee EA(4), 
Ikram MA(5), Drinkenburg WHIM(6), Costanzo A(7), Vernooij MW(8), Eisel ULM(9), 
Melis R(10), Kas MJH(11), Perry M(12).

Author information:
(1)IQ Health Science Department Radboud University Medical Center, Kapittelweg 
54, Nijmegen 6525EP, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
myrra.vernooij-dassen@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus University Medical 
Center, Wytemaweg 80, Rotterdam 3015 CN, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
i.vandervelpen@erasmusmc.nl.
(3)Gelifes-Neurobiology, University of Groningen, Nijenborgh 
7, Groningen 9747AG, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
suzanne.lanooij@hotmail.com.
(4)Gelifes-Neurobiology, University of Groningen, Nijenborgh 
7, Groningen 9747AG, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
e.a.van.der.zee@rug.nl.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
Wytemaweg 80, Rotterdam 3015 CN, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
m.a.ikram@erasmusmc.nl.
(6)Gelifes-Neurobiology, University of Groningen, Nijenborgh 
7, Groningen 9747AG, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
w.h.i.m.drinkenburg@rug.nl.
(7)Gelifes-Neurobiology, University of Groningen, Nijenborgh 
7, Groningen 9747AG, the Netherlands. Electronic address: a.costanzo@rug.nl.
(8)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus University Medical 
Center, Wytemaweg 80, Rotterdam 3015 CN, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
m.vernooij@erasmusmc.nl.
(9)Gelifes-Neurobiology, University of Groningen, Nijenborgh 
7, Groningen 9747AG, the Netherlands. Electronic address: u.l.m.eisel@rug.nl.
(10)Department Geriatric Medicine, Radboud University Medical Center, Geert 
Grootteplein Zuid 22, Nijmegen 6525 GA, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
Rene.Melis@radboudumc.nl.
(11)Gelifes-Neurobiology, University of Groningen, Nijenborgh 
7, Groningen 9747AG, the Netherlands. Electronic address: m.j.h.kas@rug.nl.
(12)Department Geriatric Medicine, Radboud University Medical Center, Geert 
Grootteplein Zuid 22, Nijmegen 6525 GA, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
Marieke.Perry@radboudumc.nl.

OBJECTIVES: Prevention of dementia is considered a healthcare priority. We aimed 
to identify potentially modifiable risk factors and mechanisms within the social 
health domain to find novel avenues to prevent cognitive decline and dementia.
DESIGN: We integrated the results of eight sub-studies of the Social Health in 
Mice and Men (SHiMMy) project that were separately published in specialized 
journals, but not yet jointly considered. We followed the integrative 
methodology of Whittemore and Knafl, using the conceptual framework for social 
health to structure and integrate the results of human epidemiological and 
qualitative studies and experimental mice studies. This is a novel multi-method 
approach.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants of the population-based longitudinal cohort Rotterdam 
study were included in the epidemiolocal studies (ranging from N = 1259 to 
N = 3.720) and in the qualitative study (n = 17). Mice intervention studies were 
performed using a transgenic mouse model for Alzheimer's pathology and matched 
controls, under group and single housed conditions.
MEASUREMENTS: Epidemiological studies include social health markers (loneliness, 
perceived social support, marital status) and magnetic resonance imaging of the 
brain. The semi-structured qualitative study used an interview guide. The mice 
study assessed behavioral and histological markers.
RESULTS: In human and mice studies, we identified several similar potentially 
modifiable risk (e.g. marital status, social group size) and protective (e.g. 
perceived social support, behavioral responses) factors. This alignment of 
findings showing that social health may impact brain health lend further support 
to our social health hypothesis.
CONCLUSION: These results allow us to propose evidence-based social health 
targets for preventive interventions.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100054
PMID: 40050164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None declared.


23. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Mar;40(3):e70060. doi: 10.1002/gps.70060.

Brain Signatures of Very Early Cognitive Decline in Asymptomatic Middle-Aged 
Offspring of People With Alzheimer's Disease.

Ramsingh N(1), Lin HM(2), Ouyang Y(3), Ravona-Springer R(4)(5)(6), Livny 
A(4)(5)(7)(8), Soleimani L(1), Bendlin BB(9), Matatov A(4), Niv T(4), Shamir 
T(4), Ganmore I(4)(5)(10), Heymann A(5)(11)(12), Sano M(1)(13), Azuri J(11), 
Beeri MS(4)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology and Yale Center for Analytical Sciences, Yale 
University, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(3)Department of Population Health Science and Policy, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(4)The Joseph Sagol Neuroscience Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel HaShomer, 
Israel.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Sheba Medical Center, Tel HaShomer, Israel.
(7)Division of Diagnostic Imaging, Sheba Medical Center, Tel HaShomer, Israel.
(8)Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(9)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(10)Memory Clinic and Department of Neurology, Sheba Medical Center, Tel 
HaShomer, Israel.
(11)Maccabi Health Services, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(12)Meuhedat Healthcare, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(13)James J. Peters VA Medical Center, Bronx, New York, USA.
(14)Krieger Klein Alzheimer's Research Center, Brain Health Institute, Rutgers 
University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the relationship of subtle preclinical cognitive changes 
with white matter microstructure and cortical volume in middle-aged adults at 
high AD risk due to a parental history.
METHODS: Participants (n = 278) were AD patients' offspring from the Israel 
Registry for Alzheimer's Prevention study. Cognitively unimpaired-decliners 
(CU-D) were based on a linear regression model. In a subsample with MRI 
(n = 220), we examined relationships of CU-D with white matter (WM) 
microstructure (fractional anisotropy [FA] and mean diffusivity [MD]) and 
cortical volume in brain regions commonly affected in AD.
RESULTS: CU-D participants had lower FA in the superior longitudinal fasciculus 
(SLF) (p = < 0.001) and higher MD in the SLF (p = < 0.001), and cingulum 
adjacent to the corpus callosum (p = < 0.001) and genu (p = 0.006) compared to 
cognitively unimpaired-stable (CU-S) participants. The groups did not differ in 
cortical brain volumes.
CONCLUSIONS: CU-D participants had poorer WM microstructure in brain tracts 
affected early in AD. Early interventions can target individuals that fit the 
CU-D criteria.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.70060
PMID: 40050014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Exp Neurol. 2025 Jun;388:115205. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115205. Epub
2025  Mar 4.

TREM2 promotes hippocampal neurogenesis through regulating microglial M2 
polarization in APP/PS1 mice.

Peng XQ(1), Guo HS(1), Zhang X(1), Wu XY(1), Ruganzu JB(1), Wu SD(2), Zhao 
MT(3), Li L(3), Yang Y(4), Ji SF(1), Yang WN(5), Ren PY(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Histology and Embryology, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an 710061, 
China.
(2)Department of Neurology and Neuro-ophthalmology, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Northwest University (The First Hospital of Xi'an), Xi'an 710002, 
China; Xi'an Key Laboratory for Innovation and Translation of Neuroimmunological 
Diseases, Xi'an 710002, China.
(3)Department of Human Anatomy, Histology and Embryology, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an 710061, 
China; Zonglian College, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an 
710061, China.
(4)Department of Human Anatomy, Histology and Embryology, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an 710061, 
China; Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital 
of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710061, China.
(5)Department of Human Anatomy, Histology and Embryology, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an 710061, 
China. Electronic address: wn_yang@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.
(6)Institute of Medical Artificial Intelligence, The Second Affiliated Hospital 
of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710004, China; Department of Neurosurgery, 
The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710004, 
China. Electronic address: renpengyu.xjut@xjtu.edu.cn.

Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-2 (TREM2) mainly expressed on 
microglia in the brain, and its mutations can increase the risk of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Upregulation or activation of TREM2 has been found to ameliorate 
several pathological features of AD, such as the reduction of amyloid beta (Aβ) 
plaques and tau hyperphosphorylation. However, the effects of TREM2 on 
neurogenesis are little understood. Here, we aimed to investigate the effects of 
TREM2 on hippocampal neurogenesis associated with microglial M2 polarization in 
APP/PS1 mice. Lentivirus vectors were used to interfere with the expression of 
TREM2 on microglia in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice and BV2 cells. The 
supernatant was collected from BV2 cells as a conditioned medium (CM) to culture 
neural stem cells (NSCs) in vitro. Upregulation of TREM2 partially salvaged the 
proliferation of NSCs and the decrease of the number of immature/mature neurons 
in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice, which was accompanied by an improvement in 
cognitive ability. Furthermore, upregulation of TREM2 increased the M2 microglia 
marker CD206, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and anti-inflammatory 
factors, while decreased the M1 microglia markers CD16/32 and CD86 and 
pro-inflammatory factors in vivo and in vitro. Importantly, the upregulation of 
TREM2 also led to a significant increase in the phosphorylation of PI3K and Akt. 
In vitro, treatment with LY294002, a PI3K inhibitor, abolished the beneficial 
effects of TREM2 on shifting microglia from M1 to M2 and the proliferation and 
differentiation of NSCs. Taken together, these findings indicated that 
upregulation of TREM2 activated the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway to promote 
microglial M2 polarization and led to the secretion of more BDNF, accompanied by 
an improved hippocampal neurogenesis and spatial cognitive function in APP/PS1 
mice. Thus, TREM2 might be a promising target for the treatment of 
neurodegenerative disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115205
PMID: 40049315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.


25. Phys Life Rev. 2025 Jul;53:125-127. doi: 10.1016/j.plrev.2025.02.011. Epub
2025  Mar 4.

From multi-scale to non-local models: Comment on "Mathematical models on 
Alzheimer's disease and its treatment: A review" by M. Maji & S. Khajanchi.

Upadhyay RK(1), Pandey V(2), Parshad RD(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics & Computing, Indian Institute of Technology (ISM), 
Dhanbad, India. Electronic address: ranjit@iitism.ac.in.
(2)Department of Biomedical Data Science, Fujita Health University, Toyoake, 
470-1192, Japan.
(3)Department of Mathematics, Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plrev.2025.02.011
PMID: 40049006

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


26. Anesth Analg. 2025 Mar 6:10.1213/ANE.0000000000007448. doi: 
10.1213/ANE.0000000000007448. Online ahead of print.

The Preoperative Phases of the Perioperative Cognitive Anesthesia Network for 
Older Adults Electing Surgery: Results From an Observational Cohort.

Price CC(1)(2)(3), Burt JS(2)(3), Amini S(4), Arias F(2)(3), Mohamed B(1)(3)(4), 
Seubert CN(1)(3)(4), Garvan C(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Anesthesiology, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
Florida.
(2)Department of Clinical and Health Psychology, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida.
(3)Perioperative Cognitive Anesthesia Network (PeCAN) for Alzheimer's Disease 
and Related Dementias, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida; and.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida.

BACKGROUND: Individuals with neurodegenerative disorders are often provided the 
same perioperative care as unaffected peers, even though unidentified diminished 
preoperative "brain health" worsens surgical outcomes. We summarize the 
implementation and standardized data from a phased preoperative cognitive 
assessment consisting of screening tests administered by clinic staff and, on a 
failed screening, an immediate neuropsychological assessment from licensed 
neuropsychologists.
METHODS: The present observational study used deidentified patient data provided 
via an honest broker over 2 years. The data included patients aged 65 or older 
at the time of treatment who were triaged for an in-person preoperative clinic 
visit, excluding those patients who were scheduled for orthopedic surgery. The 
cognitive screening assessed education, frailty, clock-drawing-test to command 
and copy conditions, and 3-word registration and recall. The neuropsychological 
evaluation involved 90-minute assessments with interviews, cognitive testing, 
interpretation, and recommendations to the perioperative care team. Standardized 
data from general cognition, attention, and memory metrics are shown for this 
current report.
RESULTS: Of the 14,795 patients eligible for cognitive screening, 83.1% 
underwent screening, identifying 22.7% with atypical cognitive performance. 
Patients successfully screened were more often white (87.8% vs 78.4%; P < 
.0001), married (61.2% vs 57.9%; P < .0001), and less frail (nonfrail: 45.6% vs 
20.5%; P < .0001). Of the 2790 patients referred for the comprehensive 
assessment, 48.9% completed the neuropsychological evaluation. Referred patients 
were older (74.6 ± 6.5 vs 72.9 ± 5.7 yrs; P < .0001), less educated (13.2 ± 2.9 
vs 14.1 ± 2.9 yrs; P < .0001), less likely married (58.1% vs 62.8%; P < .0002), 
more frail (frail: 24.6% vs 16.5%; P < .0001), more likely to live in 
socioeconomically-deprived geographic regions (52.0% vs 47.7%; P < .0001), and 
had a 50% greater 1-year mortality than nonreferred patients (P < .0001). 
Patients who showed no impairment or had only memory impairment on the 
neuropsychological examination were less frail (nonfrail: 45.5% vs 30.6%; P < 
.0001) and only half as likely to have a canceled surgery than those who 
exhibited attention or combined attention and memory impairment (P = .0002).
CONCLUSIONS: Findings highlight how preoperative anesthesiology and 
neuropsychology teams can provide cognitive screening with referrals to brain 
health exams, and underscore the severity of unmet cognitive health care needs 
in older patients electing surgery.

Copyright © 2025 International Anesthesia Research Society.

DOI: 10.1213/ANE.0000000000007448
PMCID: PMC12315587
PMID: 40048382

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest, Funding: Please see 
DISCLOSURES at the end of this article.


27. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. 2025 Apr 1;328(4):H991-H1004. doi: 
10.1152/ajpheart.00833.2024. Epub 2025 Mar 6.

Regulatory roles of PIWI-interacting RNAs in cardiovascular disease.

Shivam P(1), Ball D(1), Cooley A(2), Osi I(2), Rayford KJ(1), Gonzalez SB(1), 
Edwards AD(1), McIntosh AR(1), Devaughn J(1), Pugh-Brown JP(1), Misra S(1), 
Kirabo A(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Ramesh A(8), Lindsey ML(1)(9), Sakwe AM(1), Gaye A(10), 
Hinton A Jr(1)(3), Martin PM(1), Nde PN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, School of Graduate Studies, Meharry 
Medical College, Nashville, Tennessee, United States.
(2)School of Medicine, Meharry Medical College, Nashville, Tennessee, United 
States.
(3)Department of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, Tennessee, United States.
(4)Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States.
(5)Vanderbilt Center for Immunobiology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, Tennessee, United States.
(6)Vanderbilt Institute for Infection, Immunology and Inflammation, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States.
(7)Vanderbilt Institute for Global Health, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, Tennessee, United States.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, Cancer Biology, Neuroscience & Pharmacology, 
Meharry Medical College, Nashville, Tennessee, United States.
(9)Research Service, Nashville VA Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United 
States.
(10)Department of Integrative Genomics and Epidemiology, School of Graduate 
Studies, Meharry Medical College, Nashville, Tennessee, United States.

Cardiovascular disease remains the number one cause of death worldwide. Across 
the spectrum of cardiovascular pathologies, all are accompanied by changes in 
gene expression profiles spanning a variety of cellular components of the 
myocardium. Alterations in gene expression are regulated by small noncoding RNAs 
(sncRNAs), with P-element-induced WImpy testis (PIWI)-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) 
being the most abundant of the sncRNAs in the human genome. Composed of 21-35 
nucleotides in length with a protective methyl group at the 3' end, piRNAs 
complex with highly conserved RNA-binding proteins termed PIWI proteins to 
recruit enzymes used for histone, DNA, RNA, and protein modifications. Thus, 
specific piRNA expression patterns can be exploited for early clinical diagnosis 
of cardiovascular disease and the development of novel RNA therapeutics that may 
improve cardiac health outcomes. This review summarizes the latest progress made 
on understanding how piRNAs regulate cardiovascular health and disease 
progression, including a discussion of their potential in the development of 
biomarkers and therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.00833.2024
PMCID: PMC12122055
PMID: 40048207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES Merry L. Lindsey is editor of 
American Journal of Physiology-Heart and Circulatory Physiology and was not 
involved and did not have access to information regarding the peer-review 
process or final disposition of this article. An alternate editor oversaw the 
peer-review and decision-making process for this article. The authors have no 
other conflicts of interest to disclose.


28. J Neurol. 2025 Mar 6;272(3):254. doi: 10.1007/s00415-025-12966-9.

Tau levels in platelets isolated from Huntington's disease patients serve as a 
biomarker of disease severity.

Alpaugh M(1), Lantero-Rodriguez J(2)(3), Benedet AL(2)(4), Manseau U(5), Boutin 
M(6), Maiuri M(7), Denis HL(6), Masnata M(6), Fazal SV(8), Chouinard S(9), 
Rosa-Neto P(4)(10)(11), Barker RA(8), Blennow K(2)(3), Zetterberg 
H(2)(3)(12)(13)(14)(15), Labib R(5), Cicchetti F(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, 
Canada. alpaughm@uoguelph.ca.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Department of Psychiatry and 
Neurochemistry, The Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(3)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill University Research Centre for 
Studies in Aging, Douglas Research Institute, Le Centre Intégré Universitaire de 
Santé et de Services Sociaux (CIUSSS) de l'Ouest-de-L'Île-de-Montréal, Montreal, 
Canada.
(5)Department of Mathematical and Industrial Engineering, Polytechnique 
Montreal, Montreal, Canada.
(6)Département de Psychiatrie & Neurosciences, Faculté de Médecine, Université 
Laval, Quebec, Canada.
(7)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, 
Canada.
(8)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, John Van Geest Centre for Brain Repair, 
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(9)Department of Movement Disorders, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Montréal-Hôtel Dieu, CHUM, Montréal, Canada.
(10)Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal, Canada.
(11)Peter O'Donnell Jr. Brain Institute (OBI), University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Centre (UTSW), Dallas, USA.
(12)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(13)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(14)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
USA.
(16)Département de Psychiatrie & Neurosciences, Faculté de Médecine, Université 
Laval, Quebec, Canada. francesca.cicchetti@crchudequebec.ulaval.ca.
(17)Centre de Recherche du CHU de Québec - Université Laval, Axe Neurosciences, 
Québec, Canada. francesca.cicchetti@crchudequebec.ulaval.ca.

Tau is a microtubule protein that is known to be hyperphosphorylated and to 
aggregate in several chronic neurodegenerative disorders. In many cases, in 
particular in Alzheimer's disease, the degree of tau pathology has been 
demonstrated to correlate with cognitive deficits and/or decline. In 
Huntington's disease (HD), a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorder, 
both cognitive impairments and abnormal tau expression have been reported to 
occur, along with the accumulation of the mutant huntingtin protein. In this 
respect, tau has been shown to be present in the cerebrospinal fluid of 
individuals with HD and to increase with disease progression. However, how this 
relates to changes in tau found in the periphery is largely unknown. In this 
study, we collected blood samples from patients with HD and isolated multiple 
blood components including plasma, platelets, and peripheral blood mononuclear 
cells to measure their tau levels and subsequently correlate these to cognitive 
impairments and disease stage. Our results suggest that the amount of tau, 
particularly N-terminal tau (NTA-tau) and total tau (t-tau), is elevated in all 
assayed blood components and that the quantity of tau within platelets, 
specifically, is strongly correlated with disease severity.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-025-12966-9
PMCID: PMC11885373
PMID: 40047995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: KB has 
served as a consultant and at advisory boards for Acumen, ALZPath, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Eisai, Julius Clinical, Lilly, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche 
Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees 
for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational 
materials and participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, 
Celdara Medical, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper. The other authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest. HZ has served at scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, 
Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). FC is a 
co-founder of Synucure Therapeutics and a consultant for Axoltis and HD immune 
Vienna. RAB is on the editorial board of the Journal of Neurology.


29. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 Mar 6;40(3):136. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01560-7.

Astaxanthin nanoemulsion improves cognitive function and synaptic integrity in 
Streptozotocin-induced Alzheimer's disease model.

Chik MW(1), Meor Mohd Affandi MMR(2), Mohd Nor Hazalin NA(1)(3), Surindar Singh 
GK(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Life Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti 
Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Selangor Branch, Puncak Alam Campus, Puncak Alam, 42300, 
Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti 
Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Puncak Alam Campus, Puncak Alam, 42300, Selangor, 
Malaysia.
(3)Integrative Pharmacogenomics Institute (iPROMiSE), Level 7, FF3, Universiti 
Teknologi MARA, Selangor Branch, Puncak Alam Campus, Bandar Puncak Alam, 
Selangor, 42300, Malaysia.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Life Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti 
Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Selangor Branch, Puncak Alam Campus, Puncak Alam, 42300, 
Selangor, Malaysia. gurmeet9952@uitm.edu.my.
(5)Brain Degeneration and Therapeutics Group, Pharmaceutical and Life Sciences 
Community of Research, Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Shah Alam, Selangor, 
40450, Malaysia. gurmeet9952@uitm.edu.my.

Astaxanthin derived from natural sources has excellent antioxidant and 
anti-inflammatory effects, and it is currently being widely researched as a 
neuroprotectant. However, astaxanthin possesses low oral bioavailability, and 
thus, astaxanthin extract from Haematococcus pluvialis was formulated into a 
nanoemulsion to improve its bioavailability and administered to Alzheimer's 
disease (AD)-like rats to study its possible neuroprotective benefits. 
Astaxanthin nanoemulsion was administered orally once a day for 28 days to 
streptozotocin (STZ)-induced AD rats at concentrations of 160, 320, and 
640 mg/kg of body weight (bw) and subsequently assessed for cognitive function 
using behavioral assessments. Brain samples were collected for the assessment of 
AD biomarkers. Astaxanthin nanoemulsion at a dosage of 640 mg/kg bw 
significantly improved spatial learning, spatial memory, and recognition memory 
against STZ-AD rats. At 320 and 640 mg/kg bw, astaxanthin nanoemulsion 
significantly reduced levels of hippocampus synaptosomal amyloid beta and 
paired-helical fibrillary tau protein while increasing neuron survival. 
Additionally, astaxanthin nanoemulsion at 640 mg/kg bw significantly increased 
acetylcholine levels in the hippocampus and cerebellum. Astaxanthin nanoemulsion 
at all treatment dosages significantly reduced malondialdehyde, a lipid 
peroxidation product, and neuroinflammatory mediators (GFAP and TNF-α). 
Astaxanthin nanoemulsion supplementation has the potential to improve cognitive 
function and synaptic function by lowering amyloid beta and tau levels, as well 
as preserve neuron integrity by reducing neuroinflammation and lipid 
peroxidation, indicating that it may be able to treat some of the underlying 
causes of AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01560-7
PMID: 40047916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval: Experimental protocols in the 
study were reviewed and approved by the Committee on Animal Research and Ethics 
of the Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM CARE: 288/2019).


30. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2025;125(2):7-12. doi: 
10.17116/jnevro20251250217.

[Neurobiological potential of astragaloside IV and prospects for its use in the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Berezutsky MA(1), Durnova NA(1)(2), Kurchatova MN(1), Matvienko UA(1).

Author information:
(1)V.I. Razumovsky Saratov State Medical University, Saratov, Russia.
(2)I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University (Sechenov University), 
Moscow, Russia.

The review presents an analysis of experimental data on the study of the 
neurobiological effects of astragaloside IV, which can be used in the treatment 
of Alzheimer's disease. Astragaloside IV is a cycloartan triterpene saponin, 
which is found in the roots of membranous milk vetch (Astragalus membranaceus 
(Fisch. ex Link) Bunge) and has a very wide range of pharmacological activity. 
In recent years, this compound has attracted attention due to its diverse 
neurobiological effects. Studies have shown the ability of astragaloside IV to 
modulate microglial activity. The protective effect of this saponin on neurons 
from the effects of glutamate-induced neurotoxicity has been demonstrated. In 
PC12 cells, astragaloside IV is shown to be able to resolve various types of 
mitochondrial dysfunction and inhibit endoplasmic reticulum stress. This 
compound is also a PPARγ agonist. In vivo experiments have shown that the test 
substance effectively protects synapses as well as improves cognitive functions, 
including memory and learning. It is concluded that astragaloside IV, 
apparently, may be used in the future as a multi-purpose complex therapy for 
Alzheimer's disease.

Publisher: В обзоре представлен анализ экспериментальных данных по исследованию 
нейробиологических эффектов астрагалозида IV, которые могут найти применение в 
терапии болезни Альцгеймера. Астрагалозид IV — циклоартановый тритерпеновый 
сапонин, который содержится в корнях астрагала перепончатого (Astragalus 
membranaceus (Fisch. ex Link) Bunge) и характеризуется очень широким спектром 
фармакологической активности. В последние годы это соединение привлекает 
внимание из-за выявления у него разнообразных нейробиологических эффектов. 
Исследования показали способность астрагалозида IV молулировать активность 
микроглии. Установлено протективное действие данного сапонина на нейроны от 
воздействия глутамат-индуцированной нейротоксичности. На клетках PC12 показано, 
что астрагалозид IV способен устранять различные формы митохондриальной 
дисфункции и ингибировать стресс эндоплазматического ретикулума. Выявлено, что 
данное соединение является агонистом PPARγ. В экспериментах in vivo показано, 
что исследуемое вещество эффективно защищает синапсы, а также улучшает 
когнитивные функции, включая память и обучение. Делается вывод, что астрагалозид 
IV, по-видимому, может найти применение в будущем в качестве многоцелевого 
средства комплексной терапии болезни Альцгеймера.

DOI: 10.17116/jnevro20251250217
PMID: 40047827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70030. doi: 10.1002/alz.70030.

Genetic and pharmacologic enhancement of SUMO2 conjugation prevents and reverses 
cognitive impairment and synaptotoxicity in a preclinical model of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Fioriti L(1)(2), Wijesekara N(3), Argyrousi EK(2), Matsuzaki S(4)(5)(6), 
Takamura H(3)(6), Satoh K(3), Han K(3), Yamauchi H(5), Staniszewski A(2), 
Acquarone E(2), Orsini F(1), Martucci A(1), Katayama T(6), Arancio O(2)(7), 
Fraser PE(3)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, 
IRCCS, Milano, MI, Italy.
(2)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Taub Institute for Research on 
Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, Columbia University, New York, New 
York, USA.
(3)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Radiological Sciences, Faculty of Medical Science Technology, 
Morinomiya University of Medical Sciences, Suminoe Ward, Osaka, Japan.
(5)MINCL, Morinomiya University of Medical Sciences, Suminoe Ward, Osaka, Japan.
(6)Department of Child Development & Molecular Brain Science, United Graduate 
School of Child Development, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka, Japan.
(7)Department of Medicine, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(8)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Erratum in
    Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Aug;21(8):e70606. doi: 10.1002/alz.70606.

INTRODUCTION: Amyloid beta oligomers (Aβos) are toxic to synapses and key to the 
progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and amyloid pathology, representing a 
target for therapeutic strategies.
METHODS: Amyloid and small ubiquitin modifier 2 (SUMO2) transgenics were 
analyzed by electrophysiology and behavioral testing. A recombinant analogue of 
SUMO2, SBT02, was generated and assessed for brain penetration and the ability 
to mitigate amyloid pathology.
RESULTS: Elevated SUMO2 expression prevents cognitive and synaptic impairment in 
a mouse model of AD amyloid pathology. Systemic administration of SBT02 resulted 
in high brain bioavailability and prophylactically halted the progression of 
AD-associated deficits. SBT02 also restored cognition and synaptic function in 
late-stage amyloid load. Mechanistically, SUMO2 and SBT02 do not alter amyloid 
processing or clearance and mitigate synaptotoxicity in the presence of high 
amyloid loads.
DISCUSSION: SBT02 is a promising therapeutic strategy to counteract and reverse 
the toxic effects of Aβos in AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Genetic overexpression of human SUMO2 prevents the long-term 
potentiation (LTP) impairments and cognitive deficits in amyloid precursor 
protein (APP) transgenics without affecting amyloid pathology. A recombinant 
analogue of human SUMO2, termed SBT02, when administered systemically, displays 
high brain bioavailability and has no adverse effects at high doses. 
Prophylactic treatment of APP transgenics with SBT02 prior to the development of 
amyloid pathology results in the prevention of synaptic and behavioral 
dysfunction. SBT02 also reverses pre-existing LTP and cognitive impairments when 
administered to APP transgenics with advanced and severe pathology. SBT02 has no 
impact on amyloid pathology, indicating a mechanism of action on synaptic 
resistance to Aβ toxicity.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70030
PMCID: PMC11883658
PMID: 40047257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: L.F., O.A., and P.E.F. are co‐inventors on a 
patent application for the use of SUMO2 mimetic peptides in Alzheimer's disease. 
N.W., E.K.A., S.M., H.T., K.S., K.H., H.Y., A.S., E.A., F.O., A.M., and T.K. 
have nothing to disclose. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting 
Information.


32. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2025 Mar;31(3):e70300. doi: 10.1111/cns.70300.

DNLA Delayed the Appearance of Learning and Memory Impairment of APP/PS1 Mice: 
Involvement of mTOR/TFEB/v-ATPase Signaling Pathway.

Wu Y(1), Liu X(1), Luo G(1), Li Q(1), Guo B(1), Li L(1), Nie J(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Basic Pharmacology of Ministry of Education, Zunyi Medical 
University, Zunyi, China.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative 
disorder with cognitive impairment that currently is incurable. There is 
existing evidence to suggest that vacuolar adenosine triphosphatase (v-ATPase) 
is one of the early key driving factors in the pathological process of AD. Thus, 
early intervention of v-ATPase may be a viable strategy.
AIMS: Observing whether early intervention with DNLA can delay learning and 
memory impairment in mice, and further exploring the mechanism of DNLA delaying 
AD in vitro based on v-ATPase.
METHODS: Four-month-old APP/PS1 transgenic mice were treated with alkaloids from 
Dendrobium nobile Lindl (DNLA) 20 and 40 mg/kg/day for 5 months. The Morris 
water maze test and nest test showed that DNLA administration significantly 
delayed the appearance of cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 mice. We further 
investigated the mechanism of DNLA promoting lysosome acidification in vitro by 
using PC12 cells.
RESULTS: We found that DNLA increases the degradation of β-amyloid (Aβ) 
contained in the autophagic lysosomes and alleviates the aging of neurons by 
promoting lysosome acidification and improving autophagy flow. In PC12 cells, 
DDB could promote the separation of mTOR and lysosome, promote the nuclear 
translocation of transcription factor EB (TFEB), and then promote lysosome 
biogenesis and lysosome acidification by targeting ATP6V1A.
CONCLUSION: These results unraveled that preventive administration of DNLA may 
delay the impairment of learning and memory in APP/PS1 mice. The molecular 
mechanism may be related to promoting the mTOR-TFEB-v-ATPase pathway.

© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.70300
PMCID: PMC11883424
PMID: 40047153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


33. Cell Biol Int. 2025 Jun;49(6):659-673. doi: 10.1002/cbin.70013. Epub 2025 Mar
6.

A Proteomics Profiling Reveals the Neuroprotective Effects of Melatonin on 
Exogenous β-amyloid-42 Induced Mitochondrial Impairment, Intracellular β-amyloid 
Accumulation and Tau Hyperphosphorylation in Human SH-SY5Y Cells.

Panmanee J(1), Phanchana M(2), Pearngam P(3), Petchyam N(4), Promthep K(1), 
Wisomka P(1), Kutpruek S(5), Pannengpetch S(6), Prasertporn T(1), Mukda S(1), 
Govitrapong P(5), Nopparat C(7).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Neuroscience, Institute of Molecular Biosciences, Mahidol 
University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
(2)Department of Molecular Tropical Medicine and Genetics, Faculty of Tropical 
Medicine, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Biological Sciences Program, Mahidol University International College, 
Mahidol University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
(4)Center for Advanced Therapeutics, Institute of Molecular Biosciences, Mahidol 
University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
(5)Chulabhorn Graduate Institute, Chulabhorn Royal Academy, Laksi, Bangkok, 
Thailand.
(6)Center for Research and Innovation, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol 
University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
(7)Innovative Learning Center, Srinakharinwirot University, Bangkok, Thailand.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is prevalent in the elderly population and 
characterized by the intracellular accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles 
(NFTs), composed of tau proteins, and extracellular deposition of beta-amyloid 
protein (Aβ). The present study aimed to investigate the neuroprotective effects 
of melatonin on Aβ42-induced AD-like pathology in SH-SY5Y cell lines. To assess 
the effects of melatonin on Aβ42-exposed cells, we performed a proteomics 
analysis of altered protein expression in Aβ42-treated cells, with or without 
melatonin Pretreatment, using label-free nano-LC-MS/MS. Experimental validations 
of pathways related to the neuroprotective effects of melatonin were carried out 
using Milliplex amyloid beta and tau magnetic bead assays, Western blot 
analysis, and measurements of mitochondrial membrane potential and ROS levels. 
Our results show that Aβ42 exposure led to an increase in an accumulation of 
intracellular Aβ42/40 and phosphorylated tau (Thr181)/Tau ratios. Pretreatment 
with melatonin effectively reduced the levels of these pathogenic proteins. 
Proteomics analysis has revealed protein markers associated with the Alzheimer's 
disease pathway, neuronal synapses, cellular apoptosis, and mitochondrial 
functions. Changes in proteins regulating the mitochondrial permeability 
transition pore, the electron transport chain, and mitochondrial oxidative 
stress were observed in Aβ42-treated cells. Pretreatment with melatonin 
protected the cells against Aβ42-induced cellular damages by regulating the 
expression of several proteins underpinning these biological processes, 
including the suppression of mitochondrial ROS generation and mitigation of 
mitochondrial membrane depolarization.

© 2025 The Author(s). Cell Biology International published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of International Federation of Cell Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/cbin.70013
PMCID: PMC12070025
PMID: 40047119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


34. J Insur Med. 2025 Jul 1;52(1):14-20. doi: 10.17849/insm-52-1-14-20.1.

Sweet Solutions: Unlocking the Diabetes-Dementia Connection for Better Outcomes.

Posan E.

Type 2 diabetes and Alzheimer's dementia represent important health challenges 
in our society today. Understanding the relationship between these conditions is 
crucial. This article explores the research on whether they share common risk 
factors or if they may influence each other's development, which could lead to 
more effective prevention and treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2025 Journal of Insurance Medicine.

DOI: 10.17849/insm-52-1-14-20.1
PMID: 40047116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Feb 19;17:1531628. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1531628.  eCollection 2025.

Adolescent binge alcohol exposure accelerates Alzheimer's disease-associated 
basal forebrain neuropathology through proinflammatory HMGB1 signaling.

Fisher RP(1), Matheny L(1), Ankeny S(1), Qin L(1), Coleman LG Jr(1)(2), Vetreno 
RP(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Bowles Center for Alcohol Studies, School of Medicine, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.

Human studies suggest that heavy alcohol use may be an etiological factor 
contributing to the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology. Both 
alcohol use disorder (AUD) and AD share common underlying neuropathology, 
including proinflammatory high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1)-mediated neuroimmune 
signaling and basal forebrain cholinergic neuron degeneration. Adolescent onset 
of binge drinking represents a significant risk factor for later development of 
an AUD, and accumulating evidence suggests that adolescent initiation of heavy 
alcohol use induces HMGB1 signaling and causes degeneration of the basal 
forebrain cholinergic system that persists into adulthood. However, it is 
unknown whether adolescent binge drinking confers increased risk for later 
development of AD-associated neuropathology through persistent induction of 
proinflammatory HMGB1 neuroimmune signaling. To investigate this question, we 
first (Experiment 1) assessed AD-associated neuropathology in the post-mortem 
human basal forebrain of individuals with AUD and an adolescent age of drinking 
onset relative to age-matched moderate drinking controls (CONs). In Experiment 
2, we treated non-transgenic and 5xFAD male and female mice, which overexpress 
both mutant human APP and PS1, with adolescent intermittent ethanol (AIE; 5.0 
g/kg, i.g. 2-days on/2-days off; postnatal day [P]30 - P55), and assessed 
AD-associated neuropathology in the adult (P100) basal forebrain. In Experiment 
3, 5xFAD female mice received AIE treatment followed by glycyrrhizic acid (150 
mg/L), an HMGB1 inhibitor, in drinking water from P56 to P100, and basal 
forebrain tissue was collected on P100 for assessment of AD-associated 
neuropathology. In the post-mortem human AUD basal forebrain (Experiment 1), we 
report upregulation of Hmgb1 and the HMGB1 receptors Rage and Tlr4 as well as 
microglial activation and increased intraneuronal Aβ1-42 accumulation in 
association with reduced cholinergic neuron marker expression (ChAT). In the 
5xFAD mouse model (Experiment 2), AIE accelerated AD-associated induction of 
Hmgb1 proinflammatory neuroimmune genes, microglial activation, and reductions 
of ChAT+ basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the adult female, but not male, 
basal forebrain. In Experiment 3, post-AIE treatment with glycyrrhizic acid 
rescued the AIE-induced acceleration of AD-associated increases in 
proinflammatory HMGB1 neuroimmune signaling, microglial activation, and 
persistent reductions of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in adult 5xFAD 
female mice. Together, these findings suggest that adolescent binge ethanol 
exposure may represent an underappreciated etiological factor contributing to 
onset of AD-associated neuropathology in adulthood through HMGB1- mediated 
neuroimmune signaling.

Copyright © 2025 Fisher, Matheny, Ankeny, Qin, Coleman and Vetreno.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1531628
PMCID: PMC11880232
PMID: 40046779

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


36. J Med Biol Eng. 2025;45(1):63-83. doi: 10.1007/s40846-024-00918-z. Epub 2024
Dec  24.

Machine Learning Approaches for Predicting Progression to Alzheimer's Disease in 
Patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment.

Gelir F(1), Akan T(1), Alp S(2), Gecili E(3)(4), Bhuiyan MS(5)(6), Disbrow 
EA(7)(8)(9)(10), Conrad SA(1)(11), Vanchiere JA(11), Kevil CG(5)(6); Alzheimer’s 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI); Bhuiyan MAN(1)(5)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center at 
Shreveport, PO Box 33932, Shreveport, LA 71103-4228 USA.
(2)Department of Artificial Intelligence Engineering, Trabzon University, 
Trabzon, 61335 Turkey.
(3)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH USA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Translational Pathobiology, Louisiana State 
University Health Sciences Center at Shreveport, Shreveport, LA 71103 USA.
(6)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center at Shreveport, Shreveport, LA 71103 USA.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center 
at Shreveport, Toxicology & Neuroscience, Shreveport, LA 71103 USA.
(8)Center for Brain Health, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center at 
Shreveport, Shreveport, LA 71103 USA.
(9)Department of Neurology, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center at 
Shreveport, Shreveport, LA 71103 USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center 
at Shreveport, Shreveport, LA 71103 USA.
(11)Department of Pediatrics, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center 
at Shreveport, Shreveport, LA 71103 USA.

PURPOSE: Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative disorder, is a condition 
that impairs cognition, memory, and behavior. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a 
transitional stage before AD, urgently needs the development of prediction 
models for conversion from MCI to AD.
METHOD: This study used machine learning methods to predict whether MCI subjects 
would develop AD, highlighting the importance of biomarkers (biological 
indicators from neuroimaging, such as MRI and PET scans, and molecular assays 
from cerebrospinal fluid or blood) and non-biomarker features in AD research and 
clinical practice. These indicators aid in early diagnosis, disease monitoring, 
and the development of potential treatments for MCI subjects. Using baseline 
data, which includes measurements of different biomarkers, we predicted disease 
progression at the patient's last visit. The Shapley value explanation (SHAP) 
technique was used to identify key features for predicting patient progression.
RESULTS: The study used the ADNI database to evaluate the effectiveness of eight 
classification methods for predicting progression from MCI to AD. Four 
fundamental data sampling approaches were compared to balance the dataset and 
reduce overfitting. The SHAP technique improved the ability to identify 
biomarkers and non-biomarker features, enhancing the prediction of disease 
progression. NEAR-MISS was found to be the most advantageous sampling method, 
while XGBoost was found to be the superior classification method, offering 
enhanced accuracy and predictive power.
CONCLUSION: The proposed SHAP for feature selection combined with XGBoost may 
provide improved predictive accuracy in diagnosing Alzheimer's patients.

© The Author(s) 2024.

DOI: 10.1007/s40846-024-00918-z
PMCID: PMC11876274
PMID: 40046733

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe remaining authors have 
nothing to disclose.


37. JAR Life. 2025 Feb 18;14:100001. doi: 10.1016/j.jarlif.2025.100001.
eCollection  2025.

Is late-life vulnerability to cardiovascular disease risk associated with 
longitudinal tau accumulation in older adults with mild cognitive impairment?

Dratva MA(1), Diaz JM(2), Thomas ML(2), Shen Q(1), Tsiknia AA(3), Rostowsky 
KA(4), Sundermann EE(5), Banks SJ(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
CA, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO, USA.
(3)Imaging Genetics Center, USC Mark and Mary Stevens Neuroimaging and 
Informatics Institute, Marina Del Rey, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Older females have higher Alzheimer's Disease (AD) risk and tau 
burden, especially in early disease stages, compared to males. Overlapping 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) and dementia risk factors, like the apolipoprotein 
(APOE)-ε4 allele, show mixed sex-specific results. We previously found that 
late-life CVD risk related more strongly to tau at a single timepoint in 
cognitively normal, older female APOE-ε4 carriers than in males.
OBJECTIVES: Do composite and component CVD risk factors explain sex differences 
in tau accumulation in older adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 
underlying amyloid-beta (Aβ) pathology?
DESIGN: Longitudinal analysis in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 
(ADNI) cohort.
SETTING: ADNI is a multi-site longitudinal study across the United States and 
Canada.
PARTICIPANTS: n = 52 older adults (aged 60-90), designated as both Aβ-positive 
and MCI.
MEASUREMENTS: CVD risk was measured by body mass index (BMI) and FRS, which 
includes age, systolic blood pressure (BP), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), 
total cholesterol, hypertension treatment, smoking, and diabetes. Regional 
standardized uptake value ratios (SUVRs) were extracted at each tau-PET 
timepoint. Composite SUVRs for Braak34 and Braak56 were calculated. Statistical 
models examined the separate and interactive effects of sex and APOE-ε4 on tau 
accumulation, and moderating effects of FRS, its components, or BMI, on tau 
accumulation.
RESULTS: Females accumulated more tau than males in bilateral Braak34 and right 
Braak56, while APOE-ε4 carriers trended toward more tau accumulation in left 
Braak56. FRS and its components did not relate to tau accumulation, nor 
influence sex effects, although they attenuated APOE-ε4 effects. In left 
Braak56, higher baseline BMI in males showed a trend toward greater tau 
accumulation.
CONCLUSIONS: In MCI and Aβ-positive older adults, females accumulated more tau 
than males, and late-life vascular risk did not explain this relationship. 
Higher BMI related to more tau accumulation in males only, suggesting 
sex-specific vulnerability to BMI on brain health. Although replication in 
larger and more representative cohorts is needed, these findings corroborate 
accelerated tau progression in older females, independent of CVD risk, and 
suggest that vascular health has limited influence on tau progression once AD 
pathology is established in the brain.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS on behalf of SERDI 
Publisher.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jarlif.2025.100001
PMCID: PMC11879684
PMID: 40046641

Conflict of interest statement: MAD has no conflicts of interest to report. JMD 
has no conflicts of interests to report. MLT has no conflicts of interest to 
report. QS has no conflicts of interest to report. AAT has no conflicts of 
interest to report. KAR has no conflicts of interest to report. EES has no 
conflicts of interest to report. SJB has no conflicts of interest to report.


38. Front Neurosci. 2025 Feb 19;19:1545690. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1545690. 
eCollection 2025.

Plasma exosomal miRNA expression and gut microbiota dysbiosis are associated 
with cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease.

Lin K(1), Lin W(2), Guo Z(1), Chen C(1), Chen L(3), Cai X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shantou 
University Medical College, Shantou, China.
(2)Neurology Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shantou University 
Medical College, Shantou, China.
(3)Department of Computer Science and Technology, College of Mathematics and 
Computer, Shantou University, Shantou, China.

INTRODUCTION: The gut microbiota composition and the expression profiles of 
microRNAs (miRNAs) in the brain tissue, cerebrospinal fluid, and blood of 
patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) differ significantly from those with 
normal cognition function. The study aimed to initially explore the relationship 
between plasma exosomal microRNAs, gut microbiota, and cognitive impairment, 
providing insights into the pathogenesis and treatment of AD.
METHODS: The study enrolled 8 participants with AD and 8 participants with 
normal cognition. The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) was utilized to 
evaluate cognitive function. High-throughput sequencing was used to identify 
differentially expressed miRNAs in plasma exosomes, while metagenomic sequencing 
was employed to detect differences in the abundance of gut microbiota. 
Furthermore, the associations among them were analyzed.
RESULTS: Four exosomal miRNAs and 14 microbiota taxa, which exhibited 
differential expression and abundance, respectively, in comparison between AD 
group and normal cognition group, were identified to be significantly associated 
with MMSE scores. Notably, the abundance of potential probiotics, including 
Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Roseburia intestinalis and Roseburia 
inulinivorans, which was decreased in AD patients, exhibited positive 
correlations with specific exosomal miRNAs: Roseburia intestinalis correlated 
with miR-3120-3p and miR-6529-5p; Roseburia inulinivorans correlated with 
miR-3120-3p, miR-6529-5p and miR-124-3p; Faecalibacterium prausnitzii correlated 
with miR-3120-3p.
DISCUSSION: The study revealed a close association among gut microbiota, plasma 
exosomal miRNAs, and cognitive impairment in AD, and suggested that specific 
components of gut microbiota and exosomal miRNAs may serve as potential 
biomarkers and therapeutic targets for AD on the microbiota-gut-brain axis.

Copyright © 2025 Lin, Lin, Guo, Chen, Chen and Cai.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1545690
PMCID: PMC11880238
PMID: 40046438

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


39. Brain Commun. 2025 Feb 23;7(2):fcaf089. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf089. 
eCollection 2025.

Association between amyloid-β42 levels and neuropsychiatric symptoms in 
Alzheimer's disease trials.

Abanto JT(1), Dwivedi AK(2), Imbimbo BP(3), Espay AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)James J. and Joan A. Gardner Family Center for Parkinson's Disease and 
Movement Disorders, Department of Neurology, University of Cincinnati, 
Cincinnati, OH 45219, USA.
(2)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Department of Molecular and 
Translational Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, El Paso, 
TX 79905, USA.
(3)Research and Development Department, Chiesi Farmaceutici, Parma 43122, Italy.

Research on how Alzheimer's disease drugs impact neuropsychiatric symptoms is 
limited. Given the link between changes in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) amyloid-β42 
(Aβ42) levels and cognitive and clinical outcomes after anti-Aβ treatments, we 
hypothesized a similar association exists with neuropsychiatric symptoms. We 
conducted a meta-analysis of anti-Aβ drugs clinical trials to evaluate whether 
the changes in cerebrospinal Aβ42 levels are associated with neuropsychiatric 
symptoms, as measured by the Neuropsychiatric Inventory and if any such effect 
is mediated by changes in cognitive performance, as measured by the Mini-Mental 
State Examination. Data from 10 trials involving 10 746 Alzheimer's disease 
patients were included. Decreases in Aβ42 levels were associated with worsening 
Neuropsychiatric Inventory scores (regression coefficient: -0.68; 95% confidence 
interval: -1.07 to -0.29; P = 0.002), and this association persisted after 
adjusting for Mini-Mental State Examination. Sensitivity analyses confirmed the 
robustness of these findings. Changes in CSF Aβ42 levels are inversely and 
independently associated with the frequency and severity of neuropsychiatric 
symptoms in anti-Aβ trials, suggesting a potential role of Aβ42 in modulating 
neuropsychiatric symptoms in Alzheimer's disease.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf089
PMCID: PMC11879397
PMID: 40046340

Conflict of interest statement: A.J.E. has received grant support from the NIH 
and the Michael J. Fox Foundation; personal compensation as a 
consultant/scientific advisory board member for Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma America 
(formerly, Neuroderm), Amneal, Acadia, Avion, Acorda, Bial, Kyowa Kirin, 
Supernus (formerly, US WorldMeds), NeuroDiagnostics, Inc (SYNAPS Dx), Intrance 
Medical Systems, Inc., Merz, Praxis Precision Medicines, Citrus Health and 
Herantis Pharma; Data Safety Monitoring Board (chair) of AskBio; and publishing 
royalties from Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Cambridge University Press and 
Springer. He cofounded REGAIN Therapeutics and is co-inventor of the patent 
‘Compositions and methods for treatment and/or prophylaxis of proteinopathies’. 
B.P.I. is an employee at Chiesi Farmaceutici. He is listed among the inventors 
of a number of Chiesi Farmaceutici’s patents of anti-Alzheimer drugs. J.T.A. and 
A.K.D. have nothing to disclose.


40. Brain Commun. 2025 Mar 5;7(2):fcaf080. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf080. 
eCollection 2025.

Phase 2 study of palmitoylethanolamide combined with luteoline in frontotemporal 
dementia patients.

Assogna M(1)(2), Di Lorenzo F(1), Bonnì S(1), Borghi I(1)(3), Cerulli Irelli 
E(4), Mencarelli L(1), Maiella M(1), Minei M(1), Esposito R(1), Casula EP(1)(5), 
Pezzopane V(1)(3), D'Acunto A(1), Porrazzini F(1), Candeo F(1), Ferraresi M(1), 
Motta C(5), Ferrari C(6), Caltagirone C(1), Martorana A(5), Koch G(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Behavioural Neurology, Santa Lucia Foundation 
IRCCS, Rome 00179, Italy.
(2)Department of Neurosciences, S. Camillo-Forlanini Hospital, Rome 00152, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, and 
Center for Translational Neurophysiology of Speech and Communication (CTNSC), 
Italian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ferrara 44121, Italy.
(4)Department of Human Neurosciences, Sapienza, University of Rome, Rome 00185, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Systems Medicine, University of Tor Vergata, Rome 00133, Italy.
(6)Office of Research and Clinical Trials, Fondazione Poliambulanza Istituto 
Ospedaliero, Brescia 25124, Italy.

Frontotemporal dementia is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder for which no 
pharmacological treatments have been approved. Neuroinflammation plays a central 
role in driving the pathogenic mechanisms underlying frontotemporal dementia. In 
the last few years, co-ultramicronized palmitoylethanolamide combined with 
luteoline has emerged as a potential therapeutic molecule in neurodegenerative 
disorders pathogenically related to frontotemporal dementia, for its 
demonstrated strong anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties. Here we 
wanted to determine whether treatment with co-ultramicronized 
palmitoylethanolamide combined with luteoline may have a clinical impact in 
frontotemporal dementia patients. We performed a Phase 2, monocentric, 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the safety and 
efficacy of co-ultramicronized palmitoylethanolamide combined with luteoline in 
frontotemporal dementia patients. Forty eight patients with a diagnosis of 
probable frontotemporal dementia were randomly assign in a 1:1 ratio to receive 
co-ultramicronized palmitoylethanolamide combined with luteoline oral suspension 
at the dosage of 700 mg + 70 mg twice/day (n = 25) or placebo twice/day (n = 23) 
for 24 weeks. The primary efficacy outcome measure was the change at 24-weeks in 
the Clinical Dementia Rating Dementia Staging Instrument from the National 
Alzheimer's Coordinating Center and frontotemporal lobar degeneration 
modules-sum of boxes (CDR plus NACC FTLD-SoB). Secondary outcome measures 
included the Frontal Assessment Battery, Screening for Aphasia in 
Neurodegeneration, Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily 
Living, Neuropsychiatric Inventory, Mini-Mental State Examination and 
Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination Revised. Among 48 patients randomized [mean 
(SD) age 63.2 (8.4), 23 (47.9%) female], 45 (93%) completed the study. Patients 
in the co-ultramicronized palmitoylethanolamide combined with luteoline group 
showed less decline for the primary outcome measure (CDR plus NACC FTLD) as 
compared with patients treated with placebo. The estimated mean change (W0-W24) 
in CDR plus NACC FTLD score was 0.53 for the co-ultramicronized 
palmitoylethanolamide combined with luteoline group [95% confidence interval 
(0.12-0.94)] and 1.39 for the placebo group [95% confidence interval 
(0.96-1.82)], with an estimated mean difference between of 0.86 [95% confidence 
interval (0.28-1.45), P = 0.005]. Estimated mean change in Alzheimer's Disease 
Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living score was -1.8 for 
co-ultramicronized palmitoylethanolamide combined with luteoline (95% confidence 
interval, -3.67 to 0.06) and -7.39 for placebo (95% confidence interval -9.34 to 
-5.45). Estimated mean change in screening for Aphasia in neurodegeneration 
scores was -3.987 for co-ultramicronized palmitoylethanolamide combined with 
luteoline (95% confidence interval, -7.75 to -0.22) and -10.35 for placebo (95% 
confidence interval, -14.33 to -6.37). No effect of treatment was found on other 
secondary outcome measures. Our results demonstrate that co-ultramicronized 
palmitoylethanolamide combined with luteoline shows promising efficacy in 
slowing down the progression of cognitive and functional symptoms in 
frontotemporal dementia patients. These findings warrant further investigation 
and offer potential for the development of effective therapeutic strategies for 
frontotemporal dementia.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf080
PMCID: PMC11881584
PMID: 40046339

Conflict of interest statement: G.K. has received competitive grants from the 
Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation (ADDF), European Commission Horizon 2020, 
Italian Ministry Of Health, Italian Ministry of Education (MIUR), Brightfocus 
Foundation, he has received funding from PIAM farmaceutici Spa and Epitech 
Group, he is scientific co-founder of Sinaptica Therapeutics and he has received 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from: Epitech, Roche and Novo Nordisk.


41. Brain Commun. 2025 Feb 21;7(2):fcaf085. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf085. 
eCollection 2025.

Enlarged cavum septum pellucidum as a neuroimaging signature of head impact 
exposure.

Kamps S(1)(2), Hempel HL(3), van Amerongen S(1)(2), de Bruin H(1)(2)(4), van der 
Linden FHC(2), Venkatraghavan V(1)(2), van der Flier WM(1)(2)(5), Pijnenburg 
YAL(1)(2), Barkhof F(3)(6), Scheltens P(1)(2)(7), Ossenkoppele R(1)(2)(8), 
Vijverberg EGB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, 1007 MB Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Vrije Universiteit, 1081 HV 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research, Klinikum der Ludwig-Maximilians 
Universität München, 81377 Munich, Germany.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Data Science, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Queen Square Institute of Neurology and Centre for Medical Image Computing, 
University College London, WC1E 6BT London, UK.
(7)Dementia Fund, EQT Life Sciences, 1071 DV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, 221 84 Lund, Sweden.

Cavum septum pellucidum (CSP) is commonly observed upon neuroimaging examination 
in individuals exposed to repetitive head impacts (RHI) and post-mortem in cases 
with chronic traumatic encephalopathy. Consequently, CSP has been proposed as a 
potential biomarker for RHI-related neurodegeneration, yet prevalence estimates 
of CSP across other neurodegenerative diseases and its clinical implications are 
largely unknown. We assessed CSP prevalence and clinical correlates in 
individuals with RHI exposure, a history of traumatic brain injury (TBI), a 
neurodegenerative disease (i.e. Alzheimer's disease or frontotemporal dementia) 
and normal cognition. The primary group of interest, i.e. individuals exposed to 
RHI in contact sports or military service (n = 65; mean exposure 21.58 years), 
was compared against age- and sex-matched participants with TBI (n = 57; number 
of TBI range: 1-5) and non-exposed participants of the Amsterdam Dementia Cohort 
(Alzheimer's disease, n = 30; frontotemporal dementia, n = 24; normal cognition, 
n = 27). Structural 3D brain MRI scans were visually rated for CSP grade 
(ranging 0-4) by two raters blinded to the clinical information. A CSP of at 
least Grade 2 was considered enlarged/abnormal. Inter-rater reliability was 
assessed with Cohens' weighted Kappa (κ). We investigated whether prevalence of 
enlarged CSP differed between groups and assessed associations with 
neuropsychological outcomes (verbal memory, processing speed, mental flexibility 
and semantic fluency), neuropsychiatric symptoms (neuropsychiatric inventory), 
ventricular enlargement as measured with Evan's index and MRI volumes of 
composite regions (limbic, temporal-meta regions and the whole brain). 
Inter-rater reliability was substantial [κ = 0.734 (95% confidence interval 
0.67-0.80)]. An enlarged CSP was more often observed in the RHI group (44.6%) 
compared with individuals with Alzheimer's disease [13.3%, odds ratio (OR) = 
5.24 (1.79-19.26)], frontotemporal dementia [16.7%, OR = 4.03 (1.35-15.02)] and 
normal cognition [18.5%, OR = 3.54 (1.27-11.62)], all P FDR < 0.05, but not 
compared with the TBI group [29.8%, OR = 1.90 (0.90-4.06), P FDR  = 0.094]. In 
those with RHI, enlarged CSP was associated with lower outcomes on verbal memory 
learning (η² = 0.09, P FDR = 0.023) and recall (η² = 0.08, P FDR = 0.030). For 
TBI, enlarged CSP was associated with lower performance on verbal memory 
learning; however, this lost significance after multiple comparison correction 
(η² = 0.014, P FDR = 0.09). Enlarged CSP was not associated with the composite 
MRI volumes, ventricular enlargement or neuropsychiatric symptoms. In summary, 
enlarged CSP was more prevalent in RHI-exposed individuals compared with 
individuals with a neurodegenerative disease or normal cognition, but not 
compared with TBI, and was associated with lower verbal memory performance in 
the RHI group. Our study highlights enlarged CSP as a potential consequence of 
long-term head impact exposure and, to a lesser extent, TBI, rather than a 
general consequence of neurodegeneration.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf085
PMCID: PMC11879415
PMID: 40046332

Conflict of interest statement: S.K., S.v.A., F.H.C.v.d.L., H.d.B., V.V., 
W.M.v.d.F. and Y.A.L.P. report no competing interests with regard to the current 
study. E.G.B.V. has received consultancy fees (paid to the university) for New 
Amsterdam Pharma, Treeway, ReMynd, Vivoryon, Biogen, Vigil Neuroscience, 
ImmunoBrain Checkpoint, Muna Therapeutics, Esai, Eli Lilly, CogRX, Therini, UCB 
and Roche. Within his university affiliation, he is PI of studies of DIAN, AC 
immune, Alnylam, CogRX therapeutics, New Amsterdam Pharma, Janssen, UCB, Roche, 
Vivoryon, ImmunoBrain, GSK, MSD, Biogen, Alector, Eli Lilly, AriBio Fuij Film 
Toyama, GemVax. E.G.B.V. is a co-founder of the CANDIDATE Center Amsterdam UMC. 
E.G.B.V. collaborates on scientific projects with the Dutch Soccer Association 
(KNVB). F.B. is the Steering Committee or Data Safety Monitoring Board member 
for Biogen, Merck, Eisai and Prothena; advisory board member for Combinostics 
and Scottish Brain Sciences; consultant for Roche, Celltrion, Rewind 
Therapeutics, Merck and Bracco; had research agreements with ADDI, Merck, 
Biogen, GE Healthcare and Roche; and co-founder and shareholder of Queen Square 
Analytics LTD. R.O. has received research funding/support from Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen Research and Development, Roche, Quanterix and 
Optina Diagnostics; has given lectures in symposia sponsored by GE Healthcare; 
is an advisory board member for Asceneuron and a steering committee member for 
Biogen and Bristol Myers Squibb. All the aforementioned has been paid to his 
institutions. P.S. is employed by Life Science Partners and is a professor 
emeritus at Amsterdam University Medical Center. He has an unpaid leadership 
position as Chair of World Dementia Council. He holds stock options in EQT AB.


42. Influenza Other Respir Viruses. 2025 Mar;19(3):e70071. doi:
10.1111/irv.70071.

Neurologic Complications of Influenza and Potential Protective Vaccine Effects.

Falsey AR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Rochester, Rochester, New 
York, USA.

Influenza is a common respiratory infection affecting persons of all ages and 
results in significant morbidity and mortality. Respiratory complications are 
well known, but important nonpulmonary complications are less well recognized. 
Neurologic complications following influenza infection may accompany the acute 
illness or may be chronic in nature. The acute complications such as seizures, 
encephalitis, myelitis and Guillain Barre Syndrome are well documented but 
fortunately are uncommon. However, stroke and dementia are leading causes of 
death and disability worldwide, and there is increasing evidence linking these 
devasting illnesses with influenza. In addition, influenza vaccine has been 
associated with protective effects against stroke and dementia risk.

© 2025 The Author(s). Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/irv.70071
PMCID: PMC11883286
PMID: 40045906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflicts of interest.


43. J Neurosurg Sci. 2025 Feb;69(1):79-91. doi: 10.23736/S0390-5616.24.06360-4.

Treatment of iNPH: novel insights.

Schmidt E(1), Krauss JK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Toulouse University Hospital, Toulouse, France - 
schmidt.e@chu-toulouse.fr.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.

This review advocates for a shift from traditional symptom-based diagnosis of 
idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) to a deeper investigation into 
its underlying pathophysiological mechanisms, particularly the role of altered 
cerebral hydrodynamics as an important pathological hallmark. We explore the 
heterogeneity of iNPH, emphasizing its frequent overlap and cooccurrence with 
neurodegenerative conditions like Alzheimer and Parkinson disease, and 
subcortical vascular encephalopathy, complicating diagnosis and treatment 
strategies. The lumbar infusion test emerges as a useful diagnostic tool, 
offering quantitative insights into CSF outflow resistance that should be 
considered as a useful biomarker related to cerebral hydrodynamics and iNPH 
pathophysiology. Furthermore, we propose the hypothesis that shunt placement, by 
regulating brain fluid mechanics, may also serve as a form of neuromodulation, 
potentially enhancing neuronal function and mitigating clinical symptoms. This 
review advocates for an interdisciplinary, physics-based and patient-centered 
approach that emphasizes early detection, accurate diagnostics, and personalized 
treatment plans to enhance patient outcomes and quality of life, particularly in 
the aging population.

DOI: 10.23736/S0390-5616.24.06360-4
PMID: 40045806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Disabil Rehabil Assist Technol. 2025 Aug;20(6):1624-1632. doi: 
10.1080/17483107.2025.2471483. Epub 2025 Mar 5.

Dementia-related needs through the lens of social robotics: a scoping review 
protocol.

Zafer B(1), Carragher L(1), Share P(2), Ward J(3), Brady F(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Science, Dundalk Institute of Technology, Dundalk, 
Ireland.
(2)Faculty of Business and Social Sciences, Atlantic Technological University, 
Sligo, Ireland.
(3)De Chastelain Library, Dundalk Institute of Technology, Dundalk, Ireland.

Social robotics, a hybrid discipline that combines robotics with social 
sciences, has been receiving substantial investments from governments due to the 
ongoing challenges posed by ageing populations worldwide. Dementia is a 
neurodegenerative syndrome that requires long-term care and has therefore become 
an important area for social robotics. The scientific literature has many 
reports on the "needs" associated with the dementia care ecosystem; however, 
only a small portion of those needs are currently translated to discussions on 
social robots. The planned scoping review aims to synthesise evidence from the 
global scientific literature about the needs identified by researchers involved 
in social robotics. The comparison of this specific subset of needs with the 
broader landscape of dementia-related needs can help reveal research gaps. 
Guided by the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) methodological framework, this 
scoping review will examine dementia-related needs in terms of social robotics 
across eleven electronic databases. Evidence related to the needs of all 
stakeholders, including people with dementia, formal and informal carers, 
roboticists, researchers, health and social care professionals, and policymakers 
will be systematically synthesised. This comprehensive review will be the first 
to examine all reported needs for care stakeholders within the context of social 
robotics and human-robot interactions (HRI). The findings, which will be 
systematically synthesised and presented, are anticipated to inform a broad 
interdisciplinary audience and will be submitted for publication in a 
peer-reviewed scientific journal.

Plain Language Summary: In the realm of dementia care, social robotics emerges 
as a highly promising domain within non-pharmacological therapies, with an 
increasing number of novel robotic systems being introduced to the market, aimed 
at addressing diverse care needs.The findings from the planned scoping review 
will identify which collaboration between stakeholders on the design, 
functionality and acceptability of social robots can provide the most effective 
solutions for dementia care in the years ahead.This review will identify which 
dementia-related needs are currently prioritised by social robotics researchers 
as well as other potential needs and stakeholders that can be targeted for the 
design of next-generation robots.

DOI: 10.1080/17483107.2025.2471483
PMID: 40045691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul;62(7):8809-8823. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04806-8.
Epub  2025 Mar 5.

Unlocking the Therapeutic Potential of the Dual-Specificity Tyrosine 
Phosphorylation-Regulated Kinase 1A Inhibitors in Alzheimer's Diseases.

Karati D(1), Meur S(2), Saha A(2), Saha T(2), Sen A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, School of Pharmacy, Techno India 
University, West Bengal, Kolkata, West Bengal, 700091, India. 
karatibabai@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, School of Pharmacy, Techno India 
University, West Bengal, Kolkata, West Bengal, 700091, India.

With 60-70% of all occurrences of dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), an 
advancing neurological illness, is one of the most frequent causes of dementia. 
Even though the exact etiology of AD is still unidentified, persons who have the 
disease have been found to have a number of abnormalities in their brains. Apart 
from the buildup of amyloid-β plaques inside the brain tissue, it has been 
demonstrated that abnormal tau protein phosphorylation increases the risk of 
neuronal death. The discovery of dual-specificity tyrosine 
phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A) is becoming increasingly 
significant in the fight to create efficacious Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
therapies. The pathophysiology of AD, which includes the creation of amyloid 
plaques and tau hyperphosphorylation, is intimately connected with the 
dysregulation of DYRK1A, which is essential for neurodevelopment and cognitive 
function. In addition to amyloid plaques, DYRK1A phosphorylates tau on 11 
distinct Ser/Thr residues, forming aggregates known as "neurofibrillary tangles" 
that may be the cause of dementia, neuronal degeneration, and cell death. 
Therefore, targeting DYRK1A with small molecules may be a promising therapy 
strategy for Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative illnesses. This study 
examines the therapeutic potential of DYRK1A inhibitors in AD and offers a 
thorough explanation of the molecular pathways through which DYRK1A promotes the 
development of the illness.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04806-8
PMID: 40044956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: Not applicable. 
Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. 
Conflict of Interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


46. Sci Rep. 2025 Mar 6;15(1):7792. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-92565-w.

Optical signature of retinal Tau fibrillation.

Salajková Z(1)(2), Barolo L(3), Baiocco P(4), Ruzicka B(5)(6), Mura F(7), Di 
Lorenzo F(8), Boffi A(9)(4), Ricco V(10), Ruocco G(9)(6), Leonetti M(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Center for Life Nano- and Neuro-Science, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, 
Viale Regina Elena 291, 00161, Rome, Italy. zita.salajkova@iit.it.
(2)D-Tails s.r.l. BCorp, Via di Torre Rossa, 66, 00165, Rome, Italy. 
zita.salajkova@iit.it.
(3)Department of Biochemical Sciences "Alessandro Rossi Fanelli", Sapienza 
University of Rome, P.le A. Moro 5, 00185, Rome, Italy. 
lorenzo.barolo@uniroma1.it.
(4)Department of Biochemical Sciences "Alessandro Rossi Fanelli", Sapienza 
University of Rome, P.le A. Moro 5, 00185, Rome, Italy.
(5)Sapienza Unit, Institute for Complex Systems of the National Research Council 
(ISC-CNR), Piazzale A. Moro 5, 00185, Rome, Italy.
(6)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Roma "La Sapienza", P.le Aldo Moro 5, 
00185, Rome, Italy.
(7)Research Center on Nanotechnologies Applied to Engineering of Sapienza 
(CNIS), P.zza Aldo Moro 5, 00185, Rome, Italy.
(8)Neuropsychophisiology Lab, Istituto Di Ricovero E Cura a Carattere 
Scientifico Santa Lucia, via Ardeatina 306, 00179, Rome, Italy.
(9)Center for Life Nano- and Neuro-Science, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, 
Viale Regina Elena 291, 00161, Rome, Italy.
(10)D-Tails s.r.l. BCorp, Via di Torre Rossa, 66, 00165, Rome, Italy.
(11)Rome Unit, Institute of Nanotechnology of the National Research Council of 
Italy, CNR-NANOTEC, Piazzale A. Moro 5, 00185, Rome, Italy.

Fibrillated Tau proteins are believed to be a signature of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) and may be potentially employed as a biosensor for AD early detection. 
Several studies revealed the presence of Tau accumulation and aggregation in the 
retina, similar to that observed in the brains of individuals with AD. These 
retinal changes can be non-invasively visualised through AD-related scores 
derived from reflectance measurements of the patient fundus. However, a direct 
link with the optical properties of fibrillated protein clusters is still 
lacking. Here, we present a new optical technique which measures the scattering 
optical properties of protein fibrils. Our experimental findings show that the 
scattering intensity of Tau has a wavelength dependence correlated to their 
size. The optical signal qualitatively replicates the spectral signature 
observed in human AD patient retinas. Our paper shows that the Tau protein 
spectral signature is compatible with the distinctive spectral signature of the 
AD, further confirming that retinal investigation is a promising tool.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-92565-w
PMCID: PMC11882907
PMID: 40044873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


47. Nat Commun. 2025 Mar 5;16(1):2019. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-57144-7.

Phosphorylated tau 181 and 217 are elevated in serum and muscle of patients with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Abu-Rumeileh S(#)(1), Scholle L(#)(1), Mensch A(1), Großkopf H(1), Ratti 
A(2)(3), Kölsch A(1), Stoltenburg-Didinger G(1)(4), Conrad J(5), De Gobbi A(2), 
Barba L(1), Steinacker P(1), Klafki HW(6), Oeckl P(7)(8), Halbgebauer S(7)(8), 
Stapf C(1), Posa A(1), Kendzierski T(1), Silani V(2)(9), Hausner L(10), Ticozzi 
N(2)(9), Froelich L(10), Weishaupt JH(5)(7), Verde F(2)(9), Otto M(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle 
(Saale), Germany.
(2)Department of Neurology and Laboratory of Neuroscience, IRCCS Istituto 
Auxologico Italiano, Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Medical Biotechnology and Translational Medicine, Università 
degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy.
(4)Institute of Cell Biology and Neurobiology, Charité, Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Division for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Department of Neurology, Mannheim 
Center for Translational Medicine, University Medicine Mannheim, University of 
Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center 
Goettingen (UMG), Georg-August University, Goettingen, Germany.
(7)Department of Neurology, Ulm University Hospital, Ulm, Germany.
(8)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE e.V.), Ulm, Germany.
(9)Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, "Dino Ferrari" Center, 
Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy.
(10)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, Central Institute of Mental Health, 
Medical Faculty Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.
(11)Department of Neurology, Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle 
(Saale), Germany. markus.otto@uk-halle.de.
(#)Contributed equally

Blood phosphorylated (p)-tau 181 and p-tau 217 have been proposed as accurate 
biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. However, blood p-tau 181 is 
also elevated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) without a clearly 
identified source. We measured serum p-tau 181 and p-tau 217 in a multicentre 
cohort of ALS (n = 152), AD (n = 111) cases and disease controls (n = 99) 
recruited from four different centres. Further, we investigated the existence of 
both p-tau species using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and mass spectrometry 
(MS) in muscle biopsies of ALS cases (IHC: n = 13, MS: n = 5) and disease 
controls (IHC: n = 14, MS: n = 5) from one cohort. Serum p-tau 181 and p-tau 217 
were higher in AD and ALS patients compared to disease controls. IHC and MS 
analyses revealed the presence of p-tau 181 and 217 in muscle biopsies from both 
ALS cases and disease controls, with ALS samples showing increased p-tau 
reactivity in atrophic muscle fibres. Blood p-tau species could potentially be 
used to diagnose both ALS and AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-57144-7
PMCID: PMC11882981
PMID: 40044663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: S.A.R. received research 
support from the Medical Faculty of Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg 
(Clinician Scientist Programm No. CS22/06), unrelated to the work presented in 
this paper. A.M. has received advisory board honoraria and speaking fees from 
Hormosan and Sanofi, all unrelated to the submitted work. J.C. received research 
support from the German Foundation of Neurology (Deutsche Stiftung Neurologie), 
the Rolf-Schwiete-Stiftung, and the programme for research and education at LMU 
Munich (FoeFoLe-LMU), all unrelated to the work presented in the paper. L.B. 
received research support from the Medical Faculty of Martin-Luther-University 
Halle-Wittenberg (Junior Clinician Scientist Programm No. JCS24/02), unrelated 
to the work presented in this paper. P.O. received research support from the 
Cure Alzheimer Fund, ALS Association (24-SGP-691, 23-PPG-674-2), ALS Finding a 
Cure, the Charcot Foundation, the DZNE Innovation-to-Application programme and 
consulting fees from LifeArc and Fundamental Pharma, unrelated to the work 
presented in this paper. V.S. received compensation for consulting services 
and/or speaking activities from AveXis, Cytokinetics, Italfarmaco, Liquidweb 
S.r.l., Novartis Pharma AG, Amylyx Pharmaceuticals, Biogen, and Zambon Biotech 
SA; receives or has received research supports from the Italian Ministry of 
Health, AriSLA, and E-Rare Joint Transnational Call, all unrelated to the work 
presented in this paper. V.S. is in the Editorial Board of Amyotrophic Lateral 
Sclerosis and Frontotemporal Degeneration, European Neurology, American Journal 
of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Frontiers in Neurology, and Exploration of 
Neuroprotective Therapy. V.S., N.T. and F.V. acknowledge the support of Italian 
Ministry of Health (Ricerca Corrente/Ricerca Finalizzata; Hub Life 
Science-Diagnostica Avanzata (HLS-DA), PNC-E3-2022-23683266, the Italian 
Ministry of Health within the Complementary National Plan Innovative Health 
Ecosystem) and the Italian Ministry of Education and Research (“Dipartimenti di 
Eccellenza” Program 2023-2027, Department of Pathophysiology and 
Transplantation, Università degli Studi di Milano), unrelated to the work 
presented in this paper. C.S. received support from the Doris Ruess Stiftung, 
unrelated to the work presented in this paper. M.O. received research support 
from the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (projects: FTLDc 
01GI1007A), the EU Moodmarker programme (01EW2008), the ALS Association, the 
foundation of the state Baden-Württemberg (D.3830), Boehringer Ingelheim Ulm 
University BioCenter (D.5009), and the Thierry Latran Foundation and EU‐MIRIADE 
and the Roux-programme of the Martin Luther University Halle (Saale); M.O. 
received consulting fees from Biogen, Axon, Roche, and Grifols; and participates 
on the Biogen ATLAS trial board, all unrelated to the work presented in this 
paper; is a speaker of the german FTLD consortium, is involved in an unpaid role 
with the German Society for CSF Diagnostics and Neurochemistry, and is involved 
without pay with the Society for CSF Diagnostics and Neurochemistry. M.O., P.O., 
and S.H. are co-inventors of a patent application for using beta-synuclein 
measurement in blood. The other authors report no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript.


48. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;12(4):100101. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100101.  Epub 2025 Mar 4.

Qualitative research and literature review support the integrated Alzheimer's 
Disease Rating Scale (iADRS) content validity in early symptomatic AD.

Delbecque L(1), Elliott E(2), Cleanthous S(3), Heinrich P(3), Cano S(3), Wessels 
AM(4), Atkins AS(4).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA. Electronic address: 
delbecque_laure@lilly.com.
(2)Modus Outcomes, a THREAD company, UK; School of Health Sciences, The 
University of Manchester, UK.
(3)Modus Outcomes, a THREAD company, UK.
(4)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The integrated Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale 
(iADRS) is a measure of cognition and daily function used to evaluate treatment 
effects in Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical trials. This study aimed to assess 
the content validity of the iADRS in early symptomatic AD, and to determine 
whether integrating assessment of cognition and function into a single measure 
of global disease severity is supported by the patients' experience.
METHODS: A targeted literature review of qualitative research in AD and 
qualitative interviews with 25 care partners of individuals with early 
symptomatic AD were conducted. Interviews started with open-ended concept 
elicitation exploring the patient experience of AD from the care partner 
perspective, including how cognitive changes affect daily functioning. This was 
followed by cognitive debriefing of the ADCS-iADL items. Interview transcripts 
were analyzed thematically. Concepts extracted from the literature review and 
interviews were categorized into a conceptual model of patient experience of AD. 
A concept-to-item mapping exercise was conducted to assess the conceptual 
coverage of the iADRS.
RESULTS: The literature review comprised sixty articles. Interviews were 
conducted with care partners of 7 individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment 
(MCI)-AD and care partners of 18 individuals with dementia due to AD. The 
resulting conceptual model incorporated 75 concepts related to AD experience 
categorized into three overarching domains: Cognition, Daily Function and Other 
Symptoms/Impacts. Interview findings endorsed the close link between cognition 
and daily function. Concept-to-item mapping demonstrated all Cognition and Daily 
function sub-domains within the model were assessed by at least one iADRS item, 
except Work/Professional, providing supportive evidence that the iADRS covers 
concepts that reflect the patient experience of early symptomatic AD.
CONCLUSIONS: This study offers a comprehensive conceptualisation of the patient 
experience of early symptomatic AD and highlights the intrinsic connection 
between cognition and daily function. The findings endorse the relevance of an 
integrated assessment of cognition and function and provide strong evidence for 
the content validity of the iADRS, highlighting its utility as a meaningful 
clinical outcome assessment (COA) for use as an endpoint in AD.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100101
PMCID: PMC12183977
PMID: 40044513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


49. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 May;306(Pt 4):141715. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.141715. Epub 2025 Mar 3.

Radix Hedysari Polysaccharides modulate the gut-brain axis and improve cognitive 
impairment in SAMP8 mice.

Yang S(1), Wang L(2), Liang X(1), Pei T(3), Zeng Y(1), Xie B(1), Wang Y(1), Yang 
M(1), Wei D(4), Cheng W(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou 510515, China.
(2)Institute of Basic Research in Clinical Medicine, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100700, China.
(3)The Affiliated Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital, Guangzhou Medical 
University, Guangzhou 510145, China.
(4)Institute of Basic Research in Clinical Medicine, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100700, China. Electronic address: 
weidongfeng@aliyun.com.
(5)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou 510515, China. Electronic address: chengweidong888@sina.com.

OBJECTIVE: Radix Hedysari Polysaccharides (RHP) are the principal bioactive 
constituents of the traditional Chinese medicinal herb Radix Hedysari. This 
study aims to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of RHP in both cellular and 
animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and to elucidate the underlying 
molecular mechanisms.
METHODS: HT22 cells subjected to Aβ25-35-induced cytotoxicity were pretreated 
with RHP, followed by assessments of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, 
mitochondrial superoxide (mSOX) levels, and mitochondrial membrane potential 
(ΔΨm). Senescence-accelerated mouse-prone 8 (SAMP8) mice were orally 
administered RHP for 12 weeks. Behavioral assays were conducted to assess 
cognitive function, while metabolomic and proteomic analyses were performed to 
examine serum metabolic alterations and hippocampal protein expression profiles. 
Additionally, neuronal autophagy and gut barrier integrity were evaluated using 
immunohistochemistry, transmission electron microscopy, and biomarker 
quantification.
RESULTS: RHP treatment significantly attenuated Aβ25-35-induced oxidative stress 
in HT22 cells by reducing ROS and mSOX production while preserving ΔΨm. In SAMP8 
mice, RHP improved cognitive performance, preserved hippocampal mitochondrial 
ultrastructure, and enhanced neuronal autophagic activity. Moreover, RHP 
modulated serum metabolic pathways and alleviated gut barrier dysfunction, 
suggesting a role in gut-brain axis regulation.
CONCLUSION: RHP ameliorates cognitive impairment in SAMP8 mice, potentially 
through its modulation of systemic metabolism, mitigation of neuronal 
mitochondrial damage, and restoration of gut barrier integrity. These findings 
highlight the therapeutic potential of RHP in AD intervention and warrant 
further investigation into its mechanistic underpinnings.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.141715
PMID: 40044002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


50. J Control Release. 2025 May 10;381:113604. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2025.113604.  Epub 2025 Mar 3.

A nasally administrated reactive oxygen species-responsive carrier-free gene 
delivery nanosystem for Alzheimer's disease combination therapy.

Chen Y(1), Yang X(1), Li J(2), Luo H(1), Huang Q(1), Yang W(1), Lei T(1), Lui 
S(2), Gong Q(3), Li H(4), Wu H(5), Gao H(6).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Drug-Targeting and Drug Delivery System of the Education 
Ministry and Sichuan Province, West China School of Pharmacy, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu 610064, Sichuan, PR China.
(2)Department of Radiology and Huaxi MR Research Center, and Functional and 
Molecular Imaging Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu 610064, Sichuan, PR China.
(3)Department of Radiology and Huaxi MR Research Center, and Functional and 
Molecular Imaging Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu 610064, Sichuan, PR China; Department of Radiology, 
West China Xiamen Hospital of Sichuan University, Xiamen 361000, Fujian, PR 
China.
(4)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Chengdu University, Chengdu 
610106, China.
(5)Department of Radiology and Huaxi MR Research Center, and Functional and 
Molecular Imaging Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu 610064, Sichuan, PR China. Electronic address: 
haoxingwu@scu.edu.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Drug-Targeting and Drug Delivery System of the Education 
Ministry and Sichuan Province, West China School of Pharmacy, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu 610064, Sichuan, PR China. Electronic address: 
gaohuile@scu.edu.cn.

Combination therapies targeting multiple pathways are needed in order to improve 
treatment outcomes in Alzheimer's disease (AD) due to its complex pathogenesis. 
Amyloid-β and microglia-mediated neuroinflammation significantly contribute to 
AD pathogenesis. Amyloid-β-related nucleic acid drugs have demonstrated 
considerable potential in AD treatment; however, their clinical translation is 
limited by complex synthesis processes and carrier toxicity. Herein, an 
intranasally administrated, reactive oxygen species (ROS)-responsive, 
carrier-free gene delivery nanosystem (FTBR-NAC) was constructed for 
re-polarizing microglia and decreasing amyloid-β expression. In this nanosystem, 
fingolimod was conjugated with biguanide via an ROS-responsive linker to form 
the carrier for β-secretase 1 siRNA (siBACE1) to form FTBR nanoparticles. The 
electropositivity of FTBR and mucolytic activity of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) 
together enhanced the brain entry of FTBR. Upon reaching the brain, FTBR 
responded to the elevated ROS at the pathological site, releasing siBACE1 and 
fingolimod. Administration of FTBR-NAC improved cognitive function in AD mice, 
demonstrating the high therapeutic efficacy of this relatively simple 
nanosystem.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2025.113604
PMID: 40043915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Am J Kidney Dis. 2025 Jul;86(1):97-108. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2025.01.007. Epub
 2025 Mar 3.

Diagnosis and Management of Dementia for the Nephrology Clinician: A Review.

Liu CK(1), Cheung KL(2), Tamura MK(3).

Author information:
(1)Section of Geriatric Medicine, Division of Primary Care and Population 
Health, School of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, California; Geriatric 
Research and Education Clinical Center, Veteran Affairs Palo Alto Health Care 
System, Palo Alto, California. Electronic address: chliu1@stanford.edu.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Larner College of Medicine, University of Vermont, 
Burlington, Vermont; Center on Aging, Larner College of Medicine, University of 
Vermont, Burlington, Vermont.
(3)Division of Nephrology, School of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, 
California; Geriatric Research and Education Clinical Center, Veteran Affairs 
Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, California.

Dementia describes when a person has cognitive limitations that impede function. 
Persons with kidney disease are unduly impacted by dementia: up to 87% of the 
dialysis population has cognitive impairment. In this review, we discuss the 
diagnosis and management of dementia, including the role of cerebrovascular 
disease and other risk factors. We review the available screening tools for the 
diagnosis of dementia. We discuss how the diagnosis of dementia differs from the 
diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment and also detail how delirium and 
depression can mimic dementia. In terms of treatments for dementia, we highlight 
4 components. First, we describe pharmacologic treatments for the management of 
dementia, including the cholinesterase inhibitors N-methyl-d-aspartate 
antagonists as well as the newer antiamyloid antibody drugs for Alzheimer 
dementia. Second, we discuss the importance of nonpharmacologic interventions 
for the management of dementia, especially exercise. Third, we review approaches 
for the behavioral and neuropsychiatric symptoms associated with dementia, 
including potential medication management. Fourth, we highlight the essential 
and valuable role of caregivers in both the diagnosis and management of 
dementia. We conclude with key considerations about the impact of dementia for 
persons receiving dialysis and the role of dementia in kidney transplant 
evaluation.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2025.01.007
PMCID: PMC12182998
PMID: 40043899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Behav Brain Res. 2025 Apr 27;484:115524. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115524. Epub
 2025 Mar 3.

Role of RhoA-ROCK signaling inhibitor fasudil in Alzheimer disease.

Al-Kuraishy HM(1), Sulaiman GM(2), Mohammed HA(3), Al-Gareeb AI(4), Albuhadily 
AK(1), Mohammed SG(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Mustansiriyah University, Baghdad, Iraq.
(2)Division of Biotechnology, Department of Applied Sciences, University of 
Technology, Baghdad 10066, Iraq. Electronic address: 
ghassan.m.sulaiman@uotechnology.edu.iq.
(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, 
Qassim University, Qassim 51452, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Jabir Ibn Hayyan Medical University, Kufa, Najaf 54001, Iraq.
(5)Department of Pathological Analysis, College of Applied Science, Samarra 
University, Saladin, Iraq.

Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative brain disease linked 
with the development of dementia. AD neuropathology is characterized by the 
progressive accumulation of extracellular β-amyloid (Aβ) plaques and 
intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). Different signaling pathways are 
involved in AD neuropathology through modulation of Aβ formation and tau protein 
hyperphosphorylation. One of these signaling is Rho-associated protein kinase 
(ROCK). RhoA-ROCK signaling boosts the production of Aβ through activation of 
β-secretase and augments the formation of NFTs. RhoA-ROCK signaling is also 
intricate in the development of oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. 
Consequently, targeting RhoA-ROCK signaling by specific inhibitors, such as 
fasudil, may decrease AD neuropathology. Therefore, this perspective aims to 
discuss the role of RhoA-ROCK signaling in the pathogenesis of AD and how 
fasudil could be effective in its treatment.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115524
PMID: 40043855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interest The authors declare no 
competing interests.


53. Brain Res. 2025 May 1;1854:149548. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149548. Epub 
2025 Mar 4.

Transcriptomic and network analysis identifies shared pathways across 
Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.

Zheng C(1), Zhao Y(2), Hu C(3), Zhang L(1), Li G(4), Yang C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University, 
Beijing 100053, PR China.
(2)Department of Gerontology, Beijing Hospital, National Center of Gerontology, 
Institute of Geriatric Medicine, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 
100005, PR China.
(3)Phase I Clinical Trial Unit, Beijing Ditan Hospital of Capital Medical 
University, Beijing 100015, PR China.
(4)Department of Clinical Trial Center, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing 100070, PR China.
(5)Department of Clinical Trial Center, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing 100070, PR China. Electronic address: 
yangcuicui@bjtth.org.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD) are often accompanied, but 
there are no effective differential diagnosis and treatment for VaD. The search 
for common pathogenic targets or pathways connecting the two diseases is helpful 
to the drug development and treatment of the disease. In this study, we used 
gene expression array data from the GEO database to analyze common 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the temporal cortex of patients with AD 
and VaD. AD and VaD shared 143 DEGs. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia 
of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis showed that the 
biological function of common DEGs was mainly related to chemical synaptic 
transmission, neuroactive ligand-receptor, and cytokine-cytokine receptor 
interaction pathway. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis showed the 
interaction of down- and up-regulated DEGs. The mRNA expression levels of key 
proteins in neuroactive ligand-receptor and cytokine-cytokine receptor 
interaction pathway were verified in AD and VaD mice. The real-time quantitative 
polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) test was used to detect the expression of 
DEGs. Data of RT-qPCR showed the mRNA level of γ-aminobutyric acid type B 
receptor subunit 1 (GABBR1) was decreased in both AD and VaD. In addition, the 
mRNA of interleukin-17 receptor A (IL-17RA), IL-17 and IL-18 were increased. In 
conclusion, the shared genes in AD and VaD were verified in our study. We 
identified the critical genes to offer a theoretical basis for understanding the 
linkage of AD and VaD, which provided potential drug targets against AD and VaD.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149548
PMID: 40043785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


54. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2025 Apr 1;755:151578. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.151578. Epub 2025 Mar 2.

MPO and its role in cancer, cardiovascular and neurological disorders: An 
update.

Jannesar K(1), Soraya H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Pharmacy, Urmia 
University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Pharmacy, Urmia 
University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran. Electronic address: 
soraya.h@umsu.ac.ir.

Myeloperoxidase (MPO) is an enzyme that contains a heme group, found mostly in 
neutrophils and in small amounts in monocytes and plays a major role in their 
anti-microbial activity. However, excessive levels of MPO have been linked to 
various disorders and identified as a major cause of tissue destruction. 
Inhibiting its activity can reduce the severity and extent of tissue damage. 
Over activity of MPO during chronic inflammation has been shown to be involved 
in tumorigenesis by inducing a hyper-mutagenic environment through oxidant 
interaction with DNA, causing DNA modification. Vascular endothelium is one of 
the most important targets of MPO and high levels have been associated with 
increased rates of cardiomyopathy, ischemic stroke, heart failure, myocardial 
infarction, and atrial fibrillation. Therefore, it may be considered a 
therapeutic target in the treatment of cardiovascular disorders. MPO also 
participates in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. For example, an 
increase in MPO levels has been observed in the brain tissue of patients with 
Alzheimer's, Multiple sclerosis (MS), and Parkinson's diseases. In Alzheimer's 
disease, active MPO is mostly found in the location of beta amyloids and 
microglia. Therefore, targeting MPO may be a potential treatment and prevention 
strategy for neurological disorders. This review will discuss MPO's 
physiological and pathological role in cancer, cardiovascular, and neurological 
disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.151578
PMID: 40043618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.


55. Talanta. 2025 Aug 15;291:127855. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2025.127855. Epub
2025  Feb 27.

Transformative potentials, challenges and innovative solutions of lipidomics in 
multiple clinical applications.

M M(1), Sabavath BTN(1), Gaddam V(1), Paul D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER)-Kolkata, West Bengal, 700054, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER)-Kolkata, West Bengal, 700054, India. Electronic 
address: davidpaul@niperkolkata.ac.in.

Lipidomics, a rapidly evolving field within metabolomics, provides comprehensive 
insights into lipid profiles and their roles in health and disease. Advances in 
lipidomics have enabled the discovery of novel biomarkers with significant 
clinical applications, revolutionizing the diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic 
monitoring of various diseases. Emerging methodologies, including 
high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS), Ion mobility spectrometry (IMS), and 
Supercritical Fluid Chromatography (SFC) have enhanced lipid identification and 
quantification with remarkable analytical whip hands. These advancements are 
complemented by innovative sample preparation techniques ensuring the recovery 
of diverse lipid species with minimal degradation. Biomarker discovery with 
lipidomics has illuminated critical pathways in numerous diseases, including 
cardiovascular disorders, neurodegenerative conditions, metabolic syndromes, and 
cancers. Specific lipid classes, such as sphingolipids (SLs) and phospholipids 
(PLs) have been linked to Alzheimer's disease and diabetes, respectively, while 
oxylipins and eicosanoids are emerging as inflammatory biomarkers. Furthermore, 
lipidomic profiles have shown promise in personalized medicine, enabling the 
stratification of patient sub-populations and tailoring treatment strategies. 
This review emphasizes the latest innovative developments in analytical 
technologies, advanced sample preparation techniques and challenges for 
lipidomics research including bioinformatic tools on multiple clinical 
conditions. By exploring these cutting-edge developments, this review highlights 
the transformative potential of lipidomics in biomarker discovery across diverse 
clinical applications.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2025.127855
PMID: 40043372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


56. Sci Adv. 2025 Mar 7;11(10):eadt1288. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adt1288. Epub 2025
Mar  5.

Associations between hormone therapy use and tau accumulation in brain regions 
vulnerable to Alzheimer's disease.

Coughlan GT(1), Rubinstein Z(1), Klinger H(1), Lopez KA(1), Hsieh S(1), Boyle 
R(2), Seto M(1), Townsend D(1), Mayblyum D(3), Thibault E(3), Jacobs HIL(4), 
Farrell M(1), Rabin JS(5)(6)(7), Papp K(1), Amariglio R(1), Baker S(8), Lois 
C(3), Rentz D(1), Price J(3), Schultz A(1), Properzi M(1), Johnson K(3)(9), 
Sperling R(1)(9)(10), Buckley RF(1)(9)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(2)Penn Frontotemporal Degeneration Center, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(3)Gordon Center for Medical Imaging, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(4)The Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Department of 
Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 
02129, USA.
(5)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Harquail Centre for Neuromodulation, Hurvitz Brain Sciences Program, 
Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Rehabilitation Sciences Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(8)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.
(9)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(10)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(11)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Australia.

Elucidating the downstream impact of exogenous hormones on the aging brain will 
have far-reaching consequences for understanding why Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
predominates in women almost twofold over men. We tested the extent to which 
menopausal hormone therapy (HT) use is associated with later-life amyloid-β (Aβ) 
and tau accumulation using PET on N = 146 baseline clinically normal women, aged 
51 to 89 years. Women were scanned over a 4.5-year (SD, 2.1; range, 1.3 to 10.4) 
and 3.5-year (SD, 1.5; range, 1.2 to 8.1) period for Aβ and tau, respectively, 
~14 years after the initiation of HT. In older women (aged >70 years), HT users 
exhibited faster regional tau accumulation relative to non-users, localized to 
the entorhinal cortex and the inferior temporal and fusiform gyri, with an 
indirect effect of HT on cognitive decline through regional tau accumulation. In 
younger women (aged <70 years), HT associations with tau accumulation were 
negligible. Findings are relevant for optimizing menopausal treatment 
guidelines.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adt1288
PMCID: PMC11881894
PMID: 40043125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Sci Adv. 2025 Mar 7;11(10):eadt0757. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adt0757. Epub 2025
Mar  5.

The interplay between age at menopause and synaptic integrity on Alzheimer's 
disease risk in women.

Wood Alexander M(1)(2), Honer WG(3), Saloner R(4), Galea LAM(5)(6)(7), Bennett 
DA(8), Rabin JS(1)(2)(9)(10)(11), Casaletto KB(4).

Author information:
(1)Hurvitz Brain Sciences Program, Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(2)Rehabilitation Sciences Institute, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada.
(4)Memory and Aging Center, Department of Neurology, Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(6)Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, The Centre for Addition and 
Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(9)Centre for Brain Resilience and Recovery, Hurvitz Brain Sciences Program, 
Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(10)Division of Neurology, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, Sunnybrook Health 
Sciences Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(11)Harquail Centre for Neuromodulation, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

Menopause is a major biological transition that may influence women's late-life 
brain health. Earlier estrogen depletion-via earlier menopause-has been 
associated with increased risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Synaptic 
dysfunction also incites and exacerbates AD progression. We investigated whether 
age at menopause and synaptic health together influence AD neuropathology and 
cognitive trajectories using clinical and autopsy data from 268 female decedents 
in the Rush Memory and Aging Project. We observed significant interactions 
between age at menopause and synaptic integrity on cognitive decline and tau 
tangles, such that earlier menopause strengthened the associations of reduced 
synaptic integrity with faster cognitive decline and elevated tau. Exploratory 
analyses showed that these relationships were attenuated in women who took 
menopausal hormone therapy. These findings suggest that midlife endocrine 
processes or their sequalae may influence synaptic vulnerability to AD. 
Interventions addressing both hormonal factors and synaptic health could enhance 
resilience to dementia in women.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adt0757
PMCID: PMC11881898
PMID: 40043118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Mar 3;8(3):e250096. doi:
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.0096.

Physical Activity, Alzheimer Plasma Biomarkers, and Cognition.

Kim SA(1)(2), Shin D(3), Ham H(3)(4)(5)(6), Kim Y(7), Gu Y(3)(8), Kim 
HJ(3)(4)(8)(5), Na DL(3)(9), Zetterberg H(10)(11)(12)(13)(14)(15), Blennow 
K(10)(11)(16)(17), Seo SW(3)(4)(8)(5)(6), Jang H(1)(2); Precision Medicine 
Platform for Mild Cognitive Impairment Based on Multi-omics, Imaging, 
Evidence-Based R&BD (PREMIER) Consortium.

Collaborators: Seo SW, Na DL, Jang H, Kim Y, Han SH, Seong J, Choi JK, Lee ES, 
Chin J, Kim CH, Kim HJ, Bok H, Kang SH, Kim Y, Kim SE, Kim HR, Jung NY, Kim SJ, 
Na S, Kim GH, Kim KW, Lee JS, Cho H, Kim YJ, Cho SH, Kim BC, Lee DY, Moon SY, 
Byun MS, Jung G, Yi D, Lee HN, Jang JW, Jeong JH, Jung YH, Kim JH, Noh Y, Yang 
H, Ha Y, Shin HE, Kang K, Eom S, Shin KY, Kim Y, Jang J, Yoon C, Lee DK, Ham H, 
Park YH, Kim SJ, Byun B, Choi Y, Lee NK, Won HH, Cho M, Jung SH, Lee DH, Kim B, 
Seo J, Cheon BK, Kim Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(2)Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Department of Digital Health, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(6)Department of Intelligent Precision Healthcare Convergence, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Suwon, South Korea.
(7)Department of Neurology, Kangwon National University College of Medicine, 
Chuncheon, South Korea.
(8)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Seoul, South Korea.
(9)Happymid Clinic, Seoul, South Korea.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(11)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(12)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, University College London Institute 
of Neurology, Queen Square, London, United Kingdom.
(13)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(14)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison.
(16)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(17)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, China.

IMPORTANCE: Physical activity (PA) is a nonpharmacological intervention for 
dementia prevention. The association between PA and Alzheimer disease (AD) 
plasma biomarkers remains underexplored.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the associations among PA; plasma biomarkers, 
including β-amyloid 42/40 (Aβ42/40), phosphorylated-tau217 (ptau217), glial 
fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and neurofilament light chain (NfL); and 
cognition.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cross-sectional study included 
participants with and without cognitive impairment recruited from multiple 
memory clinics in South Korea between May 2019 and May 2022. Data were analyzed 
from June to December 2024.
EXPOSURES: PA was assessed as metabolic equivalent task minutes per week using 
the International Physical Activity Questionnaire and categorized into quartiles 
from the lowest (Q1) to the highest (Q4).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Plasma Aβ42/40, ptau217, GFAP, and NfL were 
measured. Cognition was assessed using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) 
and Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB).
RESULTS: Among 1144 participants (mean [SD] age 70.9 [8.7] years; 744 [65.0%] 
female), the highest PA quartile showed significantly lower ptau217 (estimate 
[SE], -0.14 [0.06]; P = .01) and NfL (estimate [SE], -0.12 [0.05]; P = .01) 
compared with the lowest quartile. Higher PA quartiles were associated with 
higher MMSE scores (estimate [SE]: Q2, 0.93 [0.31]; P = .003; Q3, 0.82 [0.32]; 
P = .009; Q4, 0.94 [0.32]; P = .004) and lower CDR-SB scores (estimate [SE]: Q2, 
-0.33 [0.16]; P = .04; Q3, -0.37 [0.16]; P = .02; Q4, -0.55 [0.16]; P = .001) 
after adjusting for age, sex, education years, and β-amyloid uptake. In subgroup 
analyses according to age and cognitive status, the associations of PA and 
plasma biomarkers with cognition were more pronounced in the older (age ≥65 
years) and cognitively impaired groups compared with the younger and cognitively 
unimpaired groups.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These findings suggest that PA may help delay 
cognitive decline by modulating neurodegeneration and AD-specific tau 
pathologies. However, the cross-sectional design limits causal inference, and 
longitudinal studies are needed to confirm and clarify these associations.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.0096
PMCID: PMC11883494
PMID: 40042844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Zetterberg 
reported receiving personal fees from AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzecure, 
Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, 
Fujirebio, LabCorp, Lilly, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, 
Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, 
Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, Wave, and WebMD and 
serving as cofounder and owning stock in Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg 
AB outside the submitted work. Dr Blennow reported serving as a consultant or on 
advisory boards for AbbVie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, Beckman-Coulter, 
BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte Ltd, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono 
Pharma, Prothena, Quanterix, Roche Diagnostics, Sanofi, and Siemens 
Healthineers; serving on data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and 
Novartis; receiving personal fees from AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, 
Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; and serving as a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB outside the work presented in this paper. No other 
disclosures were reported.


59. Neurochem Res. 2025 Mar 5;50(2):114. doi: 10.1007/s11064-025-04365-3.

Ferulago angulata Extract Protects against Beta-amyloid-induced Memory 
Impairment Through Modulation of Monoaminoxidase Enzymes in the Rat's 
Hippocampus.

Mashhadi-Sharif N(1), Soodi M(2)(3), Mirnajafi-Zadeh J(4), Shadboorestan A(1), 
Ebadi-Ramsheh H(1), Bakhtiarzadeh F(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Toxicology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran. soodi@modares.ac.ir.
(3)Institute for natural products and medicinal plants, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran. soodi@modares.ac.ir.
(4)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.

Ferulago angulata, a medicinal plant of the Apiaceae family, is known for its 
antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic, and neuroprotective effects. 
This study investigated the protective potential of F. angulata total extract 
against memory impairment induced by amyloid β-peptide (Aβ25-35) in rats. 
Aβ25-35 was bilaterally administered into the CA1 region of the hippocampus in 
male Wistar rats for four consecutive days. Starting from the first surgery day, 
rats received oral treatment with F. angulata extract (400 mg/kg) or 
Rivastigmine (1.5 mg/kg) for 16 consecutive days. Morris water maze tests 
conducted from days 14 to 17 evaluated the learning and memory performance, 
followed by biochemical and molecular assays on isolated hippocampi. F. angulata 
extract significantly reversed Aβ-induced deficits in learning and memory. In 
the Aβ group, monoamine oxidase A and B enzyme activities and gene expression 
increased, along with elevated acetylcholinesterase gene expression but 
decreased enzyme activity compared to the control group. Treatment with F. 
angulata extract mitigated all these abnormalities. Safety assessments revealed 
no alterations in blood biochemistry or histology following F. angulata extract 
treatment. In conclusion, our findings suggest that F. angulata extract 
possesses neuroprotective properties, and ameliorates Aβ-induced memory deficits 
by modulating monoamine oxidase enzyme activity and acetylcholinesterase levels 
without significant adverse effects. Thus, this safe herbal extract shows 
promise for further exploration in Alzheimer's disease research and potential 
therapeutic interventions.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-025-04365-3
PMID: 40042687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: This study was 
approved by the ethics committee of the Tarbiat Modares University 
(IR.MODARES.REC.1400.088). Competing Interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


60. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70034. doi: 10.1002/alz.70034.

Calcineurin inhibition may prevent Alzheimer disease in people with Down 
syndrome.

Dohl J(1), Treadwell Z(1), Norris C(2), Head E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, University of California, 
Irvine, California, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology & Nutrition Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, 
University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, USA.

Virtually all people with Down syndrome will develop Alzheimer disease pathology 
during their lifetime. As Alzheimer disease is the third leading cause of death 
and a significant factor in end-of-life complications for adults with Down 
syndrome, identifying interventions is a medical necessity. Calcineurin, a 
Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, has recently been investigated as 
a possible Alzheimer treatment. This review explores the histories behind Down 
syndrome and Alzheimer disease, and their intersecting pathologies. This is 
followed by the role that calcineurin and its U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration-approved pharmacological inhibitor, tacrolimus, may play in the 
prevention or treatment of Alzheimer disease. Finally, this review discusses the 
gap in the literature surrounding the role of calcineurin, its regulators, and 
calcineurin inhibitors in the context of Down syndrome and comorbid Alzheimer 
disease. Future studies investigating the role that calcineurin plays in this 
pathology will be essential in determining the viability of calcineurin 
inhibitors to treat Alzheimer disease in people with Down syndrome. HIGHLIGHTS: 
Calcineurin, a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, has become 
prominent as a possible therapeutic target to treat Alzheimer disease. People 
with Down syndrome develop Alzheimer pathology as they age, requiring novel 
therapeutics for treatment. People with Down syndrome may exhibit 
contraindications to calcineurin inhibition-based therapy, as they overexpress 
RCAN1 and DYRK1A, regulators of calcineurin. There is a significant gap in the 
literature involving the expression of calcineurin, RCAN1 and DYRK1A, in people 
with Down syndrome and Alzheimer disease, which must be addressed to determine 
the efficacy and safety of newly developed therapeutics.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70034
PMCID: PMC11881635
PMID: 40042516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.61. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e14628. doi: 10.1002/alz.14628.

Parkinsonism in Alzheimer's disease without Lewy bodies in association with 
nigral neuron loss: A data-driven clinicopathologic study.

Ono D(1), Sekiya H(1), Maier AR(1), Murray ME(1)(2), Koga S(1)(3), Dickson 
DW(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, 
Florida, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Hospital of the University 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Parkinsonism in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is often 
attributed to Lewy-related pathology, given its high comorbidity. In the era of 
anti-amyloid therapy, recognizing parkinsonism caused by AD pathology is needed 
to optimize the treatment.
METHODS: This study aimed to quantitatively characterize parkinsonism and nigral 
neuropathology in AD without Lewy bodies (LB). Nigral neurons were counted 
automatically. Fine-tuned ChatGPT collected structured clinical data.
RESULTS: Among 635 AD patients without LB, 62 (9.7%) presented parkinsonism, 
which correlated with reduced nigral neuron density (p < 0.01). Tau burden did 
not explain the nigral neuronal loss. TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) 
pathology correlated with reduced nigral pigmented neuron density (p = 0.03).
DISCUSSION: Our findings suggest that parkinsonism in AD without LB is related 
to nigral neuronal loss in association with TDP-43 pathology. Recognition of 
parkinsonism in AD without LB is crucial for appropriate therapy.
HIGHLIGHTS: One in 10 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients without Lewy bodies had 
parkinsonism. Parkinsonism in AD was correlated with reduced nigral neuron 
density. TAR DNA-binding protein 43 pathology was associated with nigral 
degeneration in AD. AD should be included in the differential diagnosis of 
dementia with parkinsonism.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14628
PMCID: PMC11881629
PMID: 40042515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


62. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70045. doi: 10.1002/alz.70045.

Predicted natural progression as an Alzheimer's prognostic covariate improves 
the precision of lecanemab efficacy assessments and clinical trial efficiency.

Devanarayan V(1)(2), Ye Y(1), Zhu L(1), Tian L(3), Kramer L(1), Irizarry M(1), 
Dhadda S(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Evidence Generation, Eisai Inc., Nutley, New Jersey, USA.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science, University of 
Illinois Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Data Science, Stanford University, Stanford, 
California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Heterogeneity in Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression introduces 
variability in treatment effect assessments. Using predicted future progression 
as an AD prognostic covariate (APC) may reduce this variability. This study 
evaluates this strategy in lecanemab trials and its implications for AD trial 
design.
METHODS: Two APCs were derived at baseline for each trial participant from 
published models with historical controls: one with clinical features, the other 
adding structural MRI features. Their impact on estimating the difference in 
cognitive decline between the treatment and placebo arms and the time saved from 
delayed progression (TSDP) was assessed.
RESULTS: Incorporating either APC reduced variance estimates by up to 19.1% 
across phase II and phase III trials, increased power to 90.2%, and reduced 
sample size by 27.2%. These APCs improved treatment effect estimates and TSDP, 
demonstrating broad applicability across endpoints.
DISCUSSION: APCs enhance treatment effect evaluation, improve statistical power, 
and reduce required sample sizes in Alzheimer's trials.
GOV IDENTIFIERS: NCT01767311 (Lecanemab Study 201), NCT03887455 (Lecanemab Study 
301; ClarityAD).
HIGHLIGHTS: Baseline prediction of future progression can serve as an APC for 
treatment effect assessments. These predictions can be derived from progression 
models developed using external controls. APC accounts for heterogeneity in 
progression among trial participants, improving treatment effect estimates. 
Enhanced accuracy and precision were observed across lecanemab phase II and 
phase III trials for various endpoints. This approach results in substantial 
increase in statistical power and reduced sample size for future AD trials.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70045
PMCID: PMC11881612
PMID: 40042496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: V.D., Y.Y., L.Z., L.K., M.I., and S.D. are 
employees of Eisai Inc. There are no competing disclosures to report for L.T. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


63. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70054. doi: 10.1002/alz.70054.

Demographic and clinical characteristics of initial patients receiving 
amyloid-targeting treatments in the United States after regulatory approval.

Mattke S(1), Yue S(1), Becker A(1), Liu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)The USC Brain Health Observatory, USC Dornsife, Los Angeles, California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Three treatments for Alzheimer's disease have been approved in the 
United States. Data are lacking on the characteristics of the initial treatment 
recipients.
METHODS: We identified treatment recipients in the full Medicare fee-for-service 
data for 2021 to 2023. We compared their age, sex, race/ethnicity, dual 
eligibility, comorbidities, and median household income and educational 
attainment in their residence's ZIP Code Tabulation Area (ZCTA) to those of the 
overall Medicare population aged 65+.
RESULTS: Treated patients were more likely to be non-Hispanic White (89% vs 82%) 
and less likely to be dually eligible (1% vs 8.8%). Average median household 
income ($97,136 vs $84,449) and proportion of residents with at least a 
bachelor's degree (41% vs 31%) were higher in treated patients' ZCTAs.
DISCUSSION: The first patients receiving amyloid-targeting treatment represent a 
more privileged subset. While needing to be confirmed with more data, these 
results point to the need for efforts to make access more equitable.
HIGHLIGHTS: Little is known about the initial 924 patients receiving 
amyloid-targeting treatments in the United States from 2021 to 2023. They were 
more likely to be White and less likely to be dually eligible than the Medicare 
population. They resided in wealthier and more highly educated areas. 
Comorbidity burden was similar to that observed in clinical trials. Those 
initial results point to the need to improve equitable access to treatment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70054
PMCID: PMC11881614
PMID: 40042495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Outside of the submitted work, USC has research 
agreements, on which Dr. Mattke is the principal investigator, with Biogen, C2N, 
Eli Lilly, Eisai, and Roche/Genentech. Dr. Mattke serves on the board of 
directors of Senscio Systems and the scientific advisory boards of ALZpath and 
Boston Millennia Partners. He has received consulting and/or speaker fees from 
Biogen, C2N Diagnostics, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, and 
Genentech/Roche. Selena Yue is a contract employee of Pfizer. The other authors 
report no conflicts. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


64. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e14602. doi: 10.1002/alz.14602.

Exploring epidemiological risk factors for cerebral amyloid angiopathy: 
Considerations for monoclonal antibody therapy in people with Alzheimer's 
disease.

Ma L(1)(2), Wang Y(1)(2), Huynh ALH(3)(4), Amadoru S(3)(4), Wrigley S(3), Yates 
P(3)(4), Masters CL(1), Goudey B(2)(5), Jin L(1)(2), Pan Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.
(2)Florey Department of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Department of Aged Care, Austin Health, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Medicine, Austin Health, The University of Melbourne, 
Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia.
(5)The ARC Training Centre in Cognitive Computing for Medical Technologies, The 
University of Melbourne, Carlton, Victoria, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) increases the risk of 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients 
receiving anti-amyloid-beta therapies, emphasizing the need to identify its risk 
factors.
METHODS: Data were collected from three cohort studies, and a machine learning 
model was developed to predict CAA occurrence using the selected risk factors.
RESULTS: The AD neuropathologic changes (ADNC)-CAA association was significantly 
positive in the cross-sectional analysis. When stratified by selected risk 
factors, this association was generally stronger among females, smokers, people 
with a history of stroke/memory complaints, apolipoprotein E (APOE)-ε4 carriers, 
and those without diabetes/heart conditions. In the longitudinal analysis of the 
association between potential risk factors and CAA, a higher risk of CAA was 
observed among males, older individuals, smokers, people with diabetes/heart 
conditions, lower Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores, and APOE-ε4 
carriers compared to their respective reference groups.
DISCUSSION: Our study identified risk factors for cerebral amyloid angiopathy, 
informing potential prevention strategies.
HIGHLIGHTS: ADNC were significantly positively associated with the risk of CAA. 
The ADNC-CAA association was generally stronger among females, smokers, people 
with a history of stroke/memory complaints, APOE-ε4 carriers, and those without 
diabetes or heart conditions. Longitudinally, higher CAA risk was observed among 
males, older individuals, smokers, people with diabetes/heart conditions/lower 
MMSE scores, and APOE-ε4 carriers compared to their reference groups.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14602
PMCID: PMC11881626
PMID: 40042470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts to report (None 
declared). Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


65. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e14622. doi: 10.1002/alz.14622.

Burden and care time for dementia caregivers in the LIVE@Home.Path trial.

Berge LI(1)(2), Angeles RC(1)(3), Gedde MH(1)(4), Fæø SE(5), Mannseth J(6), 
Vislapuu M(1)(5), Søyland Puaschitz NG(1)(5)(7), Hillestad E(1)(8), Aarsland 
D(9), Achterberg WP(10), Allore H(11)(12), Ballard C(13), Li F(12)(14), Selbæk 
G(15)(16)(17), Vahia IV(18)(19), Husebo BS(1)(20).

Author information:
(1)Center for Elderly and Nursing Home Medicine, Department of Global Public 
Health and Primary Care, Faculty of Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, 
Norway.
(2)NKS Olaviken Gerontopsychiatric Hospital, Erdal, Norway.
(3)NORCE Norwegian Research Centre, Bergen, Norway.
(4)Haraldsplass Deaconess Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(5)Faculty of Health Studies, Department of Nursing, VID Specialized University, 
Bergen, Norway.
(6)Section for Epidemiology and Medical Statistic, Department of Global Public 
Health and Primary Care, Faculty of Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, 
Norway.
(7)Western Norway University of Applied Sciences, Bergen, Norway.
(8)The Dignity Centre, Bergen, Norway.
(9)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College, London, 
UK.
(10)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Center for Medicine for Older 
People, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Yale University, New 
Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(12)Department of Biostatistics, Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.
(13)University of Exeter Medical School, Exeter, UK.
(14)Center for Methods in Implementation and Prevention Science, Yale School of 
Public Health, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(15)Norwegian National Advisory Unit on Ageing and Health, Vestfold Hospital 
Trust, Tønsberg, Norway.
(16)Institute of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway.
(17)Geriatric Department, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(18)McLean Hospital, Belmont, Massachusetts, USA.
(19)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(20)Neuro-SysMed Center, Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, 
University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.

INTRODUCTION: We investigated the effectiveness of the multicomponent learning, 
innovation, volunteer support, empowerment (LIVE) intervention on caregiver 
burden and care time in dyads of home-dwelling people with dementia and 
caregivers.
METHOD: A 24 month, multicenter, stepped-wedge trial, randomized dyads to 
receive the 6-month LIVE intervention by municipal coordinators (May 2019 to 
December 2021). Primary outcomes were caregiver burden assessed by Relative 
Stress Scale (RSS) and informal care time spent on personal activities assessed 
by Resource Utilization in Dementia Personal Activities of Daily Living 
(RUD-PADL). Analyses used an intention-to-treat.
RESULTS: Two hundred eighty dyads were enrolled. Caregivers during the 
intervention period reported lower levels of RSS of 0.7 points (standard 
deviation [SD]: 0.8) compared to the caregivers in the control period. 
Caregivers during the intervention period reported more time spent on PADL of 
11.7 hours/month (SD: 8.7) compared to caregivers during the control period; 
both were not statistically significant (P > 0.05).
DISCUSSION: The LIVE intervention did not reduce caregiver burden or care time.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04043364.
HIGHLIGHTS: Two hundred eighty persons with dementia and caregivers were 
included in a stepped wedge randomized controlled trial. We used the learning, 
innovation, volunteer support, empowerment (LIVE) intervention. The LIVE 
intervention did not reduce caregiver burden or informal care time. The LIVE 
intervention improved the caregiver's clinical global impression of change. 
Positive change was most pronounced for coordinator personalized support.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14622
PMCID: PMC11881633
PMID: 40042468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Ballard reports personal fees from Johnson 
and Johnson, Novo Nordisk, ReMynd, Acadia, AARP, Addex, Eli Lilly, GW Pharma, 
BMS, Janssen, Orion, Sunovion, Suven, Roche, Biogen, and TauRx. Dr. Selbæk 
reports honoraria for lectures at symposia sponsored by Eisai and Eli‐Lilly and 
has participated on advisory boards for Eli‐Lilly, Eisai, and Roche regarding 
disease‐modifying treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Dr. Aarsland reports grants 
from Roche Diagnostics, consulting fees from Roche Diagnostics, Eisai, Eli 
Lilly, and GSK. All other authors have no interests to disclose. Author 
disclosures are available in the supporting information.


66. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e14528. doi: 10.1002/alz.14528.

Considerations in the clinical use of amyloid PET and CSF biomarkers for 
Alzheimer's disease.

Leuzy A(1)(2)(3)(4), Bollack A(5)(6), Pellegrino D(7), Teunissen CE(8), La Joie 
R(9), Rabinovici GD(9)(10), Franzmeier N(3)(11)(12), Johnson K(13)(14), Barkhof 
F(15)(16)(17), Shaw LM(18), Arkhipenko A(19), Schindler SE(20), Honig LS(21), 
Moscoso Rial A(2)(3)(22), Schöll M(2)(3)(4)(23), Zetterberg 
H(3)(24)(25)(26)(27)(28), Blennow K(3)(24)(29)(30), Hansson O(1)(31), Farrar 
G(5).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(2)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)The Sahlgrenska Academy, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Department 
of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Region Västra 
Götaland, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)The Grove Centre, White Lion Road Buckinghamshire, GE HealthCare, Amersham, 
UK.
(6)Department of Medical Physics and Bioengineering, Centre for Medical Image 
Computing (CMIC), University College London, London, UK.
(7)Pharmaceutical Diagnostics, GE HealthCare, Via Privata Galeno, Milan, Italy.
(8)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam UMC Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(9)Department of Neurology, Memory and Aging Center, Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California, USA.
(10)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(11)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research (ISD), University Hospital, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(12)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(13)Gordon Center for Medical Imaging, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(14)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(15)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(16)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Brain imaging, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(17)UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology and Center for Medical Image 
Computing, University College London, London, UK.
(18)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(19)Pharmaceutical Diagnostics, GE HealthCare, Marlborough, Massachusetts, USA.
(20)Department of Neurology, Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(21)Department of Neurology, Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease 
and Aging Brain, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York, 
USA.
(22)Nuclear Medicine Department and Molecular Imaging Group, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria de Santiago de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela, 
Spain.
(23)Dementia Research Centre, Institute of Neurology, University College London, 
London, UK.
(24)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(25)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(26)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, UK.
(27)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Science Park, Hong Kong, 
China.
(28)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(29)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(30)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, China.
(31)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.

Amyloid-β (Aβ) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) biomarkers are now established tools in the diagnostic workup of 
patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and their use is anticipated to increase 
with the introduction of new disease-modifying therapies. Although these 
biomarkers are comparable alternatives in research settings to determine Aβ 
status, biomarker testing in clinical practice requires careful consideration of 
the strengths and limitations of each modality, as well as the specific clinical 
context, to identify which test is best suited for each patient. This article 
provides a comprehensive review of the pathologic processes reflected by Aβ-PET 
and CSF biomarkers, their performance, and their current and future applications 
and contexts of use. The primary aim is to assist clinicians in making 
better-informed decisions about the suitability of each biomarker in different 
clinical situations, thereby reducing the risk of misdiagnosis or incorrect 
interpretation of biomarker results. HIGHLIGHTS: Recent advances have positioned 
Aβ PET and CSF biomarkers as pivotal in AD diagnosis. It is crucial to 
understand the differences in the clinical use of these biomarkers. A team of 
experts reviewed the state of Aβ PET and CSF markers in clinical settings. 
Differential features in the clinical application of these biomarkers were 
reviewed. We discussed the role of Aβ PET and CSF in the context of novel plasma 
biomarkers.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14528
PMCID: PMC11881640
PMID: 40042435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in 
symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, and Roche, and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). G.D.R. has received grant support (to his institution) 
from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, GE Healthcare, Life Molecular Imaging, and 
Genentech. He has served on scientific advisory boards for Alector, Eli Lilly, 
and Merck. He serves on a data safety monitoring board for Johnson & Johnson. He 
is an Associate Editor for JAMA Neurology. O.H. has acquired research support 
(for the institution) from AVID Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, C2N Diagnostics, 
Eli Lilly, Eisai, Fujirebio, GE Healthcare, and Roche. In the past 2 years, he 
has received consultancy/speaker fees from Alzpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol 
Meyer Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, 
Sanofi and Siemens. A.L. serves as a consultant to Enigma Biomedical Group. 
A.B., D.P., A.A., and G.F. are full‐time employees of GE Healthcare. The other 
authors did not report any conflict of interest. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information.


67. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2025 Aug 1;57(8):1657-1668. doi: 
10.1249/MSS.0000000000003696. Epub 2025 Mar 5.

Exercise Rescues Blood-Brain Barrier Structural Impairment and Enhances 
Mitochondrial Biogenesis in a Hypertensive Mouse Model.

Chang YS, Lee CW(1), Lin HC, Hu WE(2), Lin CL, Wu YT, Shih YH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, National Tainan Junior College of Nursing, Tainan, 
TAIWAN.
(2)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Sanmin District, Kaohsiung, TAIWAN.

PURPOSE: Blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction is implicated in various 
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal 
dementia. Over the past decades, numerous studies have suggested that exercise 
can mitigate neurodegenerative processes by improving mitochondrial function. 
Recently, we demonstrated that exercise could reverse hippocampus-associated 
memory deficits and reduce BBB leakage in a modified two-kidney, one-clip (2K1C) 
hypertensive animal model. Based on these findings, we hypothesize that exercise 
restores BBB integrity in hypertensive animal models.
METHODS: Hypertension was induced in C57BL/6 mice via 2K1C surgery. After 3 wk 
of hypertension induction, mice underwent moderate-intensity treadmill exercise 
for 5 wk. Subsequently, brain tissues were collected for immunofluorescence 
staining and immunoblotting analyses to assess changes in BBB structure and 
mitochondria-related protein expression.
RESULTS: Exercise restored hypertension-induced reductions in blood vessel 
density within the hippocampus. Additionally, it repaired BBB structural 
impairments, as evidenced by increased levels of Claudin-5 colocalization with 
blood vessels, enhanced perivascular astrocyte levels, and improved perivascular 
AQP-4 protein expression. An immunoblotting analysis revealed that exercise 
upregulated the PGC-1α/Nrf1/UCP-2 pathway in the 2K1C hypertensive model. 
However, exercise did not significantly affect Drp-1 expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Exercise alleviates BBB leakage by restoring structural integrity 
to the BBB. These improvements may be mediated through the enhancement of 
mitochondrial biogenesis.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American College of Sports Medicine.

DOI: 10.1249/MSS.0000000000003696
PMID: 40042228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Med Food. 2025 Mar;28(3):232-242. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2024.k.0160. Epub 2025
Mar  5.

Rosa Roxburghii Tratt Polysaccharides Prevent Alzheimer's Disease-Like Cognitive 
Dysfunctions and Pathology in Rats by Regulating the Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis 
and Oxidative Stress.

Yin M(1), Peng J(1), Chen M(1), Zhan Q(1), Zhong H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The Key Laboratory of Environmental Pollution 
Monitoring and Disease Control, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, China.

The microbial-gut-brain axis and oxidative stress may be important to the 
pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Rosa roxburghii Tratt polysaccharides 
(RRTP) have a strong antioxidant effect and can affect the gut microbiota, and 
whether it can affect AD is unknown. So, AlCl3 and d-galactose were used to 
establish AD model rats, and RRTP was used as an intervention treatment. Morris 
water maze test was used to detect cognitive functions. The hippocampus was used 
to observe the pathological changes, and the cortex was used to measure 
antioxidant markers. The stool was collected for 16S rDNA sequencing. Morris 
water maze test showed that the learning ability and memory level of AD group 
rats were decreased, and RRTP intervention could mitigate the injury to a 
certain extent. In the AD group, hematoxylin-eosin staining revealed changes in 
the morphology of neurons, silver glycine staining revealed neurofibrillary 
tangles and Congo red staining revealed β-amyloid. RRTP could ameliorate the 
above changes to some extent. The results of superoxide dismutase, 
malondialdehyde, and glutathione peroxidase showed that the antioxidant capacity 
in the RRTP intervention group was significantly higher than that in the AD 
group. 16S rDNA sequencing results showed that there were differences in the 
species composition of gut microbiota, and the ratio of Firmicutes to 
Bacteroidetes in the AD group was decreased. After RRTP intervention, the 
proportion of Lactobacillus increased. In conclusion, RRTP may prevent AD 
pathology and cognitive functions in rats to a certain extent through the 
microbiota-gut-brain axis and oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2024.k.0160
PMID: 40042065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Acta Pharm Sin B. 2025 Jan;15(1):371-391. doi: 10.1016/j.apsb.2024.11.010.
Epub  2024 Nov 26.

Drofenine as a Kv2.1 inhibitor alleviated AD-like pathology in mice through 
Aβ/Kv2.1/microglial NLRP3/neuronal Tau axis.

Lu J(1), Zhou Q(2), Zhu D(3), Song H(1), Xie G(1), Zhao X(1), Huang Y(1), Cao 
P(2)(4), Wang J(1), Shen X(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, 
China.
(2)Jiangsu Provincial Medical Innovation Center, Affiliated Hospital of 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, China.
(3)School of Integrative Medicine, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Nanjing 210023, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory on Technologies for Chinese Medicine Pharmaceutical 
Process Control and Intelligent Manufacture, Nanjing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Nanjing 210023, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease with clinical hallmarks 
of progressive cognitive impairment. Synergistic effects of the Aβ-Tau cascade 
reaction are tightly implicated in AD pathology, and microglial NLRP3 
inflammasome activation drives neuronal tauopathy. However, the underlying 
mechanism of how Aβ mediates NLRP3 inflammasome remains unclear. Herein, we 
determined that oligomeric Aβ (o-Aβ) bound to microglial Kv2.1 and promoted 
Kv2.1-dependent potassium efflux to activate NLRP3 inflammasome resulting in 
neuronal tauopathy by using Kv2.1 inhibitor drofenine (Dfe) as a probe. The 
underlying mechanism has been intensively investigated by assays with Kv2.1 
knockdown in vitro (si-Kv2.1) and in vivo (AAV-ePHP-si-Kv2.1). Dfe deprived o-Aβ 
of its capability to promote microglial NLRP3 inflammasome activation and 
neuronal Tau hyperphosphorylation by inhibiting the Kv2.1/JNK/NF-κB pathway 
while improving the cognitive impairment of 5×FAD-AD model mice. Our results 
have highly addressed that the Kv2.1 channel is required for o-Aβ-driven 
microglial NLRP3 inflammasome activation and neuronal tauopathy in AD model mice 
and highlighted that Dfe as a Kv2.1 inhibitor shows potential in the treatment 
of AD.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apsb.2024.11.010
PMCID: PMC11873626
PMID: 40041886

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


70. RSC Adv. 2025 Mar 4;15(9):6994-7003. doi: 10.1039/d5ra00488h. eCollection
2025  Feb 26.

Discovery of novel theophylline derivatives bearing tetrazole scaffold for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Hung NV(1)(2), Quoc Tien L(1), Hai Linh VN(1), Tran H(1), Nguyen TK(1), Pham 
DV(1), Hoang VH(3), Hien TTT(4), Nguyen TX(5), Thai QM(6)(7), Nguyen TH(6)(7), 
Ngo ST(6)(7), Tran PT(1).

Author information:
(1)Hanoi University of Pharmacy 13-15 Le Thanh Tong Hanoi 11021 Vietnam 
thaotp119@gmail.com/thaotp@hup.edu.vn.
(2)Hanoi University of Mining and Geology 18 Vien, Bac Tu Liem Hanoi 11910 
Vietnam.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, PHENIKAA University Hanoi 12116 Vietnam.
(4)Vietnam University of Traditional Medicine 2 Tran Phu, Ha Dong Hanoi 100000 
Vietnam.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, Viet-Duc University Hospital Hanoi 100000 
Vietnam.
(6)Laboratory of Biophysics, Institute of Advanced Study in Technology, Ton Duc 
Thang University Ho Chi Minh City 72915 Vietnam.
(7)Faculty of Pharmacy, Ton Duc Thang University Ho Chi Minh City 72915 Vietnam.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with AChE and BACE1 enzymes. Designing 
inhibitors for preventing these enzymes can be benefit for AD treatment. In this 
context, theophylline derivatives were generated to prevent the biological 
activity of AChE and BACE1. In particular, the potential inhibitory of these 
compounds was rapidly and accurately estimated via knowledge-methods. The in 
vitro tests were then performed to validate the artificial intelligent approach. 
Among these, compound 12 exhibited the most potent AChE inhibition with an IC50 
of 15.68 μM, while showing limited activity against BACE1. In addition, six 
compounds were indicated that are able to inhibit AChE, however, the 
theophylline derivatives play poor performance over the BACE1 target. Atomistic 
simulations were finally applied to clarify the ligand-binding mechanism to the 
biological target. The outcomes disclose that theophylline derivatives rigidly 
form van der Waals interactions to AChE via π-stacking and SC contacts. Overall, 
the theophylline derivatives may offer a potential scaffold for novel anti-AD 
agents.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d5ra00488h
PMCID: PMC11877286
PMID: 40041377

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts to declare.


71. Adv Pharmacol Pharm Sci. 2025 Feb 24;2025:3536898. doi: 10.1155/adpp/3536898.
 eCollection 2025.

Phytochemical Analysis and Pharmaceutical Applications of Monoterpenoids Present 
in the Essential Oil of Boswellia sacra (Omani Luban).

Khan F(1), Rashan L(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Center, Biodiversity Unit, Dhofar University, Salalah, Oman.

Due to its intricacy and long-term usefulness, traditional medicine continues to 
be practiced in several nations. Among the many medicinal plants found in the 
Dhofar region of Oman, the aromatic oleo-gum resin generated by Boswellia sacra, 
commonly referred to as frankincense, stands out for its medical and commercial 
significance. Resin-carrying ducts are unique to members of the Boswellia 
family. Boswellia sacra Flueck is one of the 29 species in the genus Boswellia 
(Burseraceae) and has long been cultivated for its aromatic gums and resins for 
use as incense. In addition to the resins (60%-80% alcohol soluble), gums 
(15%-20% water soluble), and essential oil (5%-7%), other components, including 
polysaccharides and polymeric compounds, also exist in smaller amounts. 
Physiochemical analyses indicate that Boswellia resin oil is made up of 42.5% 
diterpenes, 13.1% monoterpenes, and 1% sesquiterpenes. Traditional medicine 
makes extensive use of frankincense for the treatment of stomach diseases, 
Alzheimer's disease, and hepatic illnesses. The bioactive chemicals present in 
frankincense, particularly boswellic acids, are plentiful. The current review 
examines various compounds present in different species of Boswellia, especially 
Boswellia sacra, along with their structure.

Copyright © 2025 Foziya Khan and Luay Rashan. Advances in Pharmacological and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1155/adpp/3536898
PMCID: PMC11876528
PMID: 40040632

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


72. PM R. 2025 May;17(5):563-566. doi: 10.1002/pmrj.13332. Epub 2025 Mar 5.

Prevention of concussion and long-term effects of repetitive traumatic brain 
injury: Unanimous consensus from the Cantu Concussion Summit.

Cantu RC(1)(2)(3)(4), Sills AK(5)(6), Alosco ML(7)(8), Arbogast KB(9)(10), 
Bazarian JJ(11), Bieniek KF(12), Crandall JR(13)(14), Iverson GL(15)(16), Katz 
DI(17)(18), Keene CD(19), Leddy JJ(20)(21), Mack CD(22)(23), McKee AC(24)(25), 
Meehan WP(26)(27), Mez J(7), Nowinski CJ(28)(29), Okonkwo DO(30)(31), Solomon 
GS(5)(32), Stein TD(33), Tartaglia MC(34), Zafonte RD(35)(36), Daneshvar 
DH(16)(37).

Author information:
(1)Cantu Concussion Center, Emerson Hospital, Emerson, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Head, Neck, and Spine Committee, National Football League, New York, New 
York, USA.
(4)Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy Center, Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Neurological Surgery, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA.
(6)National Football League, New York, New York, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(8)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian 
School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Center for Injury Research and Prevention, Children's Hospital of 
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(10)Pediatrics and R. Anderson Pew Endowed Chair, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(11)Emergency Medicine and Neurology, University of Rochester School of Medicine 
and Dentistry, Rochester, New York, USA.
(12)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Texas Health San Antonio, San Antonio, 
Texas, USA.
(13)Biocore LLC, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(14)Engineering and Applied Sciences, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, 
Virginia, USA.
(15)Mass General for Children Sports Concussion Program, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(16)Division of Brain Injury Rehabilitation, Department of Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitaiton, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(17)Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(18)Brain Injury Program, Encompass Health Braintree Rehabilitation Hospital, 
Braintree, Massachusetts, USA.
(19)Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Nancy and Buster Alvord Endowed Chair and 
Neuropathology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, 
Washington, USA.
(20)Concussion Management Clinic, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York, USA.
(21)Orthopaedics and of Rehabilitation Medicine, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, 
New York, USA.
(22)IQVIA Real World Solutions, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(23)Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(24)Department of Pathology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(25)Boston Healthcare System, Department of Veterans Affairs, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(26)Micheli Center for Sports Injury Prevention, Boston Children's Hospital, 
Waltham, MA, USA.
(27)Pediatrics and Orthopedics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(28)Concussion Legacy Foundation, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(29)Boston University CTE Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(30)Neurological Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(31)Neurotrauma Clinical Trials Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(32)National Football League Player Health and Safety Department, New York, New 
York, USA.
(33)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian 
School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(34)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Disease, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(35)School of Medicine, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri, USA.
(36)Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(37)Spaulding Rehabilitation, Mass General Brigham, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The Cantu Concussion Summit aimed to gather clinicians and 
researchers to share findings and identify research gaps in brain injury and 
long-term cognitive disorders in athletes.
DESIGN: The conference concluded with a discussion of ways to best mitigate the 
risk of concussion and repetitive traumatic brain injury (RTBI).
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: The summit was supported by an unrestricted 
educational grant from the National Football League and featured a diverse group 
of experts from multiple disciplines.
INTERVENTIONS: N/A.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: This discussion resulted in unanimous agreement 
supporting six consensus statements aimed at enhancing player safety and health.
RESULTS: These consensus statements are as follows: (1) Eliminate intentional 
and avoidable head impacts in sports practices and games. (2) Encourage policies 
that limit the number, duration, and intensity of head impacts during sports 
practices and games. (3) Reinforce proper and safer techniques to avoid head 
contact at all levels of play. (4) Implement rules that reduce and penalize 
intentional and avoidable contact to the head and neck. (5) Investigate specific 
clinical signs and symptoms associated with chronic traumatic encephalopathy 
neuropathology through further research. (6) Improve the criteria for traumatic 
encephalopathy syndrome through continued research.
CONCLUSIONS: These consensus statements highlight opportunities to advance the 
understanding and prevention of concussions and RTBI, by emphasizing the need 
for ongoing research and policy changes to safeguard athletes' health and 
well-being. Implementation of these changes would reduce the burden of brain 
injuries in sports, promoting a safer environment for athletes at all levels.

© 2025 American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1002/pmrj.13332
PMID: 40040623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. J Cell Mol Med. 2025 Mar;29(5):e70378. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.70378.

Decrypting the Possible Mechanistic Role of Fenofibrate in Alzheimer's Disease 
and Type 2 Diabetes: The Truth and Mystery.

Alsaleem MA(1), Al-Kuraishy HM(2), Al-Gareeb AI(3), Abdel-Fattah MM(4), Alrouji 
M(5), Al-Harchan NA(6), Alruwaili M(7), Papadakis M(8), Alexiou A(9)(10)(11), 
Batiha GE(12).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Scientific Research, Applied College, Qassim University, Buraydah, 
Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Mustansiriyah University, Baghdad, Iraq.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Jabir Ibn Hayyan Medical University, 
Kufa, Iraq.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Beni-Suef 
University, Beni-Suef, Egypt.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Shaqra University, Shaqra, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, College of Dentistry, Al-Rasheed 
University, Baghdad, Iraq.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, Jouf University, 
Sakaka, Saudi Arabia.
(8)University Hospital Witten-Herdecke, University of Witten-Herdecke, 
Wuppertal, Germany.
(9)University Centre for Research & Development, Chandigarh University, Mohali, 
India.
(10)Department of Science and Engineering, Novel Global Community Educational 
Foundation, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(11)Department of Research & Development, Funogen, Athens, Greece.
(12)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Damanhour University, Damanhour, AlBeheira, Egypt.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by the 
progressive deposition of extracellular amyloid beta (Aβ) and intracellular 
neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). Of note, metabolic disorders such as insulin 
resistance (IR) and type 2 diabetes (T2D) are associated with the development of 
brain IR and associated neurodegeneration. In addition, AD neuropathology and 
linked cognitive impairment accelerate the development of peripheral IR and the 
progression of T2D. Therefore, there is a bidirectional relationship between T2D 
and AD. It has been demonstrated that AD and T2D induce dysregulation of 
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-α) leading to the central 
and peripheral metabolic disturbances. Hence, dysregulated PPAR-α could be a 
shared mechanism in both AD and T2D, and restoration of PPAR-α signalling by 
PPAR-α agonist fenofibrate (FN) may alleviate T2D and AD. Therefore, this review 
aims to shed light on the potential involvement of PPAR-α in T2D and AD, and how 
FN could be effective in the management of AD. FN seems to be effective in both 
AD and T2D by dual neuroprotective and antidiabetic effects that can mitigate AD 
neuropathology and T2D-related complications by modulating various cellular 
processes and inflammatory signalling pathways. In conclusion, FN could be a 
possible candidate in the management of AD and T2D by modulating different 
signalling pathways involved in the pathogenesis of these conditions.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by 
Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.70378
PMCID: PMC11880132
PMID: 40040308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


74. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2024 Jul;2024:1-4. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC53108.2024.10781740.

A deep spatio-temporal attention model of dynamic functional network 
connectivity shows sensitivity to Alzheimer's in asymptomatic individuals.

Wei Y, Abrol A, Lah J, Qiu D, Calhoun VD.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) progresses from asymptomatic changes to clinical 
symptoms, emphasizing the importance of early detection for proper treatment. 
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), particularly dynamic functional 
network connectivity (dFNC), has emerged as an important biomarker for AD. 
Nevertheless, studies probing at-risk subjects in the pre-symptomatic stage 
using dFNC are limited. To identify at-risk subjects and understand alterations 
of dFNC in different stages, we leverage deep learning advancements and 
introduce a transformer-convolution framework for predicting at-risk subjects 
based on dFNC, incorporating spatial-temporal self-attention to capture brain 
network dependencies and temporal dynamics. Our model significantly outperforms 
other popular machine learning methods. By analyzing individuals with diagnosed 
AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI), we studied the AD progression and 
observed a higher similarity between MCI and asymptomatic AD. The interpretable 
analysis highlights the cognitive-control network's diagnostic importance, with 
the model focusing on intra-visual domain dFNC when predicting asymptomatic AD 
subjects.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC53108.2024.10781740
PMID: 40039841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2024 Jul;2024:1-7. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC53108.2024.10781557.

Multi-class Prediction of Cognitively Normal / Mild Cognitive Impairment / 
Alzheimer's Disease Status in Dementia Based on Convolutional Neural Networks 
with Attention Mechanism.

Yao M, Liu J, Pu Y, Katie Chan KH.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease with insidious onset and 
progressive development. AD is a health issue that is attracting attention as 
the world's populations get older. Although there is currently no effective 
treatment for this disease, early diagnosis is necessary to help people prevent 
it. Here, we developed an MRI-based deep learning and multi-class AD 
classification and prediction framework. Based on the traditional Visual 
Geometry Group 19 (VGG19) architecture, we embedded the Convolutional Block 
Attention Module Attention layer to build an Alzheimer's directional prediction 
3D convolution model referred to as AD_Net in this paper. We used MRI images 
from the ADNI open data resource to train, classify, and predict three different 
conditions: AD, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and cognitively normal (CN). 
Experimental results showed that the prediction accuracy and system robustness 
of AD_Net are superior to those of basic VGG19. To improve the accuracy of the 
prediction, we developed a multilayer perceptron (MLP)-based model to 
incorporate additional factors into the model, such as age, gender, and 
Mini-Mental State Examination score. We presented the model performance for 
groups with and without directional influence factors. Accuracy for the two 
groups was 51.2% and 89%, respectively. The latter group had a standard 
deviation as low as 1.8%, reflecting predictive performance that is both good 
and stable. Our model can be applied to the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's 
disease and other similar conditions that can be diagnosed by MRI and the 
patient's underlying factors.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC53108.2024.10781557
PMID: 40039646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2024 Jul;2024:1-4. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC53108.2024.10782700.

Artificial Intelligence Based Hierarchical Classification of Frontotemporal 
Dementia.

Poonam K, Guha R, Chakrabarti PP.

Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a typical kind of presenile dementia with three 
main subtypes: behavioral-variant FTD (bvFTD), non-fluent variant primary 
progressive aphasia (nfvPPA), and semantic variant primary progressive aphasia 
(svPPA). Our aim is to classify brain images of each subject into one of the 
spectrums of the FTD in a hierarchical order by applying data-driven techniques. 
Specifically, we took 300 subjects (30 bvFTD, 41 svPPA, 25 nfvPPA, 80 
Alzheimer's Disease, and 124 cognitively normal) from the Frontotemporal Lobar 
Degeneration Neuroimaging Initiative archive to validate our approach. The 
cortical and subcortical measurements, e.g., cortical thickness and volumetric 
segmentation, were extracted from MRI images for the experiment. Our proposed 
model yielded classification accuracy of 87.42%, 83.23%, and 82.44% with Support 
Vector Machine (SVM), Linear Discriminant Analysis, and Naive Bayes methods, 
respectively, for five classes. We observed a significant improvement over the 
flat multi-class model, which has an accuracy of 82.80%, 81.27%, and 80.45%, 
respectively, for five classes. We also compared our proposed approach with a 
Convolutional Neural Networks model and ensemble with multi-layer perception as 
well. The results showed that the hierarchical approach performs almost equally 
well here as in the SVM model. Moreover, we also tested our hierarchical 
approach for three classes (CN, Non-FTD, FTD) to compare with state-of-the-art 
methods and obtained better results.Clinical relevance- This study provides a 
detailed understanding of the heterogeneity within the FTD subtypes; clinicians 
can better tailor diagnostic and treatment strategies to match each subtype's 
specific characteristics and progression patterns.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC53108.2024.10782700
PMID: 40039638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2024 Jul;2024:1-4. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC53108.2024.10782936.

Balancing Spectral, Temporal and Spatial Information for EEG-based Alzheimer's 
Disease Classification.

Goerttler S, He F, Wu M.

The prospect of future treatment warrants the development of cost-effective 
screening for Alzheimer's disease (AD). A promising candidate in this regard is 
electroencephalography (EEG), as it is one of the most economic imaging 
modalities. Recent efforts in EEG analysis have shifted towards leveraging 
spatial information, employing novel frameworks such as graph signal processing 
or graph neural networks. Here, we investigate the importance of spatial 
information relative to spectral or temporal information by varying the 
proportion of each dimension for AD classification. To do so, we systematically 
test various dimension resolution configurations on two routine EEG datasets. 
Our findings show that spatial information is more important than temporal 
information and equally valuable as spectral information. On the larger second 
dataset, substituting spectral with spatial information even led to an increase 
of 1.1% in accuracy, which emphasises the importance of spatial information for 
EEG-based AD classification. We argue that our resolution-based feature 
extraction has the potential to improve AD classification specifically, and 
multivariate signal classification generally.Clinical relevance- This study 
proposes balancing the spectral, temporal and spatial feature resolution to 
improve EEGbased diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC53108.2024.10782936
PMID: 40039434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Arch Pharm (Weinheim). 2025 Mar;358(3):e2400387. doi: 10.1002/ardp.202400387.

First in class pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine derivatives fused to 
fluorobenzylpiperidines as dual ligands of acetylcholinesterase and histamine 
H(3) receptor.

Añazco T(1), Werner T(2), Torres MJ(3), Hornos-Carneiro MF(1), Fernández J(1), 
Zivkovic A(2), Salas CO(4), Castro-Álvarez A(5), Gutiérrez M(6), Stark H(2), 
Espinosa-Bustos C(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Farmacia, Facultad de Química y de Farmacia, Pontificia 
Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Heinrich Heine 
University Düsseldorf, Duesseldorf, Germany.
(3)Programa de Farmacología y Toxicología, Facultad de Medicina, Pontificia 
Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(4)Departamento de Química Orgánica, Facultad de Química y de Farmacia, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(5)Departamento de Ciencias Preclínicas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de La 
Frontera, Temuco, Chile.
(6)Instituto de Química de Recursos Naturales, Laboratorio de Síntesis Orgánica 
y Actividad Biológica (LSO-Act-Bio), Universidad de Talca, Talca, Chile.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disease with 
manifold underlying pathophysiological mechanisms. Therefore, 
multitarget-directed ligands potentially offer beneficial therapeutic effects 
compared with classical therapies. Dual targeting of the histamine H3 receptor 
(H3R) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is a valid strategy for the treatment of 
AD. In this work, a new series of pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidines fused to 
fluorobenzylpiperidine derivatives was designed, synthesized, and 
pharmacologically evaluated. Among the 16 derivatives reported here, compounds 
4a (IC50 = 2.19 µM for human acetylcholinesterase (hAChE) and Ki = 1.05 µM for 
H3R) and 4f (IC50 = 4.27 µM for hAChE and Ki = 1.31 µM for H3R) show the most 
balanced dual targeting behavior coupled with moderate affinities at both 
targets. Selected compounds showed medium inhibition of butyrylcholinesterase 
(BuChE). Moreover, these compounds did not show any toxicity in the SH-SY5Y or 
HEK-293 cell lines at pharmacologically relevant concentrations. In silico 
studies allowed the proposition of binding modes and the prediction of favorable 
absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion properties. The cumulative 
results suggest compounds 4a and 4f as lead structures for the further 
development of novel dual-targeted ligands for AD therapy.

© 2025 Deutsche Pharmazeutische Gesellschaft.

DOI: 10.1002/ardp.202400387
PMID: 40038883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Mar 4;20(1):25. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00815-2.

The neuroimmune nexus: unraveling the role of the mtDNA-cGAS-STING signal 
pathway in Alzheimer's disease.

Quan S(1), Fu X(1), Cai H(1), Ren Z(1), Xu Y(1), Jia L(2).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Clinical Research Center 
for Geriatric Diseases, 45 Changchun St, Beijing, 100053, China.
(2)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Clinical Research Center 
for Geriatric Diseases, 45 Changchun St, Beijing, 100053, China. 
jialongfei@gmail.com.

The relationship between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and neuroimmunity has 
gradually begun to be unveiled. Emerging evidence indicates that cyclic GMP-AMP 
synthase (cGAS) acts as a cytosolic DNA sensor, recognizing cytosolic 
damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), and inducing the innate immune 
response by activating stimulator of interferon genes (STING). Dysregulation of 
this pathway culminates in AD-related neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. A 
substantial body of evidence indicates that mitochondria are involved in the 
critical pathogenic mechanisms of AD, whose damage leads to the release of 
mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) into the extramitochondrial space. This leaked mtDNA 
serves as a DAMP, activating various pattern recognition receptors and immune 
defense networks in the brain, including the cGAS-STING pathway, ultimately 
leading to an imbalance in immune homeostasis. Therefore, modulation of the 
mtDNA-cGAS-STING pathway to restore neuroimmune homeostasis may offer promising 
prospects for improving AD treatment outcomes. In this review, we focus on the 
mechanisms of mtDNA release during stress and the activation of the cGAS-STING 
pathway. Additionally, we delve into the research progress on this pathway in 
AD, and further discuss the primary directions and potential hurdles in 
developing targeted therapeutic drugs, to gain a deeper understanding of the 
pathogenesis of AD and provide new approaches for its therapy.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00815-2
PMCID: PMC11877805
PMID: 40038765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.


80. J Neuroinflammation. 2025 Mar 5;22(1):64. doi: 10.1186/s12974-025-03387-6.

The protective PLCγ2-P522R variant mitigates Alzheimer's disease-associated 
pathologies by enhancing beneficial microglial functions.

Takalo M(#)(1), Jeskanen H(#)(2), Rolova T(3), Kervinen I(2), Hellén M(3), 
Heikkinen S(2), Koivisto H(4), Jokivarsi K(4), Müller SA(5)(6), Koivumäki 
EM(7)(8), Mäkinen P(2), Juopperi SP(2), Willman RM(2), Sinisalo R(2), Hoffmann 
D(4), Jäntti H(4), Peitz M(9)(10), Fließbach K(11)(12), Kuulasmaa T(2), Natunen 
T(2), Kemppainen S(2), Poutiainen P(13), Leinonen V(14)(15), Malm T(4), 
Martiskainen H(2), Ramirez A(12)(16)(17)(18)(19), Haapasalo A(4), Lichtenthaler 
SF(5)(6)(20), Tanila H(4), Haass C(5)(20)(21), Rinne J(7)(8)(22), Koistinaho 
J(3)(23), Hiltunen M(24).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland. 
mari.takalo@uef.fi.
(2)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(3)Neuroscience Center, Helsinki Institute of Life Science (HiLIFE), University 
of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(4)A. I. Virtanen Institute for Molecular Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(5)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE Munich), Munich, Germany.
(6)Neuroproteomics, School of Medicine and Health, Klinikum Rechts Der Isar, 
Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(7)Turku PET Centre, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(8)Turku PET Centre, Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland.
(9)Institute of Reconstructive Neurobiology, University of Bonn Medical Faculty 
& University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(10)Cell Programming Core Facility, University of Bonn Medical Faculty, Bonn, 
Germany.
(11)Department of Old Age Psychiatry and Cognitive Disorders, University of Bonn 
Medical Center, Bonn, Germany.
(12)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE Bonn), Bonn, Germany.
(13)Diagnostic Imaging Center, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.
(14)Department of Neurosurgery, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.
(15)Institute of Clinical Medicine - Neurosurgery, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(16)Division of Neurogenetics and Molecular Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry 
and Psychotherapy, Medical Faculty, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(17)Department of Old Age Psychiatry and Cognitive Disorders, University 
Hospital Bonn, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(18)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
University of Texas Health Sciences Center, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(19)Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated 
Disease (CECAD), University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(20)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(21)Metabolic Biochemistry, Biomedical Centre (BMC), Faculty of Medicine, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, Germany.
(22)InFLAMES Research Flagship, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(23)Drug Research Program, Division of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, 
University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(24)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland. 
mikko.hiltunen@uef.fi.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Phospholipase C gamma 2, proline 522 to arginine (PLCγ2-P522R) is a 
protective variant that reduces the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, 
it was shown to mitigate β-amyloid pathology in a 5XFAD mouse model of AD. Here, 
we investigated the protective functions of the PLCγ2-P522R variant in a less 
aggressive APP/PS1 mouse model of AD and assessed the underlying cellular 
mechanisms using mouse and human microglial models.
METHODS: The effects of the protective PLCγ2-P522R variant on microglial 
activation, AD-associated β-amyloid and neuronal pathologies, and behavioral 
changes were investigated in PLCγ2-P522R knock-in variant mice crossbred with 
APP/PS1 mice. Transcriptomic, proteomic, and functional studies were carried out 
using microglia isolated from mice carrying the PLCγ2-P522R variant. Finally, 
microglia-like cell models generated from human blood and skin biopsy samples of 
PLCγ2-P522R variant carriers were employed.
RESULTS: The PLCγ2-P522R variant decreased β-amyloid plaque count and coverage 
in female APP/PS1 mice. Moreover, the PLCγ2-P522R variant promoted anxiety in 
these mice. The area of the microglia around β-amyloid plaques was also 
increased in mice carrying the PLCγ2-P522R variant, while β-amyloid 
plaque-associated neuronal dystrophy and the levels of certain cytokines, 
including IL-6 and IL-1β, were reduced. These alterations were revealed through 
[18F]FEPPA PET imaging and behavioral studies, as well as various cytokine 
immunoassays, transcriptomic and proteomic analyses, and immunohistochemical 
analyses using mouse brain tissues. In cultured mouse primary microglia, the 
PLCγ2-P522R variant reduced the size of lipid droplets. Furthermore, 
transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed that the PLCγ2-P522R variant 
regulated key targets and pathways involved in lipid metabolism, mitochondrial 
fatty acid oxidation, and inflammatory/interferon signaling in acutely isolated 
adult mouse microglia and human monocyte-derived microglia-like cells. Finally, 
the PLCγ2-P522R variant also increased mitochondrial respiration in human 
iPSC-derived microglia.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that the PLCγ2-P522R variant exerts 
protective effects against β-amyloid and neuronal pathologies by increasing 
microglial responsiveness to β-amyloid plaques in APP/PS1 mice. The changes 
observed in lipid/fatty acid and mitochondrial metabolism revealed by the omics 
and metabolic assessments of mouse and human microglial models suggest that the 
protective effects of the PLCγ2-P522R variant are potentially associated with 
increased metabolic capacity of microglia.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-025-03387-6
PMCID: PMC11881468
PMID: 40038760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The animals were raised and handled at the Laboratory Animal Center 
of the University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland. All mouse studies were 
carried out in accordance with the guidelines of the European Community Council 
Directives 86/609/EEC and approved by the Regional State Administrative Agency 
and Project Authorization Board (ESAVI/7315/2024, EKS-004–2019). All study 
protocols concerning human samples were approved by the Medical Research Ethics 
Committee of Wellbeing Services County of North Savo (formerly the Medical 
Research Ethics Committee of North Savo Hospital District, 833/2023, 123/2016). 
Participant recontacting was approved by the Scientific Steering Committee of 
Auria Biobank (BB_2020-0062). Consent for publication: All the authors have 
approved the final version of the manuscript and provided their consent for 
publication. Competing interests: CH collaborates with Denali Therapeutics and 
is a member of the advisory boards of AviadoBio and Cure Ventures.


81. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul;62(7):8695-8717. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04811-x.
Epub  2025 Mar 4.

Benfotiamine Ameliorates Streptozotocin-Induced Alzheimer's Disease in Rats by 
Modulating Neuroinflammation, Oxidative Stress, and Microglia.

A E F Cardinali C(1), Martins YA(2), C M Moraes R(2)(3), Costa AP(2), Torrão 
AS(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia E Biofisica, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Av 
Professor Lineu Prestes 2415, Sao Paulo, 05508-000, Brazil. 
camila.cardinali@icb.usp.br.
(2)Departamento de Fisiologia E Biofisica, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Av 
Professor Lineu Prestes 2415, Sao Paulo, 05508-000, Brazil.
(3)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Neurobiology, The University of Alabama 
at Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent cause of dementia, characterized 
by progressive memory loss and cognitive decline. Recent evidence indicates that 
inflammation plays a central role in AD pathogenesis, with elevated inflammatory 
markers and risk genes linked to innate immune functions. Glial cell 
dysfunction, particularly in astrocytes and microglia, is crucial to the 
neuroinflammatory process, contributing to oxidative stress, synaptic 
dysfunction, neuronal death, and impaired neurogenesis. This study aimed to 
investigate the therapeutic effects of benfotiamine (BFT), a vitamin B1 
analogue, on microglial morphology, inflammation, and oxidative stress 
parameters in a sporadic Alzheimer-like disease model induced by 
intracerebroventricular injection of streptozotocin (STZ). Supplementation with 
150 mg/kg of BFT for 7 days significantly reduced inflammation in the 
hippocampus and provided protection against oxidative damage in the entorhinal 
cortex by activating the Nrf-2 pathway and enhancing the expression of 
antioxidant enzymes such as SOD1 and CAT. These findings suggest that BFT exerts 
neuroprotective effects in AD, particularly impacting glial cell function and 
redox homeostasis.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04811-x
PMID: 40038195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


82. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul;62(7):8738-8751. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04808-6.
Epub  2025 Mar 4.

Deciphering the Neuroprotective Action of Bee Venom Peptide Melittin: Insights 
into Mechanistic Interplay.

Kadyan P(1), Singh L(2).

Author information:
(1)University Institute of Pharma Sciences, Chandigarh University, Mohali, 
Punjab, India.
(2)University Institute of Pharma Sciences, Chandigarh University, Mohali, 
Punjab, India. lovedeep992s@gmail.com.

Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
and multiple sclerosis, are characterized by progressive loss of neuronal 
structure and function. These conditions often lead to cognitive decline, motor 
dysfunction, and ultimately severe impairment of daily activities. A key feature 
of neurodegenerative diseases is chronic inflammation, which contributes to 
neuronal damage and exacerbates disease progression. Traditional treatments 
mainly focus on symptomatic relief rather than addressing the underlying causes, 
highlighting the need for novel therapeutic approaches. Melittin, a bioactive 
peptide derived from bee venom, has garnered attention for its multifaceted 
neuroprotective properties, particularly in the context of neuroinflammatory and 
neurodegenerative disorders. This review delves into the molecular mechanisms 
through which melittin exerts neuroprotective effects, with a focus on its 
ability to modulate neuroinflammation, apoptosis, and neurogenesis. Research 
indicates that melittin can downregulate pro-apoptotic pathways by inhibiting 
calpain-mediated activation of apoptosis-inducing factor and Bax, thereby 
reducing neuronal cell death. Additionally, melittin exerts its neuroprotective 
effects through the inhibition of neuroinflammatory processes, specifically by 
downregulating key inflammatory pathways such as NF-κB and MAPK. This modulation 
leads to decreased production of proinflammatory cytokines and prostaglandins, 
which are implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. Beyond 
its anti-inflammatory actions, melittin promotes neurogenesis, potentially 
through the modulation of the BDNF/Trk-B/CREB signaling pathway, which plays a 
crucial role in neuronal survival and plasticity. These properties suggest that 
melittin not only provides symptomatic relief but could also address the root 
causes of neuronal degeneration, presenting a promising avenue for the 
development of new treatments for neurodegenerative diseases. Further research 
is required to validate its efficacy and safety in clinical settings.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04808-6
PMID: 40038194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: This article 
does not contain any studies with human participants or animals performed by any 
of the authors. Informed Consent: Not applicable. Conflict of Interest: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


83. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2025 Mar 4;26(3):74. doi: 10.1208/s12249-025-03063-1.

Delving Into Nanoparticle Systems for Enhanced Drug Delivery Technologies.

Abaidullah N(1), Muhammad K(2), Waheed Y(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Biotechnology, Atta-Ur-Rehman School of Applied 
Biosciences, National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad, 4400, 
Pakistan.
(2)Department of Biology, College of Science, UAE University, 15551, Al Ain, 
UAE.
(3)NUST School of Health Sciences, National University of Sciences and 
Technology (NUST), H-12 Sector, Islamabad, 44000, Pakistan. 
yasir_waheed_199@hotmail.com.
(4)Near East University, Operational Research Center in Healthcare, TRNC Mersin 
10, Nicosia, 99138, Turkey. yasir_waheed_199@hotmail.com.
(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Health Science, Korea 
University, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea. yasir_waheed_199@hotmail.com.

Nanotechnology, based on the utilization of nanoparticles, has revolutionized 
drug delivery techniques, offering groundbreaking methods for managing and 
diagnosing intricate ailments over the past four decades. This article aims to 
underscore how the use of these particles has been used to treat previously 
incurable diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's disease. 
Recently, the integration of diagnostic imaging and targeted therapy using 
theranostic nanoparticles has improved cancer treatment precision. Moreover, 
exosome-based drug delivery has demonstrated high in vivo biocompatibility and 
antigen-carrying ability during vaccine development. The unique properties of 
these tiny particles enable their transport to specific locations inaccessible 
to large drug molecules. The development of these nanodrugs by either 
encapsulation or adsorption of drugs on particles has allowed the loading of 
both hydrophilic and hydrophobic drugs. Innovative engineering approaches have 
enabled the engineering of shear-sensitive nanoparticles for site-targeted drug 
release, which eliminates the requirement for frequent doses, which is common in 
conventional drug delivery. Factors such as size, shape as well as surface 
modification are considered during the top-down and bottom-up approaches for 
engineering nanoparticle-based systems. However, issues related to scaling up 
manufacturing, long-term safety, and regulatory approval for these techniques 
must be resolved. The use of these drug delivery systems offers many therapeutic 
advantages. This article examines the application of these systems across 
various medical domains including cancer treatment, infectious diseases, 
cardiovascular disorders, central nervous system ailments, and ophthalmic 
conditions. This fusion of nanotechnology with drug delivery has the potential 
to elevate healthcare standards in the future by introducing innovative 
frameworks for revolutionizing therapeutic practices.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to American Association of 
Pharmaceutical Scientists.

DOI: 10.1208/s12249-025-03063-1
PMID: 40038143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: The authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


84. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2025 Apr 2;138:111309. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2025.111309. Epub 2025 Mar 2.

Evaluating the causal effects of circulating metabolic biomarkers on Alzheimer's 
disease.

Du J(1), Baranova A(2), Cao H(3), Zhang F(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, The Affiliated Mental Health Center of 
Jiangnan University, Wuxi Central Rehabilitation Hospital, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214151, 
China. Electronic address: dujianbin1987@163.com.
(2)School of Systems Biology, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA 22030, USA; 
Research Centre for Medical Genetics, Moscow 115478, Russia.
(3)School of Systems Biology, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA 22030, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210029, China; Institute of Neuropsychiatry, The 
Affiliated Brain Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 
210029, China. Electronic address: zhangfq@njmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is 
challenging due to the complexity of its pathogenesis. Although research 
suggests a link between circulating metabolites and AD, their causal 
relationship is not fully understood.
METHODS: Based on publicly available genome-wide association study data, we 
investigated the causative relationship between AD (7759 cases and 334,740 
controls) and 233 traits describing circulating metabolites (136,016 
participants) using a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) method. We adopted 
the inverse variance weighted approach as the priority and performed sensitivity 
analyses with MR-Egger intercept method and Cochran's Q test.
RESULTS: The overall causal effect of circulating metabolic traits on AD was 
significantly higher than the inverse effect (beta: 0.15 ± 0.42 vs. 0.04 ± 0.07; 
p < 0.05). A total of 72 circulating metabolic traits (odd ratio (OR): 
1.16-2.48) had a significant positive causal effect on AD, while a total of 16 
circulating metabolic traits with significant negative causal effects on AD were 
detected (OR: 0.38-0.88). AD had a significant positive causal effect (OR: 
1.02-1.17) on 142 circulating metabolic traits and a negative causal effect (OR: 
0.87-0.99) on 43 circulating metabolic traits. Circulating metabolites that have 
a bi-directional causative relationship with AD mainly include apolipoprotein B 
levels, total cholesterol levels, total triglycerides levels, and omega-6 fatty 
acids levels.
CONCLUSION: The causative relationship between AD and the circulating metabolic 
traits is complex and bidirectional. Analyzing metabolites causally involved in 
the development of AD may provide clues for identifying preventive and 
therapeutic targets for this disorder.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2025.111309
PMID: 40037511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


85. Neurobiol Dis. 2025 Apr;207:106861. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106861. Epub 2025
 Mar 2.

2024 VCP International Conference: Exploring multi-disciplinary approaches from 
basic science of valosin containing protein, an AAA+ ATPase protein, to the 
therapeutic advancement for VCP-associated multisystem proteinopathy.

Peck A(1), Dadi A(1), Yavarow Z(1), Alfano LN(2), Anderson D(3), Arkin MR(4), 
Chou TF(5), D'Ambrosio ES(6), Diaz-Manera J(7), Dudley JP(8), Elder AG(1), 
Ghoshal N(9), Hart CE(10), Hart MM(1), Huryn DM(11), Johnson AE(12), Jones 
KB(13), Kimonis V(14), Kiskinis E(15), Lee EB(16), Lloyd TE(17), Mapstone M(18), 
Martin A(19), Meyer H(20), Mozaffar T(18), Onyike CU(21), Pfeffer G(22), Pindon 
A(23), Raman M(24), Richard I(25), Rubinsztein DC(26), Schiava M(7), Schütz 
AK(27), Shen PS(28), Southworth DR(29), Staffaroni AM(30), Taralio-Gravovac 
M(31), Weihl CC(32), Yao Q(33), Ye Y(34), Peck N(35).

Author information:
(1)Cure VCP Disease, Warner Robins, GA, USA.
(2)The Abigail Wexner Research Institute at Nationwide Children's Hospital, 
Columbus, OH, USA.
(3)Eikon Therapeutics, Hayward, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Caltech, Pasadena, CA, USA.
(6)Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH, USA; Department of Genetic and 
Cellular Medicine and Department of Neurology, UMass Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, USA.
(7)The John Walton Muscular Dystrophy Research Centre, Newcastle University 
Translational and Clinical Research Institute and Newcastle Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Center for Life, Central Parkway, Newcastle, Upon Tyne, United 
Kingdom.
(8)LaMontagne Center for Infectious Disease, University of Texas, Austin, TX, 
USA.
(9)Departments of Neurology and Psychiatry, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(10)Creyon Bio, San Diego, CA, USA; Lilly, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(11)Department of Chemistry University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(12)Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, 
LA, USA.
(13)Department of Orthopaedics, Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah 
School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(14)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA; 
Department of Neurology, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA.
(15)The Ken & Ruth Davee Department of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience, 
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(16)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine 
at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(17)Department of Neurology Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.
(18)Department of Neurology, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA.
(19)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California, Berkeley, CA, 
USA.
(20)Center of Medical Biotechnology, Faculty of Biology, University of 
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(21)Division of Geriatric Psychiatry and Neuropsychiatry, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, USA; Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
USA.
(22)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Canada; Department of Medical Genetics, Cumming School of Medicine, University 
of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.
(23)Cure VCP Disease, Warner Robins, GA, USA; Myhre Syndrome Foundation, 
Richardson, TX, USA.
(24)Department of Developmental Molecular and Chemical Biology, Tufts University 
School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(25)Généthon, 91000 Evry, France; Université Paris-Saclay, Université Evry, 
Inserm, Généthon, Integrare research unit UMR_S951, 91000 Evry, France.
(26)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, University of Cambridge, CB2 0XY 
Cambridge, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, 
Cambridge, UK.
(27)Department of Chemistry and Pharmacy, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich, 
Munich, Germany.
(28)Department of Biochemistry, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(29)Institute for Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(30)UCSF Memory and Aging Center University of California San Francisco, CA, 
USA.
(31)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, University of Calgary, 
Alberta, Calgary, Canada.
(32)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(33)Department of Medicine Stony Brook University, Renaissance School of 
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY, USA.
(34)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, NIH, NIDDK, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(35)Cure VCP Disease, Warner Robins, GA, USA. Electronic address: 
nathan@curevcp.org.

Valosin-containing protein (VCP/p97) is a ubiquitously expressed AAA+ ATPase 
associated with numerous protein-protein interactions and critical cellular 
functions including protein degradation and clearance, mitochondrial 
homeostasis, DNA repair and replication, cell cycle regulation, endoplasmic 
reticulum-associated degradation, and lysosomal functions including autophagy 
and apoptosis. Autosomal-dominant missense mutations in the VCP gene may result 
in VCP-associated multisystem proteinopathy (VCP-MSP), a rare degenerative 
disorder linked to heterogeneous phenotypes including inclusion body myopathy 
(IBM) with Paget's disease of bone (PDB) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) or 
IBMPFD, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
parkinsonism, Charcot-Marie Tooth disease (CMT), and spastic paraplegia. The 
complexity of VCP-MSP makes collaboration among stakeholders essential and 
necessitates a multi-disciplinary approach. The 2024 VCP International 
Conference was hosted at Caltech between February 22 and 25. Co-organized by 
Cure VCP Disease and Dr. Tsui-Fen Chou, the meeting aimed to center the patient 
as a research partner, harmonize diverse stakeholder engagement, and bridge the 
gap between basic and clinical neuroscience as it relates to VCP-MSP. Over 100 
multi-disciplinary experts attended, ranging from basic scientists to clinicians 
to patient advocates. Attendees discussed genetics and clinical presentation, 
cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying disease, therapeutic approaches, 
and strategies for future VCP research. The conference included three roundtable 
discussions, 29 scientific presentations, 32 scientific posters, nine patient 
and caregiver posters, and a closing discussion forum. The following conference 
proceedings summarize these sessions, highlighting both the identified gaps in 
knowledge and the significant strides made towards understanding and treating 
VCP diseases.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106861
PMCID: PMC11960434
PMID: 40037468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. Tsui-Fen Chou, Amal Dali, Elenora D'Ambrosio, Jordi Diaz-Manera, Alyssa 
Johnson, Tahseen Mozaffar, Malavika Raman, Marianela Schiava, Anne K Schütz, 
Maja Tarailo-Graovac, Qingping Yao, and Zollie Yavarow have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper. The authors declare the following 
financial interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential 
competing interests. Lindsay N Alfano reports financial support was provided by 
Cure VCP Disease, Inc. Lindsay N Alfano reports a relationship with Sarepta 
Therapeutics Inc. that includes: funding grants. Lindsay N Alfano reports a 
relationship with Ultragenyx Pharmaceutical Inc. that includes: funding grants. 
Lindsay N Alfano reports a relationship with Novartis Pharma AG that includes: 
funding grants. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper. Daniel J Anderson reports a 
relationship with Eikon Therapeutics Inc. that includes: employment and equity 
or stocks. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper. Michelle Arkin has patent #Phenyl 
indole allosteric inhibitors of p97 atpase pending to University of California, 
San Francisco; University of Pittsburgh. If there are other authors, they 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. Jaquelin P. Dudley reports financial support and administrative support 
were provided by The University of Texas at Austin. Jaquelin P. Dudley reports 
financial support was provided by National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Diseases. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper. Alexis Elder reports a 
relationship with Cure VCP Disease, Inc. that includes: board membership. If 
there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper. Nupur Ghoshal, MD, PhD reports 
financial support was provided by NIH. Nupur Ghoshal, MD, PhD reports financial 
support was provided by Tau Consortium. Nupur Ghoshal, MD, PhD reports financial 
support was provided by The Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration. Nupur 
Ghoshal, MD, PhD reports a relationship with Tau Consortium that includes: 
funding grants and travel reimbursement. Nupur Ghoshal, MD, PhD reports a 
relationship with Blue Cross Blue Shield Association that includes: consulting 
or advisory and travel reimbursement. If there are other authors, they declare 
that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships 
that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. 
Christopher E. Hart reports a relationship with Creyon Bio, Inc. that includes: 
board membership, employment, and equity or stocks. If there are other authors, 
they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. Maureen McArthur Hart reports a relationship with Cure VCP Disease, Inc. 
that includes board membership. Maureen McArthur Hart reports a relationship 
with Creyon Bio, Inc. that includes: employment. If there are other authors, 
they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. Donna Huryn has patent #Phenyl indole allosteric inhibitors of p97 ATPase 
issued to University of Pittsburgh, NIH, University of California. Donna Huryn 
has patent #Modulators of p97 AAA ATPase activity issued to University of 
Pittsburgh. Donna Huryn has patent #Modulators of p97 AAA ATPAse activity issued 
to University of Pittsburgh. Donna Huryn has patent #1,2,3-triazole inhibitors 
of p97 AAA ATPase issued to University of Pittsburgh. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper. Kevin B. Jones reports financial support was provided by National 
Cancer Institute. Kevin B. Jones reports a relationship with National Cancer 
Institute that includes: funding grants. If there are other authors, they 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. Virginia Kimonis reports financial support was provided by UCI. If there 
are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper. Evangelos Kiskinis reports financial support was 
provided by National Institutes of Health. E.K is an academic cofounder of 
NuCyRNA Therapeutics, NeuronGrow, SAB member of Axion Biosystems, ResQ Biotech 
and Synapticure; named companies were not involved in this project. If there are 
other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper. Edward B Lee reports financial support was provided 
by National Institutes of Health. Edward B Lee reports financial support was 
provided by Delaware Community Foundation. Edward B Lee reports a relationship 
with Eli Lilly and Company that includes: consulting or advisory. Edward B Lee 
reports a relationship with WaveBreak Therapeutics Limited that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Edward B Lee has patent pending to University of 
Pennsylvania. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper. Thomas E. Lloyd MD PhD reports 
administrative support was provided by Baylor College of Medicine. Thomas E. 
Lloyd MD PhD reports a relationship with The Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine that includes: employment, funding grants, non-financial support, and 
travel reimbursement. Royalties from Up-to-Date for articles on Inclusion Body 
Myositis If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper. Mark Mapstone, PhD reports 
financial support was provided by National Institute on Aging. Mark Mapstone, 
PhD reports a relationship with Ireneo Health, PBC that includes: board 
membership and equity or stocks. Mark Mapstone, PhD reports a relationship with 
Alzheon, Inc. that includes: board membership. Mark Mapstone, PhD reports a 
relationship with Brain Neurotherapy Bio Inc. that includes: board membership. 
Mark Mapstone, PhD has patent with royalties paid to University of Rochester. 
Mark Mapstone, PhD has patent issued to Georgetown University. If there are 
other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper. Andreas Martin reports financial support was 
provided by Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Andreas Martin reports financial 
support was provided by NIH National Institute of General Medical Sciences. If 
there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper. Hemmo Meyer reports financial support 
was provided by German Research Foundation. If there are other authors, they 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. Chiadi U. Onyike reports a relationship with Tau Consortium that 
includes: board membership. Chiadi U. Onyike reports a relationship with 
Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration that includes: board membership. 
Chiadi U. Onyike reports a relationship with Alector Inc. that includes: funding 
grants. Chiadi U. Onyike reports a relationship with Denali Therapeutics Inc. 
that includes: funding grants. Consultant to Alector, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Neuvivo, 
Otsuka and Zevra - CUO If there are other authors, they declare that they have 
no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Allison Peck reports a 
relationship with Cure VCP Disease, Inc. that includes: board membership. If 
there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper. Nathan Peck reports a relationship 
with Cure VCP Disease, Inc. that includes: board membership. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper. Gerald Pfeffer serves on scientific/medical advisory boards in 
unpaid roles for Cure VCP, Muscular Dystrophy Canada, Ataxia Canada, and ALS 
Canada. He is the recipient of academic research grants from Canadian Institutes 
of Health Research/International Research Development Centre, Muscular Dystrophy 
Canada, and the Government of Canada's New Frontiers Research Fund. If there are 
other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper. Armelle Pindon reports a relationship with Cure VCP 
Disease, Inc. that includes: employment. If there are other authors, they 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. Isabelle Richard has patent #EP22305845.4 issued to Isabelle Richard, Ai 
Vu Hong. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper. David C Rubinsztein reports 
financial support was provided by UK Dementia Research Institute. David C 
Rubinsztein reports financial support was provided by NIHR Cambridge Biomedical 
Research Centre (BRC-1215-20,014). David C Rubinsztein reports a relationship 
with Drishti Discoveries that includes: consulting or advisory. David C 
Rubinsztein reports a relationship with PAQ Therapeutics that includes: 
consulting or advisory. David C Rubinsztein reports a relationship with MindRank 
AI that includes: consulting or advisory. David C Rubinsztein reports a 
relationship with Retro Biosciences that includes: consulting or advisory. David 
C Rubinsztein reports a relationship with Alexion Pharma International 
Operations Limited that includes: board membership and consulting or advisory. 
David C Rubinsztein reports a relationship with Carlyle Investment Management 
LLC that includes: consulting or advisory. David C Rubinsztein reports a 
relationship with Aladdin Healthcare Technologies Ltd. that includes: consulting 
or advisory. David C Rubinsztein reports a relationship with Nido Biosciences 
that includes: consulting or advisory. If there are other authors, they declare 
that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships 
that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Peter 
Shen reports financial support was provided by National Institutes of Health. If 
there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper. Daniel Southworth reports financial 
support was provided by National Institutes of Health. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper. Conrad Weihl reports financial support was provided by National 
Institutes of Health. Conrad Weihl reports a relationship with Sarepta 
Therapeutics Inc. that includes: consulting or advisory. Conrad Weihl reports a 
relationship with Abcuro, Inc. that includes: consulting or advisory. If there 
are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper. Yihong Ye reports financial support was provided by 
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. If there are 
other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.


86. Med Image Anal. 2025 May;102:103503. doi: 10.1016/j.media.2025.103503. Epub
2025  Feb 21.

Hyperfusion: A hypernetwork approach to multimodal integration of tabular and 
medical imaging data for predictive modeling.

Duenias D(1), Nichyporuk B(2), Arbel T(2), Riklin Raviv T(3); ADNI.

Author information:
(1)Ben Gurion University of the Negev, blvd 1, Beer Sheva 84105, Israel.
(2)Centre for Intelligent Machines, McGill University, 3480 University St, 
Montreal, QC, H3A 0E9, Canada; Mila - Quebec AI Institute, 6666 Rue 
Saint-Urbain, Montréal, QC H2S 3H1, Canada.
(3)Ben Gurion University of the Negev, blvd 1, Beer Sheva 84105, Israel. 
Electronic address: rrtammy@ee.bgu.ac.il.

The integration of diverse clinical modalities such as medical imaging and the 
tabular data extracted from patients' Electronic Health Records (EHRs) is a 
crucial aspect of modern healthcare. Integrative analysis of multiple sources 
can provide a comprehensive understanding of the clinical condition of a 
patient, improving diagnosis and treatment decision. Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) 
consistently demonstrate outstanding performance in a wide range of multimodal 
tasks in the medical domain. However, the complex endeavor of effectively 
merging medical imaging with clinical, demographic and genetic information 
represented as numerical tabular data remains a highly active and ongoing 
research pursuit. We present a novel framework based on hypernetworks to fuse 
clinical imaging and tabular data by conditioning the image processing on the 
EHR's values and measurements. This approach aims to leverage the complementary 
information present in these modalities to enhance the accuracy of various 
medical applications. We demonstrate the strength and generality of our method 
on two different brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) analysis tasks, namely, 
brain age prediction conditioned by subject's sex and multi-class Alzheimer's 
Disease (AD) classification conditioned by tabular data. We show that our 
framework outperforms both single-modality models and state-of-the-art MRI 
tabular data fusion methods. A link to our code can be found at 
https://github.com/daniel4725/HyperFusion.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.media.2025.103503
PMID: 40037055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


87. Nutr Rev. 2025 Aug 1;83(8):1594-1620. doi: 10.1093/nutrit/nuaf008.

Unlocking the Potential of l-α-Glycerylphosphorylcholine: From Metabolic 
Pathways to Therapeutic Applications.

Che X(1), Zhao Y(1), Xu Z(1), Hu Y(1), Ren A(1), Wu C(1), Yang J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, Shenyang 
110016, China.

l-α-Glycerylphosphorylcholine (GPC), also known as choline alphoscerate or 
α-glycerophosphorylcholine, serves as both a pharmaceutical product and a 
dietary supplement. Through its metabolic pathways, GPC acts as the precursor 
not only of choline and acetylcholine but also of various phospholipids. 
Extensive preclinical and clinical evidence demonstrates that GPC effectively 
alleviates cognitive impairment associated with Alzheimer's disease, vascular 
dementia, cerebral ischemia, stress, and epilepsy, among other conditions. 
Additionally, GPC has beneficial effects on such conditions and measures as 
ischemic/hypoxic conditions, ionizing radiation-induced damage, exercise 
performance, growth hormone release, and liver damage. As well as facilitating 
cholinergic neurotransmission, evidence also indicates GPC, among other 
activities, also can promote γ-aminobutyric acid release, enhance protein kinase 
C activity, facilitate hippocampal neurogenesis, upregulate neurotrophic 
factors, and inhibit inflammation. In preclinical studies, results indicate that 
GPC is not genotoxic in vitro or in vivo. Extensive human studies indicate GPC 
causes no severe adverse effects. Possible risks of atherosclerosis and stroke 
await necessary validation. In this review, the GPC-related metabolic pathways, 
pharmacological effects, mechanisms of action, and safety evaluation are 
discussed with the aim of providing a comprehensive understanding of GPC.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
International Life Sciences Institute. All rights reserved. For commercial 
re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/nutrit/nuaf008
PMID: 40036805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Brain. 2025 Aug 1;148(8):2763-2771. doi: 10.1093/brain/awae389.

Clinical, radiological, pathological and prognostic features of general paresis: 
a cohort study.

Wang RZ(1), Chen SF(1), Fei CJ(1), Zhang YR(1), Chen KL(1), Zhang W(2), Li 
MM(1), Huang YY(1), Xiang ST(2), Wu KM(1), Li WH(3), Wu BS(1), Cheng W(1)(2), 
Cui M(1), Yu JT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and National Center for Neurological Diseases, State 
Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers Center for Brain 
Science, Huashan Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai 
200040, China.
(2)Institute of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Fudan 
University, Shanghai 200433, China.
(3)V-Medical Laboratory Co., Ltd, Hangzhou 311122, China.

General paresis is a rare type of syphilis characterized by progressive 
cognitive impairment and psychiatric syndromes. It is often misdiagnosed because 
of its rarity and similarity to other diseases. We aimed to investigate the 
clinical, radiological, pathological and prognostic features of general paresis 
comprehensively and to compare it with other dementias. Between August 2019 and 
January 2024, patients were recruited from a memory clinic setting at the 
National Center for Neurological Disorders in China. Participants underwent 
clinical evaluation, laboratory testing and imaging and were followed after 
treatment. Comparative analysis was conducted on clinical features and 
neuropsychiatric assessments, and brain image features were investigated using 
linear regression models and SuStaIn models. Seventy-eight patients were 
included, with 90% being male. The median duration from symptom onset to the 
first diagnostic visit was 15 months. Sixty-three patients were followed for an 
average of 1.4 years. Cognitive impairment emerged as the most common symptom, 
and half of the patients co-existed with motor symptoms. Impairment across all 
cognitive domains accompanied by positive psychiatric symptoms raised suspicion 
for general paresis and distinguished it from Alzheimer's disease, 
frontotemporal dementia and anti-LGI1 encephalitis-related dementia. Common 
imaging abnormalities in general paresis included whole-brain atrophy and 
cortical hypointensity. Hippocampus-predominant and hippocampus-sparing atrophy 
subtypes were identified. Autoimmune responses in general paresis were 
demonstrated through the detection of autoimmune encephalitis antibodies in 11% 
of patients. Pathological amyloid changes were observed in 26% of patients, and 
elevated total tau levels were found in 30%. Seventy per cent of patients showed 
improvement following treatment, with a reduction in the number of symptoms 
observed across all cases. This study identifies specific clinical syndromes and 
radiological features of general paresis and refines the understanding of its 
prognosis. We provide clues to distinguish general paresis from other dementias, 
facilitating early diagnosis and treatment. The role of novel pathological 
changes in general paresis needs to be studied further.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact 
reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other 
permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions 
link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awae389
PMID: 40036706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2025 Jun 10;80(7):gbaf045. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbaf045.

Toward AI-Driven Precision Measurement of Cognition, Behavior, and Psychological 
Function in Aging and Alzheimer's Disease and Alzheimer's Disease-Related 
Dementias.

Stoeckel LE(1), John D(1), Sutterer M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Behavioral and Social Research, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(2)Division of Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, Bethesda, Maryland, 
USA.

The National Institute on Aging (NIA) is at the forefront of leveraging advances 
in artificial intelligence (AI) to better understanding of aging and the 
diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Alzheimer's 
disease-related dementias (ADRD). Recent NIA-supported projects have highlighted 
the transformative potential of AI, digital health, and computational approaches 
in improving the modeling, detection, and monitoring of changes in healthy aging 
and AD/ADRD. This perspective is forward looking, emphasizing key areas and 
efforts in AI-driven precision measurement in cognition, behavior, and 
psychological function.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Gerontological Society of 
America 2025.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbaf045
PMID: 40036675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Gerontologist. 2025 Apr 9;65(5):gnaf071. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnaf071.

Informal Care Receiving Among Older Adults: The Role of Multimorbidity and 
Intersectional Social Position.

Liu R(1), Nagel CL(2), Chen S(3), Allore HG(4)(5), Quiñones AR(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, 
Oregon, USA.
(2)College of Nursing, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, 
Arkansas, USA.
(3)OHSU-PSU School of Public Health, Portland, Oregon, USA.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 
USA.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Older adults with distinct multimorbidity 
combinations may require varying intensities of informal care and these needs 
may vary in important ways by race/ethnicity and sex. This study aims to examine 
informal care-receiving characteristics among older adults with varying 
multimorbidity patterns and race/ethnicity-sex characteristics.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A total of 4,875 participants from the National 
Health and Aging Trends Study were included. Five clinically informed 
multimorbidity categories (no condition(s), somatic-only, depression without 
cognitive impairment, cognitive impairment without depression, both depression, 
and cognitive impairment) and 6 intersectional groups (non-Hispanic White 
female, non-Hispanic White male, non-Hispanic Black female, non-Hispanic Black 
male, Hispanic female, and Hispanic male) were assessed. Negative binomial 
regression was applied to explore the associations among multimorbidity groups, 
race/ethnicity and sex combinations, and informal care-receiving 
characteristics.
RESULTS: Compared with the somatic-only multimorbidity group, individuals with 
no condition(s) received assistance with fewer ADL/IADL activities, whereas the 
cognitive impairment multimorbidity group received assistance with more ADL/IADL 
activities. Across race/ethnicity-sex groups, non-Hispanic White and Black males 
received assistance with fewer ADL/IADL activities, and no statistical 
significance was found for non-Hispanic Black females or Hispanics compared with 
non-Hispanic White female counterparts. Sensitivity analysis examining 
assistance with only ADL activities revealed the same pattern.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: The study highlighted the complexities of informal 
care-receiving characteristics among older adults, particularly among those with 
cognitive difficulties, and the ways in which race/ethnicity and sex are 
associated with care-receiving patterns. The findings highlight a need for 
person- and family-centered interventions sensitive to the diverse needs of 
care-recipients and caregivers.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnaf071
PMCID: PMC12036326
PMID: 40036606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We have no conflict of interest to declare.


91. J Infect Dis. 2025 Jun 2;231(5):e929-e940. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiaf093.

Increased Cerebrospinal Fluid Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 Fragments as a 
Read-Out of Brain Infection in Patients With COVID-19 Encephalopathy.

Lennol MP(1)(2), García-Ayllón MS(1)(2)(3), Avilés-Granados C(1)(2)(4), 
Trasciatti C(5)(6)(7), Tolassi C(5)(6)(7), Quaresima V(5)(6)(7), Arici 
D(5)(6)(7), Cristillo V(5)(6)(7), Volonghi I(5)(6)(7), Caprioli F(8), De Giuli 
V(8), Mariotto S(9), Ferrari S(9), Zanusso G(10), Ashton NJ(11)(12)(13)(14)(15), 
Zetterberg H(11)(16)(17)(18)(19)(20), Blennow K(11)(16)(21)(22), Padovani 
A(5)(6)(7)(23), Pilotto A(5)(6)(7), Sáez-Valero J(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Neurociencias de Alicante, Universidad Miguel Hernández-Consejo 
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), San Juan de Alicante, Spain.
(2)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Sobre Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas, San Juan de Alicante, Spain.
(3)Unidad de Investigación, Hospital General Universitario de Elche, Fundación 
para el Fomento de la Investigación Sanitaria y Biomédica de la Comunitat 
Valenciana (FISABIO), Elche, Spain.
(4)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria y Biomédica de Alicante (ISABIAL), 
Alicante, Spain.
(5)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(6)Department of Continuity of Care and Frailty, Neurology Unit, Azienda Socio 
Sanitaria Territoriale (ASST) degli Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy.
(7)Neurobiorepository and Laboratory of Advanced Biological Markers, University 
of Brescia and ASST Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy.
(8)Neurology Unit, Istituti Ospedalieri, ASST Cremona, Cremona, Italy.
(9)Neurology Unit, Department of Neurosciences, Biomedicine and Movement 
Sciences, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
(10)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedicine, and Movement Sciences, University 
of Verona, Verona, Italy.
(11)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(12)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology, and Neuroscience, Maurice Wohl Clinical 
Neuroscience Institute, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.
(13)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, 
Norway.
(14)National Institute for Health and Care Research Biomedical Research Centre 
for Mental Health and Biomedical Research Unit for Dementia, South London and 
Maudsley National Health Service Foundation, London, United Kingdom.
(15)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(16)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(17)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, United Kingdom.
(18)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(19)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(20)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(21)Paris Brain Institute (ICM), Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne 
University, Paris, France.
(22)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
University of Science and Technology of China (USTC), Hefei, China.
(23)Brain Health Center, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: This study assesses the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of the 
viral receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and of the serine protease 
TMPRSS2 fragments in patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection presenting encephalitis 
(CoV-Enceph).
METHODS: The study included biobanked CSF from 18 CoV-Enceph, 4 subjects with 
COVID-19 without encephalitis (CoV), 21 with non-COVID-19-related encephalitis 
(Enceph), and 21 neurologically healthy controls. Participants underwent a 
standardized assessment for encephalitis. A large subset of samples underwent 
analysis for an extended panel of CSF neuronal, glial, and inflammatory 
biomarkers. ACE2 and TMPRSS2 species were determined in the CSF by western 
blotting.
RESULTS: ACE2 was present in CSF as several species, full-length forms and 2 
cleaved fragments of 80 and 85 kDa. CoV-Enceph patients displayed increased CSF 
levels of full-length species, as well as the 80 kDa fragment, but not the 
alternative 85 kDa fragment, compared with controls and Enceph patients, 
characterized by increases of both fragments. Furthermore, TMPRSS2 was increased 
in the CSF of Enceph patients compared with controls, but not in CoV-Enceph 
patients. The CoV patients without encephalitis displayed unaltered CSF levels 
of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 species.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with encephalitis displayed an overall increase in CSF 
ACE2, probably as a consequence of brain inflammation. The increase of the 
shortest ACE2 fragment only in CoV-Enceph patients may reflect the enhanced 
cleavage of the receptor triggered by SARS-CoV-2, thus serving to monitor brain 
penetrance of the virus associated with the rare encephalitis complication. 
TMPRSS2 changes in the CSF appeared related to inflammation, but not with 
SARS-CoV-2 infection.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jiaf093
PMCID: PMC12128074
PMID: 40036349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest. H. Z. has 
served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, 
Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, 
AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, 
Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red 
Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, 
and Wave; has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, and Roche; and is a cofounder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work). K. B. has served as a consultant and at 
advisory boards for Acumen, ALZpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac, 
Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; 
served at data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; given 
lectures, produced educational materials, and participated in educational 
programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; 
and is a cofounder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is 
a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program. M. S. C. has given lectures at 
symposia sponsored by Almirall, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche Diagnostics, and 
Roche Farma; received consultancy fees (paid to the institution) from Roche 
Diagnostics; served on advisory boards of Roche Diagnostics and Grifols; was 
granted a project and is a site investigator of a clinical trial (funded to the 
institution) by Roche Diagnostics; and has received in-kind support for research 
(to the institution) from ADx Neurosciences, Alamar Biosciences, Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Janssen Research and Development, 
and Roche Diagnostics. N. J. A. has received consultancy/speaker fees from 
Bioartic, Biogen, Lilly, Quanterix, and Alamar Biosciences. A. Pa. has received 
grant support from the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education, Research 
and University, and CARIPLO Foundation; and personal compensation as a 
consultant/scientific advisory board member for Biogen, Lundbeck, Roche, 
Nutricia, and General Healthcare. A. Pi. has received consultancy/speaker fees 
from Abbvie, Bial, Lundbeck, Roche, and Zambon pharmaceuticals. All other 
authors report no potential conflicts. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form 
for Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors 
consider relevant to the content of the manuscript have been disclosed.


92. Age Ageing. 2025 Feb 2;54(2):afaf041. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afaf041.

Impact of frailty status on the effect of a multidomain lifestyle intervention 
on cognition.

Pöyhönen J(1)(2), Lehtisalo J(2)(3), Roitto HM(1)(2)(4), Levälahti E(2), 
Strandberg T(1)(4)(5), Kivipelto M(2)(6)(7)(8), Kulmala J(2)(6)(9), Antikainen 
R(5)(10), Soininen H(3)(11), Tuomilehto J(2)(12)(13)(14), Laatikainen T(2)(15), 
Ngandu T(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Clinicum, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Department of Public Health, Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, 
Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Institute of Clinical Medicine, Neurology, University of Eastern Finland, 
Kuopio, Finland.
(4)Department of Geriatrics, HUS Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(5)Center of Life Course Health Research, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(6)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Care Sciences 
and Society (NVS), Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit (AGE), School of Public Health, Imperial 
College London, London, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
(8)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(9)Faculty of Social Sciences (Health Sciences) and Gerontology Research Center 
(GEREC), Tampere University, Tampere, Finland.
(10)Medical Research Center, Oulu University Hospital,  Oulu, Finland.
(11)Department of Neurology, Kuopio University Hospital, Neurocenter, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(12)National School of Public Health, Madrid, Spain.
(13)South Otsrobothnia Central Hospital, Seinäjoki, Finland.
(14)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(15)Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Frailty often precedes and co-occurs with dementia. A multidomain 
lifestyle intervention has shown favourable effects on cognition. We aimed to 
investigate if frailty status modifies this intervention effect.
METHODS: The Finnish Geriatric Intervention Study to Prevent Cognitive 
Impairment and Disability (FINGER) recruited 1259 participants aged 60-77 years 
who were at risk of dementia. They were randomised to receive a multidomain 
intervention (diet, exercise, cognitive training and vascular risk monitoring) 
or regular health advice for two years. The outcome was a change in cognition 
(neuropsychological test battery composite score). Frailty and prefrailty were 
defined according to the Fried phenotype. Mixed models were used to investigate 
if frailty status at baseline modified the intervention effect on cognition.
RESULTS: Frailty status (prefrail/frail n = 520, robust n = 625) at baseline did 
not modify the effect of intervention on global cognition during the 2-year 
follow-up (P-value for frailty × intervention × time interaction > .05). 
Concerning cognitive subdomains, similar results were found. Among 
prefrail/frail persons, within-group analyses suggested a beneficial 
intervention effect on executive function and processing speed and also on 
global cognition when frail participants (n = 15) were excluded from the 
analyses. Being prefrail/frail was related to less improvement in global 
cognition, memory and executive function domains compared with being robust when 
intervention was not taken into consideration.
CONCLUSIONS: A multidomain intervention is likely to be beneficial to cognition 
regardless of frailty status. Prefrail participants seemed particularly 
responsive to preventive intervention. Thus, an optimal time for a multidomain 
lifestyle intervention may be at the prefrailty stage.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afaf041
PMCID: PMC11878527
PMID: 40036319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


93. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Mar 3;8(3):e250014. doi:
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.0014.

Hospice Use Among Medicare Beneficiaries With Parkinson Disease and Dementia 
With Lewy Bodies.

Bock M(1), Gan S(1), Aldridge M(2), Harrison KL(1)(3)(4), Yaffe 
K(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Smith AK(1), Boscardin J(1)(4), Hunt LJ(3)(4)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco.
(2)Brookdale Department of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.
(3)Philip R. Lee Institute for Health Policy Studies, University of California, 
San Francisco.
(4)Global Brain Health Institute, University of California, San Francisco.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California, San 
Francisco.
(7)San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, California.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco.
(9)School of Nursing, University of California, San Francisco.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.0021.

IMPORTANCE: Neurodegenerative disorders are now the most common reason that 
Medicare beneficiaries enroll in hospice for end-of-life care. People with 
all-cause dementia have high rates of suboptimal hospice use, but little is 
known about hospice use patterns in Lewy body disease, which includes both 
Parkinson disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB).
OBJECTIVE: To compare patient characteristics, hospice agency characteristics, 
and patterns of use for beneficiaries with PD and DLB vs Alzheimer disease (AD).
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A retrospective cohort study including a 100% 
sample of national 2010-2020 calendar year Medicare data on hospice enrollees 
was performed. Data analysis was conducted from November 2023 to May 2024.
EXPOSURES: A diagnosis of PD or DLB, compared with AD as the reference group.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Proportion of enrollees with short stays (<7 days), 
proportion with long stays (>180 days), proportion disenrolled for any reason 
before death, and disenrollment by type.
RESULTS: Of 11 327 324 Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in hospice between 2010 
and 2020 who met eligibility criteria (mean [SD] age, 85.2 [7.5] years; 781 763 
[63.0%] female), there were 958 182 (8.4%) with a primary diagnosis of AD, 
232 864 (2.1%) with PD, and 49 340 (0.4%) with DLB. People with PD were more 
likely to experience a long stay (odds ratio [OR], 1.15; 95% CI, 1.13-1.16) 
compared with AD, whereas the odds for those with DLB were not increased. 
However, people with either PD or DLB were less likely to be disenrolled for 
extended prognosis compared with AD (OR for DLB, 0.82; 95% CI, 0.79-0.85; OR for 
PD, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.85-0.88). People with PD were more likely to revoke hospice 
(OR, 1.29; 95% CI, 1.27-1.32) compared with AD.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this cohort study of Medicare beneficiaries, 
hospice use patterns differed by dementia subtype. Higher likelihood of hospice 
revocation in PD raises important questions about unmet needs and highlights the 
need for more research around the experience of the end of life in this growing 
population.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.0014
PMCID: PMC11880951
PMID: 40036035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Harrison 
reported receiving grants from the National Institutes of Health National 
Institute on Aging (NIA) outside the submitted work. No other disclosures were 
reported.


94. Neurochem Res. 2025 Mar 4;50(2):112. doi: 10.1007/s11064-025-04361-7.

Systemic Rejuvenating Interventions: Perspectives on Neuroinflammation and 
Blood-Brain Barrier Integrity.

de Rezende VL(1)(2), de Aguiar da Costa M(1)(2), Martins CD(1)(2), Mathias 
K(1)(2)(3), Gonçalves CL(1)(2), Barichello T(1)(2)(4), Petronilho F(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Neurology, Graduate Program in Health Sciences, 
University of Southern Santa Catarina (UNESC), Criciúma, SC, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Neurobiology of Inflammatory and Metabolic Processes, Graduate 
Program in Health Sciences, Health Sciences Unit, University of South Santa 
Catarina, Tubarao, SC, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Immunoparasitology, Graduate Program in Health Sciences, Health 
Sciences Unit, University of South Santa Catarina, Tubarão, SC, Brazil.
(4)Faillace Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Translational 
Psychiatry Program, Mcgovern Medical School, The University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Houston (Uthealth), Houston, TX, USA.
(5)Laboratory of Experimental Neurology, Graduate Program in Health Sciences, 
University of Southern Santa Catarina (UNESC), Criciúma, SC, Brazil. 
fabriciapetronilho@unesc.net.
(6)Laboratory of Neurobiology of Inflammatory and Metabolic Processes, Graduate 
Program in Health Sciences, Health Sciences Unit, University of South Santa 
Catarina, Tubarao, SC, Brazil. fabriciapetronilho@unesc.net.
(7)Laboratory of Experimental Neurology, Graduate Program in Health Sciences, 
Universidade do Extremo Sul Catarinense, 1105, Criciúma, SC, 88806-000, Brazil. 
fabriciapetronilho@unesc.net.

The aging process results in structural, functional, and immunological changes 
in the brain, which contribute to cognitive decline and increase vulnerability 
to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), and stroke-related complications. Aging leads to cognitive changes 
and also affect executive functions. Additionally, it causes neurogenic and 
neurochemical alterations, such as a decline in dopamine and acetylcholine 
levels, which also impact cognitive performance. The chronic inflammation caused 
by aging contributes to the impairment of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), 
contributing to the infiltration of immune cells and exacerbating neuronal 
damage. Therefore, rejuvenating therapies such as heterochronic parabiosis, 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) administration, plasma, platelet-rich plasma (PRP), 
and stem cell therapy have shown potential to reverse these changes, offering 
new perspectives in the treatment of age-related neurological diseases. This 
review focuses on highlighting the effects of rejuvenating interventions on 
neuroinflammation and the BBB.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-025-04361-7
PMID: 40035979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose.


95. Mol Divers. 2025 Mar 4. doi: 10.1007/s11030-025-11129-2. Online ahead of
print.

Development of novel melatonin-isatin hybrids as multifunctional agents for 
Alzheimer's disease.

Zhong YY(#)(1), Deng JZ(#)(1), Wang Q(2), Chen L(1), Yang ZH(1), Zhang YM(1), 
Zhou LY(1), Li YR(1), Wu JQ(3), Wang XQ(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, 523808, 
Guangdong, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, 523808, 
Guangdong, China. wangxqhb@163.com.
(3)School of Biotechnology and Health Sciences, Wuyi University, Jiangmen, 
529020, China.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, 523808, 
Guangdong, China. wangxqgdmu@hotmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

The development of multifunctional agents has been a heated area of research for 
AD treatment in recent years. In this work, a series of melatonin-isatin hybrids 
were designed, synthesized, and evaluated as multifunctional agents for treating 
AD. In vitro studies indicated that most of the synthesized compounds displayed 
moderate to good MAO-B inhibition activities and good antioxidant activities. In 
particular, compounds IM-5 and IM-10 exhibited the best inhibitory activities 
with IC50 value of 12.4 μM and 15.6 μM against MAO-B, and potent antioxidant 
activities with their ORAC-FL values of 4.6 and 5.2 at 5 μM, respectively. ThT 
assay revealed compounds IM-5 and IM-10 exhibited the optimal Aβ1-42 
self-induced aggregation inhibitory activities with the inhibition ratio of 
72.8% and 69.7% at 20 μM. In addition, compounds IM-5 and IM-10 exhibited low 
cytotoxicities and significant neuroprotective effects on Aβ1-42-induced and 
H2O2-induced SH-SY5Y cell injury. More importantly, compounds IM-5 and IM-10 
could significantly ameliorate the memory impairment and cognition injury in 
scopolamine-induced mice. The SwissADME program was used to predict drug-like 
properties of compounds IM-5 and IM-10 which exhibited they had good 
pharmacokinetics and drug-likeness properties. Molecular docking study further 
manifested that compounds IM-5 and IM-10 showed high hMAO-B inhibitory potency. 
In summary, all above results revealed compounds IM-5 and IM-10 might be 
promising multifunctional agents for AD treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s11030-025-11129-2
PMID: 40035974

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


96. Plant Foods Hum Nutr. 2025 Mar 4;80(1):85. doi: 10.1007/s11130-025-01322-x.

Pea Peptides and Heavy Metal Neurotoxicity: Exploring Mechanisms and Mitigation 
Strategies in PC12 Cells.

Li N(1), Cui N(2), Li T(2), Zhao P(2), Bakry IA(2), Li Q(2), Cheng Y(2), 
Galaverna G(3), Yang H(2), Wang F(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Henan Agricultural University, 63# 
Agricultural Road, Zhengzhou, 450000, China. ln8028@163.com.
(2)College of Food Science and Technology, Henan Agricultural University, 63# 
Agricultural Road, Zhengzhou, 450000, China.
(3)Key Laboratory for Animal Immunology, Henan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
116# Huayuan Road, Zhengzhou, 450002, PR China.
(4)Key Laboratory for Animal Immunology, Henan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
116# Huayuan Road, Zhengzhou, 450002, PR China. sprinkle.w@126.com.
(5)Food and Drug Department, University of Parma, Parco Area delle Scienze, 
17/a, Parma, 43124, Italy. sprinkle.w@126.com.

Calsyntenin-1 (Clst1) is a sensitive indicator of lead (Pb) toxicity in neural 
tissue. This study was designed to investigate the impact of lead exposure on 
Clst1 expression in PC12 cells and the mitigating effect of pea peptide 4 (PP4) 
on lead-induced neurotoxicity. Data showed that lead exposure, at varying doses 
and durations, disrupted the mRNA expression and protein levels of Clstn1 in 
PC12 cells. However, immunofluorescence results showed that treatment with PP4 
significantly increased Clstn1 protein expression in the Pb + PP4 and PP4 groups 
compared to the Pb groups (P < 0.05). Lead exposure activates the JNK and p38 
pathways; at the same time, PP4 treatment enhances ERK pathway activation and 
reduces JNK and p38 activation.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11130-025-01322-x
PMID: 40035902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. 
Competing Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


97. Chem Commun (Camb). 2025 Mar 19;61(24):4586-4594. doi: 10.1039/d4cc05280c.

Unnatural foldamers as inhibitors of Aβ aggregation via stabilizing the Aβ 
helix.

Liu H(1), Zhao X(1), Chen J(1), Win YY(1), Cai J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of South Florida, 4202 E. Fowler Ave, 
Tampa, FL, 33620, USA. jianfengcai@usf.edu.

Protein aggregation is a critical factor in the development and progression of 
several human diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Huntington's 
disease, Parkinson's disease, and type 2 diabetes. Among these conditions, AD is 
recognized as the most prevalent progressive neurodegenerative disorder, 
characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-beta (Aβ) peptides. Neuronal 
toxicity is likely driven by soluble oligomeric intermediates of the Aβ peptide, 
which are thought to play a central role in the cascade leading to neuronal 
dysfunction and cognitive decline. In response, numerous therapeutic strategies 
have been developed to inhibit Aβ oligomerization, as this is believed to delay 
the formation of Aβ protofibrils. Traditional research has focused on 
discovering small molecules or peptides that antagonize Aβ oligomerization. 
However, recent studies have explored an alternative approach-developing ligands 
that stabilize the Aβ peptide in its α-helical conformation. This stabilization 
is thought to alter the peptide's natural aggregation kinetics, shifting it away 
from toxic oligomer formation and toward less harmful states. Crucially, by 
maintaining Aβ in this α-helical form, these ligands have been shown to rescue 
the peptide's associated cytotoxicity, offering a promising mechanism to 
mitigate the detrimental effects of Aβ in AD. While challenges remain, including 
treatment costs and side effects like ARIA (amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities), anti-Aβ drug development represents a major advancement in 
Alzheimer's research and therapeutic options. This brief review aims to 
highlight the development and potential of these α-helix-stabilizing ligands as 
antagonists of Aβ aggregation, focusing on their interactions with Aβ and how 
these compounds induce and maintain secondary structural changes in the Aβ 
peptide. Notably, this innovative strategy holds promise beyond Aβ-related 
pathology, as the fundamental principles could be applied to other amyloidogenic 
proteins implicated in various amyloid-related diseases, potentially broadening 
the scope of therapeutic intervention for multiple neurodegenerative conditions.

DOI: 10.1039/d4cc05280c
PMCID: PMC11878269
PMID: 40035705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts to declare.


98. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Feb 21:2025.02.18.25322482. doi: 
10.1101/2025.02.18.25322482.

A technology-based randomized controlled trial of self-affirmation and 
gain-framed health messaging to reduce sedentary behavior in older adults.

Ai M(1), Thovinakere N(2)(3), Walker CS(2), Ordway C(1), Quinoñez E(1), Melsky 
E(1), D'Agostino F(4), Tobias C(1), Whitfield-Gabrieli S(1)(5), Phillips SM(6), 
Pindus DM(7)(8)(9), Hilman C(1), Morris TP(10)(11), Kramer AF(1)(10)(7), Geddes 
MR(1)(2)(3)(12)(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)The Neuro, Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, 
McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Rotman Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(4)Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(5)Anthinoula A. Martinos Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown, 
MA, USA.
(6)Department of Preventive Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(7)Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, University of Illinois 
at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA.
(8)Department of Health and Kinesiology, the University of Illinois 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA.
(9)Neuroscience Program, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, 
USA.
(10)Center for Cognitive & Brain Health, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(11)Department of Physical Therapy, Movement and Rehabilitation Sciences, 
Northeastern University, Boston, MA, USA.
(12)Centre for Studies in the Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease, Douglas Mental 
Health Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(13)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(14)McGill University Research Centre for Studies in Aging, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Sedentary behavior significantly increases the risk for chronic 
diseases and cognitive decline in aging, underscoring the need for effective 
interventions. Older adults exhibit a 'positivity effect', whereby processing of 
positive information is prioritized over negative information. In addition, 
self-affirmation was shown to reduce sedentary behavior in younger adults, but 
its effects in older adults remain unknown. This study tested a novel, 
technology-based intervention combining daily self-affirmation and gain-framed 
health messages to reduce sedentary behavior in older adults.
METHODS: In a 6-week randomized controlled trial (NCT0431536), 48 cognitively 
unimpaired, sedentary older adults were randomized into two groups: The 
intervention group (mean age=70.0±5.4years) completed daily self-affirmation 
based on their highest-ranked value, followed by gain-framed health messages. 
The active control group (mean age=68.4±5.0years) performed self-affirmation on 
their lowest-ranked value, followed by loss-framed messages. This was a 
single-blinded clinical trial that incorporated a hybrid efficacy and 
implementation design. Thus, information about intervention feasibility was 
examined. In addition, baseline motivational traits, including reward 
sensitivity, were assessed as moderators of behavior change. The neural basis of 
self-affirmation and gain-framed health messaging was examined at baseline using 
a task-based, event-related fMRI paradigm across groups, after randomization at 
the outset of the intervention.
RESULTS: The intervention showed high adherence (0.92±0.08) and positive 
ease-of-use ratings. While the intervention did not significantly reduce 
sedentary behavior compared to the active control condition, increased reward 
sensitivity predicted reduced sedentary behavior across all participants. FMRI 
results showed increased ventral striatal activation in the intervention group, 
compared to the active control group during reading of gain-framed compared to 
neutral messages.
CONCLUSIONS: This study supports the feasibility of technology-based sedentary 
beahvior reduction interventions for older adults. While self-affirmation 
combined with gain-framed messaging did not significantly reduce sedentary 
behavior, gain-framed messages engaged the reward network, and reward 
sensitivity predicted future reduction in sedentary behavior.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.02.18.25322482
PMCID: PMC11875261
PMID: 40034793


99. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Feb 21:2025.02.18.25322498. doi: 
10.1101/2025.02.18.25322498.

Harnessing Greater Statistical Power: Comprehensive Evaluation of Disease 
Modifying Treatment Effects Across All or Multiple Post-Baseline Visits Compared 
to the Last Visit for Alzheimer's Disease Clinical Trials.

Wang G(1)(2), Chen T(3), O'Gorman J(3), Li Y(1), Li C(4), Guizzetti L(4), Mangal 
B(5), Wang W(6), Wu S(3), Inman D(7), McDade E(1), Bateman RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis, St Louis, 63130, 
USA.
(2)Division of Biostatistics, Washington University in St. Louis, 63130, USA.
(3)Biogen Inc., 225 Binney Street, Cambridge, 02142, USA.
(4)Alector, Inc., South San Francisco, 94080, United States.
(5)Solara Consulting Corp., 2311 Swinburne Ave. North Vancouver, BC V7H 3A6, 
Canada.
(6)Tenaya Therapeutics, South San Francisco, 94080, United States.
(7)GlaxoSmithKline Medicines Research Centre, Stevenage, SG1 2NY, UK.

Update in
    J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(4):1272-1287. doi: 10.1177/13872877251352189.

BACKGROUND: In Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical trials, efficacy inference is 
traditionally based on the last visit (e.g., 18 months). However, recent studies 
suggest that disease-modifying treatment effects may emerge as early as 3 months 
post-baseline.
OBJECTIVE: To explore this further, our study aimed to assess the increased 
statistical power achieved by incorporating all or multiple post-baseline visits 
to estimate treatment effect, compared to relying solely on the last visit.
METHODS: We developed explicit formulas for the base functions of the natural 
cubic spline model, ensuring compatibility with standard SAS procedures. Through 
simulations using disease progression trajectories from ClarityAD and 
TRAILBLAZER-ALZ2 trials, we comprehensively evaluated various models in terms of 
power and type I error. Additionally, we offer SAS codes that to facilitate 
seamless implementation of different modeling approaches.
RESULTS: Simulations based on ClarityAD and TRAILBLAZER-ALZ2 disease 
trajectories demonstrated that models incorporating multiple or all 
post-baseline visits yield greater power than those using only the last visit, 
while maintaining Type I error control. Furthermore, when three post-baseline 
visits were included, adding more visits resulted in minimal power gains.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support prioritizing statistical models that 
incorporate multiple or all post-baseline visits for treatment efficacy 
inference, as they offer greater efficiency than models relying solely on the 
last visit.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.02.18.25322498
PMCID: PMC11875270
PMID: 40034790


100. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Feb 20:2025.02.17.25322322. doi: 
10.1101/2025.02.17.25322322.

Clinical Progression on CDR-SB(©): Progression Free Time at Each 0.5-unit Level 
in Dominantly Inherited and Sporadic Alzheimer's Disease Populations.

Wang G(1)(2), Li Y(1), McDade E(1), Xiong C(2), Hartz SM(3), Bateman RJ(1), 
Morris JC(1), Schneider LS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University, School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, 63130, United States.
(2)Division of Biostatistics, Washington University School of Medicine in St. 
Louis, 660 S. Euclid Ave, St. Louis, MO 63110.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine in St. 
Louis, 660 S. Euclid Ave, St. Louis, MO 63110.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and The Behavioral Sciences, Department of 
Neurology, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, 90033, United States.

Update in
    Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Sep;21(9):e70643. doi: 10.1002/alz.70643.

INTRODUCTION: CDR-SB is a reliable and clinically meaningful composite for 
assessing treatment effects in Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical trials. Small 
CDR-SB differences at the end of a trial often lead to controversy in deriving 
clinically meaningful interpretations.
METHODS: We estimated progression-free time participants remained at each 
0.5-unit CDR-SB increment in dominantly inherited AD (DIAD) and sporadic AD 
populations, evaluating its potential as an alternative measure of treatment 
effects.
RESULTS: Progression-free time is longer at CDR-SB ≤ 2.0 (1-2 years) and shorter 
at CDR-SB ≥ 5 (0.33 or less) in the ADNI cohort. The DIAD cohort showed similar 
but shorter times. Using progression-free time, continuous lecanemab treatment 
for three years is estimated to delay disease progression by 0.7 years in the 
sporadic population.
DISCUSSION: Progression-free time provides a benchmark for expressing clinical 
progression and treatment effects and can be applied particularly during 
open-label extensions and single-arm trials without placebo comparisons.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.02.17.25322322
PMCID: PMC11875246
PMID: 40034778