1. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2025 Jun 17;80:100673. doi: 10.1016/j.clinsp.2025.100673.
 Online ahead of print.

Recognition and diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease using T1-weighted magnetic 
resonance imaging via integrating CNN and Swin vision transformer.

Wang Y(1), Sheng H(2), Wang X(3).

Author information:
(1)Shandong University of Political Science and Law, Jinan, 250000, Shandong, 
China. Electronic address: wangyanlei@sdupsl.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Radiology, Yantaishan Hospital, Yantai, 264000, Shandong, 
China.
(3)Department of Radiology, Yantaishan Hospital, Yantai, 264000, Shandong, 
China. Electronic address: m15315561072@163.com.

PURPOSE: Alzheimer's disease is a debilitating neurological disorder that 
requires accurate diagnosis for the most effective therapy and care.
METHODS: This article presents a new vision transformer model specifically 
created to evaluate magnetic resonance imaging data from the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative dataset in order to categorize cases of Alzheimer's 
disease. Contrary to models that rely on convolutional neural networks, the 
vision transformer has the ability to capture large relationships between 
far-apart pixels in the images. The suggested architecture has shown exceptional 
outcomes, as its precision has emphasized its capacity to detect and distinguish 
significant characteristics from MRI scans, hence enabling the precise 
classification of Alzheimer's disease subtypes and various stages. The model 
utilizes both the elements from convolutional neural network and vision 
transformer models to extract both local and global visual patterns, 
facilitating the accurate categorization of various Alzheimer's disease 
classifications. We specifically focus on the term 'dementia in patients with 
Alzheimer's disease' to describe individuals who have progressed to the dementia 
stage as a result of AD, distinguishing them from those in earlier stages of the 
disease.
RESULTS: Precise categorization of Alzheimer's disease has significant 
therapeutic importance, as it enables timely identification, tailored treatment 
strategies, disease monitoring, and prognostic assessment.
CONCLUSION: The stated high accuracy indicates that the suggested vision 
transformer model has the capacity to assist healthcare providers and 
researchers in generating well-informed and precise evaluations of individuals 
with Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 HCFMUSP. Published by Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinsp.2025.100673
PMCID: PMC12212162
PMID: 40532357

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. J Neurol Sci. 2025 Aug 15;475:123585. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2025.123585. Epub
2025  Jun 16.

Microglia energy metabolism: A new perspective on Alzheimer's disease treatment.

Wu QL(1), Yang X(2), Luo JX(1), Liu L(1), Zhou Y(1), Lu MH(3).

Author information:
(1)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Sichuan-Chongqing Co-construction for Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Infectious Diseases Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine, College of Medical Technology, Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, China.
(2)Public Health Clinical Center of Chengdu, Chengdu 610011, China.
(3)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Sichuan-Chongqing Co-construction for Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Infectious Diseases Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine, College of Medical Technology, Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, China. Electronic address: 
lmh0929@cdutcm.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive age-associated neurodegenerative 
disorder characterized by systemic cerebral metabolic disturbances. Neuroimaging 
and biochemical analyses reveal three hallmark features: decreased glucose 
utilization, mitochondrial bioenergetic deficits, and impaired energy 
homeostasis within hippocampal circuits. Emerging evidence highlights the 
pivotal role of microglia, the brain's specialized immune guardians, whose 
metabolic plasticity forms a self-reinforcing pathological cycle with AD 
progression. During early disease stages, oxidative phosphorylation 
(OXPHOS)-dependent M2 microglia mediate neuroprotective functions through 
efficient β-amyloid (Aβ) phagocytosis. However, progressive metabolic 
reprogramming drives a pathological shift toward glycolysis-dominant M1, 
characterized by heightened proinflammatory cytokine secretion and compromised 
clearance capacity. Notably, AD-associated pathological aggregates disrupt 
microglial metabolic adaptation, suppress mitophagy processes, and perpetuate 
sustained neuroinflammatory responses. The metabolic flexibility of microglia 
allows them to adapt to different energy demands. This study reviews the roles 
of major metabolic pathways and metabolic regulators of microglia in AD and the 
link between AD pathology and microglia energy metabolism, and describes the 
potential of relevant drugs and non-drug approaches in AD treatment, revealing 
metabolic regulation as a new target for AD therapy.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2025.123585
PMID: 40532315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


3. J Craniofac Surg. 2025 Sep 1;36(6):2160-2163. doi:
10.1097/SCS.0000000000011535.  Epub 2025 Jun 18.

A Novel Microsurgical Model of Cervical Lymph Node-to-Vein Anastomosis (LNVA) 
for Studying Brain Lymphatic Outflow.

Fang R(1), Jin L(2)(3)(4), Lu H(1), Xie Q(5), Yang X(1), Kueckelhaus M(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Hand & 
Reconstructive Surgery, Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital, Affiliated 
People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Plastic Surgery, University Hospital Muenster.
(3)Department of Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery, Hand Surgery, 
Fachklinik Hornheide.
(4)Institute of Musculoskeletal Medicine, University Hospital Muenster, 
Muenster, Germany.
(5)Qiushi Hospital, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.

BACKGROUND: Cervical lymphaticovenous bypass has recently emerged as an 
innovative surgical approach to enhance brain lymphatic clearance for the 
treatment of Alzheimer disease (AD). Although early clinical findings are 
promising, the absence of a reproducible preclinical model has hindered 
mechanistic investigations and translational advancements.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to establish the first rat model for cervical LVA, 
addressing technical challenges and providing a standardized platform for 
preclinical research on lymphatic clearance and its role in neurodegeneration.
METHODS: Rats underwent bilateral cervical LNVA using high-magnification 
supermicrosurgical techniques. After identification of the deep cervical lymph 
nodes, end-to-side lymph node-to-venous anastomosis was performed. Anastomotic 
patency was confirmed intraoperatively by direct visualization without leakage. 
Indocyanine green (ICG) lymphangiography, performed through nasal 
administration, demonstrated fluorescence drainage into the external jugular 
vein.
RESULTS: With progressive refinement of microsurgical skills and improved 
anatomic familiarity, procedural stability was achieved. In the final cohort of 
5 rats, all LVA procedures resulted in successful anastomotic patency.
CONCLUSION: This study is the first to establish a rat model of cervical deep 
lymph node-venous anastomosis (LNVA), offering a novel microsurgical platform 
with dual value. On one hand, it serves as a technically demanding and 
reproducible model for advanced training in plastic and lymphatic surgery. On 
the other, it provides a structurally precise, gain-of-function approach for 
targeted intervention of the deep cervical lymph nodes-an anatomic hub 
increasingly implicated in brain lymphatic clearance and neurodegeneration. As 
such, this model may contribute meaningfully to future mechanistic studies on 
glymphatic function and its modulation.

Copyright © 2025 by Mutaz B. Habal, MD.

DOI: 10.1097/SCS.0000000000011535
PMID: 40531514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


4. Pharmacol Res Perspect. 2025 Aug;13(4):e70131. doi: 10.1002/prp2.70131.

Multi-Target Drug Design in Alzheimer's Disease Treatment: Emerging 
Technologies, Advantages, Challenges, and Limitations.

Hossain MS(1), Hussain MH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, East West University, 
Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex and multifactorial neurodegenerative 
disorder, recognized as the most prevalent form of dementia. It is characterized 
by multiple pathological processes, including amyloid-beta accumulation, 
neurofibrillary tangles, and neuroinflammation. The therapeutic efficacy of 
traditional single-target drugs has been limited, failing to cure, halt, or 
reverse disease progression. Therefore, this complex disease warrants 
comprehensive therapeutic strategies like multi-target drug design (MTDD). MTDD 
represents a promising strategy to target multiple pathological pathways 
concurrently. The integration of advanced technologies, including artificial 
intelligence, machine learning, and nanomedicine, can further enhance the 
precision and effectiveness of MTDD. This review explores various MTDD 
approaches, including multi-target-directed ligands, multi-target compound 
combinations, and polypharmacology. These strategies aim to address the 
multifaceted nature of AD pathology more effectively than single-target 
approaches. MTDD offers key advantages, including pathway-level synergy, broader 
therapeutic scope, and potential for improved efficacy. However, MTDD faces 
various challenges and limitations, such as the complexity of drug design, 
difficulty of crossing the blood-brain barrier, and regulatory hurdles. Despite 
these challenges, recent advancements in computational methods and drug delivery 
systems show promise in overcoming these barriers. Future research should focus 
on optimizing delivery systems, improving in silico modeling, and translating 
multi-target strategies into clinically viable therapies for AD. This review 
addresses these needs by critically analyzing recent technologies, advantages, 
challenges, limitations, and future directions of MTDD, underscoring its 
potential to transform AD treatment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Pharmacology Research & Perspectives published by British 
Pharmacological Society and American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental 
Therapeutics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/prp2.70131
PMCID: PMC12175645
PMID: 40531439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


5. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Oct;62(10):13413-13429. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05147-2. 
Epub 2025 Jun 18.

Unveiling Moxibustion's Impact on AD Mice Learning and Memory: Role of 
Mitochondrial Respiratory Chain Complex I Subunit in the Hippocampus.

Shen Y(#)(1), Li HY(#)(1), Yang QQ(#)(1), Zhang K(1), Liu SQ(1), Zhang N(1), Li 
CY(1), Yu SG(1), Xie LS(2), Wu QF(3).

Author information:
(1)Acupuncture and Moxibustion School, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, 610075, Sichuan, China.
(2)College of Basic Medicine, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, 610075, Sichuan, China. xielushuang@cdutcm.edu.cn.
(3)Acupuncture and Moxibustion School, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, 610075, Sichuan, China. wuqiaofeng@cdutcm.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized 
by significant impairment in energy metabolism. Our previous studies have 
demonstrated that moxibustion can ameliorate cognitive dysfunction by enhancing 
brain energy metabolism in individuals with AD, yet its fundamental mechanism 
remains incompletely understood. In this study, spatial transcriptomics, 
biochemical assays, and transmission electron microscopy were utilized to 
identify differentially expressed genes related to metabolism and their 
functions, as well as to determine the key metabolic genes influenced by 
moxibustion. Moxibustion significantly promote spatial learning and memory 
ability, while reducing the production of hippocampal pathological markers in 
APP/PS1 mice. Respiratory chain complex I may play an important role in 
regulating energy metabolism in the hippocampus during moxibustion. 
Additionally, moxibustion also elevated co-expression of PSD95/SYN, which 
exhibited a positive correlation with energy metabolism. Thus moxibustion has 
the potential to improve energy metabolism and synaptic plasticity in the 
hippocampus, subsequently ameliorating learning and memory impairments.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05147-2
PMID: 40531365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: All animal 
experiment protocols received approval from the Committee on Ethical Use of 
Animals of Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine (Ethical approval 
number: 2019–05). Competing interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


6. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2025 Jun;34(6):519-526. doi: 
10.1080/13543784.2025.2522885. Epub 2025 Jul 11.

Acetylcholine and muscarinic receptor targeting in bipolar disorder: does 
xanomeline-trospium chloride and other investigational muscarinic agonists hold 
promise as mechanistically informed treatments for manic episodes, mixed 
features and cognitive deficits in bipolar disorder?

McIntyre RS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
ON, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Xanomeline-trospium chloride (Cobenfy, KarXT) received FDA 
approval on September 26, 2024, for the treatment of adults with schizophrenia. 
Xanomeline-trospium chloride is the first muscarinic M1, M4 acetylcholine 
receptor partial agonist approved to treat schizophrenia. Preliminary evidence 
also indicates that xanomeline-trospium chloride improves measures of cognition 
in Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia.
AREAS COVERED: Acetylcholine's physiology as well as evidence implicating 
disturbance in acetylcholine availability and/or its canonical receptors in 
mania and cognitive impairment in bipolar disorder is synthesized. Extant 
efficacy, safety and tolerability data for xanomeline-trospium chloride in 
adults with schizophrenia are reviewed. Xanomeline-trospium chloride's clinical 
and pharmacological profile provides rationale for investigating its efficacy, 
safety and tolerability in the treatment of manic episodes, mixed features and 
cognitive impairment associated with bipolar disorder.
EXPERT OPINION: Xanomeline-trospium chloride is a mechanistically novel 
treatment for schizophrenia targeting cholinergic receptors as opposed to 
dopamine receptors and may have transdiagnostic efficacy in mania, mixed 
features and/or cognitive impairment in bipolar disorder. Xanomeline-trospium 
chloride is safe and generally well tolerated and does not have depressogenic 
effects and/or increased suicidality in adults with schizophrenia. Whether other 
investigational muscarinic agonists (e.g. positive allosteric modulator [PAM] or 
orthosteric agonism of M4) are potentially efficacious in mania and/or cognitive 
impairment in bipolar disorder is a priority future research avenue.

DOI: 10.1080/13543784.2025.2522885
PMID: 40531190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. ACS Chem Biol. 2025 Jul 18;20(7):1544-1559. doi: 10.1021/acschembio.5c00110. 
Epub 2025 Jun 18.

High-Throughput Screening of Potent Drug-like Molecules Targeting 17β-HSD10 for 
the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease and Cancer.

Aitken L(1), Baillie G(2), Pannifer A(3), Morrison A(2), Major LL(4), Alphey 
MS(4), Sethi R(5), Timmerman M(6), Robinson J(2), Riley J(7), Shishikura Y(7), 
Koekemoer L(8), Von Delft F(8), Rutjes H(6), Read KD(7), Jones PS(2), McElroy 
SP(2), Smith TK(1)(4), Gunn-Moore FJ(4).

Author information:
(1)University of St. Andrews School of Chemistry, Biomolecular Sciences 
Building, North Haugh, St. Andrews KY16 9TF, U.K.
(2)BioAscent Discovery Ltd, Bo'Ness Road, Newhouse, Lanarkshire ML1 5UH, U.K.
(3)Excientia, Oxford Science Park, The Schrödinger Building, Oxford OX4 4GE, 
U.K.
(4)Biomedical Science Research Complex, University of St. Andrews School of 
Biology, North Haugh, St. Andrews KY16 9ST, U.K.
(5)Glaxo Smith Kline Biologicals, rue de l'Institut 89, 1330 Rixensart, Belgium.
(6)European Lead Factory, Pivot Park-Banting Building (RE600), Kloosterstraat 9, 
5349 AB Oss, The Netherlands.
(7)Wellcome Centre of Anti-infectives Research, Drug Discovery Unit, University 
of Dundee School of Life Sciences, Dow Street, Dundee DD1 5EH, U.K.
(8)University of Oxford Centre for Medicines Discovery, Old Road Campus Research 
Building, Oxford OX3 7FZ, U.K.

In this study, the first industrial-scale high-throughput screening of nearly 
350,000 drug-like molecules targeting the enzyme 17β-HSD10, a promising 
therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease and cancers, is presented. Two novel 
series of potent 17β-HSD10 inhibitors that demonstrate low nanomolar potency 
against both the enzyme and in vivo cellular assays with minimal cytotoxicity 
were identified. These inhibitors were characterized further through a series of 
assays demonstrating ligand-protein interactions and co-crystallography, 
revealing un-/non-competitive inhibition with respect to the cofactor NADH, 
unlike previously published inhibitors. This work significantly advances the 
development of 17β-HSD10-targeting therapeutics, offering new potential leads 
for treating Alzheimer's disease and cancers.

DOI: 10.1021/acschembio.5c00110
PMCID: PMC12281485
PMID: 40530895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70337. doi: 10.1002/alz.70337.

The neurobiological foundation of effective repetitive transcranial magnetic 
brain stimulation in Alzheimer's disease.

Antonioni A(1), Martorana A(2), Santarnecchi E(3), Hampel H(4), Koch G(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, 
Ferrara, Italy.
(2)Memory Clinic, Department of Systems Medicine, University of Tor Vergata, 
Rome, Italy.
(3)Gordon Center for Medical Imaging, Mass General Research Institute, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Sorbonne University, Alzheimer Precision Medicine (APM), AP-HP, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 47-83 Bd de l'Hôpital, Paris, France.
(5)Experimental Neuropsychophysiology Lab, Department of Clinical and 
Behavioural Neurology, Santa Lucia Foundation IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(6)Center for Translational Neurophysiology of Speech and Communication (CTNSC), 
Italian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ferrara, Italy.

Noninvasive brain stimulation (NIBS) techniques, such as repetitive transcranial 
magnetic stimulation (rTMS), are promising candidate therapeutics for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). We review the evidence supporting the fundamental 
mechanisms of action of rTMS treatments in AD. rTMS exerts profound effects at 
different neurobiological and systems neurophysiological levels. By engaging 
distinct pre- and postsynaptic structures within the stimulated neural network, 
it directly or indirectly influences various cellular and molecular components. 
In AD, rTMS influences synaptic plasticity, inducing lasting structural changes 
and broad reorganization of functional and structural connectivity at the 
macroscale level. Importantly, it modulates neurotransmitter circuits 
characteristically disrupted in AD and restores the excitation/inhibition 
balance by targeting glutamatergic and γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic pathways. 
Moreover, rTMS increases neurotrophic factors, counteracts amyloid and tau 
accumulation, and mitigates neuroinflammation by reducing microglial activation 
and pro-inflammatory cytokines release. Therefore, maturing preclinical evidence 
could guide future precision medicine therapeutic strategies based on 
personalized NIBS in AD patients. HIGHLIGHTS: Noninvasive brain stimulation 
(NIBS) techniques, such as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), 
are promising candidate therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease (AD). rTMS 
modulates neuroplasticity, neurotransmission, and neuroinflammation. Preclinical 
research shows disease-specific neurobiological effects of rTMS in AD. Promising 
data from AD patients suggest the translatability of animal model results. 
Preclinical data may guide precision medicine strategies through personalized 
NIBS.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70337
PMCID: PMC12175030
PMID: 40530618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Annibale Antonioni declares no conflicts of 
interest related to this manuscript. Giacomo Koch is scientific co‐founder and 
holds stocks of Sinaptica Therapeutics. Giacomo Koch has received payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers’ bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from Epitech, Roche, Novo Nordisk. Giacomo Koch and 
Alessandro Martorana have the following patent issued: Combination drug 
formulations including rotigotine and an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor for the 
treatment of neurodegenerative diseases (n. 20230381512); Giacomo Koch and 
Emiliano Santarnecchi have the following patent issued: Systems and methods for 
providing personalized targeted non‐invasive stimulation to a brain network (n. 
11998740). GK reports grants from BrighFocus Foundation, Epitech, Alzheimer's 
Drug Discovery Foundation (ADDF), Italian Ministry of Health and non‐financial 
support from UCB Pharma outside the submitted work. Alessandro Martorana reports 
grants from Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation, BrighFocus Foundation, 
Italian Ministry of Health and non‐financial support from UCB Pharma outside the 
submitted work. Harald Hampel is an employee of Eisai Inc.; however, this 
article does not represent the opinion of Eisai. His contribution to this 
article reflects only and exclusively his academic and scientific expertise and 
was initiated during an academic appointment at Sorbonne University, Paris, 
France. He serves as a Reviewing Editor and previously as Senior Associate 
Editor for the journal Alzheimer's & Dementia, the journal of the Alzheimer's 
Association. Harald Hampel is inventor of 11 patents and has received no 
royalties: 1. In Vitro Multiparameter Determination Method for The Diagnosis and 
Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Disorders Patent Number: 8916388 2. In 
Vitro Procedure for Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Diseases 
Patent Number: 8298784 3. Neurodegenerative Markers for Psychiatric Conditions 
Publication Number: 20120196300 4. In Vitro Multiparameter Determination Method 
for The Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Disorders Publication 
Number: 20100062463 5. In Vitro Method for The Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Disorders Publication Number: 20100035286 6. In 
Vitro Procedure for Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Diseases 
Publication Number: 20090263822 7. In Vitro Method for The Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases Patent Number: 7547553 8. CSF Diagnostic in Vitro 
Method for Diagnosis of Dementias and Neuroinflammatory Diseases Publication 
Number: 20080206797 9. In Vitro Method for The Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases Publication Number: 20080199966 10. Neurodegenerative Markers for 
Psychiatric Conditions Publication Number: 20080131921 11. Method for diagnosis 
of dementias and neuroinflammatory diseases based on an increased level of 
procalcitonin in cerebrospinal fluid: Publication number: United States Patent 
10921330. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


9. Psychogeriatrics. 2025 Jul;25(4):e70054. doi: 10.1111/psyg.70054.

Effects of Individual Cognitive Stimulation Therapy on Cognitive Function and 
Depressive Mood in Dementia Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Liu P(1), Zhang Y(1), Yu Z(1), Wang X(1), Meng Q(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Shandong Second Medical University, Weifang, China.

To assess the effects of individualised cognitive stimulation therapy (ICST) on 
dementia patients, we searched Chinese and English databases for intervention 
studies on individual cognitive stimulation therapy in dementia patients and 
used Review Manager 5.3 software for meta-analysis. The results of the 
meta-analysis indicated that the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) showed a 
significant difference in cognitive function (MD: 1.65; 95% CI: 0.06-3.24). 
However, no significant effect was found in the assessment of the Cognitive 
Subscale of the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-Cog). Overall, ICST 
demonstrated improved cognitive function in dementia patients and led to a 
reduction in depression (MD: -1.18; 95% CI: -2.14 to -0.22). Nevertheless, there 
were no significant effects on quality of life, neuropsychiatric symptoms, or 
activities of daily living observed. ICST can effectively improve the cognitive 
ability of dementia patients and reduce depression. There is a need for further 
studies to confirm these findings and investigate potential mechanisms.

© 2025 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/psyg.70054
PMID: 40530553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2025 Jun 10;2025:9868970. doi: 10.1155/omcl/9868970. 
eCollection 2025.

RETRACTION: Classic Prescription, Kai-Xin-San, Ameliorates Alzheimer's Disease 
as an Effective Multitarget Treatment: From Neurotransmitter to Protein 
Signaling Pathway.

Cellular Longevity OMA.

Retraction of
    Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2019 Jul 1;2019:9096409. doi: 10.1155/2019/9096409.

[This retracts the article DOI: 10.1155/2019/9096409.].

Copyright © 2025 Oxidative Medicine and Cellular Longevity published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1155/omcl/9868970
PMCID: PMC12173549
PMID: 40530328


11. Int J Clin Health Psychol. 2025 Apr-Jun;25(2):100588. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijchp.2025.100588. Epub 2025 Jun 4.

Altered resting-state functional connectivity in individuals at risk for 
Alzheimer's disease: a longitudinal study.

Chavarría-Elizondo P(1)(2)(3), Maturana-Quijada P(4), Martínez-Zalacaín I(5), 
Del Cerro I(6)(7), Juaneda-Seguí A(1), Guinea-Izquierdo A(1), Gascón-Bayarri 
J(8), Reñé-Ramírez R(8), Urretavizcaya M(1)(2)(3)(9), Ferrer I(10)(11)(12), 
Menchón JM(1)(2)(3), Soria V(1)(3)(13)(14), Soriano-Mas C(1)(3)(15).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry and Mental Health Group, Neuroscience Program, Institut 
d'Investigació Biomèdica de Bellvitge (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, 
Spain.
(2)Departament de Ciències Clíniques, Facultat de Medicina i Ciències de la 
Salut, Universitat de Barcelona (UB), l'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Spain.
(3)Network Center for Biomedical Research on Mental Health (CIBERSAM), Carlos 
III Health Institute (ISCIII), Madrid, Spain.
(4)Escuela de Tecnología Médica, Facultad de Medicina y Ciencias de la Salud, 
Universidad Mayor, Chile.
(5)Department of Radiology, Bellvitge University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Department of Psychology, Medical School. Catholic University of Murcia, 
Murcia, Spain.
(7)Worldwide Clinical Trials, Madrid, Spain.
(8)Dementia Diagnostic and Treatment Unit, Department of Neurology, Bellvitge 
University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Bellvitge University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Department of Pathology and Experimental Therapeutics, Institute of 
Neurosciences, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute-IDIBELL, Department of Pathologic 
Anatomy, Bellvitge University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Network Center for Biomedical Research on Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Barcelona, Spain.
(13)Department of Mental Health, Parc Taulí Research and Innovation Institute 
(I3PT), Parc Taulí University Hospital, Sabadell, Barcelona, Spain.
(14)Department of Psychiatry and Forensic Medicine, School of Medicine, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain.
(15)Departament de Psicologia Social i Psicologia Quantitativa, Institut de 
Neurociències, Facultat de Psicologia, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.

BACKGROUND: Resting-state functional connectivity magnetic resonance imaging 
(rs-fMRI) is a sensitive tool for detecting early brain changes associated with 
Alzheimer's disease, even in its preclinical stages. Amnestic mild cognitive 
impairment (aMCI) and late-life depression (LLD) are two prevalent conditions in 
older adults that significantly elevate the risk of cognitive decline and 
dementia. This study aimed to elucidate the underlying neurobiological 
substrates by longitudinally identifying and comparing distinct connectivity 
patterns in aMCI subjects and LLD patients, and by examining the associations 
between these patterns and clinical measures of cognitive and mood impairments.
METHODS: The study included three groups: 26 healthy controls (HCs), 15 
individuals with aMCI, and 21 patients with LLD. All participants underwent 
rs-fMRI and neuropsychological assessments at baseline and at a 2-year 
follow-up. Functional connectivity was analyzed using a group Independent 
Component Analysis (ICA) model to investigate both group differences and 
longitudinal changes over time.
RESULTS: At baseline, individuals with aMCI exhibited reduced functional 
connectivity in the precuneus, whereas LLD patients showed decreased 
connectivity in frontal, insular, and postcentral regions alongside increased 
connectivity in posterior parietal and cuneal cortices. Correlation analyses 
revealed that lower baseline insular connectivity predicted higher depressive 
symptoms at follow-up in aMCI subjects. In LLD, reduced baseline precuneus 
connectivity was associated with better two-year outcomes in global cognition 
and long-term memory.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides evidence of distinct alterations in 
resting-state functional connectivity in individuals with aMCI and LLD, 
underscoring region-specific vulnerabilities that may contribute to cognitive 
decline and depressive symptomatology in older adults.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijchp.2025.100588
PMCID: PMC12171755
PMID: 40529837

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following financial 
interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing 
interests: Inés del Cerro reports a relationship with Worldwide Clinical Trials 
that includes: consulting or advisory. The author, Carles Soriano-Mas is an 
Advisory Board Member for International Journal of Clinical and Health 
Psychology and was not involved in the editorial review or the decision to 
publish this article. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no 
known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


12. Front Nutr. 2025 Jun 2;12:1585640. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2025.1585640.
eCollection  2025.

Coconut oil derived medium-chain triglycerides ameliorated memory deficits via 
promoting neurite outgrowth and maintaining gut homeostasis in 5×FAD mice.

Chen R(#)(1), Li R(#)(1), Jiang J(1), Zhou L(1), Zhao S(1), Zhang Y(1), Xia 
Q(1), Yang Z(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory 
of Aquatic Product Processing and Safety, Guangdong Province Engineering 
Laboratory for Marine Biological Products, Zhanjiang Municipal Key Laboratory of 
Marine Drugs and Nutrition for Brain Health, Shenzhen Institute of Guangdong 
Ocean University, Zhanjiang, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized 
by neurite atrophy, neuronal loss, and memory impairment. Medium-chain 
triglycerides (MCT), a type of fatty acid predominantly found in coconut oil, 
have been shown to improve metabolic syndrome as well as cognitive performance 
via ketone production in humans. Here, we investigated the protective effects of 
MCT on neurite atrophy and memory deficits in 5×FAD mice and elucidated the 
underlying mechanisms. First, virgin coconut oil (VCO), refined, bleached, and 
deodorized coconut oil (RBDCO), and MCT were orally administered to 6-8 months 
old 5×FAD mice for 9 consecutive weeks, the effects on cognition were then 
evaluated. MCT demonstrated superior effects compared to RBDCO and VCO in 
reducing Aβ levels, inhibiting hyperactivated microglia and astroglia, 
protecting neurons, and mitigating memory decline. Further, metagenomic analysis 
and RT-qPCR results revealed that MCT intervention increased the relative 
abundance of Akkermansia, reduced intestinal permeability, and elevated the 
concentration of short-chain fatty acids in the brain. Additionally, MCT 
treatment significantly protected primary cortical neurons against 
Aβ25-35-induced apoptosis and promoted neurite regeneration. Transcriptome and 
RT-qPCR data suggested that Ucp1 and Flor1 may be potential targets through 
which MCT exerts its neuroprotective effects. Our findings suggest that MCT may 
help prevent the progression of AD by promoting neurite outgrowth and 
maintaining gut homeostasis in 5×FAD mice, offering a theoretical foundation for 
the development of dietary therapies for AD.

Copyright © 2025 Chen, Li, Jiang, Zhou, Zhao, Zhang, Xia and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2025.1585640
PMCID: PMC12171442
PMID: 40529430

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


13. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jun 2;17:1584607. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1584607.
 eCollection 2025.

Neurobiological and therapeutic landmarks of depression associated with 
Alzheimer's disease dementia.

Untu I(1), Davidson M(2), Stanciu GD(2), Rabinowitz J(2)(3), Dobrin RP(1), Vieru 
DS(2), Tamba BI(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine III, Faculty of Medicine, "Grigore T. Popa" University 
of Medicine and Pharmacy of Iasi, Iași, Romania.
(2)Advanced Research and Development Center for Experimental Medicine "Prof. 
Ostin C. Mungiu" CEMEX, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine and Pharmacy of 
Iasi, Iași, Romania.
(3)Bar Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Clinical Pharmacology and Algesiology, "Grigore 
T. Popa" University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Iasi, Iași, Romania.

Depression in Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia has become an increasingly 
recognized public health concern due to its high prevalence and substantial 
impact on patient outcomes. Despite extensive research having been conducted 
over the past decades, the precise causal mechanisms and the nature of the 
relationship between depression and AD dementia remain incompletely understood. 
This narrative review examines the bidirectional interaction between depression 
and Alzheimer's disease, emphasizing shared neurobiological pathways, including 
neurotransmitter dysregulation, neuroinflammation, abnormalities in the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and deficits in neuroplasticity. 
These mechanisms likely contribute to the acceleration of neurodegeneration in 
AD and the onset or worsening of depressive symptoms. Current therapeutic 
approaches remain largely nonspecific, with a lack of targeted therapies that 
address the unique pathophysiological context of depression in AD. While 
progress has been made, key research gaps remain, particularly in understanding 
the complex biological interactions between these two conditions. Future 
research should focus on identifying specific biomarkers and developing 
personalized treatment strategies tailored to the neurobiological features of 
both depression and AD. By addressing these neurobiological mechanisms, we can 
develop more effective and targeted interventions, ultimately improving patient 
outcomes and advancing clinical care for this dual pathology.

Copyright © 2025 Untu, Davidson, Stanciu, Rabinowitz, Dobrin, Vieru and Tamba.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1584607
PMCID: PMC12171374
PMID: 40529210

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


14. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Jun 2;12:1603553. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1603553. 
eCollection 2025.

Integrating genetic and immune profiles for personalized immunotherapy in 
Alzheimer's disease.

He C(#)(1), Shen Y(#)(1), Zhang M(1), Zhou X(2).

Author information:
(1)Second Clinical Medical College, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, 
Harbin, China.
(2)Shenzhen Hospital of Beijing University of Chinese Medicine (Longgang), 
Shenzhen, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent cause of dementia worldwide, and 
it is estimated that the number of patients will increase to 131 million by 
2050. Most of the current methods of dealing with AD are designed to alleviate 
the symptoms, and there is no effective way of stopping the progression of the 
disease. Personalized immunotherapy has the potential to be highly effective and 
cut down on side effects because it can be targeted accurately and intervened 
early. Considering the genetic factors, many studies are increasingly looking at 
taking the immune status into account. This article further discusses the 
genetic and immune characteristics of AD, the methods of integrating multiple 
histological data, the identification of biomarkers, the stratification of 
patients, the precise treatment plans, and the application and future trends of 
immunotherapy, giving new directions for the future treatment of AD. In this 
mini-review, the authors address the critical role that genetic background and 
immune status play in shaping therapeutic strategies for AD, noting that there 
is a unique immune response in carriers of the APOEε4 allele compared to 
non-carriers, and that this difference may affect the course of the disease as 
well as the efficacy of immunotherapy. The aim of this review is to give an 
overview of the current understanding of the influence of genetic and immune 
factors on each other in AD, focusing on the impact of the APOEε4 allele on the 
immune response and its implications for immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2025 He, Shen, Zhang and Zhou.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1603553
PMCID: PMC12171180
PMID: 40529145

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


15. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2025 May 28;16(6):1058-1065. doi: 
10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00108. eCollection 2025 Jun 12.

Discovery of Indole-Based PDE5 Inhibitors: Synthesis and Pharmacological 
Evaluation.

Park SY(1), Pham D(1), Shukla P(1), Edward J(1), John R(1), Li A(1), 
Hadjiargyrou M(1), Mori M(2), Zuccarello E(3)(4), Arancio O(3)(4)(5), Fiorito 
J(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Chemical Sciences, New York Institute of 
Technology, Old Westbury, New York 11568, United States.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Siena, 
53100 Siena, Italy.
(3)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, United States.
(4)Department of Medicine, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, United 
States.
(5)Department of Pathology & Cell Biology, Columbia University, New York, New 
York 10032, United States.

Phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitors have been suggested as new treatments for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other conditions such as cancer and cardiovascular 
diseases. Utilizing the widespread presence of the indole moiety in biomolecules 
and drugs, previously synthesized quinoline and naphthyridine compounds were 
modified into novel indole-containing PDE5 inhibitors. Replacing the amine with 
an amide group led to identifying a potent analogue, compound 14a, with an IC50 
of 16.11 nM. Molecular docking simulations further highlight the significance of 
the amide group in drug-target interactions. A cytotoxicity test and a parallel 
artificial membrane permeability assay validated the compound's potential as a 
lead for further drug development. Compound 14a was shown to be safe and 
blood-brain barrier permeable. The discovery of these indole-containing PDE5 
inhibitors provides new perspectives for developing PDE5 therapeutics.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00108
PMCID: PMC12169455
PMID: 40529097


16. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70342. doi: 10.1002/alz.70342.

Alpha-synuclein co-pathology in Down syndrome-associated Alzheimer's disease.

Bernhardt AM(1)(2), Rodríguez-Baz Í(3)(4), Aldecoa I(5)(6), Arranz J(3), 
Arriola-Infante JE(3)(4), Maure-Blesa L(3)(4), Carmona-Iragui M(3)(4)(7), Longen 
S(8), Trossbach SV(9), Giese A(9), Matthias T(8)(9), Benejam B(3)(4)(7), Videla 
L(3)(4)(7), Del Hoyo Soriano L(3), Barroeta I(3)(4), Sanjuan A(3), Fernández 
S(7), Vaqué-Alcázar L(3)(10)(11), Rozalem Aranha M(3), Morcillo-Nieto AO(3), 
Nübling G(1)(2), Wagemann O(1)(2), Stockbauer A(1)(2), Tondo M(12)(13), Bejanin 
A(3)(4), Lleó A(3)(4), Alcolea D(3)(4), Molina-Porcel L(5)(14), Fortea 
J(3)(4)(7), Levin J(1)(2)(9)(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, 
Germany.
(2)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), site Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(3)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i 
Sant Pau, Institut de Recerca Sant Pau (IR SANT PAU), Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Center of Biomedical Investigation Network for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Neurological Tissue Bank of the Biobanc, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomediques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS/FCRB), Hospital Clinic, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(6)Pathology Department, Biomedical Diagnostic Center, Hospital Clinic de 
Barcelona-University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana de Síndrome de Down, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Aesku.Diagnostics GmbH, Wendelsheim, Germany.
(9)MODAG GmbH, Mikroforum Ring 3, Wendelsheim, Germany.
(10)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Institute 
of Neurosciences, University of Barcelona, Casanova, Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), 
Casanova, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Servei de Bioquímica i Biologia Molecular, IR SANT PAU, Hospital de La Santa 
Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Sant Antoni Maria Claret, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(13)Spanish Biomedical Research Center in Diabetes and Associated Metabolic 
Diseases (CIBERDEM)-Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(14)Alzheimer's disease and other cognitive disorders Unit, Neurology Service, 
Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(15)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Alpha-synuclein (αSyn) seed amplification assay (SAA) enables in 
vivo study of αSyn but remains underexplored in Down syndrome-associated 
Alzheimer's disease (DSAD).
METHODS: We analyzed αSyn-SAA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 270 adults with 
Down syndrome, from the Down Alzheimer Barcelona Neuroimaging Initiative and 
from the AD21 cohort from the Department of Neurology at the University 
Hospital, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany. Neuropathological 
examinations were conducted in 19 brain donors (five with ante mortem CSF). 
Participants were classified as asymptomatic or symptomatic (prodromal/dementia) 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). CSF Aβ1-42/1-40, CSF and plasma p-Tau181, and 
neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels were measured. Neuropathological 
evaluations assessed AD neuropathological changes and Lewy body pathology (LBP).
RESULTS: ΑSyn-SAA was positive in 9.2% of cases, independent of age or cognitive 
status. Symptomatic αSyn-positive cases exhibited higher plasma NfL levels than 
αSyn-negative cases (31 vs 21 pg/mL, p = 0.027). LBP was observed in 47% of 
necropsies. The individual with severe neocortical LBP was αSyn-SAA-positive.
DISCUSSION: These findings highlight LBP prevalence in DSAD but suggest current 
SAA may fail to detect limited αSyn deposition.
HIGHLIGHTS: αSyn-SAA positivity in DSAD is 9.2%, similar to ADAD but lower than 
sporadic AD. Misfolded αSyn was detectable from early ages in individuals with 
DS. Positivity rates did not vary with age or clinical status in DS. Plasma NfL 
levels are higher in symptomatic αSyn-SAA positive versus negative cases. CSF 
αSyn seeding activity was associated with high neocortical LBP at necropsy.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70342
PMCID: PMC12173960
PMID: 40528443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MCI reported receiving personal fees for service 
on the advisory boards, speaker honoraria or educational activities from Esteve, 
Lilly, Neuraxpharm, Adium, and Roche diagnostics. MRA has provided paid 
consultancy for Veranex and is a partner and director of production at 
Masima—Soluções em Imagens Médicas LTDA. DA reported receiving personal fees for 
advisory board services and/or speaker honoraria from Fujirebio‐Europe, Roche, 
Nutricia, Krka Farmacéutica, Lilly, Zambon S.A.U., Grifols, and Esteve, outside 
the submitted work. AL has served as a consultant or on advisory boards for 
Almirall, Fujirebio‐Europe, Roche, Biogen, Grifols, NovoNordisk, Novartis, 
Eisai, Lilly, and Nutricia, outside the submitted work. LMP has provided 
consultancy services to Biogen. JF reported serving on the advisory boards, 
adjudication committees, or speaker honoraria from Roche, NovoNordisk, Esteve, 
Biogen, Laboratorios Carnot, Adamed, LMI, Novartis, Lundbeck, Roche, AC Immune, 
Alzheon, Zambon, Lilly, Spanish Neurological Society, T21 Research Society, 
Lumind foundation, Jérôme‐Lejeune Foundation, Alzheimer's Association, NIH, USA, 
and Instituto de Salud Carlos III. JA reported receiving personal fees for 
service on speaker honoraria or educational activities from Lilly, Esteve, 
Fujirebio‐Europe, and Roche diagnostics. DA, AL, and JF report holding a patent 
for markers of synaptopathy in neurodegenerative disease (licensed to ADx, 
EPI8382175.0). JL reports speaker fees from Bayer Vital, Biogen, EISAI, Merck, 
Roche, TEVA, and Zambon; consulting fees from Axon Neuroscience, EISAI, and 
Biogen; author fees from Thieme Medical Publishers and W. Kohlhammer GmbH 
Medical Publishers; and is inventor in the patent “Oral Phenylbutyrate for 
Treatment of Human 4‐Repeat Tauopathies” (EP 23 156 122.6) filed by LMU Munich. 
In addition, he reports compensation for serving as chief medical officer for 
MODAG GmbH; is beneficiary of the phantom share program of MODAG GmbH; and is 
inventor in the patent “Pharmaceutical Composition and Methods of Use” (EP 22 
159 408.8) filed by MODAG GmbH, all activities outside the submitted work. No 
other competing interests were reported. The author disclosures are available in 
the Supplementary Information.


17. J Evid Based Med. 2025 Jun;18(2):e70047. doi: 10.1111/jebm.70047.

Effects and Neuroimaging Findings of Acupuncture for Amnestic Mild Cognitive 
Impairment: A Randomized Controlled Trial.

Yin Z(1)(2), Li Y(1), Zhang X(1)(2), Liu Y(3), Wang Z(4), Ye F(5), He X(6), Bao 
Q(1)(2), Xia M(1)(2), Chen Z(1)(2), Zhong W(1)(2), Wu K(1)(2), Yao J(1)(2), Chen 
Z(1)(2), Wang Z(1)(2), Sun M(1)(2), Chen J(1)(2), Hong X(1)(2), Zhao L(1)(2), 
Liang F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China.
(2)Sichuan Provincial Acupuncture Clinical Medicine Research Center, Chengdu, 
China.
(3)West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(4)Fourth People's Hospital of Chengdu, Chengdu, China.
(5)Sichuan Province People's Hospital, Chengdu, China.
(6)Rehabilitation Hospital of Sichuan Province, Chengdu, China.

AIM: Due to the limited evidence, the effects and neuroimaging mechanisms of 
acupuncture for amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) are still needed to 
investigate. Our objectives were to assess the effects and investigate its 
therapy-driven modification in functional neural response.
METHODS: Right-handed aMCI patients were enrolled and randomly assigned to an 
acupuncture group (AG) or a waitlist control group (WG) in the randomized 
clinical trial using computer-generated randomization sequence method. Twenty 
normal cognition individuals were included in the normal control (NC) group. The 
primary outcomes were the changes in the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment 
Scale-Cognitive (ADAS-Cog) subscale score from baseline to the 12th and 24th 
week. Acupuncture's neural responses were investigated by detecting changes in 
regional homogeneity (ReHo), seed-based functional connectivity (FC), and 
effective connectivity (EC) from baseline to the 12th week. Generalized 
estimating equations and correlational analyses were employed.
RESULTS: Overall, 343 participants were screened, and 72 aMCI patients were 
included. The ADAS-Cog score changes at Weeks 12 and 24 of AG were significantly 
higher than that of WG. In neural response, aMCI patients had higher ReHo in the 
left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC.L) compared to NCs. Acupuncture 
significantly reduced ReHo in the DLPFC.L and its FC with the left anterior 
cingulate cortex (ACC.L) compared to the WG. The causal evidence for decreased 
EC from the DLPFC.L to the ACC.L after acupuncture, which correlated with change 
in ADAS-Cog score.
CONCLUSION: Acupuncture was effective in overall cognitive function in aMCI 
patients, and the effect was associated with the DLPFC.L-ACC.L circuit.

© 2025 Chinese Cochrane Center, West China Hospital of Sichuan University and 
John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jebm.70047
PMID: 40528430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70307. doi: 10.1002/alz.70307.

Discrepancies in assessing intellectual disability levels in adults with Down 
syndrome: Implications for dementia diagnosis.

Soriano LDH(1)(2), Sandkühler K(3), Videla L(1)(2)(4), Benejam B(1)(2)(4), 
Carmona-Iragui M(1)(2)(4), Wlasich E(3), Kustermann J(3), Barroeta I(1)(2), 
Vaqué-Alcázar L(1)(5)(6), Rodríguez-Baz Í(1)(2), Bejanin A(1)(2), Fernández 
S(4), Arranz J(1)(2), Arriola-Infante JE(1)(2), Maure-Blesa L(1)(2), Juan AS(1), 
Nübling G(3)(7), Wagemann O(3)(7), Stockbauer A(3)(7), Hassenstab J(8), Levin 
J(3)(8)(9), Fortea J(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i 
Sant Pau, Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Center of Biomedical Investigation Network for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Ludwig-Maximilians-University 
(LMU) Munich, Munich, Germany.
(4)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana de Síndrome de Down, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Institute of 
Neurosciences, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), 
Barcelona, Spain.
(7)German Center for Neurodegenerative Disease (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(8)Departments of Neurology and Psychological & Brain Sciences, Washington 
University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(9)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Cut-offs derived from baseline cognitive assessments, stratified 
by intellectual disability (ID) level, have been proposed to diagnose 
symptomatic Alzheimer's disease (AD) in Down syndrome (DS). However, 
discrepancies in ID classification risk misclassification when applying cut-offs 
across sites.
METHODS: This dual-center cohort study included 673 adults with mild to moderate 
ID at different AD stages. We assessed ID classification discrepancies across 
sites and the impact on Cambridge Cognitive Examination for Older Adults with 
Down's Syndrome (CAMCOG-DS) cut-offs for AD dementia diagnosis derived from 
receiver operating characteristic analysis.
RESULTS: Inter-rater agreement for ID level classification was 95% within sites 
but 60% between sites. While CAMCOG-DS score distributions in the whole cohort 
were similar across sites, ID classification discrepancies caused higher 
cut-offs in Barcelona for mild and moderate ID compared to Munich. Applying 
site-specific cut-offs to another cohort reduced sensitivity and specificity.
DISCUSSION: Standardizing ID classification is critical for generalizable 
cut-offs to accurately diagnose AD dementia based on neuropsychological 
assessments in DS.
HIGHLIGHTS: CAMCOG-DS cut-offs by intellectual disability level classify 
dementia in Down syndrome. ID classification discrepancies between sites impact 
CAMCOG-DS diagnostic cut-offs. Applying site-specific cut-offs to other cohorts 
reduces sensitivity and specificity. Standardized ID classification is essential 
for generalizable cognitive cut-offs. Use site-specific cut-offs until ID 
classification is standardized.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70307
PMCID: PMC12173952
PMID: 40528393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.F. has received personal fees for service on 
advisory boards, adjudication committees, or speaker honoraria from AC Immune, 
Adamed, Alzheon, Biogen, Eisai, Esteve, Fujirebio, Ionis, Laboratorios Carnot, 
Life Molecular Imaging, Lilly, Lundbeck, Perha, and Roche, outside the submitted 
work. J.F. also holds a patent for markers of synaptopathy in neurodegenerative 
disease (licensed to Adx, EPI8382175.0). J.L. reports speaker fees from Bayer 
Vital, Biogen, EISAI, TEVA, Zambon, Esteve, Merck, and Roche; consulting fees 
from Axon Neuroscience, EISAI, and Biogen; author fees from Thieme Medical 
Publishers and W. Kohlhammer GmbH medical publishers; and is inventor in a 
patent “Oral Phenylbutyrate for Treatment of Human 4‐Repeat Tauopathies” 
(PCT/EP2024/053388) filed by LMU Munich. In addition, J.L. reports compensation 
for serving as chief medical officer for MODAG GmbH, is beneficiary of the 
phantom share program of MODAG GmbH, and is inventor in a patent “Pharmaceutical 
Composition and Methods of Use” (EP 22 159 408.8) filed by MODAG GmbH, all 
activities outside the submitted work. The other authors report no relevant 
disclosures. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


19. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70311. doi: 10.1002/alz.70311.

Translation and cultural adaptation of tools to assess diverse Asian American 
and Asian Canadian subgroups: The Asian Cohort for Alzheimer's Disease (ACAD) 
Study.

Lee H(1), Tzuang M(2), Chow TW(3), Kang Y(4), Tee BL(5)(6), Li C(7), Lam E(8), 
Gu Y(9), Lee S(10), Ho PC(3)(11), Peavy G(12), Seo EH(13), Kim K(14), Tran 
B(15), Chae W(16), Nguyen D(17), Vo N(12)(18), Dang D(19), Spat-Lemus J(7), Choi 
YB(20)(21), Feldman H(12)(18), Jun GR(22)(23)(24), Wang LS(3), Yu WH(25), Park 
VTM(2)(26); Asian Cohort for Alzheimer's Disease Study.

Author information:
(1)Meyers College of Nursing, New York University, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Community Health Systems, University of California San 
Francisco School of Nursing, San Francisco, California, USA.
(3)Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center Department of Pathology and Laboratory 
Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)College of Nursing Graduate Program in System Health Science and Engineering, 
Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Memory and Aging Center Department of Neurology, Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, California, USA.
(6)Global Brain Health Institute, University of California, San Francisco, 
California, USA.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(8)Brain Health and Imaging Center and Geriatric Mental Health Services, Centre 
for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(9)Department of Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New 
York, USA.
(10)Mo-Im Kim Nursing Research Institute, College of Nursing, Yonsei University, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(11)The Leonard and Davis Institute of Health Economics, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(12)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California, USA.
(13)Premedical Science, College of Medicine, Chosun University, Gwangju, 
Republic of Korea.
(14)Department of Child Development and Family Studies, College of Human 
Ecology, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(15)American Pacific Health Foundation, La Jolla, California, USA.
(16)Graduate School of Public Health, Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(17)Retired, Fountain Valley, California, USA.
(18)Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, University of California, San Diego, 
La Jolla, California, USA.
(19)Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders, University of 
California, Irvine, Irvine, California, USA.
(20)Department of Medicine/Neurology, Englewood Health, Englewood, New Jersey, 
USA.
(21)Department of Neurology, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Doctors Office 
Center, Newark, New Jersey, USA.
(22)Department of Medicine (Biomedical Genetics), Boston University School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(23)Department of Ophthalmology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(24)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(25)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(26)Asian American Research Center on Health (ARCH), University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The availability of sociocultural and language-appropriate study 
materials and instruments is critical for the assessment of cognitive function 
in people from diverse backgrounds. This report describes the translations and 
cultural adaptations of study materials for the Asian Cohort for Alzheimer's 
Disease (ACAD) study.
METHODS: We performed translations and cultural adaptations in accordance with 
the World Health Organization (WHO) translation guidelines to ensure reliable, 
complete, and culturally appropriate translations from English to the specified 
Asian languages.
RESULTS: We developed Asian language versions of the ACAD documents (consent, 
data collection packet, and community and social media outreach materials) 
reflecting the sociocultural backgrounds of the ACAD target population (i.e., 
older Asian adults) DISCUSSION: The multistep translation process accounting for 
distinctive Asian sociocultural and language backgrounds provides an important 
guideline for Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) researchers to 
promote health literacy and research with underrepresented Asian American and 
Canadian adults.
HIGHLIGHTS: Asian American and Asian Canadian older adults are the 
fastest-growing populations. A lack of linguistically and culturally appropriate 
cognitive assessment tools creates barriers for quality healthcare and clinical 
research. We report the translations and cultural adaptations of the Asian 
Cohort for Alzheimer's Disease (ACAD) study materials into Chinese, Korean, and 
Vietnamese. This translation methodology should be extended to Asian Indians, 
Filipinos, and other Asian American or Asian Canadian populations.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70311
PMCID: PMC12173839
PMID: 40528300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Boon Lead Tee is supported by NIH‐NIA 
R01AG080469, P30AG062422, R01AG0838, U19 AG07977440, U01 NS128913, NIA 
P01AG019724; UCSF Alzheimer's Association (AACSFD‐22‐97214 for UCSF Alzheimer's 
Association (AACSFD). Ms. Bin Tran is supported with ACAD at UCSD for 2021, 
2022, and 2023. She has served on the community advisory board for ACAD. For 
this manuscript, Dr. Howard Feldman reports support from the NIH‐NIA (U19 
AG07977440) and sub‐award from University of Pennsylvania Department of 
Pathology and Lab Medicine (Dr. Li‐san Wang). Other disclosures include grant 
funding from Allyx Therapeutics, Vivoryon Therapeutics, Biohaven 
Pharmaceuticals, LuMind Foundation; consulting service agreements with LuMind, 
Novo Nordisk, Inc., Axon Neuroscience, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals; service on a 
Data Safely Monitoring or Advisory Board for Roche/Genentech Pharmaceuticals, 
Tau Consortium, Janssen Research & Development LLC, with no personal funds 
received and all payments to UC San Diego. He receives philanthropic support 
from the Epstein Alzheimer's Research Collaboration, as well as travel support 
from the Royal Society of Canada, Translating Research in Elder Care (TREC), 
Association for Frontotemporal Dementia (AFTD), and Rainwater Charitable 
Foundation. Dr. Feldman personally receives royalty payments from the University 
of British Columbia for Detecting and Treating Dementia (Serial Number 12/3‐2691 
U.S. Patent No. PCT/US2007/07008). Other authors do not have any relevant 
conflicts of interest to disclose. Author disclosures are available in the 
Supporting Information.


20. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70258. doi: 10.1002/alz.70258.

Current advances and unmet needs in Alzheimer's disease trials for individuals 
with Down syndrome: Navigating new therapeutic frontiers.

Barroeta I(1)(2), Videla L(1)(2)(3), Carmona-Iragui M(1)(2)(3), Fortea 
J(1)(2)(3), Rafii MS(4).

Author information:
(1)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques Sant Pau Hospital de Sant Pau, UniversitatAutònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana Síndrome de Down, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(4)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine of the 
University of Southern California, San Diego, California, USA.

Individuals with Down syndrome (DS) have a genetically determined form of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) due to the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene dose 
effect. Nearly all individuals with DS develop AD pathology by age 40. Although 
dementia is rare before this age, its incidence rises sharply thereafter. 
Longitudinal studies estimate a lifetime dementia risk exceeding 90%, with 
prevalence reaching 88%-100% after age 65-a marked contrast to 10%-15% in the 
general population. Recent breakthroughs in sporadic AD, including anti-amyloid 
therapies such as lecanemab and donanemab, have shown efficacy in slowing 
progression. However, individuals with DS were excluded from these trials, 
leaving critical gaps in safety and efficacy data. This perspective highlights 
the current state of AD clinical trials in DS, key challenges-(including ethical 
considerations, recruitment barriers, and cognitive assessment adaptations), and 
emerging research efforts. Addressing these gaps is essential to ensure 
equitable access to disease-modifying therapies for individuals with DS. 
HIGHLIGHTS: Despite recent progress in Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatments for 
the general population-particularly monoclonal anti-amyloid therapies such as 
lecanemab and donanemab-individuals with Down syndrome (DS) were excluded from 
pivotal trials, leaving significant gaps in knowledge regarding safety and 
efficacy. A key concern in DS is the heightened risk of amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities (ARIAs), a known side effect of anti-amyloid therapies, which may 
be aggravated by the increased prevalence and severity of cerebral amyloid 
angiopathy (CAA) in this population. For the first time, growing awareness of 
the nearly universal AD risk in DS is driving a stronger focus on tailored 
clinical research. Ongoing and forthcoming studies, including TRC-DS, ABATE, 
HERO, ALADDIN, and LESS-AD, are beginning to address these gaps. Beyond 
amyloid-targeting therapies, investigating alternative mechanisms such as tau 
pathology, neuroinflammation, and synaptic dysfunction is key to advancing 
treatments for DS-related AD. Collaboration between advocacy groups, 
researchers, and pharmaceutical companies is essential for overcoming barriers 
in AD clinical trials for DS, including ethical concerns, recruitment 
challenges, and the need for adapted cognitive assessments. This perspective 
also proposes strategies to enhance inclusivity in future studies, ensuring 
broader access to emerging treatments.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70258
PMCID: PMC12173829
PMID: 40528298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I.B. reported receiving personal fees for 
educational activities from Adium. L.V. has no disclosures. M.C.I. reported 
receiving personal fees for service on the advisory boards, speaker honoraria, 
or educational activities from Esteve, Lilly, Neuraxpharm, Adium, and Roche. 
J.F. reported receiving personal fees for service on the advisory boards and 
adjudication committees or speaker honoraria from AC Immune, Adamed, Alzheon, 
Biogen, Eisai, Esteve, Fujirebio, Ionis, Laboratorios Carnot, Life Molecular 
Imaging, Lilly, Lundbeck, Novo Nordisk, Perha, Roche, and Zambón, outside the 
submitted work; and for holding a patent for markers of synaptopathy in 
neurodegenerative disease (licensed to ADx, EPI8382175.0). M.S.R. is a 
consultant to AC Immune and Ionis.  He serves as Data Safety Monitoring Board 
Chair for Alzheon and Biohaven and is on the Scientific Advisory Board for 
Embic, Prescient, and Positrigo. His institution has received grants from Eisai 
and Lilly. Author disclosures are available in Supporting Information.


21. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70259. doi: 10.1002/alz.70259.

The Down Alzheimer Barcelona Neuroimaging Initiative (DABNI) and its 
contributions to understanding Alzheimer's disease in Down syndrome: A decade of 
discovery.

Videla L(1)(2)(3), Benejam B(2), Barroeta I(1)(3), Fernandez S(2), Altuna 
M(1)(3)(4), Arranz J(1), Rodríguez-Baz Í(1)(3), Arriola-Infante JE(1)(3), 
Maure-Blesa L(1)(3), Del Hoyo Soriano L(1)(3), Illán-Gala I(1)(3), Estellés 
T(1)(3), Sanjuan A(1), Vaqué-Alcázar L(1)(5), Aranha MR(1)(6), Morcillo-Nieto 
AO(1)(3), Zsadanyi SE(1), Franquesa-Mullerat M(1), Valldeneu S(1)(3), 
Sánchez-Saudinós MB(1)(3), Padilla C(1)(7), Carreras M(3), Lorente O(1)(3), 
Valle-Tamayo N(1)(3), Sánchez-Aced É(1)(3), Dols-Icardo O(1)(3), Sirisi S(1)(3), 
Muñoz L(1)(3), Torres S(1)(3), Bounasr El Bennadi SE(1)(3), Sánchez O(1)(3), 
Garzón D(1), Ribas L(1), Elbachiri S(1), Mota C(1), Tondo M(8), Camacho 
V(1)(3)(9), Giménez S(1)(3)(10), Delaby C(1)(11), Belbin O(1)(3), Iulita 
MF(1)(12), Montal V(1)(3)(13), Pegueroles J(1), Vilaplana E(1), Clarimón 
J(1)(14), González-Ortiz S(15)(16), Molina-Porcel L(17)(18), Aldecoa I(17)(19), 
Alcolea D(1)(3), Bejanin A(1)(3), Videla S(20)(21), Blesa R(1)(3), Lleó A(1)(3), 
Carmona-Iragui M(1)(2)(3), Fortea J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques Sant Pau Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat Autònoma 
de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana Síndrome de Down, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(4)CITA-alzheimer foundation, Paseo Mikeletegi, Donostia-San Sebastián, Spain.
(5)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Institute of 
Neurosciences, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer 
(IDIBAPS), University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Department of Radiology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Estudis de Ciències de la Salut, Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, Rambla del 
Poblenou, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques Sant Pau 
Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Multidisciplinary Sleep Unit, Respiratory Department, Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques Sant Pau Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(11)CHU de Montpellier, Laboratoire de Biochimie-Protéomique clinique, 
Université de Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(12)Altoida Inc., Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(13)Barcelona Supercomputing Center, Plaça d'Eusebi Güell, Barcelona, Spain.
(14)H Lundbeck A/S, Valby, Denmark.
(15)Neuroradiology Section, Radiology Department, Diagnostic Image Center, 
Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(16)Neuroradiology Section, Radiology Department, Hospital del Mar - Parc de 
SalutMar, Barcelona, Spain.
(17)Neurological Tissue Bank of the Biobank, Hospital Clinic de 
Barcelona-FCRB/IDIBAPS, Barcelona, Spain.
(18)Alzheimer's Disease and Other Cognitive Disorders Unit, Neurology Service, 
Hospital Clínic, IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(19)Pathology Department, Biomedical Diagnostic Center, Hospital Clinic de 
Barcelona-University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(20)Clinical Research Support Area, Clinical Pharmacology Department, Germans 
Trias i Pujol University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.
(21)Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Toxicology, Autonomous 
University of Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain.

Down syndrome (DS) is a genetic form of Alzheimer's disease (AD) that offers 
crucial insights into AD pathogenesis. The Down Alzheimer Barcelona Neuroimaging 
Initiative (DABNI) is a population-based multimodal biomarker cohort studying 
AD's natural history and clinical trials in DS. DABNI included 1135 participants 
(mean age 42.82, 46.3% female). At baseline, 673 participants were cognitively 
stable, 113 had prodromal AD, 239 had AD dementia, and 110 were uncertain due to 
non-AD conditions. Over 10 years, > 10000 clinical visits were conducted; 
follow-up showed that progression to symptomatic AD before age 40 was rare, but 
rates increased after age 50 (> 50% within 5 years). Neuropsychological and 
biomarker assessments demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance and a 
predictable sequence of changes, similar to autosomal dominant AD. DABNI 
participates in AD clinical trials and produced approximately 100 publications. 
The 10-year DABNI study provided critical insights into DS-associated AD (DSAD) 
and serves as a key platform for DS clinical trials. HIGHLIGHTS: Down Alzheimer 
Barcelona Neuroimaging Initiative (DABNI) is a population-based multimodal 
cohort studying Alzheimer's disease in Down syndrome. Over 10 years, 1135 
participants contributed to more than 10000 clinical visits and extensive 
biomarker studies. DABNI findings have transformed the understanding of 
Alzheimer's disease in Down syndrome, reinforcing its classification as a 
genetic form of the disease. The cohort integrates clinical care and research, 
enhancing early detection and patient management. DABNI supports clinical trials 
and has produced over 100 publications advancing Down syndrome-related 
Alzheimer's research.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70259
PMCID: PMC12173842
PMID: 40528282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Juan Fortea reported receiving personal fees for 
service on the advisory boards, adjudication committees or speaker honoraria 
from AC Immune, Adamed, Alzheon, Biogen, Eisai, Esteve, Fujirebio, Ionis, 
Laboratorios Carnot, Life Molecular Imaging, Lilly, Lundbeck, Novo Nordisk, 
Perha, Roche, Zambón and outside the submitted work. Daniel Alcolea, Alberto 
Lleó, and Juan Fortea reports holding a patent for markers of synaptopathy in 
neurodegenerative disease (licensed to ADx, EPI8382175.0). Sandra Giménez 
reported receiving personal fees for service on the advisory boards, speaker 
honoraria or educational activities from Esteve, Indorsia and Biojen. María 
Carmona‐Iragui reported receiving personal fees for service on the advisory 
boards, speaker honoraria or educational activities from Esteve, Lilly, 
Neuraxpharm, Adium, and Roche. JA reported receiving personal fees for service 
on the speaker honoraria or educational activities from Esteve, Lilly and Roche, 
outside the submitted work. DA reported receiving personal fees for advisory 
board services and/or speaker honoraria from Fujirebio‐Europe, Roche, Nutricia, 
Krka Farmacéutica, Lilly, Zambon S. A. U., Grifols, and Esteve, outside the 
submitted work. AL has served as a consultant or on advisory boards for 
Almirall, Fujirebio‐Europe, Roche, Biogen, Grifols, Novartis, Eisai, Lilly, and 
Nutricia, outside the submitted work. Valle Camacho reported receiving personal 
fees for service on the advisory boards, speaker honoraria or educational 
activities from General Electric, Life Molecular Imaging, Lilly and Novartis. 
Mateus Rozalem Aranha has provided paid consultancy for Veranex. Mateus Rozalem 
Aranha is a partner and director of production at Masima—Soluções em Imagens 
Médicas LTDA. María Carmona‐Iragui reported receiving personal fees for service 
on the advisory boards, speaker honoraria or educational activities from Esteve, 
Lilly, Neuraxpharm, Adium and Roche. Isabel Barroeta reported receiving personal 
fees for speaker honoraria from Adium. No other competing interests were 
reported. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


22. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70361. doi: 10.1002/alz.70361.

Comparing clinical features of behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia and 
Alzheimer's disease using network analysis.

Goodwin GJ(1)(2), Mehrzad S(3), Cummings JL(2)(4), Renn BN(1), Kinney JW(2)(4), 
John SE(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
(2)Department of Brain Health, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine, University of 
Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
(3)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New 
Jersey, USA.
(4)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, 
Nevada, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Clinical characterization of behavioral variant frontotemporal 
dementia (bvFTD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) is challenging due to overlapping 
neuropsychiatric symptoms and cognitive profiles between the two conditions.
METHODS: We used clinical network analysis to characterize and compare clinical 
profiles in AD and bvFTD using initial visit data from the National Alzheimer's 
Coordinating Center.
RESULTS: The final matched sample included 890 patients per group (AD: mean age 
 = 63.02, standard deviation [SD] = 9.34, 36.4% female; bvFTD: mean age 
 = 62.87, SD = 9.46, 36.52% female). Both networks were densely connected, 
reflecting comorbidity between neuropsychiatric symptoms and cognitive scores. 
Memory performance, hallucinations, and motor disturbance were bridge symptoms 
in the AD network, whereas elation was the sole bridge symptom in the bvFTD 
network.
DISCUSSION: Distinct networks highlight unique clinical profiles in AD and 
bvFTD. Treatment of bridge symptoms may relieve overall symptom burden. Findings 
can advance clinical characterization of AD and bvFTD, leading to development of 
targeted interventions.
HIGHLIGHTS: We compared clinical features of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD). Clinical networks showed 
comorbidity between neuropsychiatric symptoms and cognitive manifestations. 
Clinical networks significantly differed between AD and bvFTD, highlighting 
unique behavioral and cognitive profiles. Distinct symptoms were important for 
overall symptom comorbidity. Findings can be used to characterize AD and bvFTD 
and inform targeted treatment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70361
PMCID: PMC12173837
PMID: 40528277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Jeffrey L. Cummings has provided consultation to 
Acadia, Acumen, ALZpath, Annovis, Aprinoia, Artery, Biogen, Biohaven, BioXcel, 
Bristol‐Myers Squib, Eisai, Fosun, GAP Foundation, Green Valley, Janssen, 
Karuna, Kinoxis, Lighthouse, Lilly, Lundbeck, LSP/eqt, Mangrove Therapeutics, 
Merck, MoCA Cognition, New Amsterdam, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Otsuka, Oxford 
Brain Diagnostics, Praxis, Prothena, ReMYND, Roche, Scottish Brain Sciences, 
Signant Health, Simcere, sinaptica, T‐Neuro, TrueBinding, and Vaxxinity 
pharmaceutical, assessment, and investment companies. Jeffrey L. Cummings owns 
the copyright of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory. The rest of the authors (Grace 
J. Goodwin, Sebastian Mehrzad, Brenna N. Renn, Jefferson W. Kinney, and Samantha 
E. John) have no conflicts to disclose. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


23. Mol Psychiatry. 2025 Oct;30(10):4776-4791. doi: 10.1038/s41380-025-03073-2.
Epub  2025 Jun 17.

Cell autonomous microglia defects in a stem cell model of frontotemporal 
dementia tau.

Iyer AK(1), Vermunt L(2), Mirfakhar FS(1), Minaya M(1), Acquarone M(1), 
Koppisetti RK(1)(3), Renganathan A(1), You SF(1), Danhash EP(1), Schache KJ(1), 
Verbeck A(1), Galasso G(1), Lee SM(1), Huang G(1), Miller KJ(1), Marsh J(1), 
Nana AL(4), Spina S(4), Seeley WW(4)(5), Grinberg LT(4)(5)(6), Temple S(7), 
Teunissen CE(2), Sato C(3)(8), Karch CM(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, MO, 
USA.
(2)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, VU University, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)The Tracy Family Stable Isotope Labeling Quantitation Center, Washington 
University in St Louis, St Louis, MO, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, UCSF Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University 
of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(7)Neural Stem Cell Institute, Albany, NY, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, MO, 
USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, MO, 
USA. karchc@wustl.edu.
(10)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University in St Louis, 
St Louis, MO, USA. karchc@wustl.edu.
(11)Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. karchc@wustl.edu.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 May 16:2024.05.15.24307444. doi: 10.1101/2024.05.15.24307444.

Neuronal dysfunction has been extensively studied as a central feature of 
neurodegenerative tauopathies. However, across neurodegenerative diseases, there 
is strong evidence for active involvement of immune cells like microglia in 
driving disease pathophysiology. Here, we demonstrate that MAPT mRNA and 
tau protein are expressed in microglia in human brains and in human induced 
pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived microglia like cells (iMGLs). Using iMGLs 
harboring the MAPT IVS10 + 16 mutation and isogenic controls, we demonstrate 
that a tau mutation is sufficient to alter microglial transcriptional states. We 
discovered that MAPT IVS10 + 16 microglia exhibit cytoskeletal abnormalities, 
stalled phagocytosis, disrupted TREM2/TYROBP networks, and altered metabolism. 
Additionally, we found that secretory factors from MAPT IVS10 + 16 iMGLs impact 
neuronal health, reducing synaptic density in neurons. Key features observed in 
vitro were recapitulated in human brain tissue and cerebrospinal fluid from MAPT 
mutations carriers. Together, our findings that MAPT IVS10 + 16 drives 
cell-intrinsic dysfunction in microglia that impacts neuronal health has major 
implications for development of therapeutics for tauopathies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41380-025-03073-2
PMCID: PMC12436154
PMID: 40527900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


24. Trends Neurosci. 2025 Jul;48(7):523-537. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2025.05.004.
Epub  2025 Jun 16.

Progranulin function and regulation in the CNS.

Life BE(1), Leavitt BR(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics, BC Children's Hospital 
Research Institute, Vancouver, BC V5Z 4H4, Canada; Department of Medical 
Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6H 0B3, Canada.
(2)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia 
Hospital, Vancouver, BC V6T 2B5, Canada; Center for Brain Health, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3, Canada. Electronic address: 
bleavitt@cmmt.ubc.ca.

Dysregulated progranulin expression is robustly associated with diseases of the 
central nervous system (CNS). Recent research has been progressing toward a 
mechanistic understanding of the role of progranulin in CNS disease 
pathophysiology. In this review we describe the consequences of dysregulated 
progranulin expression in experimental and disease states. Collectively, these 
studies reveal that progranulin has diverse roles as a cell signaling molecule 
that regulates lysosomal function, immune processes, and growth. Given the 
functional and pathological implications of aberrant progranulin expression, we 
also summarize the mechanisms of progranulin regulation. We then highlight 
therapeutic strategies for progranulin upregulation. Ultimately, we explore the 
relationship between progranulin function and regulation with the goals of 
identifying key open questions and facilitating rational therapeutic 
development.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2025.05.004
PMID: 40527697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests B.R.L. has served on 
the Scientific Advisory Board of sRNAlytics (now GateHouse Bio) for which he 
received stock options. He reports scientific consultancy fees from Alnylam, 
Teva, Roche/Genentech, Takeda, Triplet, Ionis, Novartis, Spark, Scintetica, 
LifeEdit, Design, Remix Therapeutics, Third Rock, and PTC Therapeutics. B.R.L. 
has obtained previous and current research grants from the Canadian Institutes 
of Health Research (CIHR), the Huntington Society of Canada (HSC), the 
NanoMedicines Innovation Network (NMIN), the Cure Huntington’s Disease 
Initiative (CHDI), Teva, ProMIS, and uniQure. He is a founding 
co-editor-in-chief, Journal of Huntington's Disease, former co-chair of the 
Huntington Study Group, and is a cofounder and CEO of Incisive Genetics Inc., in 
which he has patents, stock, and stock options. B.E.L. declares no competing 
interests.


25. Trends Neurosci. 2025 Aug;48(8):608-623. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2025.05.009.
Epub  2025 Jun 16.

What would it take to prove that a chronic infection is a causal agent in 
Alzheimer's disease?

Brutkiewicz RR(1), Cao W(2), Morgan D(3), Reis RSD(4), Suryadevara V(5), 
Willette AA(6), Willette SA(7), Wyatt-Johnson SK(8), Duggan MR(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Stark Neuroscience Research 
Institute, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA. 
Electronic address: rbrutkie@iu.edu.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Critical Care and Pain Medicine, McGovern 
Medical School, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, 
TX 77030, USA.
(3)Department of Translational Neuroscience, College of Human Medicine, Michigan 
State University, Grand Rapids, MI 49503, USA.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases and Microbiology, School of Public Health, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15263, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, 
CA 94305, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, 
NJ 08901, USA.
(7)IAC Tracker, Inc., Ames, IA 50014, USA.
(8)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Stark Neuroscience Research 
Institute, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(9)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, National 
Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Accumulating evidence over several years suggests that microbial infections 
(e.g., bacteria, viruses, fungi) may play a role in the etiology of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). In this review, we discuss the reported associations between a 
variety of microbes and the development of AD, as well as potential causal 
relationships between infections and AD risk. Having evaluated the current state 
of knowledge, we make specific recommendations for what it would take to present 
definitive evidence that chronic infections play a causal role in AD 
pathogenesis.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2025.05.009
PMCID: PMC12350065
PMID: 40527696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests D.M. serves on advisory 
boards for Synaps Dx, MindImmune, and In Med Therapeutics. He consults with 
Hesperos, Inc. and engages in research studies with Bright Minds Bio. The other 
authors declare no competing interests in relation to this work.


26. Brain Behav Immun. 2025 Oct;129:521-536. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2025.06.019. Epub
 2025 Jun 15.

TNFR2 contributes to synaptic potentiation failure in hippocampal synapses and 
memory loss in a familial Alzheimer's disease mouse model.

Almazán JL(1), Cortes-Flores E(1), Ramírez-Olvera A(1), Palomero-Rivero M(2), 
Camacho-Concha N(1), Guerra-Crespo M(3), Prieto GA(4), Pérez-Martínez L(1), 
Pedraza-Alva G(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Neuroinmunobiología, Departamento de Medicina Molecular y 
Bioprocesos. Instituto de Biotecnología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México 
(UNAM), 62210 Cuernavaca, Mor., Mexico.
(2)Departamento de Neurodesarrollo y Fisiología, División de Neurociencias, 
Instituto de Fisiología celular, UNAM, 04510 CDMX, Mexico.
(3)Laboratorio de Medicina Regenerativa, Departamento de Fisiología, Facultad de 
Medicina, UNAM, 04510 CdMx., Mexico.
(4)Laboratorio de Códigos Moleculares de la Memoria, Departamento de 
Neurobiología Celular y Molecular, Instituto de Neurobiología, UNAM, 76230 
Juriquilla, Qro., Mexico.
(5)Laboratorio de Neuroinmunobiología, Departamento de Medicina Molecular y 
Bioprocesos. Instituto de Biotecnología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México 
(UNAM), 62210 Cuernavaca, Mor., Mexico. Electronic address: 
gustavo.pedraza@ibt.unam.mx.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a critical health problem with a projected increase 
in prevalence, demanding more efforts to find an effective treatment. AD is 
characterized by amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation, which drives neuroinflammation. 
Aβ-mediated Caspase-1-dependent neuroinflammation fuels memory loss through 
pro-inflammatory cytokines signaling. For instance, TNF promotes synaptic 
plasticity dysfunction impairing long-term potentiation (LTP), an early hallmark 
of AD. Thus, targeting TNF receptors (TNFR1 and TNFR2) with antagonists/agonists 
is a promising therapeutic strategy. Here, we found that intrahippocampal 
administration of a TNFR2-specific blocking antibody improved recognition 
memory, spatial memory, and synaptic potentiation in response to chemically 
induced LTP (cLTP) in 5xFAD mice. Additionally, we found that TNFR2 predominates 
over TNFR1 on the surface of hippocampal synaptosomes from wild-type mice and 
that TNFR2 levels increased on the synaptosomal surface of 5xFAD mice in a 
Caspase-1-dependent manner. Notably, Caspase-1 deletion and TNFR2 blocking 
improved synaptic potentiation of hippocampal synaptosomes from 5xFAD mice in 
response to cLTP. TNF signaling via TNFR2 also reduced cell viability and 
impaired BDNF-mediated neurite outgrowth in SN56 cholinergic cells. Thus, our 
data reveal that TNFR2 contributes to neuron- and synapse-specific deleterious 
effects, impacting the memory of 5xFAD mice, suggesting that TNFR2-dependent 
signaling at the synapsis should be considered for AD treatment.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2025.06.019
PMID: 40527437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


27. Exp Neurol. 2025 Oct;392:115349. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115349. Epub
2025  Jun 15.

Short-chain fatty acids are a key mediator of gut microbial regulation of T cell 
trafficking and differentiation after traumatic brain injury.

Celorrio M(1), Shumilov K(2), Ni A(3), Ayerra L(4), Self WK(5), de Francisca 
NLV(6), Rodgers R(7), Schriefer LA(8), Garcia B(9), Aymerich MS(10), Layden 
BT(11), Egervari G(12), Baldridge MT(13), Friess SH(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, and Division of Infectious Diseases, Washington 
University in St. Louis School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. Electronic 
address: m.c.narvarro@wustl.edu.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, 
Virginia, USA. Electronic address: Kirill.ShumilovBartenev@vcuhealth.org.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, and Division of Infectious Diseases, Washington 
University in St. Louis School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. Electronic 
address: allen.ni@wustl.edu.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, University of Navarre, Pamplona, 
Spain; Gene Therapy for Neurological diseases, CIMA-University of Navarre, 
Pamplona, Spain. Electronic address: layerra.1@unav.es.
(5)Department of Neurology, Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Knight 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Washington University in St. Louis, St. 
Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: wade.self@wustl.edu.
(6)Deptartment of Biochemistry & Molecular Biophysics Washington University in 
St. Louis School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: 
vitorino@wustl.edu.
(7)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Edison Family Center 
for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University in St. Louis 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: 
rachel.rodgers@wustl.edu.
(8)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Edison Family Center 
for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University in St. Louis 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: 
lschriefer@wustl.edu.
(9)Deptartment of Biochemistry & Molecular Biophysics Washington University in 
St. Louis School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: 
bagarcia@wustl.edu.
(10)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, University of Navarre, Pamplona, 
Spain; Gene Therapy for Neurological diseases, CIMA-University of Navarre, 
Pamplona, Spain. Electronic address: maymerich@unav.es.
(11)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, 
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA; Department of Medicine, 
Jesse Brown Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA. Electronic 
address: blayde1@UIC.EDU.
(12)Deptartment of Biochemistry & Molecular Biophysics Washington University in 
St. Louis School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: 
gabor@wustl.edu.
(13)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Edison Family 
Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University in St. 
Louis School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: 
mbaldridge@wustl.edu.
(14)Department of Pediatrics, and Division of Infectious Diseases, Washington 
University in St. Louis School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. Electronic 
address: friess@wustll.edu.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 Nov 21:rs.3.rs-5397327. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-5397327/v1.

The gut microbiota has emerged as a pivotal regulator of host inflammatory 
processes after traumatic brain injury (TBI). However, the mechanisms by which 
the gut microbiota communicates to the brain in TBI are still under 
investigation. We previously reported that gut microbiota depletion (GMD) using 
antibiotics after TBI resulted in increased microglial activation, reduced 
neurogenesis, and reduced T cell infiltration. In the present study, we have 
demonstrated that intestinal T cells contribute to the pool of cells 
infiltrating the brain after TBI. Depletion or genetic deletion of T cells 
before injury reversed GMD induced reductions in post-TBI neurogenesis. 
Short-chain fatty acid supplementation increased T regulatory and T helper 1 
cell infiltration to the brain along with restoring neurogenesis and microglia 
activation after TBI with GMD. These data suggest that T cell subsets are 
essential cellular mediators by which the gut microbiota modulates TBI 
pathogenesis, a finding with important therapeutic implications.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115349
PMID: 40527418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


28. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Jul 2;16(13):2336-2339. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00383. Epub 2025 Jun 17.

Targeting Acetylcholinesterase with Oxytocin: A New Avenue in Alzheimer's 
Disease Therapeutics.

Danta CC(1), Chaudhari P(1), Nefzi A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Herbert Wertheim College of Medicine, Center for Translational Science, 
Florida International University, Port Saint Lucie, Florida 34987, United 
States.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, College of Arts, Sciences & 
Education, Florida International University, Miami, Florida 33199, United 
States.

Oxytocin, the so-called natural love hormone, is a neuropeptide comprising nine 
amino acids with an active aliphatic disulfide bond forming the cyclic ring 
through cysteine1-cysteine6 residues. Oxytocin synthesizes in hypothalamus and 
acts as a neurotransmitter. Oxytocin receptors are present in many areas of 
brain such as the hypothalamus that involve in the pathophysiology of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Since 1987, it has been postulated that oxytocin could 
be useful in the treatment of AD as it showed some positive outcomes when 
injected into the hypothalamus in experimental animals. However, in recent 
years, some reports suggested that oxytocin decreases the amyloid-β (Aβ) and tau 
deposition in AD animal experiments and exhibited antioxidant and 
anti-inflammatory properties, therefore, acting as a neuroprotective agent. In 
addition, even though evidence is limited, recently, it has also been reported 
that oxytocin is capable of inhibiting acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and can 
reverse learning and memory impairment in AD animal models but the in vitro 
enzyme inhibition data have not been reported yet. Therefore, as it is well 
documented that AChE inhibition leads to an increase of acetylcholine level and 
a decrease of Aβ and tau deposition in brain, discovery and development of 
oxytocin and its analogues as potential future drug candidates for the treatment 
of AD would be an attractive and promising approach.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00383
PMID: 40527057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Curr Nutr Rep. 2025 Jun 17;14(1):80. doi: 10.1007/s13668-025-00669-6.

Role of Galangin for the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease: Journey So Far and 
Road Ahead.

Sharma P(#)(1), Sharma T(#)(1), Bashir B(1), Andotra N(1), Awasthi A(2), Patel 
P(1), Subramaniyan V(3), Chellappan DK(4), Gupta G(5)(6), Vishwas S(7), Singh 
SK(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
Punjab, 144411, India.
(2)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, 140401, 
India.
(3)School of Medical and Life Sciences, Sunway University, Sunway City, 47500, 
Malaysia.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, School of Pharmacy, International Medical 
University, Bukit Jalil, Kuala Lumpur, 57000, Malaysia.
(5)Uttaranchal Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Uttaranchal University, 
Dehradun, India.
(6)Centre of Medical and Bio-Allied Health Sciences Research, Ajman University, 
Ajman, United Arab Emirates.
(7)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, 140401, 
India. sukriti.vishwas@chitkara.edu.in.
(8)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
Punjab, 144411, India. singhsachin23@gmail.com.
(9)School of Medical and Life Sciences, Sunway University, Sunway City, 47500, 
Malaysia. singhsachin23@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

DOI: 10.1007/s13668-025-00669-6
PMID: 40526360

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


30. Cell Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jun 17;45(1):57. doi: 10.1007/s10571-025-01579-5.

Pyroptosis in Alzheimer's Disease: Mechanisms and Therapeutic Potential.

Tang T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, People's Hospital of Deyang City, No. 173, 
Section 1, Taishan North Road, Jingyang District, Deyang, 618000, Sichuan 
Province, P. R. China. TianT5829@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), and neuroinflammation. Recent 
research has revealed that pyroptosis, an inflammatory programmed cell death 
(PCD), plays a crucial role in AD pathology. The pyroptosis signaling cascade 
triggered by β-amyloid (Aβ) and hyperphosphorylated tau protein leads to the 
release of proinflammatory cytokines, forming a 
"neuroinflammation-neurodegeneration" vicious cycle. Therapeutic strategies 
targeting the pyroptosis signaling pathway show promise, with evidence 
suggesting that inhibition of inflammasomes, caspase-1, or gasdermin D (GSDMD) 
can alleviate AD-related pathological features. However, the specificity of the 
existing inhibitors is insufficient, and research on non-classical pyroptosis 
pathway remains in its early stages. More mechanisms and therapeutic strategies 
targeting pyroptosis-related pathway need to be explored to enhance the 
therapeutic efficacy. Targeting the pyroptosis pathway provides a novel 
direction for AD treatment. Exploring and summarizing its mechanisms along with 
the clinical translational applications of targeted inhibitors will offer fresh 
perspectives for moving beyond traditional "symptom control" therapies and 
achieving "pathology-modifying" interventions, holding significant scientific 
and clinical importance.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10571-025-01579-5
PMCID: PMC12174016
PMID: 40526193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest. Ethical Approval: The manuscript 
does not contain clinical studies or patient data.


31. Brain Inform. 2025 Jun 17;12(1):16. doi: 10.1186/s40708-025-00259-w.

Enhancing cerebral infarct classification by automatically extracting relevant 
fMRI features.

Dobromyslin VI(1), Zhou W(2); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)University of Massachusetts, Lowell, MA, USA.
(2)University of Massachusetts, Lowell, MA, USA. Wenjin_Zhou@uml.edu.

Accurate detection of cortical infarct is critical for timely treatment and 
improved patient outcomes. Current brain imaging methods often require invasive 
procedures that primarily assess blood vessel and structural white matter 
damage. There is a need for non-invasive approaches, such as functional MRI 
(fMRI), that better reflect neuronal viability. This study utilized automated 
machine learning (auto-ML) techniques to identify novel infarct-specific fMRI 
biomarkers specifically related to chronic cortical infarcts. We analyzed 
resting-state fMRI data from the multi-center ADNI dataset, which included 20 
chronic infarct patients and 30 cognitively normal (CN) controls. This study 
utilized automated machine learning (auto-ML) techniques to identify novel fMRI 
biomarkers specifically related to chronic cortical infarcts. Surface-based 
registration methods were applied to minimize partial-volume effects typically 
associated with lower resolution fMRI data. We evaluated the performance of 7 
previously known fMRI biomarkers alongside 107 new auto-generated fMRI 
biomarkers across 33 different classification models. Our analysis identified 6 
new fMRI biomarkers that substantially improved infarct detection performance 
compared to previously established metrics. The best-performing combination of 
biomarkers and classifiers achieved a cross-validation ROC score of 0.791, 
closely matching the accuracy of diffusion-weighted imaging methods used in 
acute stroke detection. Our proposed auto-ML fMRI infarct-detection technique 
demonstrated robustness across diverse imaging sites and scanner types, 
highlighting the potential of automated feature extraction to significantly 
enhance non-invasive infarct detection.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40708-025-00259-w
PMCID: PMC12173967
PMID: 40526162

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: VD was 
employed by Siemens Healthineers as a Scientist developing point-of-care blood 
sensors. The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of 
any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest.


32. Ann Med. 2025 Dec;57(1):2516697. doi: 10.1080/07853890.2025.2516697. Epub
2025  Jun 17.

Unlocking the potential: advancements and applications of gene therapy in severe 
disorders.

Ingle RG(1), M Elossaily G(2), Ansari MN(3), Makhijani S(1).

Author information:
(1)Datta Meghe College of Pharmacy, Datta Meghe Institute of Higher Education & 
Research (DMIHER), Deemed to be University, Wardha, India.
(2)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, AlMaarefa 
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, College of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam 
Bin Abdulaziz University, Alkharj, Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: Several severe disorders, such as inherited diseases (e.g. cystic 
fibrosis and beta thalassemia), genetic diseases (e.g. malignant tumors and 
diabetes), and infectious diseases (e.g. HIV) are pose significant challenges to 
human health.
BACKGROUND: Over the past few decades, researchers have been working on gene 
therapies, and currently, terrible dreams have come true. To date, the Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) has approved multiple gene therapies such as Kynamro 
for familial hypercholesterolaemia, Exondys51 for duchenne muscular dystrophy, 
Spinraza for spinal muscular atrophy, etc., rest for cancer, infectious 
diseases, and rare diseases.
DISCUSSION: The authors have summarized recent advances in gene therapy, its 
background, molecular basis (e.g. viral and non-viral vectors), gene-editing 
techniques (e.g. CRISPR/Cas9, TALEN, ZFN), and its foremost applications in 
severe disorders, such as cancer, monogenic disorders (e.g. spinal muscular 
atrophy), polygenic disorders (e.g. autism), neurogenic disorders (e.g. 
Parkinson disease and Alzheimer's disease), and infectious diseases (e.g. HIV).
CHALLENGES: In addition, we explored the major challenges faced by gene 
therapies during targeted delivery, immunogenicity, efficacy, and safety.
CONCLUSION: To date, most of the promising approaches, such as different 
vectors, target cell populations, and both in vivo and ex vivo have paved the 
foundation for applications of gene therapies. Additionally, advances in 
enhancing the immune system that would certainly lower the healthcare costs. 
This review highlights the translatory potential of gene therapy in 
revolutionizing the treatment landscape for severe disorders.

DOI: 10.1080/07853890.2025.2516697
PMCID: PMC12175193
PMID: 40526097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


33. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2025 Jun 17:10.1111/jgs.19554. doi: 10.1111/jgs.19554.
Online  ahead of print.

Detection of Alzheimer's Disease Neuropathology in Chronic Kidney Disease: 
Current State and Future Directions.

Gupta A(1), Mielke MM(2), Tariot PN(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas 
City, Kansas, USA.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Prevention, Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(4)University of Arizona College of Medicine, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.

The prevalence of both chronic kidney disease (CKD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
increases with age. With the rise in average life expectancy, clinicians will be 
more likely to encounter patients with both CKD and cognitive concerns, 
including some with AD neuropathology. The prevalence of AD neuropathology and 
the nature of the interaction between AD neuropathology and vascular brain 
alterations in individuals with CKD are unclear. AD blood-based biomarkers (BBM) 
are promising tools for detecting AD neuropathology and are being reviewed by 
the FDA for clinical use. However, AD BBMs do not perform reliably in CKD and 
can be elevated even in the absence of AD neuropathology (false positive). AD 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers are also altered in CKD, further 
complicating the detection of AD neuropathology in this population. It is 
important for clinicians to understand the limitations of AD BBMs and perhaps 
CSF biomarkers in the real world, where there is a higher prevalence of CKD and 
other comorbidities compared to the population samples in which they have been 
studied. Even if the prevalence of AD neuropathology in CKD is not higher than 
that in the general population, it is important to accurately detect AD 
neuropathology among individuals with CKD, so that the new anti-amyloid 
monoclonal antibodies can be used appropriately. This special article addresses 
the concerns with the use of AD BBM in the detection of AD neuropathology and 
the caution needed while using AD BBMs in clinical care.

© 2025 The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.19554
PMCID: PMC12354189
PMID: 40525987

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Gupta receives grant support from the 
National Institute of Health and Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute 
(PCORI). Dr. Mielke has served on scientific advisory boards and/or has 
consulted for Acadia, Althira, Biogen, Cognito Therapeutics, Eisai, Lilly, 
Merck, Novo Nordisk, and Roche; received speaking honoraria from Novo Nordisk, 
PeerView Institute, and Roche; and receives grant support from the National 
Institute of Health, Department of Defense, Alzheimer’s Association, and Davos 
Alzheimer’s Collaborative. Dr. Tariot reports research support from Eli Llly and 
Co., consulting fees from AbbVie, AC Immune, Acadia, Athira, Axsome, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Cognition Therapeutics, Cognito Therapeutics, Corium, CuraSen, 
Eisai, Immunobrain, Janssen, Lundbeck, MapLight, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, 
Otsuka, Roche, T3D Therapeutics, and speaking fees from Novo Nordisk.


34. Recent Adv Inflamm Allergy Drug Discov. 2025 Jun 13. doi: 
10.2174/0127722708364435250604032539. Online ahead of print.

Pharmacological Characterization of Ruellia tuberosa Ethanolic Extract in a 
Rodent Model of Cognitive Impairment.

Kumar R(1), Tyagi N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, SRM Modinagar College of Pharmacy, SRM Institute 
of Science and Technology (Deemed to be University), Delhi-NCR Campus, 
Modinagar, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, 201204, India.

INTRODUCTION: Cognitive impairment linked to neurodegenerative diseases poses a 
considerable challenge, requiring the exploration of plant-derived therapeutic 
alternatives. Ruellia tuberosa, a medicinal plant recognized for its 
anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, was examined for its therapeutic 
potential in a rodent model of memory impairment.
METHOD: The present study aimed to evaluate the effects of Ruellia tuberosa 
ethanolic extract (RTEE) on aluminium chloride (AlCl3)-induced Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) in adult Wistar rats. In-vitro cell line study showed decreased 
formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), decreased levels of IL-6 
(Interleukin-6), and suppressed NF-κB (Nuclear factor kappa-B) translocation, 
which further confirmed RTEE's antioxidant and anti-inflammatory 
characteristics. Following the objective, thirty adult Wistar rats were taken 
and divided into five groups (n=6). They were treated with Normal saline, AlCl3 
(100 mg/kg), DPZ (Donepezil- 3 mg/kg), and RTEE (100 and 200 mg/kg), 
respectively, for 35 days.
RESULTS: Various behavioral and biochemical parameters, along with the oxidative 
and inflammatory biomarkers, were assessed to determine the effects of RTEE. The 
plant extract at both the doses (100 and 200 mg/kg) demonstrated increased body 
weight, improved motor coordination as demonstrated by an increase in fall-off 
time on the Rota rod apparatus, decreased escape latency in the Morris water 
maze test, reduced transfer latency (TL) in the elevated plus maze test, 
increased time spent in the target quadrant, and increased exploration time in 
the novel object recognition test. Furthermore, RTEE treatment exhibited 
decreased levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) 
activity and increased levels of glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), 
catalase (CAT), and total protein. Additionally, RTEE reduced levels of 
inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-α and IL-1β, which decreased 
neuroinflammation and amyloid-beta levels. Additionally, the extract exhibited 
cholinergic system modulation, as observed by improved acetylcholinesterase 
activity, suggesting its potential role in neurotransmitter regulation. 
Histopathological study further confirmed its neuroprotective potential by 
reducing neuronal degeneration in brain regions (hippocampus and cortex).
CONCLUSION: According to the study's findings, memory impairment in the 
AlCl3-induced rat model of AD was ameliorated by both doses of RTEE. However, 
further studies need to be conducted to establish its therapeutic effects in 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0127722708364435250604032539
PMID: 40525437


35. Med Chem. 2025;21(5):367-384. doi: 10.2174/0115734064318657240822064240.

Exploring Cannabis sativa L for Anti-Alzheimer Potential: An Extensive 
Computational Study including Molecular Docking, Molecular Dynamics, and ADMET 
Assessments.

Nour H(1), Yamari I(1), Abchir O(1), Mounadi N(1), Samadi A(2), Belaidi S(3), 
Chtita S(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Analytical and Molecular Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences Ben 
M'Sik, Hassan II University of Casablanca, Morocco.
(2)Department of Chemistry, College of Science, United Arab Emirates University, 
Al Ain P.O. Box 15551, United Arab Emirates.
(3)Group of Computational and Medicinal Chemistry, LMCE Laboratory, University 
of Biskra, BP 145, Biskra 707000, Algeria.

INTRODUCTION: Cholinesterase enzymes play a pivotal role in hydrolyzing 
acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter crucial for memory and cognition, into its 
components, acetic acid, and choline. A primary approach in addressing 
Alzheimer's disease symptoms is by inhibiting the action of these enzymes.
METHODS: With this context, our study embarked on a mission to pinpoint 
potential Cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors using a comprehensive computational 
methodology. A total of 49 phytoconstituents derived from Cannabis sativa L 
underwent in silico screening via molecular docking, pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacotoxicological analysis, to evaluate their ability to inhibit 
cholinesterase enzymes. Out of these, two specific compounds, namely 
tetrahydrocannabivarin and Δ-9- tetrahydrocannabinol, belonging to cannabinoids, 
stood out as prospective therapeutic agents against Alzheimer's due to their 
potential as cholinesterase inhibitors. These candidates showcased commendable 
binding affinities with the cholinesterase enzymes, highlighting their 
interaction with essential enzymatic residues.
RESULTS: They were predicted to exhibit greater binding affinities than 
Rivastigmine and Galantamine. Their ADMET assessments further classified them as 
viable oral pharmaceutical drugs. They are not expected to induce any mutagenic 
or hepatotoxic effects and cannot produce skin sensitization. In addition, these 
phytoconstituents are predicted to be BBB permeable and can reach the central 
nervous system (CNS) and exert their therapeutic effects. To delve deeper, we 
explored molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to examine the stability of the 
complex formed between the best candidate (Δ-9-tetrahydrocannabinol) and the 
target proteins under simulated biological conditions. The MD study affirmed 
that the ligand-ChE recognition is a spontaneous reaction leading to stable 
complexes.
CONCLUSION: Our research outcomes provide valuable insights, offering a clear 
direction for the pharmaceutical sector in the pursuit of effective 
anti-Alzheimer treatments.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115734064318657240822064240
PMID: 40525419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2025 Jun 25;27(25):13714-13726. doi: 10.1039/d5cp01420d.

Epinephrine destabilizes Alzheimer's disease-related tau protofibril and fibril: 
a computational study.

Tang J(1), Feng D(2), Wang F(1), Guan L(2), Xu Z(3), Zou Y(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Education, Xiangnan University, 889 Chenzhou Avenue, 
Chenzhou 423000, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Sport and Exercise Science, College of Education, Zhejiang 
University, 866 Yuhangtang Road, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, People's Republic of 
China. zouyuzy@zju.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Physical Education, Shanghai University of Engineering Science, 
333 Long Teng Road, Shanghai, 201620, People's Republic of China.

The aggregation of hyperphosphorylated tau protein into neurofibrillary tangles 
(NFTs) is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Inhibiting tau aggregation 
or disrupting preformed fibrillar aggregates may be legitimate therapeutic 
approaches for AD. Epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, is an endogenous small 
molecule secreted by the adrenal medulla and can be stimulated by resistance 
exercise. It was proved to inhibit tau aggregation in vitro. However, atomic 
insights into the influence of EP on the AD-related tau remain largely unclear. 
In this work, we performed all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations on the 
R3-R4 (the third and fourth repeat) tau protofibril and fibril associated with 
AD, without and with EP molecules. The results reveal that EP can increase the 
structural instability and flexibility of the R3-R4 protofibril, and elicit a 
β-sheet-to-coil transformation and loosely-packed conformation. More 
importantly, EP remodels the K353-D358 salt-bridges that play a vital role in 
stabilizing the protofibril configuration. Binding analysis determines that EP 
binds with the protofibril preferentially through hydrophobic, hydrogen-bonding 
(H-bonding), π-π stacking and cation-π interactions. On the other hand, EP 
destabilizes and may reverse a liquid-to-solid phase transition (LSPT) of the 
AD-related tau fibril. The binding modes of EP with the fibrils exhibit 
differences to those with the protofibrils. By disclosing these findings, our 
work provides helpful clues for drug candidate design and exercise therapy for 
treating AD.

DOI: 10.1039/d5cp01420d
PMID: 40525347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Bioanalysis. 2025 Jun;17(11):747-757. doi: 10.1080/17576180.2025.2518044.
Epub  2025 Jun 17.

Simultaneous estimation of donepezil and quercetin using ultra high performance 
liquid chromatography: pharmaceutical and pharmacokinetic applications in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Tripathi S(1)(2), Rana R(1)(2), Chakradhar J(1)(3), Mishra K(1)(2), Jaiswal 
S(1)(3), Sethi M(1)(3), Tiwari AK(1)(3), Chourasia MK(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics, CSIR-Central Drug Research 
Institute, Lucknow, India.
(2)Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), New Delhi, India.
(3)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, India.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects over 55.2 million individuals 
globally with current treatment modalities only providing symptomatic relief. 
This highlights the importance of combination therapies which target multiple 
pathways simultaneously. Donepezil (DNP), an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, 
when combined with Quercetin (QCT), a polyhydroxy flavonoid with neuroprotective 
properties, might alter progression. However, simultaneous estimation of DNP and 
QCT for concurrent delivery, calls for robust analytical method that can 
simultaneously estimate both drugs.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A simple, robust, and cost-friendly UHPLC method 
for simultaneous estimation of DNP and QCT was developed. The analytes were 
resolved on C18 column (Kromasil C18, 4.6 × 250 mm), with acetonitrile and 0.1% 
diethyl amine buffer, adjusted to pH 3.5 with glacial acetic acid as mobile 
phase in ratio 50:50 v/v at 0.6 mL/min, at column oven temperature 40°C in total 
analysis run time of 10 min.
RESULTS: DNP and QCT were quantified by PDA detector at 268 nm and 370 nm, 
respectively. The developed method was found to be linear, accurate, precise, 
specific, and robust as per ICH guidelines.
CONCLUSION: The developed and validated method efficiently quantified DNP and 
QCT co-loaded inside liposomes estimating their entrapment efficiency, loading 
efficiency, and in vivo plasma kinetics.

Plain Language Summary: AD is a progressive brain disorder that impairs 
cognitive function and causes loss of memory, impacting 55 million people across 
the globe. Current treatment modalities focus on providing symptomatic relief 
without stopping the progression of the disease. In order to address this unmet 
need, researchers are exploring combination therapies of drugs which target 
different disease pathways at the same time. In this study, two anti-Alzheimer’s 
compounds, DNP, a commonly marketed medication for AD and QCT, a neuroprotective 
natural antioxidant, have been studied together. However, in order to study both 
the molecules together, there must exist a simple and reliable way of doing so. 
A fast and cost-friendly method was developed using UHPLC, so as to separate and 
measure both DNP and QCT in a single run. The method was tested and found to be 
accurate, precise, specific, and reliable as per international standards. The 
application of this method was checked by fabricating dual drug loaded 
nanoparticles as vehicles. It helped analyze the amount of drug loaded in the 
nanocarrier and also how the drugs move through the bloodstream in animal 
models. This method will support future research of using DNP and QCT together 
in AD progression.

DOI: 10.1080/17576180.2025.2518044
PMCID: PMC12203863
PMID: 40525309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant affiliations or 
financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial interest 
in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the 
manuscript. This includes employment, consultancies, honoraria, stock ownership 
or options, expert testimony, grants or patents received or pending, or 
royalties. No writing assistance was utilized in the production of this 
manuscript.


38. Histol Histopathol. 2025 Jun 11:18948. doi: 10.14670/HH-18-948. Online ahead
of  print.

The effects of polysaccharides from Schizophyllum commune (Fr.) on amyloid-β and 
GFAP-induced neuronal injury in hippocampal regions of hyperlipidemia-affected 
rats.

Thipthong N(1), Chuaikhongthong W(1), Thipthong U(1), Komolkriengkrai M(1), 
Matsathit U(2), Khimmaktong W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Division of Health and Applied Sciences, Faculty of 
Science, Prince of Songkla University, Songkhla, Thailand.
(2)Division of Food Science and Nutrition, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Prince of Songkla University, Pattani, Thailand.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Division of Health and Applied Sciences, Faculty of 
Science, Prince of Songkla University, Songkhla, Thailand. wipapan.k@psu.ac.th.

AIMS: The hippocampal region is an essential area for memory. Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) continues to impact this brain region. It is caused by the 
accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) along with neurofibrillary tangles, together with 
glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression, which causes loss of 
synapses, resulting in memory problems. Consuming a high-fat diet (HFD) causes 
the abnormal production of certain neurotransmitters through the gut-brain axis 
system, resulting in hippocampal neuron damage. Therefore, this study examined 
the effects of polysaccharides from Schizophyllum commune (Fr.) or split-gill 
mushroom (SG) in rats induced with an HFD.
METHODS: The Y-maze test assessed spontaneous alternation percentages and 
short-term memory in all rat groups, while H&amp;E and Cresyl violet staining 
revealed alterations in the characteristics of neurons across treatment groups. 
Immunofluorescence was employed to identify the expressions of neurodegenerative 
and inflammatory proteins.
RESULTS: The short-term memory was evaluated using the Y-maze test, which found 
that the spontaneous alternation percentage was lower in the HFD group and 
higher in the HFD+SG group compared with the control group. Alterations in 
neuron characteristics were revealed by Cresyl violet and H&amp;E staining. The 
HFD group was found to have necrotic neurons; however, the HFD+SG group had less 
damage than the HFD group. Immunofluorescence observations indicated the 
expression of Aβ and GFAP proteins; the HFD group showed an increase in Aβ and 
GFAP accumulation, whereas in the HFD+SG group, these were significantly 
reduced.
CONCLUSIONS: The study demonstrated improvements in hippocampal neurons, 
suggesting that polysaccharides from SG may be able to lessen the harm caused to 
the brain by consuming an HFD.

©The Author(s) 2025. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative 
Commons CC-BY International License.

DOI: 10.14670/HH-18-948
PMID: 40525230


39. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2025 Jun 10;19:5009-5032. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S523737. 
eCollection 2025.

Homeopathy for Heteropathy: FSS and Its Components for the Treatment of 
Alzheimer's Disease and Endometriosis.

Yu Y(1), Sun T(2), Zhang J(2), Wu S(1), Tong X(3), Zhao F(3), Fu X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Lishui University, Lishui, 323000, Zhejiang Province, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, 
150040, Heilongjiang Province, People's Republic of China.
(3)Zhejiang University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Hangzhou, 310000, 
Zhejiang Province, People's Republic of China.

Foshou San (FSS), which is a traditional Chinese compound formula. So far, a 
variety of components have been isolated and identified from its complex 
composition. These findings endow it with diverse pharmacological activities. 
According to a number of studies, FSS has significant efficacy in treating 
cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and gynecological diseases like 
Endometriosis (EMs). Behind these curative effects, the specific chemical 
components of FSS play a crucial role. In this paper, the research progress of 
FSS in phytochemistry, pharmacology and pharmacokinetics are reviewed. Through 
comprehensive analysis of apoptosis regulation, oxidative stress and 
inflammation, ferroptosis, bile acid and intestinal flora, we further 
demonstrate the feasibility and potential of FSS in treating of AD and EMs. This 
not only reveals the potential mechanism of FSS, but also provides valuable 
experience and enlightenment for future research and application in related 
fields.

© 2025 Yu et al.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S523737
PMCID: PMC12169002
PMID: 40524806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


40. CPT Pharmacometrics Syst Pharmacol. 2025 Aug;14(8):1403-1415. doi: 
10.1002/psp4.70062. Epub 2025 Jun 17.

A Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Model That Describes Neurofilament Light 
Dynamics During Alzheimer's Disease Progression.

Maliukova P(1), Karelina T(1).

Author information:
(1)InSysBio CY Ltd., Limassol, Cyprus.

Neurofilament proteins are important constituents of neuronal cytoskeleton, 
along with microtubules. An increased concentration of neurofilament light (NfL) 
protein in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma is considered a potential 
biomarker of axonal degeneration, which occurs in various neurodegenerative 
diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD). The goal of this study was to 
develop a QSP model describing the change in the concentration of NfL in the 
brain, CSF, and plasma during the progression of AD for populations of AD 
patients manifesting different combinations of biomarkers (amyloid, tau, brain 
atrophy), to estimate the contributions of different mechanisms to 
neurodegeneration. The model correctly describes the dynamics of neurofilament 
proteins during neurodegeneration processes, which depend on cytoskeletal 
degradation and the release of neurofilament proteins from degenerated axons 
into cerebrospinal fluid and plasma. These processes are driven by disruptions 
of neuron homeostasis in AD, such as changes in protein degradation, axonal 
transport deficits, and the accumulation of pathological amyloid and 
hyperphosphorylated tau. The model was validated against clinical data and 
demonstrated correct predictions for anti-tau therapy while showing a tendency 
to overestimate efficacy of anti-amyloid therapy (lecanemab). This supports the 
idea that amyloid therapy contribution to neurodegeneration is limited, and that 
treatment should focus on other mechanisms.

© 2025 The Author(s). CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology 
and Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1002/psp4.70062
PMCID: PMC12358314
PMID: 40524556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


41. J Biomed Sci. 2025 Jun 16;32(1):57. doi: 10.1186/s12929-025-01150-w.

Targeting neuroinflammation: 3-monothiopomalidomide a new drug candidate to 
mitigate traumatic brain injury and neurodegeneration.

Hsueh SC(#)(1), Parekh P(#)(1), Batsaikhan B(1), Vargesson N(2), Tweedie D(1), 
Luo W(1), Patel CN(1), Liu D(1), McDevitt RA(3), Baig AM(4), Kim YK(5), Kim 
S(5), Hwang I(5), Kim J(5), Lee MY(5), Carta AR(6), Selman WR(7), Hoffer BJ(8), 
Kim DS(5)(9), Greig NH(10).

Author information:
(1)Drug Design & Development Section, Translational Gerontology Branch, 
Intramural Research Program National Institute on Aging, NIH, Baltimore, MD, 
21224, USA.
(2)School of Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition, Institute of Medical 
Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, AB25 2ZD, Scotland, UK.
(3)Comparative Medicine Section, National Institute on Aging, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.
(4)St. George Hospital, 83043, Bad Aibling, Germany.
(5)Aevis Bio Inc., Daejeon, 34141, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.
(7)The Marcus Neuroscience Institute, Baptist Health South Florida, Boca Raton, 
USA.
(8)Hoffer Consulting, Cleveland, OH, 44124, USA.
(9)AevisBio, Inc., Gaithersburg, MD, 20878, USA.
(10)Drug Design & Development Section, Translational Gerontology Branch, 
Intramural Research Program National Institute on Aging, NIH, Baltimore, MD, 
21224, USA. Greign@grc.nia.nih.gov.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) is a major risk factor for 
neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), with neuroinflammation playing a critical role in the secondary 
cell death that exacerbates the initial injury. While targeting 
neuroinflammation holds significant therapeutic promise, clinical trials of 
available anti-inflammatory agents have fallen short. 3-Mono-thiopomalidomide 
(3-MP), a novel immunomodulatory imide drug (IMiD), was designed to curb 
inflammation without the adverse effects of traditional IMiDs and was evaluated 
across models involving neuroinflammation.
METHODS: 3-MP anti-inflammatory activity was evaluated across cellular (RAW 
264.7, IMG cells) and mouse studies following lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-challenge 
(for pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines), and mice subjected to 
controlled cortical impact (CCI) moderate traumatic brain injury (TBI). 3-MP 
human cereblon binding, including neosubstrate and molecular modeling 
evaluation, as well as chicken teratogenicity, ex vivo mouse and human stability 
studies, and mouse pharmacokinetics were appraised.
RESULTS: 3-MP binds human cereblon, a key protein in the E3 ubiquitin ligase 
complex, without triggering downstream cascades leading to thalidomide-like 
teratogenicity in chicken embryos. 3-MP reduces pro-inflammatory markers in 
LPS-stimulated mouse macrophage and microglial cell cultures, and lowers 
pro-inflammatory cytokine/chemokine levels in plasma and brain of mice 
challenged with systemic LPS without lowering anti-inflammatory IL-10. 3-MP 
readily enters brain following systemic administration, and achieves a 
brain/plasma concentration ratio of 0.44-0.47. 3-MP mitigates behavioral 
impairments and reduces activation of astrocytes and microglia in mice 
challenged with CCI TBI.
CONCLUSION: 3-MP represents a promising new class of thalidomide-like IMiDs with 
potent anti-inflammatory effects that offers potential for treating TBI and 
possibly other neurodegenerative diseases possessing a prominent 
neuroinflammatory component.

© 2025. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1186/s12929-025-01150-w
PMCID: PMC12172326
PMID: 40524167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This is a preclinical (non-clinical) research study that does not 
require ethics approval and consent to participate for human subjects. All 
preclinical animal studies were undertaken on fully approved Institutional 
Animal Care and Use Committee protocols (see Materials and Methods). Consent for 
publication: Not applicable (our manuscript does not contain any individual 
person’s data in any form). Competing interests: DSK, YKK, SK, MYL, JK and IH 
are employed by and have stock in Aevis Bio Inc., which has patent coverage on 
3-MP. All other authors declare a lack of competing of interest.


42. Biomark Med. 2025 Jul;19(13):501-508. doi: 10.1080/17520363.2025.2520154.
Epub  2025 Jun 16.

The Syn-D study: detection of cutaneous phosphorylated alpha-synuclein in mild 
cognitive impairment a trial protocol.

Gibbons CH(1)(2), Galasko D(3), Press D(1), Claassen D(4), Levine T(2), Freeman 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)CND Life Sciences, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Diego, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Skin biopsies have >95% sensitivity and specificity to detect the 
presence of phosphorylated alpha-synuclein (P-SYN).
OBJECTIVE: To determine the frequency of cutaneous P-SYN in patients with mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) due to suspected Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB).
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: The Syn-D study is a multicenter prospective 
clinical trial from ~10 centers across the United States that includes patients 
with MCI-AD or MCI-DLB.
METHODS: Patients will undergo skin biopsies for detection of P-SYN and plasma 
biomarkers for ptau-217 to determine biomarker positivity rates at the MCI stage 
and will be followed longitudinally to determine final clinical diagnosis as 
defined by an expert panel of clinicians blinded to biomarker results.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The co-primary outcomes include: 1) The sensitivity 
of skin biopsy detection of P-SYN in patients with clinical diagnoses of MCI due 
to DLB or AD at baseline and at 12-month follow-up 2) To report the frequency 
with which cutaneous deposition of P-SYN and blood-based AD biomarkers co-exist 
in a population of patients with MCI.
DISCUSSION: This will be the first in-vivo study to determine the co-existence 
of biomarkers for both diseases as a surrogate for co-pathology.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT05479552.

DOI: 10.1080/17520363.2025.2520154
PMCID: PMC12233825
PMID: 40523872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CHG: is employed by and has stock options in CND 
Life Sciences. DG: Has received compensation as a consultant for GE Healthcare, 
Eisai, Roche Diagnostics, Artery Therapeutics, Cognition Therapeutics. DP: Has 
received compensation for collaboration with NeuroXT. DC: Consultant for 
Alterity Therapeutics, Teva Pharmaceutical, Wave Life Sciences, PTC 
Therapeutics, Abbvie. TL: is employed by and has stock options in CND Life 
Sciences. RF: has received personal compensation and/or stock options for 
serving on scientific advisory boards of AlgoTx, CND Life Sciences, Glenmark, 
Glaxo-Smith Kline, Inhibikase, Eli Lilly, Maxona, Novartis, NeuroBo, Osmol, 
Regenacy, Theravance, and Vertex. He has also received personal compensation for 
his editorial activities (Editor) with Autonomic Neuroscience – Basic and 
Clinical. The authors have no other relevant affiliations or financial 
involvement with any organization or entity with a financial interest in or 
financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the 
manuscript apart from those disclosed.


43. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Jul 2;16(13):2420-2434. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00139. Epub 2025 Jun 16.

Neuroprotective Effects of a Benzofuran-Containing Selenium in a Mouse 
Alzheimer's Disease Model: Molecular, Biochemical, and Behavioral Analyses.

Hall TK(1), Paim MP(1), da Costa P(1), de Azevedo AR(2), Nascimento V(2), Neto 
JSS(3), Sousa FSS(4), Collares TV(4), Seixas FK(4), Brüning CA(1), Bortolatto 
CF(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Neuropharmacology (LABIONEM), 
Graduate Program in Biochemistry and Bioprospecting (PPGBBio), Chemical, 
Pharmaceutical, and Food Sciences Center (CCQFA), Federal University of Pelotas 
(UFPel), Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul 96010-900, Brazil.
(2)SupraSelen Laboratory, Department of Organic Chemistry, Institute of 
Chemistry, Federal Fluminense University, Valonguinho Campus, Niterói, Rio de 
Janeiro 24020-141 Brazil.
(3)LabRMN, Chemistry Institute, Federal University of Goiás, Goiânia, Goiás 
74690-900, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Cancer Biotechnology, Biotechnology Graduate Program, 
Technology Development Center, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, Rio 
Grande do Sul 96010-610, Brazil.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder mainly characterized by 
progressive cognitive decline, for which effective treatments remain limited, 
and selenium is known for its neuroprotective actions. Thus, this study 
evaluated the neuroprotective effects of the compound 
2-(((3-trifluoromethyl)phenyl(selenyl)methyl)-2,3-dihydrobenzofuran (TFSeB) in a 
streptozotocin (STZ)-induced AD model in male Swiss mice. The animals received 
intracerebroventricular injections of STZ (3 mg/kg, a neurotoxic agent) to 
induce cognitive deficits, followed by treatment with TFSeB (1 and 5 mg/kg, 
intragastrically). Behavioral tests revealed that, like positive control 
(memantine), the compound TFSeB improved memory performance in the Y-maze, novel 
object recognition, and passive avoidance tests, suggesting its ability to 
counteract STZ-induced memory impairments. Biochemical analyses showed that the 
compound reduced oxidative stress markers in the prefrontal cortex and 
cerebellum of mice exposed to STZ, including TBARS, ROS, and nitrite levels 
while increasing NPSH. STZ induced an increase in monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) 
activity in the hippocampus and cortex, as well as in acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE) activity in the cortex and cerebellum, which were reverted by TFSeB. 
Hippocampal RT-qPCR molecular analyses revealed that TFSeB modulated 
apoptosis-related proteins by increasing BCL-2 and decreasing BAX expression, 
favoring neuronal survival. Moreover, TFSeB increased brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor (BDNF) and nuclear factor erythroid 2 (NRF2), targets associated with 
neuroprotection. The compound also decreased key inflammatory and 
neurodegenerative markers, including nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), 
interleukin-6 (IL-6), and glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3B). In 
conclusion, the compound TFSeB demonstrates promising protective effects in a 
STZ-induced AD model by modulating key neurochemical, oxidative, and 
neuroinflammatory pathways.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00139
PMCID: PMC12232306
PMID: 40523837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Neuroscience. 2025 Aug 6;580:54-61. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.06.031. 
Epub 2025 Jun 14.

Δ133p53α-mediated inhibition of astrocyte senescence and neurotoxicity as a 
possible therapeutic approach for neurodegenerative diseases.

Horikawa I(1), Yamada L(2), Harris BT(3), Harris CC(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Human Carcinogenesis, Center for Cancer Research, National 
Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. 
Electronic address: horikawi@mail.nih.gov.
(2)Laboratory of Human Carcinogenesis, Center for Cancer Research, National 
Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(3)Departments of Neurology and Pathology, Georgetown University Medical Center, 
Washington, DC 20007, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Human Carcinogenesis, Center for Cancer Research, National 
Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. 
Electronic address: harrisc@mail.nih.gov.

Non-neuronal glial cells in the brain, such as astrocytes, play essential roles 
in maintaining the functional integrity of neuronal cells. A growing body of 
evidence suggests that cellular senescence of astrocytes, characterized by loss 
of proliferative potential and secretion of neurotoxic cytokines, makes 
significant contribution to neurotoxicity in Alzheimer's disease and a wide 
range of other neurodegenerative diseases. This review discusses the beneficial 
effects of Δ133p53α, a natural p53 protein isoform that inhibits p53-mediated 
cellular senescence, thereby protecting astrocytes from senescence, highlights 
its potential as a therapeutic target, and underscores the need for continued 
research in this area. Both in senescent human astrocytes in culture, whether 
induced by replicative exhaustion, irradiation or exposure to amyloid-β, and in 
brain tissues with increased senescent astrocytes from patients with Alzheimer's 
disease, the expression levels of endogenous Δ133p53α protein were consistently 
and significantly reduced. The lentiviral vector-driven expression of Δ133p53α 
protected cultured human astrocytes from cellular senescence and neurotoxic 
secretory phenotype, leading to their cellular reprogramming to a 
neuroprotective state associated with neurotrophic growth factors. We thus 
propose that Δ133p53α is worth testing as a therapeutic target that can be 
enhanced in a wide range of neurodegenerative diseases with accumulated 
senescent astrocytes, including Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and chronic traumatic encephalopathy due to 
traumatic brain injury. We hypothesize that a Δ133p53α-mediated cellular 
reprogramming approach and a senolytic or senomorphic approach, both targeting 
non-neuronal cells, may be complementary with each other, and may cooperate with 
neuron-protecting or amyloid-β-targeting therapies currently in use.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.06.031
PMCID: PMC12277063
PMID: 40523602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


45. Phytochemistry. 2025 Oct;238:114585. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2025.114585.
Epub  2025 Jun 14.

Uncamarins A-D, oxindole alkaloids from Philippine Uncaria longiflora and their 
anti-amyloidogenic properties.

Castro SG(1), Hosoya E(1), Kitajima M(1), Nakamura H(1), Manzano JAH(2), 
Alejandro GJD(2), Tan MA(3), Ishikawa H(4).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chiba University, Chiba, Japan.
(2)Research Center for the Natural and Applied Sciences and College of Science, 
University of Santo Tomas, Manila, Philippines.
(3)Research Center for the Natural and Applied Sciences and College of Science, 
University of Santo Tomas, Manila, Philippines. Electronic address: 
matan@ust.edu.ph.
(4)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chiba University, Chiba, Japan. 
Electronic address: h_ishikawa@chiba-u.jp.

Eight oxindole alkaloids of the Corynanthe-type, including four previously 
undescribed compounds, uncamarins A-D (1-4), were isolated from the leaves of 
Uncaria longiflora (Poir.) Merr. (Rubiaceae family) collected in the 
Philippines. The structures of the previously undescribed compounds were 
elucidated based on extensive spectroscopic data such as NMR, ECD, UV, IR, and 
HRESIMS, whereas known compounds were identified by comparison with published 
literature. Their anti-amyloidogenic activity was evaluated using a thioflavin T 
(ThT) fluorescence assay at 100 μg/ml. All compounds exhibited inhibitory 
activity, with 5 (78.44 % ± 1.63) displaying the highest % inhibition, followed 
by 4 (77.91 % ± 0.22) and 2 (70.40 % ± 1.93), comparable to the positive 
control, phenol red (82.73 ± 0.84). These results were supported by molecular 
docking, where compounds 2 (-7.5 kcal/mol), 4 (-7.1 kcal/mol), and 5 
(-7.2 kcal/mol) exhibited strong binding affinities to the dodecameric structure 
of the amyloid-β42 protein. Notably, compound 4 also docked in silico to the 
active site of acetylcholinesterase, a key enzyme targeted in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) therapy, thereby highlighting its potential for multitargeting in 
AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2025.114585
PMID: 40523579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could influence the work reported in this paper.


46. Ageing Res Rev. 2025 Aug;110:102800. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102800. Epub
2025  Jun 14.

Effectiveness of community-based health education on modifiable risk factors for 
Alzheimer's disease among older adults: a scoping review.

Hao Z(1), Du J(2), Ding X(3), Shi Y(3), Wang Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, School of nursing,Shandong University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Jinan, Shandong, China. Electronic address: 
2023110459@sdutcm.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Nursing, School of nursing,Shandong University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Jinan, Shandong, China. Electronic address: 
dujing@sdutcm.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Nursing, School of nursing,Shandong University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Jinan, Shandong, China.

A scoping review of community health education studies for dementia prevention 
was conducted to clarify the form, content, outcome indicators, evaluation 
tools, and effects of community health education interventions for dementia 
prevention and to inform future research in this area. This scoping review of 
community-based health education interventions for Alzheimer's disease 
prevention across eight databases identified five intervention 
approaches-culturally adapted interventions, health knowledge lectures, mental 
health education, multidimensional comprehensive intervention, and telephone 
coaching. These interventions primarily aimed to enhance AD knowledge and 
lifestyle modifications while evaluating outcomes across nine domains including 
knowledge level, cognitive functioning, attitudinal beliefs, psychological 
status, health behaviors, health status, life quality, self-management, and 
other indicators. The findings demonstrated significant improvements in dementia 
knowledge, increased adoption of protective behaviors, and particularly strong 
effects in collectivist cultural settings. Most notably, multimodal 
interventions showed synergistic benefits for both cognitive performance and 
community health aging outcomes. While current evidence supports the feasibility 
and effectiveness of community-based health interventions across age groups, 
large-scale randomized controlled trials incorporating geroscience principles 
are needed to establish causal efficacy in Alzheimer's prevention and optimize 
evidence-based intervention frameworks for diverse populations.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102800
PMID: 40523528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


47. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Aug 29;352:119976. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119976.
Epub  2025 Jun 14.

Standardization of Kushmanda Ghrita and its neuroprotective effect in 
trimethyltin-induced dementia in Wistar rats: Insights into cognitive function 
and oxidative stress modulation.

Dhande SR(1), Gupta A(2), Bhosale S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Bharati Vidyapeeth's College of Pharmacy, Navi 
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400614, India. Electronic address: swati.dhande@bvcop.in.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Bharati Vidyapeeth's College of Pharmacy, Navi 
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400614, India.

An ethnopharmacological review reveals that Kushmanda ghrita is a polyherbal 
formulation made from Glycyrrhiza glabra L. (Yashtimadhu) and Benincasa hispida 
(Thunb.) Cogn. (Kushmanda) in ghrita (cow's ghee) and serves as a carrier for 
its active compounds. Yashtimadhu and Kushmanda have been reported to exhibit 
memory-enhancing and antioxidant activity.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aimed to standardize Kushmanda ghrita and evaluate 
its neuroprotective activity against trimethyltin-induced dementia in albino 
Wistar rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Kushmanda ghrita was standardized for various parameters 
according to the AYUSH protocol. The HPTLC method was developed and validated to 
standardize Kushmanda ghrita for the markers rutin, glycyrrhizin, gallic acid, 
and quercetin. Well-established parameters, such as locomotor activity, 
behavioral parameters (Morris water maze, elevated plus maze, social recognition 
test, and novel object recognition test), biochemical parameters (malonaldehyde, 
glutathione, and catalase), and histopathological studies were performed to 
evaluate the neuroprotective effects of trimethyltin-induced dementia in rats.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: In addition to its organoleptic properties, Kushmanda 
ghrita was standardized for its specific gravity, viscosity, refractive index, 
loss on drying, pH, rancidity, iodine value, saponification value, acid value, 
peroxide value, heavy metal test (As, Cd, Hg, and Pb), microbial contamination 
test, and specific pathogen tests. A novel HPTLC method was developed to 
simultaneously detect and quantify selected markers (ICH Q2 R2 guidelines). 
Kushmanda ghrita treated groups significantly improved cognition and memory 
trimethyltin-induced dementia in rats. It also reduces malondialdehyde, 
glutathione, and catalase levels, thereby reducing oxidative stress in the 
brain. In addition, a brain histopathology study revealed less damage to 
neuronal structures in Kushmanda ghrita-treated animals than in diseased 
animals.
CONCLUSION: Kushmanda ghrita was standardized, and an accurate, precise, robust, 
and specific HPTLC analytical method was established. Based on the 
pharmacological activity data, the study concludes that Kushmanda ghrita 
effectively reduces oxidative stress and prevents damage to hippocampal neurons, 
probably due to learning and memory enhancement activity.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119976
PMID: 40523451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


48. JMIR Res Protoc. 2025 Jun 16;14:e68954. doi: 10.2196/68954.

Effects of Selective Head-and-Neck Cooling on Brain Injury-Related Biomarker 
Levels and Symptom Rating Following a Boxing Bout: Protocol for an Exploratory 
Randomized Trial.

Al-Husseini A(1), Tegner Y(2), Blennow K(3)(4), Zetterberg H(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8), 
Marklund N(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Neurosurgery, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Health, Education and Technology, Division of Health and 
Rehabilitation, Luleå University of Technology, Luleå, Sweden.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, London, United Kingdom.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(7)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China (Hong 
Kong).
(8)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
United States.
(9)Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Neurosurgery, Lund University, Skåne 
University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Head impacts are common in contact sports such as boxing and occur 
at times of elevated core body and brain temperatures induced by the exercise. 
Following impact, elevated brain temperature may lead to the development of 
exacerbated brain injury that can be monitored by blood biomarkers. Blood-brain 
biomarkers S100B and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) reflect glial 
injury; neurofilament light (NFL), axonal injury; and Neuron-Specific Enolase 
(NSE) and Tubulin-associated unit (tau), neuronal injury. Time to peak levels 
post injury for these biomarkers varies. Levels of S100B l peak early post 
injury, while NSE, GFAP, and tau are regarded as subacute markers, and NFL shows 
prolonged increases. We attempt to cover a large spectrum of first week 
postfight alterations in blood-brain biomarkers and their response to head-neck 
cooling.
OBJECTIVE: We hypothesized that acute head-and-neck cooling, recently shown to 
shorten return-to-play in concussed ice hockey players, applied acutely 
following a boxing bout, is associated with an attenuated concentration of blood 
biomarkers and improved symptom rating.
METHODS: The trial is academically driven and funded by external and hospital 
research funds. Young, healthy elite boxers aged ≥18 years are recruited. 
Before, and immediately after a competitive boxing bout consisting of 2 or 3 
rounds of 2 minutes each, blood samples are drawn. Boxers are randomized to 
intervention or control management by 1:1 allocation before baseline testing. 
After the initial postfight blood sample is drawn and symptom rating using the 
Sports Concussion Assessment Tool-5 (SCAT-5) has been collected, the boxers 
receive either acute selective head-and-neck cooling for 45 minutes or routine 
postfight management. The number of head impacts is counted in all boxers on 
match video recordings. In both groups, blood samples are drawn 45 minutes after 
the initial postbout blood sample, as well as 3 and 6 days post fight. At all 
blood sampling time points, the number of symptoms (NOS) and symptom severity 
score (SSS) are assessed using the symptom rating part of the SCAT-5. The 
primary endpoint is the difference in biomarker levels (GFAP, NFL, tau, UCH-L1, 
neuronal-specific enolase) immediately post fight and preintervention, to those 
obtained at 6 days post fight. The postfight SCAT-5 NOS and SSS are secondary 
endpoints.
RESULTS: Recruitment started in November 2021 and is ongoing. So far, 41 boxers 
have been included: 20 controls and 21 cooled. Data collection started in 
October 2024 following the completion of blood sample analysis. We expect to 
recruit more boxers before the middle of 2025, but challenges with recruitment 
may limit this.
CONCLUSIONS: There is no treatment available for boxing-induced brain injury. 
Biomarkers are surrogate yet objective markers of brain injury, and the 
head-and-neck cooling treatment may attenuate the concentration of brain 
injury-related biomarkers as well as reduce symptoms induced by head impacts 
attained during a boxing fight.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT06386484; 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06386484.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/68954.

©Ali Al-Husseini, Yelverton Tegner, Kaj Blennow, Henrik Zetterberg, Niklas 
Marklund. Originally published in JMIR Research Protocols 
(https://www.researchprotocols.org), 16.06.2025.

DOI: 10.2196/68954
PMCID: PMC12209727
PMID: 40523276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: YT is a scientific 
advisor for PolarCool Inc. Lund, Sweden. NM previously was a scientific advisor 
for PolarCool Inc. Lund, Sweden. Polar Cool provides the cooling helmet, 
although has not influenced the design of the study protocol. HZ has served at 
scientific advisory boards and as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work). KB has served as a consultant, on 
advisory boards, or data monitoring committees for Abcam, Axon, Biogen, and 
JOMDD/Shimadzu. Julius Clinical, Lilly, MagQu, Novartis, Prothena, Roche 
Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program. IR has served on advisory boards and given talks sponsored by Biogen, 
Bayer, Merck, Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, TEVA, Sanofi, and UCB.


49. Oral Dis. 2025 Jun 16. doi: 10.1111/odi.70001. Online ahead of print.

Effects of Experimental Periodontitis and Periodontal Treatment on 
Alzheimer-Like Pathology in Rats.

Yavuz S(1), Elibol B(2), Demir E(3), Kinsiz B(4), Toluk O(5), Gunpinar S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Faculty of Dentistry, Bezmialem Vakif 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, İstanbul Medeniyet 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Private Practice in Mondzorg Lijn 2, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology, Beykoz Instute of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Bezmialem Vakif University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Medicine, Bezmialem Vakif University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the effects of periodontitis (P) and 
non-surgical periodontal therapy (NSPT) on behavior, neurodegeneration, and 
neuroinflammation in rats with Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like pathology.
METHODS: AD-like pathology was induced in rats (n = 28) using STZ 
neurodegeneration model. Periodontitis was experimentally induced (n = 32), and 
half of which received NSPT with Chlorhexidine (CHX) gel. Behavioral assessment 
included the passive avoidance task (PA) and Morris water maze (MWM). Levels of 
NLRP3, phosphorylated tau (p-tau), and tau in the hippocampus, cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF), and serum were measured by ELISA, while BACE1, IL1β, iNOS, and 
NF-κβ proteins were assessed by Western blotting.
RESULTS: Rats in the AD and AD + P groups performed worse in behavioral tests 
compared to controls (p < 0.05), whereas the NSPT group showed similar 
performance to controls (p > 0.05). CSF p-tau levels were comparable between AD 
and AD + P groups, but the hippocampal p-tau/tau ratio was significantly higher 
in the AD + P group (p < 0.05). BACE1 levels were similar in P and AD groups. 
NLRP3 and iNOS levels did not show significant differences across groups. 
Notably, the NSPT group exhibited reduced NF-κβ levels (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Periodontitis may exacerbate AD-like molecular pathology, 
particularly by promoting tau hyperphosphorylation, while NSPT appears to 
mitigate disease progression and improve behavioral outcomes.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/odi.70001
PMID: 40523145


50. Organogenesis. 2025 Dec;21(1):2519641. doi: 10.1080/15476278.2025.2519641.
Epub  2025 Jun 16.

Pnky Modulates Neural Stem Cell Proliferation and Differentiation Through 
Activation of Wnt/β-Catenin Signaling Pathway.

Wu H(1), Huang J(1), Li X(1), Song Y(1), Chen X(1), Guo Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency, The Eighth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Shenzhen, China.

Neural stem cell (NSC) possess the essential properties of pluripotency and 
self-renewal, making them promising candidates for the treatment of neurological 
disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and spinal 
cord injuries. While previous studies have identified the long non-coding RNAs 
(lncRNAs) Pnky as a regulator of NSC differentiation into neurons via RNA 
splicing, its role in NSC differentiation and proliferation through the 
Wnt/β-catenin pathway remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the 
mechanism by which Pnky influences the Wnt/β-catenin pathway to promote NSC 
differentiation into neurons. Using cck8 assays, western blot analysis, and 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), we found that Pnky knockdown 
significantly enhanced NSC proliferation and promoted their differentiation into 
neurons. Additionally, Pnky knockdown resulted in the downregulation of the 
neural stem cell marker Nestin and upregulation of the neuronal marker 
β3-Tubulin, through activation of the β-catenin signaling pathway. Conversely, 
inhibiting the β-catenin pathway hindered both NSC differentiation and 
proliferation. These findings suggest that targeting the Pnky-mediated 
Wnt/β-catenin pathway may offer novel strategies for the treatment, diagnosis, 
and drug development of central nervous system diseases.

DOI: 10.1080/15476278.2025.2519641
PMCID: PMC12184132
PMID: 40523053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


51. PLoS One. 2025 Jun 16;20(6):e0326219. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0326219. 
eCollection 2025.

Novel fungal metabolites as dual cholinesterase inhibitors: A computational 
approach for Alzheimer's disease therapy.

Masum MHU(1), Lokman SM(2), Parvin R(3), Rahman MS(4), Chowdhury EH(5), 
Chamonara K(6), Chowdhury S(7), Mahdeen AA(4), Khatun MM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genomics and Bioinformatics, Faculty of Biotechnology and 
Genetic Engineering, Chattogram Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, 
Khulshi, Bangladesh.
(2)Asian University for Women (AUW), Chattogram, Bangladesh.
(3)Department of Pathology and Parasitology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Chattogram Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Khulshi, Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Noakhali Science and Technology University, 
Noakhali, Bangladesh.
(5)Lovely Professional University, Phagwāra, Punjab, India.
(6)Department of Environmental Biotechnology, Faculty of Biotechnology and 
Genetic Engineering, Chattogram Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, 
Khulshi, Bangladesh.
(7)Department of Industrial Biotechnology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Genetic 
Engineering, Chattogram Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Khulshi, 
Bangladesh.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, is a major 
global health concern, affecting millions worldwide, with its prevalence 
expected to triple by 2050. Despite the widespread use of traditional drugs like 
cholinesterase inhibitors and NMDA receptor antagonists, their limited 
effectiveness requires innovative therapeutic approaches. This work used 
Computer-Aided Drug Design (CADD) to renovate AD therapies aimed at both 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) using fungal 
secondary metabolites. Subsequent pharmacokinetic profiles indicated that all 
metabolites had significant gastrointestinal absorption, blood-brain barrier 
permeability, and adherence to Lipinski's Rule of Five, suggesting favourable 
drug-like properties. Furthermore, these metabolites exhibited little toxicity, 
except for Lovastatin, which indicated possible carcinogenicity. Molecular 
docking revealed three main candidates-Fumitremorgin C, Hericenone J, and 
Lovastatin-with notable binding affinities for AChE and BuChE. Consequently, the 
Fumitremorgin C showed the highest affinity for AChE (-10.0 kcal/mol), but 
Hericenone J showed enhanced inhibition of BuChE (-9.2 kcal/mol), suggesting its 
potential use in advanced stages of AD. Molecular dynamics simulations spanning 
100 ns validated the stability of enzyme-ligand complexes, with Hericenone J 
exhibiting the greatest stability, low RMSD, and strong hydrogen bond 
interactions. The RMSF analysis further demonstrated that Hericenone J preserved 
structural integrity, whereas ROG and SASA values validated its compactness and 
stability. As determined by binding energy calculations, Hericenone J had the 
most inhibitory potential, followed by Lovastatin. However, Hericenone J's 
constant adoption of low-energy conformations, as shown by the principal 
component and Gibbs free energy analyses, suggested robust and stable 
interactions with both cholinesterases. With its superior pharmacokinetic 
profiles, significant binding affinity, and high stability, Hericenone J is the 
most promising dual cholinesterase inhibitor. These results support the notion 
that Hericenone J might be an effective treatment for AD if subjected to more 
preclinical trials.

Copyright: © 2025 Masum et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0326219
PMCID: PMC12169564
PMID: 40522949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


52. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2025 Jul 2;17(26):37539-37547. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.5c05536. Epub 2025 Jun 16.

BaTiO(3) Nanorod-Mediated Sono-Piezocatalytic Disintegration of Amyloid Fibrils.

Das S(1), Dolai J(1), Roy D(1), Maity A(1), Jana NR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science, Indian Association for the Cultivation of 
Science, 2A & 2B Raja S. C. Mullick Road, Kolkata 700032, India.

The aggregation of amyloid proteins is responsible for a range of 
neurodegenerative diseases, and disintegrating these fibrils in the brain is a 
critical aspect for therapy. Here, we show that an ultrasound-based 
sono-piezocatalytic approach can be adapted for the wireless disintegration of 
amyloid protein fibrils in remote areas. Piezoelectric barium titanate nanorods 
are designed for interaction with amyloid fibrils, and ultrasound is used for 
the sono-piezocatalytic generation of reactive oxygen species that disintegrate 
fibrils into smaller fragments via oxidative degradation. We found that 
superoxide radicals are primarily involved in the oxidative degradation of 
fibrils and convert β-sheet structures into random coil structures that are 
nontoxic in nature. This work shows the potential of piezoelectric nanomaterials 
for ultrasound-based therapy of neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.5c05536
PMID: 40522769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Neural Regen Res. 2026 Mar 1;21(3):972-988. doi: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01054. 
Epub 2025 May 30.

Potential common pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases.

Fan T(1)(2), Peng J(1)(2), Liang H(3), Chen W(1), Wang J(1), Xu R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Jiangxi Provincial People's Hospital; The Clinical 
College of Nanchang Medical College; The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
Medical College; Xiangya Hospital of Center South University, Jiangxi Hospital; 
National Regional Center for Neurological Disease, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, 
China.
(2)Medical College of Nanchang University, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China.

With the gradual advancement of research methods and technologies, various 
biological processes have been identified as playing roles in the pathogenesis 
of neurodegenerative diseases. However, current descriptions of these biological 
processes do not fully explain the onset, progression, and development of these 
conditions. Therefore, exploration of the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative 
diseases remains a valuable area of research. This review summarizes the 
potential common pathogeneses of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease, frontotemporal lobar 
dementia, and Lewy body disease. Research findings have indicated that several 
common biological processes, including aging, genetic factors, progressive 
neuronal dysfunction, neuronal death and apoptosis, protein misfolding and 
aggregation, neuroinflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, axonal transport 
defects, and gut microbiota dysbiosis, are involved in the pathogenesis of these 
six neurodegenerative diseases. Based on current information derived from 
diverse areas of research, these biological processes may form complex 
pathogenic networks that lead to distinctive types of neuronal death in 
neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, promoting the regeneration of damaged 
neurons may be achievable through the repair of affected neural cells if the 
underlying pathogenesis can be prevented or reversed. Hence, these potential 
common biological processes may represent only very small, limited elements 
within numerous intricate pathogenic networks associated with neurodegenerative 
diseases. In clinical treatment, interfering with any single biological process 
has proven insufficient to completely halt the progression of neurodegenerative 
diseases. Therefore, future research on the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative 
diseases should focus on uncovering the complex pathogenic networks, rather than 
isolating individual biological processes. Based on this, therapies that aim to 
block or reverse various targets involved in the potential pathogenic mechanisms 
of neurodegenerative diseases may be promising directions, as current treatment 
methods that focus on halting a single pathogenic factor have not achieved 
satisfactory efficacy.

Copyright © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01054
PMCID: PMC12296512
PMID: 40522761

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


54. JAMA. 2025 Jul 15;334(3):229-242. doi: 10.1001/jama.2025.7817.

Frequency and Clinical Outcomes Associated With Tau Positron Emission Tomography 
Positivity.

Moscoso A(1)(2)(3), Heeman F(1)(2), Raghavan S(4), Costoya-Sánchez A(3)(5)(6), 
van Essen M(7), Mainta I(8), Camacho V(9), Rodríguez-Fonseca O(10), 
Silva-Rodríguez J(6)(11), Perissinotti A(12)(13), Gu Y(14), Yun J(15), Peretti 
D(16), Ribaldi F(17)(18), Coomans EM(19)(20)(21), Brum WS(1)(22), Grothe 
MJ(1)(2)(6)(11), Aguiar P(3)(23), Bischof GN(24)(25), Drzezga A(24)(25)(26), Seo 
SW(14)(15)(27)(28), Villeneuve S(29)(30)(31), Malpetti M(32)(33), O'Brien 
JT(34), Rowe JB(32)(35), van de Giessen EM(19)(20), Ossenkoppele R(20)(21)(36), 
Jagust WJ(37), Smith R(36)(38), Hansson O(36)(38), Frisoni GB(17)(18), Garibotto 
V(8)(16)(39), Soleimani-Meigooni DN(40)(41), Carrillo M(42), Dickerson BC(43), 
La Joie R(40), Rabinovici GD(40)(44), Apostolova LG(45)(46)(47), LaMontagne 
PJ(48)(49), Pontecorvo MJ(50), Johnson KA(51)(52), Sperling RA(43)(52), Weiner 
MW(53)(44)(54)(55)(56), Petersen RC(57), Jack CR Jr(4), Vemuri P(4), Schöll 
M(1)(2)(58)(59); PREVENT-AD Research Group, the Harvard Aging Brain Study, the 
LEADS Consortium, and the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Collaborators: Tam A, Labonte A, Pichet Binette A, Faubert AM Jr, Mathieu A, 
Madjar C, Carrier CE, Dansereau C, Kazazian C, Lepage C, Picard C, Maillet D, 
Michaud D, Couture D, Dea D, Cuello C, Barkun A, Evans A, Courcot B, Tardif C, 
Debacker C, Fontaine D, Knopman D, Multhaup G, Near J, Leoutsakos JM, Maltais 
JR, Brandt J, Pruessner J, Morris J, Breitner J, Poirier J, Cheewakriengkrai L, 
Collins L, Chakravarty M, Sager M, Dauar-Tedeschi M, Eisenberg M, Rajah N, Aisen 
P, Toussaint PJ, Rosa-Neto P, Bellec P, Kostopoulos P, Etienne P, Tariot P, 
Orban P, Hoge R, Thomas R, Gauthier S, Craft S, Montine T, Nair V, Bohbot V, 
Venugopalan V, Fonov V, Ituria-Medina Y, Khachaturian Z, Teigner E, Anthal E, Yu 
E, Ferdinand F, Pogossova G, Mayrand G, Duclair G, Gagne G, Newbold-Fox H, 
Leppert I, Vallee I, Vogel J, Tremblay-Mercier J, Frenette J, Frappier J, Kat J, 
Miron J, Wan K, Mahar L, Carmo L, Theroux L, Dadar M, Dufour M, Lafaille-Magnan 
ME, Appleby M, Savard M, Tuwaig M, Petkova M, Rioux P, Meyer PO, El-Khoury R, 
Gordon R, Giles R, Das S, Wang S, Tabrizi S, Mathotaarachchi S, Dubuc S, Lee T, 
Beaudry T, Gervais V, Page V, Gonneaud J, Pascoal T, Desautels R, Benbouhoud F, 
Saint-Fort EF, Verfaillie S, Farzin S, Salaciak A, Tullo S, Vachon-Presseau E, 
Daoust LA, Kobe T, Spreng N, McSweeney M, Nilsson N, Pishnamazi M, Bedetti C, 
Hudon L, Greco C, Chapleau M, St-Onge F, Boutin S, Geddes M, Ducharme S, Jean G, 
Sylvain E, Ã Lie MJ, Leblond-Baccichet G, Soucy JP, Ozlen H, Bailly J, 
Mohammediyan B, Chen Y, Remz J, Rentz D, Amariglio RE, Blacker D, Buckley R, 
Chhatwal JP, Dickerson B, Donovan N, Farrell M, Gagliardi G, Gatchel J, 
Guzman-Velez E, Jacobs H, Jutten R, Lois Gomez C, Marshall G, Oaoo K, 
Pardilla-Delgado E, Price J, Prokopiou P, Quiroz Y, Reynolds G, Schultz A, 
Schultz S, Sepulcre J, Skylar-Scott I, Vannini P, Vila-Castelar C, Yang HS, 
Trojanowki JQ, Toga AW, Beckett L, Green RC, Saykin AJ, Morris JC, Perrin RJ, 
Shaw LM, Potter W, Barnes L, Bernard M, Gonzalez H, Ho C, Hsiao JK, Jackson J, 
Masliah E, Masterman D, Okonkwo O, Ryan L, Silverberg N, Fleisher A, Fockler J, 
Conti C, Veitch D, Neuhaus J, Jin C, Nosheny R, Ashford M, Flenniken D, Kormos 
A, Montine T, Rafii M, Raman R, Jimenez G, Donohue M, Gessert D, Salazar J, 
Zimmerman C, Cabrera Y, Walter S, Miller G, Coker G, Clanton T, Hergesheimer L, 
Smith S, Adegoke O, Mahboubi P, Moore S, Pizzola J, Shaffer E, Harvey D, 
Forghanian-Arani A, Borowski B, Ward C, Schwarz C, Jones D, Gunter J, Kantarci 
K, Senjem M, Reid R, Fox NC, Malone I, Thompson P, Thomopoulos SI, Nir TM, 
Jahanshad N, DeCarli C, Knaack A, Fletcher E, Tosun-Turgut D, Chen SR, Choe M, 
Crawford K, Yuschkevich PA, Das S, Koeppe RA, Reiman EM, Chen K, Mathis C, 
Landau S, Cairns NJ, Householder E, Franklin E, Bernhardt H, Taylor-Reinwald L, 
Korecka M, Figurski M, Neu S, Nho K, Risacher SL, Shen L, Foroud TM, Nudelman K, 
Faber K, Wilmes K, Thal L, Dage J, Eloyan A, Foroud T, Ghetti B, Grinberg LT, 
Hammers D, Kirby K, Kramer J, Koeppe R, Kukull WA, Legarde J, Murray ME, Newell 
K, Polsinelli A, Taurone A, Thangarajah M, Toga A, Touroutoglou A, Atri A, Clark 
D, Day GS, Duara R, Graff-Radford NR, Grant I, Honig LS, Johnson ECB, Jones DT, 
Masdeu J, Mendez M, Musiek E, Onyike CU, Riddle M, Rogalski E, Salloway S, Sha 
S, Turner RS, Wingo TS, Wolk DA, Womack K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Nuclear Medicine Department and Molecular Imaging Group, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria de Santiago de Compostela, Travesía da Choupana s/n, 
Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(4)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(5)Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(6)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Sobre Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(7)Department of Clinical Physiology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(8)Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Geneva University 
Hospital, Geneva, Switzerland.
(9)Nuclear Medicine Department, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Nuclear Medicine Department, Lucus Augusti University Hospital, Lugo, Spain.
(11)Reina Sofía Alzheimer's Centre, CIEN Foundation, Instituto de Salud Carlos 
III, Madrid, Spain.
(12)Nuclear Medicine Department, Hospital Clínic Barcelona-Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi Sunyer, Barcelona, Spain.
(13)Biomedical Research Networking Centre of Bioengineering, Biomaterials, and 
Nanomedicine, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Barcelona, Spain.
(14)Samsung Alzheimer Research Center, Research Institute for Future Medicine, 
Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(15)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(16)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers, Faculty of 
Medicine, Geneva University Neurocenter, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(17)Geneva Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, Geneva 
University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(18)Laboratory of Neuroimaging of Aging, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(19)Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, VU University 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(20)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(21)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
University Medical Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(22)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Biochemistry, Universidade Federal 
do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(23)Molecular Imaging and Pharmacokinetic Modelling Group, Center for Research 
in Molecular Medicine and Chronic Diseases, University of Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain.
(24)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Cologne, Cologne, 
Germany.
(25)Research Center Juelich, Institute for Neuroscience and Medicine II, 
Molecular Organization of the Brain, Juelich, Germany.
(26)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Bonn-Cologne, Germany.
(27)Department of Clinical Research Design & Evaluation, Samsung Advanced 
Institute for Health Science & Technology, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, 
Korea.
(28)Department of Health Science and Technology, Samsung Advanced Institute for 
Health Science & Technology, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, Korea.
(29)McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(30)Douglas Mental Health University Institute-Research Center, Verdun, Quebec, 
Canada.
(31)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(32)Department of Clinical Neurosciences and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS 
Trust, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(33)UK Dementia Research Institute at University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United 
Kingdom.
(34)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United 
Kingdom.
(35)Medical Research Council Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(36)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(37)Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California Berkeley.
(38)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(39)Centre d'Imagerie Biomedicale, Geneva, Switzerland.
(40)Department of Neurology, Memory and Aging Center, Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco.
(41)Molecular Biophysics and Integrated Bioimaging, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, California.
(42)Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois.
(43)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston.
(44)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California San 
Francisco.
(45)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis.
(46)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Center for Neuroimaging, 
Indiana University School of Medicine Indianapolis, Indianapolis.
(47)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis.
(48)Departments of Radiology, Washington University in St Louis School of 
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri.
(49)Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Washington University in St 
Louis School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri.
(50)Avid, Eli Lilly and Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(51)Gordon Center for Medical Imaging, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston.
(52)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Boston, Massachusetts.
(53)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Center for Imaging of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, San Francisco, California.
(54)Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco.
(55)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of California 
San Francisco.
(56)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco.
(57)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(58)Dementia Research Centre, Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, United Kingdom.
(59)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.

Comment in
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2025 Sep 17. doi: 10.2214/AJR.25.33801.

IMPORTANCE: Tau positron emission tomography (PET) allows in vivo detection of 
neurofibrillary tangles, a core neuropathologic feature of Alzheimer disease 
(AD).
OBJECTIVE: To provide estimates of the frequency of tau PET positivity and its 
associated risk of clinical outcomes.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Longitudinal study using data pooled from 21 
cohorts, comprising a convenience sample of 6514 participants from 13 countries, 
collected between January 2013 and June 2024. Cognitively unimpaired individuals 
and patients with a clinical diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI), AD 
dementia, or other neurodegenerative disorders were included.
EXPOSURES: Tau PET with flortaucipir F 18, amyloid-β (Aβ) PET, and clinical 
examinations. Tau PET scans were visually rated as positive according to a US 
Food and Drug Administration- and European Medicines Agency-approved method, 
designed to indicate the presence of advanced neurofibrillary tangle pathology 
(Braak stages V-VI).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Frequency of tau PET positivity and absolute risk of 
clinical progression (eg, progression to MCI or dementia).
RESULTS: Among the 6514 participants (mean age, 69.5 years; 50.5% female), 
median follow-up time ranged from 1.5 to 4.0 years. Of 3487 cognitively 
unimpaired participants, 349 (9.8%) were tau PET positive; the estimated 
frequency of tau PET positivity was less than 1% in those aged younger than 50 
years, and increased from 3% (95% CI, 2%-4%) at 60 years to 19% (95% CI, 
16%-24%) at 90 years. Tau PET positivity frequency estimates increased across 
MCI and AD dementia clinical diagnoses (43% [95% CI, 41%-46%] and 79% [95% CI, 
77%-82%] at 75 years, respectively). Most tau PET-positive individuals (92%) 
were also Aβ PET positive. Cognitively unimpaired participants who were positive 
for both Aβ PET and tau PET had a higher absolute risk of progression to MCI or 
dementia over the following 5 years (57% [95% CI, 45%-71%]) compared with both 
Aβ PET-positive/tau PET-negative (17% [95% CI, 13%-22%]) and Aβ PET-negative/tau 
PET-negative (6% [95% CI, 5%-8%]) individuals. Among participants with MCI at 
the time of the tau PET scan, an Aβ PET-positive/tau PET-positive profile was 
associated with a 5-year absolute risk of progression to dementia of 70% (95% 
CI, 59%-81%).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In a large convenience sample, a positive tau PET 
scan occurred at a nonnegligible rate among cognitively unimpaired individuals, 
and the combination of Aβ PET positivity and tau PET positivity was associated 
with a high risk of clinical progression in both preclinical and symptomatic 
stages of AD. These findings underscore the potential of tau PET as a biomarker 
for staging AD pathology.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2025.7817
PMID: 40522652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2025 Jun 16. doi: 10.1007/s00702-025-02969-1.
Online  ahead of print.

Insights into insulin signalling and oxidative stress in the Tg2576 mouse model 
of familial Alzheimer's disease: effects of chronic oral galactose 
administration.

Babić Perhoč A(1), Kovač D(2), Homolak J(3)(4), Virag D(3), Knezović A(3), 
Šalković-Petrišić M(3), Osmanović Barilar J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Croatian Institute of Brain Research, 
University of Zagreb School of Medicine, Zagreb, Croatia. ana.babic@mef.hr.
(2)Institute of Emergency Medicine of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Dubrovnik, 
Croatia.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Croatian Institute of Brain Research, 
University of Zagreb School of Medicine, Zagreb, Croatia.
(4)M3 Research Center, Excellence Cluster 'Controlling Microbes to Fight 
Infections' (CMFI), Interfaculty Institute of Microbiology & Infection Medicine 
Tübingen (IMIT), Eberhard Karls University & University Hospital Tübingen, 
Tübingen, Germany.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by cognitive decline, metabolic dysregulation, brain insulin 
resistance, and oxidative stress. Familial AD (fAD) models, like the Tg2576 
mice, offer insights into early-onset AD; however, their relevance to sporadic 
AD remains limited. This study investigated brain insulin signalling and 
oxidative stress in Tg2576 mice at presymptomatic (7-month) and mild AD 
(12-month) stages, focusing on the hippocampus and hypothalamus. Additionally, 
the effects of chronic oral galactose-a proposed insulin-independent energy 
source-were examined. Oxidative stress parameters remained unchanged across 
disease progression, aging, and galactose treatment, suggesting that redox 
processes are not significantly impaired at early stages. Insulin signalling 
exhibited region- and age-dependent variations, with notable changes in the 
hypothalamus of 7-month-old transgenic mice. Galactose treatment reduced AMPK 
activation in both brain regions, potentially reflecting improved energy supply 
via its conversion to glucose through the Leloir pathway. By 12 months of age, 
hippocampal alterations became more pronounced, including reduced p70S6K 
activity in transgenic mice, consistent with impaired mTOR signalling in AD. 
Galactose modulated p70S6K activity differently based on age and genotype: it 
increased activity in younger wild-type mice, stimulating anabolic processes, 
while decreasing activity in older wild-type animals. GLUT4 expression also 
showed nuanced responses to aging, genotype, and galactose treatment. These 
results highlight the heterogeneity of AD pathophysiology and the limitations of 
using a single model to represent the disease. The study underscores the need 
for broad preclinical research to address biological variability and refine 
therapeutic approaches for both familial and sporadic AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-025-02969-1
PMID: 40522496

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: None. Ethics 
approval: All animal procedures were performed by certified personnel and 
executed in compliance with present institutional, national and international 
guidelines on management of experimental animals for scientific purposes. The 
conducted experiments were approved by the national regulatory body, Croatian 
Ministry of Agriculture, and the UZSM Ethical Committee (class: 
UP/I-322-02/15-01/156, editorial number: 525-10/0255-15-5).


56. Cell Biochem Biophys. 2025 Jun 16. doi: 10.1007/s12013-025-01799-y. Online
ahead  of print.

A Cross-sectional In Vitro Study on the Synergistic Neuroprotective Effects of 
Phytochemicals Ferulic Acid and Ginkgolide B against Amyloid Beta-induced 
Oxidative Stress and Modulation of Multifunctional Enzyme APE1/Ref-1 in Human 
Neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y Cells.

Verma H(1), Yadav A(1), Gangwar P(1), Kaur S(2), Kumar P(3), Dhiman M(2), Mantha 
AK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, School of Basic Sciences, Central University of 
Punjab, Bathinda, Punjab, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, School of Basic Sciences, Central University of 
Punjab, Bathinda, Punjab, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, School of Health Sciences, Central University of 
Punjab, Bathinda, Punjab, India.
(4)Department of Zoology, School of Basic Sciences, Central University of 
Punjab, Bathinda, Punjab, India. anil.mantha@cup.edu.in.

The Apurinic/Apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APE1/Ref-1) is essential for 
controlling the oxidative DNA base damage via the Base Excision Repair (BER) 
pathway. While APE1's N-terminal region is important in redox function (named 
redox effector factor 1, Ref-1) and protein-protein interactions, its C-terminal 
region is involved in DNA repair activities. In this work, we employed the 
Aβ25-35 peptide to produce oxidative stress in order to assess the protective 
effects of two phytochemicals, ferulic acid (FA) and Ginkgolide B (GB), 
individually and in combination, with a focus on APE1 in different subcellular 
compartments of human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Exposure to Aβ25-35 reduced 
the APE1 levels in the mitochondrial, nuclear, whole-cell, and exosomal 
extracts, resulting in oxidative DNA base damage, which resulted in the 
accumulation of DNA base lesions, further compromising neuronal homeostasis. 
Moreover, Aβ25-35 suppressed the activation of important transcription factors, 
including Nrf-2 and CREB, necessary for neuroprotection, synaptic plasticity, 
and antioxidant defense, by inhibiting APE1's redox activity. Neurodegenerative 
processes and elevated oxidative stress were exacerbated by the absence of these 
defensive mechanisms. On the other hand, pre-treatment with the phytochemicals 
FA and GB, both individually and synergistically, successfully restored APE1 
expression and functionality in different subcellular compartments. In addition 
to improving BER efficiency by lowering oxidative DNA damage, this also restored 
APE1's redox activity, which made it easier for Nrf-2 and CREB to activate. By 
modifying APE1-dependent repair and redox pathways, these factors reduced 
Aβ-induced oxidative stress and neuronal damage, indicating their potential as 
therapeutic agents in Alzheimer's disease (AD).

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12013-025-01799-y
PMID: 40522419

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with Ethical Standards. Conflict of 
Interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


57. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 Jun 16;40(6):224. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01653-3.

Bilirubin: a game-changer in alzheimer's therapy? Unveiling its neuroprotective 
and disease-modifying potential.

Sidhu RK(1), Mittal Y(1), Aran KR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, 142001, 
Punjab, India.
(2)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, 142001, Punjab, India. khadgaraj@isfcp.org.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurological disease characterised by amyloid-beta 
(Aβ) plaques, neurofibrillary tangles (NFTS), oxidative stress, and 
neuroinflammation resulting in cognitive decline. Bilirubin is considered to be 
a by-product of heme metabolism and has emerged as a powerful endogenous 
antioxidant with significant neuroprotective activities. This article focuses on 
the multidirectional role of bilirubin in AD, underlining its capability to 
alleviate oxidative stress, reduce neuroinflammation, inhibit Aβ fibrillation 
and tau hyperphosphorylation, and maintain synaptic and mitochondrial function. 
The antioxidant activity of bilirubin, which involves the bilirubin-biliverdin 
redox cycle, scavenges ROS and promotes cellular defence mechanisms. In 
addition, bilirubin modulates inflammatory signalling pathways like NF-κB and 
TLR4 to downregulate pro-inflammatory cytokine release. It also induces Aβ 
clearance and prevents tau pathology by controlling kinase and phosphatase 
function, thus ensuring neuronal integrity. Despite its therapeutic promise, the 
role of bilirubin in AD is multifaceted, with reports from studies being 
conflicting regarding its levels in patients. While physiological levels have 
neuroprotective properties, higher levels are neurotoxic, and this emphasizes 
the requirement for accurate therapeutic dosing. The challenges of blood-brain 
barrier (BBB) permeability, heterogeneity in bilirubin metabolism, and the 
absence of large-scale clinical trials need to be overcome to apply preclinical 
observations to clinical applications. Future studies must aim at maximising 
bilirubin-based treatments, such as bilirubin analogues, HO-1 inducers, and 
nanocarrier systems, in addition to non-pharmacological methods such as dietary 
and lifestyle changes. Standardisation of bilirubin assessment and determining 
its potential as a diagnostic biomarker are also critical. Overall, bilirubin is 
a potential therapeutic target for AD, but additional research is necessary to 
optimize its potential while minimising risks.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01653-3
PMID: 40522412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests. Conflict of interest: No 
conflicts of interest to declare.


58. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2025 Oct;242(10):2161-2179. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-025-06839-2. Epub 2025 Jun 16.

The orexin/hypocretin system in dementia-related neurological disorders: a 
double-edged sword in cognitive impairment.

Zhuang C(1), Cao Y(1), Lu J(1), Zhou Y(1), Liu Y(1)(2), Li Y(3)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Medical College, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 225009, PR China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Syndrome Differentiation and Treatment of Gastric, 
Cancer of the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Yangzhou, 
225009, PR China.
(3)Medical College, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 225009, PR China. 
liyanzg@yzu.edu.cn.
(4)The Key Laboratory of Syndrome Differentiation and Treatment of Gastric, 
Cancer of the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Yangzhou, 
225009, PR China. liyanzg@yzu.edu.cn.
(5)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine 
for Prevention and Treatment of Senile Diseases, Medical College of Yangzhou 
University, Yangzhou, 225009, PR China. liyanzg@yzu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Yangzhou 
University, Yangzhou, 225012, PR China. liyanzg@yzu.edu.cn.

RATIONALE: The orexin (OX) system plays a crucial role in regulating cognitive 
functions. Dysregulation of this system has been implicated in several 
dementia-related neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD) and dementia with Lewy 
bodies (DLB).
OBJECTIVES: This review aims to synthesize current research on the involvement 
of the OX system in dementia-related neurological diseases, focusing on its 
effects on cognitive function and its potential as a therapeutic target.
RESULTS: The OX system, encompassing hypothalamic neuropeptides and receptors 
(OX1R and OX2R), exhibits dysregulation in neurodegenerative diseases associated 
with dementia. Changes in OX concentrations strongly correlate with cognitive 
decline, and this correlation varies with disease progression. OX regulates 
essential molecular mechanisms, including neuronal survival, synaptic 
plasticity, neural network integrity, and circadian rhythm stability-processes 
impaired as cognitive deficits intensify. These findings emphasize OX's critical 
and context-dependent role in cellular resilience and cognitive function.
CONCLUSIONS: OX system emerges as a multifaceted therapeutic target for 
dementia-related cognitive impairment. Its effects vary across disease stages, 
initially offering neuroprotection but later contributing to pathology. 
Moreover, OX's involvement in circadian rhythm regulation complicates its 
clinical utility, as disruptions exacerbate cognitive deficits. These opposing 
functions highlight the need for tailored, stage-specific interventions to 
maximize cognitive benefits while minimizing adverse signaling.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-025-06839-2
PMID: 40522408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.


59. Drug Dev Res. 2025 Jun;86(4):e70112. doi: 10.1002/ddr.70112.

Exploring 2-Thioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyrimidines as Dual Acting GSK-3β/Aβ 
Aggregation Inhibitors: Implications for Alzheimer's Disease Treatment.

Sukanya S(1), Bellver-Sanchis A(2), Choudhary BS(1), Kumar S(1), Pérez B(3), 
Rodríguez ALM(4), Brea J(4)(5), Escolano C(6), Griñán-Ferré C(2)(7), Malik R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Central University of Rajasthan, Bandarsindari, 
Ajmer, Rajasthan, India.
(2)Pharmacology Section, Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology, and Therapeutic 
Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy and Food Sciences, Institute of Neuroscience, 
University of Barcelona (NeuroUB), Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Pharmacology Therapeutics and Toxicology, Institute of 
Neuroscience, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Innopharma Screening Platform, Biofarma Research Group. Centro de 
Investigación en Medicina Molecular y Enfermedades Crónicas (CIMUS), Department 
of Pharmacology, Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Technology, University of Santiago 
de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(5)Health Research, Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), University 
Hospital of Santiago de Compostela (SERGAS), Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(6)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry (Associated Unit to CSIC), Department of 
Pharmacology, Toxicology and Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy and Food 
Sciences, Institute of Biomedicine (IBUB), University of Barcelona, Barcelona.
(7)Centro de Investigación en Red, Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), 
Institute of Health Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.

The etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is complex and multifactorial. There is 
a pressing need for therapies that can prevent or slow AD progression. 
Consequently, drug development has shifted from single-target approaches to 
multi-faceted strategies that emphasize early intervention rather than 
late-stage treatment. One promising target is glycogen synthase kinase-3β 
(GSK-3β), an enzyme implicated in tau hyperphosphorylation and Aβ plaque 
formation. Based on our earlier work, we synthesized 25 
2-thioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyrimidine derivatives designed as GSK-3β inhibitors, 
tau phosphorylation inhibitors, and Aβ accumulation. Two compounds emerged as 
particularly effective: compound 63 (IC50 = 1.69 µM) and compound 66 
(IC50 = 0.90 µM), with compound 66 identified as an ATP-competitive inhibitor of 
GSK-3β. Further pharmacokinetic studies and in vitro drug metabolism assessments 
were conducted, followed by in vivo efficacy studies using Caenorhabditis 
elegans. Notably, these compounds reduced phosphorylated tau levels in the 
BR5706 strain and decreased Aβ aggregate deposition in the CL2006 strain. 
Molecular Dynamic (MD) simulations were also performed on both compounds. These 
findings provide valuable insights into GSK-3β drug development and highlight 
the potential of these inhibitors as therapeutic candidates for AD by targeting 
both tau and Aβ, the two pathological hallmarks of AD.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ddr.70112
PMID: 40522257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70241. doi: 10.1002/alz.70241.

Development and validation of a novel Simoa assay for NPTX2 in Alzheimer's 
disease and Down syndrome.

Sauer M(1), Gomes BF(1), Shahrouki P(1), Lantero-Rodriguez J(1), Montoliu-Gaya 
L(1), Camporesi E(1), Belbin O(2)(3), Alcolea D(2)(3), Kumar A(4), Sharma M(4), 
Singh S(4), Brinkmalm G(1), Gobom J(1), Carmona-Iragui M(2)(3)(5), Schöll 
M(1)(6)(7)(8), Janelidze S(9), Deep G(4), Blennow K(1)(10)(11)(12), Zetterberg 
H(1)(10)(13)(14)(15)(16), Brinkmalm A(1), Lleó A(2)(3), Fortea J(2)(3)(5), 
Hansson O(9)(17), Ashton NJ(1)(18)(19), Nilsson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(2)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau - Biomedical 
Research Institute Sant Pau, Sant Antoni Maria Claret, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Fuencarral-El Pardo, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine-Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine, Wake 
Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(5)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana Síndrome de Down, Carrer del 
Comte Borrell, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(7)Dementia Research Centre, Institute of Neurology, University College London, 
Queen Square London, UK.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Cognition and Aging Psychiatry, Sahlgrenska 
University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden.
(9)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, 
Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.
(10)Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden.
(11)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(12)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(13)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(14)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, Unit 3a, London, UK.
(15)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hongkong, 
Science Park, China.
(16)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(17)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(18)Banner Alzheimer's Institute and University of Arizona, Phoenix, Tucson, 
Arizona, USA.
(19)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Synaptic dysfunction and loss are pathological hallmarks of 
neurodegenerative diseases. Neuronal pentraxin 2 (NPTX2), a presynaptic protein 
involved in synaptic plasticity, has been linked to cognitive decline in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative disorders.
METHODS: We developed and validated a novel single molecule array (Simoa) for 
NPTX2 in cerebrospinal fluid, which was evaluated in two independent cohorts.
RESULTS: CSF NPTX2 concentration was lower (fold change [FC] 0.82, p < 0.01) in 
AD patients and Down syndrome individuals (FC 0.56, p < 0.001), compared with 
cognitively unimpaired patients (CU). It was also associated with Mini-Mental 
State Examination (MMSE) score (β = 2.51, p < 0.001), tau-PET (β = -0.21, 
p < 0.01), and cortical thickness (β = 0.08, p < 0.001).
DISCUSSION: We describe the first assay for NPTX2 on the Simoa platform, where 
we continue to highlight the valuable addition of NPTX2 to routine diagnostics 
of suspected cognitive impairment in patients as it associates better with 
cognition than other, more established AD biomarkers.
HIGHLIGHTS: Novel method validated for measuring CSF NPTX2 on semi-automated 
Simoa platform. Method validated for use in CSF, where it shows a significant 
decrease in both AD and DS patients. Associated with cognition, neurofibrillary 
tangles, and cortical thickness in AD patients. Associations with cognition are 
shown to be stronger than those of pTau and NFL.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70241
PMCID: PMC12168238
PMID: 40522075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures 
sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). K.B. has served as a consultant and on advisory boards 
for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac 
Pte. Ltd., Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, Sanofi 
and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees for Julius 
Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials and 
participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, 
Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, 
outside the work presented in this paper. D.A. participated in advisory boards 
from Fujirebio‐Europe, Roche Diagnostics, Grifols S.A., and Lilly, and received 
speaker honoraria from Fujirebio‐Europe, Roche Diagnostics, Nutricia, Krka 
Farmacéutica S.L., Zambon S.A.U., Neuraxpharm and Esteve Pharmaceuticals S.A. 
D.A. declares a filed patent application (WO2019175379 A1 Markers of 
synaptopathy in neurodegenerative disease). G.D. is the founder of LiBiCo LLC, 
which has no influence or contribution to the work presented in this manuscript. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.61. Ann Neurol. 2025 Sep;98(3):533-546. doi: 10.1002/ana.27284. Epub 2025 Jun 16.

Clinical and Cognitive Profiles of Individuals with Alzheimer's Disease and 
Comorbid Seizures.

Reyes A(1)(2), Zawar I(3), Punia V(2), Sarkis RA(4), Kapur J(3)(5), Busch RM(2), 
Bondi MW(6), Salmon DP(7), Hermann BP(8), McDonald CR(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Medicine and Applied Sciences, University of 
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(2)Epilepsy Center, Neurological Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, 
USA.
(3)Epilepsy Division, Department of Neurology, University of Virginia School of 
Medicine, Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(4)Epilepsy Division, Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Brain Institute, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 
USA.
(7)Department of Neurosciences, Shiley-Marcos Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Health Sciences Learning Center, University of 
Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Seizures are a highly prevalent comorbidity in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), with a 2- to 6-fold increased risk, and are associated with accelerated 
cognitive decline. Despite growing research on seizure detection and treatment 
in AD, the cognitive profiles of individuals with both AD and seizures remain 
poorly characterized using comprehensive neuropsychological methods.
METHODS: Clinical and cognitive data from individuals age 65+ with AD were 
analyzed from the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center (NACC) dataset. 
Cognitive domains assessed included memory, language, attention, processing 
speed, and executive function. Raw scores were converted into z-scores using a 
control sample (n = 14,665). Group comparisons were conducted using independent 
t tests, χ2 tests, and Kruskal-Wallis tests, and logistic regression was used to 
examine factors associated with seizures.
RESULTS: Among 9,662 individuals with AD, 1.2% (n = 117) had active seizures 
(AD-S). The AD-S group was younger, had higher stroke and transient ischemic 
attack rates, earlier cognitive decline, longer symptom duration, cognitive 
fluctuations, abrupt cognitive changes, and worse cognitive and functional 
outcomes. Cognitive deficits in AD-S, particularly in executive function and 
processing speed, persisted after adjusting for dementia severity. Compared to 
vascular dementia, AD-S individuals exhibited greater impairments in fluency, 
naming, and processing speed.
INTERPRETATION: Comorbid AD and seizures are associated with distinct cognitive 
and clinical profiles, greater vascular disease burden, and more severe 
dementia. Findings emphasize the need for early seizure detection, comprehensive 
cognitive evaluations, and research on cerebrovascular contributions to inform 
targeted interventions. ANN NEUROL 2025;98:533-546.

© 2025 American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.27284
PMID: 40521778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. ACS Omega. 2025 May 28;10(22):23709-23738. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.5c00934. 
eCollection 2025 Jun 10.

Synthetic Retinoids for the Modulation of Genomic and Nongenomic Processes in 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Butler AM(1), Chisholm DR(1), Tomlinson CWE(1), Khatib T(2)(3), Clark J(2), Wan 
S(4), Coveney PV(4)(5)(6), Greig IR(2), McCaffery P(2), Pohl E(1)(7), Whiting 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Durham University, South Road, Durham DH1 3LE, U.K.
(2)Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill, 
Aberdeen, Scotland AB25 2ZD, U.K.
(3)Health Sciences Department, Faculty of Modern Sciences, Arab American 
University, P.O. Box 840009 Ramallah, Palestine.
(4)Centre for Computational Science, Department of Chemistry, University College 
London, 20 Gordon Street, London WC1H 0AJ, U.K.
(5)Advanced Research Computing Centre, University College London, London WC1H 
0AJ, U.K.
(6)Institute for Informatics, Faculty of Science, University of Amsterdam, 
1098XH Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Biosciences, Durham University, South Road, Durham DH1 3LE, 
U.K.

Retinoids, such as all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), are the active metabolite 
forms of endogenous Vitamin A and function as key signaling molecules involved 
in the regulation of a variety of cellular processes. Due to their highly 
diverse biological roles, retinoids have been implicated in a wide range of 
diseases such as neurological disorders and some cancers. However, their 
therapeutic potential is limited due to their chemical and metabolic instability 
and adverse side effects. Synthetic retinoid analogues with increased stability 
and specificity have therefore attracted significant attention. In this study, 
we developed a scalable synthetic platform to generate a library of novel 
synthetic retinoids. Twenty-three new compounds were synthesized, and their 
receptor binding was assessed by an in vitro fluorescence competition binding 
assay, complemented by molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) 
simulations. We show that while computational studies are extremely useful for 
predicting binding modes and hence can guide synthetic efforts, the binding 
assays demonstrated that these novel retinoids exhibit strong binding albeit 
with limited selectivity for the different retinoic acid receptors (RARs). 
Therefore, their biological activity was measured by assessing their genomic and 
nongenomic activities in neuroblastoma cells with the goal of correlating 
binding properties and pathway activation to neuro-regenerative potential 
measured by neurite outgrowth. Importantly, four of the novel retinoids are 
shown to bind tightly to RARs and exhibit dual action in the relevant cellular 
models, with an ability to induce both genomic and nongenomic responses as well 
as significant neurite outgrowth. The compound with the highest biological 
activity possesses significant potential to be used as therapeutics for treating 
a wide range of neurological disorders like Alzheimer's disease and motor neuron 
disease.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.5c00934
PMCID: PMC12163635
PMID: 40521508


63. Iran J Psychiatry. 2025 Apr;20(2):157-174. doi: 10.18502/ijps.v20i2.18199.

Psychometric Properties of a Neuropsychological Assessment Scale for Diagnosing 
Alzheimer's Disease in the Illiterate and Low-Educated Subjects in Iran.

Ahmadi A(1), Noroozian M(2), Kachooei M(1), Hooshyari Z(3), Golsokhan A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Humanities, University of Science and 
Culture, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Cognitive Neurology, Dementia and Neuropsychiatry Research Center (CNNRC), 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Faculty of Psychology and Education, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.

Objective: Because of changes in the population structure over time, dementia is 
one of the main concerns of the health systems worldwide. Screening for dementia 
in primary care settings, especially among high-risk populations, is essential. 
The aim of this study was to design, develop, and evaluate the reliability and 
validity of a diagnostic scale for Alzheimer's disease tailored to low-educated 
and illiterate populations. Method : This study, conducted at Roozbeh 
Psychiatric Hospital and Yaadmaan Institute for Brain Cognition and Memory 
Studies, utilizes a mixed-methods approach for collecting, analyzing, and 
interpreting the data. Once the questionnaire was confirmed to be clear, 
appropriate, and consistently presented, it was administered to a purposive 
sample of 250 patients selected based on the study's specific inclusion 
criteria. These patients underwent a comprehensive neuropsychological 
assessment, which included the Behavioral Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease 
Rating Scale (BEHAVE-AD), The Katz Activities of Daily Living Scale (Katz ADL) 
and The Functional Assessment Staging Tool (FAST). The scale construction 
process was conducted in four phases. Results: Confirmatory factor analysis 
showed that all questions significantly loaded on their respective factors, 
effectively measuring their intended constructs. The root mean square error of 
approximation (RMSEA) was less than 0.08, indicating a good model fit and 
supporting the scale's validity. The Adjusted Goodness of Fit Index (AGFI) and 
Goodness of Fit Index (GFI) were near 0.9, while the Comparative Fit Index 
(CFI), Normed Fit Index (NFI), Non-Normed Fit Index (NNFI), and Incremental Fit 
Index (IFI) exceeded 0.9. Correlational analysis with the FAST, Activities of 
Daily Living (ADL), and BEHAVE-AD scales confirmed significant relationships, 
validating the scale's convergent and divergent validity. The overall 
reliability, measured by Cronbach's alpha coefficient, was 0.96, indicating 
excellent internal consistency, with subdomain reliability coefficients ranging 
from 0.7 to 0.88. Conclusion: The diagnostic scale for Alzheimer's disease 
demonstrates adequate fit and construct validity for assessing cognitive 
impairments in low-educated and illiterate patients across the 12 domains of 
orientation, judgment, abstract thinking, similarity, verbal fluency, 
repetition, working memory, visual-spatial skills, calculation, executive 
function, prosopagnosia, and naming. This culturally and linguistically 
adaptable assessment addresses gaps in diagnostic tools for low-literacy 
populations, enabling accurate evaluations of dementia and facilitating early 
diagnosis and treatment. The findings enhance existing knowledge by providing a 
reliable tool for early Alzheimer's diagnosis among low-literacy groups. 
However, further research is needed to validate the scale across diverse ethnic 
backgrounds and geographical locations to ensure its relevance and sensitivity 
to various contexts.

Copyright © 2025 Tehran University of Medical Sciences. Published by Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences.

DOI: 10.18502/ijps.v20i2.18199
PMCID: PMC12159566
PMID: 40521286

Conflict of interest statement: None.


64. Front Public Health. 2025 May 30;13:1524898. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1524898.
 eCollection 2025.

Meditation for subjective cognitive decline, mild cognitive impairment and 
Alzheimer's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized 
controlled trials.

Shi J(#)(1), Tian H(#)(1), Wei J(2), Xu W(1), Luo Q(1), Peng J(1), Xia J(1), 
Huai W(1), Xiong Y(2), Chen Y(1).

Author information:
(1)CDUTCM-KEELE Joint Health and Medical Sciences Institute, School of 
Acupuncture and Tuina, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Chengdu University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(2)West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Meditation has gained increasing recognition as a simple, 
cost-effective, and non-invasive therapeutic approach for older adults with 
subjective cognitive decline (SCD), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). This meta-analysis aimed to systematically evaluate 
its effectiveness on this population.
METHODS: A comprehensive search across nine databases was performed from 
inception to April 1, 2024, to identify eligible randomized controlled trials 
(RCTs). The primary outcome was global cognitive performance measured by the 
Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), while the secondary outcomes included 
sleep quality estimated through the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), 
health status assessed using the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36), and 
depression evaluated with the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS). This 
meta-analysis utilized R 4.3.1 software and adhered to the Cochrane Handbook and 
PRISMA reporting guidelines.
RESULTS: A total of 25 RCTs published between 2013 and 2024 involving 2,095 
participants were included in this study. The pooled findings demonstrated that 
meditation significantly improved global cognitive performance (MD 2.22, 95% CI: 
0.83-3.62, p = 0.002), sleep quality (MD -1.40, 95% CI: -2.52 to -0.27, p 
= 0.015), and health status (MD 3.50, 95% CI, 0.45-6.56, p = 0.020). However, no 
significant effect was observed on depression compared to the control group (SMD 
-0.16, 95% CI: -0.63 to 0.31, p = 0.514).
CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis suggests that meditation is an effective adjunct 
therapy for improving global cognitive performance, sleep quality, and health 
status in older adults with SCD, MCI, and AD. However, given the heterogeneity 
and limited sample sizes, these findings should be interpreted with caution. 
More large-scale and high-quality RCTs are needed to further substantiate these 
effects.

Copyright © 2025 Shi, Tian, Wei, Xu, Luo, Peng, Xia, Huai, Xiong and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1524898
PMCID: PMC12162321
PMID: 40520277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


65. Front Pharmacol. 2025 May 30;16:1593989. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1593989. 
eCollection 2025.

Comparison of safety of lecanemab and aducanumab: a real-world 
disproportionality analysis using the FDA adverse event reporting system.

Kong L(1)(2)(3), Yang X(1)(2), Xu J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital of Bengbu Medical 
University, Bengbu, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Bengbu Medical University, Bengbu, China.
(3)Institute of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, The First Affifiliated 
Hospital of Bengbu Medical University, Bengbu, China.

OBJECTIVE: Studies on anti-Aβ drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) have garnered significant attention; however, their safety still requires 
further research and monitoring. Although recent studies have analyzed the 
adverse drug events (ADEs) of lecanemab and aducanumab separately, there is a 
lack of comparison between these two drugs, and no exploration of gender 
differences. This study aims to compare the adverse reaction signals of 
lecanemab and aducanumab, also exploring the differences between genders.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We analyzed ADEs reported by patients using 
lecanemab and aducanumab, using the FDA adverse event reporting system (FAERS). 
The data was classified using the preferred terms (PTs) and systemic organ 
categories (SOCs). Four positive signal detection algorithms were used, namely, 
the Ratio-to-Ratio (ROR), proportional reporting ratio (PRR), multi item gamma 
poisson shrinker (MGPS), and bayesian belief propagation neural network (BCPNN). 
Additionally, the time-to-onset of ADEs was also compared between the two drugs 
and between male and female patients.
RESULTS: A total of 1,409 ADE reports in which an anti-Aβ antibody drug was 
primarily suspected were included in the study, comprising 892 cases (63.31%) of 
lecanemab and 517 cases (36.69%) of aducanumab. For both lecanemab and 
aducanumab, only the SOC 'nervous system disorders' met the criteria for 
positive signal for all four algorithms. The number of positive PT signals 
related to lecanemab and aducanumab was 40 and 33, respectively. Among them, 
"cerebral microbleeds," "amyloid protein related imaging abnormalities (ARIA)," 
and "central nervous system superficial squamous cell hyperplasia" all exhibited 
strong signals, regardless of drug or sex of the patient. Additionally, there 
were some differences in PT signals between male and female patients, and some 
new PT signals that were not included in the drug labels were identified. The 
median time-to-onset of lecanemab was shorter than that of aducanumab (33 days 
vs. 146 days).
CONCLUSION: Four signal calculation methods were used to assess potential 
adverse reaction signals of lecanemab and aducanumab. This study identified some 
new PT signals and some PT signals showed gender differences. The median 
time-to-onset of ADEs due to lecanemab is shorter than that due to aducanumab.

Copyright © 2025 Kong, Yang and Xu.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1593989
PMCID: PMC12162493
PMID: 40520157

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


66. Cureus. 2025 May 13;17(5):e84057. doi: 10.7759/cureus.84057. eCollection 2025
 May.

The Effect of Chronic Inflammation and Oxidative Stress on Alzheimer's Disease 
Progression: A Systematic Review.

Bornemann EA(1), Kamma HK(2), Alabbas M(3), Elashahab M(4), Abid N(5), Manaye 
S(6), Cheran K(7), Murthy C(8), Giva S(9), Penumetcha SS(7)(10).

Author information:
(1)Neurology, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences and Psychology, 
Fairfield, USA.
(2)College of Medicine, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences and 
Psychology, Fairfield, USA.
(3)Cardiology, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, HUN.
(4)Radiology, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences and Psychology, 
Fairfield, USA.
(5)Rheumatology, King Faisal University, Al-Ahsa, SAU.
(6)Medicine, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences and Psychology, 
Fairfield, USA.
(7)General Medicine, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences and 
Psychology, Fairfield, USA.
(8)Internal Medicine, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences and 
Psychology, Fairfield, USA.
(9)Neonatology, Temple University Hospital, Dublin, IRL.
(10)General Medicine, Chalmeda Anand Rao Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Karimnagar, IND.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is known to be the most common type of dementia among 
older adults. It is characterized by a gradual decline in cognitive abilities, 
particularly the deterioration of short-term memory. The hallmark neuropathology 
of AD is the accumulation of neurofibrillary tau tangles (NFTs), which consist 
of hyperphosphorylated tau protein, as well as extracellular beta-amyloid 
plaques in the brain. Evidence suggests that AD is not solely tied to 
neurological mechanisms, and that other factors, such as inflammation, can 
affect disease progression, including systemic inflammation seen in metabolic 
syndrome and oxidative stress. We performed a literature review by searching 
databases and conducting a manual search of studies regarding the relationship 
between AD, inflammation, and oxidative stress, following the Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. 
After meticulous scrutiny and the application of inclusion and exclusion 
criteria to clinically relevant papers, 14 studies were deemed relevant for this 
review regarding the effect of inflammation and oxidative stress in relation to 
AD and its progression. The findings conclude that there is new evidence 
supporting the theory that chronic inflammation plays a significant role in the 
progression of the disease, which could allow for future advancements in 
treatments, diagnostics, and preventive tools for its management. These 
advancements could include the implementation and use of biomarkers for 
inflammation, the use of algorithms to stratify the disease's grade, and the use 
of mineral supplements like zinc. Furthermore, the management of underlying 
conditions has been shown to be beneficial in slowing the progression of AD.

Copyright © 2025, Bornemann et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.84057
PMCID: PMC12162268
PMID: 40519469

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


67. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):915-916. doi: 10.1177/13872877251350293.
Epub  2025 Jun 16.

Knowledge and attitudes about Alzheimer's disease in Nigerian geriatric 
outpatients: The role of primary care professionals.

Michael GC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, Kano, Nigeria.

The global population growth and aging have resulted in an increase in 
dementia/Alzheimer's disease. This suggests that both geriatric patients and 
those who care for them must be knowledgeable about the disease to inform 
appropriate health-seeking behavior on the part of the patient. and diagnosis 
and care provision by healthcare professionals. This commentary attempts to 
highlight the preponderance of insufficient knowledge of dementia/Alzheimer's 
disease among geriatric patients as well as healthcare professionals. It 
advocates training and retraining primary care professionals (physicians and 
nurses) in geriatric care/dementia, which will have a ripple effect on patient 
education and care.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251350293
PMID: 40518824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe author 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


68. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):917-919. doi: 10.1177/13872877251350291.
Epub  2025 Jun 16.

Seizing the link: Exploring the potential association between anti-seizure 
medications and Alzheimer's disease.

Zawar I(1), Kapur J(1).

Author information:
(1)Epilepsy Division, Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of 
Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.

Comment on
    J Alzheimers Dis.

Ongoing seizures in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are associated with worse cognitive 
and mortality outcomes. However, the relationship between anti-seizure 
medications (ASMs) and AD remains uncertain. This scoping review of 27 studies 
(1,241,796 participants) found ASM use to be associated with slightly increased 
AD risk, though findings were largely inconclusive. Associations between ASMs 
and AD-related symptoms, including mood, cognition, quality of life, function, 
and neuropsychiatric symptoms, were similarly mixed. The review establishes the 
scope of the problem, highlights the gaps, and maps available evidence. However, 
the included studies have methodological limitations, including inadequate 
control for the presence and severity of seizures, unclear ASM indications, lack 
of biomarker-based AD diagnosis, and limited ethnic and racial diversity, which 
limit conclusions and generalizability. Addressing these gaps in future studies 
will provide a more nuanced understanding of the relationship between seizures, 
ASMs, and AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251350291
PMCID: PMC12224195
PMID: 40518816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


69. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):911-914. doi: 10.1177/13872877251350138.
Epub  2025 Jun 16.

To know or to not know: The importance of assessing awareness of cognitive 
function in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease.

Vannini P(1)(2), Zamboni G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Charlestown, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical, Metabolic and Neural Sciences, University of Modena 
and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.

Self-awareness has become an important research topic in Alzheimer's disease, 
with both decreased and increased awareness of cognitive deficits observed in 
the early stages of the disease. Understanding the pathological underpinning and 
factors associated with altered self-awareness is crucial for diagnostic 
purposes and its implications in patient treatment. The study by Furuya et al., 
showed that decreased awareness was associated with an increased likelihood of 
harboring amyloid pathology in cognitively normal and mild cognitive impairment 
participants. Here, we discuss these findings as well as psychiatric and social 
determinants of awareness and the need to refine tools to understand altered 
self-awareness.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251350138
PMID: 40518813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


70. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):783-793. doi: 10.1177/13872877251345162.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Pimavanserin safety in adult and elderly patients with neuropsychiatric symptoms 
related to neurodegenerative disease: An open-label extension study.

Cubała WJ(1), Berrio A(2), Chi-Burris K(2), Alva G(3), Chrones L(4), Pathak 
S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Gdańsk, 
Gdańsk, Poland.
(2)Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc., San Diego, CA, USA.
(3)ATP Clinical Research, Department of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, University 
of California at Riverside, Riverside, CA, USA.
(4)Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc., Princeton, NJ, USA.

BackgroundAn 8-week, phase 3b, randomized, placebo-controlled trial demonstrated 
that pimavanserin, a selective 5HT2A inverse agonist, is generally well 
tolerated in elderly patients with neuropsychiatric symptoms related to 
neurodegenerative disease (NDD).ObjectiveThis open-label extension (OLE) study 
assessed the long-term safety and tolerability of pimavanserin.MethodsPatients 
from the antecedent double-blind (DB) trial who were treated with oral 
pimavanserin (34 mg/day) or placebo were enrolled. The safety analysis 
population included all patients who received ≥1 dose of pimavanserin. The 
primary endpoint was treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs). Exploratory 
endpoints included change from baseline in Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating 
Scale-Abbreviated (ESRS-A), Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Clinical 
Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S), EuroQoL 5-Dimension 5-Level (EQ-5D-5L), and 
Sleep Disorders Inventory (SDI) scores.ResultsPatients (N = 595; mean age, 72.2 
years) received pimavanserin treatment (mean exposure, 312.4 days). Most 
patients (95.3%) had dementia (68.7% of whom had Alzheimer's disease), and 70.6% 
were concomitantly treated with anti-dementia drugs. TEAEs occurred in 238 
(40.0%) patients, and 37 (6.2%) had a serious TEAE; 1 (0.2%) was 
pimavanserin-related. TEAEs resulted in treatment discontinuation in 39 (6.6%) 
patients. Fatal TEAEs occurred in 11 (1.8%) patients (none considered related to 
pimavanserin). The mean (standard error) change from DB baseline to OLE Week 52 
in MMSE, ESRS-A, CGI-S, EQ-5D-5L, and SDI scores was +0.9 (0.21), -0.3 (0.22), 
-1.0 (0.05), + 10.7 (0.87), and -0.9 (0.07), respectively. No patients reported 
suicidal behavior.ConclusionsPimavanserin was generally well tolerated in frail 
older adults and elderly patients with neuropsychiatric symptoms related to NDD 
for up to 52 weeks of treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251345162
PMCID: PMC12464353
PMID: 40518812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: WJC: Grants: 
Acadia, Alkermes, Allergan, Angelini, Auspex Pharmaceuticals, Beckley Psytech, 
BMS, Celon, Cephalon, Cortexyme, Ferrier, Forest Laboratories, GedeonRichter, GH 
Research, GW Pharmaceuticals, HMNC Brain Health, IntraCellular Therapies, 
Janssen, KCR, Lilly, Lundbeck, Minerva, MSD, NIH, Novartis, Orion, Otsuka, 
Recognify Life Sciences, Sanofi, Servier. Honoraria: Adamed, Angelini, 
AstraZeneca, BMS, Celon, GSK, Janssen, KRKA, Lekam, Lundbeck, Minerva, NeuroCog, 
Novartis, Orion, Pfizer, Polfa Tarchomin, Sanofi, Servier, Zentiva. Advisory 
boards: Angelini, Celon (terminated), Douglas Pharmaceuticals, GH Research, 
Janssen, MSD, Novartis, Sanofi.GA: Research support from Abbvie, Accera, Axsome, 
Axovant, Biogen, Eisai, Eli-Lily, Neurotrope, Genentech, Intra Cellular, 
Janssen, Lundbeck, Neurim, Novartis, Otsuka, Roche, Sage, Suven, and Trans Tech. 
Speakers Bureau and consultant for Abbvie, Acadia, Alkermes, Axsome, Biogen, 
Janssen, Idorsia, Lundbeck, Myriad, Neurocrine, Nestle, Otsuka, Sage, Sunovion, 
Teva, Takeda.AB, KCB, LC, and SP are employees of Acadia Pharmaceuticals.


71. J Adv Res. 2025 Jun 13:S2090-1232(25)00432-1. doi:
10.1016/j.jare.2025.06.024.  Online ahead of print.

FGFs/FGFRs and neuroinflammatory diseases: mechanism, drug therapies and 
delivery systems.

Wang J(1), Xing L(2), Song Y(3), Yang Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Ma H(1), Su B(1), Su 
L(1), Ma C(4), Liu M(5), Du K(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacology, China Medical University, 
Shenyang 110122, China.
(2)Precision Laboratory of Panjin Central Hospital, Panjin 124000, China.
(3)School of Medical Humanities, China Medical University, Shenyang 110122, 
China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Structure-Based Drug Design & Discovery of Ministry of 
Education, School of Pharmaceutical Engineering, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, Shenyang 110016, China. Electronic address: machao_syphu@163.com.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacology, China Medical University, 
Shenyang 110122, China. Electronic address: liumy_cmu@163.com.
(6)School of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacology, China Medical University, 
Shenyang 110122, China. Electronic address: kdu@cmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Fibroblast Growth Factors and Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptors 
(FGFs/FGFRs) constitute a complex and diverse signaling system crucial in 
various biological processes, such as cell proliferation, differentiation, 
migration, and survival. Dysregulation of the FGFs/FGFRs system plays a key role 
in the progression of neurological diseases through the neuroinflammatory 
process. FGFs/FGFRs have become a key target of novel drugs in recent years for 
the treatment of neurological diseases. Notably, drug delivery systems can 
enhance the clinical therapeutic efficacy of these drugs.
AIM OF REVIEW: This review highlights the critical role of FGFs/FGFRs in various 
neuroinflammatory diseases and provides an overview of the current research on 
FGFs/FGFRs-targeted therapeutic drugs, their novel delivery systems, and 
development potential. Advances in this field can enhance further application of 
potential drugs, offering new insights and approaches for treating 
neuroinflammatory diseases, thus reducing the incidence and progression.
KEY SCIENTIFIC CONCEPTS OF REVIEW: Moreover, this review summarizes the 
structure and function of FGFs/FGFRs, elucidates the signaling pathways through 
which the FGFs/FGFRs system is involved in neuroinflammatory diseases 
(Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD)), and emphasizes the key 
role of FGFs/FGFRs system in disease progression. Furthermore, the current 
anti-inflammatory drugs targeting the FGFs/FGFRs system, including direct FGF 
modulators and indirect FGF modulators, have been summarized. The positive 
impact of the development of novel drug delivery systems, such as liposomes, 
microspheres, and hydrogels, on therapeutic outcomes has also been discussed. 
Therefore, this review may offer guidance and insights for the management of 
neuroinflammatory disorders.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jare.2025.06.024
PMID: 40518115

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


72. Neurobiol Dis. 2025 Sep;213:107006. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.107006. Epub 2025
 Jun 13.

Role of Tropomodulins in brain physiology and pathology.

Hong C(1), Liu X(2), Zhou Z(3), Xing Y(3), Cao Z(3), Chang YZ(4), Gao G(5).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Biology; Hebei 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Eco-Environment; Hebei Key Laboratory of 
Animal Physiology, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology; Hebei Research Center of 
the Basic Discipline of Cell Biology; College of Life Sciences, Hebei Normal 
University, Shijiazhuang 050024, China; Hebei Institute of Metrology, 
Shijiazhuang 050000, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Clinical Neurology, Ministry of Education, Hebei Medical 
University; Department of Neurosurgery, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang 050000, China.
(3)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Biology; Hebei 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Eco-Environment; Hebei Key Laboratory of 
Animal Physiology, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology; Hebei Research Center of 
the Basic Discipline of Cell Biology; College of Life Sciences, Hebei Normal 
University, Shijiazhuang 050024, China.
(4)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Biology; Hebei 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Eco-Environment; Hebei Key Laboratory of 
Animal Physiology, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology; Hebei Research Center of 
the Basic Discipline of Cell Biology; College of Life Sciences, Hebei Normal 
University, Shijiazhuang 050024, China. Electronic address: 
yzchang@hebtu.edu.cn.
(5)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Biology; Hebei 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Eco-Environment; Hebei Key Laboratory of 
Animal Physiology, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology; Hebei Research Center of 
the Basic Discipline of Cell Biology; College of Life Sciences, Hebei Normal 
University, Shijiazhuang 050024, China. Electronic address: 
gaoguofen@hebtu.edu.cn.

Actin dynamics are crucial for the morphogenesis and function of neurons in the 
brain. Tropomodulins (Tmods) belong to a family of actin-binding proteins that 
cap the pointed-end of actin filaments. There are four Tmod isoforms, and three 
of which, Tmod1, Tmod2 and Tmod3, are expressed in the brain, with Tmod2 
exhibiting neuronal specific expression. By regulating actin filament dynamics, 
Tmods participate in neurite outgrowth, dendritic spine formation, and synaptic 
morphology, thereby contributing to structural and functional neural plasticity. 
Dysregulation of Tmods has been demonstrated in several neurodegenerative and 
neuropsychiatric diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, Down syndrome, 
and addictive behaviors. Currently, compared to cancer and cardiovascular 
diseases, the roles and mechanisms of altered Tmod expression in neurological 
diseases remain poorly understood. In this article, we provided an overview on 
the physiological roles and crucial functions of Tmods in the brain, summarized 
the recent advances in alterations of Tmods in neurodegenerative and 
neuropsychiatric diseases, and discussed their implications and potential 
contributions to disease pathology and treatment. This review may expedite 
future studies to delineate the roles and molecular mechanisms of Tmods in brain 
physiology and pathology, ultimately promoting the development of novel 
diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for related neurological diseases.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.107006
PMID: 40517963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


73. Neuroscience. 2025 Aug 16;581:223-232. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.06.024.  Epub 2025 Jun 13.

Integrative role of diet and gut microbiome dynamics for the interventive 
therapeutics of Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3: The current update.

Singh A(1), Bansal J(1), Bharti A(1), Joshi M(1), Saravanan C(2), Jain CK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Jaypee Institute of Information Technology, 
Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India, 201309.
(2)Department of Interdisciplinary Science, National Institute of Food 
Technology Entrepreneurship and Management, Kundli Haryana 131028, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Jaypee Institute of Information Technology, 
Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India, 201309. Electronic address: ckj522@yahoo.com.

Neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's have captured 
researchers' attention regarding their connection to gut microbiota and dietary 
factors. Research has shown that changes in our regular dietary consumption can 
profoundly influence the composition of the gut microbiota, which possesses the 
capacity to influence brain functioning through a number of mechanisms, 
suggesting that dietary modifications may serve as promising therapeutic 
intervention for managing and potentially mitigating the progression of several 
neurodegenerative diseases. Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type 3 (SCA3), a 
neurodegenerative disorder stems from an unstable CAG trinucleotide repeat 
expansion within the ATXN3 gene's coding regions. This leads to the production 
of polyglutamine, contributing to a range of symptoms. However, the therapeutic 
potential of targeting gut microbiome alterations through dietary interventions 
for SCA3 has not been extensively investigated. This review is the first to 
systematically integrate existing evidence on how dietary interventions and gut 
microbiome dynamics may be leveraged for the therapeutic management of SCA3. 
Specifically, we explore how dietary components including fermented foods, 
probiotics, fiber-rich diets, herbal compounds and pharmacological agents, 
including dietary and natural HDAC inhibitors can influence gut microbiota and 
modulate neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and protein aggregation, which are 
common hallmarks in neurodegenerative diseases. This paper elucidates the gut 
microbiota's ability to affect neurological health and its significance in the 
management of SCA3, hence facilitating future research aimed at treating SCA3 
patients by dietary modifications that modify particular gut flora.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.06.024
PMID: 40517941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Brain Res. 2025 Oct 1;1864:149784. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149784. Epub 
2025 Jun 13.

Therapeutic modulation of cGAS-STING pathway in neurodegeneration.

Sharma V(1), Verma R(2), Sharma P(3), Singh TG(4).

Author information:
(1)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: veerta@chitkara.edu.in.
(2)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: reetv04@gmail.com.
(3)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: Prateeksharma99155@gmail.com.
(4)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: gurjeet.singh@chitkara.edu.in.

Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by progressive loss of neurons and 
chronic neuroinflammation. Emerging evidence highlights the cyclic GMP-AMP 
synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) plays a pivotal role in the 
innate immune system by detecting cytosolic DNA and initiating type-1 
interferons and pro-inflammatory responses. In NDDs, the accumulation of 
misfolded or mutant proteins compromises mitochondrial function, leading to the 
release of mitochondrial or nuclear deoxyribose nucleic acid (DNA) into the 
cytosol. This aberrant DNA sensing activates the cGAS-STING pathway, triggering 
sustained neuroinflammatory cascades and contributing to neuronal dysfunction 
and disease progression. Therefore, this review highlights the role of 
cGAS-STING pathway as a promising therapeutic target, with pharmacological 
inhibitors demonstrating the potential to attenuate disease pathology in animal 
models. Future directions should focus on translating cGAS-STING modulators into 
clinical applications, optimizing their specificity and safety, and integrating 
biomarker-based strategies to enable patient stratification and monitor 
therapeutic efficacy. Modulating this pathway offers a novel and exciting avenue 
for intervention in currently intractable neurodegenerative conditions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149784
PMID: 40517803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


75. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Oct 15;296:117838. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117838.
Epub  2025 Jun 10.

AR-A014418-based dual Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3β/Histone Deacetylase inhibitors 
as potential therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease.

Santini A(1), Tassinari E(1), Altomare A(2), Loi M(3), Ciani E(3), Trazzi S(3), 
Piccarducci R(4), Daniele S(4), Martini C(4), Pagliarani B(1), Tarozzi A(1), 
Bersani M(5), Spyrakis F(5), Danková D(6), Poeta E(7), Raimondi S(1), Davani 
L(2), Aldini G(2), Andrisano V(1), De Simone A(5), Milelli A(8).

Author information:
(1)Department for Life Quality Studies, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Corso d'Augusto 237, 47921, Rimini, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Milan, Via Mangiagalli 
25, 20133, Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, Alma Mater 
Studiorum-University of Bologna, Piazza di Porta S. Donato 2, 40126, Bologna, 
Italy.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, University of Pisa, Via Bonanno Pisano 6, 56126, 
Pisa, Italy.
(5)Department of Drug Science and Technology, University of Turin, Via Pietro 
Giuria 9, 10125, Turin, Italy.
(6)Center for Biopharmaceuticals and Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, 
Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Jagtvej 160, 
DK-2100, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Via Francesco Selmi 3, 40126, Bologna, Italy.
(8)Department for Life Quality Studies, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Corso d'Augusto 237, 47921, Rimini, Italy. Electronic address: 
andrea.milelli3@unibo.it.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common type of dementia, currently represents 
an unmet medical need worldwide. It is considered the result of a systemic 
breakdown of multiple physiological networks which might be adequately tackled 
by multitarget drugs (MTDs) aimed at restoring the perturbed networks. 
Accumulating evidence suggests that Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3β (GSK-3β) and 
Histone Deacetylases (HDACs) synergistically contribute to disease pathogenesis. 
In a continuation of our efforts to develop MTDs for AD, we manipulated the 
structure of a previously reported GSK-3β inhibitor, AR-A014418, to develop a 
new class of dual GSK-3β/HDACs binding agents. Among the 34 synthesized 
derivatives, compound 19 showed encouraging results, inhibiting GSK-3β 
(IC50 = 0.04 ± 0.01 μM) HDAC2 (IC50 = 1.05 ± 0.11 μM), and HDAC6 
(IC50 = 1.52 ± 0.06 μM). In addition, compound 19 inhibits HDAC2 and 6 
activities in cells and blocks tau hyperphosphorylation. Interestingly, it is 
nontoxic in SH-SY5Y cells up to 100 μM, and exerts neuroprotective effects. 
Moreover, to better elucidate the mode of action of compound 19, its effects on 
the molecular pathways of SH-SY5Y cells were studied using a proteome-wide 
analysis. We uncovered the potential of compound 19, which represents a 
promising hit for the development of innovative disease-modifying agents.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117838
PMID: 40517573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


76. Drug Deliv Transl Res. 2025 Jun 14. doi: 10.1007/s13346-025-01887-9. Online 
ahead of print.

Crossing the blood-brain barrier: nanoparticle-based strategies for 
neurodegenerative disease therapy.

Haro-Martínez E(1), Muscolino E(1), Moral N(1), Duran J(2)(3)(4), Fornaguera 
C(5).

Author information:
(1)Institut Químic de Sarrià (IQS), Universitat Ramon Llull (URL), 08017, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Institut Químic de Sarrià (IQS), Universitat Ramon Llull (URL), 08017, 
Barcelona, Spain. jordi.duran@iqs.url.edu.
(3)Institute for Bioengineering of Catalonia (IBEC), The Barcelona Institute of 
Science and Technology, 08028, Barcelona, Spain. jordi.duran@iqs.url.edu.
(4)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Sobre Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), 28031, Madrid, Spain. jordi.duran@iqs.url.edu.
(5)Institut Químic de Sarrià (IQS), Universitat Ramon Llull (URL), 08017, 
Barcelona, Spain. cristina.fornaguera@iqs.url.edu.

Neurodegenerative conditions, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis, and Huntington's disease, represent a critical medical 
challenge due to their increasing prevalence, severe consequences, and absence 
of curative treatments. Beyond the need for a deeper understanding of the 
fundamental mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration, the development of 
effective treatments is hindered by the blood-brain barrier, which poses a major 
obstacle to delivering therapeutic agents to the central nervous system. This 
review provides a comprehensive analysis of the current landscape of 
nanoparticle-based strategies to overcome the blood-brain barrier and enhance 
drug delivery for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. The nanocarriers 
reviewed in this work encompass a diverse array of nanoparticles, including 
polymeric nanoparticles (e.g. micelles and dendrimers), inorganic nanoparticles 
(e.g. superparamagentic iron oxide nanoparticles, mesoporous silica 
nanoparticles, gold nanoparticles, selenium and cerium oxide nanoparticles), 
lipid nanoparticles (e.g. liposomes, solid lipid nanoparticles, nanoemulsions), 
as well as quantum dots, protein nanoparticles, and hybrid nanocarriers. By 
examining recent advancements and highlighting future research directions, we 
aim to shed light on the promising role of nanomedicine in addressing the unmet 
therapeutic needs of these diseases.

© 2025. Controlled Release Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s13346-025-01887-9
PMID: 40517187

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: Ethics approval 
and consent to participate does not apply in a review paper.  Consent to 
publish: All data used in this review paper comes from published articles.  
Consent for publication: All authors gave their consent for publication. 
Competing interests: No competing interests to be declared by any of the 
authors. 


77. NPJ Parkinsons Dis. 2025 Jun 15;11(1):170. doi: 10.1038/s41531-025-01030-y.

Cutaneous nerve fiber pathology and function in Parkinson's disease and atypical 
parkinsonism - a cohort study.

Andréasson M(1)(2)(3), Paslawski W(4), Terkelsen AJ(5), Samuelsson K(6)(4), 
Zetterberg H(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12), Blennow K(7)(8)(13)(14), Karlsson P(5)(15), 
Svenningsson P(16)(6)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Neurology, Academic Specialist Center, Stockholm, Sweden. 
mattias.andreasson@ki.se.
(2)Department of Neurology, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden. 
mattias.andreasson@ki.se.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden. mattias.andreasson@ki.se.
(4)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
(6)Department of Neurology, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(9)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(10)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(11)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(12)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(13)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(14)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, China.
(15)Danish Pain Research Center, Health, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(16)Center for Neurology, Academic Specialist Center, Stockholm, Sweden.

There is scientific evidence for ongoing neurodegeneration and alpha-synuclein 
pathology involving the peripheral nervous system in Parkinson's disease (PD) 
and multiple system atrophy (MSA). We explored putative disease-mirroring 
properties of cutaneous nerve fibers in patients with PD (n = 20), MSA (n = 12), 
four-repeat tauopathies (n = 11), and controls (n = 20). Assessments included 
clinical rating scales, blood sampling, sudomotor testing, skin punch biopsies 
from the neck and leg, and 1-year follow-up. Skin alpha-synuclein seeding 
amplification assay (SAA) and determination of intraepidermal nerve fiber 
density (IENFD) were performed. Reduced electrochemical skin conductance was 
evident in MSA, associated with clinical rating scores. Cervical skin SAA (PD vs 
controls) achieved a 100% sensitivity and 70% specificity for detecting PD. We 
found no difference in baseline IENFD, nor in 1-year changes, in patients 
relative to controls. Baseline IENFD, plasma neurofilament light, and SAA 
kinetics associated with 1-year clinical disease progression in MSA. Skin may 
harbor promising prognostic properties in MSA.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41531-025-01030-y
PMCID: PMC12167382
PMID: 40517154

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: M.A. declares no competing 
interest. W.P. has received funding from Parkinsonfonden Sweden. A.J.T. is 
funded by Novo Nordisk Borregaard Clinical Ascending grant (NNF23OC0082689) and 
has received honorarium from AstraZeneca UK limited, Novo Nordisk Denmark A/S, 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals and Sanofi A/S.K.S. declares no competing interest. H.Z. 
is a Wallenberg Scholar and a Distinguished Professor at the Swedish Research 
Council supported by grants from the Swedish Research Council (#2023-00356; 
#2022-01018 and #2019-02397), the European Union’s Horizon Europe research and 
innovation programme under grant agreement No 101053962, Swedish State Support 
for Clinical Research (#ALFGBG-71320), the Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation 
(ADDF), USA (#201809-2016862), the AD Strategic Fund and the Alzheimer’s 
Association (#ADSF-21-831376-C, #ADSF-21-831381-C, #ADSF-21-831377-C, and 
#ADSF-24-1284328-C), the European Partnership on Metrology, co-financed from the 
European Union’s Horizon Europe Research and Innovation Programme and by the 
Participating States (NEuroBioStand, #22HLT07), the Bluefield Project, Cure 
Alzheimer’s Fund, the Olav Thon Foundation, the Erling-Persson Family 
Foundation, Familjen Rönströms Stiftelse, Stiftelsen för Gamla Tjänarinnor, 
Hjärnfonden, Sweden (#FO2022-0270), the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research 
and innovation programme under the Marie Skłodowska-Curie grant agreement No 
860197 (MIRIADE), the European Union Joint Programme – Neurodegenerative Disease 
Research (JPND2021-00694), the National Institute for Health and Care Research 
University College London Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre, and the UK 
Dementia Research Institute at UCL (UKDRI-1003). H.Z. has served at scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work). K.B. is supported by the Swedish Research 
Council (#2017-00915 and #2022-00732), the Swedish Alzheimer Foundation 
(#AF-930351, #AF-939721, #AF-968270, and #AF-994551), Hjärnfonden, Sweden 
(#FO2017-0243 and #ALZ2022-0006), the Swedish state under the agreement between 
the Swedish government and the County Councils, the ALF-agreement 
(#ALFGBG-715986 and #ALFGBG-965240), the European Union Joint Program for 
Neurodegenerative Disorders (JPND2019-466-236), the Alzheimer’s Association 2021 
Zenith Award (ZEN-21-848495), the Alzheimer’s Association 2022-2025 Grant 
(SG-23-1038904 QC), La Fondation Recherche Alzheimer (FRA), Paris, France, the 
Kirsten and Freddy Johansen Foundation, Copenhagen, Denmark, and Familjen 
Rönströms Stiftelse, Stockholm, Sweden. KB has served as a consultant and at 
advisory boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, 
Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche 
Diagnostics, Sanofi and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring 
committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced 
educational materials and participated in educational programs for AC Immune, 
Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of 
Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper. P.K. 
declares no competing interest. P.S. has received honorarium for lectures or 
scientific board consultations from Lundbeck, AstraZeneca, Bial, and AbbVie.


78. Int Psychogeriatr. 2025 Jun 13:100094. doi: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100094.
Online  ahead of print.

Pre-psychosis in later life as a risk factor for progressive cognitive decline: 
Findings from the IPA psychosis in neurodegenerative disease working group.

Creese B(1), Cummings J(2), Fischer C(3), Jeste D(4), Ikeda M(5), Mills K(6), 
Ismail Z(7), Ballard C(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, College Health Medicine and Life Sciences, Brunel 
University of London, UK. Electronic address: Byron.Creese@brunel.ac.uk.
(2)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, School of Integrated Health Sciences, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, 
USA.
(3)Keenan Research Centre for Biomedical Science, St. Michael's Hospital, 
Toronto, ON, Canada; Department of Psychiatry, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Departments of Psychiatry, Neurosciences University of California San Diego, 
La Jolla, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Suita, Japan.
(6)Department Health and Community Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
University of Exeter, UK.
(7)Departments of Psychiatry, Clinical Neurosciences, Community Health Sciences, 
and Pathology, Hotchkiss Brain Institute and O'Brien Institute for Public 
Health, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.

Pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease (AD) has traditionally been characterized by 
subtle cognitive deficits alongside biomarker changes. However, emerging 
evidence suggests a spectrum of neuropsychiatric changes, including apathy, 
affective disturbances, agitation, impulse control deficits, and psychosis, may 
precede cognitive decline. Late-onset psychotic disorders, such as Very 
Late-Onset Schizophrenia-Like Psychosis (VLOSLP), differ from pre-psychosis, the 
latter presenting with subtle symptoms and retained insight. These subtler 
late-life onset symptoms are associated with incident cognitive decline, 
particularly in APOE4 carriers. Screening with tools such as the Mild Behavioral 
Impairment Checklist (MBI-C) enables the standardisation of measurement, 
facilitating identification of at-risk individuals. Plasma biomarkers and 
neuropsychological assessments further aid diagnosis and risk stratification. 
Understanding the link between pre-psychosis and dementia-related psychosis will 
be crucial, as AD with psychosis is associated with a more aggressive disease 
course. Identifying and treating these individuals early may improve clinical 
outcomes and facilitate timely intervention with disease-modifying therapies. 
Moreover, there remains a need to better define in what circumstances treatment 
interventions are indicated and what those interventions should be.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100094
PMID: 40517113

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Byron Creese reports a relationship 
with IGC Pharma that includes: consulting or advisory. Byron Creese reports a 
relationship with Milbotix Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Byron 
Creese reports a relationship with National Institute of Health and Care 
Research that includes: funding grants. Clive Ballard reports a relationship 
with Acadia, Johnson & Johnson, Janssen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, TauRx, 
Novo Nordisk, BioXcel Therapeutics, Orion, Addex, AARP, GW Pharmaceuticals, 
Roche, Sunovion, Suven, and Biogen and grants from Novo Nordisk and ReMYND that 
includes consulting or advisory. Corinne Fischer reports a relationship with 
Novo Nordisk, the Hilary and Galen Weston Foundation, ADDF, NIH/NIA, CIHR/CCNA, 
Temerty-Tanz-TDRA, Mito2i that includes consulting or advisory. Jeffrey Cummings 
reports a relationship with Acadia, Acumen, ALZpath, Annovis, Aprinoia, Artery, 
Axsome, Biogen, Biohaven, BioXcel, Bristol-Myers Squib, Eisai, Fosun, GAP 
Foundation, Green Valley, Hummingbird Diagnostics, Janssen, Karuna, Kinoxis, 
Lighthouse, Lilly, Lundbeck, LSP/eqt, Mangrove Therapeutics, Merck, MoCA 
Cognition, New Amsterdam, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Otsuka, Oxford Brain 
Diagnostics, Praxis, Prothena, ReMYND, Roche, Scottish Brain Sciences, Signant 
Health, Simcere, sinaptica, T-Neuro, TrueBinding, and Vaxxinity pharmaceutical, 
assessment, and investment companies. Jeffrey Cummings owns the copyright of the 
Neuropsychiatric Inventory. Jeffrey Cummings has stocks options in Annovis, 
Artery, Vaxxinity, Behrens, Alzheon, MedAvante-Prophase, Acumen. Manibou Ikeda 
reports a relationship with Eisai Inc, Eli Lilly, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Novo 
Nordisk and Honoraria from Eisai Inc, Eli Lilly, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Sumitomo 
Pharma that includes consulting or advisory. Zahinoor Ismail reports a 
relationship with CADTH, Eisai, Lilly, Lundbeck/Otsuka, Novo Nordisk, and Roche 
that includes consulting or advisory. Dilip Jeste is Editor-in-Chief for this 
journal and was not involved in the editorial review or the decision to publish 
this article. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


79. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;12(8):100221. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100221.  Epub 2025 Jun 13.

Adherence to an anti-inflammatory diet is associated with lower Alzheimer's 
disease mortality: A modifiable risk factor in a national cohort.

Hsu CC(1), Wang SI(2), Yu S(3), Lin ES(4), Wei JC(5).

Author information:
(1)Board of Directors, Wizcare Medical Corporation Aggregate, Taichung 404022, 
Taiwan; International Intercollegiate Ph.D. Program, National Tsing Hua 
University, Hsinchu 300044, Taiwan. Electronic address: chi7hsu@gmail.com.
(2)Center for Health Data Science, Department of Medical Research, Chung Shan 
Medical University Hospital, Taichung 402306, Taiwan; Department of Health 
Policy and Management, College of Health Care and Management, Chung Shan Medical 
University, Taichung 402306, Taiwan. Electronic address: shiowing0107@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Dermatology, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung 807378, Taiwan; Department of Dermatology, Kaohsiung Medical 
University Gangshan Hospital, Kaohsiung 820111, Taiwan; Department of 
Dermatology, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 807377, Taiwan; 
Master of Public Health Program, College of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei 100025, Taiwan; Neuroscience Research Center, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung 807378, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
epor324@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Economics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 300044, 
Taiwan; EMBA/MBA/MFB/MPM/HBA Programs, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 
300044, Taiwan. Electronic address: slin@mx.nthu.edu.tw.
(5)Institute of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 402306, 
Taiwan; Department of Allergy, Immunology & Rheumatology, Chung Shan Medical 
University Hospital, Taichung 402306, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Integrated 
Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung 406040, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
jccwei@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Chronic neuroinflammation contributes to Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathogenesis, and diet is a modifiable factor influencing inflammation. The 
impact of an anti-inflammatory diet on AD-specific mortality remains unclear.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the association between adherence to an anti-inflammatory 
diet (measured as the percentage of dietary energy from anti-inflammatory foods) 
and AD-specific mortality, as well as all-cause mortality, in a large national 
cohort, and to determine whether associations differ by sex or race/ethnicity.
METHODS: We analyzed 18,795 U.S. adults (≥18 years) from the 2007-2014 National 
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Anti-inflammatory diet adherence was 
defined as the percentage of total energy intake from anti-inflammatory foods, 
categorized as 0 %, <5 %, 5-9.99 %, or ≥10 %. Outcomes were AD-specific 
mortality and all-cause mortality ascertained via the National Death Index. Cox 
proportional hazards models were used to estimate hazard ratios (HRs) and 95 % 
confidence intervals (CIs) for mortality across intake categories, adjusting for 
demographic, lifestyle, and health factors. Analyses were stratified by sex, 
race/ethnicity, and age (≥45 years for AD mortality).
RESULTS: Participants with 0 % anti-inflammatory intake had a higher all-cause 
mortality risk (HR 3.82, 95 % CI 1.18-12.33) compared to those with ≥10 % 
intake. In the overall analysis, 0 % anti-inflammatory intake showed a trend of 
reduced AD-specific mortality although its did not reach statistical 
significance after full adjustment (HR 3.04, 95 % CI 0.74-12.46 vs. ≥10 % 
intake; p>0.05). Notably, the inverse association between anti-inflammatory diet 
and AD mortality emerged in subgroup analyses. Male participants and 
non-Hispanic White participants with 0 % intake had the highest AD mortality 
hazards (HR 12.83 and 3.77, respectively, vs. ≥10 % intake), indicating 
significant risk reductions with anti-inflammatory diet in these groups. In 
contrast, no significant associations were observed in female or non-White 
subgroups. Even a modest intake of anti-inflammatory foods (≥10 % of calories) 
was associated with lower AD mortality risk in the above subgroups and with 
lower all-cause mortality overall.
CONCLUSION: Greater consumption of anti-inflammatory foods was associated with 
lower all-cause and a trend toward lower AD-specific mortality. The observed 
protective effects were confined to certain subpopulations (notably men and 
non-Hispanic Whites). Even a small portion of the diet (10 % of calories) being 
anti-inflammatory was linked to reduced mortality risk in these groups, 
suggesting that achievable dietary changes could have an impact. These findings 
support modifying dietary content is a practical, low-cost intervention that 
could mitigate neuroinflammation to reduce AD mortality risk.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100221
PMCID: PMC12413709
PMID: 40517083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


80. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;12(7):100229. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100229.  Epub 2025 Jun 13.

Breaking Barriers: Delivering Therapeutics to the Brain in Alzheimer's Disease.

De Strooper B(1), Scheltens P(2), Salloway S(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Brain and Disease research at VIB@KULeuven, University of Leuven, 
Belgium and Laboratory of the cellular phase of Alzheimer's Disease at 
UKDRI@University College London, UCL, UK.
(2)EQT Life Sciences, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Departments of Neurology and Psychiatry, Warren Alpert Medical School of 
Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA. Electronic address: 
Stephen_Salloway@brown.edu.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100229
PMCID: PMC12321621
PMID: 40517082

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures BDS has performed consultancies for 
several large and small companies (including Roche, Eisai, EQTpartners, Remynd, 
Tactile, Earlybird, Sironax, Montis, Abyssinia) over the past 3 years and is a 
minor shareholder of Muna Tx. PhS is a full-time employee of EQT Life Sciences. 
He is also co-chair of the EVOKE studies of NOVO Nordisk and member of the DSMB 
of the Retain study and Immunobrain study. SS provides consultation to Lilly, 
Biogen, Roche, Genentech, Eisai, Acumen, NovoNordisk, Prothena, Labcorp, AbbVie 
and Neurophet. He is also an Associate Editor of the Journal of the Prevention 
of Alzheimer’s Disease. Butler Hospital receives support for clinical trials 
from Lilly, Biogen, Genentech, Johnson and Johnson, Roche, Eisai and Novartis.


81. Clin Chim Acta. 2025 Aug 15;576:120427. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2025.120427. Epub 
2025 Jun 14.

Non-coding RNA biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease.

Mohammadpour M(1), Saeidi K(2), Ferdosi F(3), Khanifar H(4), Dadgostar E(5), 
Zakizadeh F(6), Abdolghaderi S(7), Khatami SH(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Shiraz Medical School, Shiraz University of Medical Science, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Shahrekord University of Medical Sciences, 
Shahrekord, Iran.
(5)Behavioral Sciences Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, 
Isfahan, Iran; Student Research Committee, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine Noor (Khorshid) Educational and 
Treatment Center & Ali Asghar (AS) Hospital Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences Isfahan, Iran. Electronic address: faranak_zakizadeh@yahoo.com.
(7)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
Abdolghaderisiavash@gmail.com.
(8)Student Research Committee, Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of 
Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
Electronic address: shossein.khatami@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent cause of dementia among elderly 
individuals and is characterized by progressive cognitive decline, memory 
impairment, and the accumulation of amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and 
neurofibrillary tangles in the brain. Despite extensive research, current 
therapeutic approaches remain limited to symptomatic relief and are unable to 
halt disease progression. This challenge highlights the urgent need for reliable 
biomarkers that enable early diagnosis and facilitate the development of 
targeted interventions. Noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) have recently emerged as 
promising biomarkers because of their regulatory roles in gene expression and 
cellular function. Among them, microRNAs (miRNAs) have revolutionized our 
understanding of neurodegenerative processes, with evidence linking their 
dysregulation to AD pathology. Additionally, circular RNAs (circRNAs), long 
noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), and PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) have been 
implicated in neuronal survival, synaptic maintenance, and amyloid precursor 
protein processing, further expanding the biomarker landscape. This review 
examines the expression patterns, functional significance, and diagnostic 
potential of ncRNAs in AD, alongside methodological approaches for their 
detection. By bridging molecular insights with translational applications, we 
explore how ncRNAs may redefine AD diagnostics and therapeutic strategies in the 
future.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2025.120427
PMID: 40516893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


82. Int J Pharm. 2025 Aug 20;681:125851. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2025.125851. Epub
 2025 Jun 13.

Advances in alginate-based nanoformulations: Innovative and effective strategies 
for targeting and treating brain disorders.

Rawat E(1), Sharma S(2), Vyas S(3), Alsaidan OA(4), Kapoor DU(5), Prajapati 
BG(6).

Author information:
(1)Manav Rachna University, Faridabad 121004 Haryana, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali 304022 Rajasthan, 
India.
(3)Department of Pure & Applied Chemistry, University of Kota, Kota 324005 
Rajasthan, India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, Jouf University, Sakaka, 
Saudi Arabia 72341.
(5)Dr. Dayaram Patel Pharmacy College, Bardoli 394601 Gujarat, India. Electronic 
address: dev7200@gmail.com.
(6)Centre for Research Impact & Outcome, Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara 
University, Rajpura 140401 Punjab, India; Faculty of Pharmacy, Silpakorn 
University, Nakhon Pathom 73000, Thailand. Electronic address: 
bhupen27@gmail.com.

Brain disorders, encompassing neurodegenerative conditions and intracranial 
neoplasms, present formidable obstacles in the realm of pharmacological delivery 
due to the existence of athe blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the restricted 
bioavailability of therapeutic agents. Alginate-derived nanoformulations have 
emerged as highly promising systems for drug delivery, offering attributes such 
as biocompatibility, regulated release, and improved targeting efficacies. This 
review investigates contemporary advancements in alginate-based 
nanoformulations, with a particular emphasis on their efficacy in surmounting 
obstacles to successful pharmacological delivery to the brain. Initially, we 
furnish a comprehensive overview of alginate, underscoring its pertinent 
properties, biomedical applications, and inherent limitations. Subsequently, the 
discourse progresses to strategies for nanoformulation, which encompass 
lipid-based, polymeric, and inorganic methodologies, with a focus on their 
benefits in relation to cerebral targeting. Moreover, this review entails the 
therapeutic potential of alginate-based nanoformulations in addressing 
significant neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, brain tumours, traumatic brain injury, epilepsy, and amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis. By amalgamating cutting-edge nanotechnology with the 
distinctive properties of alginate, these formulations signify a promising 
pathway for the advancement of efficacious therapies aimed at brain targeting. 
Additionally, prospective research trajectories and challenges associated with 
the optimization of alginate-based nanocarriers for clinical applications are 
also elucidated.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2025.125851
PMID: 40516772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


83. Brain Behav Immun. 2025 Oct;129:318-334. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2025.06.017. Epub
 2025 Jun 16.

Adult human subventricular zone microglia promote a pro-neurogenic niche for 
neuronal progenitors in Parkinson's disease.

Pecoraro S(1), Verkerke M(1), Sluijs JA(2), van Het Hof B(3), van der Pol 
SMA(4), van Strien ME(2), van der Kant R(5), de Vries C(6), de Vries HE(4), van 
de Berg WDJ(7), Hol EM(8), Donega V(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, Amsterdam UMC Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Translational Neuroscience, UMC Utrecht Brain Center, 
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht University, 3584 CG Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, Amsterdam UMC Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, Amsterdam UMC Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Neuro-infection and Neuro-inflammation, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(5)Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive Research, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Alzheimer Center 
Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam University Medical Center, 
Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam Cardiovascular Sciences, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam 1105 AZ, the 
Netherlands.
(7)Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, Amsterdam UMC Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(8)Department of Translational Neuroscience, UMC Utrecht Brain Center, 
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht University, 3584 CG Utrecht, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: E.M.Hol-2@umcutrecht.nl.
(9)Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, Amsterdam UMC Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
V.Donega@amsterdamumc.nl.

Neural stem cells (NSCs) in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the mammalian brain 
become increasingly quiescent with aging, which correlates to increased 
inflammatory signals in the SVZ. Targeting cells that secrete inflammatory 
signals, such as microglia, could potentially re-activate NSCs. In this study, 
we characterized CD11b-positive microglia isolated from post-mortem SVZ from 
non-demented control (Aged), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Parkinson's disease 
(PD) by single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing. Our transcriptome data revealed 
changes in gene signature in SVZ microglia from PD and AD, highlighting a 
disease-dependent response. Culture of iPSC-derived NSCs with supernatant from 
Aged, PD, and AD SVZ microglia showed an increase in proliferation and neuronal 
differentiation in the PD condition. Furthermore, we identified NR4A2, a 
transcription factor that promotes an anti-inflammatory microglia state, as a 
potential molecular mechanism that promotes a pro-neurogenic microglia 
phenotype. Altogether, our work identified a pro-neurogenic subpopulation of SVZ 
microglia that could be a novel target to promote repair in neurodegenerative 
diseases.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2025.06.017
PMID: 40516636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: All authors declare no competing 
interests with the exception of W.v.d.B. who is in the scientific advisory board 
of Alzheimer Nederland and Gain Therapeutics. W.v.d.B. performed contract 
research for Roche Tissue Diagnostics and Discoveric.


84. Clin Neurophysiol. 2025 Aug;176:2110756. doi: 10.1016/j.clinph.2025.2110756. 
Epub 2025 Jun 5.

Multivariate empirical mode decomposition reveals markers of Alzheimer's Disease 
in the oscillatory response to transcranial magnetic stimulation.

Bernardi D(1), Casula EP(2), Rocchi L(3), Fadiga L(4), Koch G(5), Papo D(6).

Author information:
(1)Center for Translational Neurophysiology of Speech and Communication, 
Fondazione Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Ferrara, Italy; Department of 
Physics and Astronomy, University of Padova, Padova, Italy. Electronic address: 
davide.bernardi@unipd.it.
(2)Department of Systems Medicine, University of Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy; 
Department of Clinical and Behavioral Neurology, Santa Lucia Foundation IRCCS, 
Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Medical Sciences and Public Health, University of Cagliari, 
Cagliari, Italy.
(4)Center for Translational Neurophysiology of Speech and Communication, 
Fondazione Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Ferrara, Italy; Department of 
Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. 
Electronic address: luciano.fadiga@iit.it.
(5)Center for Translational Neurophysiology of Speech and Communication, 
Fondazione Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Ferrara, Italy; Department of 
Clinical and Behavioral Neurology, Santa Lucia Foundation IRCCS, Rome, Italy; 
Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, 
Italy.
(6)Center for Translational Neurophysiology of Speech and Communication, 
Fondazione Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Ferrara, Italy; Department of 
Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate EEG activity following transcranial magnetic 
stimulation (TMS) of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of Alzheimer's Disease 
(AD) patients and control subjects using a data-driven characterization of brain 
oscillatory activity without prescribed frequency bands.
METHODS: We employed multivariate empirical mode decomposition (MEMD) to analyze 
the TMS-EEG response of 38 AD patients and 21 control subjects. We used the 
distinct features of EEG oscillatory modes to train a classification algorithm, 
a support vector machine.
RESULTS: AD patients exhibited a weakened slow-frequency response. Faster 
oscillatory modes displayed a biphasic response pattern in controls, 
characterized by an early increase followed by a widespread suppression, which 
was reduced in AD patients. Classification achieved robust discrimination 
performance (85%/23% true/false positive rate).
CONCLUSIONS: AD causes an impairment in the oscillatory response to TMS that has 
distinct features in different frequency ranges. These features uncovered by 
MEMD could serve as an effective EEG diagnostic marker.
SIGNIFICANCE: Early detection of AD requires diagnostic tools that are both 
effective and accessible. Combining EEG with TMS shows great promise. Our 
results and method enhance TMS-EEG both as a practical diagnostic tool, and as a 
way to further our understanding of AD pathophysiology.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinph.2025.2110756
PMID: 40516387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest GK declares 
that he is scientific co-founder of Sinaptica Therapeutics.


85. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Aug;189:118247. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118247. 
Epub 2025 Jun 13.

VU0810464, a selective GIRK channel activator, improves hippocampal-dependent 
synaptic plasticity and memory disrupted by amyloid-β oligomers.

Mulero-Franco J(1), Jimenez-Herrera R(1), Contreras A(1), Djebari S(1), 
Jiménez-Díaz L(2), Navarro-López JD(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurophysiology & Behavior Lab, Faculty of Medicine of Ciudad Real, 
University of Castilla-La Mancha, Ciudad Real, Spain.
(2)Neurophysiology & Behavior Lab, Faculty of Medicine of Ciudad Real, 
University of Castilla-La Mancha, Ciudad Real, Spain. Electronic address: 
Lydia.Jimenez@uclm.es.
(3)Neurophysiology & Behavior Lab, Faculty of Medicine of Ciudad Real, 
University of Castilla-La Mancha, Ciudad Real, Spain. Electronic address: 
Juan.Navarro@uclm.es.

Selective pharmacological activation of G protein-gated inwardly rectifying K⁺ 
(GIRK) channels -a key physiological determinant of neuronal excitability 
control- has proven highly effective in counteracting amyloid-β oligomer 
(oAβ)-induced hyperexcitability and hippocampal dysfunction in early Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). However, GIRK gain-of-function in healthy animals disrupts 
learning, memory and underlying synaptic plasticity, greatly limiting its 
therapeutic potential in preclinical asymptomatic AD patients. Therefore, 
GIRK-based pharmacological treatment needs further investigation to overcome 
these limitations. Here we tested two doses of a novel, more potent, and 
neuronal selective GIRK activator, VU0810464, in healthy and 
intracerebroventricular (icv.) oAβ1-42-induced AD-like male and female mice. 
Both doses normalized: 1) at the synaptic level, CA3-CA1 long-term synaptic 
potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal slices, and 2) at the behavioral level, object 
location memory (OLM), a hippocampal-dependent spatial contextual recognition 
memory task. However, in healthy mice, while a low VU0810464 dose had no 
significant effect on hippocampal LTP and OLM, the higher dose impaired both 
processes. Importantly, these effects were consistent across sexes, as no sex 
differences were observed in any condition. Finally, VU0810464 reduced 
oAβ-induced hippocampal hyperexcitability, providing direct functional evidence 
of a mechanistic link between GIRK activation and restoration of network 
excitability. Our results suggest that the precise tuning of neural excitability 
with low dosing of VU0810464 might be a promising strategy to safely treat and 
prevent hippocampal overexcitation and upstreaming memory deficits in early 
preclinical asymptomatic phases of AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118247
PMID: 40516330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


86. Methods Mol Biol. 2025;2940:207-213. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-4615-1_19.

The Application of HSV-1 in Investigating Neurological Diseases.

Huang Z(1), Peng L(1), Zheng C(2), Sun W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Fifth Affiliated Hospital, Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Infectious Diseases, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.

Abnormalities in the structure and function of neural circuits can disrupt 
normal physiological processes, leading to various disorders, such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), which are closely 
associated with dysfunctions within brain neural circuits. Elucidating the 
architecture of these circuits is fundamental for understanding the mechanisms 
underlying information processing in the brain, facilitating investigations into 
the pathogenesis of diverse neurological diseases, and providing a theoretical 
foundation for their prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. Viral tracers have 
been instrumental in identifying novel neural circuits or revealing new 
properties of established circuits. Compared with small-molecule compounds and 
peptide tracers, neurotropic viruses offer several advantages as neural circuit 
tracers: first, they possess self-replicative capabilities that enable signal 
amplification; second, they can label both upstream and downstream neurons 
across synapses; and third, they are capable of delivering foreign genes into 
neuronal cells. Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) stands out as a significant 
member among neurotropic viruses because of its unique neurotropic 
characteristics and transneuronal transmission properties, making it an ideal 
tool for tracing neural circuits.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-4615-1_19
PMID: 40515914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Gerontologist. 2025 Aug 4;65(8):gnaf150. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnaf150.

Use of cognitive screening among older adults who care for people with dementia: 
a national survey.

Liu Y(1), Ye W(1), Mattke S(1).

Author information:
(1)The USC Brain Health Observatory, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, California, United States.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Older adults caring for people with dementia 
experience substantial burden and bear higher risk of cognitive decline 
themselves. Little is known on their uptake of cognitive screening.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Between December 19, 2023, and February 28, 2024, 
US residents aged 65+ from a nationally representative, probability-based 
internet panel were surveyed on their experience with cognitive screening in the 
past 12 months. Self-reported caregiving status, including the health conditions 
of the care recipients, was collected between 2011 and 2023. Multivariable 
logistic regression examined the association between the probability of taking a 
cognitive test and the caregiver status (dementia caregiver, non-dementia 
caregiver, or non--caregiver), after accounting for the demographics, whether 
having subjective memory concerns, and whether having a usual source of care.
RESULTS: Among the 2,272 participants (74% of eligibles), 19.7% reported having 
undergone a cognitive test during a doctor's visit: 25.2% of dementia 
caregivers, 19.2% of non-dementia caregivers, and 19.1% of non-caregivers. After 
regression adjustment, dementia caregivers had a 6 percentage points higher rate 
of screening (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] = 1.44, 95% CI = 1.01, 2.07), whereas no 
difference was found between non-dementia caregivers and non-caregivers 
(AOR = 1.03, 95% CI = 0.82, 1.30).
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: This study provides evidence that older dementia 
caregivers are significantly but only marginally more likely to undergo 
cognitive screening than their non-dementia caregiver and non-caregiver 
counterparts, despite their increased risk of cognitive impairment. These 
findings call for attention to this potential gap in care, and interventions to 
address the barriers faced by older dementia caregivers.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnaf150
PMCID: PMC12319532
PMID: 40515710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Ann Neurol. 2025 Sep;98(3):524-532. doi: 10.1002/ana.27266. Epub 2025 Jun 14.

Midlife Steroid-Binding Globulin Levels and In Vivo Neuroimaging Measures of Tau 
in Older Men and Women.

Buckley RF(1)(2)(3), Scott M(4)(5), McGrath ER(4)(6), Coughlan G(1), Seto M(2), 
Ghosh S(5), Jacobs HIL(1), Satizabal CL(7)(8), Thibault E(1), Ramachandran 
V(5)(9)(10), Murabito JM(11), Sperling RA(1)(2), Johnson KA(9)(12), Jasuja 
R(13), Bhasin S(14), Seshadri S(5)(7)(8), Beiser AS(5)(6)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA.
(2)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Boston, MA.
(3)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA.
(6)HRB Clinical Research Facility, National University of Ireland Galway, 
Galway, Ireland.
(7)Glen Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
University of Texas Health San Antonio, San Antonio, TX.
(8)Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
(9)Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
(10)Department of Medicine and Population Health Sciences, University of Texas 
School of Public Health San Antonio, University of Texas Health Science Center, 
San Antonio, TX.
(11)Section of General Internal Medicine, Boston University Chobanian and 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
(12)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA.
(13)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA.
(14)Research Program in Men's Health: Aging and Metabolism, Boston Claude D. 
Pepper Older Americans Independence Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

OBJECTIVE: In men and women, sex steroid hormones have been associated with 
increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. We aimed to investigate the 
influence of midlife testosterone and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) levels 
on later-life in vivo markers of β-amyloid (Aβ) and tau deposition in clinically 
healthy older men.
METHODS: This time-lagged study includes participants enrolled in the Framingham 
Heart Study (FHS) Third Generation cohort. One hundred fifty-nine men (mean 
agePET-scan = 58 [±/9] years) underwent blood (hormones) collection in 2002 to 
2005, and then a single Aβ 11C-Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB) PiB-positron emission 
tomography (PET) and 18F-Flortaucipir (FTP)-PET scan in 2016 to 2020. Linear 
regressions examined sex-stratified associations among total testosterone, and 
SHBG with Aβ-PET, and tau-PET after adjusting for age. Separate models examined 
the moderating effect of Aβ-PET and APOEε4.
RESULTS: In men, the elevated SHBG level was associated with lower tau-PET in 
entorhinal (Bunstandardized = -0.001 [SE = 0.0005], p = 0.007), inferior 
temporal (Bunstandardized = -0.001 [SE = 0.0004], p = 0.04), and rostral middle 
frontal regions (Bunstandardized = -0.001 [SE = 0.0004], p = 0.02). These 
findings were largely driven by APOEε4 non-carriers. Testosterone levels were 
not associated with the Aβ-PET or tau-PET signal.
INTERPRETATION: We report a potential protective effect of SHBG levels on 
tau-PET burden in men. Higher levels of SHBG have been associated with lower 
risk of vascular-related comorbidities, such as obesity and diabetes, and is 
regulated by modifiable lifestyle factors. Given mounting evidence of a link 
between vascular injury and tauopathy in preclinical AD, our findings suggest an 
intriguing protective cardiovascular pathway for men against higher tau burden 
later in life. ANN NEUROL 2025;98:524-532.

© 2025 The Author(s). Annals of Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.27266
PMCID: PMC12392056
PMID: 40515488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Nothing to report.


89. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2025 Oct;139:107904. doi: 
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107904. Epub 2025 Jun 4.

Hope vs Hype II: We should stop embarking on epidemiology-based disease 
modifying clinical trials.

Espay AJ(1), Piccinin CC(2), Schwarzschild M(3).

Author information:
(1)Gardner Family Center for Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders, 
University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA. Electronic 
address: alberto.espay@uc.edu.
(2)Center for Neurological Restoration, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, 
OH, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2025.107904
PMID: 40514307

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests:Dr. Espay has received grant support 
from the NIH and the Michael J Fox Foundation; personal compensation as a 
consultant/scientific advisory board member for Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma America 
(formerly, Neuroderm), Amneal, Acorda, Abbvie, Bial, Kyowa Kirin, Supernus 
(formerly, USWorldMeds), NeuroDiagnostics, Inc (SYNAPS Dx), Intrance Medical 
Systems, Inc., Merz, Praxis Precision Medicines, Citrus Health, and Herantis 
Pharma; Data Safety Monitoring Board (chair) of AskBio; and publishing royalties 
from Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Cambridge University Press, and Springer. He 
is co-inventor of the patent “Compositions and methods for treatment and/or 
prophylaxis of proteinopathies.” He cofounded REGAIN Therapeutics to fund 
preclinical studies but relinquished the right to any personal income from 
future treatments. He serves on the editorial boards of the Journal of 
Parkinson's Disease, Journal of Alzheimer's Disease, European Journal of 
Neurology, Movement Disorders Clinical Practice, and JAMA Neurology. Dr. 
Piccinin has no financial interests/personal relationships to declare. Dr. 
Schwarzschild has received grant support from the NIH, FDA, Parkinson's 
Foundation, Michael J. Fox Foundation, Farmer Family Foundation, Cure 
Parkinson's, and Radboud University Medical Center (Nijmegen); consulting fees 
from the Parkinson Study Group for steering committee service on clinical trials 
sponsored by Denali/Biogen and UCB/Novartis; from Sutter Health for steering 
committee service on the TOPAZ trial; from the Parkinson's Foundation for 
steering committee service on the PD-GENEration trial; from Northwestern 
University for steering committee service on the SPARX3 trial; and from SPARK 
NeuroScience for advisory services on clinical trial design. He has also served 
in an elected leadership role at the Parkinson Study Group.


90. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;12(7):100230. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100230.  Epub 2025 Jun 12.

Advancing the science of recruitment for Alzheimer's clinical trials: Challenges 
and opportunities.

Aisen P(1), Peneva D(2), Manetas MA(2), Jacobson M(3), Goldman D(4), Bose N(5), 
Ferrell PB(6), Vu VK(5), Raman R(1).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine, 
University of Southern California, San Diego, CA, USA.
(2)Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Price School of Public Policy, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Price School of Public Policy, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Mann School of Pharmacy 
and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA. Electronic address: dpgoldma@usc.edu.
(5)Gates Ventures LLC, Kirkland, WA, USA.
(6)Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Despite recent advancements in Alzheimer's disease therapeutics and diagnostics, 
significant challenges remain in accelerating participant 
recruitment-particularly among diverse populations-and ensuring equitable access 
to clinical trials. This paper summarizes discussions and recommendations from 
the 2024 Roundtable on Advancing the Science of Recruitment for Inclusive 
Alzheimer's Disease Clinical Trials, hosted by the USC Clinical Trial 
Recruitment Lab (CTRL). Bringing together 40 leading experts from across the 
Alzheimer's clinical trial ecosystem in the U.S., including thought leaders from 
academia, industry, government and philanthropy, the Roundtable examined 
critical barriers to inclusivity and explored emerging recruitment approaches. 
Discussions highlighted the need for strategies that expand patient access, 
remove systemic barriers, and foster inclusivity in clinical research.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100230
PMCID: PMC12321627
PMID: 40514303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Paul Aisen reports grants from 
National Institute of Health, Lilly, Alzheimer's Association; consulting for 
Merck, Roche, Genentech, Abbvie, Biogen, Checkpoint, Immunobrain, Arrowhead; and 
research collaboration with Eisai and CogRX. Desi Peneva and Maria-Alice Manetas 
report grants from American Heart Association and Gates Ventures. Mireille 
Jacobson reports grants from American Heart Association, Gates Ventures; 
personal fees from expert testimony for various private clients. Dana Goldman 
reports grants from American Heart Association, Gates Ventures, Alexion, Amgen, 
Biomarin, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Arizona, Blue Cross Blue Shield of 
Massachusetts, BrightFocus, Bristol Myers Squibb, California Hospital 
Association, Cedars-Sinai Health System, Charles Koch Foundation, CommonSpirit, 
Edwards Lifesciences, Genentech, Gilead Sciences, Incyte, Johnson & Johnson, 
Lilly, National Institute on Aging, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases, Novartis, Pfizer, RA Capital, Roche; personal fees from 
Edwards Lifesciences, National Railway Labor Conference, GRAIL; equity in 
EntityRisk. Phyllis Barkman Ferrell is a retiree and minority shareholder of Eli 
Lilly & Company and reports personal fees from Davos Alzheimer’s Collaborative, 
Gates Ventures, Morningside, Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation, SiteRx, 
StartUp Health, Global Alzheimer’s Platform Foundation. Rema Raman reports 
grants from American Heart Association, Gates Ventures, Eisai, Alzheimer's 
Association. Niranjan Bose and VK Vu report no conflict of interest.


91. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;12(7):100223. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100223.  Epub 2025 Jun 12.

Dose- and pattern- physical activity is associated with lower risk of dementia.

Wang Y(1), Li F(1), Cao S(1), Jia J(2).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Clinical Research Center 
for Geriatric Diseases, Beijing 100053, China.
(2)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Clinical Research Center 
for Geriatric Diseases, Beijing 100053, China; Beijing Key Laboratory of 
Geriatric Cognitive Disorders, Beijing 100053, China; Clinical Center for 
Neurodegenerative Disease and Memory Impairment, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing 100053, China; Center of Alzheimer's Disease, Beijing Institute of Brain 
Disorders, Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain Disorders, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing 100053, China; Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
Ministry of Education, Beijing 100053, China. Electronic address: 
jjp@ccmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The amount and pattern of physical activity that benefits cognitive 
health remain unclear.
METHODS: Participants from the UK Biobank cohort who had a full week of 
accelerometer-based moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) and light 
physical activity (LPA) data were included in the analysis. The data for 
dementia diagnosis were collected from 2006 to 2024. Associations between the 
incidence of all-cause dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia 
(VaD), and PA amounts and patterns were assessed using Cox proportional hazards 
regression models. The analysis included 1) comparing MVPA gradients with 
reference group performing less than 150 min/week; 2) classifying MVPA patterns 
as effective intensive (≥300 min/week with ≥50 % of MVPA in 1-2 days), effective 
regular (≥300 min/week not up to effective intensive), and ineffective (<300 
min/week); 3) performing stratified analyses by age, sex, and APOE ε4 carrier 
status; and 4) evaluating the association between LPA and dementia risk among 
participants classified as ineffective MVPA levels.
RESULTS: 91,512 individuals (mean [SD] age, 56.03[7.8] years; 55.9 % female) 
were included. Compared with participants performing <150 min of MVPA per week, 
those accumulating 150-299 min/week, whether through concentrated (1-2 days) or 
regular pattern, did not show significantly lower dementia incidence. However, 
accumulating >300 min/week of MVPA was associated with a reduced risk. When 
stratified at 300 min/week of MVPA, hazard ratios for dementia were 0.73 (95 % 
CI: 0.60-0.89) for the weekend pattern and 0.79 (95 % CI: 0.64-0.98) for the 
regular pattern. For ineffective MVPA, engaging in >840 min/week of LPA was 
associated with lower dementia incidence.
CONCLUSIONS: Accumulating >300 min/week of MVPA, whether concentrated within 1-2 
days or distributed evenly across the week, was associated with a decreased risk 
of dementia. Additionally, higher levels of LPA partially compensated for low 
MVPA in lowering dementia risk.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100223
PMCID: PMC12321609
PMID: 40514301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing interests The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


92. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Aug;189:118232. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118232. 
Epub 2025 Jun 13.

Corrigendum to "Can ketamine therapy overcome treatment-resistant depression in 
Alzheimer's disease and older adults? Preclinical and clinical evidence" 
[Biomed. Pharmacother. 188 (2025) 118199].

Altamura M(1), Leccisotti I(2), Moretti MC(2), Bellomo A(2), Panza F(3), Cassano 
T(4), Lozupone M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical & Experimental Medicine, University of Foggia, Foggia, 
Italy. Electronic address: mario.altamura@unifg.it.
(2)Department of Clinical & Experimental Medicine, University of Foggia, Foggia, 
Italy.
(3)Cesare Frugoni" Internal and Geriatric Medicine and Memory Unit, University 
of Bari "Aldo Moro", Bari, Italy.
(4)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Foggia, Foggia, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Translational Biomedicine and Neuroscience "DiBrain", 
University of Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy.

Erratum for
    Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Jul;188:118199. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118199.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118232
PMID: 40514286


93. Life Sci. 2025 Oct 1;378:123810. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2025.123810. Epub 2025
Jun  11.

Investigation of cognitive enhancements and mechanisms of kinsenoside in APP/PS1 
mice through network pharmacology, in vivo experiments, and machine learning.

Chen Y(1), Deng Q(1), Wang C(1), Liang C(1), Shi Y(1), Liu X(2), Deng C(1), Li 
J(3), Zhang H(4), Hua Q(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences & School of Traditional Chinese Medicine & School of 
Acupuncture-Moxibustion and Tuina, Beijing University of Chinese medicine, 
Beijing 100029, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences & School of Traditional Chinese Medicine & School of 
Acupuncture-Moxibustion and Tuina, Beijing University of Chinese medicine, 
Beijing 100029, China; School of Acupuncture-Moxibustion and Tuina, Changchun 
University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun 130117, China.
(3)Medical school, Wuhan University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430000, 
China. Electronic address: lijianyu@wust.edu.cn.
(4)Medical school, Wuhan University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430000, 
China. Electronic address: jtyd8@163.com.
(5)School of Life Sciences & School of Traditional Chinese Medicine & School of 
Acupuncture-Moxibustion and Tuina, Beijing University of Chinese medicine, 
Beijing 100029, China. Electronic address: huaq@bucm.edu.cn.

AIMS: To investigate the therapeutic effects of kinsenoside on cognitive 
dysfunction in APP/PS1 transgenic mice and to explore its potential targets.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Network pharmacology was employed to identify targets of 
kinsenoside in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The Morris water maze test was 
conducted to assess the therapeutic effects of kinsenoside on cognitive 
dysfunction in APP/PS1 transgenic mice, and immunofluorescence was used to 
evaluate the impact of kinsenoside on amyloid-beta (Aβ) pathology and brain 
lymphatic structure and function. The Raybiotech GSM-CAA-4000 protein chip was 
used to detect changes in inflammatory factors. Graph convolutional network 
(GCN) analysis was applied to analyze and identify core targets from the protein 
chip results, which were then intersected with the network pharmacology 
findings, followed by molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations.
RESULTS: Network pharmacology analysis indicated that kinsenoside inhibits 
inflammation and oxidative stress signaling pathways involved in AD. The maximum 
neighborhood connectivity (MNC) algorithm identified HSP90AA1, HSP90AB1, PIK3CA, 
STAT3, IL6, and IFNγ as potential targets. In vivo mouse experiments 
demonstrated that kinsenoside has the ability to reduce Aβ plaque deposition and 
expand meningeal lymphatic vessels(mLVs), improving the glymphatic system 
drainage, which ultimately leads to improved cognitive function. This beneficial 
effect may be related to the inhibition of IFNγ by kinsenoside.
CONCLUSION: Based on preclinical data, kinsenoside shows promising potential in 
the treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2025.123810
PMID: 40513940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest. We thank the CNSknowall 
platform (https://cnsknowall.com) for providing visualization.


94. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Aug;163:108666. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108666. Epub
2025  Jun 6.

Unveiling the potential of novel natural product-based MTDLs that integrate 
cinnamamide scaffold as multifunctional agents for the treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Shaaban AE(1), Ali AR(2), Ayyad SN(3), Badria FA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura 35516, Egypt; Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Horus 
University, New Damietta 34518, Egypt.
(2)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura 35516, Egypt.
(3)Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Damietta University, New 
Damietta 34511, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura 35516, Egypt. Electronic address: faridbadria@gmail.com.

Multi-target directed ligands (MTDLs) can be an effective strategy for the 
treatment of multifactorial diseases like AD. The successful design of MTDLs has 
been achieved through the integration of multiple pharmacophores within a single 
molecule. In this context, innovative cinnamic acid MTDLs derived from natural 
products have been synthesized, targeting cholinesterases (ChEs) and monoamine 
oxidases (MAOs) as potential inhibitors. They were evaluated in vitro for the 
inhibition of AChE, BuChE, MAO-A and MAO-B. Most of the hybrids demonstrated 
promising and selective inhibition of AChE. Hybrid 16 demonstrated the highest 
inhibitory potency against AChE, BChE, MAO-A, and MAO-B, exhibiting IC50 values 
of 4.59, 13.24, 30.78 and 32.02 μM, respectively. Furthermore, hybrid 16 
demonstrated notable antioxidant activity, indicated by an IC50 value of 
12.49 μM. The proposed mechanism of action and the binding modes of hybrid 16 
were analyzed through molecular docking studies. In silico predictions of 
physicochemical parameters suggest that these hybrids would remain active 
following oral administration and possess the capability to penetrate brain 
tissue. Hybrid 16 was stable within simulated gastric and intestinal contexts 
demonstrating its potential for absorption into the bloodstream without 
significant degradation. As a result, these findings enhance the prospects of 
hybrid 16 as a multi-target therapeutic agent for AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108666
PMID: 40513452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


95. EBioMedicine. 2025 Jul;117:105805. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105805. Epub
2025  Jun 12.

Comparative performance of plasma pTau181/Aβ42, pTau217/Aβ42 ratios, and 
individual measurements in detecting brain amyloidosis.

Lehmann S(1), Gabelle A(2), Duchiron M(3), Busto G(2), Morchikh M(3), Delaby 
C(4), Hirtz C(3), Mondesert E(5), Cristol JP(6), Barnier-Figue G(7), Perrein 
F(8), Turpinat C(2), Jurici S(7), Bennys K(2); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative (ADNI).

Author information:
(1)LBPC-PPC, Université de Montpellier, INM INSERM, IRMB CHU de Montpellier, 
Montpellier, France. Electronic address: sylvain.lehmann@umontpellier.fr.
(2)Université de Montpellier, Memory Research and Resources Center, Department 
of Neurology, Inserm INM, F-34000, Montpellier, France.
(3)LBPC-PPC, Université de Montpellier, INM INSERM, IRMB CHU de Montpellier, 
Montpellier, France.
(4)LBPC-PPC, Université de Montpellier, INM INSERM, IRMB CHU de Montpellier, 
Montpellier, France; Sant Pau Memory Unit, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau 
- Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau - Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(5)LBPC-PPC, Université de Montpellier, INM INSERM, IRMB CHU de Montpellier, 
Montpellier, France; CHU de Montpellier, Hôpital Lapeyronie, Biochimie, 
Montpellier, France.
(6)CHU de Montpellier, Hôpital Lapeyronie, Biochimie, Montpellier, France.
(7)CH Perpignan, Gériatrie, Perpignan, France.
(8)CHU de Nîmes, Neurology, Nîmes, France.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2025 May 30:2024.12.07.24318640. doi: 10.1101/2024.12.07.24318640.

BACKGROUND: Early detection of brain amyloidosis (Aβ+) is crucial for diagnosing 
Alzheimer' disease (AD) and optimizing patient management, especially in light 
of emerging treatments. While plasma biomarkers are promising, their combined 
diagnostic value through specific ratios remains underexplored. In this study, 
we assess the diagnostic accuracy of plasma pTau isoform (pTau181 and pTau217) 
to Aβ42 ratios in detecting Aβ+ status.
METHODS: This study included 423 participants from the multicenter prospective 
ALZAN cohort, recruited for cognitive complaints. Aβ+ status was determined 
using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers. The confirmatory cohort comprises 
1176 patient samples from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 
(ADNI), with Aβ+ status determined by positron emission tomography (PET) 
imaging. Plasma biomarkers (pTau181, pTau217, Aβ40, Aβ42) were measured using 
immunoassays and mass spectrometry, with specific ratios calculated. In the 
ALZAN cohort, the impact of confounding factors such as age, renal function, 
ApoE 4 status, body mass index, and the delay between blood collection and 
processing was also evaluated to assess their influence on biomarker 
concentrations and diagnostic performance. The primary outcome was the 
diagnostic performance of plasma biomarkers and their ratios for detecting Aβ+ 
status. Secondary outcomes in the ALZAN cohort included the proportion of 
patients classified as low, intermediate, or high risk for Aβ+ using a 
two-cutoff approach.
FINDINGS: In ALZAN the pTau181/Aβ42 ratio matched the diagnostic performance of 
pTau217 (AUC of 0.911 (0.882-0.940) vs. 0.909 (0.879-0.939), P = 0.85). The 
pTau217/Aβ42 ratio demonstrated the highest diagnostic accuracy, with an AUC of 
0.927 (0.900-0.954). Both ratios effectively mitigated confounding factors, such 
as variations in renal function, and were also efficient in identifying Aβ+ 
status in individuals with early cognitive decline. Diagnostic accuracy of 
ratios vs. individual measurement was confirmed in the ADNI cohort. In ALZAN, 
using two-cutoff workflows with pTau217/Aβ42 instead of pTau217 alone reduced 
the intermediate-risk zone from ∼16% to ∼8%, enhancing stratification for 
clinical decision-making.
INTERPRETATION: The pTau217/Aβ42 ratio demonstrated improved diagnostic 
performance for detecting Aβ+ compared to individual biomarkers, potentially 
reducing diagnostic uncertainty. These findings suggest that plasma biomarker 
ratios could be useful; however, further validation in independent and diverse 
clinical settings is necessary before broader clinical implementation.
FUNDING: Fondation Research Alzheimer (ALZAN projet), AXA Mécénat Santé 
(INTERVAL Project), Fondation pour la Recherche Médicale (FRM, team 
Proteinopathies).

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105805
PMCID: PMC12192541
PMID: 40513421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests Consultant or Advisory 
Role: S Lehmann, Advisory Board for Roche diagnostics, Biogen, Lilly, and 
Fujirabio. A Gabelle, Advisory Board for Biogen, Lilly, and Esai. No other 
conflict of interest.


96. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Oct 15;296:117848. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117848.
Epub  2025 Jun 8.

Design of spiro-heterocyclic substituted diaminonaphthalene Keap1-Nrf2 
protein-protein interaction inhibitors as novel anti-depressant agents.

Chen Y(1), Qin Q(2), Ding W(3), Yu R(3), Wang R(3), Ji H(4), Yan J(3), Ma H(5), 
Jiang CS(6), Sun Y(7), Zhuang C(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Science and Technology, University of Jinan, Jinan 
250022, China; The Center for Basic Research and Innovation of Medicine and 
Pharmacy (MOE), School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical University, 325 
Guohe Road, Shanghai 200433, China.
(2)The Center for Basic Research and Innovation of Medicine and Pharmacy (MOE), 
School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical University, 325 Guohe Road, Shanghai 
200433, China; School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, 
Guangzhou 510006, China.
(3)The Center for Basic Research and Innovation of Medicine and Pharmacy (MOE), 
School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical University, 325 Guohe Road, Shanghai 
200433, China.
(4)School of Biological Science and Technology, University of Jinan, Jinan 
250022, China.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Ningxia Medical University, 1160 Shengli Street, Yinchuan 
750004, China.
(6)School of Biological Science and Technology, University of Jinan, Jinan 
250022, China. Electronic address: bio_jiangcs@ujn.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, China Pharmaceutical 
University, 639 Longmian Dadao, Jiangning District, Nanjing, 210009, China. 
Electronic address: bio_lunar@163.com.
(8)School of Pharmacy, Ningxia Medical University, 1160 Shengli Street, Yinchuan 
750004, China; The Center for Basic Research and Innovation of Medicine and 
Pharmacy (MOE), School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical University, 325 
Guohe Road, Shanghai 200433, China. Electronic address: zclnathan@163.com.

Oxidative stress, inflammation and the Keap1-Nrf2 pathway are validated to be 
related to depression. Theoretically, modulating Keap1 and Nrf2 protein-protein 
interaction (PPI) should be an effective method to activate Nrf2 for the 
treatment of major depressive disorders. We previously reported NXPZ-2, a 
1,4-diaminonaphthalene, as a Keap1-Nrf2 PPI inhibitor that exhibited promising 
effects in an Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse model. However, its pharmacokinetic 
properties were limited. Herein, we, for the first time, developed a series of 
heterocyclic substituted diaminonaphthalenes by an "Escape from Flatland" 
strategy to improve sp3 hybridized carbons. These compounds exhibited strong 
binding affinity for Keap1. A crystallographic analysis revealed the 
high-resolution (1.44 Å) binding of CD-10 with the Keap1 protein, elucidating 
the complexity of CD-10's binding mechanism. In an LPS-stimulated BV2 cell 
model, CD-10 demonstrated the best anti-oxidative stress and anti-inflammatory 
potential. Furthermore, CD-10's ability to penetrate the blood-brain barrier has 
been significantly improved. In a chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mouse 
model, treatment with CD-10 effectively alleviated anxiety and depressive 
behaviors and restored serum neurotransmitter levels by promoting Nrf2 nuclear 
translocation. Overall, our findings validate that the Keap1-Nrf2 PPI inhibitor 
holds promise as a preclinical candidate for the treatment of depression.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117848
PMID: 40513368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


97. Neuroimage Clin. 2025;47:103819. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2025.103819. Epub 2025
Jun  6.

Network-targeted transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) for mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI).

Taylor JL(1), Bhatt P(2), Hernandez B(3), Iv M(4), Adamson MM(5), Heath A(3), 
Yesavage JA(3), McNerney MW(6).

Author information:
(1)Sierra-Pacific Mental Illness Research Education Clinical Center (MIRECC), US 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA 
94304, USA; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford 
University, School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. Electronic address: 
joyt@stanford.edu.
(2)Sierra-Pacific Mental Illness Research Education Clinical Center (MIRECC), US 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA 
94304, USA.
(3)Sierra-Pacific Mental Illness Research Education Clinical Center (MIRECC), US 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA 
94304, USA; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford 
University, School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Division of Neuroimaging and Neurointervention, 
Stanford University Medical Center, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(5)Women's Operational Military Exposure Network Center of Excellence (WOMEN 
CoE), VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA; Department of 
Neurosurgery, Stanford University, School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(6)Sierra-Pacific Mental Illness Research Education Clinical Center (MIRECC), US 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA 
94304, USA; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford 
University, School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. Electronic address: 
windymc@stanford.edu.

BACKGROUND: Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a promising 
non-pharmacological intervention for treatment of mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI) and early Alzheimer's disease (AD). Yet, we know little about precisely 
where stimulation would be ideal to improve cognitive function.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the network functional connectivity (fc) characteristics 
of prefrontal and parietal stimulation sites, given that these sites have led to 
improved cognitive function in TMS studies involving MCI-AD and unimpaired 
participants.
METHODS: Resting-state functional MRI data were acquired from 32 MCI 
participants at the baseline visit of an ongoing TMS trial and used to compute 
connectivity with prefrontal and parietal stimulation locations, selected on the 
basis of previous TMS studies. The TMS seed maps were examined for extent of 
spatial overlap with eight canonical networks. After identifying the network 
most likely to be targeted by TMS, we applied strategies that may provide purer 
targeting. Finally, we examined network connectivity in relation to 
participants' behavioral characteristics because of the potential for TMS 
treatment to be personalized.
RESULTS: The prefrontal TMS seed map overlapped primarily with the salience 
network. The prefrontal site is also notable for its anti-correlated 
connectivity with the AD-vulnerable posterior cingulate cortex (PCC). The 
parietal TMS seed map showed the expected strong positive connectivity with the 
PCC and other default network regions. Nonetheless, this particular parietal 
site may simultaneously modulate the fronto-parietal network. Strategies to 
improve network targeting and to personalize TMS are reported as secondary 
findings.
CONCLUSION: These results can be applied to network-targeted brain stimulation 
for MCI and early AD treatment. Greater precision and personalization of TMS 
offer the promise of achieving better outcomes for individuals with MCI or mild 
AD dementia.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2025.103819
PMCID: PMC12192757
PMID: 40513355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


98. JAMA Neurol. 2025 Aug;82(8):825-836. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2025.1601. Epub 
2025 Jun 9.

White Matter Abnormalities and Cognition in Aging and Alzheimer Disease.

Peter C(1), Sathe A(1), Shashikumar N(1), Pechman KR(1), Workmeister AW(1), 
Jackson TB(1), Huo Y(2)(3), Mukherjee S(4), Mez J(5), Dumitrescu LC(1)(6)(7)(8), 
Gifford KA(1)(5), Bolton CJ(1), Gaynor LS(1), Risacher SL(9)(10), Beason-Held 
LL(11), An Y(11), Arfanakis K(12)(13)(14), Erus G(15), Davatzikos C(15), 
Tosun-Turgut D(16), Habes M(17), Wang D(18), Toga AW(19), Thompson PM(20), Zhang 
P(1)(21), Schilling KG(22)(23), Albert M(24), Kukull W(25), Biber SA(25), 
Landman BA(1)(2)(3)(8)(22)(23)(26), Bendlin BB(27), Johnson SC(27)(28), 
Schneider J(13), Barnes LL(13), Bennett DA(13), Jefferson AL(1)(6)(8), Resnick 
SM(11), Saykin AJ(9)(10), Crane PK(4), Cuccaro ML(29)(30), Hohman 
TJ(1)(6)(7)(8), Archer DB(1)(6)(7)(8); and the Alzheimer’s Disease Sequencing 
Project Phenotype Harmonization Consortium (ADSP-PHC) Analyst Team; Zaras D(1), 
Yang Y(1), Durant A(1), Kanakaraj P(2), Kim ME(2), Gao C(3), Newlin NR(2), 
Ramadass K(2)(3), Khairi NM(3), Li Z(3), Yao T(2), Choi SE(4), Klinedinst B(4), 
Lee ML(4), Scollard P(4), Trittschuh EH(31)(32), Sanders EA(4).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Memory and Alzheimer's Center, Vanderbilt University School of 
Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee.
(2)Department of Computer Science, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee.
(3)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, Tennessee.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle.
(5)Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian and Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts.
(6)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee.
(7)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, Tennessee.
(8)Vanderbilt Brain Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee.
(9)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis.
(10)Indiana Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis.
(11)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, National 
Institutes of Health, Baltimore, Maryland.
(12)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Illinois Institute of Technology, 
Chicago.
(13)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois.
(14)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois.
(15)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
(16)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, 
San Francisco.
(17)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio.
(18)University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio.
(19)Laboratory of Neuroimaging, Mark and Mary Stevens Neuroimaging and 
Informatics Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles.
(20)Imaging Genetics Center, Mark and Mary Stevens Neuroimaging and Informatics 
Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Marina 
del Rey.
(21)Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, Tennessee.
(22)Department of Radiology and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(23)Vanderbilt University Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(24)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
Maryland.
(25)National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center, University of Washington, Seattle.
(26)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, 
Tennessee.
(27)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin, Madison.
(28)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison.
(29)John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics, University of Miami, Miami, 
Florida.
(30)Dr John T. MacDonald Foundation Department of Human Genetics, University of 
Miami, Miami, Florida.
(31)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle.
(32)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Veterans Affairs Puget 
Sound Healthcare System, Seattle, Washington.

IMPORTANCE: There has yet to be a large-scale study quantifying the association 
between white matter microstructure and cognitive performance and decline in 
aging and Alzheimer disease (AD).
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the associations between tract-specific white matter 
microstructure and cognitive performance and decline in aging and AD-related 
cognitive impairment.
DESIGN SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: This prognostic study of aging and AD, a 
secondary data analysis of multisite cohort studies, acquired data from 9 
cohorts between September 2002 and November 2022. Participants were eligible if 
they had diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (dMRI) data, 
domain-specific cognitive composite z scores, demographic and clinical data, 
were aged 50 years or older, and passed neuroimaging quality control. 
Demographic and clinical covariates included age, sex, education, race and 
ethnicity, APOE haplotype status (ε2, ε3, ε4), and clinical status. The present 
study was conducted from June 2024 to February 2025.
EXPOSURES: White matter microstructure and cognitive performance and decline.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Clinical diagnosis, imaging measures (dMRI, 
T1-weighted MRI, and amyloid and tau positron emission tomography), and 
cognitive tests.
RESULTS: Of 4467 participants who underwent 9208 longitudinal cognitive 
sessions, 2698 (60.4%) were female, and the mean age (SD) was 74.3 (9.2) years; 
3213 were cognitively unimpaired, 972 had mild cognitive impairment, and 282 had 
AD dementia. White matter free water (FW) showed the strongest associations with 
cross-sectional cognitive performance and longitudinal cognitive decline across 
all domains, particularly memory. FW in limbic tracts, such as the cingulum, 
presented the strongest associations with both memory performance (cingulum: 
β = -0.718; P < .001; fornix: β = -1.069; P < .001) and decline (cingulum: 
β = -0.115; P < .001; fornix: β = -0.153; P < .001). White matter FW measures 
interacted with baseline diagnosis, gray matter atrophy, APOE ε4 status, and 
amyloid positivity to predict poorer cognitive performance and accelerated 
cognitive decline. Noteworthy interactions include fornix FW and hippocampal 
volume (β = 10.598; P < .001), cingulum FW and SPARE-AD index (β = -0.532; 
P < .001), and inferior temporal gyrus transcallosal tract FW and baseline 
diagnosis (β = -0.537; P < .001), all predicting poorer memory performance.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: White matter microstructural changes, particularly 
FW, play a critical role in cognitive decline in aging and AD-related cognitive 
impairment. These findings highlight the importance of FW correction in dMRI 
studies and highlight the limbic system, especially the cingulum and fornix, as 
key regions associated with cognitive decline; the interaction models highlight 
that integrating FW-corrected metrics with other AD biomarkers may further 
elucidate the biological mechanisms of neurodegeneration in aging.

Copyright 2025 Peter C et al. JAMA Neurology.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2025.1601
PMCID: PMC12150229
PMID: 40513084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Ms Workmeister 
reported grants from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) during the conduct 
of the study. Dr Mez reported grants from NIH during the conduct of the study. 
Dr Risacher reported grants from NIH during the conduct of the study; and stock 
from Eli Lilly outside the submitted work. Dr Davatzikos reported grants from 
NIH during the conduct of the study. Dr Albert reported grants from the National 
Institute on Aging (NIA) during the conduct of the study. Dr Kukull reported 
grants from NIA during the conduct of the study. Dr Landman reported grants from 
NIH during the conduct of the study; and personal fees from Silver Maple LLC, 
SPIE, and Coursera outside the submitted work. Dr Bendlin reported grants from 
NIH during the conduct of the study; and personal fees from New Amsterdam, 
Cognito Therapeutics, Merry Life Biomedical, Rush Alzheimer’s Disease Center, 
and Emory Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center and an advisor grant from Weston 
outside the submitted work. Dr Johnson reported grants from NIH during the 
conduct of the study; and personal fees for serving on advisory boards for 
Enigma Biomedical and ALZPath outside the submitted work. Dr Schneider reported 
grants from NIA during the conduct of the study. Dr Jefferson reported grants 
from NIA, Alzheimer’s Association, and NIH during the conduct of the study. Dr 
Saykin reported grants from NIH during the conduct of the study. Dr Hohman 
reported grants from NIH during the conduct of the study; and personal fees from 
Vivid Genomics, serving as senior associate editor for Alzheimer’s & Dementia, 
and serving as deputy editor for Alzheimer’s & Dementia: Translational Research 
& Clinical Interventions outside the submitted work. Dr Li reported grants from 
NIA during the conduct of the study; and student stipends from the Rochester 
Institute of Technology outside the submitted work. No other disclosures were 
reported.


99. Cell Rep. 2025 Jun 24;44(6):115801. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2025.115801. Epub
2025  Jun 11.

The amyloid precursor family of proteins in excitatory neurons are essential for 
regulating cortico-hippocampal circuit dynamics in vivo.

Harris SS(1), Rajani RM(2), Zünkler J(3), Ellingford R(3), Yang M(3), Rowland 
JM(3), Schmidt A(4), Lee BI(3), Kehring M(3), Hellmuth M(3), Lam FKW(3), Fässler 
D(5), Erdinger S(5), Wolfer DP(6), Sala Frigerio C(3), Wolf F(4), Hyman BT(7), 
Müller UC(5), Busche MA(8).

Author information:
(1)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London, UK. 
Electronic address: samuel.harris@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London, UK; 
British Heart Foundation - UK Dementia Research Institute Centre for Vascular 
Dementia Research at The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(3)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London, UK.
(4)Göttingen Campus Institute for Dynamics of Biological Networks, Göttingen, 
Germany.
(5)Department of Functional Genomics, Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular 
Biotechnology, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)Institute of Anatomy, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; Institute of 
Human Movement Sciences and Sport, ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(7)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Charlestown, MA, USA.
(8)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London, UK; 
Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, University Hospital of Geriatric 
Medicine FELIX PLATTER and University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; Department 
of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
m.busche@ucl.ac.uk.

The amyloid precursor protein (APP) family is ubiquitously expressed in the 
mammalian brain and implicated in Alzheimer's disease. APP family proteins 
participate in synaptic function and their absence impairs cognition. However, 
how these proteins regulate neural circuits and influence brain-behavior 
relationships remains unknown. Using in vivo two-photon Ca2+-imaging and 
Neuropixels, we show that APP family knockout (KO) in excitatory neocortical and 
hippocampal neurons suppresses neuronal dynamics across behavioral states, and 
results in an increased proportion of low-activity and silent neurons. Further, 
APP family KO leads to a reduction in synapses expressing the requisite 
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunit GluN1, with pharmacological 
enhancement of NMDAR function normalizing aberrant dynamics in low-activity 
neurons and rectifying behavioral impairments. Suppressing NMDAR function in 
control mice replicates the functional phenotype observed in APP family KOs. Our 
findings indicate a physiological role for the APP family in regulating and 
sustaining spontaneous neuronal activity in cortico-hippocampal circuits in 
vivo.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2025.115801
PMCID: PMC12309856
PMID: 40512617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests B.T.H. owns stock in 
Novartis; he serves on the scientific advisory board of Dewpoint and has an 
option for stock. He serves on a scientific advisory board or is a consultant 
for AbbVie, Alexion, Ambagon, Aprinoia Therapeutics, Arvinas, Avrobio, 
AstraZeneca, Biogen, BMS, Cure Alz Fund, Cell Signaling, Dewpoint, Latus, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, Sofinnova, Vigil, Violet, Voyager, and WaveBreak. His 
laboratory is supported in part by a sponsored research agreement from Abbvie. 
C.S.F. is currently employed by GSK.


100. Discov Nano. 2025 Jun 13;20(1):93. doi: 10.1186/s11671-025-04276-w.

Nose to brain delivery of nanostructured lipid carriers loaded with rivastigmine 
and nilotinib for treating Alzheimer's disease: preparation, cell line study, 
and in vivo evaluation.

Khan SA(1), Qamar Z(1), Kamboj S(2), Moonis M(3), Rai G(4), Dang S(4), Singh 
PP(5), Alam O(6), Parvez S(7), Baboota S(1), Ali J(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, Hamdard Nagar, New Delhi, 110062, India.
(2)Formulation Development, Pharmascience, Candiac, QC, Canada.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, 110062, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Jaypee Institute of Information Technology, 
Noida, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201309, India.
(5)Tirupati Innovation Center, Tirupati Group, Paonta Sahib, 173025, India.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Pharmaceutical Education 
and Research, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, 110062, India.
(7)Department of Medical Elementology and Toxicology, School of Chemical and 
Life Sciences, New Delhi, 110062, India.
(8)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, Hamdard Nagar, New Delhi, 110062, India. javedaali@yahoo.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative that affects over 55 
million people worldwide, a number expected to double by 2050 due to aging 
populations. This growing prevalence imposes immense societal and economic 
burdens on healthcare systems and caregivers. AD is challenging to treat with 
monotherapy, making combination therapy a more effective approach. This study 
focuses on delivering Rivastigmine tartrate (RIV), and Nilotinib hydrochloride 
monohydrate (NIL), to the brain to achieve synergistic effects against AD. The 
optimal ratio of the drug combination was determined using the combination index 
that was performed using the Neuro2a cells line. It was found to be 1:1, 
emphasizing the synergistic effect against the cell lines. So, nanostructured 
lipid carriers (NLCs) were loaded with RIV and NIL, both individually and in 
combination, developed and optimized in this study. The developed formulations 
were thoroughly characterized for globule size, polydispersity index (PDI), and 
entrapment efficiency (EE) for each drug and the combination. The globule size 
was > 200 nm, PDI > 0.3; EE < 85% in all the developed formulations. On 
performing an in vitro cell availability study it was found that developed NLCs 
showed a 1.3 to 1.4-fold increase in the viability of the cells. On conducting 
an in vivo study, the concentration in the brain following administration of 
different formulations was in the order of 
RIV-NIL-NLC > NIL-NLC > RIV-NLC > RIV-NIL SUS > NIL-SUS > RIV-SUS. There was a 
3.5 to 5-fold increase in the concentration of RIV and NIL in the brain when 
administered as RIV-NIL-NLC. So, it can be concluded that the NLCs with combined 
drugs showed promising results, enhancing drug permeability through the 
intranasal route, therefore could be used for treating AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s11671-025-04276-w
PMCID: PMC12165938
PMID: 40512424

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Institutional review board statement: The animal 
study protocol was permitted by the Institutional Animal Ethical Committee 
(IAEC) (Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, India).