1. J Neurovirol. 2025 Aug;31(4):305-332. doi: 10.1007/s13365-025-01265-8. Epub
2025  Jul 7.

Herpesvirus initiation of dementias and autoimmune diseases.

Roe K(1).

Author information:
(1)Retired, United States Patent and Trademark Office, San Jose, CA, USA. 
kevin.roe@att.net.

Several viral, bacterial, fungal, and protozoan parasite pathogens are capable 
of causing either active and/or latent chronic infections, particularly if they 
are highly immuno-evasive. The nine human herpesviruses are among the most 
evasive pathogens. They can remain latent for decades, but can periodically 
reactivate into active chronic infections after various triggers: medical 
treatments causing intentional or unintentional immune system suppression, other 
pathogen infections, malnutrition, stress, or unusual host cell signaling. 
Various neurological disorders including dementias and severe autoimmune 
diseases have been linked to highly prevalent human herpesvirus infections 
including herpes simplex type 1 and 2, varicella-zoster virus, Epstein-Barr 
virus, human cytomegalovirus, and herpesviruses 6A, 6B, 7 and 8. For example, 
dementias including Alzheimer's disease have been extensively linked to herpes 
simplex type 1 and 2, and herpesvirus 6A and 7, but other herpesviruses may be 
indirectly involved in dementias. For instance, recent evidence strongly 
suggests dementias can result from reactivated varicella-zoster herpes virus 
infections, whereas effective vaccinations against varicella-zoster herpes virus 
reactivations to avoid shingles have also shown significant reductions in 
dementia probabilities for vaccinated individuals. This raises questions about 
how various herpesviruses can initiate or enable neurological diseases including 
dementias and autoimmune diseases, and how their infections and particularly 
their reactivations from latency can initiate these diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Journal of NeuroVirology, 
Inc.

DOI: 10.1007/s13365-025-01265-8
PMID: 40622506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: The author 
confirms that the ethical policies of the journal, as noted on the journal’s 
author guidelines page, have been adhered to. No ethical approval was required 
as this is a review article with no original research data. Conflict of interest 
statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


2. Microbiol Spectr. 2025 Aug 5;13(8):e0017825. doi: 10.1128/spectrum.00178-25. 
Epub 2025 Jul 7.

Clostridium butyricum enhances cognitive function in APP/PS1 mice by modulating 
neuropathology and regulating acetic acid levels in the gut microbiota.

Shiqing Y(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Xinjie L(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Xiaotong Z(1)(2)(3)(4), 
Jiayan C(1)(2)(3)(4), Jiahai L(1)(2)(3)(4), Xiaodong C(5), Yongliang 
L(1)(2)(3)(4), Xiang L(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Wenzhou Key Laboratory of Sanitary Microbiology, Wenzhou Medical University, 
Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Institute of One Health, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, 
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine, Ministry of Education, Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(4)School of Laboratory Medicine and Life Sciences, Wenzhou Medical University, 
Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Linyi Women & Children's Healthcare Hospital, The 
First Affiliated Hospital of Shandong Medical College, Linyi, Shandong, China.
(#)Contributed equally

The amyloid deposition-to-cognitive impairment pathway is crucial in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) pathogenesis, with gut microbes influencing its development. Our 
study evaluated Clostridium butyricum MIYAIRI 588 (CBM588) as a potential AD 
treatment. In APP/PS1 mice, CBM588 improved cognitive function and alleviated 
colonic tissue pathology by modulating tight junction proteins (upregulating 
Claudin 1, ZO-1, and Occludin) and reducing inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-1β, 
and TNF-α mRNA). It also reduced Aβ plaque deposition in the brain, regulated 
the JNK/CDK5/GSK-3β pathway to inhibit Tau hyperphosphorylation, and maintained 
neuronal integrity by downregulating Bax/Bcl-2 and inflammatory cytokines, 
thereby inhibiting apoptosis. While not altering the overall gut flora 
structure, CBM588 increased acetate-producing bacteria and decreased 
pro-inflammatory genera, reducing lipopolysaccharide levels. It also elevated 
short-chain fatty acids, particularly acetate, in colonic feces and brain 
tissue. Sodium acetate further inhibited BV2 cell apoptosis by suppressing 
JAK/STAT signaling and reducing Aβ and p-Tau expressions. In conclusion, CBM588 
holds great potential as a novel probiotic for AD control.IMPORTANCEThe current 
study underscores the pivotal role of gut microbiota modulation in the treatment 
of Alzheimer's disease(AD). Our comprehensive evaluation of CBM588 demonstrates 
its remarkable potential to ameliorate cognitive impairment in APP/PS1 mice by 
modulating gut microbiota composition, upregulating short-chain fatty acids, 
particularly acetate, and mitigating neuroinflammation. These findings not only 
provide novel insights into the gut-brain axis in AD but also offer a promising 
therapeutic strategy, highlighting the importance of targeting gut microbiota in 
future AD research and interventions.

DOI: 10.1128/spectrum.00178-25
PMCID: PMC12323352
PMID: 40621927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


3. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70460. doi: 10.1002/alz.70460.

Synthetic control methods for n-of-1 and parallel-group trials in Alzheimer's 
disease: A proof-of-concept study using the I-CONECT.

Wu CY(1), Chen L(1), Dickson JR(1), Zhang B(2), Arnold SE(1), Dodge HH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Charlestown, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

INTRODUCTION: With the advent of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-modifying and 
symptomatic treatments of demonstrated efficacy, enrolling participants as 
concurrent placebo controls in trials can become increasingly difficult. 
Synthetic controls have been proposed as a viable alternative to concurrent 
control groups, but their feasibility and reliability remain untested in AD 
studies.
METHODS: I-CONECT trial, which evaluates conversational interactions on 
cognition, was used to test synthetic control methods. Data from the National 
Alzheimer's Coordinating Center-Uniform Data Set was used to create 
synthetic-controls for I-CONECT participants using two methods: 1) case mapping 
and 2) case modeling. Efficacy estimates were compared between original versus 
synthetic-controlled trials.
RESULTS: In parallel-group designs, treatment effect sizes for the primary 
outcome were closely aligned between the original trial (β = 1.67) and synthetic 
control analyses (β = 1.40-1.65). For n-of-1 designs, the two methods showed 
high agreement in identifying treatment responders (Kappa = 0.75-0.82).
DISCUSSION: Synthetic control methods are feasible and reliable to create 
alternative controls in AD studies.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT02871921.
HIGHLIGHTS: Synthetic control methods are feasible and suitable for evaluating 
treatment effects in various trial designs such as n-of-1, single-arm, and 
parallel groups. Synthetic control methods can help replicate early-phase 
Alzheimer's trials, informing go/no-go decisions for larger-scale studies. The 
choice of similarity algorithms is critical as it affects the quality of 
historical case mapping. The National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center-Uniform 
Data Set (NACC-UDS) provided an ideal pool for identifying historical cases with 
similar demographic, biological, and social characteristics to participants in 
trials, enabling the creation of synthetic control groups for Alzheimer's 
clinical research.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70460
PMCID: PMC12230867
PMID: 40621876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C.Y.W., J.R.D., L.C., B.Z., S.E.A., and H.H.D. 
have no declarations of interest directly related to the contents of the work 
presented herein. J.R.D. has previously served on a scientific advisory board 
for I‐MAB Biopharma. S.E.A. reports receiving institutional grant or sponsored 
research support from the Alzheimer's Association, Alzheimer Drug Discovery 
Foundation, Challenger Foundation, John Sperling Foundation, National Institutes 
of Health, Prion Alliance, AbbVie, Amylyx, Athira Pharma, Eli Lilly, Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals, Janssen Pharmaceutical/Johnson& Johnson, MarvelBiome, Novartis 
AG, Seer Bioscience; and payments for consulting and/or participation on 
scientific advisory boards for Allyx Therapeutics, BioVie Pharma, Bob's Last 
Marathon, Cassava Sciences, Cortexyme/Quince Therapeutics, EIP Pharma/CervoMed, 
Foster & Eldredge, Jocasta Neuroscience, Merck, Sage Therapeutics, and Vandria. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


4. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025 Jul 4. doi: 10.2174/0115672050368798250626075628. 
Online ahead of print.

Comprehending Alzheimer's Disease: Molecular Mechanisms and Treatment 
Strategies.

Rathee S(1)(2), Pandey V(2), Soni S(2), Sen D(2), Jain SK(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences (COPS), School of Health Sciences, 
Dayananda Sagar University, Devarakaggalahalli, Harohalli, Kanakapura Road, 
Ramanagara Dt., Bengaluru-562112, India.
(2)Pharmaceutics Research Projects Laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Dr. Harisingh Gour Vishwavidyalaya, Sagar (M.P.) 470003, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder and a growing 
global health challenge, driven by increasing life expectancy and an aging 
population. This review provides a comprehensive exploration of AD 
pathophysiology, integrating current hypotheses such as the amyloid cascade, tau 
protein pathology, cholinergic dysfunction, neuroinflammation, vascular 
contributions, and potential infection-related mechanisms. The multifactorial 
etiology of AD, encompassing genetic predispositions and environmental factors, 
underscores its intricate nature. This study delves into the diagnostic 
advancements, including the identification and utilization of biomarkers for 
early detection and disease monitoring. Therapeutic approaches are critically 
evaluated, highlighting anti-amyloid and anti-tau strategies, alongside emerging 
innovations in stem cell therapy and nanobiotechnology. A detailed examination 
of clinical trials offers insights into the achievements and setbacks of 
translating research into effective treatments. By synthesizing epidemiological 
trends, molecular mechanisms, and therapeutic developments, this review aims to 
advance our understanding of AD and foster collaborative efforts to develop 
transformative solutions. It emphasizes the urgency of addressing this 
multifaceted disease, presenting a nuanced perspective on its complexity while 
illuminating future directions for research and clinical practice.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050368798250626075628
PMID: 40621760


5. Pak J Med Sci. 2025 Jun;41(6):1612-1617. doi: 10.12669/pjms.41.6.11986.

Efficacy of donepezil combined with rehabilitation training in the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Yi Y(1), Deng X(2).

Author information:
(1)Yi Yi, Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical and Pharmaceutical College, Chongqing, 400060, P.R. China.
(2)Xiaoyan Deng, Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Chongqing Medical and Pharmaceutical College, Chongqing, 400060, P.R. China.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the efficacy of donepezil combined with rehabilitation 
training for treating Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its impact on nerve growth 
factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF).
METHODS: This single center retrospective analysis was conducted at the First 
Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical and Pharmaceutical College and included 
184 patients with AD treated between January 2022 to May 2024. Of them, 92 
patients who received donepezil combined with rehabilitation training (combined 
group) were matched in a 1:1 ratio with a cohort that received donepezil alone 
(donepezil group). The treatment efficacy, cognitive function, ability to engage 
in daily living activity before and after the treatment, serum NGF and BDNF 
levels, and incidence of adverse reactions were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: The total efficacy of patients in the combined group was higher than 
that of the donepezil group (P<0.05). After the treatment, mini-mental state 
examination (MMSE) and activity of daily living (ADL) scores of patients in the 
combined group were significantly higher than in the donepezil group (P<0.05). 
In contrast, the combined treatment method was associated with considerably 
lower Alzheimer's disease assessment scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog) scores 
(P<0.05). Patients who received the combined treatment had significantly higher 
serum NGF and BDNF levels than those treated by donepezil alone (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with donepezil alone, the combination of donepezil and 
rehabilitation training is associated with significantly improved therapeutic 
effects and better serum NGF and BDNF levels.

Copyright: © Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences.

DOI: 10.12669/pjms.41.6.11986
PMCID: PMC12223732
PMID: 40621512


6. Cureus. 2025 Jun 4;17(6):e85377. doi: 10.7759/cureus.85377. eCollection 2025 
Jun.

A Systematic Review of the Efficacy and Safety of Anti-amyloid Monoclonal 
Antibodies in Alzheimer's Disease.

Chundu UC(1), Thiriveedhi SR(2), Bhatti C(3), Mupparaju JS(4), Otinashvili N(5), 
Gelishvili E(5).

Author information:
(1)Neurology, Guntur Medical College, Guntur, IND.
(2)Community Medicine, Katuri Medical College and Hospital, Guntur, IND.
(3)Family Medicine, Navjeevan Hospital Hisar, New Delhi, IND.
(4)Internal Medicine, NRI Medical College, Vijayawada, IND.
(5)Medicine, Tbilisi State Medical University, Tbilisi, GEO.

Monoclonal antibody (mAb) therapies targeting amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques have 
gained prominence over the past decade as potential disease-modifying treatments 
for Alzheimer's disease (AD), leading to major regulatory approvals and global 
debate. Nonetheless, the central question persists: does this emerging therapy 
have a justified role in the treatment protocol for AD? This systematic review 
evaluates the efficacy and safety of these agents across phase II and III 
clinical trials conducted in the past decade (2014-2024), aligning with the 
timeline when disease-modifying therapies gained momentum. A systematic search 
was performed across PubMed and the Cochrane Library to identify phase II and 
III randomized controlled trials (RCTs) conducted between January 2014 and 
December 2024. The inclusion criteria focused on studies that evaluated 
cognitive outcomes using scales such as the Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of 
Boxes (CDR-SB), Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale 
(ADAS-Cog), and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Additionally, trials 
assessing biomarkers, including CSF measures and PET imaging, were included. 
Safety outcomes, particularly amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA), were 
also systematically analyzed. Due to heterogeneity in outcome measures, a 
narrative synthesis was conducted. Sixteen RCTs met the inclusion criteria. 
Lecanemab reduced amyloid burden with 81% of patients achieving amyloid-negative 
PET scans (Clarity AD trial) and showed a 27% reduction in cognitive decline on 
the ADCOMS scale. While statistically significant, the 27% ADCOMS (Alzheimer's 
Disease Composite Score) reduction warrants comparison to MCID (minimal 
clinically important difference) thresholds (e.g., ~0.5-1.0 points for CDR-SB in 
early AD) to assess real-world impact. Donanemab demonstrated 76% plaque 
clearance and a 35% slowing in cognitive decline in early AD patients. 
Aducanumab showed dose-dependent effects on plaque clearance but had 
inconsistent cognitive outcomes and higher ARIA rates. Recent mAb trials provide 
promising evidence for disease modification in early AD stages, particularly 
with lecanemab and donanemab. However, variability in cognitive outcomes and 
safety concerns warrant cautious interpretation and long-term validation.

Copyright © 2025, Chundu et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.85377
PMCID: PMC12227895
PMID: 40621323

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


7. J Ginseng Res. 2025 Jul;49(4):348-355. doi: 10.1016/j.jgr.2025.03.011. Epub
2025  Apr 2.

Panax ginseng: A modulator of amyloid, tau pathology, and cognitive function in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Hwang J(1), Keum M(2), Choe YM(2)(3), Suh GH(2)(3), Choi HJ(2), Lee BC(3)(4), 
Kim SG(5), Kim HS(6), Yi D(7), Kim JW(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Soonchunhyang University Hospital Seoul, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Hallym University Dongtan Sacred Heart 
Hospital, 7 Keunjaebong-gil, Hwaseong, Gyeonggi, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Hallym University College of Medicine, Chuncheon, 
Gangwon, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Hallym University Hangang Sacred Heart 
Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Soonchunhyang University Bucheon Hospital, 
Bucheon, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Hallym University Dongtan Sacred Heart 
Hospital, 7 Keunjaebong-gil, Hwaseong, Gyeonggi, Republic of Korea.
(7)Institute of Human Behavioral Medicine, Medical Research Center Seoul 
National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the leading cause of dementia, is characterized by the 
presence of beta-amyloid (Aβ) plaques, tau hyperphosphorylation, and cognitive 
decline. Despite advancements in Aβ-targeting therapies, the multifaceted nature 
of AD underscores the need for complementary treatments. Panax ginseng, renowned 
for its cognitive-enhancing properties, has demonstrated potential in addressing 
AD pathology. This review systematically explores the therapeutic potential of 
P. ginseng and its bioactive ginsenosides, focusing on their effects on Aβ, tau 
proteins, and cognitive function. We summarize the findings from preclinical and 
clinical studies, highlighting neuroprotective mechanisms, such as the 
inhibition of Aβ production, enhanced Aβ clearance, and suppression of tau 
hyperphosphorylation. Research on P. ginseng and its bioactive ginsenosides has 
shown potential for improving cognitive function in AD models. Clinical studies 
further suggest its cognitive benefits in mild cognitive impairment, subjective 
memory impairment, and as adjunctive therapy in AD, with particularly pronounced 
effects in individuals lacking apolipoprotein ε4 allele. This review provides a 
comprehensive overview of the potential of P. ginseng as both a therapeutic and 
preventive agent for AD, highlighting the scientific basis for further 
exploration of P. ginseng-derived compounds to optimize their efficacy and 
clinical application.

© 2025 The Korean Society of Ginseng. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgr.2025.03.011
PMCID: PMC12223429
PMID: 40621081

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest to declare.


8. ACS Omega. 2025 Jun 16;10(25):26208-26232. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.5c00134. 
eCollection 2025 Jul 1.

New Prospects in the Inhibition of Monoamine Oxidase‑B (MAO-B) Utilizing 
Propargylamine Derivatives for the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease: A Review.

Chatzipieris FP(1), Kokkalis A(1), Georgiou N(1), Petsas E(1), Apostolou EV(1), 
Vougioukalakis GC(1), Mavromoustakos T(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Organic Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, 15771 Athens, Greece.

It is well-known that monoamine oxidase (MAO) plays a pivotal role in 
neurodegeneration and the inhibition of this enzyme can manifest antidepressant 
properties as well as have a positive impact in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's 
diseases. MAO has two isoforms: MAO-A and MAO-B. The main hMAO-B inhibitors used 
for the treatment of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, encompass a terminal 
triple bond in their structure, which provides their potency. Recently, a new 
class of inhibitors has emerged, bearing the carbon-carbon triple bond not 
necessarily at the end of the chain. In this review, the structure and 
physiological function of the MAO enzymes is discussed, the general synthetic 
procedures of propargylamines, as well as their mechanism of inhibition. 
Moreover, it is highlighted the current development and discovery of potential 
hMAO-B inhibitors from propargylamine scaffolds, showcasing their 
structure-activity relationships (SARs) with the enzyme. Conformational 
relationships' analysis is performed as well. Induced fit docking is performed, 
also, to the most potent compounds revealed in order to assess their binding 
energy and interactions with the enzyme. Finally, molecules which do not contain 
a propargylamine moiety in their structure were studied and compared against a 
known hMAO-B inhibitor, deprenyl. From the superimposition results of these 
molecules with deprenyl, as well as the interactions of the molecules with the 
amino acids of the active site of hMAO-B, it appears that these compounds have 
several similarities with deprenyl, opening new paths for the creation of novel 
molecules against Alzheimer's disease (AD).

© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.5c00134
PMCID: PMC12223828
PMID: 40620970


9. Int J Nanomedicine. 2025 Jul 2;20:8547-8565. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S526945. 
eCollection 2025.

Mesenchymal Stem Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicles: Emerging Therapies for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Chen P(#)(1)(2), Wang F(#)(2), Ling B(2), Zhu Y(1)(2), Lin H(1)(2), Huang J(1), 
Wang X(1).

Author information:
(1)The First School of Clinical Medicine, Gannan Medical University, Ganzhou, 
341000, People's Republic of China.
(2)Laboratory Medicine, First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical University, 
Ganzhou, 341000, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Neurodegenerative diseases are a group of chronic diseases characterized by a 
gradual loss of neurons that worsens over time and dysfunction. These diseases 
are extremely harmful, not only affecting the physical health of the patients, 
but also having a serious impact on their quality of life. They mainly include 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), 
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), etc. Their pathogenesis is complex, and it 
is difficult for the existing treatments to effectively slow down the 
progression of the disease. In recent years, Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs) have 
received widespread attention for their anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory and 
neuroprotective properties. In this context, MSC-derived Extracellular Vesicles 
(MSC-EVs) have demonstrated unique therapeutic potential as a cell-free 
therapeutic strategy. MSC-EVs are rich in bioactive substances such as proteins, 
lipids, mRNAs and miRNAs, which can pass through the blood-brain barrier and be 
targeted to the diseased area to regulate neuronal survival, synaptic plasticity 
and neuroinflammatory responses. In addition, compared with stem cell therapy, 
MSC-EVs have the advantages of low immunogenicity, easy storage and 
transportation, and avoiding ethical controversies. However, their clinical 
application still faces challenges: standardized isolation and purification 
techniques have not been unified, vesicle loading efficiency and targeting need 
to be further optimized, and long-term safety needs to be systematically 
evaluated. This review focuses on the role of MSC-EVs in the development of 
neurological diseases and explores their possible dual roles, both favorable and 
unfavorable, in the context of neurological diseases. In addition, this review 
provides a review of current studies on EVs as potential biomarkers for the 
diagnosis and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases and provides a 
comprehensive review of the prospects and challenges of MSC-EVs in clinical 
applications.

© 2025 Chen et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S526945
PMCID: PMC12229161
PMID: 40620684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


10. Brain Commun. 2025 Jun 19;7(4):fcaf249. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf249. 
eCollection 2025.

Cerebral blood flow is associated with plasma and PET biomarkers of tau 
pathology in middle age.

Houck AL(1)(2)(3), Alshikho MJ(1)(2)(3), Lao PJ(1)(2)(3), Pyne JD(1)(2)(3), 
Turney IC(4), Mazen J(1)(2)(3), Benavides A(1)(2)(3), Hale C(1)(2)(3), Herman 
M(1)(3), Berroa J(1)(2)(3), Edwards NC(1)(2)(3), Gutierrez J(3), Simoes S(1)(3), 
Manly JJ(1)(2)(3), Brickman AM(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NY 
10032, USA.
(2)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Epidemiology & Population Sciences, National Institute on 
Aging, National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

Cerebrovascular dysfunction is associated with risk and progression of 
Alzheimer's disease, but the extent to which it promotes Alzheimer's 
pathophysiology is unclear. Understanding the relationship between 
cerebrovascular dysfunction and Alzheimer's disease markers in midlife is 
critical to inform our understanding of the earliest manifestations of the 
disease and prevention strategies. We examined the association of cerebral blood 
flow with two biomarkers of tau pathophysiology, plasma phosphorylated tau 181 
(p-tau181) concentrations and tau PET MK6240 standard uptake value ratio. This 
was a cross-sectional study of participants in the Offspring Study in upper 
Manhattan. Analyses included arterial spin labelling MRI, plasma p-tau181 
concentration and 18F-MK-6240 tau PET data in the entorhinal cortex. Four 
hundred and fifty-nine participants (54.8 ± 10.8 years old, 63.3% women) had 
available MRI and plasma p-tau181 data, and 98 (60.4 ± 5.8 years old, 61.2% 
women) had additional tau PET data. Lower cerebral blood flow was associated 
with both higher plasma p-tau181 concentration and entorhinal cortex tau 
standard uptake value ratio. Higher plasma p-tau181 levels were associated with 
small clusters of lower regional cerebral blood flow, primarily in regions that 
correspond to sites of early Alzheimer's disease pathology. Higher tau PET 
levels were associated with lower cerebral blood flow throughout the brain. 
These findings suggest that there is relationship between cerebral blood flow 
and indicators of tau pathophysiology in middle age that is likely 
bidirectional.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf249
PMCID: PMC12226452
PMID: 40620471

Conflict of interest statement: A.M.B. has consulting/advising arrangements with 
Cogstate, Cognito Therapeutics, Tau Biosciences, CogniScreen IQVIA, and 
Cognition Therapeutics. A.M.B. is an inventor a patent for white matter 
hyperintensity quantification (US Patent US9867566B2), serves on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board for University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, and is a section 
editor for Alzheimer’s & Dementia.


11. J Diabetes Metab Disord. 2025 Jul 4;24(2):160. doi:
10.1007/s40200-025-01663-z.  eCollection 2025 Dec.

The expanding role of semaglutide: beyond glycemic control.

Zarei M(1), Sabetkasaei M(1), Mozafari M(2), Zaeri S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Evin, Daneshjou Blvd, Koudakyar Ave, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, 
Iran.

Semaglutide, a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1RA), has 
transformed the treatment landscape for type 2 diabetes and obesity due to its 
robust efficacy and wide-ranging therapeutic benefits. This review outlines 
semaglutide's diverse mechanisms of action, including its roles in glucose 
homeostasis, weight reduction, and cardiovascular protection. Data from the 
SUSTAIN and PIONEER clinical trials demonstrate significant reductions in HbA1c, 
body weight, and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), firmly establishing 
semaglutide as a key agent in diabetes management. The STEP trials further 
highlight its exceptional effectiveness in weight control, with participants 
achieving up to 20% weight loss alongside improvements in obesity-related 
comorbidities. Moreover, ongoing studies such as the FOCUS trial are 
investigating its impact on microvascular complications. Beyond glycemic 
control, semaglutide exhibits renoprotective, anti-inflammatory, and potential 
hepatoprotective effects. Emerging evidence also supports its expanding role in 
the management of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), heart failure, 
polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), alcohol use 
disorder (AUD), and Alzheimer's disease. While gastrointestinal side effects are 
the most commonly reported adverse events, long-term studies affirm its overall 
safety and tolerability. The availability of both subcutaneous and oral 
formulations further enhances treatment adherence and accessibility. As a 
result, semaglutide has emerged as a cornerstone therapy for a broad spectrum of 
metabolic, cardiovascular, and neuroendocrine disorders. Future research should 
continue to explore its therapeutic potential in under-studied populations, 
including individuals with non-diabetic cardiovascular disease and hepatic 
fibrosis.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) 
holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the 
author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted 
manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such 
publishing agreement and applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s40200-025-01663-z
PMCID: PMC12227398
PMID: 40620322

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no 
competing interests.


12. Balkan Med J. 2025 Jul 1;42(4):329-338. doi: 
10.4274/balkanmedj.galenos.2025.2025-2-93.

Tau Pathology in the Medial Temporal Lobe and Neocortex: Implications for 
Cognitive Unimpaired in Cognitively Unimpaired Older Adults.

Demirsoy İ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, California, USA.
(2)Department of Computer Engineering, Uşak University, Uşak, Türkiye.

BACKGROUND: The accumulation of proteins such as amyloid-beta and tau, which 
disrupt normal cellular processes, characterizes Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Cognitive decline is strongly linked to tau pathology, which initially manifests 
in the medial temporal lobe (MTL).
AIMS: To investigated the association between cognitive performance and regional 
tau accumulation, as measured by positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, in 
cognitively normal older adults. Understanding this relationship is critical for 
early intervention before noticeable cognitive decline emerges.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective study.
METHODS: Tau PET scans were conducted on 440 participants enrolled in the 
anti-amyloid treatment in asymptomatic Alzheimer's (A4) study. The participants, 
aged 65-85, were cognitively unimpaired and had complete demographic and genetic 
profiles. Tau levels in the MTL and temporal neocortex (NEO) was quantified 
using composite metrics. Cognitive function was evaluated using the preclinical 
Alzheimer's cognitive composite (PACC) and its individual components. Multiple 
linear regression models were applied to determine the associations between tau 
burden and cognitive outcomes, including interaction terms to evaluate the 
moderating roles of sex and apolipoprotein E (APOE)-ε4 genotype.
RESULTS: The average participant age was 71.8 years (standard deviation = 4.84), 
with females comprising 58% of the sample. Greater tau accumulation in both 
tauMTL and tauNEO regions was significantly associated with lower cognitive 
scores. Specifically, reduced PACC scores (p < 0.001) corresponded with higher 
tau levels in both regions, primarily influenced by declines in Delayed Logical 
Memory and Free and Cued Selective Reminding test scores. Additionally, tauNEO 
levels were modestly linked to Mini-Mental State Examination scores. The effects 
of sex and APOE-ε4 status were minimal.
CONCLUSION: Elevated tau deposition in the MTL and NEO is associated with 
diminished cognitive function, particularly in memory and processing speed 
domains. Notably, tau accumulation in the MTL showed a strong association with 
poorer outcomes on memory-related cognitive measures. The limited influence of 
sex and APOE-ε4 genotype highlights tau pathology as a key contributor to early 
cognitive decline in preclinical AD.

DOI: 10.4274/balkanmedj.galenos.2025.2025-2-93
PMCID: PMC12240214
PMID: 40619807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


13. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Sep 3;16(17):3312-3322. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00329. Epub 2025 Jul 6.

Dual Inhibition of IDO1 and TDO: A Unified Therapeutic Strategy to Combat 
Alzheimer's Disease and Cancer.

Khamle AR(1), Panda SK(2), Kore VD(1), Mukherjee S(3), Sen Gupta PS(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biosciences and Bioengineering, D Y Patil International University 
(DYPIU), Akurdi 411044, Pune, Maharashtra, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Texas at Arlington, 
Arlington, Texas 76013, United States.
(3)Integrative Biochemistry and Immunology Laboratory (IBIL), Department of 
Animal Science, Kazi Nazrul University, Asansol 713340, West Bengal, India.

The kynurenine pathway, regulated by the enzymes indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 
(IDO1) and tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase (TDO), plays a pivotal role in immune 
regulation and neuroinflammation in human. Dysregulation of this pathway has 
been strongly associated with the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and 
various cancers. In this study, we present a comprehensive computational 
investigation to identify potential dual inhibitors of IDO1 and TDO, aiming to 
simultaneously target the molecular mechanisms underlying these two devastating 
conditions. A natural compound library was subjected to an integrated screening 
approach involving virtual screening, ADMET profiling, and molecular dynamics 
simulations. Our analysis identifies hydroxy sanguinarine, chelirubine, 
17-decarboxy-neobitanin, and epicatechin-5-O-glucuronide as the potent leads 
that exhibited strong binding affinity, favorable pharmacokinetic properties, 
and stable protein-ligand interactions with both the enzymes. Dual inhibition of 
IDO1 and TDO is proposed to restore immune surveillance in cancer while 
mitigating neurodegenerative processes in Alzheimer's disease via modulation of 
the kynurenine pathway. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt 
exploring the dual targeting of IDO1 and TDO as a unified therapeutic strategy 
for combating both Alzheimer's disease and cancer. These findings would provide 
information for future experimental validation and the development of innovative 
multitarget therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00329
PMID: 40619751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Pharm Nanotechnol. 2025 Jul 3. doi: 10.2174/0122117385383438250526063154.
Online  ahead of print.

Exosomes as Next-Generation Carriers for Brain Drug Delivery: Engineering, 
Formulation, Characterization, and Neurotherapeutic Applications.

D V(1), T E(2), Ponnusamy S(3), R D(4), Philip AE(5).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutics, K. K College of Pharmacy, The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R Medical 
University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Pharmaceutics, Pannai College of Pharmacy, The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R Medical 
University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Pharmaceutics, SSM College of Pharmacy, The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R Medical 
University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, FEAT, Annamalai University, Chidambaram-608002, Tamil 
Nadu, India.
(5)Pharmacy Practice, K. K. College of Pharmacy, The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R 
Medical University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.

BACKGROUND: Exosomes, nanoscale extracellular vesicles, have emerged as 
promising drug delivery carriers due to their ability to cross the blood-brain 
barrier (BBB) and deliver therapeutic cargo efficiently. Their biocompatibility 
and capacity for engineering make them ideal candidates for treating 
neurological disorders.
METHODS: This review examines various strategies for exosome engineering, 
including donor cell selection, isolation techniques, and cargo loading methods. 
Key characterization techniques such as nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), 
dynamic light scattering (DLS), electron microscopy, and biomarker profiling are 
discussed. Additionally, in-vitro and in-vivo models used to evaluate exosome- 
mediated drug delivery efficacy are analyzed.
RESULTS: Exosomes have demonstrated significant potential in neurotherapeutic 
applications, including targeted drug delivery for neurodegenerative diseases 
such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, glioblastoma therapy, and neural 
repair in stroke models. Clinical studies and experimental models confirm their 
ability to encapsulate and protect therapeutic molecules, enhance drug 
stability, and ensure precise targeting. However, challenges such as large-scale 
production, reproducibility, and safety concerns remain.
CONCLUSION: Exosomes represent a transformative approach to overcoming 
BBB-related drug delivery challenges, providing a natural, non-invasive platform 
for neurological therapies. Advances in engineering techniques and 
characterization will be critical to optimizing their therapeutic potential and 
clinical translation.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0122117385383438250526063154
PMID: 40619660


15. Recent Adv Drug Deliv Formul. 2025 Jul 3. doi: 
10.2174/0126673878361646250623062415. Online ahead of print.

Next-Generation Phospholipid Nanocomplexes for Precision Neurotherapeutics: 
Harnessing Endogenous Blood-Brain Barrier Transport Mechanisms to Revolutionize 
the Treatment of Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Jaitawat DPS(1), Singh I(2), Chauhan SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Amity University, Centre of Industrial Pharmacy, Amity Institute of Pharmacy, 
Noida, India.
(2)Amity University, Centre of Pharmaceutics, Amity Institute of Pharmacy, 
Noida, India.

The treatment of neurodegenerative illnesses remains a substantial problem due 
to the blood-brain barrier's restrictive nature, which restricts therapeutic 
agent penetration. Phospholipid Nanocomplexes (PNCs) have emerged as 
next-generation neurotherapeutics, utilizing natural BBB transport pathways to 
improve drug delivery. These nanocarriers, with lipid-based architectures, allow 
for receptor-mediated transcytosis, lipid raft-mediated transport, and 
adsorptive-mediated endocytosis, resulting in precise and sustained drug release 
inside the central nervous system. Recent preclinical and clinical studies have 
shown that PNC-based formulations of neurotrophic factors, antioxidants, and 
gene-silencing therapies significantly improve neuronal survival, cognitive 
function, and neuroprotection in conditions like Alzheimer's Disease (AD), 
Parkinson's Disease (PD), Glioblastoma (GBM), and multiple sclerosis. Despite 
the positive outcomes, issues such as scalability, long-term safety, and 
regulatory approval remain. This study critically assesses the present status of 
PNC-based neurotherapeutics, emphasizing their benefits over traditional 
therapies, analyzing the most recent clinical trial outcomes, and assessing 
difficulties and future prospects. To improve PNC effectiveness, the potential 
for artificial intelligence-driven medication design, multifunctionalized 
nanocarriers, and hybrid biomaterial methods is investigated. As biocompatible 
and patientspecific nanomedicine advances, PNCs represent a breakthrough 
approach to precision neuroscience, providing tailored, efficient, and safer 
therapies for neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0126673878361646250623062415
PMID: 40619654


16. Home Healthc Now. 2025 Jul-Aug 01;43(4):197-205. doi: 
10.1097/NHH.0000000000001366. Epub 2025 Jul 7.

Exploring Interprofessional Collaboration and Patient-Centered Care for People 
Living With Dementia.

Campbell JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Jessica Lynn Campbell, MSN, APRN, FNP-C, Simmons University, Boston, 
Massachusetts.

Alzheimer's disease and other dementias are expected to affect millions of 
individuals in the coming decades, placing a growing burden on healthcare 
systems, families, and caregivers. Current approaches to dementia care are often 
fragmented, marked by poor coordination and limited communication among 
healthcare providers. This lack of integration contributes to delayed diagnoses, 
inadequate treatment, and heightened caregiver stress. This article emphasizes 
the critical role of inter-professional collaboration (IPC) in addressing these 
challenges and improving outcomes for people living with dementia (PLWD). 
Effective IPC involves coordinated efforts among physicians, nurse 
practitioners, nurses, home health aides, therapists, and social workers to 
deliver comprehensive, patient-centered care that meets the complex cognitive, 
physical, and psychosocial needs of PLWD. By implementing an organized, 
multidisciplinary approach, healthcare systems can not only improve quality of 
care but also reduce caregiver burden and improve the quality of life for 
individuals affected by dementia.

Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/NHH.0000000000001366
PMID: 40619622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Jul 6;20(1):80. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00869-2.

Methylome analysis of FTLD patients with TDP-43 pathology identifies epigenetic 
signatures specific to pathological subtypes.

Vicente CT(1)(2), Niranjan T(1)(2), Coopman E(1)(2), Faura J(1)(2), Alidadiani 
S(1)(2), Schrauwen C(1)(2), Matchett BJ(3)(4), Heeman B(1)(2), Van den Broeck 
M(1)(2), De Coster W(1)(2), Nguyen T(4), Lau JS(5), Baheti S(6), de Pooter 
T(7)(8), De Rijk P(7)(8), Strazisar M(7)(8), Baker M(4), DeJesus-Hernandez M(4), 
Finch NA(4)(9), Pottier C(1)(2)(10)(11), van Blitterswijk M(4), Asmann Y(12), 
Murray ME(4), Petrucelli L(4), King A(13)(14), Troakes C(13), Al-Sarraj 
S(13)(15), Rissman RA(16)(17), Hiniker A(18), Flanagan M(19), Evers BM(20), 
White CL 3rd(20), Cruchaga C(21), Castellani R(22), van Rooij JGJ(23), Mol 
MO(24), Seelaar H(23), van Swieten JC(23), Oskarsson B(25), Reichard RR(26), 
Nguyen AT(26), Josephs KA(27), Petersen RC(27), Ertekin-Taner N(4)(25), Boeve 
BF(27), Graff-Radford NR(25), Weckhuysen S(2)(28)(29), Dickson DW(4), Rademakers 
R(30)(31)(32).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(2)VIB Center for Molecular Neurology, VIB, Antwerp, Belgium.
(3)Division of Neuroscience, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
(5)Genome Analysis Core, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(6)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(7)Neuromics Support Facility, VIB Center for Molecular Neurology, VIB, Antwerp, 
Belgium.
(8)Neuromics Support Facility, Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(9)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Neuromuscular 
Division, Nashville, TN, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO, USA.
(11)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.
(12)Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
(13)Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, London Neurodegenerative 
Diseases Brain Bank, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, 
King's College London, London, UK.
(14)Department of Clinical Neuropathology, King's College Hospital NHS 
Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(15)King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(16)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, San Diego, 
CA, USA.
(17)Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA, USA.
(18)Department of Pathology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(19)University of Texas Health Science Center San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(20)Division of Neuropathology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA.
(21)Department of Psychiatry, Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, 
Washington University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO, USA.
(22)Department of Pathology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(23)Department of Neurology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(24)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(25)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
(26)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, 
USA.
(27)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(28)Department of Neurology, Antwerp University Hospital, Antwerp, Belgium.
(29)Translational Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health Science, 
University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(30)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. 
rosa.rademakers@uantwerpen.vib.be.
(31)VIB Center for Molecular Neurology, VIB, Antwerp, Belgium. 
rosa.rademakers@uantwerpen.vib.be.
(32)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA. 
rosa.rademakers@uantwerpen.vib.be.

BACKGROUND: In the last decade, the importance of DNA methylation in the 
functioning of the central nervous system has been highlighted through 
associations between methylation changes and differential expression of key 
genes involved in aging and neurodegenerative diseases. In frontotemporal lobar 
degeneration (FTLD), aberrant methylation has been reported in causal disease 
genes including GRN and C9orf72; however, the genome-wide contribution of 
epigenetic changes to the development of FTLD remains largely unexplored.
METHODS: We performed reduced representation bisulfite sequencing of matched 
pairs of post-mortem tissue from frontal cortex (FCX) and cerebellum (CER) from 
pathologically confirmed FTLD patients with TDP-43 pathology (FTLD-TDP) further 
divided into five subtypes and including both sporadic and genetic forms (N = 25 
pairs per group), and neuropathologically normal controls (N = 42 pairs). 
Case-control differential methylation analyses were performed, both at the 
individual CpG level, and in regions of grouped CpGs (differentially methylated 
regions; DMRs), either including all genomic locations or only gene promoters. 
Gene Ontology (GO) analyses were then performed using all differentially 
methylated genes in each group of sporadic patients. Finally, additional 
datasets were queried to prioritize candidate genes for follow-up.
RESULTS: Using the largest FTLD-TDP DNA methylation dataset generated to date, 
we identified thousands of differentially methylated CpGs (FCX = 6,520; 
CER = 7,134) and several hundred DMRs in FTLD-TDP brains (FCX = 134; CER = 219). 
Of these, less than 10% are shared between pathological subgroups. Combining 
additional datasets, we identified, validated and replicated hypomethylation of 
CAMTA1 in TDP-A potentially also impacting additional genes in the locus. GO 
analysis further implicated DNA methylation in myelination and developmental 
processes, as well as important disease-relevant mechanisms with subtype 
specificity such as protein phosphorylation and DNA damage repair in TDP-A, 
cholesterol biosynthesis in TDP-B, and protein localization in TDP-C.
CONCLUSIONS: We identify methylation changes in all FTLD-TDP patient groups and 
show that most changes are unique to a specific pathological FTLD-TDP subtype, 
suggesting that these subtypes not only have distinct transcriptomic and genetic 
signatures, but are also epigenetically distinct. Our study constitutes an 
invaluable resource to the community and highlights the need for further studies 
to profile additional epigenetic layers within each FTLD-TDP pathological 
subtype.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00869-2
PMCID: PMC12232778
PMID: 40619440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the University of Antwerp and Mayo 
Clinic Institutional Review Boards, and collection of tissue samples was 
approved at each participating sites by their local Institutional Review Board. 
All autopsies were obtained after consent by the legal next-of-kin or someone 
legally authorized to make this decision. Autopsies are performed with the 
explicit assumption that tissue will be used for both diagnostic evaluation and 
research. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: MDH and 
RR hold a patent on C9orf72 hexanucleotide repeat expansion screening methods. 
RR was a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of Arkuda Therapeutics, 
received consulting fees from Eli Lilly and receives invention royalties from a 
patent related to progranulin. The remaining authors declare no commercial or 
financial conflict of interest.


18. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;12(8):100266. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100266.  Epub 2025 Jul 5.

The effect of modified donanemab titration on amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities with edema/effusions and amyloid reduction: 18-month results from 
TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 6.

Wang H(1), Nery ESM(1), Ardayfio P(1), Khanna R(1), Svaldi DO(1), Shcherbinin 
S(1), Xu W(1), Andersen SW(1), Hauck PM(1), Brooks DA(1), Collins EC(1), 
Salloway S(2), Mintun MA(1), Sims JR(3).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(2)Butler Hospital, and Department of Neurology and Department of Psychiatry, 
Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.
(3)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA. Electronic address: 
sims_john_r@lilly.com.

The TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 6 study (NCT05738486) evaluated the effect of different 
donanemab dosing regimens on amyloid-related imaging abnormalities with 
edema/sulcal effusions (ARIA-E). The modified titration arm met the primary 
outcome and significantly reduced ARIA-E frequency compared with the standard 
dosing while maintaining a similar pharmacodynamic effect on amyloid reduction 
at 24 weeks. Primary outcome and 52-week data were previously published. 
Completed study results at 76 weeks are reported here. ARIA-E frequencies were 
15.6 % and 24.2 % in the modified titration and standard arms, respectively. 
ARIA-E radiographic severity was significantly lower (p = 0.015) with modified 
titration than with standard dosing. Additionally, symptomatic ARIA-E frequency 
was lower with modified titration versus standard dosing (2.8 % vs 4.8 %). The 
frequency of serious adverse events was comparable between the modified 
titration and standard dosing arms. A more gradual titration of donanemab dosing 
significantly reduced ARIA-E risk versus standard dosing. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV: 
NCT05738486.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100266
PMCID: PMC12413699
PMID: 40619285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Stephen Salloway reports a 
relationship with Biogen that includes: consulting or advisory and funding 
grants. Stephen Salloway reports a relationship with Eisai that includes: 
consulting or advisory and funding grants. Stephen Salloway reports a 
relationship with Genentech that includes: consulting or advisory and funding 
grants. Stephen Salloway reports a relationship with Roche that includes: 
consulting or advisory and funding grants. Stephen Salloway reports a 
relationship with Cognition that includes: consulting or advisory and funding 
grants. Stephen Salloway reports a relationship with Eli Lilly and Company that 
includes: consulting or advisory and funding grants. Stephen Salloway reports a 
relationship with Janssen that includes: funding grants. Stephen Salloway 
reports a relationship with Abbvie that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Stephen Salloway reports a relationship with Acumen that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Stephen Salloway reports a relationship with Alector that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Stephen Salloway reports a relationship with Biohaven 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Stephen Salloway reports a relationship 
with Fujirebio that includes: consulting or advisory. Stephen Salloway reports a 
relationship with Kisbee that includes: consulting or advisory. Stephen Salloway 
reports a relationship with LABCORP that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Stephen Salloway reports a relationship with Merck that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Stephen Salloway reports a relationship with Neurophet that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Stephen Salloway reports a relationship with NovoNordisk 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Stephen Salloway reports a relationship 
with Prothena that includes: consulting or advisory. Stephen Salloway reports a 
relationship with Quest that includes: consulting or advisory. If there are 
other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.


19. Biol Pharm Bull. 2025;48(7):972-985. doi: 10.1248/bpb.b25-00308.

Stimulation of α7 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors by PNU282987 Demonstrates 
Efferocytosis-Like Activation and Neuroprotection in Human Models of Microglia 
and Cholinergic Neurons under the Pathophysiological Conditions of Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Sueyoshi M(1), Harada K(1), Okawa M(1), Matsuhara T(1), Ando M(1), Araki R(1), 
Minote Y(1), Ishihara K(2), Shimohama S(3)(4)(5), Takata K(1).

Author information:
(1)Joint Research Laboratory, Division of Integrated Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Kyoto Pharmaceutical University, Misasagi, Yamashina-ku, Kyoto 607-8414, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Pathological Biochemistry, Division of Pathological Sciences, 
Kyoto Pharmaceutical University, Misasagi, Yamashina-ku, Kyoto 607-8414, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Sapporo Medical University, 
Sapporo 060-8543, Japan.
(4)Jiseikai Dementia Center, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 175-0045, Japan.
(5)Jiseikai Hikarigaoka Hospital, Nerima-ku, Tokyo 179-0072, Japan.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide accumulation, leading to 
neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. In early AD stages, neurodegeneration 
of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons occurs. Microglia, which are brain immune 
cells, contribute to Aβ clearance and neuroinflammation. This study investigated 
the therapeutic effects of PNU282987, a selective full agonist of α7 nicotinic 
acetylcholine receptor (nAChR), using human models of microglia (hiMacs) and 
basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (hiBFChNs), both differentiated from human 
induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs). Our findings indicated that PNU282987 
markedly enhanced Aβ phagocytosis by microglia and extracellular Aβ clearance. 
Furthermore, PNU282987 injection reduced Aβ accumulation in the brain of a mouse 
model. Treatment of hiMacs with PNU282987 upregulated the expressions of 
efferocytosis-related genes, such as ASAP2, OSM, and THBD. Efferocytosis-like 
activation by PNU282987 in hiMacs was further suggested by an increased release 
of the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 (IL-10), along with suppression 
of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β produced from microglia with Aβ 
treatment. This indicates a transformation from Aβ-induced inflammatory 
phagocytosis to an efferocytosis-like anti-inflammatory phagocytosis. PNU282987 
also exerted direct neuroprotective effects on hiBFChNs against Aβ and tumor 
necrosis factor-α. Furthermore, PNU282987 changed the extracellular contents 
released from Aβ-treated hiMacs and attenuated the neurotoxicity. These results 
suggest that α7 nAChR stimulation by PNU282987 enhances the therapeutic effects 
against AD by promoting Aβ clearance with anti-neuroinflammatory regulation in 
the microglia and providing direct protection to neurons, thereby addressing the 
inflammatory and neurodegenerative aspects of AD.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.b25-00308
PMID: 40619245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Aug;320(Pt 2):145785. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.145785. Epub 2025 Jul 5.

Targeting tau hyperphosphorylation-mediated neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's 
disease via ABL1 kinase inhibition: Insights from microsecond MD simulation and 
MM/PBSA analyses.

Choudhury A(1), Prabha S(1), Saeed MU(1), Mohammad T(1), Hussain A(2), AlAjmi 
MF(2), Khan FI(3), Islam A(1), Hassan MI(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Basic Sciences, Jamia Millia 
Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110025, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, 
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Biosciences and Bioinformatics, School of Science, Xi'an 
Jiaotong-Liverpool University, Suzhou, China.
(4)Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Basic Sciences, Jamia Millia 
Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110025, India. Electronic address: 
mihassan@jmi.ac.in.

The abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau proteins serves as the pathological 
driver in tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). The tyrosine-protein 
kinase ABL1 is among the kinases responsible for tau phosphorylation, and its 
overexpression significantly contributes to AD development. Neuroinflammation 
resulting from tau hyperphosphorylation can be prevented by developing 
therapeutic strategies that inhibit ABL1 activity. We employed cutting-edge 
computational methods to identify potential ABL1 inhibitors from the ZINC 
database. The top 1000 hits were selected after virtual screening and underwent 
numerous drug-likeness filters. Finally, ZINC08623207 and ZINC08790347 were 
selected as the potential ABL1 inhibitors based on strong affinity and 
interactions to catalytically important residues of the binding pocket with 
favorable pharmacokinetic properties. Further DFT analysis of the selected 
molecules was performed, and the stability of the protein-ligand complexes was 
examined through all-atom MD simulations of 1 μs. MM/PBSA analyses and 
per-residue binding energy contribution analysis were performed on the MD 
trajectories. The results indicated the stable complex formation of ABL1 with 
these selected molecules, thereby preventing tau hyperphosphorylation and 
subsequently implicating them in developing potential therapeutic approaches for 
neuroinflammatory diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.145785
PMID: 40618827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


21. Neural Regen Res. 2025 Jul 5. doi: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-25-00002. Online ahead
of  print.

MicroRNA and Alzheimer's disease: Diagnostic biomarkers and potential 
therapeutic targets.

Huang Y(1), Chen Y(2), He Z(3), Lu W(3), Lai H(4), Wang Y(5), Wang J(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Department of Shanghai Municipal Hospital of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Department of College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, China.
(3)Department of Chinese Medicine & Integrative Medicine, Shanghai Geriatric 
Medical Center, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(4)CAS Key Laboratory of Nutrition, Metabolism and Food Safety, Shanghai 
Institute of Nutrition and Health, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Shuguang Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(6)Department of Chinese Medicine & Integrative Medicine, Zhongshan Hospital, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs), small non-coding RNAs ranging from 19 to 25 nucleotides in 
length, are key regulators of gene expression that function primarily by 
inhibiting the translation of target mRNAs. Recent studies have suggested that 
miRNAs play important roles in regulating key aspects in the pathology of 
Alzheimer's disease, including the modulation and accumulation of amyloid-beta 
and tau proteins. Moreover, miRNAs have been implicated in the regulation of 
neuroinflammation through various inflammatory pathways, notably the nuclear 
factor kappa B signaling cascade. Additional emerging evidence has shown that 
miRNAs regulate synaptic growth and maturation, and they perform promising roles 
in regulating neuronal death and development. miRNAs also offer a novel avenue 
for direct reprogramming of neurons, representing a promising strategy for 
Alzheimer's disease treatment. The regulation of miRNA biogenesis and the 
post-transcriptional modifications of miRNAs are critical factors in Alzheimer's 
disease pathology, influencing miRNA activity and disease progression. In this 
review, we comprehensively explore the role of different miRNAs in regulating 
various pathological processes associated with Alzheimer's disease, focusing 
primarily on four representative miRNAs: miR-9, miR-29, miR-126, and miR-146a 
for further exploration. We also discuss the influence of miRNA biogenesis on 
Alzheimer's disease, emphasizing how dysregulation of miRNA processing may 
contribute to the disease. Additionally, we highlight the potential of miRNAs as 
both diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets in Alzheimer's disease, along 
with promising vector delivery strategies aimed at improving clinical outcomes. 
Finally, we discuss the challenges and limitations associated with the use of 
miRNAs in the diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease. By reviewing the 
current clinical applications of miRNAs as biomarkers and therapeutic agents, we 
aim to provide insights that will inform future research and development in this 
promising field.

Copyright © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-25-00002
PMID: 40618273


22. Neural Regen Res. 2025 Jul 5. doi: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-25-00190. Online ahead
of  print.

Interplay between brain-specific microRNAs and Alzheimer's disease.

Tinu N(1), Sharma B(1), Rodarte D(1), Lakshmanaswamy R(2)(3), Kumar S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center of Emphasis in Neuroscience, Department of Molecular and Translational 
Medicine, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center El Paso, TX, USA.
(2)L. Frederick Francis Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Texas Tech 
University Health Sciences Center El Paso, TX, USA.
(3)Center of Emphasis in Cancer, Department of Molecular and Translational 
Medicine, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center El Paso, TX, USA.

Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by 
memory decline and the accumulation of abnormal protein aggregates in the brain. 
While the precise cause of Alzheimer's disease remains under investigation, 
recent research suggests that dysregulation of brain-specific microRNAs (miRs) 
plays a significant role in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. Brain-specific 
miRs are predominantly expressed within the central nervous system and are 
crucial for neuronal development, and function, potentially in brain disorders. 
This review identifies some key brain-specific miRs in Alzheimer's disease, 
including miR-9, miR-26b, miR-34a, miR-107, miR-124, miR- 125b, miR-128, 
miR-132, miR-146a, miR-155, miR-219, miR-501-3p, and miR-502-3p. The review also 
shed light on the brain-specific location of these miRs, their dysregulation in 
Alzheimer's disease, and how they are involved in disease progression. 
Apparently, these brain-specific miRs modulate specific genes and are therefore 
crucial for various cellular processes, including autophagy, cell cycle, tau 
phosphorylation, amyloid-beta production, and neuroinflammation. Moreover, these 
miRs are potent disease-modifying factors and their expression levels could 
serve as potential biomarkers for diagnosing or monitoring Alzheimer's disease 
progression.

Copyright © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-25-00190
PMID: 40618250


23. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 5;17(1):149. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01801-y.

Predicting brain amyloid load with digital and blood-based biomarkers.

Chen W(#)(1), Liao Y(#)(2), Shi X(3), Su F(1), Kong H(1), Fang Y(1), Zheng Y(1), 
Zhou J(1), Liu G(2), Zhou X(4), Yao X(1), Ashford CB(5), Li F(6), Yang L(7), 
Bergeron MF(8), Ashford JW(9), Zhang X(10), Pei Z(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Guangdong Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Diagnosis and Treatment of Major Neurological Diseases, 
National Key Clinical Department and Key Discipline of Neurology, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510080, China.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Systems Medicine in Inflammatory Diseases, School 
of Medicine, Shenzhen Campus of Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 
China.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 510080, China.
(4)Center for Alzheimer's Research, Washington Institute of Clinical Research, 
Vienna, VA, USA; AstraNeura, Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China.
(5)MemTrax, LLC, Redwood City, CA, USA.
(6)Kunming Escher Technology Co. Ltd, Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(7)Center for Clinical Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital of Kunming 
Medical University, Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(8)Department of Health Sciences, University of Hartford, West Hartford, CT, 
USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, War Related Illness & Injury 
Study Center, VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Stanford University, Palo Alto, 
CA, USA.
(10)Department of Nuclear Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 510080, China. zhxiangs@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(11)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Guangdong Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Diagnosis and Treatment of Major Neurological Diseases, 
National Key Clinical Department and Key Discipline of Neurology, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510080, China. peizhong@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: With the recent approval of anti-β-amyloid (Aβ) treatment for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), a demand has emerged for scalable, convenient and 
accurate estimations of brain Aβ burden for the detection of AD that would 
enable timely, accurate and reliable diagnosis in one's primary care physician's 
(PCPs) office as called for recently by World Health Organization (WHO).
METHODS: MemTrax, a 2-minute online memory test, was selected as the digital 
biomarker of cognitive impairment, and blood-based biomarkers (BBMs) including 
Aβ42, Aβ40, P-tau181, GFAP and NfL were used to estimate AD-related metrics in 
different groups of elderly individuals (n = 349) for comparison with Aβ PET 
scans of brain Aβ burden. The correlations between MemTrax, MoCA, BBMs and brain 
Aβ burden, expressed in centiloid (CL) values, were analyzed for predicting CL 
value alone or in combinations using machine-learning (ML).
RESULTS: Both MemTrax and the MoCA were able to differentiate Aβ status 
similarly. Integration of MemTrax and BBMs using ML, however, significantly 
improved the AUCs (over the same with MoCA) for differentiating Aβ status. 
MemTrax and p-Tau181/Aβ42 composite showed the strongest relationship with CL 
value among other BBMs. Most importantly, regression analyses of MemTrax and 
p-Tau181/Aβ42 aptly predicted CL values.
CONCLUSION: The combination of MemTrax and BBMs provides an accurate, 
convenient, non-invasive, cost-effective and scalable way to estimate Aβ load, 
which provides an opportunity for mass screening and timely and accurate 
diagnosis of AD. Our findings could also facilitate more effective AD clinical 
management in the PCPs office worldwide for more equitable access to current 
standard of care.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01801-y
PMCID: PMC12228144
PMID: 40618175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was performed according to the Helsinki declaration of 
1975 and was approved by the ethical committee of the first Affiliated Hospital 
of Sun Yat-sen University in Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. All participants or 
guardians voluntarily signed an informed consent. Competing interests: Dr. 
Ashford developed the MemTrax test and consults with his son, Curtis B. Ashford, 
to market MemTrax commercially. Dr. Zhou worked with Dr. Ashford and Curtis 
Ashford at MemTrax LLC to develop and implement MemTrax in China, which is 
marketed commercially by SJN Biomed, where Dr. Zhou was once an executive 
director. The other authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with 
respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


24. BMJ Open. 2025 Jul 5;15(7):e098285. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-098285.

Investigating the eye in Down syndrome as a window to Alzheimer's disease: the 
REVEAL protocol - a clinical cross-sectional study.

Hunter AML(1), Atkinson S(2), Murray E(3), Saunders K(4), Peto T(5), Csincsik 
L(5), Mitchell J(6), Zetterberg H(7)(8)(9)(10), Strydom A(11), Little JA(4), 
Lengyel I(12).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Optometry and Vision Science, Biomedical Sciences Research 
Institute, Ulster University, Coleraine, UK a.hunter@ulster.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Genomic Medicine, Biomedical Sciences Research Institute, Ulster 
University, Coleraine, UK.
(3)Personalised Medical Centre, School of Medicine, Ulster University, 
Coleraine, UK.
(4)Centre for Optometry and Vision Science, Biomedical Sciences Research 
Institute, Ulster University, Coleraine, UK.
(5)Centre for Public Health, School of Medicine Dentistry and Biomedical 
Science, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(6)The Wellcome-Wolfson Institute for Experimental Medicine, School of Medicine 
Dentistry and Biomedical Science, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(7)UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology and UK Dementia Research Institute, 
University College London, London, UK.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, UK.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg Sahlgrenska Academy, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(11)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(12)Wellcome-Wolfson Institute for Experimental Medicine, QUB, Belfast, UK.

INTRODUCTION: There is a need for early, non-invasive and inexpensive biomarkers 
for Alzheimer's disease (AD), which could serve as a proxy measure in prevention 
and intervention trials that might eventually be suitable for mass screening. 
People with Down syndrome (DS) are the largest patient group whose condition is 
associated with a genetically determined increased risk of AD. The REVEAL study 
aims to examine changes in the structure and function of the eye in individuals 
with DS compared with those with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and cognitively 
healthy control (HC) individuals. REVEAL will also explore whether these changes 
are connected to inflammatory markers previously associated with AD.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The protocol describes a cross-sectional, 
non-interventional, single-centre study recruiting three cohorts, including (1) 
participants with DS (target n=50; age range, 6-60 years), (2) participants with 
MCI (target n=50; age range, 50-80 years) and (3) HC participants (target n=50; 
age range, 50-80 years). The primary research objective is to profile retinal, 
choroidal and lenticular status using a variety of eye imaging modalities and 
retinal functional testing to determine potential associations with cognitive 
status. The REVEAL study will also measure and compare established blood markers 
for AD and proteomic and transcriptomic marker profiles between DS, MCI and HC 
groups. Between-group differences will be assessed with an independent sample 
t-test and χ2 tests for normally distributed or binary measures, respectively. 
Multivariate regression analysis will be used to analyse parameters across all 
three cohorts. Data collection began in October 2023 and is expected to end in 
October 2025.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study gained a favourable opinion from Health and 
Social Care Research Ethics Committee A (REC reference 22/NI/0158; approved on 2 
December 2022; Amendment 22/0064 Amend 1, 5 April 2023; Amendment 22/0064 Amend 
2; 23 May 2024; Amendment 22/0064 Amend 3; 25 June 2024; Amendment 22/0064 Amend 
4; 16 January 2025; Amendment 22.0064 Amend 5; 9 May 2025; Amendment 22.0064 
Amend 6; 9 June 2025). The study has also been reviewed and approved by the 
School of Biomedical Sciences Research Ethics Filter Committee within Ulster 
University. Findings from the REVEAL study will be presented to academic 
audiences at international conferences and peer-reviewed publications in 
targeted high-impact journals after data collection and analysis are complete. 
Dissemination activities will also include presentations at public events.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-098285
PMCID: PMC12228435
PMID: 40617622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: AMLH, None; SA, None; EM, 
None; KS, None; TP, Unrestricted research support from Optos; LC, None; JM, 
Unrestricted PhD studentship support from Optos; HZ, has served at scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey 
Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and 
Wave, has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work); AS, AS served on advisory boards or 
as consultant for AC Immune, PRoMIS neurosciences, Alnylam and Acta. He is an 
investigator on clinical trials of AD targeting treatment sponsored by AC Immune 
and Ionis.; J-AL, none; IL, Unrestricted research support from Optos.


25. Biochem Genet. 2025 Jul 5. doi: 10.1007/s10528-025-11169-1. Online ahead of 
print.

Silencing NRBP1 Gene with shRNA Improves Cognitive Function and Pathological 
Features in AD Rat Model.

Wei X(#)(1), Liu X(#)(1), Ban Y(1), Li J(2), Huang R(3).

Author information:
(1)Imaging Center, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Xinjiang Medical University, 
Urumqi, 830010, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Xinjiang Medical 
University, 118 East Henan Road, Xinshi District, Urumqi, 830010, Xinjiang Uygur 
Autonomous Region, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Xinjiang Medical 
University, 118 East Henan Road, Xinshi District, Urumqi, 830010, Xinjiang Uygur 
Autonomous Region, China. huangrongdrmed@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative condition in the 
elderly, characterized by complex pathogenesis, and a current absence of 
specific treatment. This study aimed to investigate the effectiveness of 
silencing the NRBP1 gene using siRNA technology to improve cognitive function 
and pathological features in an AD rat model. An AD rat model was induced by 
intraperitoneal injections of D-galactose and oral AlCl3 administration over 
90 days, thus replicating early-stage AD pathology. The rats were randomly 
assigned to the Blank control (Blank), AD model (AD), AD model + shRNA negative 
control (AD + Neg), and AD model + NRBP1-shRNA groups (AD + shRNA), initiating 
experiments at 30, 60, and 90 days.Cognitive function was assessed through the 
Morris water maze test, revealing that rats in the AD + shRNA group showed 
significantly reduced latency, swim time, swim distance, and crossing times 
compared to the AD and AD + Neg groups (P < 0.05), with no significant 
difference from the Blank group. Thioflavin-S fluorescence staining demonstrated 
a significant reduction in the number, average area, and burden of plaques in 
the hippocampal tissue of the AD + shRNA group compared to the AD and AD + Neg 
groups (P < 0.05). ELISA assays confirmed a notable decrease in Aβ1-42 levels in 
the hippocampal tissue of the AD + shRNA group compared to the AD and AD + Neg 
groups (P < 0.05). Fluorescence quantitative PCR analysis revealed a significant 
downregulation of NRBP1 gene expression in the hippocampal tissue of the 
AD + shRNA group (P < 0.05).In conclusion, using siRNA to silence the NRBP1 gene 
demonstrates potential in enhancing cognitive function and reducing pathological 
features in an AD rat model. This provides preliminary evidence that justifies 
further investigation into its mechanistic and therapeutic implications.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10528-025-11169-1
PMID: 40616751

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
confirm no conflict of interest related to the manuscript. Ethical Approval: The 
animal study was approved by the Animal Ethics Committee of Xinjiang Medical 
University (IACUC20230901-12). The study was conducted in accordance with the 
local legislation and institutional requirements. Consent for Publication: Not 
applicable.


26. J Intellect Disabil. 2025 Jul 5:17446295251351508. doi: 
10.1177/17446295251351508. Online ahead of print.

Deficits and barriers in medical care of people with down syndrome and dementia: 
A scoping review.

Giebel GD(1), Raszke P(1), Weitzel M(1), Wasem J(1), Wlasich E(2), Wagemann 
O(2)(3), Nübling G(2)(3), Levin J(2)(3)(4), Schall A(5), Tesky V(5), Pantel 
J(5), Walendzik A(6), Hüer T(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Healthcare Management and Research, University of 
Duisburg-Essen, Germany.
(2)Department of Neurology, LMU University Hospital, LMU Munich, Germany.
(3)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Site Munich, Germany.
(4)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Germany.
(5)Institute of General Practice, Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University Frankfurt, 
Germany.
(6)EsFoMed Essener Forschungsinstitut für Medizinmanagement GmbH, Germany.

Introduction: People with Down syndrome (PwDS) have a substantially increased 
risk of developing Alzheimer's dementia. This can lead to challenges in medical 
care. To identify these challenges, a scoping review was conducted. Methods: The 
search consisted of a systematic database search and a structured search on 
relevant institutional websites. After inclusion, articles were reviewed for 
deficits and barriers in health care provision for PwDS and dementia. Results 
were discussed and systematized in a workshop. Results: Of 3,679 articles 
identified, 23 were included by systematic search and two by structured search. 
Finally, results were systematized in two dimensions: (1) Medical areas where 
problems occurred (diagnostics, therapy, research, and overarching issues) and 
(2) Stakeholders affected (patients, caregivers, and medical or other service 
providers). Conclusions: Since multiple deficits and barriers were identified in 
the medical care for PwDS and dementia, it is crucial to improve healthcare 
provision for this vulnerable group.

DOI: 10.1177/17446295251351508
PMID: 40616504


27. J Music Ther. 2025 Jan 10;62(1):thaf007. doi: 10.1093/jmt/thaf007.

Video Analysis of Group Music Therapy for Dementia: Intervention Delivery and 
Treatment Fidelity.

Rasing NL(1)(2), Vink AC(3), Bloska J(4), Nevruz H(5), Bakırcı T(5), Saltik 
Y(3)(5), Ucaner B(5), Dugstad Wake J(6), Sveinsdottir V(6), Geretsegger M(6), 
Gold C(6)(7), Frischen U(8), Neuser J(8), Kreutz G(8), Zuidema SU(1)(2), Janus 
SIM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary and Long-term Care, University of Groningen, University 
Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Alzheimer Center Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Gronigen,The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Music Therapy, ArtEZ University of the Arts, Enschede, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Cambridge Institute for Music Therapy Research, Anglia Ruskin University, 
Cambridge, UK.
(5)Akademik Veri Yönetim Sistemi, Ankara Haci Bayram Veli University, Ankara, 
Türkiye.
(6)NORCE Norwegian Research Centre AS, Bergen, Norway.
(7)Department of Clinical and Health Psychology, University of Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria.
(8)Carl von Ossietzky University Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany.

In the recent multinational cluster-randomized Music Interventions for Dementia 
and Depression in ELderly care trial, group music therapy (GMT) was one of two 
music-based interventions for care home residents with dementia and depressive 
symptoms received for 6 months. In this study, we assessed the quality of 
intervention delivery and treatment fidelity of video-recorded GMT sessions. A 
randomly selected sample of video recordings (n = 53) from 19 music therapists 
across five countries were analyzed by two independent raters using a fidelity 
checklist. The average session duration was 40 min with four residents 
attending. Essential session components Introduction with welcome song (90.6%), 
Song singing and reminiscence (96.2%) and Closing with a farewell song (85.4%) 
were commonly carried out, in contrast to optional components Improvisation on 
instruments (69.8%) and Movement to music (37.7%). The inter-rater agreement 
showed an assessment of checklist items related to Song singing and reminiscence 
was challenging. Twelve categories of rater comments (n = 606) were identified, 
including: clarifying coding choices, therapist-related observations, expressing 
doubt in coding, and order of components. Six categories were identified for 82 
significant moments described by the raters, including observations related to 
residents' (re)actions, interaction, music activity, music therapist, care 
staff, and disruption of session. Agreement between raters showed that it was 
feasible to provide GMT using a pre-established session structure, where music 
therapists could tailor session content to current needs of individual 
residents. Assessment of intervention delivery and treatment fidelity based on 
video-recorded sessions is challenging yet valuable for increasing understanding 
of efficacy and implementation of music-based interventions. Trial registration: 
ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03496675.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American 
Music Therapy Association.

DOI: 10.1093/jmt/thaf007
PMID: 40616479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Neurol Res. 2025 Jul 5:1-11. doi: 10.1080/01616412.2025.2528156. Online ahead
of  print.

FK506 reverses neuropathology and cognitive impairment in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice.

Zhao NN(1), Yu T(2), Zhou CM(3), Si HX(1), Hao YF(4), Li C(4), Wang H(3), Du 
Y(4), Zhang W(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, Northwest University, Xi'an, P.R. China.
(2)The Second Clinical Medical College, Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine, 
Xian Yang, China.
(3)The First Clinical Medical College, Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine, 
Xianyang, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Tangdu Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD), a chronic and progressive 
neurodegenerative disease, is the most common cause of dementia. An important 
pathological basis for AD lesions is the excessive generation and deposition of 
β-amyloid (Aβ) caused by increased expression of the β-secretase, known as the 
β-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1). Effective 
suppression of the BACE1 overexpression has become a key AD treatment. Nuclear 
factor of activated T cells (NFAT) is a key transcription factor that regulates 
the expression of BACE1 in AD lesions, while Calcineurin (CaN) is a key 
regulatory protein that affects the transcription function of NFAT. Several 
lines of evidence have indicated that FK506 may promote the Aβ degradation via 
upregulation of the matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) expression, which is 
associated with reduction of Aβ plaque deposition in the cerebral cortex and 
hippocampus.
METHODS: In this study, behavioral, histological, and biochemical methods were 
used to investigate the key role and molecular mechanisms of CaN inhibitor FK506 
in cognitive dysfunction, regulation of BACE1 expression, and Aβ production in 
APPswe/PS1dE9 transgenic mice. Results The results indicate that FK506 inhibits 
NFAT1 levels in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, thereby reducing the 
expression of BACE1 and mediating APP processing towards non-amyloidosis 
pathways, significantly reducing Aβ overproduction, which in turn saved 
cognitive deficits in APPswe/PS1dE9 transgenic mice. In addition, FK506 
treatment had no significant effect on the expression of a disintegrin and 
metalloprotease (ADAM10) in α - secretase.
CONCLUSIONS: FK506 rescues cognitive deficits in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice by reducing 
Aβ production and deposition in the brain.

DOI: 10.1080/01616412.2025.2528156
PMID: 40616321


29. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Jul;40(7):e70122. doi: 10.1002/gps.70122.

Cost of Psychiatric Inpatient Treatment for Dementia in Switzerland: A 
Case-Level Analysis of Billing Data.

Bleibtreu E(1), Riese F(1).

Author information:
(1)Healthy Longevity Center, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to investigate the cost of care for 
patients with a primary diagnosis of dementia in Swiss hospitals under the new 
TARPSY reimbursement system.
METHODS: We used a dataset of the Swiss hospital reimbursement system TARPSY 
from 2016 to 2019, including all relevant remuneration variables at the patient 
level, to investigate hospital costs. Costs were analyzed by geographic location 
and hospital type. Homogeneity coefficients were used to analyze case cost 
homogeneity.
RESULTS: We identified 7090 cases in the TARPSY database who were treated in 
Swiss hospitals under the primary diagnosis of dementia from 2016 to 2019. Of 
these, 6747 cases were included in our analysis. The total case costs and daily 
costs increased from 2016 to 2019, whereas the length of stay decreased. The 
average total case cost in 2019 was CHF 34,917 (σ = 32,926), corresponding to a 
daily cost of CHF 946 (σ = 373.44). Patients were treated for an average of 39.7 
(σ = 32.40) days. In 2019, the total costs billed according to TARPSY for 
57,939 days of hospital care for dementia as the primary diagnosis were CHF 51.3 
million. The case costs differed by region and hospital type. Overall, cost 
homogeneity for total case cost as a proxy for the quality of the cost 
calculation was "satisfactory, sufficient" and did not show a clear trend 
towards improvement during the introduction of TARPSY.
DISCUSSION: Our analysis provides reliable, case-level cost data for dementia 
hospital treatment in Switzerland. The total cost of dementia treatment in 
psychiatric hospitals appears to be much lower than previous estimates had 
indicated. When correcting for changes in accounting practices, total case costs 
only increased modestly from 2016 to 2019.

© 2025 The Author(s). International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.70122
PMCID: PMC12227842
PMID: 40616254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


30. Fluids Barriers CNS. 2025 Jul 4;22(1):69. doi: 10.1186/s12987-025-00681-6.

Characteristics of patients with idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus for 
whom neurosurgeons hesitate to perform shunt surgery: a nationwide 
hospital-based survey in Japan.

Kawai R(1), Kazui H(2), Ueba T(3), Nakamura N(4), Minami M(4), Nakajima M(5), 
Yamada S(6), Kishima H(7), Kanemoto H(8)(9), Iseki C(10), Mori E(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Kochi Medical School, Kochi University, 
Nankoku, Japan.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Kochi Medical School, Kochi University, 
Nankoku, Japan. kazui@kochi-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Kochi Medical School, Kochi University, Nankoku, 
Japan.
(4)Integrated Center for Advanced Medical Technologies (ICAM-Tech), Kochi 
Medical School Hospital, Kochi University, Nankoku, Japan.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Juntendo University Faculty of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Graduate School of Medical Science, Nagoya City 
University, Nagoya, Japan.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, The University of Osaka Graduate School of 
Medicine, Suita, Japan.
(8)Health and Counseling Center, The University of Osaka, Toyonaka, Japan.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, The University of Osaka Graduate School of 
Medicine, Suita, Japan.
(10)Department of Behavioral Neurology and Cognitive Neuroscience, Tohoku 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan.
(11)Department of Behavioral Neurology and Neuropsychiatry, The University of 
Osaka United Graduate School of Child Development, Suita, Japan.

BACKGROUND: There is no consensus regarding the indications for shunt surgery in 
patients with idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) aged ≥ 85 years or 
in those with severe physical or mental comorbidities. This nationwide study 
investigates the current approaches of neurosurgeons regarding iNPH treatment 
and surgical indications.
METHODS: A questionnaire, developed in collaboration with neurosurgeons and 
dementia specialists, was distributed to 1,220 facilities from October 10, 2023. 
Responses were collected through December 11, 2023 and analyzed to assess 
current practices and factors influencing surgical decisions.
RESULTS: In total, 656 facilities (53.8%) responded. Of them, 30 (4.6%) had a 
policy of not performing shunt surgery at their own facility and referred 
patients to other appropriate facilities, and 139 (21.2%) did not perform any 
shunt surgeries in 2022. The most common number of shunt surgeries performed in 
2022 was 1-5 surgeries per facility, accounting for 257 facilities (57.1%). 
Regarding age-related indications for shunt surgery, 159 facilities (35.3%) 
reported no age restrictions, whereas 155 facilities (57.8%) among the 268 
facilities considering age (59.6%) responded that patients aged ≥ 90 years were 
not indicated for shunt surgery. Among 450 facilities that performed shunt 
surgeries in 2022, hesitations resulting from comorbidities were reported as 
follows: cerebrovascular disease (10.0%), orthopedic disease (11.5%), dialysis 
(29.8%), Parkinson's syndrome (19.5%), Alzheimer's disease (AD) (42.7%), 
schizophrenia (44.2%), absence of disproportionately enlarged subarachnoid space 
hydrocephalus (DESH) (41.5%), and insufficient care or institutionalization 
(56.0%). Logistic regression analyses showed that the number of shunt surgeries 
performed in 2022 was significant predictor of age ≥ 90 years, cerebrovascular 
disease, Parkinson's syndrome, AD, no DESH, and insufficient care or 
institutionalization. Significant predictors for dialysis, AD, and schizophrenia 
included the presence of collaborating internal medicine facilities. For 
dialysis and AD, the classification of facilities and having a qualified 
dementia specialist were significant predictors, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A number of Japanese neurosurgeons hesitate to perform shunt 
surgery in patients with iNPH aged ≥ 90 years, with comorbid AD or 
schizophrenia, lacking DESH findings, or having insufficient care support or are 
institutionalized. Multidisciplinary collaboration with internal medicine, 
including neurology and psychiatry, may help expand appropriate surgical 
indications for these patients.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12987-025-00681-6
PMCID: PMC12228187
PMID: 40616109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Ethical Review Board of Kochi 
Medical School (Nankoku, Kochi, Japan) and was conducted in accordance with the 
Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice and the Declaration of Helsinki. Informed 
consent for participation was obtained via the website. Consent for publication: 
Not applicable. Competing interests: Kazui H has received speaker’s honoraria 
from Integra Japan K.K. Kishima H has received speaker’s honoraria from Integra 
Japan K.K and Medtronic Japan Co., Ltd. The other authors declare no competing 
interests.


31. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 4;17(1):148. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01793-9.

Rescue of protein dyshomeostasis in hippocampal astrocytes from an Alzheimer's 
disease mouse model by stabilizing ER-mitochondrial interactions at a 20 nm 
distance.

Dematteis G(#)(1)(2), Gong C(#)(3), Malecka J(1), Tonelli E(1)(4), Genazzani 
A(5), Tapella L(1), Eleuteri AM(#)(6), Lim D(#)(7), Bonfili L(#)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Università del Piemonte Orientale, Via 
Bovio 6, Novara, 28100, Italy.
(2)U1215 NeuroCentre Magendie, INSERM, Bordeaux , 33077, France.
(3)School of Biosciences and Veterinary Medicine, University of Camerino, Via 
Gentile III da Varano, Camerino, MC, 62032, Italy.
(4)Experimental Neurology Unit, School of Medicine and Surgery, University of 
Milano- Bicocca, Milan, Italy.
(5)Department of Drug Science and Technology, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.
(6)School of Biosciences and Veterinary Medicine, University of Camerino, Via 
Gentile III da Varano, Camerino, MC, 62032, Italy. annamaria.eleuteri@unicam.it.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Università del Piemonte Orientale, Via 
Bovio 6, Novara, 28100, Italy. dmitry.lim@uniupo.it.
(8)School of Biosciences and Veterinary Medicine, University of Camerino, Via 
Gentile III da Varano, Camerino, MC, 62032, Italy. laura.bonfili@unicam.it.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the major age-related form of dementia 
in which dysfunctional ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and autophagy represent 
primary mechanisms leading to accumulation of misfolded proteins, dysfunction of 
astroglial cells, neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. Alterations of the 
endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondria contact sites (MERCS), specifically the 
shortening of the distance between the organelles, was proposed as a key 
mechanism of cell dysfunction in AD. However, its link to the impairment of the 
proteolytic system in AD remains unexplored.
METHODS: We used, as a model, hippocampal astrocytes from 3xTg-AD mice 
expressing either control plasmid or synthetic linkers stabilizing 
ER-mitochondrial interaction at 10 nm (10 nm-EML) or at 20 nm (20 nm-EML). 
Alternatively, astrocytes were treated with mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake inhibitor 
benzethonium chloride or activator amorolfine. We used Western blot to assess 
protein expression and specific enzymatic activity tests for the analysis of 
proteasomal, autophagic and lysosomal activities. Single cell fluorescent Ca2+ 
imaging, using 4mtD3cpv probe targeted to the mitochondrial matrix, was used to 
assess mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake.
RESULTS: Stabilization of MERCS at 20 nm (20 nm-MERCS), which promotes 
mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake, rescued protein ubiquitination, UPS composition and 
activity. Immunoproteasome components β2i and β5i, upregulated in AD astrocytes, 
and INFγ, a master-regulator of UPS remodelling in inflammatory conditions, were 
also rescued. Autophagic markers beclin 1, LC3II and p62, and lysosome-related 
marker cathepsin B, all upregulated in AD astrocytes, were significantly 
reduced, while autophagic flux was rescued, by stabilizing 20 nm-MERCS. 
Furthermore, stabilization of 20 nm-MERCS fully rescued previously reported 
deficit of mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake. Strikingly, application of a mitochondrial 
Ca2+ uptake positive modulator, amorolfine, partially rescued pathological 
remodelling of UPS and autophagy, suggesting that both mitochondrial 
Ca2+-related and Ca2+-unrelated mechanisms play a role in the beneficial effect 
of 20 nm-MERCS stabilization on protein dyshomeostasis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that disruption of ER-mitochondrial interaction 
is a key factor for AD-related dysregulation of protein degradation and provide 
a proof that stabilization of MERCS at a defined distance and/or pharmacological 
rescue of mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake represent valuable strategies for the 
development of future anti-AD therapy.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01793-9
PMCID: PMC12228274
PMID: 40615914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


32. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 4;17(1):146. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01791-x.

Low-dose interleukin-2 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease: a 
randomized clinical trial.

Faridar A(1)(2), Gamez N(3), Li D(3), Wang Y(3), Boradia R(3), Thome AD(3), Zhao 
W(3), Beers DR(3), Thonhoff JR(3), Nakawah MO(3), Román GC(3), Volpi JJ(3), 
Toledo JB(3), George M(4), Davis CS(5), Pascual B(3), Grundman M(6)(7), Masdeu 
JC(3), Appel SH(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Stanley H. Appel Department of Neurology, Houston Methodist Research 
Institute, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. afaridar@houstonmethodist.org.
(2)Stanley H. Appel Department of Neurology, Academic Institute, 6560 Fannin 
Street, Suite 750, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. afaridar@houstonmethodist.org.
(3)Stanley H. Appel Department of Neurology, Houston Methodist Research 
Institute, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(5)CSD Biostatistics, Inc., 1005 W. Soft Wind Place, Tucson, AZ, 85737, USA.
(6)Global R&D Partners, LLC, 13236 Haxton Place, San Diego, CA, 92130, USA.
(7)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, 92037, USA.
(8)Stanley H. Appel Department of Neurology, Houston Methodist Research 
Institute, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. sappel@houstonmethodist.org.
(9)Stanley H. Appel Department of Neurology, Johnson Center for Cellular 
Therapeutics, 6565 Fannin Street, Suite P3-201, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. 
sappel@houstonmethodist.org.

BACKGROUND: We previously documented that regulatory T cells (Tregs) 
immunomodulatory mechanisms are compromised in Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
shifting the immune system toward a pro-inflammatory response. However, Tregs 
are a potentially restorable therapeutic target in AD. In this study, we 
evaluated the safety and efficacy of two dosing frequencies of low-dose 
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) in expanding Tregs to modify disease progression in AD 
individuals.
METHODS: In this phase 2a, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 
38 participants were assigned to receive subcutaneous IL-2 (10^6 IU/day) for 
five days, administered either every 4 weeks (IL-2 q4wks) or every 2 weeks (IL-2 
q2wks), versus placebo, for 21 weeks, followed by 9 weeks of observation. The 
primary endpoints were the incidence and severity of adverse events. For the 
secondary endpoints, changes in Treg numbers and suppressive functions were 
evaluated. Exploratory endpoints included changes in plasma inflammatory 
mediators, CSF AD-related biomarkers, and clinical scales.
RESULTS: Of the 38 participants, 9 received IL-2 q4wks, 10 received IL-2 q2wks, 
and 19 received placebo. All participants completed the trial with no serious 
adverse events or deaths. Both IL-2 dosing regimens increased Treg numbers and 
suppressive function, but IL-2 q4wks treatment exhibited superiority in 
enhancing Treg percentage and Foxp3 mean fluorescent intensity. In longitudinal 
analysis of 45 inflammatory mediators, IL-2 q4wks administration demonstrated 
greater efficacy in alleviating the plasma inflammatory mediators CCL2, CCL11, 
and IL-15, while enhancing IL-4 and CCL13 levels. A significant improvement in 
CSF Aβ42 levels (p = 0.045 vs. placebo) on Day 148 was observed following IL-2 
q4wks administration, compared to placebo. While CSF NfL increased by 217 pg/ml 
in placebo recipients, it remained stable in the IL-2 q4wks group (p = 0.060, 
IL-2 q4wks vs. placebo). The adjusted mean change from baseline in the ADAS-cog 
score at week 22 indicated a trend toward slower clinical progression in IL-2 
q4wks recipients compared to placebo (p = 0.061).
CONCLUSIONS: The IL-2 immunotherapeutic strategy was safe and well-tolerated. 
IL-2 q4wks effectively expanded Treg populations, leading to modification in 
inflammatory mediators and CSF Aβ42 levels, while also showing promising trends 
on clinical scales. These findings provide a foundation for further 
investigation of low-dose IL-2 as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's Disease.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT06096090, Registration 
Date: 10-17-2023.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01791-x
PMCID: PMC12231701
PMID: 40615880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The trial was approved by the Houston Methodist Research Institute 
(HMRI) institutional review board (IRB) committee. All patients signed informed 
consent prior to study enrolment. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: AF, ADT, JCM, JRT declares a conflict of interest as a 
consultant with Coya Therapeutics, Inc. SHA declares a conflict of interest as a 
consultant with Implicit Bioscience and scientific advisory board chair of Coya 
Therapeutics, Inc. DRB declares a conflict of interest as a consultant with 
Implicit Bioscience and Coya Therapeutics, Inc. MG is an employee of Global R&D 
Partners, LLC, which received consulting fees from HMRI. CD is an employee of 
CSD Biostatistics, Inc, which received consulting fees from HMRI. Remaining 
authors have no conflict of interest.


33. BMC Neurosci. 2025 Jul 4;26(1):39. doi: 10.1186/s12868-025-00953-9.

Gut Microbiome rewiring via fecal transplants: Uncovering therapeutic avenues in 
Alzheimer's disease models.

Upadhyay P(1)(2), Kumar S(1), Tyagi A(1), Tyagi AR(1), Barbhuyan T(1), Gupta 
S(3).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Science Lab National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi, India.
(2)Wellman Center for Photomedicine Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School Boston, Boston, USA.
(3)Molecular Science Lab National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi, India. 
sarika@nii.ac.in.

BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence implicates the gut microbiome in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) pathogenesis, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. This 
study elucidates the bidirectional relationship between gut microbiota and AD 
using fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) in a mouse model.
RESULT: Through meticulous experimentation, we conducted reciprocal FMT between 
AD (5xFAD) and healthy (C57BL/6) mice to unravel the impact of gut microbiome 
alterations on cognitive function and neuroinflammation. FMT from 5xFAD to 
C57BL/6 mice induced profound memory impairment and cognitive deficits, 
accompanied by elevated inflammatory cytokine levels, oxidative stress markers, 
and systemic inflammation, as evidenced by increased plasma cytokines. 
Conversely, transplanting healthy microbiota into 5xFAD mice yielded remarkable 
behavioral improvements, including enhanced spatial memory performance in the 
Morris water maze, directly correlating with cognitive recovery. Our findings 
underscore the pivotal role of the gut microbiome in AD pathogenesis and offer a 
promising therapeutic avenue.
CONCLUSION: Targeted modulation of the gut microbiome through strategies like 
FMT may offer potential benefits in Alzheimer's disease by influencing 
neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and cognitive function. This comprehensive 
study provides novel insights into the gut-brain axis dynamics and paves the way 
for innovative microbiome-based interventions in AD management.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12868-025-00953-9
PMCID: PMC12231717
PMID: 40615821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The design of the study and protocols were approved by the National 
Institute of Immunology and CPCSEA’s IAEC (Approval Number # 491/18). The study 
was conducted in accordance with the approved guidelines and regulations. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Clinical trial number: Not applicable.


34. Geroscience. 2025 Jul 4. doi: 10.1007/s11357-025-01774-8. Online ahead of
print.

Increased genetic protection against Alzheimer's disease in centenarians.

Bae H(1), Song Z(2)(3), Ali A(4)(5), Sasaki T(6), Tesi N(7)(8)(9), Lords H(10), 
Leshchyk A(10), Abe Y(6), Hirose N(11), Arai Y(6)(12), Barzilai N(4)(5)(13), 
Weiss EF(13)(14), Hulsman M(8)(9), van der Lee S(8)(9), van Schoor NM(15), 
Huisman M(15), Pijnenburg Y(9), van der Flier W(9), Reinders M(7), Holstege 
H(7)(8)(9), Milman S(4)(5)(13), Perls TT(16), Andersen SL(16), Sebastiani 
P(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Nutrition and Public Health, College of Health, Oregon State 
University, Corvallis, OR, USA. harold.bae@oregonstate.edu.
(2)Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical 
Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)School of Medicine, Tufts University, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park 
Ave, Bronx, NY, 10461, USA.
(5)Department of Genetics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park 
Ave, Bronx, NY, 10461, USA.
(6)Center for Supercentenarian Medical Research, Keio University School of 
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Delft Bioinformatics Lab, Delft University of Technology, Mekelweg 2, 2628CD, 
Delft, The Netherlands.
(8)Section Genomics of Neurodegenerative Diseases and Aging, Department of 
Clinical Genetics, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, UMC, De Boelelaan 
1117, 1081HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(9)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, UMC, De Boelelaan 1117, 1081HV, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(10)Division of Computational Biomedicine, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Center of Supercentenarian Medical Research, School of Medicine, Keio 
University, Tokyo, Japan.
(12)Faculty of Nursing, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.
(13)Institute for Aging Researchand the Einstein-NSC, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Ave, Bronx, NY, 10461, USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College 
of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Ave, Bronx, NY, 10461, USA.
(15)Department of Epidemiology and Data Sciences, Amsterdam UMC Location Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1117, 1081HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(16)Boston University, Avedisian School of Medicine, Chobanian &, Boston, MA, 
USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2025 Jun 03:2025.06.02.657442. doi: 10.1101/2025.06.02.657442.

We constructed a polygenic protective score specific to Alzheimer's disease (AD 
PPS) based on the current literature among the participants enrolled in five 
studies of healthy aging and extreme longevity in the USA, Europe, and Asia. 
This AD PPS did not include variants on apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene. 
Comparisons of AD PPS in different data sets of healthy agers and centenarians 
showed that centenarians have stronger genetic protection against AD compared to 
individuals without familial longevity. The current study also shows evidence 
that this genetic protection increases with increasingly older ages in 
centenarians (centenarians who died before reaching age 105 years, 
semi-supercentenarians who reached age 105 to 109 years, and supercentenarians 
who reached age 110 years and older). However, the genetic protection was of 
modest size: the average increase in AD PPS was approximately one additional 
protective allele per 5 years of gained lifetime. Additionally, we show that the 
higher AD PPS was associated with better cognitive function and decreased 
mortality. Taken together, this analysis suggests that individuals who achieve 
the most extreme ages, on average, have the greatest protection against AD. This 
finding is robust to different genetic backgrounds with important implications 
for universal applicability of therapeutics that target this AD PPS.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to American Aging Association.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-025-01774-8
PMID: 40615639

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


35. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 4;15(1):23918. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-07864-z.

An international multi-cohort investigation of self-reported sleep and future 
depressive symptoms in older adults.

Wallace ML(1)(2), Oryshkewych N(3), Hoepel SJW(4), Buysse DJ(5), Mentch L(6), 
Butters MA(5), Stone KL(7)(8), Yaffe K(9), Barnes LL(10), Lim AS(11), Ensrud 
KE(12), Paudel ML(13), Luik A(10)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, 3811 O'Hara Street, 
Pittsburgh, PA, 15213, USA. lotzmj@upmc.edu.
(2)Department of Statistics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. 
lotzmj@upmc.edu.
(3)University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, 3811 O'Hara Street, 
Pittsburgh, PA, 15213, USA.
(6)Department of Statistics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(7)California Pacific Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(8)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California, San 
Francisco, USA.
(9)Departments of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Neurology and 
Epidemiology, University of California at San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(10)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(12)Division of Epidemiology and Community Health and Department of Medicine, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(13)Division of Rheumatology, Inflammation and Immunity, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(14)Trimbos Institute - The Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and 
Addiction, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Poor subjective sleep is associated with future depression in older adults, but 
there is limited consensus on which sleep features have the strongest 
associations. Moreover, composite scores incorporating multiple features may 
better represent sleep burden than individual sleep items. We analyzed older 
adults (age ≥ 60) without clinically relevant depressive symptoms from a 
multi-cohort United States sample (US; N = 4826) and the Netherlands' Rotterdam 
Study (RS; N = 3663), with the goal of identifying individual and composite 
sleep features that are associated with future clinically relevant depressive 
symptoms 3-6 years later. Sleep-related daytime symptoms (Risk Ratio [95% CI] 
2.10 [1.58, 2.80] in US; 2.10 [1.40, 3.14] in RS) and difficulty falling asleep 
(1.87 [1.49, 2.35] in US; RS = 1.90 [1.50, 2.43] in RS) were the strongest 
individual sleep features. Moreover, the combination of these features was most 
impactful (3.32 [2.33, 4.73] in US; 3.19 [2.64, 3.86] in RS), providing the 
largest effect size with the fewest number of items. Future studies should 
assess whether screening tools incorporating these features, paired with 
targeted sleep treatment, could reduce rates of incident depression in older 
adults. Examining mechanisms underlying these associations could improve the 
effectiveness of sleep-related treatments in older adults.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-07864-z
PMCID: PMC12227749
PMID: 40615433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: Dr. Buysse 
has served as a paid or unpaid consultant to Sleep Number. He is an author of 
the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index Addendum for 
PTSD (PSQI-A), Brief Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (B-PSQI), Daytime Insomnia 
Symptoms Scale, Pittsburgh Sleep Diary, Insomnia Symptom Questionnaire, and 
RU_SATED (copyright held by University of Pittsburgh). These instruments have 
been licensed to commercial entities for fees. He is also co-author of the 
Consensus Sleep Diary (copyright held by Ryerson University), which is licensed 
to commercial entities for a fee. Dr. Wallace is a statistical consultant for 
Health Rhythms, Sleep Number, and Noctem Health, unrelated to the current work. 
All other co-authors have no disclosures to report. Ethics approval: The SHARE 
Initiative (RF1AG056331) received an exempt Institutional Review Board (IRB) 
declaration for data harmonization, aggregation, and analysis of secondary data 
from each cohort included in the present study (STUDY21010174). The study 
procedures for each of the original US cohorts were approved by the 
Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) of their respective institutions (Sutter 
Health IRB # 23.104EXP; WCG IRB # 20200148; Rush University Medical Center IRB # 
L99032481-CR13). The Rotterdam Study procedures were approved by the Medical 
Ethics committee of the Erasmus MC (registration number MEC 02.1015) and by the 
Dutch Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport (Population Screening Act WBO, 
license number 1071272-159521-PG) and has been entered into the Netherlands 
National Trial Register (NTR; www.trialregister.nl ) and the WHO International 
Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP; www.who.int/ictrp/network/primary/en/ 
) under shared catalog number NTR6831. All methods and procedures were carried 
out in accordance with relevant guidelines and regulations. Informed consent: 
Participants in each cohort provided written informed consent to participate in 
the respective longitudinal studies.


36. Brain Res Bull. 2025 Sep;229:111451. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111451.
 Epub 2025 Jul 2.

Combination of electroacupuncture and Liqi Yangyin formula treatment alleviates 
cognitive impairment and constipation in D-gal-induced mice via modulation of 
the brain-gut axis.

Xu C(1), Shen P(1), Li Q(1), Ong SS(1), Qian Y(2), Song Y(3), Xu T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital 
Clinical College of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(2)Department of Nutrition, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, USA.
(3)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital 
Clinical College of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China; 
Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, The 
Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University Medical School, Nanjing, China. 
Electronic address: 877175119@qq.com.
(4)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital 
Clinical College of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China; 
Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, The 
Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University Medical School, Nanjing, China. 
Electronic address: tianshuxu2007@126.com.

Mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a precursor to Alzheimer's disease, and 
constipation, a common gastrointestinal complaint in older adults, frequently 
co-occur and have been increasingly linked through the gut-brain axis. Emerging 
evidence suggests that disruptions in gut microbiota and intestinal function may 
contribute to cognitive decline. However, effective therapeutic strategies that 
simultaneously address both conditions remain limited. This study investigated 
the effects of electroacupuncture (EA) combined with the Liqi Yangyin (LQYY) 
formula on cognitive function and constipation in a D-galactose (D-gal)-induced 
mouse model of MCI. Forty-five C57BL/6 mice were randomized into five groups: 
control, D-gal model, EA, EA+LQYY, and donepezil groups. Behavioural tests, 
including the Y-maze and Morris water maze, were used to assess cognitive 
performance. Meanwhile, gastrointestinal (GI) transit rate, fecal water content, 
and histological analysis were conducted to evaluate constipation-related 
parameters. Intestinal barrier function was assessed via Occludin and ZO-1 
protein expression, and levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and amyloid-beta 
(Aβ42) were measured in the colon, serum, and hippocampus. Results showed that 
EA+LQYY significantly improved cognitive performance and alleviated constipation 
compared to the model group, with superior efficacy to EA alone or donepezil. 
Mechanistically, EA+LQYY restored intestinal barrier integrity (via upregulation 
of Occludin and ZO-1), increased 5-HT levels in the gut, serum, and hippocampus, 
and reduced Aβ42 deposition in the colon, serum, and hippocampus across tissues. 
These findings suggest that EA+LQYY modulates the gut-brain axis through 
multi-target mechanisms, offering a promising integrative therapy for MCI and 
associated constipation. Future studies should explore specific molecular 
pathways and long-term clinical efficacy to further validate its therapeutic 
potential.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111451
PMID: 40614979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


37. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2025 Sep;176:106276. doi: 
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2025.106276. Epub 2025 Jul 3.

The microbiota-inflammasome-brain axis as a pathogenic mediator of 
neurodegenerative disorders.

Sarkar SK(1), Gubert C(2), Hannan AJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Parkville, Australia; 
Florey Department of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Australia; Department of Anatomy, Histology and Physiology, Faculty 
of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Sher-e-Bangla Agricultural 
University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(2)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Parkville, Australia; 
Florey Department of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Australia. Electronic address: carolina.gubert@florey.edu.au.
(3)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Parkville, Australia; 
Florey Department of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Australia; Department of Anatomy and Physiology, University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Australia. Electronic address: 
anthony.hannan@florey.edu.au.

In various neurodegenerative disorders, inflammation and associated inflammasome 
activation play an important role. The most prevalent and extensively researched 
inflammasomes are NLRP3 inflammasomes, which are triggered by pathogens or 
danger signals mediating inflammatory reaction. Extracellular ATP also activates 
NLRP3 by stimulating the purinergic receptor P2X7 (P2X7R). Central and 
peripheral cells, including those in the gut, have been shown to have activated 
inflammasomes during pathological changes co-occurring with inflammation in 
various neurodegenerative disorders. Gut injury or dysfunction is increasingly 
recognised as one of the peripheral pathogenic characteristics of many 
neurodegenerative disorders, and has been found to associate with changes in gut 
microbes. In this article, we review data from preclinical and clinical studies 
regarding the involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome and the purinergic receptor 
P2X7R in the pathophysiology of major CNS disorders involving neurodegeneration, 
including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis 
(MS), Huntington's disease (HD), and the most common form of motor neuron 
disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We also scrutinise the 
relationship of the NLRP3 inflammasome to intestinal microbiota alterations in 
these diseases. Both the NLRP3 inflammasome and P2X7R have been shown to play 
important roles in the pathogenesis and progression of these neurodegenerative 
diseases. However, most studies have focused on central nervous system (CNS) 
pathology, particularly within the brain, with comparatively less attention 
given to their contribution to gut pathology. Additionally, changes in the 
microbial ecosystems of the intestine have also been implicated in these 
disorders. However, the association between gut microbiota alterations and 
inflammasome activity in the pathology of these neurodegenerative disorders 
remains poorly understood. Therefore, further investigation is urgently needed 
to explore the microbiota-inflammasome-brain axis in these neurodegenerative 
conditions, in order to better understand their contribution to disease 
pathogenesis and progression, and identify novel therapeutic targets and new 
approaches to prevention and treatment.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2025.106276
PMID: 40614949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Chem Biol Interact. 2025 Oct 8;419:111631. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111631.
Epub  2025 Jul 2.

Computational Investigation of Hardwickiic Acid-Derived Amides as Potential 
Cholinesterase Inhibitors: Molecular Docking and ADME/Tox Predictions.

Ribeiro R(1), Leite FHA(2), Mendes GO(2), Georgia de F T Barbosa F(1), 
Cavalcante SFA(3), Franca TCC(4), Santos MC(5), Veiga-Junior VF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Military Institute of Engineering,Rio de 
Janeiro/RJ, Brazil.
(2)Graduate Program in Biotechnology, State University of Feira de Santana, 
Feira de Santana, Bahia, Brazil; Laboratory of Chemoinformatics and Biological 
Assays, State University of Feira de Santana, Feira de Santana, Bahia, Brazil.
(3)Institute of Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Defense (IDQBRN), 
Brazilian Army Technological Center (CTEx), Rio de Janeiro/RJ, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Modeling Applied to Chemical and Biological Defense 
(LMCBD), Military Institute of Engineering, Rio de Janeiro/ RJ, Brazil; Center 
for Basic and Applied Research, Faculty of Informatics and Management, 
University of Hradec Kralove, 50003, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(5)Department of Chemical Engineering, Military Institute of Engineering,Rio de 
Janeiro/RJ, Brazil; Laboratory of Molecular Modeling Applied to Chemical and 
Biological Defense (LMCBD), Military Institute of Engineering, Rio de Janeiro/ 
RJ, Brazil. Electronic address: marcelocarneiro@ime.eb.br.

This study is a theoretical investigation of amides derived from hardwickiic 
acid (HA) as potential inhibitors of human acetyl- and butyryl-cholinesterase 
(hAChE and hBChE) and as drug candidates against Alzheimer's Disease (AD). 
Twelve compounds were prepared and geometrically optimized using GaussView 5.0.8 
and the DFT method with the B3LYP/6-31G basis set to visualize molecular 
electrostatic potential (MEP) maps and frontier orbitals (HOMO and LUMO). In 
addition, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties were studied using the 
online servers PreADMET and SwissADME. Molecular docking was performed against 
crystal structures of hAChE and hBChE prepared with the biopolymer module in 
SYBYL-X 2.0, previously validated. The results revealed similar profiles in 
surface maps and molecular orbitals for the amide substituent group. 
Pharmacokinetic predictions demonstrated that all 12 HA amide derivatives showed 
significant values for blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration, classifying them 
as active in the central nervous system (CNS), a crucial pathway for AD 
treatment. Intermolecular interactions between the compounds and targets suggest 
that the benzyl amide derivative I had the highest affinity toward the hAChE 
binding site (-10.1 kcal/mol), while the hydroxy amide derivative L showed the 
highest affinity for the hBChE binding site (-9.7 kcal/mol). These findings can 
inform future enzymatic assays of HA amide derivatives against AChE and BChE.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111631
PMID: 40614917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. Funding This work was supported by the Brazilian Funding agencies: 
Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientfico e Tecnológico (CNPq) - Grants 
n(o): 305432/2022-2 (T.C.C.F) and 310782/2022-8 (V.F.V.J.), Fundação Carlos 
Chagas Filho de Amparo a Pesquisa no Estado do Rio de Janeiro (FAPERJ) - Grants 
n(o)E-26/200.512/2023 and E-26/211.315/2021 (V.F.V.J). Acknowledgments The 
authors wish to thank the Military Institute of Engineering and the Brazilian 
Army Technological Centre for the infrastructure. T.C.C.F. thanks the support of 
the project: Long-term development plan UHK. Authors would like to dedicate this 
work to the memory of Professor Antonio Luis dos Santos Lima.


39. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 2025 Sep;224:115645. doi: 10.1016/j.addr.2025.115645.
Epub  2025 Jul 2.

The intersection of circadian rhythms and the blood-brain barrier with drug 
efficacy and delivery in neurological disorders.

Schindler KA(1), Torices S(2), Schurhoff N(2), Gallo DI(2), Toborek M(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Department of Biochemistry and 
Molecular Biology, Miami, FL, USA; University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Medical Scientist Training Program, Miami, FL, USA. Electronic 
address: kas460@med.miami.edu.
(2)University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Department of Biochemistry and 
Molecular Biology, Miami, FL, USA.
(3)University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Department of Biochemistry and 
Molecular Biology, Miami, FL, USA; Institute of Physiotherapy and Health 
Sciences, the Blood-Brain Barrier Research Center, the Jerzy Kukuczka Academy of 
Physical Education, Katowice, Poland. Electronic address: 
mtoborek@med.miami.edu.

Circadian rhythms typically maintain a 24-hour cycle which determines the 
regulation of many genes and proteins including, but not limited to, those which 
control the permeability of the blood brain barrier (BBB). The BBB acts as a 
boundary between circulating blood and the brain, protecting the brain from 
toxicants, maintaining homeostasis, and regulating perfusion. Importantly, the 
BBB regulates the efficacy of drug delivery into the central nervous system 
(CNS). Emerging evidence demonstrates a bi-directional relationship between 
circadian rhythm dysfunction, neurological disorders, and/or BBB disruption. 
This means that impaired BBB functions and circadian rhythm dysregulation can be 
both the driver of neurological disease and the result. As such, both represent 
an opportunity for therapeutic intervention which can prevent disease 
development, manage symptoms, or mediate disease progression. This review seeks 
to describe the changes in both the BBB and circadian rhythms in a series of 
neurological (stroke, epilepsy, traumatic brain injury), neurodegenerative 
(Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease), and psychiatric disorders (major 
depressive disorder, schizophrenia). We also describe therapeutic approaches for 
protecting against both BBB and circadian rhythm dysfunction, methods of 
surpassing the BBB, and bolstering drug efficacy with chronotherapeutic 
strategies.

Crown Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addr.2025.115645
PMCID: PMC12321092
PMID: 40614866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


40. Brain Stimul. 2025 Jul-Aug;18(4):1220-1223. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2025.07.001.
Epub  2025 Jul 2.

Insufficient low-level near infrared light penetration challenges the efficacy 
of transcranial photobiomodulation.

Tittelmeier J(1), Kaub L(2), Milz S(1), Kugelmann D(3), Hof PR(4), Schmitz C(1), 
Nussbaum-Krammer C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy II, Faculty of Medicine, Ludwig-Maximilians-University 
(LMU) Munich, Pettenkoferstr. 11, 80336, Munich, Germany.
(2)Department of Anatomy II, Faculty of Medicine, Ludwig-Maximilians-University 
(LMU) Munich, Pettenkoferstr. 11, 80336, Munich, Germany; Department of Earth 
and Environmental Sciences, Geophysics, Faculty of Geosciences, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU) Munich, Theresienstr. 41, 80333, Munich, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Anatomy I, Faculty of Medicine, Ludwig-Maximilians-University 
(LMU) Munich, Pettenkoferstr. 11, 80336, Munich, Germany.
(4)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience and Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 787 11th Avenue, New York, NY, 10019, USA.
(5)Department of Anatomy II, Faculty of Medicine, Ludwig-Maximilians-University 
(LMU) Munich, Pettenkoferstr. 11, 80336, Munich, Germany. Electronic address: 
carmen.nussbaum@med.uni-muenchen.de.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2025.07.001
PMID: 40614861

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Christoph Schmitz reports a 
relationship with Electro Medical Systems (Nyon, Switzerland) that includes: 
consulting or advisory. If there are other authors, they declare that they have 
no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


41. Pharmacol Res. 2025 Aug;218:107849. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2025.107849. Epub
2025  Jul 2.

Detoxification and age-related neurodegenerative diseases: Correlation and 
therapeutic potential.

Yan Y(1), Maisenbacher M(2), Huang C(3), Fan S(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shanghai 201203, China. Electronic address: yxy_iris@163.com.
(2)Department of Neurological Sciences, College of Medicine, University of 
Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198, USA. Electronic address: 
mmaisenbacher@unmc.edu.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shanghai 201203, China. Electronic address: chuang@shutcm.edu.cn.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shanghai 201203, China. Electronic address: shengjiefan@shutcm.edu.cn.

Age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
Parkinson's disease (PD) are associated with substantial mortality and 
morbidity. The etiology and pathogenesis of these diseases are not fully 
understood, which impedes the development of new therapies. Emerging 
epidemiological evidence has revealed that environmental toxicants substantially 
contribute to the pathogenesis of diseases through mechanisms involving 
compromised endogenous detoxification systems. This review synthesizes 
epidemiological and clinical evidence from human studies elucidating the crucial 
role of detoxification impairment in AD and PD pathogenesis, complemented by 
mechanistic insights from preclinical models. We also discuss novel therapeutic 
strategies targeting nuclear receptor signaling pathways-particularly the 
pregnane X receptor (PXR)-to restore detoxification capacity and modify disease 
trajectories.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2025.107849
PMID: 40614795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interests.


42. Tissue Cell. 2025 Oct;96:103033. doi: 10.1016/j.tice.2025.103033. Epub 2025
Jul  2.

Human placental extract (HPE) counteracts diabetic brain neurodegeneration by 
targeting PI3K/mTOR/GSK3β signaling and modulates hippocampal apoptosis and 
regeneration.

Matar S(1), Gomaa RA(1), Essawy A(1), El Wakil A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, Alexandria University, Alexandria 
21511, Egypt.
(2)Department of Biological and Geological Sciences, Faculty of Education, 
Alexandria University, Alexandria 21526, Egypt. Electronic address: 
abeer_elwakil@alexu.edu.eg.

OBJECTIVE: Diabetes mellitus (DM) is closely associated with neurodegeneration, 
predominantly through impaired insulin signaling and inflammation-driven 
neuronal cell death. This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of 
human placental extract (HPE) on hippocampal integrity and neurogenesis in a 
streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rat model.
METHODS: Male rats were randomly assigned into four groups: control, HPE, STZ, 
and STZ + HPE. Apoptosis was assessed via flow cytometry using Annexin V-FITC/PI 
staining, while ELISA measured hippocampal levels of PI3K, mTOR, and GSK3β. 
Histological and ultrastructural changes were analyzed using toluidine blue 
staining and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and immunohistochemical 
markers GFAP, Ki67, and caspase-3 were used to evaluate astrocyte activation, 
cell proliferation, and neuronal apoptosis, respectively.
RESULTS: STZ significantly increased early and late apoptotic cells 
(4.30 ± 0.15 % and 16.21 ± 0.08 %) and necrosis (3.28 ± 0.58 %) while reducing 
viable cells to 76.05 ± 0.84 %, compared to controls (93.16 ± 0.29 %). HPE 
treatment of diabetic rats significantly reversed these changes (p < 0.001). 
Moreover, STZ downregulated PI3K (31.46 ± 2.25 pg/mg) and mTOR 
(1.59 ± 0.10 ng/mg), while upregulating GSK3β (3.65 ± 0.12 ng/mg). HPE treatment 
restored PI3K (41.28 ± 2.49 pg/mg), mTOR (2.24 ± 0.15 ng/mg), and reduced GSK3β 
(2.74 ± 0.28 ng/mg). Histologically, STZ caused degeneration of pyramidal 
neurons, irregular nuclear membranes, and cytoplasmic vacuolation in the CA3 
region, which were ameliorated by HPE. GFAP immunoreactivity, markedly declined 
in diabetic rats, was augmented following HPE treatment, indicating attenuation 
of reactive astrogliosis. Additionally, HPE restored Ki67-positive proliferative 
cells in the CA3 region, reversing the diabetes-induced decline in hippocampal 
neurogenesis. Caspase-3 immunostaining showed elevated apoptosis in STZ rats, 
which was significantly reduced by HPE, restoring levels comparable to those of 
controls and confirming its anti-apoptotic effect.
CONCLUSIONS: HPE significantly mitigates STZ-induced hippocampal damage by 
restoring insulin signaling (PI3K/mTOR/GSK3β pathway), suppressing apoptosis and 
inflammation, and promoting neurogenesis. The combined effects on both 
caspase-3-mediated apoptosis and Ki67-driven proliferation highlight HPE's dual 
role in neuroprotection and regeneration. These findings support the therapeutic 
potential of HPE in managing diabetes-associated neurodegenerative changes.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tice.2025.103033
PMID: 40614664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


43. Bioorg Med Chem. 2025 Nov 1;129:118296. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2025.118296. Epub 
2025 Jun 28.

Design, synthesis and evaluation of vanillin derivatives as dual-target 
inhibitors for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Li ZH(1), Liu HM(1), Fan ZY(1), Pang W(1), Cheng LP(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Shanghai Institute of 
Technology, Shanghai 201418, China.
(2)Faculty of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Shanghai Institute of 
Technology, Shanghai 201418, China. Electronic address: chengliping@sit.edu.cn.

The purpose of this study is to develop more effective therapeutic agents to 
slow or prevent Alzheimer's progression. A lead compound ZINC4372573 was 
identified by using molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation 
techniques. A series of novel vanillin derivatives were designed and synthesized 
as dual inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase 
(BuChE). The in vitro assay results show that compound 4c exhibits the most 
potent inhibitory activity against both AChE and BuChE, with IC50 values of 
0.18 μM and 7.61 μM, respectively. This performance is superior to the positive 
control drug galantamine (AChE IC50 = 3.65 μM; BuChE IC50 = 15.29 μM). Molecular 
docking study reveals that the good activity of 4c may be attributed to the 
preferable docking mode, robust intermolecular interactions (including π-π 
stacking and hydrogen bonding), and the superior binding properties of the 
indole ring. Cytotoxicity test for compound 4c was further performed by CCK-8 
method, with results indicating a favorable safety profile. In addition, 
antioxidant test for 4c reveals its notable antioxidant activity. These findings 
suggest that 4c holds potential as a promising dual AChE/BuChE inhibitor for the 
development of novel therapeutic agents targeting Alzheimer's disease. 
Subsequent investigations will prioritize comprehensive evaluation of in vivo 
therapeutic efficacy and pharmacokinetic characterization, thereby facilitating 
translational development toward clinical applications.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2025.118296
PMID: 40614624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


44. Int Immunopharmacol. 2025 Sep 23;162:115156. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115156.  Epub 2025 Jul 3.

Curcumin analogue C66 ameliorates the pathology of Alzheimer's disease through 
suppression of JNK signaling pathway.

Xiong L(1), Yu Q(2), Chen L(2), Deng Y(2), Ai Q(2), Xu X(2), Meng Z(2), Chen 
F(2), Zhao X(3), Wei J(4), Yu H(5).

Author information:
(1)The First People's Hospital of Lin'an District, Affiliated Lin'an People's 
Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310014, China; School of 
Pharmacy, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311399, China.
(2)The First People's Hospital of Lin'an District, Affiliated Lin'an People's 
Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310014, China.
(3)The First People's Hospital of Lin'an District, Affiliated Lin'an People's 
Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310014, China; School of 
Pharmacy, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311399, China; Department 
of Pharmacy and Institute of Inflammation, Zhejiang Provincial People's 
Hospital, Affiliated People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 310014, China. Electronic address: xiazhao@hmc.edu.cn.
(4)The First People's Hospital of Lin'an District, Affiliated Lin'an People's 
Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310014, China. 
Electronic address: weiruirui03@126.com.
(5)The First People's Hospital of Lin'an District, Affiliated Lin'an People's 
Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310014, China. 
Electronic address: yuhouming99@163.com.

Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are two key pathological features in the 
early stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and they promote each other to further 
drive the progression of AD. Therefore, the development of therapeutic agents 
with dual anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties represents a promising 
strategy for AD treatment. C66, a synthetic derivative of curcumin, protected 
PC12 cells and primary neurons from oxidative damage caused by Aβ. In addition, 
C66 alleviated Aβ-induced excessive inflammatory response in BV2 cells. Further 
results showed that C66 reduced neuroinflammation and neuronal apoptosis, 
ultimately improved cognitive decline in APPswe/PSEN1dE9 (APP/PS1) double 
transgenic AD mice. Importantly, C66 exhibited superior improved properties in 
APP/PS1 mice compared with the clinical control drug donepezil. Mechanistically, 
we indicated that C66 conferred its neuroprotective effects by inhibiting c-Jun 
N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway. The result was further confirmed by using 
SP600125, a specific JNK inhibitor. Together, our findings suggest that C66 is 
expected to be further developed as a drug candidate for AD therapy.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115156
PMID: 40614596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


45. Brain Struct Funct. 2025 Jul 4;230(6):113. doi: 10.1007/s00429-025-02972-y.

Comparing intra- and inter-individual correlational brain connectivity from 
functional and structural neuroimaging data.

Di X(1), Biswal BB(2); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, 604 
Fenster Hall, University Height, Newark, NJ, 07102, USA. xin.di@njit.edu.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, 607 
Fenster Hall, University Height, Newark, NJ, 07102, USA. bbiswal@yahoo.com.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2025 Feb 28:2024.12.03.626661. doi: 10.1101/2024.12.03.626661.

Inferring brain connectivity from inter-individual correlations has been applied 
across various neuroimaging modalities, including positron emission tomography 
(PET) and MRI. The variability underlying these inter-individual correlations is 
generally attributed to factors such as genetics, life experiences, and 
long-term influences like aging. This study leveraged two unique longitudinal 
datasets to examine intra-individual correlations of structural and functional 
brain measures across an extended time span. By focusing on intra-individual 
correlations, we aimed to minimize individual differences and investigate how 
aging and state-like effects contribute to brain connectivity patterns. 
Additionally, we compared intra-individual correlations with inter-individual 
correlations to better understand their relationship. In the first dataset, 
which included repeated scans from a single individual over 15 years, we found 
that intra-individual correlations in both regional homogeneity (ReHo) during 
resting-state and gray matter volumes (GMV) from structural MRI closely 
resembled resting-state functional connectivity. However, ReHo correlations were 
primarily driven by state-like variability, whereas GMV correlations were mainly 
influenced by aging. The second dataset, comprising multiple participants with 
longitudinal Fludeoxyglucose (18 F) FDG-PET and MRI scans, replicated these 
findings. Both intra- and inter-individual correlations were strongly associated 
with resting-state functional connectivity, with functional measures (i.e., ReHo 
and FDG-PET) exhibiting greater similarity to resting-state connectivity than 
structural measures. This study demonstrated that controlling for various 
factors can enhance the interpretability of brain correlation structures. While 
inter- and intra-individual correlation patterns showed similarities, accounting 
for additional variables may improve our understanding of inter-individual 
connectivity measures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-025-02972-y
PMCID: PMC12227353
PMID: 40613932

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


46. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2025 Jul 24;80(8):glaf144. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glaf144.

Identifying motor resilience proteins associated with motor decline in older 
adults.

Buchman AS(1)(2), Wang T(1), de Paiva Lopes K(1), Zammit AR(1)(3), Oveisgharan 
S(1)(2), Seyfried N(4)(5), Wang Y(1), DeJager P(6), Nag S(1), Tasaki S(1), Yu 
L(1)(2), Bennett DA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois, United States.
(2)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois, United States.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Rush University Medical 
Center, Chicago, Illinois, United States.
(4)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
Georgia, United States.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, United 
States.
(6)Department of Neurology, Center for Translational and Computational 
Neuroimmunology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York, United 
States.

BACKGROUND: This study will identify cortical proteins that may provide motor 
resilience, the capacity to maintain motor function despite underlying 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) pathologies.
METHODS: We studied 850 decedents with postmortem indices of 10 ADRD pathologies 
and proteome from dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex. Annual parkinsonian signs 
were assessed using a modified Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale. First, we 
adjusted linear models for ADRD pathologies to isolate resilience proteins, 
unrelated to ADRD pathologies, but that were related to linear motor decline. 
Next, functional mixed effects (FMEs) models were used to determine if 
resilience proteins were related to non-linear motor decline. Exploratory 
functional enrichment was then used to assess pathways underlying motor 
resilience proteins.
RESULTS: Mean age at death was 90 years (SD = 6.4), 69% female and 7 years 
follow-up. Adjusting linear models for age, sex, and ADRD pathologies, we 
isolated thirteen proteins that may provide motor resilience (Bonferroni 
correction p < 5 × 10-6). FME models showed, that on average, progression of 
parkinsonian signs was non-linear from 25 to 12 years before death, followed by 
accelerated linear decline until death. Five of thirteen resilience proteins 
were also related to non-linear decline. Motor resilience may be supported by a 
coordinated network of proteins that help to preserve neuronal structure, 
cellular transport, and synaptic integrity, functions critical for diverse aging 
phenotypes.
CONCLUSIONS: Cortical proteins may provide motor resilience for both linear and 
non-linear motor decline. Further drug discovery targeting resilience proteins 
may yield therapies that can reduce motor impairment even in the absence of 
treatments for ADRD pathologies.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com .

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glaf144
PMID: 40613686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. J Dermatol. 2025 Aug;52(8):1304-1313. doi: 10.1111/1346-8138.17809. Epub 2025
 Jul 4.

Exploration of Drugs Associated With the Development of Bullous Pemphigoid: A 
Nationwide Study.

Kim MJ(1), Kim BR(1)(2), Lee KH(3), Ju HJ(4), Bae JM(4), Choi CW(1)(2), Youn 
SW(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Seongnam, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Applied Statistics, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Dermatology, St Vincent's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is an autoimmune blistering skin disorder with an 
increasing incidence, particularly among older adults. Given the role of 
medications in developing drug-associated BP (DABP), exploring drugs that cause 
DABP is crucial for prescribing appropriate drugs to prevent BP development. 
This study aimed to identify drugs associated with DABP. In this nationwide 
retrospective cohort study, we compared 5066 patients newly diagnosed with BP 
with 10 132 matched controls. We first established a comprehensive drug list of 
all medications used in our country and conducted a case-control study to 
identify candidate drugs associated with DABP. To validate these associations, 
we performed a separate cohort study, enrolling patients with a confirmed 
diagnosis of BP and matched controls. In the screening stage, 88 drugs were 
associated with an increased risk of DABP, while 27 drugs were linked with a 
reduced risk. Validation confirmed that 78 drugs increased the risk of DABP, 
whereas 22 drugs lowered it. Among the candidate drugs, anti-diabetic 
medications, including dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4) inhibitors and 
sulfonylureas, neuropsychiatric drugs such as benserazide and carbidopa (used 
for Parkinson's disease) and donepezil and memantine (for Alzheimer's disease), 
increased the risk of DABP. Conversely, several anti-inflammatory medications, 
including meloxicam and celecoxib and lipid-lowering agents, such as 
rosuvastatin and atorvastatin, have been found to lower the risk of DABP. 
Lastly, diazepam, diltiazem, and Ginkgo biloba extracts exhibited protective 
effects against DABP development. This nationwide study, employing an unbiased 
analysis of all medications in our country, highlights a substantial number of 
medications linked to the development of DABP. Our study provides practical 
insights for drug selection to prevent the development of DABP in elderly 
patients.

© 2025 Japanese Dermatological Association.

DOI: 10.1111/1346-8138.17809
PMID: 40613611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70379. doi: 10.1002/alz.70379.

A novel approach to resilience and its links with education and Alzheimer's 
disease genetics.

Carrigan M(1)(2)(3), Bocancea DI(1)(2), Vogel J(4), van Loenhoud AC(1), Tesi 
N(5)(6), Barkhof F(7)(8), Lucassen PJ(3), van der Flier WM(1)(9), Krugers HJ(3), 
Van der Lee SJ(1)(5), Ossenkoppele R(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Faculty of Science, Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Faculty of Medicine, SciLifLab, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(5)Section Genomics of Neurodegenerative Diseases and Aging, Department of 
Clinical Genetics, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(6)Delft Bioinformatics Lab, Delft University of Technology, Delft, the 
Netherlands.
(7)Queen Square Institute of Neurology and Centre for Medical Image Computing, 
University College London, Queen Square, London, UK.
(8)Department of Radiology & Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(9)Department of Epidemiology & Data Science, Amsterdam UMC location Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Cognitive resilience refers to maintaining cognitive function 
despite Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology.
METHODS: We analyzed amyloid-positive individuals across clinical stages of AD 
in two cohorts: the Amsterdam Dementia Cohort (ADC, N = 1036) and Alzheimer's 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI, N = 685). Cognitive resilience was 
conceptualized from a canonical correlation analysis of magnetic resonance 
imaging and neuropsychological data in each cohort separately. Model validation 
involved education as a resilience proxy and key genetic factors (apolipoprotein 
E [APOE] ε4 and APOE ε2) of AD. We explored associations between 83 AD risk loci 
and cognitive resilience.
RESULTS: Resilience was correlated with education (ADC: β = 0.144, p < 0.001; 
ADNI: β = 0.149, p < 0.001) and APOE ε4 (βmeta-analysis = -0.052, p = 0.014). 
Exploratory single nucleotide polymorphism meta-analysis identified potential 
involvement of genetic variants around genes UNC5CL, USP6NL, and TPCN1 in lower, 
and genes COX7C and MINDY2 in higher resilience.
DISCUSSION: Our novel resilience approach showed conceptual validity and 
potential for future discovery of resilience-related genetic variants.
HIGHLIGHTS: ·We define a novel approach to resilience using canonical 
correlation analysis (CCA). ·Apolipoprotein E ε4 is linked to lower resilience, 
suggesting increased vulnerability. ·Genetic loci around COX7C and MINDY2 are 
potentially involved in higher resilience. ·This novel approach may be used for 
multi-cohort studies such as genome-wide association studies in the future.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70379
PMCID: PMC12231230
PMID: 40613482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Frederik Barkhof is a steering committee or data 
safety monitoring board member for Biogen, Merck, Eisai and Prothena, advisory 
board member for Combinostics, Scottish Brain Sciences, Alzheimer Europe. He is 
a consultant for Roche, Celltrion, Rewind Therapeutics, Merck, Bracco, and has 
research agreements with ADDI, Merck, Biogen, GE Healthcare, Roche. Finally, he 
is co‐founder and shareholder of Queen Square Analytics LTD. Jacob Vogel has 
received consultancy/speaker fees from Manifest Technologies, Inc. Wiesje M. van 
der Flier has been an invited speaker at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD 
Neurology (Medscape), NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council, 
and she participated in advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc, Roche, and Eli Lilly. 
She is a member of the steering committee of EVOKE/EVOKE+ (NovoNordisk). All 
funding is paid to her institution. She is consultant to Oxford Health Policy 
Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA Inc, and Eisai. All funding is paid to her 
institution. She is member of the steering committee of PAVE, and Think Brain 
Health, was associate editor of Alzheimer's Research & Therapy in 2020/2021, and 
currently is associate editor at Brain, and is member of Supervisory Board (Raad 
van Toezicht) Trimbos Instituut. Rik Ossenkoppele has received research 
funding/support from  Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen Research & Development, 
Roche, Quanterix, and Optina Diagnostics; has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by GE Healthcare; received speaker fees from Springer; is an advisory 
board member for Asceneuron and a steering committee member for Biogen and 
Bristol Myers Squibb. All the aforementioned has been paid to his institutions. 
He is an editorial board member of Alzheimer's Research & Therapy and the 
European Journal of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging. The other authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare. Author disclosures are available in 
the supporting information.


49. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70346. doi: 10.1002/alz.70346.

Tau burden is best captured by magnitude and extent: Tau-MaX as a measure of 
global tau.

Brown CA(1), Das SR(1), Cousins KAQ(1), Tropea TF(1), Plotkin AC(1)(2), Detre 
JA(1)(3), Yushkevich PA(3), McMillan CT(1), Lee EB(2), Shaw LM(2), Nasrallah 
IM(3); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative; Wolk DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2025 Jan 14:2025.01.13.25320488. doi: 10.1101/2025.01.13.25320488.

INTRODUCTION: Tau burden consists of both spatial spread and local accumulation, 
but no study has combined these measures into a single metric to capture overall 
global tau burden. Here we investigate a new measure combining magnitude and 
extent-Tau-MaX-as a marker of Alzheimer's disease (AD) severity.
METHODS: A total of 1077 18F-flortaucipir positron emission tomography scans 
were analyzed using Gaussian mixture models to identify tau+ regions and 
quantify magnitude of accumulation. We assessed Tau-MaX across the AD spectrum 
and compared associations of plasma biomarkers and cognition to global Tau-MaX, 
extent, and magnitude.
RESULTS: Tau-MaX dynamically captured an early shift in spatial spreading to 
later tau accumulation across the disease spectrum. Tau-MaX had robust 
associations with plasma biomarkers and cross-sectional and longitudinal 
cognition. Global Tau-MaX was equivalent to or superior to magnitude or extent 
measures alone.
DISCUSSION: Tau-MaX provides a region-agnostic measure of global tau burden that 
can be used to track disease progression across the AD continuum.
HIGHLIGHTS: We measured tau extent, magnitude, and a new combination of these 
metrics, Tau-MaX. Extent increases early in disease, while magnitude increases 
in later disease stages. Tau-MaX captures this shift and is closely associated 
with phosphorylated tau217 and cognition. Global Tau-MaX performed similarly to 
or better than meta-region of interest tau magnitude or extent. Tau-MaX provides 
a region-agnostic measure of tau burden to track progression.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70346
PMCID: PMC12231225
PMID: 40613479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C.A.B., S.R.D., J.A.D., P.A.Y., K.A.Q.C., 
T.F.T., and C.T.M. declare no competing interests. Ilya Nasrallah has served on 
the scientific advisory board for Eisai and done educational speaking for 
Biogen. Alice Chen‐Plotkin has a patent licensed to Prevail Therapeutics for 
genetic approaches to treating frontotemporal dementia. Leslie Shaw has served 
on scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Biogen, Roche 
Diagnostics, Fujirebio, Siemens, and Diadem and has given lectures for Biogen, 
Roche, and Fujirebio. Edward Lee has served as a paid consultant for Wavebreak 
Therapeutics and Eli Lilly. David Wolk has served as a paid consultant for Eli 
Lilly and Beckman Coulter. He has also served on the DSMB for Functional 
Neuromodulation and GSK. He has received research support paid to his 
institution by Biogen. Data collection and sharing for the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is funded by the National Institute on Aging 
(National Institutes of Health Grant U19 AG024904). The grantee organization is 
the Northern California Institute for Research and Education. In the past, ADNI 
has also received funding from the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and 
Bioengineering, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, and private sector 
contributions through the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health 
(FNIH) including generous contributions from the following: AbbVie; Alzheimer's 
Association; Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation; Araclon Biotech; BioClinica, 
Inc.; Biogen; Bristol‐Myers Squibb Company; CereSpir, Inc.; Cogstate; Eisai 
Inc.; Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Eli Lilly and Company; EuroImmun; F. 
Hoffmann‐La Roche Ltd and its affiliated company Genentech, Inc.; Fujirebio; GE 
Healthcare; IXICO Ltd.; Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy Research & Development, 
LLC; Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research &Development LLC; Lumosity; 
Lundbeck; Merck & Co., Inc.; Meso Scale Diagnostics, LLC; NeuroRx Research; 
Neurotrack Technologies; Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation; Pfizer Inc.; 
Piramal Imaging; Servier; Takeda Pharmaceutical Company; and Transition 
Therapeutics. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


50. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70426. doi: 10.1002/alz.70426.

Evaluation of plasma p-tau217 for detecting amyloid pathology in a heterogeneous 
community-based cohort.

Rudolph MD(1), Sutphen CL(1), Register TC(1), Lockhart SN(1), Rundle MM(1), 
Hughes TM(1), Bateman JR(1), Sai KKS(1), Whitlow CT(1), Craft S(1), Mielke 
MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2025 Jan 20:2025.01.20.25320851. doi: 10.1101/2025.01.20.25320851.

INTRODUCTION: Studies suggest excellent performance of plasma phosphorylated tau 
217 (p-tau217) for detecting amyloid pathology, though studies in more 
representative populations are needed to validate previously determined 
cutpoints.
METHODS: Plasma p-tau217 utility for detecting amyloid pathology (Aβ) via 
amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) was assessed in a heterogeneous, 
community-based cohort in the Wake Forest Alzheimer's Disease Research Center 
(WFADRC). Participants with baseline plasma data (n = 598) were 21% Black; 313 
cognitive unimpaired (CU), 214 mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 64 dementia 
(DEM); 49% prediabetic, 44% hypertensive, 29% overweight/obese; and 64% had 
mild-to-moderate kidney disease. Gaussian-mixture models, logistic regression, 
and receiver operating curve analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Plasma p-tau217 was associated with elevated Aβ deposition and 
accurately classified Aβ-positive participants (PET [n = 307]: area under the 
curve [AUC] = 94%-97%, cutpoint ≥ 0.338 pg/mL).
DISCUSSION: Plasma p-tau217 is an accurate indicator of amyloid pathology in a 
heterogeneous cohort and is superior to other plasma biomarkers assessed.
HIGHLIGHTS: The Wake Forest Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (WFADRC) is a 
heterogeneous cohort. p-tau217 levels were lower, on average, in cognitively 
unimpaired participants, females, and Black participants. Plasma p-tau217 
classified amyloid positron emission tomography (PET)-positive individuals with 
high precision and performed better than p-tau181. Cutpoints and reference 
ranges of plasma p-tau217 were lower compared to recently published thresholds. 
Combining cutpoint approaches, a four-tier system captured cohort heterogeneity.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70426
PMCID: PMC12231229
PMID: 40613474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Drs. Rudolph, Sutphen, Register, Rundle, Hughes, 
Solingapuram Sai, and Whitlow, have no conflicts of interest to disclose. Drs. 
Bateman and Lockhart receive funding from the Alzheimer's Association. Dr. 
Bateman has also received honoraria from Efficient CME, PeerView CME, and Novo 
Nordisck in the last two years. Dr. Craft reports disclosures for vTv 
Therapeutics, T3D Therapeutics, Cyclerion Inc., and Cognito Inc. Dr. Mielke 
consults for or serves on advisory boards for Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Merck, 
Roche, and Siemens Healthineers. Author disclosures are available in the 
Supporting Information.


51. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70162. doi: 10.1002/alz.70162.

Unravelling the plasma proteome: Pioneering biomarkers for differential dementia 
diagnosis.

Gezegen H(1)(2), Alaylıoğlu M(3), Şahin E(2), Swann O(1), Veleva E(1), Güven 
G(4), Yaman U(1), Salih DA(1)(5), Bilgiç B(2), Hanağası H(2), Gürvit H(2), Emre 
M(2), Gezen-Ak D(3), Dursun E(3), Zetterberg H(1)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Hardy 
J(1)(5)(8), Heslegrave A(1)(5), Shoai M(1)(5), Samanci B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(2)Behavioral Neurology and Movement Disorders Unit, Department of Neurology, 
Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University, Capa, Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Brain and Neurodegenerative Disorders Research Laboratories, Department of 
Neuroscience, Institute of Neurological Sciences, Istanbul 
University-Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)Department of Genetics, Aziz Sancar Institute of Experimental Medicine, 
Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(5)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(7)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Diagnosing Alzheimer's disease (AD) is challenging due to 
overlapping symptoms with other dementias and the invasiveness of current 
biomarkers. This study introduces the NULISA platform, a novel proteomics 
technology, to evaluate diagnostic accuracy of known biomarkers and uncover 
novel biomarkers underlying different dementias.
METHODS: We analyzed plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from 248 
participants diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies 
(DLB), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). 
Plasma biomarkers were evaluated using regression models, receiver operating 
characteristics curve (ROC) analysis, and pathway enrichment.
RESULTS: Plasma phosphorylated Tau217 (pTau217) demonstrated the highest 
diagnostic accuracy for AD, DLB, and FTD (area under the curve [AUCs]: 0.9, 
0.84, and 0.79, respectively). CXCL1 (fractalkine), synaptosomal-associated 
protein 25 (SNAP25), triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1 (TREM1), 
β-synuclein, and tyrosine kinase (TEK) are expressed differently in DLB and FTD 
than AD. Ingenuity pathway analyses revealed astrocytic, synaptic, and 
inflammatory pathways as shared and distinct mechanisms across these dementia 
types.
CONCLUSION: Our findings establish plasma pTau217 as a robust diagnostic marker. 
This study provides new plasma biomarkers for differential diagnosis of 
dementias with a noninvasive method.
HIGHLIGHTS: Plasma pTau217 showed high diagnostic accuracy for AD, DLB, and FTD. 
CXCL1, SNAP25, TREM1, β-synuclein, and TEK are novel markers distinguishing 
other dementias from AD. Noninvasive plasma biomarkers enable diagnosis and 
differentiation of dementias.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70162
PMCID: PMC12231214
PMID: 40613333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, 
Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given 
lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work). A.J.H. has consulted Quanterix and Lilly. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


52. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Jun 19;12:1618550. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1618550.
 eCollection 2025.

Transfer deep learning and explainable AI framework for brain tumor and 
Alzheimer's detection across multiple datasets.

Alsubai S(1), Ojo S(2), Nathaniel TI(3), Ayari M(4), Baili J(5), Almadhor A(6), 
Al Hejaili A(7).

Author information:
(1)College of Computer Engineering and Sciences, Prince Sattam bin Abdulaziz 
University, Al-Kharj, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering, 
Anderson University, Anderson, SC, United States.
(3)School of Medicine Greenville, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, 
United States.
(4)Faculty of Computing and Information Technology, Northern Border University, 
Arar, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Computer Engineering, College of Computer Science, King Khalid 
University, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Computer Engineering and Networks, College of Computer and 
Information Sciences, Jouf University, Sakaka, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Faculty of Computers and Information Technology, Computer Science Department, 
University of Tabuk, Tabuk, Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: The pressing need for accurate diagnostic tools in the medical 
field, particularly for diseases such as brain tumors and Alzheimer's, poses 
significant challenges to timely and effective treatment.
METHODS: This study presents a novel approach to MRI image classification by 
integrating transfer learning with Explainable AI (XAI) techniques. The proposed 
method utilizes a hybrid CNN-VGG16 model, which leverages pre-trained features 
from the VGG16 architecture to enhance classification performance across three 
distinct MRI datasets: brain tumor classification, Alzheimer's disease 
detection, and a third dataset of brain tumors. A comprehensive preprocessing 
pipeline ensures optimal input quality and variability, including image 
normalization, resizing, and data augmentation.
RESULTS: The model achieves accuracy rates of 94% on the brain tumor dataset, 
81% on the augmented Alzheimer dataset, and 93% on the third dataset, 
underscoring its capability to differentiate various neurological conditions. 
Furthermore, the integration of SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) provides a 
transparent view of the model's decision-making process, allowing clinicians to 
understand which regions of the MRI scans contribute to the classification 
outcomes.
DISCUSSION: This research demonstrates the potential of combining advanced deep 
learning techniques with explainability to improve diagnostic accuracy and trust 
in AI applications within healthcare.

Copyright © 2025 Alsubai, Ojo, Nathaniel, Ayari, Baili, Almadhor and Al Hejaili.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1618550
PMCID: PMC12222156
PMID: 40612575

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


53. Front Mol Med. 2025 Jun 19;5:1569717. doi: 10.3389/fmmed.2025.1569717. 
eCollection 2025.

Neural stem cells in adult neurogenesis and their therapeutic applications in 
neurodegenerative disorders: a concise review.

Bayleyegn Derso T(1), Mengistu BA(2), Demessie Y(2), Fenta MD(3), Getnet K(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine, Mersa Agriculture College, Woldia University, 
Wollo, Ethiopia.
(2)2 Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine and 
Animal Sciences, Univeristy of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Veterinary Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine 
and Animal Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(4)Department of Veterinary Epidemiology and Public Health, College of 
Veterinary Medicine and Animal Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.

The idea of ​​using stem cell therapy to treat neurodegenerative diseases has 
undergone significant change over the years and has made significant progress 
recently. Neurotrophins, growth factors, and transcription factors regulate 
neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation. Disruption of these 
regulatory mechanisms, including negative feedback, can contribute to 
neurodegenerative diseases. Contemporary research highlights a growing global 
concern regarding diverse neurodegenerative disorders affecting both humans and 
animals. These conditions arise from neuronal cell death, axonal regeneration 
failure, and impairment of neuronal structure. Current pharmacological 
treatments primarily offer symptomatic relief without altering disease 
progression. Consequently, researchers are investigating innovative therapeutic 
strategies, with neural stem cell therapy emerging as a promising avenue. Adult 
neural stem cells, embryonic neural stem cells, and induced pluripotent stem 
cells represent potential cell sources, although challenges such as ethical 
considerations and technical limitations remain. The therapeutic application of 
neural stem cells holds significant promise for addressing neurodegenerative 
diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, stroke, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, 
spinal cord injury, and multiple sclerosis. Neural stem cell therapy aims to 
replenish lost neurons and promote neural regeneration in these conditions. 
While clinical trials have demonstrated some success in improving cognitive and 
motor functions in individuals with neurodegenerative impairments, challenges 
such as immunological rejection, the identification of compatible cell sources, 
ethical concerns, treatment efficacy, and potential side effects necessitate 
thorough investigation before widespread clinical implementation. Despite these 
challenges, neural stem cell-based therapy offers substantial potential for 
revolutionizing the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases and central nervous 
system injuries. This paper, therefore, explores adult neurogenesis and the 
therapeutic potential of neural stem cells within the dynamic field of 
neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Bayleyegn Derso, Mengistu, Demessie, Fenta and Getnet.

DOI: 10.3389/fmmed.2025.1569717
PMCID: PMC12222294
PMID: 40612293

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


54. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):1087-1096. doi: 10.1177/13872877251351182. 
Epub 2025 Jul 4.

Inherited prion disease caused by a novel frameshift mutation of PRNP resulting 
in protein truncation at codon 157.

Holm-Mercer L(1)(2), Mok TH(1)(2), Sequeira D(1)(2), Coysh T(1)(2), Rudge 
P(1)(2), Ramadan H(3), Darwent L(1), Campbell T(1), Murphy T(1), Smith C(4), 
Ritchie D(4), Brandner S(5)(6), Jaunmuktane Z(6)(7), Collinge J(1)(2), Mead 
S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)MRC Prion Unit at UCL, UCL Institute of Prion Diseases, University College 
London, London, UK.
(2)NHS National Prion Clinic, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, 
University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(3)Bradford Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Bradford Royal Infirmary, 
Bradford, UK.
(4)Academic Department of Neuropathology, Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(6)Division of Neuropathology, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, 
London, UK.
(7)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, UCL Queen Square Institute 
of Neurology, University College London, London, UK.

BackgroundPrP systemic amyloidosis is increasingly recognized as a novel 
inherited prion disease (IPD) syndrome caused by PRNP C-terminal truncating 
mutations. As well as systemic manifestations they cause gradually progressive 
cognitive impairment with neurofibrillary tangle pathology which can be mistaken 
for Alzheimer's disease (AD).ObjectiveWe describe the clinical, biomarker and 
neuropathological features of a novel frameshift mutation of PRNP resulting in 
protein truncation at codon 157.MethodsThe clinical phenotype and biomarker 
findings, including plasma biomarkers measured using Single Molecule Array 
(SiMOA) technology are reported for affected living individuals, with 
neuropathological examination available for the index case.ResultsThe Y157X PRNP 
mutation has resulted in a phenotype of gradually progressive cognitive decline, 
peripheral sensory and autonomic polyneuropathy, and gastrointestinal symptoms, 
with one case presenting with recurrent episodes of nausea, vomiting and 
electrolyte derangement requiring intensive care unit admission. Plasma 
biomarkers revealed an AD-like pattern with raised neurofilament light chain 
(NfL), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and phospho-tau 181 (P-tau 181) in 
affected individuals. On neuropathological examination there was PrP-cerebral 
amyloid angiopathy (CAA) and neurofibrillary tau pathology.ConclusionsWe present 
the clinical, biomarker and pathological findings on investigation of this 
family and provide further evidence for the association of truncation mutations 
with PrP systemic amyloidosis.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251351182
PMCID: PMC12284330
PMID: 40611688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: J.C. is a Director and 
Shareholder of D-Gen Limited, an academic spin-out company working in the field 
of prion disease diagnosis, decontamination and therapeutics. The remaining 
authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


55. Stat Methods Med Res. 2025 Aug;34(8):1605-1616. doi:
10.1177/09622802251348796.  Epub 2025 Jul 4.

Closed-form confidence intervals for saved time using summary statistics in 
Alzheimer's disease studies.

Shan G(1), Zhang Y(1), Wang G(2), Wu SS(3), Ding AA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(2)School of Medicine, Washington University St Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(3)Health Informatics Institute, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA.
(4)Department of Mathematics, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, USA.

Saved time is used in Alzheimer's disease (AD) trials as an easy interpretation 
of the treatment benefit to communicate with patients, family members, and 
caregivers. The projection approach is frequently applied to estimate saved time 
and its confidence interval (CI) by using the placebo or treatment disease 
progression curves. The estimated standard error of saved time by using these 
existing methods does not account for the correlation between outcomes. In 
addition, there was no closed-form CI for researchers to use in practice. To 
fill this critical gap, we derive the closed-form CI for saved time estimated 
from the placebo or treatment disease progression curves. We compare them with 
regard to coverage probability and interval width under various disease 
progression patterns that are commonly observed in AD symptomatic therapy and 
disease-modifying therapy trials. Data from the phase 3 donanemab trials are 
used to illustrate the application of the new CI methods.

DOI: 10.1177/09622802251348796
PMID: 40611675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Am Heart Assoc. 2025 Jul 15;14(14):e037817. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.124.037817.
Epub  2025 Jul 3.

Long-Term Incidence of Dementia Following Transient Ischemic Attack: A 
Longitudinal Cohort Study.

Lioutas VA(1)(2), Peloso G(2)(3), Romero JR(2)(4), Aparicio H(2)(4), Gonzales 
M(5), Werry A(6), Himali D(2)(4), Himali J(2)(7)(8), Banerjee A(2), Gosh S(2), 
Ramachandran VS(2)(7), Beiser A(2)(3), Seshadri S(2)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical 
School Boston MA USA.
(2)Framingham Heart Study Framingham MA USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics Boston University Boston MA USA.
(4)Department of Neurology Boston University Medical Center Boston MA USA.
(5)Jona Goldrich Center for Alzheimers and Memory Disorders, Cedars-Sinai Los 
Angeles CA USA.
(6)Department of Neurology University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio San Antonio TX USA.
(7)The University of Texas School of Public Health San Antonio San Antonio TX 
USA.
(8)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases San 
Antonio TX USA.

BACKGROUND: The association between transient ischemic attack (TIA) and dementia 
is incompletely characterized. Determining the cognitive sequalae of TIA is 
important as it can function as an early warning sign or additional risk factor 
for dementia. We sought to determine the long-term incidence of post-TIA 
dementia and examined whether TIA prompts changes in vascular risk factors.
METHODS: Nested matched longitudinal cohort study within the community-based 
Framingham Heart Study. A prospectively collected sample of participants without 
dementia or transient ischemic attack were matched on age and sex (5:1) to 
participants with first incident TIA >60 years. The primary outcome of interest 
was the 20-year incidence of all-cause dementia.
RESULTS: The study matched 297 participants with TIA, 141 (47%) men, mean age 
72.7±7.7 years, with 1485 controls without TIA. People with TIA were more likely 
to have hypertension, coronary heart disease, and atrial fibrillation. Over a 
median of 8.9 years of follow up, 57 (19%) participants with TIA and 353 (24%) 
controls without TIA developed dementia (hazard ratio [HR], 0.93 [95% CI, 
0.71-1.24], P=0.63). Adjusting for stroke and accounting for the competing risk 
of death did not alter this association. Participants with TIA were more likely 
to have a reduction in the frequency of smoking (18% to 11%, P=0.025), an 
increase in anticoagulant use from 3% to 18%, (P=0.0005), and a marginal 
increase in aspirin use (46% to 61%, P=0.052).
CONCLUSIONS: We found no significant difference in dementia incidence over a 
20-year follow-up period compared with matched TIA-free controls. Our findings 
suggest that TIA prompts treatment changes and behavioral shifts that lower 
cardiovascular risk. Whether these are sufficient to mitigate subsequent 
dementia risk remains to be tested in prospective randomized studies.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.124.037817
PMID: 40611491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70462. doi: 10.1002/alz.70462.

Small-diffusible aggregates, plaques, tangles, and dynamic equilibria: 
Untangling Alzheimer's disease.

Fertan E(1)(2), Meisl G(1)(2), Klenerman D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(2)UK Dementia Research Institute at University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Beta-amyloid plaques and hyperphosphorylated tau tangles are the 
neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease; however, their relevance in 
the pathophysiology is not fully understood. It has been suggested that these 
larger and insoluble aggregates may not be the most toxic forms of beta-amyloid 
and tau in Alzheimer's disease, and the disease progression may actually be 
promoted by the small-diffusible aggregates.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We combine the recent findings from our group and other key 
research to put forward the hypotheses that the formation of the 
small-diffusible aggregates of beta-amyloid and tau and their larger insoluble 
counterparts is not a linear process.
DISCUSSION: While the small-diffusible aggregate formation of beta-amyloid and 
tau is a passive process, regulated by thermodynamic equilibria, the formation 
of large-insoluble aggregates is an active process, regulated by microglia and 
neurons, which to an extent is a protective mechanism against the toxicity of 
the smaller aggregates.
HIGHLIGHTS: Plaques and tangles may be made by active processes in Alzheimer's 
disease. The small-soluble aggregates may be the more toxic species in 
Alzheimer's disease. Pathology may be caused by the imbalance of production and 
clearance of aggregates. Plaques and tangle formation may be attempts to restore 
the homeostatic equilibrium.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70462
PMCID: PMC12226248
PMID: 40611371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Emre Fertan and David Klenerman have no 
conflicts of interest. Georg Meisl is a consultant for WaveBreak Therapeutics, 
yet this manuscript has no relationship with Dr. Meisl's role at this company. 
Author disclosures are available in Supporting Information.


58. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Jul;40(7):e70125. doi: 10.1002/gps.70125.

Utilization Patterns and Clinical Factors Associated With Hospitalization in 
Early-Stage Dementia With Lewy Bodies.

Wyman-Chick KA(1)(2), Chrenka EAB(2), Kane JPM(3), Barrett MJ(4), Miller MJ(5), 
Schousboe JT(2)(6), Werner AM(2), Rossom RC(2).

Author information:
(1)Struthers Parkinson's Center, Golden Valley, Minnesota, USA.
(2)HealthPartners Institute, Bloomington, Minnesota, USA.
(3)Queens University Belfast, Center for Public Health, Room 02.026, Institute 
of Clinical Sciences Belfast B, Royal Victoria Hospital, Northern Ireland, UK.
(4)Department of Neurology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, 
Virginia, USA.
(5)Mid-Atlantic Permanente Research Institute (MAPRI), Rockville, Maryland, USA.
(6)Park Nicollet Department of Rheumatology, Bloomington, Minnesota, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Characterize patterns of hospitalization and emergency department 
(ED) visits in early-stage dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB).
METHODS: We analyzed electronic health records and claims data from a U.S. 
healthcare system up to 3 years before/after initial diagnosis of DLB (n = 175), 
Alzheimer's disease (AD, n = 2478), or vascular dementia (VD, n = 513). Controls 
were randomly matched 3:1 with the DLB group on sex/age (n = 525). Generalized 
linear models were used to compare rates and types of utilization between 
diagnosis group with adjustment for patient characteristics.
RESULTS: Patients with DLB had significantly greater rates of hospitalization 
and ED visits compared to patients with AD (Incidence Rate Ratio (IRR): 1.46, 
95% CI 1.24, 1.73, IRR: 1.46, 95% CI 1.29, 1.77, respectively) and controls 
(IRR: 1.77, 95% CI 1.46, 2.14, IRR: 2.21, 95% CI 1.82, 2.69, respectively) and 
ED visits compared to those with VD (IRR: 1.24, 95% CI 1.03, 1.50). Patients 
with DLB were over 50% more likely to have a hospitalization associated with 
falls compared to those with AD and VD (OR: 1.75, 95% CI 1.16, 2.62 OR: 1.56, 
95% CI: 1.01, 2.48, respectively). Compared to patients with AD, DLB patients 
were found to have 2.9-time higher likelihood of experiencing at least one 
hospitalization (Odds Ratio: 2.89. 95% CI: 1.17, 6.45).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with DLB were substantially more likely to utilize ED 
services than patients with AD, VD, or controls, and more likely to experience 
hospitalizations compared to AD and control groups. Fall prevention and 
psychiatric treatment may be particularly important in reducing hospitalizations 
in early-stage DLB.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.70125
PMID: 40611368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Neurol Ther. 2025 Oct;14(5):1863-1888. doi: 10.1007/s40120-025-00790-2. Epub 
2025 Jul 4.

Societal Costs and Efficiency of Subcutaneous versus Intravenous Lecanemab in 
Early Alzheimer's Disease: A U.S. Cost Comparison Model.

Tahami Monfared AA(1)(2), Barrows S(3), Fox L(3), Herbel B(3), Herring WL(3)(4), 
Krumbach A(3), Zhang Q(5).

Author information:
(1)Eisai Inc., 200 Metro Boulevard, Nutley, NJ, 07110, USA. 
amir_tahami@eisai.com.
(2)Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, McGill University, 845 
Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, QC, H3A 0G4, Canada. amir_tahami@eisai.com.
(3)RTI Health Solutions, 3040 East Cornwallis Road, Research Triangle Park, NC, 
27709, USA.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Eisai Inc., 200 Metro Boulevard, Nutley, NJ, 07110, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Intravenous (IV) therapies often impose significant burdens and 
costs on payers, providers, patients, and caregivers. A fixed-dose subcutaneous 
(SC) formulation may enhance convenience, improve outcomes, and reduce societal 
costs compared with weight-based IV dosing. This study estimated the relative 
societal value and cost implications of IV versus SC lecanemab administration 
for early Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the USA.
METHODS: A targeted literature review identified outcomes related to IV and SC 
modes of administration across therapeutic areas to inform and parameterize a 
cost-comparison model. The model incorporated direct treatment costs; economic 
value of administration time for providers, patients, and caregivers; and 
quality-of-life (QOL) impacts for patients and caregivers. Costs were estimated 
from a societal perspective over 4 years, including a per-patient head-to-head 
analysis and a population-level assessment accounting for population size, 
current treatment rates, and SC uptake. Scenario analyses evaluated the impact 
of key inputs and assumptions on study findings.
RESULTS: SC lecanemab was estimated to yield per-patient savings of 
$72,891-$80,925 over 4 years compared with IV administration, corresponding to 
annual savings of $18,223-$20,231 at willingness-to-pay thresholds of $150,000 
and $200,000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, respectively. Savings 
stemmed from a $40,638 reduction in treatment costs, $8151 decrease in 
administration time costs, and $24,102-$32,136 reduction in QOL-related costs. 
At the population level, assuming current treatment rates and 49.4% SC uptake, 
total savings of $3.16-$3.71 billion were projected over 4 years. Sensitivity 
analyses indicated per-patient savings varied based on site of care, IV drug 
wastage, and caregiver disutilities, while population-level savings were 
sensitive to treatment rates and SC uptake.
CONCLUSION: Subcutaneous lecanemab administration potentially offers substantial 
societal savings by lowering treatment costs, minimizing time demands, and 
relieving QOL burdens for patients and caregivers. These findings underscore the 
potential value of SC formulations in improving treatment delivery and 
alleviating AD economic impact; however, real-world data in AD are needed to 
further contextualize this comparison.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40120-025-00790-2
PMCID: PMC12450161
PMID: 40610846

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: Amir Abbas 
Tahami Monfared is an employee of Eisai Inc. and holds the position of Adjunct 
Professor of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health at McGill 
University. He also serves as an Associate Editor for the Journal of Alzheimer's 
Disease but does not receive honoraria for this role. Quanwu Zhang is an 
employee of Eisai Inc. Lindsey Fox, Brittney Herbel, William L Herring, and 
Alisha Krumbach are employees of RTI Health Solutions. Stephanie Barrows was an 
employee of RTI Health Solutions at the time this analysis was conducted. 
William L Herring is affiliated with research at the Karolinska Institutet but 
does not receive any compensation from this affiliation. This study was 
conducted by RTI Health Solutions under the direction of Eisai Inc. and was 
funded by Eisai Inc. Ethical Approval: This research is based on previously 
conducted studies and does not include any new research involving human 
participants or animals performed by the authors.


60. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2025 Aug;36(8):696-698. doi:
10.1016/j.tem.2025.06.006.  Epub 2025 Jul 2.

Microglial insulin resistance drives neurodegeneration.

Sun M(1), Mi W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, The First Medical Center of Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing 100730, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, The First Medical Center of Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing 100730, China. Electronic address: wwdd1962@163.com.

Brain insulin resistance (BIR) contributes to neurodegenerative diseases such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, Chen et al. revealed that microglial insulin 
signaling loss drives neuroinflammation and amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation, 
promoting AD progression. These findings provide insights for the prevention and 
treatment of AD and cognitive disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tem.2025.06.006
PMID: 40610268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.61. Adv Protein Chem Struct Biol. 2025;146:77-136. doi: 
10.1016/bs.apcsb.2024.11.012. Epub 2025 May 12.

Tau protein aggregation: A therapeutic target for neurodegenerative diseases.

Duggal A(1), Mahindru D(1), Baghel K(2), Mehrotra S(3), Prajapati VK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Punjab, 
India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, University of Delhi South Campus, Benito Juarez 
Road, Dhaula Kuan, New Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: sanjana.human@gndu.ac.in.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, University of Delhi South Campus, Benito Juarez 
Road, Dhaula Kuan, New Delhi, India. Electronic address: vkp@south.du.ac.in.

Tau protein, a critical element for neuronal structure, becomes pathogenic in 
numerous neurodegenerative diseases, particularly Alzheimer's disease and other 
tauopathies. Under normal conditions, tau stabilizes microtubules and supports 
essential cellular transport systems. However, in disease states, tau undergoes 
abnormal modifications-most notably hyperphosphorylation-causing it to detach 
from microtubules and aggregate into neurofibrillary tangles. These aggregates 
disrupt neuronal function, leading to progressive cognitive and motor deficits. 
This chapter provides a comprehensive overview of tau's structural properties, 
normal cellular roles, and the cascade of pathological changes that transform it 
into a neurotoxic agent. We examine current therapeutic strategies targeting 
tau, including efforts to inhibit its phosphorylation, prevent aggregation, and 
enhance its clearance from cells. Approaches such as kinase inhibitors, 
immunotherapies, and gene-based therapies are discussed in the context of their 
potential to halt or slow disease progression. Additionally, recent advancements 
in diagnostic tools-such as tau-specific PET imaging and blood biomarkers-are 
highlighted as transformative for early detection of the disease .

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.apcsb.2024.11.012
PMID: 40610078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Adv Protein Chem Struct Biol. 2025;146:161-178. doi: 
10.1016/bs.apcsb.2024.08.003. Epub 2024 Sep 11.

Heat shock proteins regulates Tau protein aggregation in Alzheimer's disease.

Chinnathambi S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurochemistry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro 
Sciences, Institute of National Importance, Bangalore, Karnataka, India. 
Electronic address: subashneuro@nimhans.ac.in.

Alzheimer's disease is one of the neurodegenerative diseases characterized by 
loss of integrity and function of the cell, leading to progressive neuronal loss 
and ultimately dementia. Tau is one of the most soluble protein mainly involved 
in assembly and disassembly of microtubules (MT) which helps in the anterograde 
and retrograde transport of cargos. However in AD conditions Tau is subjected to 
various insults such as hyperphosphorylation, glycation, glycosylation, 
truncation, acetylation, oxidation etc., which leads to the loss-of-function. 
Thus modified Tau loses its affinity for MT and aggregates to form toxic 
oligomers followed by matured neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) which attains 
cross-β structure. The cellular machinery such as chaperones, 
ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and lysosomes tries to resolve these 
aggregates and helps in its clearance. During AD pathology the cellular 
machinery fails to clear aggregates and leads to neuronal death. In this aspect 
several strategies have been employed to prevent Tau aggregation that includes 
inhibitors for kinases, activators for phosphatases, small molecule activators 
of heat shock protein response and small molecules that can prevent Tau 
aggregation and increases its association with chaperones.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.apcsb.2024.08.003
PMID: 40610073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Adv Protein Chem Struct Biol. 2025;146:1-34. doi:
10.1016/bs.apcsb.2024.11.008.  Epub 2025 Apr 18.

Proteostasis imbalance: Unraveling protein aggregation in neurodegenerative 
diseases and emerging therapeutic strategies.

Selvaraj C(1), Vijayalakshmi P(2), Desai D(3), Manoharan J(4).

Author information:
(1)CsrDD Lab, Bioinformatics Division, Department of Marine Biotechnology, AMET 
University, East Coast Road, Kanathur, Chennai, India. Electronic address: 
selva@csrdd.org.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Holy Cross College, 
Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Dr. D. Y. Patil Medical College Hospital and 
Research Centre, Dr. D. Y. Patil Vidyapeeth (Deemed to be University), Pimpri, 
Pune, India.
(4)Electric Power Research Institute, 1300 W W T Harris Blvd, Charlotte, NC, 
United States.

Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's, and 
ALS are defined by the accumulation of misfolded and aggregated proteins, which 
impair cellular function and result in progressive neuronal death. This chapter 
examines the critical function of proteostasis-cellular protein homeostasis-in 
sustaining neuronal health and its disruption as a key factor in disease 
progression. Proteostasis is upheld by a complex array of mechanisms, which 
encompass molecular chaperones, the ubiquitin-proteasome system, 
autophagy-lysosomal pathways, and mitochondrial quality control. Impairment of 
these systems leads to protein misfolding and aggregation, resulting in toxic 
cellular environments that promote neurodegeneration. Novel therapeutic 
approaches focus on restoring proteostasis through the enhancement of cellular 
protein folding, degradation, and clearance mechanisms. This encompasses small 
molecule chaperones, gene therapy, RNA-based treatments, immunotherapy, 
autophagy inducers, and stem cell-based approaches, each addressing distinct 
components of the proteostasis network to mitigate or prevent disease 
progression. While these therapies show potential, challenges persist, such as 
possible side effects, selective targeting, and the efficacy of blood-brain 
barrier penetration. Personalized medicine and combination therapies customized 
to specific disease profiles are increasingly recognized for their potential to 
improve efficacy and safety. This chapter consolidates recent developments in 
therapies aimed at proteostasis, addresses the challenges encountered in 
clinical applications, and outlines potential future directions for 
transformative treatments. Ongoing research indicates that proteostasis 
modulation may significantly alter the course of neurodegenerative disease 
treatment, potentially enhancing patient outcomes and quality of life.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.apcsb.2024.11.008
PMID: 40610071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Biol Chem. 2025 Aug;301(8):110432. doi: 10.1016/j.jbc.2025.110432. Epub
2025  Jul 1.

Targeting HIF-P4H-2 in APP/PS1 Alzheimer's mouse model improves glucose 
metabolism, reduces dystrophic neuritis, and maintains exploratory activity.

Kurkela M(1), Dvořáková L(2), Koivisto H(2), Uusitalo M(3), Kursula P(4), 
Kettunen M(2), Gröhn O(2), Tanila H(2), Koivunen P(5).

Author information:
(1)Biocenter Oulu, Research Unit of Extracellular Matrix and Hypoxia, Faculty of 
Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(2)A.I. Virtanen Institute for Molecular Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(3)Research Unit of Protein and Structural Biology, Faculty of Biochemistry and 
Molecular Medicine, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(4)Research Unit of Protein and Structural Biology, Faculty of Biochemistry and 
Molecular Medicine, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland; Department of 
Biomedicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway; LINXS Institute of Advanced 
Neutron and X-Ray Science, Lund, Sweden.
(5)Biocenter Oulu, Research Unit of Extracellular Matrix and Hypoxia, Faculty of 
Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland. 
Electronic address: peppi.koivunen@oulu.fi.

Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia with limited treatment 
options. We asked whether activation of the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) 
pathway via genetic deficiency of HIF prolyl 4-hydoxylase-2 (HIF-P4H-2; also 
known as PHD2/EGLN1) could be an Alzheimer's disease-modifying therapy using 
transgenic amyloid precursor protein (APP)/presenilin 1 (PS1) female mice. At 12 
months of age, APP/PS1/Hif-p4h-2gt/gt mice had 20% less cortical amyloid-β (Aβ) 
and less dystrophic neurites around amyloid plaques compared with APP/PS1 mice 
used as controls. Compared with controls, APP/PS1/Hif-p4h-2gt/gt mice were 
leaner, had better glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity, and higher 
expression levels of an HIF target, glucose transporter 1, in the brain. These 
changes associated with lesser Aβ toxicity in APP/PS1/Hif-p4h-2gt/gt mice 
linking indices of neurodegeneration with HIF-P4H-2 deficiency-mediated 
amelioration on brain and systemic glucose metabolism. In open field and 
dark-light tests, APP/PS1/Hif-p4h-2gt/gt mice maintained their behavior during 
aging, whereas controls showed a change by 60% to 80% in exploratory activity 
and anxiety parameters from 6 to 12 months. Maintenance of behavior associated 
with cortical Hif-p4h-2 mRNA downregulation, lesser Aβ toxicity, and lower white 
adipose tissue inflammation in APP/PS1/Hif-p4h-2gt/gt mice. Altogether, these 
data connect activation of the HIF pathway via HIF-P4H-2 deficiency to 
neuroprotection in the APP/PS1 Alzheimer's mouse model.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbc.2025.110432
PMCID: PMC12314380
PMID: 40609789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest with the contents of this article.


65. Respir Med. 2025 Sep;246:108228. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2025.108228. Epub 2025
Jul  1.

Psychometric evaluation of the exercise self-regulatory efficacy scale using 
objective measures of physical functioning in persons with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease.

Bamonti PM(1), Wingood M(2), Robinson SA(3), Rose GA(4), Moy ML(5).

Author information:
(1)Research & Development Service, VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA; 
Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic 
address: patricia.bamonti@va.gov.
(2)Department of Implementation Science, Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA; Sticht Center for Healthy Aging and 
Alzheimer's Prevention, Internal Medicine, Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine, 
Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(3)Center for Health Optimization and Implementation Research, VA Bedford 
Healthcare System, Bedford, MA, USA; The Pulmonary Center, Boston University 
School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Research & Development Service, VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Research & Development Service, VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA; 
Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine Section, VA Boston Healthcare System, 
Boston, MA, USA; Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: Physical activity (PA) promotion is an essential component of 
managing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Exercise self-efficacy is 
a primary indicator of exercise engagement. The Exercise Self-Regulatory 
Efficacy scale (Ex-SRES) was developed and validated in persons with COPD 
recruited at pulmonary rehabilitation programs who self-reported exercise 
behaviors. Our study evaluates its psychometric properties using objective 
assessments of PA and exercise capacity.
METHODS: Secondary analyses were performed on baseline assessments of U.S. 
Veterans with COPD who participated in two PA intervention studies (N = 210; age 
M = 69 ± 8; 97 % male; 91.9 % White). The Ex-SRES asked how confident 
participants felt they could exercise 3X/week for 20 min given 16 barriers. The 
Omron HJ-720 or Fitbit Zip pedometer assessed daily step counts for 7-10 days 
and the 6-min walk test (6 MWT) assessed exercise capacity. Breathlessness was 
assessed with the Modified Medical Research Council Dyspnea Scale (mMRC). The 
St. George Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) assessed health-related quality of 
life; participants self-reported confidence and motivation for exercising 
regularly. Exploratory factor analysis (EFA) assessed the underlying factor 
structure of the Ex-SRES and internal consistency reliability. Convergent 
validity was evaluated through correlations with objective and subjective 
measures.
RESULTS: EFA resulted in a one-factor structure accounting for 58.28 % of the 
common variance. The Ex-SRES demonstrated convergent-type validity: daily step 
counts (ρ = .17), 6 MWT distance (ρ = .22), mMRC (ρ = -.15), SGRQ (ρ = -.24), 
motivation (ρ = .42), and confidence (ρ = .58) (p's < .05) and internal 
consistency reliability (Cronbach's α = .95) CONCLUSION: Objective measures of 
PA and exercise capacity confirm the psychometric properties of the Ex-SRES.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2025.108228
PMCID: PMC12499903
PMID: 40609704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest During the 
preparation of this work, the authors did not use generative AI or AI-assisted 
technologies.


66. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 15;1003:177897. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177897. 
Epub 2025 Jul 1.

Cilostazol and SB203580 combination: Targeting ER stress and p38MAPK signaling 
in Alzheimer's disease mouse model.

Ali MM(1), Sayed RH(2), Wadie W(3), Mohammed RA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy and Drug 
Technology, Egyptian Chinese University, Cairo, 11786, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Cairo, 11562, Egypt; Department of Clinical Pharmacy, School of 
Pharmacy, Newgiza University, Giza, 12577, Egypt. Electronic address: 
rabab.sayed@pharma.cu.edu.eg.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Cairo, 11562, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Cairo, 11562, Egypt; Department of Pharmacy Practice, Faculty of 
Pharmacy and Drug Technology, Egyptian Chinese University, Cairo, 11786, Egypt.

Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK) 
signaling contribute to neuronal inflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis, 
driving neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). These pathways present 
potential therapeutic targets. This study evaluates the neuroprotective effects 
of cilostazol (CLZ), a selective phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitor, and its 
modulation of ER stress and p38MAPK signaling in an AD mouse model induced by 
AlCl3 (10 mg/kg/day, i.p.) and D-galactose (150 mg/kg/day, i.p.) for 8 weeks. 
CLZ (30 mg/kg, p.o.), SB203580 (a p38MAPK inhibitor, 1 mg/kg, i.p.), or their 
combination were administered during the final 4 weeks. Results demonstrated 
that CLZ, alone or in combination with SB203580, mitigated cognitive decline, 
preserved hippocampal neurons, reduced Tau phosphorylation, and alleviated 
histopathological alterations. Mechanistically, CLZ suppressed ER stress by 
inhibiting both the IRE1α and PERK arms of ER stress. Inhibition of IRE1α 
inhibited p38MAPK, leading to NF-κB suppression and decreased TNF-α levels, 
thereby attenuating neuroinflammation. Simultaneously, PERK inhibition 
downregulated CHOP/GADD153, shifting the Bax/Bcl2 balance to prevent apoptosis. 
Additionally, CLZ reduced oxidative stress and enhanced survival signaling via 
p-CREB activation. Notably, combining CLZ with SB203580 further enhanced these 
neuroprotective effects in an additive manner. These findings underscore CLZ's 
potential in targeting ER stress and neuroinflammatory pathways in AD, 
particularly when combined with selective p38MAPK inhibition. This study 
highlights a promising therapeutic strategy, warranting further investigation to 
develop effective treatments for AD and other neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177897
PMID: 40609614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


67. Cell Stem Cell. 2025 Aug 7;32(8):1285-1298.e8. doi:
10.1016/j.stem.2025.06.006.  Epub 2025 Jul 2.

TET2-mutant myeloid cells mitigate Alzheimer's disease progression via CNS 
infiltration and enhanced phagocytosis in mice.

Matatall KA(1), Wathan TK(2), Nguyen M(3), Chen H(4), McDonald A(5), Qi G(6), 
Belk JA(7), Florez MA(8), Le DT(9), Olarinde T(10), Vlasschaert C(5), Buttigieg 
MM(11), Fan CW(3), Carcamo S(3), Cao R(1), Kennedy DE 2nd(1), Maknojia AA(1), 
Thatavarty A(1), Fernandez Sanchez JV(12), Bouzid H(7), Veeraragavan S(13), 
Crocker S(14), Goodell MA(15), Rodriguez A(16), Jaiswal S(7), Rauh MJ(17), 
Papapetrou EP(18), Marro SG(19), King KY(20).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(2)Department of Hematopoietic Biology & Malignancy, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(3)Departments of Oncological Sciences and Medicine, Tisch Cancer Institute, 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Center for 
Advancement of Blood Cancer Therapies, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY, USA; Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Jan and Dan Duncan Neurological Research Institute, 
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA; Jan and Dan Duncan 
Neurologic Research Institute, Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, TX 77030, 
USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada.
(6)Jan and Dan Duncan Neurologic Research Institute, Texas Children's Hospital, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA; Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Program in 
Genetics & Genomics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(7)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(8)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(9)Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Program in Immunology and 
Microbiology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(10)Rice University, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(11)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Queen's University, 
Kingston, ON, Canada.
(12)Division of Hematology Oncology, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(13)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(14)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Queen's University, 
Kingston, ON, Canada; Kingston Health Sciences Centre (KHSC), Kingston, Ontario, 
Canada.
(15)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(16)Division of Immunology, Allergy, and Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, 
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(17)Department of Medicine, Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada; Department 
of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada; 
Kingston Health Sciences Centre (KHSC), Kingston, Ontario, Canada. Electronic 
address: rauhm@queensu.ca.
(18)Departments of Oncological Sciences and Medicine, Tisch Cancer Institute, 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Center for 
Advancement of Blood Cancer Therapies, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY, USA; Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address: 
eirini.papapetrou@mssm.edu.
(19)Center for Advancement of Blood Cancer Therapies, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, 
Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, 
USA. Electronic address: samuele.marro@mssm.edu.
(20)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA; Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Electronic address: 
katherine.king@bcm.edu.

Erratum in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2025 Sep 4;32(9):1475. doi: 10.1016/j.stem.2025.07.011.

Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) is associated with many age-related diseases, but its 
interaction with Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unclear. Here, we show that 
TET2-mutant CH is associated with a 47% reduced risk of late-onset AD (LOAD) in 
the UK Biobank, whereas other drivers of CH do not confer protection. In a mouse 
model of AD, transplantation of Tet2-mutant bone marrow reduced cognitive 
decline and β-amyloid plaque formation, effects not observed with Dnmt3a-mutant 
marrow. Bone-marrow-derived microglia-like cells were detected at an increased 
rate in Tet2-mutant marrow recipients, and TET2-mutant human induced pluripotent 
stem cell (iPSC)-derived microglia were more phagocytic and hyperinflammatory 
than DNMT3A-mutant or wild-type microglia. Strikingly, single-cell RNA 
sequencing (scRNA-seq) revealed that macrophages and patrolling monocytes were 
increased in brains of mice transplanted with Tet2-mutant marrow in response to 
chemokine signaling. These studies reveal a TET2-specific protective effect of 
CH on AD pathogenesis mediated by peripheral myeloid cell infiltration.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.stem.2025.06.006
PMCID: PMC12233156
PMID: 40609533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


68. Neurology. 2025 Aug 12;105(3):e213717. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213717.
Epub  2025 Jul 3.

Real-World Evidence of Brexpiprazole Use and 6-Month Mortality, Hospitalization, 
and Emergency Department Visits Among Persons With Dementia.

Zissimopoulos J(1), Thunell J(2), Jacobson M(3), Haye S(2), Tysinger B(1), 
Ferido P(2), Joyce G(4).

Author information:
(1)Health Policy and Management, University of Southern California, Los Angeles.
(2)Schaeffer Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles.
(3)School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles; and.
(4)School of Pharmacy, University of Southern California, Los Angeles.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Alzheimer disease and other dementias are accompanied 
by depression and agitation and other behavioral and neuropsychiatric symptoms. 
In 2023, brexpiprazole became the first antipsychotic approved by the US Food 
and Drug Administration to treat agitation in persons with Alzheimer disease, 
but, like all atypical antipsychotics, it includes a black box warning of an 
increased risk of mortality among persons with dementia. This study provides 
real-world evidence of mortality in a heterogeneous sample of brexpiprazole 
users to understand effects in the population.
METHODS: We used a 100% sample of Medicare claims data Parts A, B, and D from 
2014 to 2023. Our sample was limited to beneficiaries with diagnosed dementia, 
who were continuously enrolled for at least 2 years and were new users of the 
atypical antipsychotics brexpiprazole or aripiprazole in a given year. We used 
matching and logistic regression to estimate the relationship between incident 
use of brexpiprazole, compared with aripiprazole, and mortality, emergency 
department (ED) visits, and hospitalization within 6 months.
RESULTS: Among the 41,871 beneficiaries with dementia, 71.7% of brexpiprazole 
and 69.7% of aripiprazole users were women with a mean age of 75.7 and 78.0 
years, respectively. Among persons living with dementia (PLWD), 6-month 
mortality was statistically lower among new users of brexpiprazole based on 
estimates from logistic regression and a matched sample of new users of 
brexpiprazole or aripiprazole (OR 0.49, [95% CI 0.37-0.65]).There was no 
statistical difference between the incident use of brexpiprazole and 
aripiprazole use for ED visits or hospitalization within 6 months of use 
initiation. Adjustment for potential unobserved confounding used two-stage least 
squares estimation and found no statistically significant differences in 
six-month mortality, ED visits, or hospitalizations between the 2 groups.
DISCUSSION: Brexpiprazole use is not associated with differential mortality risk 
compared with aripiprazole use among PLWD. Brexpiprazole offers a treatment 
option which is important given the heterogeneity of effects of antipsychotics 
on persons. A two-stage least squares method is used to eliminate bias on 
estimates because of observed and unobserved differences between the 2 groups, 
but the small sample size is a limitation.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class III evidence that 
brexpiprazole does not increase the risk of mortality at 6 months compared with 
aripiprazole in PLWD.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213717
PMCID: PMC12226927
PMID: 40609065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no relevant disclosures. Go 
to Neurology.org/N for full disclosures.


69. Interact J Med Res. 2025 Jul 3;14:e67522. doi: 10.2196/67522.

Readmission After Ischemic Stroke in Ningxia, China, From 2017 to 2021: 
Retrospective Cohort Study.

Meng H(#)(1)(2), Wang X(#)(3), Pan D(4), Su X(5)(6), Lu W(7), Liu Z(5)(6), Geng 
Y(5)(6), Ma X(5)(6), Pan T(5)(6), Liang P(8).

Author information:
(1)Hubei Provincial Clinical Research Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Tianyou 
Hospital, School of Medicine, Wuhan University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 
China.
(2)Brain Science and Advanced Technology Institute, Wuhan University of Science 
and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(3)Medical Record Statistics Department, General hospital of Ningxia Medical 
University, Yinchuan, China.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, People's Hospital of Ningxia Hui Autonomous 
Region, Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, China.
(5)School of Public Health, Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, China.
(6)Ningxia Key Laboratory of Environmental Factors and Chronic Disease Control, 
Yinchuan, China.
(7)Futian Center for Chronic Disease Control, Shenzhen, China.
(8)Department of Medical Affair, People's Hospital of Ningxia Hui Autonomous 
Region, Ningxia Medical University, 301 Zhengyuan North Street, Yinchhuan, 
750002, China, 86 13895085519.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Stroke remains a major cause of death and disability worldwide. 
Ischemic stroke is the most common type of stroke. Readmissions after 
hospitalization increase the patient burden and waste health resources.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to calculate rehospitalization rates and explore 
risk factors associated with rehospitalization in ischemic stroke.
METHODS: In this retrospective cohort study, we identified 12,782 patients 
admitted for ischemic stroke at People's Hospital of Ningxia Hui Autonomous 
Region between January 2017 and December 2021. Groups were determined based on 
the ID number. The most important factors were selected using the Least Absolute 
Shrinkage and Selection Operator regression model. Stabilized inverse 
probability of treatment weighting (SIPTW) was used to correct baseline 
imbalances between groups. The adjusted hazard ratios and Kaplan-Meier survival 
curves of significant factors after SIPTW were calculated using stepwise 
backward Cox regression.
RESULTS: A total of 10,727 patients were included in the study. Among them, 
12.7% and 7.2% were readmitted within 5 years and 1 year, respectively. Stepwise 
backward Cox analysis of SIPTW showed that diabetes was the influencing factor 
for rehospitalization within 5 years (1.15, 1.02-1.30) and 1 year (1.21, 
1.03-1.43). Additionally, the female gender was identified as a protective 
factor against readmission within 5 years (0.83, 0.74-0.93).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the rate of rehospitalization varied among patients with 
ischemic stroke at different time points, the significant factors remained 
consistent. Therefore, early prevention and treatment methods may be consistent.

© Hua Meng, Xingtian Wang, Dongfeng Pan, Xinya Su, Wenwen Lu, Zhuo Liu, Yuhui 
Geng, Xiaojuan Ma, Ting Pan, Peifeng Liang. Originally published in the 
Interactive Journal of Medical Research (https://www.i-jmr.org/).

DOI: 10.2196/67522
PMCID: PMC12244268
PMID: 40608446

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


70. Epilepsia Open. 2025 Aug;10(4):1253-1259. doi: 10.1002/epi4.70091. Epub 2025
Jul  3.

Effect of levetiracetam on cognition in patients with cognitive decline: A 
systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.

Faini C(1)(2), Sen A(3)(4), Romoli M(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Bufalini Hospital, Cesena, Italy.
(2)DIBINEM, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(3)Centre for Global Epilepsy, Wolfson College, Oxford, UK.
(4)Oxford Epilepsy Research Group, Nuffield Department of Clinical 
Neurosciences, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.

We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled 
trials (RCTs) evaluating the efficacy of levetiracetam (LEV) compared to placebo 
in improving cognitive performance in people with cognitive decline. The 
protocol was pre-registered with PROSPERO (CRD420250656389) and reporting 
followed PRISMA guidelines. We searched RCTs that enrolled adult patients with 
cognitive decline, of any stage, comparing LEV to placebo or other active 
substance, and which reported at least one of the following primary or secondary 
outcomes: clinical dementia rating scale (CDR) or its sub-items; language, 
verbal memory/memory, executive, visuo-spatial and multi-domain cognitive test 
results. Studies were assessed for bias against the Cochrane Risk of Bias 2.0 
tool. A meta-analysis was conducted using mean difference (MD) or standardized 
MD (SMD) according to the available scales. Meta-analysis of binary outcomes was 
used to compare adverse events. Overall, 6 RCTs provided data for 283 
participants. LEV was not associated with a significant improvement in cognitive 
function measured by CDR-SB compared to placebo (MD = 0.04, 95% CI = -0.23 to 
0.31, I2 = 0%, n studies = 2). LEV significantly improved visuospatial function 
(SMD = -0.25, 95% CI = -0.49 to -0.01, I2 = 0%, n studies = 2) and marginally 
improved executive function (SMD = -0.29, 95% CI = -0.63 to +0.05, I2 = 0%, n 
studies = 3). Importantly, no differences between LEV and placebo emerged in 
terms of adverse events. LEV was well tolerated in people with cognitive 
impairment. Although LEV did not improve global cognitive function, there were 
improvements in visuospatial function and, more marginally, executive function. 
Further studies are needed to assess LEV in larger cohorts of people with 
cognitive impairment, with application of standardized testing paradigms. PLAIN 
LANGUAGE SUMMARY: Levetiracetam (LEV) is a medication commonly used to treat 
epilepsy. As has emerged from clinical and neuroimaging studies, some people 
with neurocognitive disorders have abnormal brain activity, especially in the 
temporal lobes, which may worsen cognitive decline. We reviewed clinical trials 
testing whether LEV could help improve cognitive function in people with 
cognitive decline. Overall, LEV was well tolerated and did not lead to more side 
effects than placebo. While LEV did not improve general cognitive function, some 
studies reported small improvements in visuospatial and executive domains. More 
research in larger studies is needed to understand if LEV can benefit cognition 
in these individuals.

© 2025 The Author(s). Epilepsia Open published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1002/epi4.70091
PMCID: PMC12362173
PMID: 40608289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors has any conflict of interest 
to disclose. We confirm that we have read the Journal's position on issues 
involved in ethical publication and affirm that this report is consistent with 
those guidelines.


71. Mol Divers. 2025 Jul 3. doi: 10.1007/s11030-025-11278-4. Online ahead of
print.

Design strategies, structural insights, and biological potential of amyloid-beta 
inhibitors in Alzheimer's disease.

Guleria M(1), Malhan A(1), Teli G(2), Bisht N(3), Jain SK(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, 
Punjab, 143005, India.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Sangam University, NH-79, Atoon, Bhilwara, Rajasthan, 
311408, India.
(3)Sai College of Pharmacy, Rajpur Road, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, 248001, India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, 
Punjab, 143005, India. subheetjain@rediffmail.com.
(5)Centre for Basic and Translational Research in Health Sciences, Guru Nanak 
Dev University, Amritsar, Punjab, 143005, India. subheetjain@rediffmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an insidious neurodegenerative condition 
characterized by dementia, cognitive decline, and eventual mortality. The 
pathogenesis of AD is complex, influenced by multiple factors including 
neurotransmitter deficiencies, particularly acetylcholine (ACh) and the 
dysregulation of mental homeostasis, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and 
amyloid-beta (Aβ) peptide accumulation. The latter is firmly linked to the 
formation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and amyloid plaques in the cortical 
and hippocampal regions, which are hallmarks of the disease pathology. Recent 
advancements in therapeutic strategies have focused on inhibiting the 
amyloid-beta peptide, a key contributor to AD progression. This study explores 
the development of novel amyloid-beta inhibitors and their biological 
activities, focusing on the synthesis of radiolabeled compounds used in the 
diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, we explore the 
roles of crucial enzymes such as Electrophorus electricus acetylcholinesterase 
(eeAChE), human acetylcholinesterase (hAChE), and human butyrylcholinesterase 
(hBuChE) in the disease's neurochemical landscape. The goal of this review is to 
furnish the scientific community with insight into the design of innovative 
amyloid imaging agents. These agents are based on diverse scaffolds including 
flavone, pyrimidine, benzimidazole, imidazole, pyridine, pyrrole, quinoline, 
indanone, acridine, and peptide-based derivatives, serving as core structures 
for further research and development. This comprehensive evaluation not only 
elucidates the molecular underpinnings of AD but also propels forward the quest 
for efficacious diagnostic and therapeutic tools.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s11030-025-11278-4
PMID: 40608230

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


72. Future Med Chem. 2025 Jun;17(12):1349-1361. doi:
10.1080/17568919.2025.2525066.  Epub 2025 Jul 3.

Novel thiazole-thiadiazole as a potential anti-Alzheimer agent: synthesis and 
molecular interactions via an in silico study.

Khan S(1), Iqbal T(1), Hussain R(2), Fiaz Z(1), Abdellattif MH(3), Kashtoh H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Abbottabad University of Science and Technology, 
Abbottabad, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Hazara Univeristy, Mansehra, Pakistan.
(3)Chemistry Department, Sciences College, University College of Taraba, Taif 
University, P.O. Box 11099, 21944, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan, Korea.

AIM: This study aimed to synthesize and evaluate a series of thiazole-derived 
thiadiazole-based Schiff base derivatives (1-16) for their potential 
anti-Alzheimer and antioxidant activities, with a focus on identifying promising 
drug-like candidates.
MATERIALS & METHODS: The synthesized compounds were structurally characterized 
using 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR, and mass spectrometry. Their biological potential was 
assessed via in vitro anti-Alzheimer assays (AChE and BuChE inhibition) and 
DPPH-based antioxidant screening. Molecular docking was employed to predict 
binding interactions with relevant protein targets. Additionally, ADMET 
profiling was carried out to evaluate pharmacokinetic and toxicity parameters.
RESULTS: Among the tested compounds, derivative 8, bearing a trifluoromethyl 
substitution, showed the most potent activity against Alzheimer-related enzymes, 
surpassing the standard drug donepezil. Derivatives 3, 7, and 12 also exhibited 
significant bioactivity. Docking studies confirmed strong binding affinities of 
the active compounds to key residues within the enzyme active sites. ADMET 
analysis indicated favorable drug-likeness and safety profiles.
CONCLUSIONS: The synthesized Schiff-base derivatives, especially compound 8, 
demonstrated strong anti-Alzheimer and antioxidant activity. These findings 
suggest their potential as lead candidates for further development of 
multifunctional therapeutics targeting neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1080/17568919.2025.2525066
PMCID: PMC12296076
PMID: 40607814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant affiliations or 
financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial interest 
in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the 
manuscript. This includes employment, consultancies, honoraria, stock ownership 
or options, expert testimony, grants or patents received or pending, or 
royalties.


73. Front Immunol. 2025 Jun 18;16:1616899. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1616899. 
eCollection 2025.

Decoding neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease: a multi-omics and AI-driven 
perspective for precision medicine.

Lin S(1), Zhan Y(1), Wang R(1), Pei J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Acupuncture, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disease, which is 
characterized by β-amyloid (Aβ) deposition, Tau hyperphosphorylation, synaptic 
dysfunction and chronic neuroinflammation. Despite significant advances in 
research in recent years, effective therapeutic options remain limited. The 
development of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has made it possible to 
analyze cellular heterogeneity in AD brain tissues at high resolution, breaking 
through the limitation of signal averaging in traditional large-scale tissue 
analysis. This technology has led to the discovery of novel disease-associated 
cell subsets, such as pro-inflammatory microglia and reactive astrocytes, and 
the identification of key molecular markers linked to disease progression. 
Integrating scRNA-seq with AI-driven analytics and multi-omics platforms further 
enhances our ability to decode the intricate immune-inflammatory networks 
underlying AD. This strategy is expected to achieve accurate classification and 
early diagnosis of AD subtypes, and promote the development of individualized 
treatment strategies based on individual molecular and immune characteristics.

Copyright © 2025 Lin, Zhan, Wang and Pei.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1616899
PMCID: PMC12213348
PMID: 40607399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


74. Front Immunol. 2025 Jun 18;16:1586544. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1586544. 
eCollection 2025.

Integrative analysis of T cell-associated markers in Ewing sarcoma reveals 
prognostic signatures and immune dynamics.

Saddozai UAK(#)(1)(2), Liu C(#)(1)(2), Yan F(#)(3), Lu Z(#)(4), Khawar MB(1)(2), 
Akbar MU(5), Khattak S(6), Sun H(1)(2), Yang P(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Translational Medicine, Medical College, Yangzhou University, 
Yangzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Experimental and, Translational Non-Coding RNA 
Research, Yangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, The Eighth People's Hospital of Shanghai, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Beijing Tuberculosis and Thoracic Tumor 
Research Institute, Beijing Chest Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 
China.
(5)Oujiang Laboratory; Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang 
Province, Institute of Aging, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(6)Department of Preventive Medicine, Institute of Biomedical Informatics, 
Bioinformatics Center, Henan Provincial Engineering Center for Tumor Molecular 
Medicine, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Henan University, Kaifeng, Henan, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Ewing sarcoma (ES) is a rare and aggressive pediatric bone 
malignancy with poor prognosis, driven by therapy-resistant tumor 
microenvironments (TME). The TME plays a critical role in tumor progression 
through a complex and dynamic network of reciprocal interactions among immune 
cells (dysfunctional T cells, immunosuppressive macrophages), stromal components 
(cancer-associated fibroblasts), and tumor cells. These interactions 
collectively shape the immune landscape, promote immune evasion, and contribute 
to therapeutic resistance. Identifying reliable prognostic markers remains a 
critical challenge.
METHODS: Here we performed an integrated single-cell RNA sequencing, WGCNA, and 
bulk RNA-seq analyses to investigate tumor-immune interactions. Differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) intersected with T cell markers identified a total of 174 
T cell-associated genes. Functional enrichment analysis and molecular subtyping 
were performed to explore immune-related pathways. A prognostic model based on 
CLEC11A, BDP1, and ID3 was constructed using Cox regression and validated in 
external datasets. Immune infiltration was assessed using the CIBERSORT 
algorithm.
RESULTS: T cell marker analyses revealed key roles in pathways such as PI3K-Akt 
signaling and immune modulation. Molecular subtyping identified two clusters 
with distinct immune microenvironments: Cluster C1 (immunosuppressive phenotype 
and poorer prognosis) and Cluster C2 (functionally active immune profile 
associated with better prognosis). The prognostic model demonstrated high 
predictive accuracy for 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival (AUC: 0.85, 0.82, 0.78). 
Additionally, a higher tumor mutation burden (TMB) with low survival rate has 
been observed in High-risk group. Immune infiltration analysis showed higher 
CD8+ T cell and dendritic cell activity and immune checkpoint expression in 
low-risk groups. Experimental validation demonstrated that ID3 silencing 
inhibited tumor cell proliferation and induced cell cycle arrest in ES cell 
lines.
CONCLUSION: Together, our study identified CLEC11A, BDP1, and ID3 as key T cell 
associated prognostic markers and developed a validated model to predict 
survival outcomes in ES. Insights into T cell markers and tumor-immune dynamics 
offer promising advances in prognostic assessment and immunotherapy for ES. 
Furthermore, the role of ID3 in immune evasion and tumor proliferation 
underscores its potential as a therapeutic target, providing new avenues for 
immune checkpoint regulation and personalized treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2025 Saddozai, Liu, Yan, Lu, Khawar, Akbar, Khattak, Sun and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1586544
PMCID: PMC12213708
PMID: 40607387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


75. J Transl Med. 2025 Jul 2;23(1):731. doi: 10.1186/s12967-025-06729-3.

Cerebrospinal fluid sTREM2 mediates the associations of α-synuclein with tau 
pathology in older adults without dementia: two population-based study.

Wang YC(1), Huang LY(1), Yan-Fu(1), Xiong SY(1), Wang ZT(2), Tan CC(1), Tan 
L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao University, 
Qingdao, 266071, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Qingdao Hospital, University of Health and 
Rehabilitation Sciences (Qingdao Municipal Hospital), Qingdao, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao University, 
Qingdao, 266071, China. dr.tanlan@163.com.

BACKGROUND: The role of microglial activation by α-synuclein in Alzheimer’s 
disease (AD) remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the role of soluble 
triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (sTREM2) in regulating the 
relationship between α-synuclein and tau pathology in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).
METHODS: A total of 989 participants were included in the CABLE (Chinese 
Alzheimer’s Biomarker and LifestylE) study. Multiple linear regression analyses 
were performed to assess the associations of CSF α-synuclein and sTREM2 with tau 
pathology. Causal mediation analyses with 10,000 bootstrap iterations were 
conducted to investigate the mediating effect of sTREM2 on the relationship 
between α-synuclein and tau pathology. Additionally, subgroup analyses were 
performed based on APOE ε4 carrier status. The same analytical method was 
applied to the ADNI (Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative) cohort for 
validation. Furthermore, Cox proportional hazards models were employed to 
evaluate the longitudinal association between α-synuclein levels and the risk of 
AD in the ADNI cohort. Causal mediation analysis further evaluated the mediating 
role of tau pathology in the relationship between α-synuclein and the risk of 
AD.
RESULTS: In CABLE, elevated levels of α-synuclein were significantly associated 
with increased levels of sTREM2 (p < 0.001), p-tau181 (p < 0.001), and T-tau 
(p < 0.001). The relationship between α-synuclein and tau pathology was 
partially mediated by sTREM2, with mediation rates of 4.8% and 6.3%, 
respectively. Further subgroup analysis revealed that this mediating 
relationship was present only in APOE ε4 non-carriers. The CABLE findings were 
validated in the ADNI, with the proportion of mediators ranging from 17.1 to 
18.8%. Additionally, higher levels of α-synuclein were linked to an increased 
risk of AD (hazard ratio = 2. 137, p = 0.006). The relationship between 
α-synuclein levels and the risk of AD was mediated by p-tau181 but not T-tau, 
with a mediation rate of 67.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, activated microglia partially mediate the α-synuclein-tau 
pathology association, while p-tau181 further mediates the relationship between 
α-synuclein and AD risk. Thus, targeting the CSF α-synuclein-microglia-tau 
pathological pathway provides new insights into the prevention and treatment of 
AD.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material 
available at 10.1186/s12967-025-06729-3.

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-025-06729-3
PMCID: PMC12225095
PMID: 40604812

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The CABLE study was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee 
of Qingdao Municipal Hospital. The ADNI study was approved by the institutional 
review boards of all participating centers ( 
https://adni.loni.usc.edu/wp-content/uploads/how_to_apply/ADNI_Acknowledgement_List.pdf 
). Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


76. BMC Geriatr. 2025 Jul 2;25(1):462. doi: 10.1186/s12877-025-06095-1.

Global burden of disease and its risk factors for adults aged 70 and older 
across 204 countries and territories: a comprehensive analysis of the Global 
Burden of Disease Study 2021.

Chen QF(#)(1)(2), Ni C(#)(2), Jiang Y(2), Chen L(2), Liao H(2), Gao J(2), Qin 
X(2), Pan S(2), Luan X(2), Wu Y(3)(4), Zhou XD(5), Song W(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Medical Care Center, the First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, 325035, Zhejiang, China.
(2)The Center for Geriatric Medicine, Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of 
Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang Province, the First Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 325035, Zhejiang, China.
(3)The Center for Geriatric Medicine, Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of 
Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang Province, the First Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 325035, Zhejiang, China. wuyili@wmu.edu.cn.
(4)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision and Brain 
Health), Longwan District, 999 Jinshi Road, Yongzhong StreetZhejiang Province, 
Wenzhou, 325035, China. wuyili@wmu.edu.cn.
(5)MAFLD Research Center, Department of Hepatology, the First Affiliated 
Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 325000, China. 
zhouxiaodong@wmu.edu.cn.
(6)The Center for Geriatric Medicine, Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of 
Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang Province, the First Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 325035, Zhejiang, China. 
weihong@wmu.edu.cn.
(7)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision and Brain 
Health), Longwan District, 999 Jinshi Road, Yongzhong StreetZhejiang Province, 
Wenzhou, 325035, China. weihong@wmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The global older population has been rapidly increasing in recent 
decades, presenting substantial economic and social challenges.
AIMS: This study aims to examine the global disease burden and the associated 
risk factors among the population aged 70 and older across different regions.
METHODS: Data from the Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) database were used 
to analyze global deaths, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), and average 
annual percentage changes to assess disease burden and associated risk factors.
RESULTS: In 2021, the global population aged 70 and older reached 494.4 (95%UI 
482.1-508.2) million. Death and DALY rates have declined by 9.2% (95%CI 
5.3-12.7) and 11.0% (95%CI 7.7-14.0) from 1990 to 2021, respectively. However, 
the global death rate increased to 7,062 per 100,000 population, with DALY rates 
rising to 125,042 per 100,000. A strong correlation exists between 
socio-demographic index (SDI) and DALY rates. Regions with lower SDI levels, 
particularly low and low-middle SDI regions, showed higher DALY rates, reaching 
189,563 and 165,080 per 100,000, respectively. The leading causes of death among 
the older included ischemic heart disease, stroke, COVID-19, and chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease. The primary risk factors contributing to DALYs 
were high systolic blood pressure, air pollution, and tobacco use.
CONCLUSIONS: The global disease burden among adults aged 70 and older has shown 
declines in death and DALY rates, yet remains a significant challenge 
exacerbated by population growth, especially in less developed regions. 
Implementing preventive strategies that target primary risk factors early and 
enhancing treatment of underlying conditions are crucial.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-025-06095-1
PMCID: PMC12220231
PMID: 40604507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study utilized publicly available data from the Global Burden 
of Disease (GBD) Study 2021, which is a global health resource that aggregates 
data from various sources under ethical standards. As the data is anonymized and 
does not involve direct human participation, no individual ethics approval was 
required. The GBD study has received ethical approval from relevant ethics 
committees in the countries where data collection took place, as per the 
guidelines of the respective institutions. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


77. BMC Nephrol. 2025 Jul 2;26(1):341. doi: 10.1186/s12882-025-04215-y.

As The River Flows: A Case Report of Post Obstructive Diuresis.

Finger E(1), Moses A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Lenox Hill Hospital, Donald and Barbara Zucker School 
of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, New York, NY, USA. Evan.Finger@mountsinai.org.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Lenox Hill Hospital, Donald and Barabara Zucker 
School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Post obstructive diuresis (PObD) is a medical complication that 
occurs after a period of urinary obstruction. It is defined as a prolonged 
production of urine of at least 200 cc/hour for two consecutive hours or over 
3 L of urine production over a 24-hour period following relief of urinary 
retention or an obstructive uropathy. Physiologic PObD lasts for 24 h while 
pathologic PObD lasts for over more than a 48-hour period and can lead to 
massive electrolyte deficiencies as well as the possibility of hypotension and 
consequent shock. The typical pathophysiology of pathologic PObD involves 
medullary washout from urinary retention and tubular injury, downregulation of 
sodium transport receptors in the thick ascending loop of Henle, a reduction in 
the glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and a poor response to antidiuretic 
hormone (ADH). Guidelines on the treatment of PObD rely on the regulation of 
fluid maintenance, however, they do not definitively describe how to manage 
contributive factors to the pathology. We discuss the case of a patient who 
developed severe PObD with a tailored approach to treating the underlying 
pathophysiologic mechanisms contributing to pathologic PObD while utilizing 
markers to guide patient management.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 79-year-old male with a past medical history of severe 
aortic stenosis, coronary artery disease, hyperlipidemia and mild Alzheimer's 
disease presented with invasive bladder cancer and consequent obstructive 
uropathy. An ileal conduit was created. Massive urinary diuresis occurred for 
more than 48 h once the obstruction was relieved and subsequently, our patient 
went into shock. Nephrology was consulted and a treatment plan was initiated 
that targeted appropriate fluid administration to overcome the massive diuresis 
while also focusing on improving the medullary gradient and response to 
anti-diuretic hormone. Our patient's condition improved after our multifaceted 
therapeutic approach.
CONCLUSION: This case report highlights the importance of maintaining 
appropriate fluid administration to treat fluid loss while avoiding augmentation 
of the diuresis. We also demonstrate the significance of a treatment plan that 
targets the pathophysiological mechanisms contributing to PObD to help treat our 
patient's condition.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12882-025-04215-y
PMCID: PMC12220532
PMID: 40604480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: The authors declare that 
they have obtained verbal informed consent from the patient’s next of kin (his 
son) for publication of this case report. Please see attached Consent posted in 
related files. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


78. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70309. doi: 10.1002/alz.70309.

Genetically determined Alzheimer's disease research advances: The Down Syndrome 
& Autosomal Dominant Alzheimer's Disease 2024 Conference.

Falgàs N(1), Maure-Blesa L(2), Ances B(3), Flores-Aguilar L(4), Hartley S(5), 
Hassenstab J(3), Iulita MF(6), Janicki M(7)(8), Koenig K(9), Lao P(10), Levin 
J(11)(12)(13), McDade E(3), Meijer L(14), Rafii MS(15), Snyder HM(16), 
Sánchez-Valle R(1), Fortea J(2)(17)(18); DSAD‐ADAD conference group; Arriola 
Infante J(2), Balasa M(1), Barroeta I(2)(17), Barthelemy R N(3), Bejanin 
A(2)(17), Benejam B(18), Bosch B(1), Bradshaw A(19), Carmona-Iragui 
M(2)(17)(18), Cohen A(20), Comas Albertí A(1), Csincsik L(21), Cuello AC(22), 
Del Hoyo Soriano L(2)(17), Dijkstra J(23), Edwards N(10)(24)(25), Giménez 
S(2)(17)(26), Gonzalez-Ortiz F(27), Gordon B(3), Gutiérrez Fernández S(28), 
Handen B(20), Jacob C(29), Johnson E(30), Johansson C(31), Lladó A(1), Lleó 
A(2)(17), Morabito S(4), Morcillo-Nieto AO(2)(17), Montoliu-Gaya L(27), Okafor 
M(32), Pérez-Millan A(1), Potier MC(32), Ringman J(33), Rodríguez-Baz Í(2)(17), 
Rubenstein E(34), Ryan NS(35), Strydom A(36), Vaqué-Alcázar L(2), Vermunt L(37), 
Videla Toro L(2)(17)(18), Zaman S(38).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Disease and Other Cognitive Disorders Unit, Service of Neurology, 
Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, Fundació de Recerca Clínic Barcelona-Institut 
d'Investigació Biomèdica August Pi i Sunyer, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(2)Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, 
Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau, Sant Antoni Maria Claret, Departamento 
de Medicina, Universitat Autónoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine in St. 
Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California, 
Irvine, California, USA.
(5)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(6)Altoida Inc., Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(7)Department of Disability and Human Development, University of Illinois 
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(8)National Task Group on Intellectual Disabilities and Dementia Practices, 
Rockport, Maine, USA.
(9)Imaging Sciences, Imaging Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(10)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center and Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's 
Disease and the Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, New York, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany.
(12)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Munich, Germany.
(13)Munich Cluster of Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(14)Perha Pharmaceuticals; Centre de Perharidy, Hôtel de Recherche, Roscoff, 
France.
(15)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, USC Keck School of Medicine, San 
Diego, California, USA.
(16)Division of Medical and Scientific Relations, Alzheimer's Association, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(17)Center of Biomedical Investigation Network for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(18)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana de Síndrome de Down, 
Entresòl, Barcelona, Spain.
(19)Alzheimer Europe, Bertrange, Luxembourg.
(20)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(21)School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Science, Queen's University 
Belfast, University Rd, Belfast, UK.
(22)McGill University Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, McGill 
University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(23)Genomics of Neurodegenerative Diseases and Aging, Department of Human 
Genetics, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(24)Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York City, New York, USA.
(25)Department of Neuroscience, Columbia University, New York City, New York, 
USA.
(26)Multidisciplinary Sleep Unit. Respiratory department. Hospital de la Santa 
Creu i Sant Pau, Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.
(27)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(28)VIB-KU Leuven Center for Brain & Disease Research, VIB Center for Brain & 
Disease research, Leuven, Belgium.
(29)Laboratory of Neurochemistry and Behaviour, Experimental Neurobiology Unit, 
University of Antwerp, Antwerpen, Belgium.
(30)Department of Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(31)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Stockholm, Sweden.
(32)Sorbonne Université, Institut du Cerveau-Paris Brain Institute - ICM, CNRS, 
APHP, Hôpital de La Pitié Salpêtrière, InsermParis, France Hôpital Pitié, Paris, 
France.
(33)Department of Neurology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.
(34)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(35)Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, UCL 
Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Queen Square, London, UK.
(36)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology, and Neuroscience, King's College 
London, Strand London, UK.
(37)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, VU University, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(38)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The Down syndrome-associated Alzheimer's disease (DSAD) autosomal 
dominant Alzheimer's disease (ADAD) 2024 Conference in Barcelona, convened under 
an Alzheimer's Association International Society to Advance Alzheimer's Research 
and Treatment (ISTAART) grant through the Down syndrome and Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) Professional Interest Area (PIA), brought together global researchers to 
foster collaboration and knowledge exchange between the fields of DSAD and ADAD.
METHODS: This article provides a synthesis review of the conference proceedings, 
summarizing key discussions on biomarkers, natural history models, clinical 
trials, and ethical considerations in anti-amyloid therapies.
RESULTS: A total of 211 attendees from 16 countries joined the meeting. Global 
researchers presented on disease mechanisms, therapeutic developments, and 
patient care strategies. Discussions focused on challenges and opportunities 
unique to DSAD and ADAD. Experts emphasized the urgent need for tailored 
clinical trials for ADAD and DSAD and debated the safety and efficacy of 
anti-amyloid treatments. Ethical considerations highlighted equitable access to 
therapies and the crucial role of patient and caregiver involvement.
DISCUSSION: The conference highlighted the importance of inclusive research and 
collaboration across the genetic forms of AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Biomarker research and natural history models developed in Down 
syndrome-associated Alzheimer's disease (DSAD) and autosomal dominant 
Alzheimer's disease (ADAD) enable the prediction of disease progression not only 
for DSAD and ADAD, but also for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
-Collaboration and knowledge exchange among researchers across these genetic 
forms of AD will accelerate our understanding of the pathophysiology and advance 
preventive trials in DSAD and ADAD. -Tailored clinical trials for DSAD are 
urgently needed to address specific safety and efficacy concerns. -Inclusive 
research practices are crucial for advancing treatments and understanding of 
DSAD and ADAD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70309
PMCID: PMC12221810
PMID: 40604347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Instituto de Salut Carlos III supported L.M.B. 
and N.F. and co‐funded by the European Union through the Río Hortega Fellowship 
“CM23/00291” (L.M.B.) and Juan Rodés grant JR22/00014 (N.F.). 
N.S.R. acknowledges support from the UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL 
through UK DRI Ltd, principally funded by the UK Medical Research Council, the 
UK NIHR UCLH Biomedical Research Centre, and the Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer 
Network, funded by the National Institute on Aging. L.M. is funded by grants 
from the “Fondation Jérôme Lejeune”, the “Agence Nationale de la Recherche 
(ANR)” (DYRK‐DOWN, TRANSBIOROYAL and KINHIB‐DIAB projects), France 2030 (i‐Nov 
vague 9, Leucettinib‐21 project), and Bpifrance (EUROSTARS, T2DiaCURE project), 
the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation program (GO‐DS21 
project) and the European Innovation Council (EIC) Accelerator Program 
(DOWN‐AUTONOMY project, 190138295). Alzheimer's Association ISTAART Conference 
Support Award. H.M.S. is a full‐time employee of the Alzheimer's Association, 
and their spouse is an employee at Abbott Labs in an unrelated field. L.V.A. was 
supported by Instituto de Salud Carlos III through the Sara Borrell Postdoctoral 
Fellowship “CD23/00235”. M.C.I. acknowledges support from the Alzheimer's 
Association and Global Brain Health Institute (GBHI_ALZ‐18‐543740), the Jérôme 
Lejeune Foundation (#1913 Cycle 2019B), the Societat Catalana de Neurologia 
(Premi Beca Fundació SCN 2020). I.R.B. was supported by Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III through the Río Hortega Fellowship “CM22/00052” and co‐funded by the 
European Union. J.E.A.I. was supported by Instituto de Salud Carlos III through 
the Río Hortega Fellowship “CM22/00219” and co‐funded by the European Union. 
J.A. was supported by Instituto de Salud Carlos III through the Río Hortega 
Fellowship “CM21/00243” and co‐funded by the European Union. L.M.B. was 
supported by Instituto de Salud Carlos III through the Río Hortega Fellowship 
“CM23/00291” and co‐funded by the European Union. A.B. acknowledges support from 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III through the Miguel Servet grant “CP20/00038” and 
co‐funded by the European Union, and the Alzheimer's Association 
“AARG‐22‐923680.” L.D.H.S. acknowledges support from Instituto de Salud Carlos 
III through the Miguel Servet grant CP24/00112 and co‐funded by the European 
Union, and the the Jérôme Lejeune Foundation (2326 ‐ GRT‐2024A). The conference 
was funded by grants from the Alzheimer's Association through the International 
Society to Advance Alzheimer's Research and Treatment (ISTAART) Grant Program 
for Conferences and Convenings (IGPCC) and the Pasqual Maragall Foundation, with 
the support of the pharmaceutical industry. J.F. reported receiving personal 
fees for service on the advisory boards, adjudication committees, or speaker 
honoraria from AC Immune, Adamed, Alzheon, Biogen, Eisai, Esteve, Fujirebio, 
Ionis, Laboratorios Carnot, Life Molecular Imaging, Lilly, Lundbeck, Novo 
Nordisk, Perha, Roche, Zambón, and outside the submitted work. D.A., A.L., and 
J.F. reports holding a patent for markers of synaptopathy in neurodegenerative 
disease (licensed to ADx, EPI8382175.0). S.G. reported receiving personal fees 
for service on the advisory boards, speaker honoraria, or educational activities 
from Esteve, Indorsia, and Biojen. MCI reported receiving personal fees for 
service on the advisory boards, speaker honoraria, or educational activities 
from Esteve, Lilly, Neuraxpharm, Adium, and Roche. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information.


79. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70417. doi: 10.1002/alz.70417.

Gut microbiome compositional and functional features associate with Alzheimer's 
disease pathology.

Kang JW(1), Khatib LA(2)(3), Heston MB(1), Dilmore AH(2), Labus JS(4)(5)(6), 
Deming Y(1), Schimmel L(7), Blach C(8), McDonald D(2), Gonzalez A(2), Bryant 
M(2), Ulland TK(1)(9), Johnson SC(1), Asthana S(1), Carlsson CM(1), Chin NA(1), 
Blennow K(10), Zetterberg H(1)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14), Rey FE(15); Alzheimer Gut 
Microbiome Project Consortium(7); Kaddurah-Daouk R(7)(16)(17), Knight 
R(2)(18)(19)(20)(21), Bendlin BB(1)(22).

Author information:
(1)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California, USA.
(3)Neurosciences Graduate Program, University of California, San Diego, La 
Jolla, California, USA.
(4)Integrative Biostatistics and Bioinformatics Core (IBBC) at the 
Goodman-Luskin Microbiome Center, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(5)G. Oppenheimer Center for Neurobiology of Stress and Resilience, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.
(6)UCLA Vatche and Tamar Manoukian Division of Digestive Diseases, David Geffen 
School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University, Durham, 
North Carolina, USA.
(8)Duke Molecular Physiology Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, 
USA.
(9)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(11)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(12)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(13)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(14)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(15)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(16)Duke Institute of Brain Sciences, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, 
USA.
(17)Department of Medicine, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(18)Center for Microbiome Innovation, Joan and Irwin Jacobs School of 
Engineering, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.
(19)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of California, 
San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.
(20)Halıcıoğlu Data Science Institute, University of California, San Diego, La 
Jolla, California, USA.
(21)Shu Chien-Gene Lay Department of Bioengineering, University of California, 
San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.
(22)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Sep 05:2024.09.04.24313004. doi: 10.1101/2024.09.04.24313004.

BACKGROUND: The gut microbiome is a potentially modifiable risk factor for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, understanding of its composition and function 
regarding AD pathology is limited.
METHODS: Shallow-shotgun metagenomics was used to analyze the fecal microbiome 
of participants in the Wisconsin Microbiome in Alzheimer's Risk Study, 
leveraging clinical data and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers. Differential 
abundance and ordinary least squares regression analyses were performed to find 
differentially abundant gut microbiome features and their associations with CSF 
biomarkers of AD and related pathologies.
RESULTS: Gut microbiome composition and function differed between individuals 
with and without AD dementia. The compositional difference was replicated in an 
independent cohort. Differentially abundant gut microbiome features were 
associated with CSF biomarkers of AD and related pathologies.
DISCUSSION: These findings enhance our understanding of alterations in gut 
microbial composition and function in AD, and suggest that gut microbes and 
their pathways are linked to AD pathology.
HIGHLIGHTS: Gut microbiome composition and function differ between people with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia and cognitively unimpaired (CU) individuals. 
Co-occurring gut microbes show differential abundance across AD-related groups 
(AD vs CU, amyloid status+ vs amyloid status-, and apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 
status+ vs APOE ε4 status-). Gut microbiome composition also differs between 
people with AD dementia and CU individuals in a larger validation cohort. 
Differentially abundant gut microbiome composition and function between AD and 
CU groups are correlated with cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for AD and related 
pathologies.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70417
PMCID: PMC12221809
PMID: 40604345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Kaddurah‐Daouk is an inventor of a series of 
patents on use of metabolomics for the diagnosis and treatment of central 
nervous system (CNS) diseases and holds equity in Metabolon Inc., Chymia LLC, 
and PsyProtix. Dr. Rob Knight is a scientific advisory board member and 
consultant for BiomeSense, Inc., and has equity and receives income. He is a 
scientific advisory board member and has equity in GenCirq. He is a consultant 
for DayTwo, and receives income. He has equity in and acts as a consultant for 
Cybele. He is a co‐founder of Biota, Inc., and has equity. He is a cofounder of 
Micronoma, and has equity and is a scientific advisory board member. The terms 
of these arrangements have been reviewed and approved by the University of 
California San Diego in accordance with its conflict of interest policies. Dr. 
Zetterberg has served on scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for 
Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
Daniel McDonald is a consultant for, and has equity in, BiomeSence, Inc. The 
terms of this arrangement has been reviewed and approved by the University of 
California San Diego in accordance with its conflict of interest policies. All 
other authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose beyond those listed. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


80. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 2;15(1):23611. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-08015-0.

Therapeutic effects of miR-937-3p by targeting NTN1 expression and regulating 
apoptosis in an Aβ-induced neuronal cell death.

Choi J(1), Jeong H(1), Ramalingam M(1), Hwang J(1)(2), Kim SJ(3), Kim BC(4), 
Jeong HS(5), Jang S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Chonnam National University Medical School, 
Hwasun-gun, Jeollanamdo, 58128, Republic of Korea.
(2)Healthcare Advanced Chemical Research Institute, Korea Testing and Research 
Institute, Hwasun-gun, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Chonnam National University Hospital, Chonnam 
National University Medical School, Gwangju, 61469, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Chonnam National University Hospital, Chonnam 
National University Medical School, Gwangju, 61469, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Physiology, Chonnam National University Medical School, 
Hwasun-gun, Jeollanamdo, 58128, Republic of Korea. jhsjeong@hanmail.net.
(6)Department of Physiology, Chonnam National University Medical School, 
Hwasun-gun, Jeollanamdo, 58128, Republic of Korea. sujeong.jjang@gmail.com.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have multiple functions that regulate gene expression in 
various species. Few studies have explored the effects of miRNAs on the 
pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, the potential neuroprotective 
effects of miRNAs on AD, particularly by targeting neuronal markers, remain 
unclear. In this study, we suggested potential neuroprotective roles for 
miR-937-3p in an in vitro AD model, which has not been extensively studied. Our 
biological analysis confirmed that miR-937-3p participated in neuronal 
protection and differentiation. We selected miR-937-3p as a novel candidate and 
identified Netrin1 (NTN1), an axon guidance regulator, as its target gene via 
qPCR analysis and luciferase assay. Additionally, FACS analysis revealed a 
reduction in apoptosis levels in Aβ-treated cells following treatment with the 
miR-937-3p-I. Western blot analysis showed that the expression of Mcl-1, an 
anti-apoptotic marker, increased with miR-937-3p-I treatment in an in vitro AD 
model. Interestingly, the levels of pro-caspase 7, pro-caspase 3, and pro-PARP, 
which are usually downregulated when their cleaved forms are upregulated, were 
found to increase with miR-937-3p-I treatment. The expression levels of neuronal 
markers such as NeuN, NFH, Tuj1, SYP, and MAP2 were enhanced by miR-937-3p-I 
treatment in the in vitro AD model. Therefore, miR-937-3p inhibition might play 
a therapeutic and neuroprotective role in AD by promoting NTN1 expression and 
repressing the apoptotic pathway.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-08015-0
PMCID: PMC12223061
PMID: 40604203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent to participate: Informed 
consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study. 
Consent to publish: The authors are responsible for the correctness of the 
statements provided in the manuscript. Competing interests: The authors declare 
no competing interests.


81. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 2;15(1):23206. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-04999-x.

Antioxidative effects of phytoaromatic compounds on the cysteine of the SKCGS 
peptide as a critical aggregation domain of tau.

Roshanfekr A(1), Moeini Z(1), Golmohammadi F(2), Balalaie S(2), Seyedarabi A(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Peptide Chemistry Research Group, K.N. Toosi University of Technology, PO Box 
15785-4416, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran. 
a.seyedarabi@ut.ac.ir.

Cysteine residues play a crucial role in maintaining the structural and 
functional integrity of proteins, but they are highly susceptible to oxidative 
modifications. These modifications can contribute to disorders such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). In tau protein, the SKCGS sequence, especially the 
cysteine residue at position C-322, is particularly vulnerable to oxidative 
stress (OS). This vulnerability promotes tau fibrillation and aggregation, both 
in vitro and in vivo. This study evaluated the antioxidative effects of 
cinnamaldehyde (Cin), phenylethyl alcohol (PEA), and the common crude spices 
(cinnamon, rose, saffron, and cardamom) on the SKCGS peptide of the tau protein 
(in solution and aroma forms), with a focus on their ability to prevent 
oxidative damage. We adopted a novel approach using aromatherapy that utilizes 
the aromatic and volatile properties of natural compounds. By combining 
biochemical assessments with molecular docking studies, we aimed to provide a 
comprehensive understanding of the protective mechanisms of the natural 
phytoaromatic compounds used in this study. The antioxidative potential of these 
compounds was assessed using the DPPH assay; thiol levels measured via DTNB and 
mBBr assays; and binding interactions evaluated through molecular docking. The 
DPPH assay confirmed the antioxidative activity of all tested compounds. DTNB 
and mBBr assays showed that the phytoaromatic compounds significantly preserved 
free thiol content in the SKCGS peptide under oxidative conditions (p < 0.05). 
Molecular docking predicted favorable binding interactions between the 
phytoaromatic compounds and the cysteine residue in the SKCGS sequence, 
suggesting a protective mechanism against OS. The data presented provided strong 
evidence supporting the idea that phytoaromatic compounds could be promising 
candidates for developing innovative treatment approaches for AD. The 
encouraging results from this study justify further exploration of phytoaromatic 
compounds as therapeutic agents for AD. This research opens up new avenues for 
creating effective treatments to address one of the most significant challenges 
in neurodegenerative medicine.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-04999-x
PMCID: PMC12222454
PMID: 40603917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


82. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 2;15(1):23311. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-05568-y.

A deep learning model for early diagnosis of alzheimer's disease combined with 
3D CNN and video Swin transformer.

Zhou J(1), Wei Y(1), Li X(2), Zhou W(1), Tao R(1), Hua Y(1), Liu H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Information and Software Engineering, East China Jiaotong 
University, Nanchang, 330013, China.
(2)School of Information and Software Engineering, East China Jiaotong 
University, Nanchang, 330013, China. lx_hncs@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) constitutes a neurodegenerative disorder predominantly 
observed in the geriatric population. If AD can be diagnosed early, both in 
terms of prevention and treatment, it is very beneficial to patients. Therefore, 
our team proposed a novel deep learning model named 3D-CNN-VSwinFormer. The 
model consists of two components: the first part is a 3D CNN equipped with a 3D 
Convolutional Block Attention Module (3D CBAM) module, and the second part 
involves a fine-tuned Video Swin Transformer. Our investigation extracts 
features from subject-level 3D Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data, retaining 
only a single 3D MRI image per participant. This method circumvents data leakage 
and addresses the issue of 2D slices failing to capture global spatial 
information. We utilized the ADNI dataset to validate our proposed model. In 
differentiating between AD patients and cognitively normal (CN) individuals, we 
achieved accuracy and AUC values of 92.92% and 0.9660, respectively. Compared to 
other studies on AD and CN recognition, our model yielded superior results, 
enhancing the efficiency of AD diagnosis.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-05568-y
PMCID: PMC12223116
PMID: 40603911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


83. Nat Med. 2025 Jul 2. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03816-2. Online ahead of print.

Rethinking TREM2 as a target for Alzheimer's disease after the INVOKE-2 trial 
failure.

Colonna M(1)(2), Holtzman DM(3)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology & Immunology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. 
Louis, MO, USA. mcolonna@wustl.edu.
(2)Brain Immunology & Glia Center, Washington University in St. Louis, St. 
Louis, MO, USA. mcolonna@wustl.edu.
(3)Brain Immunology & Glia Center, Washington University in St. Louis, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, 
USA.
(5)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University in St. Louis, 
St. Louis, MO, USA.
(6)Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Washington University in St. 
Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA.

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03816-2
PMID: 40603729

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: M.C. is on the scientific 
advisory boards of Vigil, BioClec and Halyard and consults for Arena Bioworks, 
Pfizer and Cell Signaling Technology. D.M.H. has equity and is on the scientific 
advisory board of C2N Diagnostics and is on the scientific advisory boards of 
Denali, Genentech, Acta and Cajal Therapeutics, and consults for Pfizer, Roche 
and Switch Therapeutics.


84. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 2;15(1):23490. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-08279-6.

Risk of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease following androgen 
deprivation therapy in a real world nationwide cohort.

Jeon HL(1), Choo E(2)(3), Jeong SH(4)(5), Yun J(3), Jeong CW(6)(7), Lee H(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy and Institute of New Drug Development, Jeonbuk National 
University, Jeonju, Jeonbuk, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, Ajou University, Suwon, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Biohealth Regulatory Science, Graduate School of Ajou 
University, Suwon, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Urology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Urology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(6)Department of Urology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea. drboss@snu.ac.kr.
(7)Department of Urology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea. drboss@snu.ac.kr.
(8)College of Pharmacy, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. 
hankil@ewha.ac.kr.

The association between androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) and dementia 
including Alzheimer's disease remains debatable. Moreover, the evidence 
regarding the risk of vascular dementia and Parkinson's disease associated with 
ADT is limited. A population-based cohort study was conducted using the national 
health insurance data (2012-2022) from South Korea. Eligible patients newly 
diagnosed with prostate cancer who underwent ADT were compared with those who 
did not receive ADT. We applied propensity score matching and performed Cox 
proportional hazards regression analysis to calculate the adjusted hazard ratios 
(aHR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI). Of 163,723 patients with prostate 
cancer between 2013 and 2017, 24,456 were eligible. After 1:1 propensity score 
matching, 10,168 patients were included in each group. The risk of overall 
dementia was not significantly higher in ADT users compared with that of 
non-users (aHR = 1.07; 95% CI: 0.97-1.19); however, the elevated risk of 
Alzheimer's disease was observed (aHR = 1.39; 95% CI: 1.21-1.59). ADT was not 
associated with the risk of vascular dementia (aHR = 1.14; 95% CI: 0.70-1.94) 
and Parkinson's disease (aHR = 1.01; 95% CI: 0.75-1.35). Our updated evidence 
reinforces previous findings, indicating a positive association between ADT and 
the risk of Alzheimer's disease. However, it is unlikely that ADT increases the 
risk of vascular dementia and Parkinson's disease.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-08279-6
PMCID: PMC12223037
PMID: 40603530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Institutional Review Board of Ajou 
University (202305-HB-EX-001), which waived the requirement for informed consent 
as only de-identified data were used. Competing interests: The authors declare 
no competing interests.


85. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 2;15(1):23523. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-05372-8.

Elevated miRNA-21, miRNA-155, and miRNA-182 levels correlate with cytokine 
dysregulation in neurological disorders and indicate potential for biomarker and 
therapy development.

Nikanfar M(1), Nouri M(2), Hassanpour M(2), Rezaei J(3), Nourazarian A(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Clinical Laboratories, Faculty of Medicine, 
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Solid Tumor Research Center, Cellular and Molecular Medicine Research 
Institute, Urmia University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(4)Stem Cell Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. alinour65@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Khoy University of Medical Sciences, 
Khoy, Iran. alinour65@gmail.com.

Cytokines and microRNAs (miRNAs) play a crucial function in neurological 
disorders. The purpose of this study was to investigate the interactions between 
cytokine networks and miRNA-21, miRNA-155, and miRNA-182 in the cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) of individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), and multiple sclerosis. Twenty patients diagnosed with MS, AD, and PD had 
CSF samples taken, while twenty healthy individuals served as controls. Cytokine 
levels (IL-6, TNF-α, IL-10, and CCL2) and miRNA expression were determined using 
an enzyme-linked immunosorbent test (ELISA) and qRT-PCR, respectively. The aim 
of this study was to identify the correlation between miRNA expression and 
cytokine levels.Compared with the control group, patients with MS and AD had 
significantly higher levels of miRNA-21, miRNA-155, and miRNA-182. The disease 
groups showed increased cytokine levels, particularly in AD and MS. Strong and 
statistically significant positive correlations were observed between miRNA-21 
and IL-6 (r = 0.72, p < 0.001), miRNA-155 and TNF-α (r = 0.68, p < 0.001), and 
miRNA-182 and CCL2 (r = 0.75, p < 0.001) in all groups. This study provides new 
insights into the consistent patterns of miRNA expression and cytokine levels in 
the cerebrospinal fluid of individuals with neurological disorders. The 
significant correlations between certain miRNAs and cytokines suggest potential 
regulatory connections, offering valuable information on the pathogenesis of 
various diseases and identifying potential therapeutic targets.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-05372-8
PMCID: PMC12222680
PMID: 40603418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval and consent to participate: This 
study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran (IR.TBZMED.REC.1399.765). All procedures were conducted 
in accordance with institutional guidelines and regulations. Informed consent 
was obtained from all participants prior to sample collection.


86. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 2;15(1):23312. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-05416-z.

Association between the DASH diet and Alzheimer's disease in a case-control 
study.

Abbasi MM(1), Khandae S(1), Shahabi M(1), Attarzadeh M(2), Karimi M(1), Saghafi 
H(1), Razeghi S(3), Khamseh F(3), Rashidkhani B(4).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Department, Faculty of Nutrition and Food 
Technology, National Nutrition and Food Technology Research Institute, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Iran Dementia and Alzheimer association, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics, Faculty of Nutrition and Food 
Technology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Community Nutrition, Faculty of Nutrition Sciences and Food 
Technology, National Nutrition and Food Technology Research Institute, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. rashidkhani@yahoo.com.

The findings on the connection between Alzheimer's disease and the dietary 
approaches to stop hypertension (DASH) are inconsistent. Additionally, the 
relationship between Alzheimer's and the DASH diet has not been explored in the 
Middle East region. This case-control study aimed to evaluate the association 
between adherence to DASH diet and the risk of Alzheimer's disease. The study 
included 212 participants (106 cases and 106 controls). Cases were recruited 
among people in the early stages of the disease who had been diagnosed with 
Alzheimer's disease within the past six months. Controls were selected from 
health centers across Tehran. Dietary intake was assessed using a validated 
168-item food frequency questionnaire. Four DASH diet indices (Dixon, Mellen, 
Fung, and Günther) were used to evaluate the adherence. After adjusting for 
potential confounders, higher adherence to Günther's, Mellen's, and Fung's DASH 
diet indices were significantly associated with a reduced risk of Alzheimer's 
disease (Mellen's OR: 0.29; 95% CI: 0.10-0.83; Fung's OR: 0.22; 95% CI: 
0.08-0.65; Günther's OR: 0.36; 95% CI: 0.13-1.00). Adherence to DASH dietary 
pattern might be associated with a decreased risk of Alzheimer's disease. Future 
studies should aim to investigate the association in a prospective design in the 
Middle East.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-05416-z
PMCID: PMC12223243
PMID: 40603372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The ethics board of the National Nutrition and Food Technology 
Research Institute of Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Science approved the 
study protocol, approval number [IR.SBMU.NNFTRI.REC.1402.027], and a written 
informed consent was obtained from all participants before enrolment in the 
study. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


87. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;12(8):100261. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100261.  Epub 2025 Jul 1.

The Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study - Activities of Daily Living 
dependence score: revision and validation of an algorithm evaluating patient 
dependence across the spectrum of AD severity.

Chandler JM(1), Lansdall CJ(2), Ye W(3), McDougall F(4), Belger M(5), Toth B(6), 
Mi X(7), Sink KM(8), Atkins AS(9).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. Electronic address: 
juliechandler24@gmail.com.
(2)F. Hoffman-LaRoche AG, Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
claire.lansdall@roche.com.
(3)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. Electronic address: 
ye_wendy_wenyu@lilly.com.
(4)Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA. Electronic address: 
mcdougall.fiona@gene.com.
(5)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. Electronic address: 
belger_mark@lilly.com.
(6)Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA. Electronic address: 
toth.balazs@gene.com.
(7)TechData Services Company, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, USA. Electronic 
address: mi_xiaojuan@network.lilly.com.
(8)Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA. Electronic address: 
ksink@cogstate.com.
(9)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. Electronic address: 
atkins_alexandra@lilly.com.

BACKGROUND: Increasing dependence on informal and formal caregivers in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) contributes to high societal cost. Treatments that 
delay time to increased dependence/care needs would be clinically meaningful, 
but these outcomes are rarely collected in early AD clinical trials. The 2015 
ADCS-ADL dependence algorithm was created to estimate level of dependence in AD.
OBJECTIVES: To revise the original dependence algorithm to improve accuracy of 
dependence scores (DS) across AD severity, including early symptomatic AD.
DESIGN: Secondary data analysis SETTING: Community cohort; randomized clinical 
trial PARTICIPANTS: 14,000 participants enrolled across GERAS-EU observational 
study and 12 AD clinical trials.
MEASUREMENTS: Three-phase algorithm revision: 1) reassess ADCS-ADL items to 
identify those appropriate for assessing dependence; 2) (a) assign individual 
item responses to degrees of assistance and (b) to operationalize assignment of 
DS based on extent of total assistance needed; and 3) validate revised algorithm 
in multiple datasets across AD severity from mild cognitive impairment due to AD 
to moderate-severe AD.
RESULTS: The revised DS (0-6) algorithm classified most participants with early 
symptomatic AD as independent or moderately independent (DS<3) at baseline. With 
disease progression over time, the proportion of participants who were mildly to 
fully dependent (DS≥3) increased across AD severity. Increased DS was associated 
with incremental worsening of clinical outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The revised ADCS-ADL DS algorithm provides a supplementary approach 
to evaluate the impact of emerging treatments on independence/care needs in AD 
and may be useful in clinical trials where the ADCS-ADL has been collected.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION INFORMATION: EXPEDITION 1 NCT00905372; EXPEDITION 2 
NCT00904683; EXPEDITION 3 NCT01900665; AMARANTH NCT02245737; TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 
NCT03367403; TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 NCT04437511; GRADUATE I NCT03444870; GRADUATE II 
NCT03443973; CREAD NCT02670083; CREAD 2, NCT03114657; TAURIEL NCT03289143; 
LAURIET NCT03828747.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100261
PMCID: PMC12413719
PMID: 40603145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Julie M. Chandler was an employee 
of Eli Lilly and Company during the work for this manuscript. Wenyu Ye, Mark 
Belger, and Alexandra S. Atkins are employees and minor shareholders of Eli 
Lilly and Company. Xiaojuan Mi is an employee of TechData Services Company. 
Claire J. Lansdall is an employee and minor shareholder of F. Hoffmann-La Roche 
AG. Fiona McDougall and Balazs Toth are employees Genentech, Inc., a member of 
the Roche Group, and minor shareholders of F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG. Kaycee M. 
Sink was an employee of Genentech, Inc., a member of the Roche Group, during the 
work for this manuscript. At the time of publication, she is a full-time 
employee of Cogstate, Inc., which had no role in the study. Kaycee M. Sink is a 
minor shareholder of F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG.


88. J Nippon Med Sch. 2025;92(3):226-233. doi: 10.1272/jnms.JNMS.2025_92-306.

Impact of Sex Differences in Oligodendrocytes and Their Progenitor Cells on the 
Pathophysiology of Neuropsychiatric Disorders.

Kato D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Graduate School of Medicine, Nippon Medical School.

Neuropsychiatric disorders such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and 
autism spectrum disorder exhibit significant sex differences in prevalence, 
progression, and response to treatment. Emerging evidence suggests that 
oligodendrocytes (OLs) and oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) play pivotal 
roles in these pathologies via mechanisms involving neuroinflammation, energy 
metabolism, and hormonal modulation, resulting in distinct functional outcomes. 
Specifically, female OPCs display higher proliferative and migratory capacities, 
whereas male OPCs are more prone to differentiation and myelination, thus 
contributing to robust myelin integrity. Dysregulation of these cells disrupts 
myelination and exacerbates disease progression. Addressing sex-specific gene 
expression in OPCs and OLs is therefore considered crucial for the development 
of targeted therapeutic strategies. This review highlights the significance of 
sex differences in the proliferation and differentiation of OPCs, as well as 
gene expression changes in OPCs and OLs, and emphasizes their contribution to 
the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders. Improved understanding of 
these differences is vital for advancing personalized sex-specific treatments 
and improving the clinical outcomes of neuropsychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1272/jnms.JNMS.2025_92-306
PMID: 40603012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Aging Dis. 2025 Jun 26;16(4):1785-1792. doi: 10.14336/AD.2025.10618.

Recent Advances in Aging-Related Diseases: Accelerated Aging, Molecular 
Mechanisms, Interventions, and Therapies.

Afraz ES(1), Hoseinikhah SA(2), Moradikor N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine, School of Dentistry, Semnan University of 
Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
(2)Emergency Medicine Physician, Victoria, Australia.
(3)International Center for Neuroscience Research, Institute for Intelligent 
Research, Tbilisi, Georgia.

Aging is a multifaceted biological process influenced by cellular stress, 
mitochondrial dysfunction, and immune system alterations. This editorial 
commentary categorizes recent findings of Aging and Disease into three main 
areas: the acceleration of aging, prediction of age-related decline, and 
emerging therapeutic strategies. Research indicates that factors such as 
oxidative stress, chronic inflammation, and genetic predispositions contribute 
to premature cellular aging and the onset of age-related diseases. Recent 
advances in biomarkers and machine learning have improved our ability to predict 
biological age and associated risks, including sarcopenia and cardiovascular 
decline. Promising therapeutic interventions such as mitochondrial 
transplantation, immune system modulation, and targeted gene therapies show 
efficacy in decelerating aging processes and treating conditions such as 
Alzheimer's disease and tissue fibrosis. A deeper understanding of these 
interconnected mechanisms lays the groundwork for developing personalized 
interventions that promote healthy aging.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2025.10618
PMCID: PMC12221415
PMID: 40603003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest in 
this work.


90. J Emerg Nurs. 2025 Jul;51(4):553-569. doi: 10.1016/j.jen.2025.04.002.

Case Report: Care of the Agitated Emergency Department Patient With Alzheimer's 
Disease.

McGillivray IL, Chen A, Normandin PA.

Global estimates of persons in various stages of Alzheimer's disease, a form of 
dementia, were estimated to be at 416 million. It is estimated that 22% of 
people who are 50 years of age or older have Alzheimer's disease. According to 
the National Institute on Aging, millions of families took care of loved ones at 
home who had serious chronic diseases, which included Alzheimer's disease. It is 
important that these statistics are understood by emergency nurses because their 
assigned emergency patient may be in any stage of Alzheimer's disease. This case 
report is about a patient with advanced Alzheimer's disease being cared for at 
home by her daughter, an experienced emergency nurse. The patient developed 
uncontrollable agitation owing to Alzheimer's disease dementia that necessitated 
multiple emergency department visits. A gap in emergency nurses' knowledge of 
available resources to help family members navigate home care of loved ones with 
Alzheimer's disease was identified. Tools that empower emergency nurses during 
care of patients with uncontrolled Alzheimer's disease agitation are provided. 
Palliative and hospice services available for loved ones with Alzheimer's 
disease are discussed. Emergency nurses are encouraged to share information with 
families to facilitate dignity during a loved one's end of life.

Copyright © 2025 Emergency Nurses Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jen.2025.04.002
PMID: 40602844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Brain. 2025 Aug 1;148(8):2684-2697. doi: 10.1093/brain/awaf152.

Biomarker evidence of neurodegeneration in mid-life former rugby players.

Graham NSN(1)(2)(3), Zimmerman KA(1)(2)(3), Hain J(1)(2), Rooney E(1)(2)(4), Lee 
Y(1)(2)(4), Del Giovane M(1)(2), Parker T(1)(2)(3), Wilson MG(4)(5), Malhotra 
P(1)(2), David MCB(1)(2), Kolanko M(1)(2), Patel M(6), Veleva E(7)(8), Swann 
O(7)(8), Heslegrave A(7)(8), Zetterberg H(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12), Friedland 
D(1)(2), Sylvester R(4)(13), Sharp DJ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)UK Dementia Research Institute Centre for Care Research & Technology Centre, 
Imperial College London, London W12 0BZ, UK.
(2)Department of Brain Sciences, Imperial College London, London W12 0BZ, UK.
(3)Centre for Injury Studies, Imperial College London, London W12 0BZ, UK.
(4)Institute of Sport, Exercise and Health (ISEH), University College London, 
London W1T 7HA, UK.
(5)HCA Healthcare, HCA Healthcare Research Institute, London W1T 7HA, UK.
(6)Department of Imaging, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London W6 8RF, 
UK.
(7)UCL, UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London WC1N 
3BG, UK.
(8)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK.
(9)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal 413 
90, Sweden.
(10)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal 
413 45, Sweden.
(11)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(12)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI 53792, USA.
(13)Acute Stroke and Brain Injury Unit, National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK.

Repetitive head impacts and traumatic brain injuries in contact sports, such as 
rugby union, are associated with increased risk of neurodegenerative diseases 
such as Alzheimer's disease and chronic traumatic encephalopathy. Advances in 
fluid and imaging biomarkers are transforming dementia diagnosis but have not 
been systematically applied to individuals previously exposed to head impacts 
during rugby participation. We used biomarkers, including those with sensitivity 
and specificity for early Alzheimer's pathology to explore neurodegenerative 
risk in mid-life elite retired rugby players with significant repetitive head 
impact exposure. Plasma neurofilament light, glial fibrillary acid protein, 
amyloid-β (Aβ)42, Aβ40 and phospho-tau217 were quantified using ultrasensitive 
single molecule array digital enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (SiMoA) in 
former elite rugby players as well as age/sex-matched unexposed controls. 3 T 
MRI and neuropsychology assessments were performed, with National Institute for 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke criteria used to ascertain the presence of 
traumatic encephalopathy syndrome. Regression models were used to relate 
plasma/imaging biomarkers to clinical phenotype. Individual-levels analyses were 
performed for fluid and imaging metrics, based on control biomarker 
distributions. Biomarker data from two aligned un-exposed Alzheimer's cohorts 
were included to contextualize our findings. Two hundred ex-rugby players 
(median age 44 years, 90% males) and 33 unexposed controls were assessed. 
Twenty-four (12%) ex-players fulfilled criteria for traumatic encephalopathy 
syndrome but none had dementia. Plasma phospho-tau217 concentrations were 17.6% 
higher in ex-rugby players than controls (95% confidence interval 3.7-33.3, P = 
0.047). A total of 46 (23.1%) ex-players had elevated phospho-tau217 at the 
individual level; as did 18 (9.0%) players in relation to raised plasma 
neurofilament light. Ex-players' concentrations were lower than in unexposed 
adults with late onset Alzheimer's disease (n = 69). Ex-players also showed 
significantly reduced volumes in the frontal/cingulate cortex on voxel-based 
morphometry at the group level; with reduced white matter and lower hippocampal 
volume associated with longer career durations within ex-players. 
Trauma-associated white matter changes measured with diffusion tensor imaging 
were uncommon in ex-players (4.6%). Traumatic encephalopathy syndrome was 
significantly more common in ex-players with elevated phospho-tau217, while 
those with raised plasma neurofilament light had significantly more anxiety and 
depressive symptoms. Frontal brain volumes correlated negatively with 
neurofilament light (r = -0.21, P = 0.010), and hippocampal volumes correlated 
negatively with phospho-tau217 (r = -0.19, P = 0.024). Elite rugby participation 
is associated with abnormal fluid and neuroimaging neurodegeneration biomarkers 
in mid-life. These include elevated phospho-tau217, which may indicate 
amyloid-dependent tau pathology. The results provide support for using 
state-of-the-art neurodegenerative biomarkers in the evaluation of long-term 
effects of sports head impact exposure.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awaf152
PMCID: PMC12316018
PMID: 40602789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: D.J.S. has received support of blood biomarker 
analysis (unrelated to this paper) by Quanterix and Alamar. D.J.S. and R.J.S. 
participate in an expert panel advising the English Rugby Football Union on 
concussion and related issues. D.J.S. has received an honorarium from the Rugby 
Football Union for his participation, which has been used for research purposes. 
R.J.S. acts as an independent concussion expert for World Rugby and receives 
payment for providing independent clinical care for professional players 
following head injuries. D.J.S. and R.S. have received complementary tickets to 
international rugby matches paid for by the Rugby Football Union. ISEH invoices 
the Rugby Football Union for the number of ex-players seen in clinic per 
quarter. In turn, D.J.S., R.S., D.F. and M.P. receive pass through payment from 
ISEH for the provision of private clinical services. ISEH receives funding from 
the RFU and FA to employ E.J.R. and Y.L. for the provision of research services. 
Imperial College London receive funding from the RFU and FA to support the 
employment of J.A.H., K.A.Z., M.D.G. for the provision of research services. 
H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, 
Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside the submitted 
work).


92. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 15;1003:177886. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177886. 
Epub 2025 Jun 30.

Optimizing the structure of repurposed metformin can improve anti-cholinesterase 
and anti-amyloidogenic effects.

Markowicz-Piasecka M(1), Laitinen T(2), Huttunen KM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Pharmacy, Medical University of Lodz, Ul. Muszyńskiego 
1, 90-151, Lodz, Poland. Electronic address: magdalena.markowicz@umed.lodz.pl.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, P.O. Box 1627, FI-70211, Kuopio, Finland.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, P.O. Box 1627, FI-70211, Kuopio, Finland. Electronic address: 
kristiina.huttunen@uef.fi.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and diabetes mellitus (DM) share common pathological 
features, including insulin resistance, oxidative stress, and inflammation, 
suggesting AD may be considered a brain-specific form of DM. Metformin, a widely 
used antidiabetic drug, has shown neuroprotective effects potentially beneficial 
in AD by modulating insulin signaling, reducing inflammation, and inhibiting 
beta-amyloid (Aβ) aggregation. However, its hydrophilic nature limits brain 
permeability, prompting the synthesis of metformin derivatives to enhance 
pharmacokinetic properties. This study investigates a series of sulfonamide 
derivatives of metformin for their cholinesterase (ChE) inhibition using human 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), anti-Aβ 
aggregation using thioflavin T fluorescence assay in vitro, and antioxidative 
properties in human umbilical endothelial cells (HUVEC) and astrocytes. In vitro 
assays revealed that studied derivatives exhibit selective inhibitory activity 
against BChE over AChE. Additionally, certain derivatives demonstrated a 
synergistic effect with donepezil in AChE inhibition. The derivatives 
effectively inhibited also Aβ aggregation at both early and late stages, which 
may reduce Aβ plaque formation. Furthermore, the antioxidative properties of 
these derivatives were validated in cell-based assays, showing protective 
effects against oxidative stress in HUVEC and astrocytes. Thus, these findings 
suggest that metformin derivatives could serve as a dual-action therapy for AD 
by targeting both cholinergic and amyloidogenic pathways while providing 
antioxidative support. Future studies may focus on refining these compounds to 
optimize therapeutic potential in AD treatment, presenting a promising approach 
for repurposing antidiabetic drugs to address neurodegenerative disease 
mechanisms.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177886
PMID: 40602675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


93. Exp Neurol. 2025 Oct;392:115365. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115365. Epub
2025  Jun 30.

Aromatase inhibition modulates intrinsic properties and excitability of 
hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells in the APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer's 
disease.

French AR(1), Christian-Hinman CA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, University of Illinois 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, USA; School of Pharmacy, University of 
Wyoming, Laramie, WY 82071, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, University of Illinois 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, USA; Neuroscience Program, University of 
Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, USA; Beckman Institute for Advanced 
Science & Technology, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, 
USA; Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology, University of Illinois 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, USA. Electronic address: 
cathchri@illinois.edu.

Changes in the hippocampus stemming from heightened neuronal excitability 
contribute to memory loss in AD. In this context the role of estradiol, the 
primary estrogen in the brain, is mixed as it generally supports cognition but 
is also pro-convulsive. In addition to circulating ovarian estradiol in females, 
neurons in both males and females, including many of those in the hippocampus, 
express the enzyme aromatase, which converts testosterone to estradiol. Previous 
studies suggest that aromatase inhibition modulates hippocampal function and 
excitability, demonstrating actions of local neuroestradiol. However, how the 
role of estradiol in regulating hippocampal excitability changes in the context 
of AD is unknown. Here we investigated whether inhibition of aromatase modifies 
hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell intrinsic excitability in the APP/PS1 mouse model 
of AD, which is prone to hyperexcitability and seizures. Mice at 11-14 weeks old 
received daily injections of the aromatase inhibitor letrozole or vehicle for 
7 days. 24 h after the final injection, acute slices through the dorsal 
hippocampus were prepared and the response function of CA1 pyramidal cells to 
injected current was measured using whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology. 
CA1 pyramidal cells in vehicle-treated gonad-intact APP/PS1 mice showed 
increased excitability compared to those in wild-type counterparts, and this 
difference was reversed by letrozole. Furthermore, the effects of APP/PS1 
genotype and of letrozole in females were abolished after ovariectomy. Overall, 
these results suggest that estradiol plays a complex role in regulating 
hippocampal excitability in AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115365
PMID: 40602590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interests.


94. J Frailty Aging. 2025 Aug;14(4):100064. doi: 10.1016/j.tjfa.2025.100064. Epub
 2025 Jul 1.

Associations between intrinsic capacity, plasma p-tau181 and cognitive function 
over a 5-year follow-up among community-dwelling older adults: a secondary 
analysis of the MAPT Study.

Giudici KV(1), de Souto Barreto P(2), Cantet C(2), Zetterberg H(3), Blennow 
K(4), Vellas B(2); MAPT/DSA group.

Author information:
(1)IHU HealthAge, Gerontopole of Toulouse, Institute of Ageing, Toulouse 
University Hospital (CHU Toulouse), Toulouse, France. Electronic address: 
kellygiudici@gmail.com.
(2)IHU HealthAge, Gerontopole of Toulouse, Institute of Ageing, Toulouse 
University Hospital (CHU Toulouse), Toulouse, France; CERPOP UMR1295, University 
of Toulouse III, Inserm UPS, Toulouse, France.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden; Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of 
Neurology, Queen Square, London, United Kingdom; UK Dementia Research Institute 
at UCL, London, United Kingdom; Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, PR China; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, University 
of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Intrinsic capacity (IC) is a recent key concept proposed by the 
World Health Organization (WHO) based on aspects of functional ability (both 
physical and mental) rather than the presence or absence of diseases, with a 
potential to predict several health outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: To explore associations between IC and cognitive function 
(prospectively), and between IC and plasma p-tau181 (cross-sectionally and 
prospectively) among community-dwelling older adults.
METHODS: Observational study with 491 subjects ≥70 years (67.4 % female, mean 
75.3 years, SD=4.4), participants from the Multidomain Alzheimer Preventive 
Trial (MAPT). IC domains (locomotion, cognition, psychological, vitality) were 
combined into a 0-100 score. Alternative classification was based on the number 
of domains' abnormalities. Plasma p-tau181 was measured at baseline and 36 
months of follow-up. A composite cognitive score (CCS) based on four tests was 
determined at baseline, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months.
RESULTS: Inverse cross-sectional associations were observed between baseline IC 
score and p-tau181 (unadjusted model: β=-0.08, 95 %CI -0.13 to -0.03; p = 
0.0025). A significant mean difference in p-tau181 3-year changes was observed 
between participants with low and normal IC (based on IC score) (adjusted model: 
1.71, 95 %CI 0.01 to 3.40; p = 0.0483). Prospective 5-year associations between 
IC and CCS were only observed in unadjusted analysis according to the 
alternative IC classification (-0.21, 95 %CI -0.38 to -0.04; p = 0.0156).
CONCLUSION: IC was associated with plasma p-tau181 and cognitive function, but 
findings varied according to the method of IC classification. Further research 
may help settle the role of IC as a predictor of neurodegenerative diseases such 
as AD. In this regard, multidomain interventions have potential to protect IC 
over the aging process and prevent cognitive impairment, and should also be 
encouraged.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjfa.2025.100064
PMCID: PMC12399254
PMID: 40601428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest HZ has served 
at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, 
Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, 
AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merry 
Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, 
Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures sponsored by 
Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, 
Roche, and WebMD, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg 
AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside 
submitted work). KB has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for 
Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, Beckman-Coulter, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, 
Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Quanterix, 
Roche Diagnostics, Sanofi and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data 
monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, 
produced educational materials and participated in educational programs for AC 
Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper. 
The other authors declare no conflicts.


95. Age Ageing. 2025 Jul 1;54(7):afaf169. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afaf169.

Influenza vaccination and risk of dementia: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Yang WK(1)(2), Shao SC(3)(4), Liu CC(3), Chi CC(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Education, Keelung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Keelung, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Keelung Chang Gung 
Memorial Hospital, Keelung, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Keelung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 222, Maijin Rd, 
Anle District, Keelung 204201, Taiwan.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Institute of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Linkou Main Branch, 
Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(6)School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The association between influenza vaccination and a reduction in 
dementia was unclear with inconsistent evidence. We aimed to evaluate the 
association between influenza vaccination and dementia risk in the overall 
population and the high-risk populations for dementia, such as patients with 
chronic kidney syndrome (CKD), chronic obstruction pulmonary disease (COPD) and 
vascular disease.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review and searched PubMed, Embase and 
CENTRAL from inception to 6 April 2025. The risk of bias was assessed using the 
Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. A random-effects model meta-analysis was executed.
RESULTS: We included eight cohort studies with 9,938,696 subjects. Except for 
one study, the risk of bias of all other included studies was low. Influenza 
vaccination was associated with a reduced risk of incident dementia in high-risk 
populations for dementia, but not in the overall population (HR 0.93; 95% CI: 
0.86-1.01). For high-risk populations, more than one dose of influenza 
vaccination showed an association with a lower risk of incident dementia (2-3 
doses: HR 0.84; 95% CI: 0.76-0.92; ≥ 4 doses: HR 0.43; 95% CI: 0.38-0.48).
CONCLUSION: Influenza vaccination was associated with a decreasing risk of 
incident dementia in a dose-response manner.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please 
contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All 
other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the 
Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please 
contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afaf169
PMID: 40601364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Jul;33(7):3885-3895. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01831-w.  Epub 2025 Jul 2.

Targeting the redox neuroinflammatory nexus: insights into Alzheimer's and 
Parkinson's diseases.

Dharshini LCP(1), Sakthivel KM(2), Rex KGR(3), Rasmi RR(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, PSG College of Arts and Science, Civil Aerodrome 
Post, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, 641014, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, PSG College of Arts and Science, Civil Aerodrome 
Post, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, 641014, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Vivekanandha College of Engineering for Women 
(Autonomous), Tiruchengode, Namakkal, Tamil Nadu, 637205, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, PSG College of Arts and Science, Civil Aerodrome 
Post, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, 641014, India. rashmiffrajan@gmail.com.

Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, are 
characterized by the progressive deterioration of neuronal structure and 
function within the central and peripheral nervous systems. Among the 
multifactorial mechanisms implicated in their pathogenesis, oxidative stress and 
chronic neuroinflammation have emerged as pivotal contributors. An imbalance in 
redox homeostasis, marked by excessive generation of reactive oxygen species 
(ROS) and impaired antioxidant defenses, leads to sustained activation of 
inflammatory pathways and exacerbation of neuronal injury. This intricate 
interplay, known as the redox-neuroinflammatory nexus, constitutes a central 
axis in the onset and progression of neurodegeneration. This review underscores 
the critical role of redox imbalance in neurodegenerative processes and provides 
a comprehensive analysis of the oxidative stress and inflammation crosstalk in 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, offering insights into potential 
therapeutic targets.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01831-w
PMID: 40601284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


97. Expert Rev Neurother. 2025 Sep;25(9):1119-1129. doi: 
10.1080/14737175.2025.2527211. Epub 2025 Jul 3.

An overview of the rivastigmine 13.3 mg/24h transdermal patch as a treatment 
option for Alzheimer's disease.

Fortea J(1)(2)(3), Ferrer-Picón E(4).

Author information:
(1)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i 
Sant Pau, Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Center of Biomedical Investigation Network for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana de Síndrome de Down, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Medical Department, Almirall S.A, Barcelona, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Rivastigmine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, was first approved for 
the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia more than 20 years ago. 
Initially available as an oral formulation, a transdermal system was 
subsequently developed with the aim of improving tolerability while providing 
similar efficacy. Transdermal rivastigmine is approved for the treatment of 
severe AD as well as mild-to-moderate AD.
AREAS COVERED: Herein, the authors review randomized clinical trials, 
meta-analyses, and post-marketing observational studies involving the 
rivastigmine 13.3 mg/24 h patch for the treatment of patients with AD.
EXPERT OPINION: Cholinesterase inhibitors are a mainstay of the symptomatic 
treatment of patients with AD. Rivastigmine is available as oral and transdermal 
formulations, with the latter providing improved tolerability and convenience 
while maintaining efficacy. The high-dose 13.3 mg/24 h patch might offer 
benefits for some patients compared to the lower dose patch (4.6 mg/24 h) in 
patients with mild-to-moderate or severe AD, showing improvements in daily 
functioning and global clinical status on top of the cognitive benefits. The 
ability to titrate up to a dose of 13.3 mg/24 h provides an option for patients 
with severe AD or with an inadequate response to lower doses of rivastigmine.

DOI: 10.1080/14737175.2025.2527211
PMID: 40600688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2025 Jun 24. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273370166250610152453. Online ahead of print.

Harnessing Nature's Bounty: The Neuroprotective Potential of Phytoconstituents 
and Nanotechnology in Neurodegenerative Disease Therapeutics.

Tripathi S(1), Sharma Y(1), Kumar D(2).

Author information:
(1)Poona College of Pharmacy, Bharati Vidyapeeth (Deemed to be) University, 
Pune, Maharashtra, 411038, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, 576104, Karnataka, 
India.

Investigations into the bioactive components of plant-based natural products 
indicate promising therapeutic potential for neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), 
including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's 
disease (HD). The loss and dysfunction of neurons characterize these disorders. 
Effective therapeutic guidelines are still elusive despite advances in our 
comprehension of NDs, in part because of unanswered questions about the safety 
and efficacy of natural therapies. On the other hand, preclinical models have 
shown that natural products-such as fruits, vegetables, nuts, herbs, and 
phytoconstituents found in freshwater and marine flora-have neuroprotective 
effects. These substances have the ability to work through a variety of 
pathways, halting cell death and reinstating neuronal activity. According to 
recent research, adding these phytoconstituents to nanocarriers, such as 
nanoparticles, can improve their selectivity and stability, possibly boosting 
the effectiveness of treatment. By making these agents more specific to target 
sites, nanotechnology presents a promising treatment option for NDs. Clinical 
trials assessing the efficacy of these natural compounds in treating 
neurological conditions are becoming more common as research advances, 
underscoring their potential as neuroprotective drugs. This study primarily 
focuses on the therapeutic efficacy of specific natural compounds and their 
bioactive components, which exhibit neuroprotective benefits in conditions 
associated with undiagnosed depression. Several preclinical models have 
demonstrated better results when natural derivatives are used, which has led to 
an increase in the use of natural therapies for treating NDs. Overall, despite 
ongoing difficulties, natural products have a great deal of promise for treating 
and preventing NDs; however, more research is needed to determine safe and 
effective treatment modalities.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273370166250610152453
PMID: 40600563


99. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2025 Jun 24. doi:
10.2174/0113892010326797250422095516.  Online ahead of print.

Elucidating the Role of Gardeniae Fructus and Scutellariae Radix Herb Pair in 
Alzheimer's Disease via Network Pharmacology: Emphasis on Oxidative Stress, and 
the PI3K/Akt Pathway.

Ye JX(1), Wu JY(2), Zhu M(1), Ai L(1), Huang Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chinese Medicine, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510120, China.
(2)Department of Stomatology, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510120, China.

BACKGROUND: The combination of Gardeniae Fructus (ZZ) and Scutellariae Radix 
(HQ) is a traditional Chinese medicine used for Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
However, the molecular mechanisms underlying its anti-dementia effects, 
particularly its multi-component synergy and pathway modulation, remain poorly 
understood.
OBJECTIVE: Our study employed an integrated systems pharmacology approach to 
mechanistically decode the anti-AD properties of ZZ-HQ, combining network 
pharmacology predictions, molecular docking simulations, and experimental 
validation to identify critical bioactive components, molecular targets, and 
therapeutic pathways.
METHODS: A comprehensive network pharmacology analysis was performed to identify 
bioactive compounds within the ZZ-HQ complex and their potential protein targets 
associated with AD. Molecular docking was utilized to predict and assess the 
binding interactions between key bioactive compounds and AD-related protein 
targets. Experimental validation focused on baicalin, a major active compound in 
the ZZ-HQ complex, evaluating its effects on cell viability, apoptosis 
regulation, oxidative stress reduction, and the activation of the PI3K/Akt 
signaling pathway.
RESULTS: Fifty-four bioactive compounds were identified in the ZZ-HQ complex, 
interacting with 258 AD-associated proteins. Key compounds, such as baicalein 
and norwogonin, demonstrated strong binding affinities with pivotal proteins, 
including SRC and PIK3R1. Experimental studies further confirmed that baicalin 
significantly improved cell viability by activating the PI3K/Akt pathway, 
reducing apoptosis, and alleviating oxidative stress.
CONCLUSION: Our study uncovered the therapeutic potential of the ZZ-HQ 
combination in addressing AD through multi-target mechanisms, particularly via 
modulation of the PI3K/Akt pathway and oxidative stress. These findings provide 
a scientific basis for the pharmacological effects of ZZ-HQ and offer valuable 
insights for further research on its potential application in AD treatment.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113892010326797250422095516
PMID: 40600562


100. Curr Med Chem. 2025 Jun 23. doi: 10.2174/0109298673366495250527055016.
Online  ahead of print.

Investigating the Biomarkers for Alzheimer's Disease: Insights from Microarray 
Analysis, Mendelian Randomization, and Experimental Validation.

Zhu Y(1), Jin X(2), Liu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, 
Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200072, China.
(2)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Fengxian District Nanqiao 
Community Health Center, Shanghai, 201400, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia 
worldwide, with a steadily increasing prevalence. However, the mechanisms 
underlying AD remain unclear, and current treatments have only limited efficacy.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to identify potential biomarker genes for AD and to 
explore the underlying mechanisms by integrating microarray analysis, Mendelian 
randomization (MR), and experimental validation.
METHODS: AD-related microarray datasets were downloaded from the Gene Expression 
Omnibus database. Differential expression analysis identified differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) between AD and control samples. Summary-level data from 
genomewide association studies on AD were integrated with expression 
quantitative trait loci data to identify genes with potential causal 
relationships with AD using MR. The intersections between DEGs and causal genes 
were identified as hub genes. Functional analysis was performed to explore 
underlying mechanisms. Quantitative real-time PCR was applied to validate the 
expression of hub genes in clinical samples.
RESULTS: Differential expression analysis identified 312 DEGs, whereas MR 
identified 202 genes with causal effects on AD. The intersection of these two 
sets identified four hub genes: FCRLB, MT2A, PFKFB3, and SRGN. Functional 
analysis indicated significant associations between AD and immune-related 
pathways. Correlation analysis revealed significant connections between hub 
genes and immune cells in AD. The expression of MT2A, PFKFB3, and SRGN was 
significantly upregulated, whereas FCRLB was downregulated in clinical AD 
samples compared with controls.
CONCLUSION: The integration of microarray analysis, MR, and experimental 
validation identified and validated four potential biomarker genes with causal 
effects on AD, namely FCRLB, MT2A, PFKFB3, and SRGN. Functional analysis 
indicated a pivotal role of the immune microenvironment in AD. These findings 
offer insights into the molecular mechanisms of AD and have implications for 
improving its diagnosis and treatment strategies.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0109298673366495250527055016
PMID: 40600553