1. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 31;25(21):11719. doi: 10.3390/ijms252111719.

Tetradecyl 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoate Improves Cognitive Function in AD Mice by 
Modulating Autophagy and Inflammation Through IPA and Hsc70 Targeting.

Fasina OB(1), Li L(1), Chen D(1), Yi M(1), Xiang L(1), Qi J(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Zhejiang University, 866 Yu Hang Road, 
Hangzhou 310058, China.

Drug development for Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment is challenging due to 
its complex pathogenesis. Tetradecyl 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate (ABG-001), a leading 
compound identified in our prior research, has shown promising NGF-mimicking 
activity and anti-aging properties. In the present study, both high-fat diet 
(HFD)-induced AD mice and naturally aging AD mice were used to evaluate anti-AD 
effects. Meanwhile, RNA-sequences, Western blotting, immunofluorescence 
staining, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), cellular thermal shift 
assay (CETSA), drug affinity-responsive target stability (DARTS) assay, 
construction of expression plasmid and protein purification, surface plasmon 
resonance (SPR) analysis, and 16S rRNA sequence analysis were used to identify 
the target protein of ABG-001 and clarify the mechanism of action for this 
molecule. ABG-001 effectively mitigates the memory dysfunction in both 
HFD-induced AD mice and naturally aging AD mice. The therapeutic effect of 
ABG-001 is attributed to its ability to promote neurogenesis, activate 
chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), and reduce neuronal inflammation. 
Additionally, ABG-001 positively influenced the gut microbiota, enhancing the 
production of indole-3-propionic acid (IPA), which is capable of crossing the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) and contributes to neuronal regeneration. Furthermore, 
our research revealed that IPA, linked to the anti-AD properties of ABG-001, 
targets the heat shock cognate 70 kDa protein (Hsc70) and regulates the 
Hsc70/PKM2/HK2/LC3 and FOXO3a/SIRT1 signaling pathways. ABG-001 improves the 
memory dysfunction of AD mice by modulating autophagy and inflammation through 
IPA and Hsc70 targeting. These findings offer a novel approach for treating 
neurodegenerative diseases, focusing on the modification of the gut microbiota 
and metabolites coupled with anti-aging strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252111719
PMCID: PMC11547019
PMID: 39519271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest regarding the publication of this paper.


2. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 30;25(21):11689. doi: 10.3390/ijms252111689.

Amino Acid Compound 2 (AAC2) Treatment Counteracts Insulin-Induced Synaptic Gene 
Expression and Seizure-Related Mortality in a Mouse Model of Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Deng Z(1), Lee A(1)(2), Lin T(3), Taneja S(3), Kowdley D(1), Leung JH(1), Hill 
M(1), Tao T(4), Fitzgerald J(5), Yu L(6), Blakeslee JJ(7), Townsend K(4), Weil 
ZM(5)(8), Parquette JR(3), Ziouzenkova O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Sciences, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, 
USA.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, Myongji University, 116 Myongji-ro, 
Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si 17058, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
(4)Department of Neurological Surgery, The Ohio State University College of 
Medicine, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, 
USA.
(6)Department of Biomedical Informatics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 
43210, USA.
(7)Department of Horticulture and Crop Science, Ohio Agricultural Research and 
Development Center (OARDC), The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
(8)Department of Neuroscience, WVU Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute, West 
Virginia University, Biomedical Research Center (BMRC), Morgantown, WV 26506, 
USA.

Diabetes is a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amino acid 
compound 2 (AAC2) improves glycemic and cognitive functions in diabetic mouse 
models through mechanisms distinct from insulin. Our goal was to compare the 
effects of AAC2, insulin, and their nanofiber-forming combination on early 
asymptomatic AD pathogenesis in APP/PS1 mice. Insulin, but not AAC2 or the 
combination treatment (administered intraperitoneally every 48 h for 120 days), 
increased seizure-related mortality, altered the brain fat-to-lean mass ratio, 
and improved specific cognitive functions in APP/PS1 mice. NanoString and 
pathway analysis of cerebral gene expression revealed dysregulated synaptic 
mechanisms, with upregulation of Bdnf and downregulation of Slc1a6 in 
insulin-treated mice, correlating with insulin-induced seizures. In contrast, 
AAC2 promoted the expression of Syn2 and Syp synaptic genes, preserved brain 
composition, and improved survival. The combination of AAC2 and insulin 
counteracted free insulin's effects. None of the treatments influenced canonical 
amyloidogenic pathways. This study highlights AAC2's potential in regulating 
synaptic gene expression in AD and insulin-induced contexts related to seizure 
activity.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252111689
PMCID: PMC11546384
PMID: 39519239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


3. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 30;25(21):11658. doi: 10.3390/ijms252111658.

Epigenetic Explorations of Neurological Disorders, the Identification Methods, 
and Therapeutic Avenues.

Firdaus Z(1)(2), Li X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.

Neurodegenerative disorders are major health concerns globally, especially in 
aging societies. The exploration of brain epigenomes, which consist of multiple 
forms of DNA methylation and covalent histone modifications, offers new and 
unanticipated perspective into the mechanisms of aging and neurodegenerative 
diseases. Initially, chromatin defects in the brain were thought to be static 
abnormalities from early development associated with rare genetic syndromes. 
However, it is now evident that mutations and the dysregulation of the 
epigenetic machinery extend across a broader spectrum, encompassing adult-onset 
neurodegenerative diseases. Hence, it is crucial to develop methodologies that 
can enhance epigenetic research. Several approaches have been created to 
investigate alterations in epigenetics on a spectrum of scales-ranging from low 
to high-with a particular focus on detecting DNA methylation and histone 
modifications. This article explores the burgeoning realm of neuroepigenetics, 
emphasizing its role in enhancing our mechanistic comprehension of 
neurodegenerative disorders and elucidating the predominant techniques employed 
for detecting modifications in the epigenome. Additionally, we ponder the 
potential influence of these advancements on shaping future therapeutic 
approaches.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252111658
PMCID: PMC11546397
PMID: 39519209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


4. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 30;25(21):11638. doi: 10.3390/ijms252111638.

The Importance of Phosphoinositide 3-Kinase in Neuroinflammation.

Wright B(1)(2)(3), King S(1)(2)(3), Suphioglu C(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)NeuroAllergy Research Laboratory (NARL), School of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, Faculty of Science, Engineering and Built Environment, Deakin 
University, 75 Pigdons Road, Geelong, VIC 3216, Australia.
(2)Centre for Sustainable Bioproducts, School of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, Faculty of Science, Engineering and Built Environment, Deakin 
University, 75 Pigdons Road, Geelong, VIC 3216, Australia.
(3)Institute for Mental and Physical Health and Clinical Translation (IMPACT), 
Deakin University, 75 Pigdons Road, Geelong, VIC 3216, Australia.

Neuroinflammation, characterised by the activation of immune cells in the 
central nervous system (CNS), plays a dual role in both protecting against and 
contributing to the progression of neurodegenerative diseases, such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and multiple sclerosis (MS). This review explores the 
role of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), a key enzyme involved in cellular 
survival, proliferation, and inflammatory responses, within the context of 
neuroinflammation. Two PI3K isoforms of interest, PI3Kγ and PI3Kδ, are specific 
to the regulation of CNS cells, such as microglia, astrocytes, neurons, and 
oligodendrocytes, influencing pathways, such as Akt, mTOR, and NF-κB, that 
control cytokine production, immune cell activation, and neuroprotection. The 
dysregulation of PI3K signalling is implicated in chronic neuroinflammation, 
contributing to the exacerbation of neurodegenerative diseases. Preclinical 
studies show promise in targeting neuronal disorders using PI3K inhibitors, such 
as AS605240 (PI3Kγ) and idelalisib (PI3Kδ), which have reduced inflammation, 
microglial activation, and neuronal death in in vivo models of AD. However, the 
clinical translation of these inhibitors faces challenges, including blood-brain 
barrier (BBB) permeability, isoform specificity, and long-term safety concerns. 
This review highlights the therapeutic potential of PI3K modulation in 
neuroinflammatory diseases, identifying key gaps in the current research, 
particularly in the need for brain-penetrating and isoform-specific inhibitors. 
These findings underscore the importance of future research to develop targeted 
therapies that can effectively modulate PI3K activity and provide 
neuroprotection in chronic neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252111638
PMCID: PMC11546674
PMID: 39519189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


5. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 25;25(21):11472. doi: 10.3390/ijms252111472.

Longitudinal and Multi-Kingdom Gut Microbiome Alterations in a Mouse Model of 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Zhang T(1)(2)(3)(4), Zhao C(1)(2)(3)(4), Li N(1)(2)(3)(4), He Q(1)(2)(3)(4), Gao 
G(1)(2)(3)(4), Sun Z(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Ministry of Education, 
Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, Hohhot 010018, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Dairy Products Processing, Ministry of Agriculture and 
Rural Affairs, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, Hohhot 010018, China.
(3)Inner Mongolia Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Inner 
Mongolia Agricultural University, Hohhot 010018, China.
(4)Collaborative Innovative Center for Lactic Acid Bacteria and Fermented Dairy 
Products, Ministry of Education, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, Hohhot 
010018, China.

Gut microbial dysbiosis, especially bacteriome, has been implicated in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, nonbacterial members of the gut microbiome in 
AD, such as the mycobiome, archaeome, and virome, are unexplored. Here, we 
perform higher-resolution shotgun metagenomic sequencing on fecal samples 
collected longitudinally from a mouse model of AD to investigate longitudinal 
and multi-kingdom gut microbiome profiling. Shotgun metagenomic sequencing of 
fecal samples from AD mice and healthy mice returns 41,222 bacterial, 414 
fungal, 1836 archaeal, and 1916 viral species across all time points. The 
ecological network pattern of the gut microbiome in AD mice is characterized by 
more complex bacterial-bacterial interactions and fungal-fungal interactions, as 
well as simpler archaeal-archaeal interactions and viral-viral interactions. The 
development of AD is accompanied by multi-kingdom shifts in the gut microbiome 
composition, as evidenced by the identification of 1177 differential bacterial, 
84 differential fungal, 59 differential archaeal, and 10 differential viral 
species between healthy and AD mice across all time points. In addition, the 
functional potential of the gut microbiome is partially altered in the 
development of AD. Collectively, our findings uncover longitudinal and 
multi-kingdom gut microbiome alterations in AD and provide a motivation for 
considering microbiome-based therapeutics during the prevention and treatment of 
AD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252111472
PMCID: PMC11546883
PMID: 39519025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


6. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 23;25(21):11404. doi: 10.3390/ijms252111404.

Preparation and Pharmacokinetics of Brain-Targeted Nanoliposome Loaded with 
Rutin.

Wu C(1), Zhang J(1), Yang S(1), Peng C(1), Lv M(1), Liang J(1), Li X(1), Xie 
L(2), Wei Y(1), Chen H(1), He J(1), Hu T(1), Xie Z(2), Yu M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Guangxi Key Laboratory of Animal Breeding, Disease Control and Prevention, 
College of Animal Science and Technology, Guangxi University, Nanning 530004, 
China.
(2)Guangxi Key Laboratory of Veterinary Biotechnology, Guangxi Veterinary 
Research Institute, Nanning 530001, China.

Rutin is a flavonoid compound with potential for treating Alzheimer's disease, 
preventing brain damage, mitigating cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury, and 
exhibiting anti-glioblastoma activity. However, its efficacy is limited by its 
low solubility, poor bioavailability, and limited permeability across the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB). To enhance the bioavailability and brain-targeting 
ability of Rutin, transferrin-modified Rutin liposome (Tf-Rutin-Lip) was 
developed using liposomes as a delivery system. Rutin liposomes were prepared 
using the thin-film dispersion method, and the preparation conditions were 
optimized using the response surface methodology. Then, transferrin (Tf) was 
incorporated into the liposomes through covalent modification, yielding Tf-Rutin 
liposomes. The toxicity of these liposomes on bEnd.3 cells, as well as their 
impact on the tight junctions of these cells, was rigorously evaluated. 
Additionally, in vitro and in vivo experiments were conducted to validate the 
brain-targeting efficacy of the Tf-Rutin liposomes. A susceptible detection 
method was developed to characterize the pharmacokinetics of Tf-Rutin-Lip 
further. The optimized conditions for the preparation of Tf-Rutin-Lip were 
determined as follows: a lipid-to-cholesterol ratio of 4.63:1, a drug-to-lipid 
ratio of 1:45.84, a preparation temperature of 42.7 °C, a hydration volume of 20 
mL, a sonication time of 10 min, a surfactant concentration of 80 mg/mL, a 
DSPE-MPEG-2000 concentration of 5%, and a DSPE-PEG2000-COOH to DSPE-MPEG-2000 
molar ratio of 10%. The liposomes did not affect the cell activity of bEnd.3 
cells at 24 h and did not disrupt the tight junction of the blood-brain barrier. 
Tf-modified liposomes were taken up by bEnd.3 cells, which, in turn, passed 
through the BBB, thus improving liposomal brain targeting. Furthermore, the 
results of pharmacokinetic experiments showed that the Cmax, AUC0-∞, AUC0-t, 
MRT0-∞, and t1/2 of Tf-Rutin-Lip increased 1.99-fold, 2.77-fold, 2.58-fold, 
1.26-fold, and 1.19-fold compared to those of free Rutin solution, respectively. 
These findings suggest that Tf-Rutin-Lip is brain-targeted and may enhance the 
efficacy of Rutin in the treatment of brain disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252111404
PMCID: PMC11546852
PMID: 39518957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


7. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 23;25(21):11399. doi: 10.3390/ijms252111399.

Noradrenaline Protects Human Microglial Cells (HMC3) Against Apoptosis and DNA 
Damage Induced by LPS and Aβ(1-42) Aggregates In Vitro.

Barczuk J(1), Galita G(1), Siwecka N(1), Golberg M(2), Saramowicz K(1), Granek 
Z(1), Wiese W(1), Majsterek I(1), Rozpędek-Kamińska W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry and Biochemistry, Medical University of 
Lodz, 92-215 Lodz, Poland.
(2)Department of Histology and Embryology, Medical University of Lodz, 92-215 
Lodz, Poland.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, 
characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and 
neuroinflammation. This study investigates the protective effects of 
noradrenaline (NA) on human microglial cells exposed to lipopolysaccharides 
(LPS) and Aβ aggregates-major contributors to inflammation and cellular damage 
in AD. The reduced Aβ aggregation in the HMC3 human microglial cells co-treated 
with Aβ and NA was confirmed by thioflavin T (ThT) assay, fluorescent ThT 
staining, and immunocytochemistry (ICC). The significantly increased viability 
of HMC3 cells after 48 h of incubation with NA at 50 µM, 25 µM, and 10 µM, 
exposed to IC50 LPS and IC50 Aβ, was confirmed by XTT and LDH assays. Moreover, 
we found that NA treatment at 25 μM and 50 μM concentrations in HMC3 cells 
exposed to IC50 LPS or IC50 Aβ results in an increased proliferation of HMC3 
cells, their return to normal morphology, decreased levels of DNA damage, 
reduced caspase-3 activity, decreased expression of pro-apoptotic DDIT3 and BAX, 
and increased expression of anti-apoptotic BCL-2 genes and proteins, leading to 
enhanced cell survival, when compared to that of the HMC3 cells treated only 
with IC50 LPS or IC50 Aβ. Furthermore, we showed that NA induces the degradation 
of both extracellular and intracellular Aβ deposits and downregulates 
hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α), which is linked to impaired Aβ clearance 
and AD progression. These findings indicate that NA holds promise as a 
therapeutic target to address microglial dysfunction and potentially slow the 
progression of AD. Its neuroprotective effects, particularly in reducing 
inflammation and regulating microglial activity, warrant further investigation 
into its broader role in mitigating neuroinflammation and preserving microglial 
function in AD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252111399
PMCID: PMC11546654
PMID: 39518952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


8. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 22;25(21):11363. doi: 10.3390/ijms252111363.

Short Peptides Protect Fibroblast-Derived Induced Neurons from Age-Related 
Changes.

Kraskovskaya N(1), Linkova N(2), Sakhenberg E(1), Krieger D(1), Polyakova V(2), 
Medvedev D(3)(4), Krasichkov A(5), Khotin M(1), Ryzhak G(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cytology RAS, Tikhoretski Pr., 4, St. Petersburg 194064, Russia.
(2)St. Petersburg Research Institute of Phthisiopulmonology, Ligovskii Pr., 2-4, 
St. Petersburg 191036, Russia.
(3)St. Petersburg Institute of Bioregulation and Gerontology, 3 Dynamo Ave., St. 
Petersburg 197110, Russia.
(4)The Department of Social Rehabilitation and Occupational Therapy, St. 
Petersburg Medical and Social Institute, Kondratievsky St., 72A, St. Petersburg 
195271, Russia.
(5)Department of Radio Engineering Systems, Saint Petersburg Electrotechnical 
University 'LETI', 5F Prof. Popova St., St. Petersburg 197376, Russia.

Neurons become more vulnerable to stress factors with age, which leads to 
increased oxidative DNA damage, decreased activity of mitochondria and 
lysosomes, increased levels of p16, decreased LaminB1 proteins, and the 
depletion of the dendritic tree. These changes are exacerbated in vulnerable 
neuronal populations during the development of neurodegenerative diseases. 
Glu-Asp-Arg (EDR) and Lys-Glu-Asp (KED), and Ala-Glu-Asp-Gly (AEDG) peptides 
have previously demonstrated neuroprotective effects in various models of 
Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we investigated the influence of EDR, KED, 
and AEDG peptides on the aging of fibroblast-derived induced neurons. We used a 
new in vitro cellular model of human neuronal aging based on the 
transdifferentiation of aged dermal fibroblasts from elderly donors into induced 
cortical neurons. All peptides promote the arborization of the dendritic tree, 
increasing both the number of primary processes and the total length of 
dendrites. Tripeptides have no effect on the activity of mitochondria and 
lysosomes and the level of p16 protein in induced neurons. EDR peptide reduces 
oxidative DNA damage in induced neurons derived from elderly donor fibroblasts. 
Short peptides partially protect induced neurons from age-related changes and 
stimulate dendritogenesis in neurons. They can be recommended for use as 
neuroprotective agents.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252111363
PMCID: PMC11546785
PMID: 39518916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


9. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 22;25(21):11338. doi: 10.3390/ijms252111338.

Future Therapeutic Strategies for Alzheimer's Disease: Focus on Behavioral and 
Psychological Symptoms.

Kwon KJ(1)(2)(3), Kim HY(2)(3), Han SH(2)(3), Shin CY(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Konkuk University, Seoul 
05029, Republic of Korea.
(2)Center for Neuroscience Research, Institute of Biomedical Science and 
Technology, Konkuk University, 120 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul 05029, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Konkuk Hospital Medical Center, 120-1 Neungdong-ro, 
Gwangjin-Gu, Seoul 05030, Republic of Korea.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, degenerative brain disorder that 
impairs memory and thinking skills, leading to significant economic and 
humanistic burdens. It is associated with various neuropsychiatric symptoms 
(NPS) such as anxiety, agitation, depression, aggression, apathy, and psychosis. 
NPSs are common in patients with AD, affecting up to 97% of individuals 
diagnosed with AD. The severity of NPS is linked to disease progression and 
cognitive decline. NPS in Alzheimer's disease leads to increased morbidity, 
mortality, caregiver burden, earlier nursing home placement, and higher 
healthcare costs. Despite their significant impact, clinical research on NPS in 
AD is limited. In clinical settings, accurately distinguishing and diagnosing 
NPS related to AD remains a challenge. Additionally, conventional treatments for 
NPS in AD are often ineffective, highlighting the need for new therapies that 
target these specific symptoms. Understanding these comorbidities can aid in 
early diagnosis and better management of AD. In this review, we provide a 
summary of the various neurological and psychiatric symptoms (NPS) associated 
with AD and new candidates under development for the treatment of NPS based on 
their therapeutic targets and mechanisms. On top of the conventional NPS studied 
so far, this review adds recent advancements in the understanding of social 
functional impairment in AD. This review also provides information that can 
contribute to the advancement of studies and translational research in this 
field by emphasizing therapeutic targets and mechanisms of action focused on 
AD-related NPS rather than conventional mechanisms targeted in AD drug 
development. Above all, considering the relative lack of research in this new 
field despite the importance of clinical, medical, and translational research, 
it may increase interest in NPS in AD, its pathophysiological mechanisms, and 
potential therapeutic candidates such as molecules with antioxidant potential.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252111338
PMCID: PMC11547068
PMID: 39518892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


10. Diagnostics (Basel). 2024 Oct 23;14(21):2363. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics14212363.

A Feature-Fusion Technique-Based Alzheimer's Disease Classification Using 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging.

Sait ARW(1), Nagaraj R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Archives and Communication, Center of Documentation and 
Administrative Communication, King Faisal University, P.O. Box 400, Hofuf 31982, 
Al-Ahsa, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, S S Hospital, S S Institute of Medical Sciences & 
Research Centre, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Davangere 577005, 
India.

BACKGROUND: Early identification of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is essential for 
optimal treatment and management. Deep learning (DL) technologies, including 
convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and vision transformers (ViTs) can provide 
promising outcomes in AD diagnosis. However, these technologies lack model 
interpretability and demand substantial computational resources, causing 
challenges in the resource-constrained environment. Hybrid ViTs can outperform 
individual ViTs by visualizing key features with limited computational power. 
This synergy enhances feature extraction and promotes model interpretability.
OBJECTIVES: Thus, the authors present an innovative model for classifying AD 
using MRI images with limited computational resources.
METHODS: The authors improved the AD feature-extraction process by modifying the 
existing ViTs. A CatBoost-based classifier was used to classify the extracted 
features into multiple classes.
RESULTS: The proposed model was generalized using the OASIS dataset. The model 
obtained an exceptional classification accuracy of 98.8% with a minimal loss of 
0.12.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings highlight the potential of the proposed AD 
classification model in providing an interpretable and resource-efficient 
solution for healthcare centers. To improve model robustness and applicability, 
subsequent research can include genetic and clinical data.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics14212363
PMCID: PMC11545033
PMID: 39518331

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


11. Cancers (Basel). 2024 Nov 1;16(21):3701. doi: 10.3390/cancers16213701.

TRBP2, a Major Component of the RNAi Machinery, Is Subjected to Cell 
Cycle-Dependent Regulation in Human Cancer Cells of Diverse Tissue Origin.

Theotoki EI(1)(2), Kakoulidis P(2)(3), Velentzas AD(1), Nikolakopoulos KS(1), 
Angelis NV(4), Tsitsilonis OE(4), Anastasiadou E(2)(5), Stravopodis DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Cell Biology and Biophysics, Department of Biology, School of 
Science, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (NKUA), 157 01 Athens, 
Greece.
(2)Center of Basic Research, Biomedical Research Foundation of the Academy of 
Athens (BRFAA), 115 27 Athens, Greece.
(3)Department of Informatics and Telecommunications, School of Science, National 
and Kapodistrian University of Athens (NKUA), 157 01 Athens, Greece.
(4)Section of Animal and Human Physiology, Department of Biology, School of 
Science, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (NKUA), 157 01 Athens, 
Greece.
(5)Department of Health Science, Higher Colleges of Technology (HCT), Academic 
City Campus, Dubai 17155, United Arab Emirates.

BACKGROUND: Transactivation Response Element RNA-binding Protein (TRBP2) is a 
double-stranded RNA-binding protein widely known for its critical contribution 
to RNA interference (RNAi), a conserved mechanism of gene-expression regulation 
mediated through small non-coding RNA moieties (ncRNAs). Nevertheless, TRBP2 has 
also proved to be involved in other molecular pathways and biological processes, 
such as cell growth, organism development, spermatogenesis, and stress response. 
Mutations or aberrant expression of TRBP2 have been previously associated with 
diverse human pathologies, including Alzheimer's disease, cardiomyopathy, and 
cancer, with TRBP2 playing an essential role(s) in proliferation, invasion, and 
metastasis of tumor cells.
METHODS: Hence, the present study aims to investigate, via employment of 
advanced flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, cell transgenesis and 
bioinformatics technologies, new, still elusive, functions and properties of 
TRBP2, particularly regarding its cell cycle-specific control during cancer cell 
division.
RESULTS: We have identified a novel, mitosis-dependent regulation of TRBP2 
protein expression, as clearly evidenced by the lack of its 
immunofluorescence-facilitated detection during mitotic phases, in several human 
cancer cell lines of different tissue origin. Notably, the obtained 
TRBP2-downregulation patterns seem to derive from molecular mechanisms that act 
independently of oncogenic activities (e.g., malignancy grade), metastatic 
capacities (e.g., low versus high), and mutational signatures (e.g., p53-/- or 
p53ΔΥ126) of cancer cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, we herein propose that TRBP2 serves as a novel cell 
cycle-dependent regulator, likely exerting mitosis-suppression functions, and, 
thus, its mitosis-specific downregulation can hold strong promise to be 
exploited for the efficient and successful prognosis, diagnosis, and 
(radio-/chemo-)therapy of diverse human malignancies, in the clinic.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers16213701
PMCID: PMC11545598
PMID: 39518139

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest, 
and the funders had no role in the design of the study, in the collection, 
analysis, or interpretation of data, in the writing of the manuscript, or in the 
decision to publish the results.


12. Sensors (Basel). 2024 Oct 23;24(21):6798. doi: 10.3390/s24216798.

Changes in Motor Strategy and Neuromuscular Control During Balance Tasks in 
People with a Bimalleolar Ankle Fracture: A Preliminary and Exploratory Study.

Salas-Gómez D(1), Barbado D(2)(3), Sánchez-Juan P(4)(5), Pérez-Núñez MI(6), 
Laguna-Bercero E(6), Lantarón-Juarez S(1), Fernandez-Gorgojo M(7).

Author information:
(1)Escuelas Universitarias Gimbernat (EUG), Physiotherapy School Cantabria, 
University of Cantabria, 39300 Torrelavega, Spain.
(2)Sports Research Centre, Department of Sport Science, Miguel Hernández 
University of Elche, 03202 Elche, Spain.
(3)Alicante Institute for Health and Biomedical Research (ISABIAL), 03550 
Alicante, Spain.
(4)Alzheimer's Centre Reina Sofia-CIEN Foundation, 28031 Madrid, Spain.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Network Biomedical Research Center (CIBERNED), 
28029 Madrid, Spain.
(6)Traumatology Service and Orthopedic Surgery, University Hospital "Marqués de 
Valdecilla" (UHMV), 39008 Santander, Spain.
(7)Nursing and Physical Therapy Department, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Leon, 24401 Ponferrada, Spain.

Ankle fractures can lead to issues such as limited dorsiflexion, strength 
deficits, swelling, stiffness, balance disorders, and functional limitations, 
which complicate daily activities. This study aimed to describe neuromuscular 
adaptations at 6 and 12 months post-surgery during static and dynamic balance 
tasks, specifically using the Y-Balance Test (YBT). Additionally, the 
relationship between neuromuscular patterns, balance, and musculoskeletal 
deficits was evaluated. In 21 participants (14 at 6 months and 21 at 12 months) 
with bimalleolar fractures, hip strength, ankle dorsiflexion, ankle 
functionality, and static and dynamic balance were assessed using 
electromyography of five lower limb muscles (tibialis anterior, peroneus longus, 
lateral gastrocnemius, biceps femoris, and gluteus medius). A significant 
interaction effect (limb × proximal [hip]-distal [ankle] muscle) (F = 30.806, p 
< 0.001) was observed in the anterior direction of the Y-Balance Test (YBTA) at 
6 months post-surgery. During the YBTA and YBT posteromedial (YBTPM), it was 
found that a lower dorsiflexion range of movement was associated specifically at 
6 months with greater activation of the lateral gastrocnemius. However, these 
differences tended to diminish by 12 months. These findings suggest that 
neuromuscular patterns differ between operated and non-operated limbs during the 
YBTA at 6 months post-surgery. The Y-Balance Test, particularly its anterior 
direction, effectively highlighted these neuromuscular changes. This is a 
preliminary study; further research is needed to explore these findings in 
depth.

DOI: 10.3390/s24216798
PMCID: PMC11548516
PMID: 39517697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


13. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 8;14(1):27283. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-77853-1.

Protective effects of a lactobacilli mixture against Alzheimer's disease-like 
pathology triggered by Porphyromonas gingivalis.

Kazemi N(1), Khorasgani MR(2), Noorbakhshnia M(3), Razavi SM(4), Narimani T(5), 
Naghsh N(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology and Microbiology, Faculty of 
Biological Science and Technology, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology and Microbiology, Faculty of 
Biological Science and Technology, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran. 
m.rabbani@biol.ui.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Plant and Animal Biology, Faculty of Biological Science and 
Technology, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran. m.noorbakhshnia@sci.ui.ac.ir.
(4)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(5)Department of Bacteriology and Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(6)Department of Periodontology, Torabinejad Dental Research Center, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

Porphyromonas gingivalis (P. gingivalis) is one of the pathogens involved in 
gingival inflammation, which may trigger neuroinflammatory diseases such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aimed to investigate the protective 
(preventive and treatment) effects of a lactobacilli mixture combining 
Lactobacillus reuteri PTCC1655, Lactobacillus brevis CD0817, Lacticaseibacillus 
rhamnosus PTCC1637, and Lactobacillus plantarum PTCC1058 against P. 
gingivalis-induced gingival inflammation and AD-like pathology in rats. These 
probiotic strains exhibited cognitive enhancement effects, but this study 
proposed to assess their activity in a mixture. To propose a probable mechanism 
for P. gingivalis cognitive impairments, the TEs balance were analyzed in 
hippocampus and cortex tissues. Animals were divided into five groups: the 
control, lactobacilli, P. gingivalis, lactobacilli + P. gingivalis (prevention), 
and P. gingivalis + lactobacilli group (treatment) groups. The behavioral and 
histopathological changes were compared among them. Finally, The Trace elements 
(TEs) levels in the hippocampus and cortex tissues were analyzed. The palatal 
tissue sections of the P. gingivalis infected rats showed moderate inflammation 
with dense infiltration of inflammatory cells, a limited area of tissue edema, 
and vascular congestion. Additionally, passive avoidance learning and spatial 
memory were impaired. Histopathological tests revealed the presence of 
Aβ-positive cells in the P. gingivalis group. While the Aβ-positive cells 
decreased in the treatment group, their formation was inhibited in the 
preventive group. Administration of a mixture of lactobacilli (orally) 
effectively mitigated the gingival inflammation, Aβ production, and improved 
learning and memory functions. Moreover, Zn, Cu, and Mn levels in the 
hippocampus were dramatically elevated by P. gingivalis infection, whereas 
lactobacilli mixture mitigated these disruptive effects. The lactobacilli 
mixture significantly prevented the disruptive effects of P. gingivalis on 
gingival and brain tissues in rats. Therefore, new formulated combination of 
lactobacilli may be a good candidate for inhibiting the P. gingivalis infection 
and its subsequent cognitive effects. The current study aimed to evaluate the 
effects of a lactobacilli mixture to manage the disruptive effects of P. 
gingivalis infection on memory.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-77853-1
PMCID: PMC11549306
PMID: 39516514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors claim any conflict of 
interest.


14. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 8;14(1):27207. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-78308-3.

The interplay of age, gender and amyloid on brain and cognition in mid-life and 
older adults.

Borne L(#)(1), Thienel R(#)(2), Lupton MK(3), Guo C(4), Mosley P(3)(5), Behler 
A(1), Giorgio J(1)(6), Adam R(7), Ceslis A(8), Bourgeat P(5), Fazlollahi A(5), 
Maruff P(9), Rowe CC(9)(10), Masters CL(9), Fripp J(5), Robinson GA(8), 
Breakspear M(1)(11).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychological Sciences, College of Engineering, Science and the 
Environment, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, Australia.
(2)School of Medicine and Public Health, College of Health, Medicine and 
Wellbeing, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, Australia. 
renate.thienel@newcastle.edu.au.
(3)QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(4)ActiGraph LLC, Pensacola, FL, USA.
(5)CSIRO Health and Biosecurity, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(6)Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley, CA, 
94720, USA.
(7)UQ Centre for Clinical Research (UQCCR), University of Queensland, Brisbane, 
QLD, Australia.
(8)Queensland Brain Institute & School of Psychology, University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(9)Florey Institute, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(10)Department of Molecular Imaging & Therapy, Austin Health, Heidelberg, VIC, 
Australia.
(11)School of Medicine and Public Health, College of Health, Medicine and 
Wellbeing, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, Australia.
(#)Contributed equally

Deficits in memory are seen as a canonical sign of aging and a prodrome to 
dementia in older adults. However, our understanding of age-related cognition 
and brain morphology occurring throughout a broader spectrum of adulthood 
remains limited. We quantified the relationship between cognitive function and 
brain morphology (sulcal width, SW) using three cross-sectional observational 
datasets (PISA, AIBL, ADNI) from mid-life to older adulthood, assessing the 
influence of age, sex, amyloid (Aβ) and genetic risk for dementia. The data 
comprised cognitive, genetic and neuroimaging measures of a total of 1570 
non-clinical mid-life and older adults (mean age 72, range 49-90 years, 1330 
males) and 1365 age- and sex-matched adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) 
or Alzheimer's disease (AD). Among non-clinical adults, we found robust modes of 
co-variation between regional SW and multidomain cognitive function that 
differed between the mid-life and older age range. These cortical and cognitive 
profiles derived from healthy cohorts predicted out-of-sample AD and MCI. 
Furthermore, Aβ-deposition and educational attainment levels were associated 
with cognition but not SW. These findings underscoring the complex interplay 
between factors influencing cognition and brain structure from mid-life onwards, 
providing valuable insights for future research into neurodegeneration and the 
development of future screening algorithms.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-78308-3
PMCID: PMC11549469
PMID: 39516511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


15. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 8;14(1):27288. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-76061-1.

Alternative production of pro-death Bax∆2 protein via ribosomal frameshift in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Yao Q(1), Mañas A(2)(3), Beatty E(1), Dos Santos ACM(1), Zhou Y(1), Juárez O(1), 
Chen H(4), Xiang J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Illinois Institute of Technology, 3101 South Dearborn 
Street, Chicago, IL, 60616, USA.
(2)Translational Research in Pediatric Oncology, Hematopoietic Transplantation 
and Cell Therapy, IdiPAZ Research Center, University Hospital of La Paz, Madrid, 
Spain.
(3)IdiPAZ-CNIO Pediatric Oncohematology Clinical Research Unit, National Cancer 
Research Center (CNIO), Madrid, Spain.
(4)Mass Spectrometer Core, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL, 
60612, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Illinois Institute of Technology, 3101 South Dearborn 
Street, Chicago, IL, 60616, USA. xiang@iit.edu.

Pro-death Bax family member, Bax∆2, forms protein aggregates in Alzheimer's 
disease neurons and causes stress granule-mediated neuronal death. Production of 
Bax∆2 originated from two events: alternative splicing of Bax exon 2 and a 
microsatellite mutation (a deletion from poly guanines, G8 to G7). Each event 
alone leads to a reading frameshift and premature termination. While Bax exon 2 
alternative splicing is common in Alzheimer's brains, the G7 mutation is not, 
which is inconsistent with the high Bax∆2 protein levels detected in clinical 
samples. Here, we report an alternative mechanism to produce Bax∆2 protein in 
the absence of the G7 mutation. Using dual-tag systems, we showed that a 
ribosomal frameshift (RFS) can compensate the lack of G7 mutation in translating 
Bax∆2 protein. Intriguingly, the microsatellite poly G repeat is neither 
essential nor the site for the RFS. However, disruption of the poly G sequence 
impaired the RFS, potentially due to alteration of the local RNA structure. 
Using immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, we pinpointed the RFS site at 15 
base pairs upstream of the microsatellite. These results uncover an alternative 
mechanism for generating functional Bax∆2-subfamily isoforms, highlighting the 
production plasticity of Bax family isoforms and unveiling potential new 
therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-76061-1
PMCID: PMC11549088
PMID: 39516502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


16. Nat Commun. 2024 Nov 8;15(1):9673. doi: 10.1038/s41467-024-53891-1.

VTA dopamine neurons are hyperexcitable in 3xTg-AD mice due to casein kinase 
2-dependent SK channel dysfunction.

Blankenship HE(1)(2), Carter KA(1), Pham KD(3), Cassidy NT(1)(3), Markiewicz 
AN(1), Thellmann MI(1), Sharpe AL(4), Freeman WM(3)(5), Beckstead MJ(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Aging and Metabolism Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, 
Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(2)Department of Physiology, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(3)Genes and Human Disease Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research 
Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences 
Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(5)Oklahoma City Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(6)Aging and Metabolism Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, 
Oklahoma City, OK, USA. mike-beckstead@omrf.org.
(7)Department of Physiology, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma City, OK, USA. mike-beckstead@omrf.org.
(8)Oklahoma City Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA. 
mike-beckstead@omrf.org.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2023 Nov 17:2023.11.16.567486. doi: 10.1101/2023.11.16.567486.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients exhibit neuropsychiatric symptoms that extend 
beyond classical cognitive deficits, suggesting involvement of subcortical 
areas. Here, we investigated the role of midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons in AD 
using the amyloid + tau-driven 3xTg-AD mouse model. We found deficits in 
reward-based operant learning in AD mice, suggesting possible VTA DA neuron 
dysregulation. Physiological assessment revealed hyperexcitability and disrupted 
firing in DA neurons caused by reduced activity of small-conductance 
calcium-activated potassium (SK) channels. RNA sequencing from contents of 
single patch-clamped DA neurons (Patch-seq) identified up-regulation of the SK 
channel modulator casein kinase 2 (CK2), which we corroborated by 
immunohistochemical protein analysis. Pharmacological inhibition of CK2 restored 
SK channel activity and normal firing patterns in 3xTg-AD mice. These findings 
identify a mechanism of ion channel dysregulation in VTA DA neurons that could 
contribute to behavioral abnormalities in AD, paving the way for novel treatment 
strategies.

© 2024. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-024-53891-1
PMCID: PMC11549218
PMID: 39516200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


17. Neurotherapeutics. 2025 Apr;22(3):e00482. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00482. 
Epub 2024 Nov 8.

From defense to disease: IFITM3 in immunity and Alzheimer's disease.

Kehs Z(1), Cross AC(2), Li YM(3).

Author information:
(1)Chemical Biology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA; Programs of Pharmacology, Weill Graduate School of Medical Sciences of 
Cornell University, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Chemical Biology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA; Programs of Neuroscience, Weill Graduate School of Medical Sciences of 
Cornell University, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Chemical Biology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA; Programs of Pharmacology, Weill Graduate School of Medical Sciences of 
Cornell University, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address: liy2@mskcc.org.

Innate immunity protein interferon induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) is a 
transmembrane protein that has a wide array of functions, including in viral 
infections, Alzheimer's Disease (AD), and cancer. As an interferon stimulated 
gene (ISG), IFITM3's expression is upregulated by type-I, II, and III 
interferons. Moreover, the antiviral activity of IFITM3 is modulated by 
post-translational modifications. IFITM3 functions in innate immunity to disrupt 
viral fusion and entry to the plasma membrane as well as prevent viral escape 
from endosomes. As a γ-secretase modulatory protein, IFITM3 distinctly modulates 
the processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) to generate amyloid beta 
peptides (Aβ) and Notch1 cleavages. Increased IFITM3 expression, which can 
result from aging, cytokine activation, inflammation, and infection, can lead to 
an upregulation of γ-secretase for Aβ production that causes a risk of AD. 
Therefore, the prevention of IFITM3 upregulation has potential in the 
development of novel therapies for the treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00482
PMCID: PMC12047391
PMID: 39516072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Yue-Ming Li reports a relationship 
with Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center that includes: funding grants. If 
there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.


18. BMJ. 2024 Nov 8;387:q2477. doi: 10.1136/bmj.q2477.

Alzheimer's disease: What treatments could be rolled out in the next few years?

Mahase E(1).

Author information:
(1)The BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.q2477
PMID: 39516027


19. Pract Neurol. 2025 Jan 16;25(1):40-44. doi: 10.1136/pn-2024-004259.

Cognitive rehabilitation in posterior cortical atrophy.

Suárez-González A(1), Bier N(2)(3), Sauvageau H(4), Pelak VS(5)(6), Ahmed S(7).

Author information:
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
University College London, London, UK aida.gonzalez@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)School of Rehabilitation, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(3)Centre de recherche de l'Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal, 
CIUSSS du Centre-Sud-de-L'Île-de-Montréal, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(4)CISSS de la Montérégie-Centr, Institut Nazareth et Louis-Braille, Longueuil, 
Quebec, Canada.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, 
Colorado, USA.
(6)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Colorado School of Medicine, 
Aurora, Colorado, USA.
(7)School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences, University of Reading, 
Reading, UK.

Posterior cortical atrophy is an uncommon type of dementia often caused by 
Alzheimer's disease and characterised by progressive loss of visuospatial and 
perceptual abilities. Although there is no curative treatment, patients may 
benefit from a range of symptom-based techniques and strategies to address 
visuospatial deficits and apraxia, and to reduce disability. Specific techniques 
based on visual and tactile cues, adapted and assistive equipment, environmental 
modifications and skill training may help people with posterior cortical atrophy 
continue to carry on activities that are important to them. We share vignettes 
from patients treated in our clinics to illustrate the practical delivery and 
potential impact of these therapies.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/pn-2024-004259
PMID: 39515839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: VSP: research is supported 
by National Institutes of Health (NIH), the John and Joanne Hare Fund for 
Accelerating PCA Research, University of Colorado Alzheimer's and Cognition 
Center, the North American Neuro-ophthalmology Society, and Institutional 
support from the Lewy Body Dementia Association; also received support from the 
American Academy of Neurology for editorial work, royalties from Up-to-Date, the 
Alzheimer's Association for the Longitudinal Early-Onset Alzheimer's Disease 
Study Patient Advocacy Committee, and Biogen and Eisai.


20. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2024 Nov 20;16(46):63186-63194. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.4c12560. Epub 2024 Nov 8.

Membrane-Targeted Quantum Dot-Based BACE1 Activity Sensors for In Vitro and In 
Cellulo Assays.

Tosat-Bitrián C(1)(2), Bueso de Barrio JA(3), Stewart MH(4), Susumu K(4), 
Medintz IL(5), Díaz SA(5), Palomo V(2)(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Biológicas "Margarita Salas"-CSIC, Ramiro de Maeztu 
9, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas, 
(CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Av. Monforte de Lemos, 3-5, 28029 
Madrid, Spain.
(3)Instituto Madrileño de Estudios Avanzados en Nanociencia (IMDEA Nanociencia), 
C/Faraday 9, 28049 Madrid, Spain.
(4)Optical Sciences Division, Code 5600, U.S. Naval Research Laboratory, 
Washington, DC 20375, United States.
(5)Center for Bio/Molecular Science and Engineering, Code 6900, U.S. Naval 
Research Laboratory, Washington, DC 20375, United States.
(6)Unidad Asociada al Centro Nacional de Biotecnología (CSIC), Darwin 3, 28049 
Madrid, Spain.

The need for the development of specific and robust methodologies to elucidate 
the intricate pathological mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases and discover 
effective treatments for prevention and remediation is evident. Alzheimer's 
disease, in particular, has become more prevalent as the global population has 
aged. β-Secretase, the β-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme (BACE1), 
is the protease that produces the β-amyloid peptide, which is considered one of 
the driving factors of Alzheimer's disease and an important target for treatment 
development. However, an understanding of its activity, modulation, and 
regulation is far from complete. This is in large part due to the complex nature 
of following its activity. Beyond the common requirements for all biosensors 
(ease of preparation and use), BACE1 probes also demand both stability at acidic 
pH and membrane localization. To overcome these hurdles, we exploit the modular 
self-assembly provided by fluorescent quantum dot (QD) sensors. As compared to 
other fluorophores, QDs provide enhanced fluorescence brightness and 
photostability, and their large surface area enables functionalization with 
peptide substrates together with targeting elements that localize the sensor to 
the areas of maximal BACE1 activity, all achieved through His-tag self-assembly. 
In vitro, the sensor demonstrated stability under acidic conditions, and using 
high-throughput plate reader assays, we determined BACE1 activity in-line with 
literature values and enabled the obtainment of the inhibitor constant of 
verubecestat, a small molecule inhibitor. The sensor was also transitioned to 
cellular experiments, where it demonstrated sensitivity to BACE1 activity and 
its modulation upon inhibitor treatment in a neuroblastoma cell line.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.4c12560
PMCID: PMC11583121
PMID: 39515812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


21. Brain Res. 2025 Jan 15;1847:149312. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149312. Epub
 2024 Nov 6.

Acorus tatarinowii alleviates D-galactose-induced Alzheimer's-like disease 
cognitive impairment and Aβ-induced pericytes dysfunction in mice.

Zhang T(1), Yang J(1), Xu H(1), Cao Y(1), Du X(1), Guo L(1), Liang B(1), Su 
L(1), Chai L(1), Yuan Q(2), Hu L(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Component-Based Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China; Key Laboratory of 
Pharmacology of Traditional Chinese Medical Formulae, Ministry of Education, 
Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China; 
Tianjin Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Pharmacology, Tianjin 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Component-Based Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China; Key Laboratory of 
Pharmacology of Traditional Chinese Medical Formulae, Ministry of Education, 
Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China; 
Tianjin Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Pharmacology, Tianjin 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China. Electronic 
address: yuanxqing@tjutcm.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Component-Based Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China; Key Laboratory of 
Pharmacology of Traditional Chinese Medical Formulae, Ministry of Education, 
Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China; 
Tianjin Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Pharmacology, Tianjin 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China. Electronic 
address: hulimin@tjutcm.edu.cn.

Pericytes regulate cerebral blood flow (CBF) and excess amyloid in the brain. 
Pericyte dysfunction may contribute to the pathology of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Acorus tatarinowii (AT), a Chinese medicine commonly used to treat AD, 
protects the central nervous system. However, whether AT can regulate pericyte 
function and ameliorate cognitive dysfunction remains unclear. We employed a 
novel target recognition assay, quantitative measurement of CBF, hematoxylin and 
eosin staining, immunofluorescence staining, and Western blot to investigate the 
role of AT in improving cognitive function in patients with AD. Additionally, we 
investigated the therapeutic potential of β-Asarone, the primary active compound 
in AT, for treating AD by modulating pericyte function using transmission 
electron microscopy, silver staining, electrical impedance, and other 
methodologies. The results revealed that administration of AT effectively 
alleviated the cognitive impairments induced by D-galactose in mice, as 
evidenced by enhanced CBF, improved histological characteristics of damaged 
brain tissue cells, increased expression of platelet-derived growth factor-β 
(PDGF-β), decreased Aβ accumulation via enhanced lipoprotein receptor-related 
protein 1 (LRP1), and reduced beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1). β-Asarone 
treatment mitigated ROS release and BACE1 expression while elevating the cell 
index in Aβ1-40 injured mouse brain vascular pericytes (MBVP). These findings 
suggest that AT has the potential to enhance CBF and mitigate pericellular 
dysfunction, thereby ameliorating Aβ deposition in the brain and improving 
cognitive impairment in patients with AD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149312
PMID: 39515743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


22. Ageing Res Rev. 2024 Dec;102:102575. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102575. Epub
2024  Nov 7.

Iron homeostasis and neurodegeneration in the ageing brain: Insight into 
ferroptosis pathways.

Alrouji M(1), Anwar S(2), Venkatesan K(3), Shahwan M(4), Hassan MI(5), Islam 
A(6), Shamsi A(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratories, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
Shaqra University, Shaqra 11961, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
malrouji@su.edu.sa.
(2)Center for Global Health Research, Saveetha medical college, Saveetha 
institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Chennai, India. Electronic address: 
email2saleha@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, King Khalid 
University, Abha 62529, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: kumarve@kku.edu.sa.
(4)Centre of Medical and Bio-allied Health Sciences Research, Ajman University, 
United Arab Emirates. Electronic address: m.shahwan@ajman.ac.ae.
(5)Center for Interdsicplinary Research in Basic Sciences, Jamia Millia 
Islamia, New Delhi, India. Electronic address: mihassan@jmi.ac.in.
(6)Center for Interdsicplinary Research in Basic Sciences, Jamia Millia 
Islamia, New Delhi, India. Electronic address: aislam@jmi.ac.in.
(7)Centre of Medical and Bio-allied Health Sciences Research, Ajman University, 
United Arab Emirates. Electronic address: anas.shamsi18@gmail.com.

Ageing is a major risk factor for various chronic diseases and offers a 
potential target for developing novel and broadly effective preventatives or 
therapeutics for age-related conditions, including those affecting the brain. 
Mechanisms contributing to ageing have been summarized as the hallmarks of 
ageing, with iron imbalance being one of the major factors. Ferroptosis, an 
iron-mediated lipid peroxidation-induced programmed cell death, has recently 
been implicated in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Addressing ferroptosis 
offers both opportunities and challenges for treating neurodegenerative 
diseases, though the specific mechanisms remain unclear. This research explores 
the key processes behind how ferroptosis contributes to brain ageing, with a 
focus on the complex signaling networks that are involved. The current article 
aims to uncover that how ferroptosis, a specific type of cell death, may drive 
age-related changes in the brain. Additionally, the article also unveils its 
role in neurodegenerative diseases, discussing how understanding these 
mechanisms could open up new therapeutic avenues.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102575
PMID: 39515619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


23. Neurochem Int. 2024 Dec;181:105897. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2024.105897. Epub
2024  Nov 6.

Boron: An intriguing factor in retarding Alzheimer's progression.

Das A(1), Rajput V(1), Chowdhury D(1), Choudhary R(2), Bodakhe SH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Guru Ghasidas Vishwavidyalaya (A Central University), 
Bilaspur, India.
(2)Shri Shankracharya, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Bhilai, Chhattisgarh, 
India.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Guru Ghasidas Vishwavidyalaya (A Central University), 
Bilaspur, India. Electronic address: drbodakhe@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that is the fifth most 
common cause of mortality worldwide and the second most common cause of death in 
developed countries. The etiology of AD remains poorly understood; however, it 
is correlated with the accumulation of proteins in the brain, ultimately leading 
to cellular damage. Multiple factors, including genetic and environmental 
factors such as chemicals or food, have been linked to protein aggregation and 
cell death in AD. Boron is a vital micronutrient that is necessary for plant 
growth and is abundantly present in various fruits and nuts. Prior research has 
emphasized the importance of boron as a neuroprotective agent and necessary 
component for the preservation of brain health and function. However, the 
precise function of boron in the brain remains poorly understood. This review 
elucidates the molecular role of boron in the brain by examining existing 
information about its impact on neurodegenerative diseases and may provide a 
deeper understanding of the etiology of AD and, ultimately, lead to the 
development of novel approaches for its treatment.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2024.105897
PMID: 39515586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. The author is an Editorial Board Member/Editor-in-Chief/Associate 
Editor/Guest Editor for [Journal name] and was not involved in the editorial 
review or the decision to publish this article.


24. Brain Stimul. 2024 Nov-Dec;17(6):1256-1264. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2024.11.003.
Epub  2024 Nov 7.

Different stimulation targets of rTMS modulate specific triple-network and 
hippocampal-cortex functional connectivity.

Wang L(1), Hu W(1), Wang H(1), Song Z(1), Lin H(2), Jiang J(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Shanghai 
University, Shanghai, 200444, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100053, China. Electronic address: linhua@ccmu.edu.cn.
(3)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Shanghai 
University, Shanghai, 200444, China. Electronic address: jiangjiehui@shu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is widely 
applied to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD). Various treatment targets are 
currently being explored in clinical research. However, target diversity can 
result in considerable heterogeneity.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate whether different rTMS targets can 
enhance cognitive domains by modulating functional connectivity (FC) of the 
hippocampus (HIP) and triple network, which comprises the salience network (SN), 
central executive network (CEN), and default mode network (DMN).
METHODS: We enrolled 63 patients with AD, of whom 48 and 15 underwent rTMS 
targeting the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) and the bilateral 
angular gyrus (ANG), respectively. We examined the network-level FC differences 
within the triple-network before and after treatment. Additionally, we utilized 
HIP as a seed for voxel-level analysis. We compared the similarities and 
differences in the effects of dlPFC and ANG rTMS.
RESULTS: rTMS targeting the dlPFC primarily influenced the FC of the CEN, 
whereas rTMS targeting the ANG primarily influenced the SN and DMN. Moreover, 
the right temporal lobe within the DMN exhibited reduced FC with the left HIP 
following both therapies. The results of least absolute shrinkage and selection 
operator (LASSO) analysis indicated that hippocampal-cortex FC played a dominant 
role in the therapeutic effect. The observed FC changes significantly correlated 
with improvements in multiple cognitive scales.
CONCLUSION: rTMS targeting different regions affected the FC of specific 
networks. Both stimulation targets modulate the FC of hippocampal-cortex to 
influence therapeutic outcomes. Classification of patients based on damaged 
networks can further inform subsequent treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2024.11.003
PMID: 39515419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing interest.


25. Neuron. 2024 Dec 4;112(23):3823-3850. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2024.10.013. Epub
 2024 Nov 7.

Redox regulation, protein S-nitrosylation, and synapse loss in Alzheimer's and 
related dementias.

Oh CK(1), Nakamura T(1), Zhang X(1), Lipton SA(2).

Author information:
(1)Neurodegeneration New Medicines Center and Department of Molecular Medicine, 
The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.
(2)Neurodegeneration New Medicines Center and Department of Molecular Medicine, 
The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA; Department of 
Neurosciences, School of Medicine, University of California at San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA 92093, USA. Electronic address: slipton@scripps.edu.

Redox-mediated posttranslational modification, as exemplified by protein 
S-nitrosylation, modulates protein activity and function in both health and 
disease. Here, we review recent findings that show how normal aging, 
infection/inflammation, trauma, environmental toxins, and diseases associated 
with protein aggregation can each trigger excessive nitrosative stress, 
resulting in aberrant protein S-nitrosylation and hence dysfunctional protein 
networks. These redox reactions contribute to the etiology of multiple 
neurodegenerative disorders as well as systemic diseases. In the CNS, aberrant 
S-nitrosylation reactions of single proteins or, in many cases, interconnected 
networks of proteins lead to dysfunctional pathways affecting endoplasmic 
reticulum (ER) stress, inflammatory signaling, autophagy/mitophagy, the 
ubiquitin-proteasome system, transcriptional and enzymatic machinery, and 
mitochondrial metabolism. Aberrant protein S-nitrosylation and 
transnitrosylation (transfer of nitric oxide [NO]-related species from one 
protein to another) trigger protein aggregation, neuronal bioenergetic 
compromise, and microglial phagocytosis, all of which contribute to the synapse 
loss that underlies cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease and related 
dementias.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2024.10.013
PMCID: PMC11624102
PMID: 39515322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests S.A.L. discloses that 
he is an inventor on worldwide patents for the use of memantine and 
NitroSynapsin for neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental disorders. Per 
Harvard University guidelines, he participates in a royalty-sharing agreement 
with his former institution, Boston Children’s Hospital/Harvard Medical School, 
which licensed the FDA-approved drug memantine (Namenda) to Forest Laboratories, 
Inc./Actavis/Allergan/AbbVie. S.A.L. is also a scientific founder of Adamas 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (now owned by Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), which 
developed or comarkets FDA-approved forms of memantine- or amantadine-containing 
drugs (NamendaXR, Namzaric, and GoCovri), and of EuMentis Therapeutics, Inc., 
which has licensed NitroSynapsin and related aminoadamantane nitrates from 
S.A.L. T.N. serves as a consultant to Dojindo Molecular Technologies, and S.A.L. 
serves on the Scientific Advisory Board of Point 6 Bio, Ltd.


26. Phytomedicine. 2024 Dec;135:156209. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156209. Epub
2024  Oct 31.

Avicularin inhibits ferroptosis and improves cognitive impairments in 
Alzheimer's disease by modulating the NOX4/Nrf2 axis.

Li Z(1), Lu Y(2), Zhen Y(3), Jin W(2), Ma X(4), Yuan Z(2), Liu B(5), Zhou XL(6), 
Zhang L(7).

Author information:
(1)Sichuan Engineering Research Center for Biomimetic Synthesis of Natural 
Drugs, School of Life Science and Engineering, Southwest Jiaotong University, 
Chengdu 610031, China; Key Laboratory of Advanced Technologies of Material, 
Minister of Education, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Southwest 
Jiaotong University, Chengdu 610031, China.
(2)Sichuan Engineering Research Center for Biomimetic Synthesis of Natural 
Drugs, School of Life Science and Engineering, Southwest Jiaotong University, 
Chengdu 610031, China.
(3)Sichuan Engineering Research Center for Biomimetic Synthesis of Natural 
Drugs, School of Life Science and Engineering, Southwest Jiaotong University, 
Chengdu 610031, China; Department of Biotherapy, Cancer Center and State Key 
Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 
610041, China.
(4)Department of Biotherapy, Cancer Center and State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.
(5)Department of Biotherapy, Cancer Center and State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China; 
State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, Chengdu 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, China. Electronic 
address: liubo2400@163.com.
(6)Sichuan Engineering Research Center for Biomimetic Synthesis of Natural 
Drugs, School of Life Science and Engineering, Southwest Jiaotong University, 
Chengdu 610031, China. Electronic address: zhouxl@swjtu.edu.cn.
(7)Sichuan Engineering Research Center for Biomimetic Synthesis of Natural 
Drugs, School of Life Science and Engineering, Southwest Jiaotong University, 
Chengdu 610031, China. Electronic address: zhanglanx_9@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a widespread neurodegenerative disorder 
for which effective therapies remain elusive, primarily due to the complexity of 
its underlying pathophysiology. In recent years, natural products have gained 
attention for their therapeutic potential in AD, owing to their multi-targeted 
actions and low toxicity profiles. Avicularin (Avi), a flavonoid derived from 
the peels of Zanthoxylum bungeanum Maxim., has shown promise as an anti-AD 
agent. However, the specific mechanisms by which Avi mitigates oxidative stress 
and inhibits ferroptosis in AD models remain insufficiently understood. Further 
investigation is required to elucidate its therapeutic potential in these 
pathways.
PURPOSE: Therefore, this study aims to elucidate the neuroprotective effects of 
Avi in AD by investigating its impact on the NOX4/Nrf2 signaling pathway, as 
well as its role in modulating oxidative stress and ferroptosis.
METHODS: In this study, an in vitro H2O2-induced oxidative stress model in 
SH-SY5Y cells was utilized to evaluate the pharmacological efficacy and 
underlying mechanisms of Avi. Molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assay 
and bio-layer interferometry assays were conducted to identify potential 
molecular targets of Avi. Additionally, in vivo models, including scopolamine 
(SCOP)-induced and APP/PS1 transgenic mice, were employed to assess the 
cognitive effects of Avi and further explore its associated molecular 
mechanisms.
RESULTS: Our study demonstrates that Avi effectively attenuates H2O2-induced 
toxicity in SH-SY5Y cells by reducing apoptosis and enhancing cellular 
antioxidant defenses. This neuroprotective effect is mediated through the 
inhibition of NOX4 and the promotion of Nrf2 nuclear translocation. Furthermore, 
Avi improves cognitive function and mitigates ferroptosis in both SCOP-induced 
and APP/PS1 transgenic mouse models of AD.
CONCLUSION: Avi emerges as an effective neuroprotective agent against AD, 
offering a promising therapeutic approach by targeting the NOX4/Nrf2 signaling 
axis to alleviate oxidative stress and ferroptosis.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156209
PMID: 39515096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


27. J Clin Psychiatry. 2024 Nov 8;85(4):plunaro2417ah. doi: 
10.4088/JCP.plunaro2417ah.

Dysregulation of Noradrenergic Activity: Its Role in Conceptualizing and 
Treating Major Depressive Disorder, Schizophrenia, Agitation in Alzheimer's 
Disease, and Posttraumatic Stress Disorder.

Jain R(1), Chepke C(2)(3)(4), Davis LL(5)(6)(7), McIntyre RS(8)(9)(10), Raskind 
MA(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Texas Tech University School of Medicine-Permian 
Basin, Midland, Texas.
(2)Excel Psychiatric Associates, Huntersville, North Carolina.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Atrium Health.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of North Carolina School of Medicine.
(5)Tuscaloosa VA Medical Center, Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
(6)Birmingham VA Health Care System, Birmingham, Alabama.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, University of Alabama at Birmingham Heersink School 
of Medicine, Birmingham.
(8)Mood Disorder Psychopharmacology Unit, University Health Network, Department 
of Psychiatry, University of Toronto.
(9)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto.
(10)Departments of Psychiatry and Pharmacology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(11)Mental Illness Research, Education, and Clinical Center (MIRECC), VA Puget 
Sound Health Care System (VA Puget Sound), Seattle, Washington.
(12)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington, 
Seattle.

When discussing neurotransmitters whose signaling plays an important role in 
psychiatric illnesses, serotonin and dopamine may be the first that come to 
mind. Although serotonin and dopamine have significant roles, the impact of 
norepinephrine signaling is often overlooked. A growing body of evidence 
suggests that hyperactivity of norepinephrine signaling is an underlying issue 
in psychiatric disorders; conversely, there is evidence to suggest that deficits 
in the noradrenergic system are just as significant. Hence, alterations in 
noradrenergic activity are better characterized as dysregulation rather than a 
reductive, outdated formulation of "too much" or "too little" activity. 
Therefore, symptoms such as agitation, irritability, hyperarousal, and insomnia 
could be treated by targeting the underlying pathophysiology related to 
noradrenergic dysregulation with targeted treatments. In a recent consensus 
panel meeting, 5 experts reviewed the available evidence of altered 
noradrenergic activity and its potential role in some of the most common 
psychiatric disorders. This Academic Highlights article summarizes their 
discussion and presents the panel's conclusions.

© Copyright 2024 Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc.

DOI: 10.4088/JCP.plunaro2417ah
PMID: 39514646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Neurocase. 2024 Aug;30(4):142-145. doi: 10.1080/13554794.2024.2426267. Epub
2024  Nov 8.

Increased memory confidence and delusions in Alzheimer's disease: a preliminary 
study.

McLachlan E(1), Liu K(1), Huzzey L(2), Burgess N(3)(4), Reeves S(1), Howard 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
(2)Enfield Memory Service, Barnet, Enfield and Haringey NHS Mental Health Trust, 
London, UK.
(3)UCL Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience and UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(4)Wellcome Centre for Human Neuroimaging, University College London, London, 
UK.

There is uncertainty about whether delusion formation in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) can be explained by false memories. "Metamemory," the ability to 
self-evaluate memory and identify memory errors, is impaired in people with 
delusions in schizophrenia. Our objective was to investigate whether false 
memory and metamemory were associated with delusions in AD. Participants with 
mild AD, with and without delusions, completed a computerized word recognition 
task and a metamemory measure. Group differences were compared using 
independent-samples t-tests or Mann Whitney tests. Significant findings were 
explored through binary logistic regression modeling. Participants with 
delusions (n = 10) gave more high confidence responses, significantly so for 
correct responses; percentage of high confidence correct responses for those 
with delusions (mean (SD)) was 69.7% (31.0%) and for those without (n = 14) was 
43.5% (29.9%); t22 = -2.09, p = .049. This remained significant when sex was 
included in regression modeling; for each 1.0% increase in high confidence 
correct responses, participants were 5.4% more likely to have delusions (Exp(β) 
1.054, 95% CI 1.007-1.105, p = .025). Findings provide tentative support for a 
link between metamemory and delusions in AD. This should be explored in a larger 
sample as it has potential implications for treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/13554794.2024.2426267
PMCID: PMC11614042
PMID: 39514372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


29. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2024 Dec 11;80(1):glae264. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glae264.

Does Sleep Moderate the Effects of Exercise Training or Complex Mental and 
Social Activities on Cognitive Function in Adults With Chronic Stroke? Secondary 
Analysis of a Randomized Trial.

Falck RS(1), Stein RG(1), Davis JC(2), Eng JJ(3), Middleton LE(4), Hall PA(5), 
Liu-Ambrose T(1).

Author information:
(1)Aging, Mobility and Cognitive Health Laboratory, Faculty of Medicine, 
Department of Physical Therapy, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(2)Applied Health Economics Laboratory, Faculty of Management, University of 
British Columbia - Okanagan Campus, Kelowna, British Columbia, Canada.
(3)Neurorehabilitation Research Program, GFS Rehabilitation Centre, Faculty of 
Medicine, Department of Physical Therapy, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Department of Kinesiology and Health Sciences, University of Waterloo, 
Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.
(5)School of Public Health Sciences, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Exercise (EX) or cognitive and social enrichment (ENRICH) are 2 
strategies for promoting cognition poststroke. Whether sleep moderates the 
effects of EX or ENRICH on cognition in adults with chronic stroke is unknown.
METHODS: A 3-arm parallel randomized clinical trial among community-dwelling 
adults aged 55+ years with chronic stroke (ie, ≥12 months since stroke). 
Participants were randomized to 2× per week EX, ENRICH, or balance and tone 
control (BAT). At baseline, device-measured sleep duration and efficiency were 
measured using wrist-worn actigraphy; self-reported quality was measured by 
Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). Participants were categorized at baseline 
as having good or poor device-measured duration, device-measured efficiency, or 
self-reported quality based on PSQI. The primary cognitive outcome was 
Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale Plus (ADAS-Cog-Plus) measured at baseline, 
6 months (end of intervention), and 12 months (6-month follow-up). We examined 
if baseline sleep categorizations (ie, good vs poor) moderated the effects of EX 
or ENRICH on ADAS-Cog-Plus.
RESULTS: We enrolled 120 participants in the trial (EX = 34; ENRICH = 34; 
BAT = 52). Sleep quality (ie, device-measured sleep efficiency or self-reported 
sleep quality) categorization moderated effects of EX (but not ENRICH) on 
ADAS-Cog-Plus. Compared with BAT participants with poor sleep quality, EX 
participants with poor sleep quality had better ADAS-Cog-Plus performance at 6 
months (estimated mean difference for those with poor device-measured sleep 
efficiency: -0.48; 95% CI [-0.85, -0.10]; p = .010); estimated mean difference 
for those with poor self-reported sleep quality: -0.38; 95% CI [-0.70, -0.07]; 
p = .014). There was no effect of EX on ADAS-Cog-Plus for participants with good 
sleep quality. Device-measured sleep duration did not moderate intervention 
effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Exercise is particularly beneficial in improving cognitive function 
in adults with chronic stroke and poor sleep quality.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glae264
PMCID: PMC11632229
PMID: 39514119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


30. Cells. 2024 Oct 30;13(21):1793. doi: 10.3390/cells13211793.

Thyroid Hormone Supplementation Restores Cognitive Deficit, Insulin Signaling, 
and Neuroinflammation in the Hippocampus of a Sporadic Alzheimer's-like Disease 
Rat Model.

Sepúlveda P(1)(2), Ferreira AFF(2), Sandoval C(3)(4), Bergoc G(2), Moreno 
ACR(2), Nunes MT(2), Torrão ADS(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ciencias Preclínicas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de La 
Frontera, Temuco 4811230, Chile.
(2)Departamento de Fisiologia e Biofísica, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo 05508-000, Brazil.
(3)Escuela de Tecnología Médica, Facultad de Salud, Universidad Santo Tomás, Los 
Carreras 753, Osorno 5310431, Chile.
(4)Departamento de Medicina Interna, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de La 
Frontera, Temuco 4811230, Chile.

Thyroid hormones play a crucial role in the development of the central nervous 
system and are considered pivotal to cognitive functions in the adult brain. 
Recently, thyroid dysfunction has been associated with Alzheimer's disease. The 
aim of this study was to assess the neuroprotective effects of triiodothyronine 
(T3) on insulin signaling, neuroinflammation, apoptosis, and cognitive function 
in a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced sporadic Alzheimer's disease-like model. Male 
Wistar rats underwent stereotaxic surgery for intracerebroventricular injections 
of streptozotocin (STZ; 2 mg/kg) or vehicle in the lateral ventricles to induce 
an AD-like model. The animals received a daily dose of 1.5 μg of T3/100 g body 
weight or the same volume of vehicle for 30 days and were subdivided into four 
experimental groups: (1) animals receiving citrate treated with saline (Control 
= CTL); (2) animals receiving citrate treated with T3 (T3); (3) animals 
receiving STZ treated with saline (STZ); and (4) animals receiving STZ treated 
with T3 (STZ + T3). The novel object recognition test was used to measure 
cognitive function. Serum analysis, real-time RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, and 
immunoblotting analyses were also carried out. Our results demonstrated that T3 
treatment reversed cognitive impairment and increased Akt and GSK3 
phosphorylation in the treated group, while also reducing microglial activation 
(Iba-1) and GFAP expression (reactive astrocytes), along with TNF-α, IL-6, and 
IL-1β levels in the hippocampus. Additionally, T3 treatment increased levels of 
the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 and reduced the expression of the pro-apoptotic 
protein BAX in the hippocampus. Our study demonstrated that T3 could potentially 
protect neurons in an AD model induced by STZ.

DOI: 10.3390/cells13211793
PMCID: PMC11545223
PMID: 39513900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


31. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):8855-8866. doi: 10.1002/alz.14346. Epub
2024  Nov 8.

Pharmacodynamic effects of semorinemab on plasma and CSF biomarkers of 
Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology.

Schauer SP(1), Toth B(2), Lee J(1), Honigberg LA(1), Ramakrishnan V(3), Jiang 
J(1), Kollmorgen G(4), Bayfield A(4), Wild N(4), Hoffman J(5), Ceniceros R(6), 
Dolton M(3), Bohórquez SMS(7), Hoogenraad CC(8), Wildsmith KR(1), Teng E(9), 
Monteiro C(9), Anania V(1), Yeh FL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Medicine, OMNI, Genentech Inc., South San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Department of Data and Statistical Sciences, Immunology, Infectious Diseases, 
and Ophthalmology, Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Modeling and Simulation, Development 
Sciences, Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA.
(4)Roche Diagnostics, GmbH, Penzberg, Germany.
(5)Department of Translational Medicine, Operations Diagnostics Technology 
Innovation, Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA.
(6)Department of Early Clinical Development, Clinical Operations, Genentech 
Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA.
(7)Department of Early Clinical Development, Clinical Imaging Group, Genentech 
Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA.
(8)Department of Neuroscience, Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, California, 
USA.
(9)Department of Early Clinical Development, OMNI, Genentech Inc., South San 
Francisco, California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Semorinemab, an anti-tau monoclonal antibody, was assessed in two 
Phase II trials for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Plasma and cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) biomarkers provided insights into the drug's potential mechanism of 
action.
METHODS: Qualified assays were used to measure biomarkers of tau, amyloidosis, 
glial activity, neuroinflammation, synaptic function, and neurodegeneration from 
participant samples in Tauriel (NCT03289143) and Lauriet (NCT03828747) Phase II 
trials.
RESULTS: Plasma phosphorylated Tau 181 (pTau181) and CSF chitinase-3-like 
protein 1 (YKL-40) increased following semorinemab treatment in both studies. In 
Lauriet, increasing plasma glial fibrillary protein (GFAP) concentrations 
stabilized with semorinemab, while this was not observed in Tauriel. Other AD 
pathophysiology biomarkers showed no consistent response to semorinemab.
DISCUSSION: Increases in CSF YKL-40 suggest that semorinemab may stimulate 
microglia activation in the presence of AD-associated Tau pathology, but not in 
healthy controls. Stabilization of plasma GFAP in Lauriet indicates a possible 
impact on reactive gliosis in mild-to-moderate AD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Tauriel ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03289143. Lauriet 
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03828747. Phase 1 ClinicalTrials.gov 
Identifier: NCT02820896.
HIGHLIGHTS: AD pathophysiology biomarkers were measured to assess the mechanism 
of action. Semorinemab increased CSF YKL-40 in participants with AD but not in 
healthy controls. Semorinemab possibly stabilized plasma GFAP in the Lauriet 
trial. Semorinemab treatment may activate microglia and moderate reactive 
gliosis.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14346
PMCID: PMC11667501
PMID: 39513754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.B., G.K., and N.W. are full‐time employees of 
Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Penzberg, Germany. All other authors are full‐time 
employees of Genentech Inc. (member of the Roche group). Edmond Teng is listed 
as a co‐inventor on the patent for semorinemab. Author disclosures are available 
in the Supporting information.


32. Curr Drug Targets. 2025;26(4):243-266. doi: 
10.2174/0113894501339455241101065040.

Unraveling Neurological Drug Delivery: Polymeric Nanocarriers for Enhanced 
Blood-Brain Barrier Penetration.

Inamdar A(1), Gurupadayya B(1), Halagali P(2), Tippavajhala VK(2), Khan F(3), 
Pathak R(4), Sharma H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, JSS College of Pharmacy, Mysuru, JSS 
Academy of Higher Education and Research, Mysuru, 570015, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, 576104, Karnataka; India.
(3)Department of Medical Sciences, Fergana Medical Institute of Public Health, 
Fergana, 150100, Uzbekistan.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Invertis University, Bareilly, UP, 243123, India.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Teerthanker Mahaveer College of Pharmacy, Teerthanker 
Mahaveer University, Moradabad, UP, 244001, India.

Treating neurological illnesses is challenging because the blood-brain barrier 
hinders therapeutic medications from reaching the brain. Recent advances in 
polymeric nanocarriers (PNCs), which improve medication permeability across the 
blood-brain barrier, may influence therapy strategies for neurological diseases. 
PNCs have several ways to deliver medications to the nervous system. This review 
article provides a summary of the parts and manufacturing methods involved in 
making PNCs. Additionally, it highlights the elements that result in PNCs having 
enhanced blood-brain barrier penetration. A combination of passive and active 
targeting strategies is used by PNCs intended to overcome the blood-brain 
barrier. Among these are micellar structures, nanogels, nanoparticles, 
cubosomes, and dendrimers. These nanocarriers, which are functionalized with 
certain ligands that target BBB transporters, enable the direct delivery of 
drugs to the brain. Mainly, the BBB prevents medications from entering the 
brain. Understanding the BBB's physiological and anatomical characteristics is 
necessary to get over this obstacle. Preclinical and clinical research 
demonstrates the safety and effectiveness of these PNCs, and their potential use 
in the treatment of neurological illnesses, including brain tumors, Parkinson's 
disease, and Alzheimer's disease, is discussed. Concerns that PNCs may have 
about their biocompatibility and possible toxicity are also covered in this 
review article. This study examines the revolutionary potential of PNCs in CNS 
drug delivery, potential roadblocks, ongoing research, and future opportunities 
for PNC design progress. PNCs open the door to more focused and efficient 
treatment for neurological illnesses by comprehending the subtleties of BBB 
penetration.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113894501339455241101065040
PMID: 39513304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Protein Pept Lett. 2024;31(10):759-772. doi: 
10.2174/0109298665333926240927074528.

Ferroptosis as a Therapeutic Target in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Exploring the 
Mechanisms and Potential of Treating Alzheimer's Disease and Parkinson's 
Disease.

Zhong H(1), Liu H(2), Fu Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Chengdu Third People's Hospital, Affiliated 
Hospital of Southwest Jiao Tong University, Chengdu, China.
(2)Department of Pediatric Pulmonology and Immunology, West China Second 
University Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.

Amidst the rising global burden of neurodegenerative diseases, such as 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, there is an urgent need for novel 
therapeutic strategies to combat these debilitating conditions. These diseases 
are characterized by progressive neural dysfunction leading to cognitive 
impairments, for which current therapeutic strategies remain palliative at best. 
Recently, the discovery of ferroptosis, a novel cell death mode that is 
different from apoptosis and autophagy, has opened new avenues in the field of 
cognitive research. With in-depth research on ferroptosis, the clinical 
significance of iron homeostasis disorders and lipid peroxidation in the 
occurrence, development, and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases are 
gradually becoming apparent. This study aims to elucidate the roles of 
ferroptosis in the context of neurodegeneration and to explore its potential as 
a therapeutic target. By unraveling the intricate relationship between iron 
homeostasis disorders, oxidative damage, and lipid metabolism disturbances in 
these diseases, new intervention targets are revealed. It offers a new dimension 
to the management of neurocognitive impairments in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's 
diseases. The implications of these findings extend beyond just Alzheimer's and 
Parkinson's diseases. They also have relevance with other neurological 
conditions characterized by oxidative stress and iron dysregulation. This review 
contributes to increased knowledge of ferroptosis and provides a foundational 
understanding that could lead to the development of innovative therapeutic 
strategies. Ultimately, it may alleviate the development of neurodegenerative 
diseases and improve cognitive function by preventing ferroptosis, which has not 
only academic significance but also potential clinical significance.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0109298665333926240927074528
PMID: 39513303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Front Mol Biosci. 2024 Oct 24;11:1478611. doi: 10.3389/fmolb.2024.1478611. 
eCollection 2024.

Novel cuproptosis metabolism-related molecular clusters and diagnostic signature 
for Alzheimer's disease.

Jia F(1), Han W(2), Gao S(1), Huang J(1), Zhao W(2), Lu Z(2), Zhao W(2), Li 
Z(2), Wang Z(2), Guo Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The Third Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Xiamen Key Laboratory of Brain Center, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen University, School of Medicine, Xiamen University, 
Xiamen, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
with no effective treatments available. There is growing evidence that 
cuproptosis contributes to the pathogenesis of this disease. This study 
developed a novel molecular clustering based on cuproptosis-related genes and 
constructed a signature for AD patients.
METHODS: The differentially expressed cuproptosis-related genes (DECRGs) were 
identified using the DESeq2 R package. The GSEA, PPI network, GO, KEGG, and 
correlation analysis were conducted to explore the biological functions of 
DECRGs. Molecular clusters were performed using unsupervised cluster analysis. 
Differences in biological processes between clusters were evaluated by GSVA and 
immune infiltration analysis. The optimal model was constructed by WGCNA and 
machine learning techniques. Decision curve analysis, calibration curves, 
receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, and two additional datasets were 
employed to confirm the prediction results. Finally, immunofluorescence (IF) 
staining in AD mice models was used to verify the expression levels of risk 
genes.
RESULTS: GSEA and CIBERSORT showed higher levels of resting NK cells, M2 
macrophages, naïve CD4+ T cells, neutrophils, monocytes, and plasma cells in AD 
samples compared to controls. We classified 310 AD patients into two molecular 
clusters with distinct expression profiles and different immunological 
characteristics. The C1 subtype showed higher abundance of cuproptosis-related 
genes, with higher proportions of regulatory T cells, CD8+T cells, and resting 
dendritic cells. We subsequently constructed a diagnostic model which was 
confirmed by nomogram, calibration, and decision curve analysis. The values of 
area under the curves (AUC) were 0.738 and 0.931 for the external datasets, 
respectively. The expression levels of risk genes were further validated in 
mouse brain samples.
CONCLUSION: Our study provided potential targets for AD treatment, developed a 
promising gene signature, and offered novel insights for exploring the 
pathogenesis of AD.

Copyright © 2024 Jia, Han, Gao, Huang, Zhao, Lu, Zhao, Li, Wang and Guo.

DOI: 10.3389/fmolb.2024.1478611
PMCID: PMC11540791
PMID: 39513039

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


35. Dement Neurocogn Disord. 2024 Oct;23(4):165-187. doi: 
10.12779/dnd.2024.23.4.165. Epub 2024 Oct 29.

Lecanemab: Appropriate Use Recommendations by Korean Dementia Association.

Park KH(1), Kim GH(2), Kim CH(3), Koh SH(4), Moon SY(5), Park YH(6), Seo SW(7), 
Yoon B(8), Lim JS(9), Kim BC(10), Kim HJ(11), Na HR(12), Shim Y(13), Yang Y(14), 
Lee CN(15), Rhee HY(16), Jung S(17), Jeong JH(18), Choi H(4), Yang DW(8), Choi 
SH(19).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, Gachon 
University College of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University Mokdong Hospital, Ewha Womans 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, Hallym 
University College of Medicine, Anyang, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Hanyang University Guri Hospital, Hanyang University 
College of Medicine, Guri, Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Ajou University Hospital, Ajou University School of 
Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
(6)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seoul 
National University College of Medicine, Seongnam, Korea.
(7)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(8)Department of Neurology, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(9)Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(10)Department of Neurology, Chonnam National University Hospital, Chonnam 
National University Medical School, Gwangju, Korea.
(11)Department of Neurology, Hanyang University Hospital, Hanyang University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(12)Department of Neurology, Bobath Memorial Hospital, Seongnam, Korea.
(13)Department of Neurology, Eunpyeong St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, 
The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(14)Department of Neurology, Soonchunhyang University Cheonan Hospital, 
Soonchunhyang University College of Medicine, Cheonan, Korea.
(15)Department of Neurology, Korea University Anam Hospital, Korea University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(16)Department of Neurology, Kyung Hee University Hospital at Gangdong, Kyung 
Hee University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(17)Department of Neurology, Hallym University Kangnam Sacred Heart Hospital, 
Hallym University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(18)Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University Seoul Hospital, Ewha Womans 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(19)Department of Neurology, Inha University Hospital, Inha University College 
of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.

Lecanemab (product name Leqembi®) is an anti-amyloid monoclonal antibody 
treatment approved for use in Korea for patients with mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI) or mild dementia due to Alzheimer's disease. The Korean Dementia 
Association has created recommendations for the appropriate use of lecanemab to 
assist clinicians. These recommendations include selecting patients for 
administration, necessary pre-administration tests and preparations, 
administration methods, monitoring for amyloid related imaging abnormalities 
(ARIA), and communication with patients and caregivers. Lecanemab is recommended 
for patients with MCI or mild dementia who confirmed positive amyloid 
biomarkers, and should not be administered to patients with severe 
hypersensitivity to lecanemab or those unable to undergo magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) evaluation. To predict the risk of ARIA before administration, 
apolipoprotein E genotyping is conducted, and regular brain MRI evaluations are 
recommended to monitor for ARIA during treatment. The most common adverse 
reactions are infusion-related reactions, which require appropriate management 
upon occurrence. Additional caution is needed when co-administering with 
anticoagulants or tissue plasminogen activator due to the risk of 
macrohemorrhage. Clinicians should consider the efficacy and necessary 
conditions for administration, as well as the safety of lecanemab, to make a 
comprehensive decision regarding its use.

© 2024 Korean Dementia Association.

DOI: 10.12779/dnd.2024.23.4.165
PMCID: PMC11538855
PMID: 39512702

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have no 
financial conflicts of interest.


36. Dement Neurocogn Disord. 2024 Oct;23(4):212-223. doi: 
10.12779/dnd.2024.23.4.212. Epub 2024 Oct 22.

Korea-Registries to Overcome Dementia and Accelerate Dementia Research (K-ROAD): 
A Cohort for Dementia Research and Ethnic-Specific Insights.

Jang H(1), Shin D(2), Kim Y(3), Kim KW(4), Lee J(5), Kim JP(2), Kim HJ(2), Cho 
SH(6), Kim SE(7), Na DL(2), Seo SW(2); K-ROAD Study Groups.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Kangwon National University Hospital, Kangwon 
National University School of Medicine, Chuncheon, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Jeonbuk National University Medical School and 
Hospital, Jeonju, Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Chungnam National University Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Chungnam National University, Daejeon, Korea.
(6)Department of Neurology, Chonnam National University Hospital, Chonnam 
National University Medical School, Gwangju, Korea.
(7)Department of Neurology, Inje University College of Medicine, Haeundae Paik 
Hospital, Busan, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease, is a 
significant global health concern, with early diagnosis and treatment 
development being critical goals. While numerous cohorts have advanced dementia 
research, there is a lack of comprehensive data on ethnic differences, 
particularly for the Korean population. The Korea-Registries to Overcome 
Dementia and Accelerate Dementia Research (K-ROAD) aims to establish a 
large-scale, hospital-based dementia cohort to address this gap, with a focus on 
understanding disease progression, developing early diagnostics, and supporting 
treatment advancements specific to the Korean population.
METHODS: K-ROAD comprises multiple prospective cohorts. Participants underwent 
clinical evaluations, neuroimaging, and biomarker analysis, with data collected 
on a range of clinical and genomic markers.
RESULTS: As of December 2023, K-ROAD has recruited over 5,800 participants, 
including individuals across the Alzheimer's clinical syndrome, subcortical 
vascular cognitive impairment, and frontotemporal dementia spectra. Preliminary 
findings highlight significant ethnic differences in amyloid positivity, 
cognitive decline, and biomarker profiles, compared to Western cohorts.
CONCLUSIONS: The K-ROAD cohort offers a unique and critical resource for 
dementia research, providing insights into ethnic-specific disease 
characteristics and biomarker profiles. These findings will contribute to the 
development of personalized diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to dementia, 
enhancing global understanding of the disease.

© 2024 Korean Dementia Association.

DOI: 10.12779/dnd.2024.23.4.212
PMCID: PMC11538854
PMID: 39512701

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have no 
financial conflicts of interest.


37. Dement Neurocogn Disord. 2024 Oct;23(4):188-201. doi: 
10.12779/dnd.2024.23.4.188. Epub 2024 Oct 28.

Revolutionizing Alzheimer's Diagnosis and Management: The Dawn of 
Biomarker-Based Precision Medicine.

Kwon HS(1), Yu HJ(2), Koh SH(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hanyang University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Bundang Jesaeng General Hospital, Seongnam, Korea.
(3)Department of Translational Medicine, Hanyang University Graduate School of 
Biomedical Science & Engineering, Seoul, Korea.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a leading cause of dementia, presents a formidable 
global health challenge intensified by the aging population. This review 
encapsulates the evolving landscape of AD diagnosis and treatment with a special 
focus on the innovative role of fluid biomarkers. Pathologically, AD is marked 
by amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles of hyperphosphorylated 
tau, which lead to synaptic dysfunction, neuronal loss, and cognitive decline. 
These pathological changes, commencing decades before symptom onset, underscore 
the need for early detection and intervention. Diagnosis traditionally relies on 
clinical assessment, neuropsychological testing, and neuroimaging techniques. 
However, fluid biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid and blood, such as various 
forms of Aβ, total tau, phosphorylated tau, and neurofilament light chain, are 
emerging as less invasive, cost-effective diagnostic tools. These biomarkers are 
pivotal for early diagnosis, differential diagnosis, disease progression 
monitoring, and treatment response evaluation. The treatment landscape is 
shifting toward personalized medicine, highlighted by advancements in Aβ 
immunotherapies, such as lecanemab and donanemab. Demonstrating efficacy in 
phase III clinical trials, these therapies hold promise as tailored treatment 
strategies based on individual biomarker profiles. The integration of fluid 
biomarkers into clinical practice represents a significant advance in AD 
management, providing the potential for early and precise diagnosis, coupled 
with personalized therapeutic approaches. This heralds a new era in combating 
this debilitating disease.

© 2024 Korean Dementia Association.

DOI: 10.12779/dnd.2024.23.4.188
PMCID: PMC11538857
PMID: 39512700

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have no 
potential conflicts of interest.


38. SAR QSAR Environ Res. 2024 Oct;35(10):919-947. doi: 
10.1080/1062936X.2024.2419911. Epub 2024 Nov 8.

Molecular mechanism underlying effect of D93 and D289 protonation states on 
inhibitor-BACE1 binding: exploration from multiple independent Gaussian 
accelerated molecular dynamics and deep learning.

Du J(1), Xu G(1), Zhang W(1), Cong J(1), Si X(1), Wei B(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Artificial Intelligence, Shandong University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Qingdao, China.

BACE1 has been regarded as an essential drug design target for treating 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Multiple independent Gaussian accelerated molecular 
dynamics simulations (GaMD), deep learning (DL), and molecular mechanics general 
Born surface area (MM-GBSA) method are integrated to elucidate the molecular 
mechanism underlying the effect of D93 and D289 protonation on binding of 
inhibitors OV6 and 4B2 to BACE1. The GaMD trajectory-based DL successfully 
identifies significant function domains. Dynamic analysis shows that the 
protonation of D93 and D289 strongly affects the structural flexibility and 
dynamic behaviour of BACE1. Free energy landscapes indicate that inhibitor-bound 
BACE1s have more conformational states in the protonated states than the 
wild-type (WT) BACE1, and show more binding poses of inhibitors. Binding 
affinities calculated using the MM-GBSA method indicate that the protonation of 
D93 and D289 highly disturbs the binding ability of inhibitors to BACE1. In 
addition, the protonation of two residues significantly affects the hydrogen 
bonding interactions (HBIs) of OV6 and 4B2 with BACE1, altering their binding 
activity to BACE1. The binding hot spots of BACE1 recognized by residue-based 
free energy estimations provide rational targeting sites for drug design towards 
BACE1. This study is anticipated to provide theoretical aids for drug 
development towards treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.1080/1062936X.2024.2419911
PMID: 39512118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(3):597-616. doi: 10.1177/13872877241291070.
Epub  2024 Nov 8.

Economic evaluations of technology-based interventions used to provide care 
support for people with mild dementia or mild cognitive impairment and their 
caregivers: A systematic review.

Vargas-Martínez AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Faculty of Nursing, Physiotherapy and Podiatry, 
University of Seville, Seville, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of interventions is a key issue owing to the 
limited resources of healthcare services.
OBJECTIVE: To conduct a systematic review of economic evaluations of 
technology-based healthcare interventions in care support for people with 
dementia or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and their caregivers, and of the 
tools used to assess effectiveness and costs.
METHODS: The following databases were used: PubMed, National Health Service 
Economic Evaluation Database, and Health Technology Assessment. A total of 207 
articles from 2012 to 2024 were identified and then screened.
RESULTS: Seventeen studies were included, of which nine were study protocols. 
Almost half (n = 8) the interventions were multicomponent. The most common 
components used in the interventions were cognitive stimulation, physical 
functioning and continuing support. Regarding the efficiency results of these 
interventions, only three studies provided a full economic evaluation. The most 
frequent tools in the economic evaluations used to measure effectiveness 
(measured in quality-adjusted life years) and costs were the European Quality of 
Life-5 Dimensions and Resource Utilization in Dementia instruments, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Most of the interventions evaluated were cost-effective. However, 
these results should be interpreted with caution, given the scarcity of the 
literature, and further economic evaluations of technology-based healthcare 
interventions for people with mild dementia or MCI care support and their 
caregivers are therefore needed. Additionally, a meta-analysis could not be 
performed due to the heterogeneity of the data.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241291070
PMID: 39512098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe author 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


40. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(4):891-896. doi: 10.1177/13872877241292370.
Epub  2024 Nov 8.

Informing cognitively healthy research participants of modifiable dementia risk 
factors: Ethical implications.

Graham M(1), Rossor M(2), Lawlor B(3), Naci L(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Centre for Ethics and Humanities, Oxford University, Oxford, UK.
(2)Dementia Research Centre, University College London, London, UK.
(3)Global Brain Health Institute, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(4)Trinity College Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland.

Research has shown that up to 40% of dementia incidence can be accounted for by 
12 modifiable lifestyle risk factors. However, the predictive value of these 
risks factors at an individual level remains uncertain. Ethical considerations 
that are typically invoked with respect to the disclosure of individual research 
results-beneficence and non-maleficence, respect for autonomy, and justice-do 
not provide conclusive justification for, or against, disclosing modifiable risk 
factors for future dementia to cognitively unimpaired research participants. We 
argue for a different approach to evaluating the disclosure of individual-level 
modifiable risk factors for dementia. Rather than focusing on individual-level 
disease prediction and prevention, we suggest that disclosure should be 
evaluated based on the impact of behavioral and lifestyle changes on current 
brain health.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241292370
PMID: 39512082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


41. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):8987-9003. doi: 10.1002/alz.14344. Epub
2024  Nov 7.

Dementia risk reduction in the African context: Multi-national implementation of 
multimodal strategies to promote healthy brain aging in Africa (the 
Africa-FINGERS project).

Udeh-Momoh CT(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Maina R(1), Anazodo UC(8)(9)(10), Akinyemi 
R(5)(6)(11), Atwoli L(1)(12), Baker L(2), Bassil D(13), Blackmon K(1), Bosire 
E(1), Chemutai G(1), Crivelli L(14), Eze LU(5)(6), Ibanez A(5)(6)(15), 
Kafetsouli D(16), Karikari TK(17), Khakali L(1), Kumar M(18), Lengyel I(19), de 
Jager Loots CA(4)(16), Mangialasche F(3)(4), Mbugua S(1), Merali Z(1), Mielke 
M(2), Mostert C(1), Muthoni E(20), Nesic-Taylor O(1)(21), Ngugi A(20), Nguku 
S(22), Ogunniyi A(11), Ogunyemi A(5)(6)(23), Okonkwo OC(24), Okubadejo N(25), 
Perneczky R(7)(16)(26)(27)(28)(29), Peto T(19), Riang'a RM(20), Saleh M(30), 
Sayed S(31), Shah J(1), Shah S(32), Solomon A(3)(4)(16)(33), Thesen T(1)(34), 
Trepel D(5)(6)(14), Ucheagwu V(35), Valcour V(5)(6)(36), Waa S(22), Watermeyer 
T(37), Yokoyama J(36), Zetterberg H(38)(39)(40)(41)(42)(43), Kivipelto 
M(3)(4)(16)(44); Africa‐FINGERS Study Team.

Author information:
(1)Brain and Mind Institute, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(2)School of Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)FINGERS Brain Health Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Global Brain Health Institute (GBHI), UCSF, San Francisco, California, USA.
(6)Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(7)Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience (SITraN), University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(8)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute, 
McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(9)Medical Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Crestview Radiology, Ltd., Lagos, 
Nigeria.
(10)Department of Medicine & Clinical & Radiation Oncology, University of Cape 
Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(11)Institute for Advanced Medical Research and Training, College of Medicine, 
University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(12)Department of Medicine, Medical College East Africa, the Aga Khan 
University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(13)Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard University, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(14)Department of Cognitive Neurology, Fleni, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(15)Trinity College Institute for Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(16)Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(17)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(18)Grossman School of Medicine, New York University, New York, New York, USA.
(19)School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences, Queen's University 
Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(20)Department of Population Health, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(21)Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.
(22)Department of Radiology, Aga Khan University Hospital, Nairobi, Kenya.
(23)Department of Community Health and Primary Care, University of Lagos, Lagos, 
Nigeria.
(24)Division of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Department of Medicine, University 
of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(25)Neurology Unit, Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, University of 
Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria.
(26)Ludwig Maximilien University, Munich, Germany.
(27)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, LMU Hospital, Ludwig Maximilians 
Universität Munich, Munich, Germany.
(28)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Munich, Munich, Germany.
(29)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(30)Cancer Research Unit, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(31)Department of Pathology, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(32)Department of Ophthalmology, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(33)Department of Neurology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of 
Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(34)Department of Medical Education, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, 
Dublin, Ireland.
(35)Department of Psychology, Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka, Anambra, Nigeria.
(36)University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(37)Centre for Dementia Prevention, Clinical Brain Sciences, The University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburg, UK.
(38)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(39)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(40)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(41)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(42)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(43)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(44)Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.

Dementia prevention in Africa is critically underexplored, despite the 
continent's high prevalence of modifiable risk factors. With a predominantly 
young and middle-aged population, Africa presents a prime opportunity to 
implement evidence-based strategies that could significantly reduce future 
dementia cases and mitigate its economic impact. The multinational 
Africa-FINGERS program offers an innovative solution, pioneering culturally 
sensitive, multidomain interventions tailored to the unique challenges of the 
region.  Leveraging insights from landmark global studies such as 
Worldwide-FINGERS and Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, the program 
employs a multideterminant precision prevention framework, grounded in community 
based systems dynamics. Africa-FINGERS further integrates cutting-edge 
state-of-the-art multimodal biomarker evaluations tailored to regional contexts, 
with the goal of advancing brain health and establishing a global standard for 
dementia prevention. This groundbreaking initiative highlights the potential for 
scalableand sustainable interventions, thus is poised to transform dementia risk 
reduction efforts across the continent. HIGHLIGHTS: Dementia rates are 
escalating in Africa, largely due to longer life spans and increased prevalence 
of modifiable risk factors. Yet, few regional interventions have directly 
targeted lifestyle factors to reduce dementia risk. The multinational 
Africa-FINGERS study will address this gap by adapting the successful FINGERS 
lifestyle intervention to African populations. Africa-FINGERS will pioneer a 
culturally informed, multidomain dementia risk reduction intervention in the 
African region through feasibility dementia prevention trials in rural and urban 
sites across Kenya and Nigeria in the first instance, enrolling 600 at-risk 
adults (≥ 50 years). The program adopts participatory research methods to 
develop culturally appropriate interventions and build infrastructure to 
evaluate dementia biomarkers from ante and post mortem samples. A 
cost-effectiveness analysis will be conducted to guide the strategic 
implementation of Africa-FINGERS into regional health systems. The 
Africa-FINGERS strategy aligns with the Worldwide-FINGERS framework and 
integrates the global Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative approach, 
emphasizing multimodal analysis.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14344
PMCID: PMC11667543
PMID: 39511921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in 
symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, and Roche; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). IL receives unrestricted research funding from OPTOS 
Plc. The other authors declare no competing interests. Author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


42. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):9049-9059. doi: 10.1002/alz.14323. Epub
2024  Nov 7.

The Health Equity Scholars Program: Fostering Culturally Competent and 
Successful Independent Investigators in Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia 
Research.

Amaza H(1), Niay A(1), Thao MS(1), Strong J(1), Arentoft A(2), Guzman V(3), 
O'Bryant SE(4)(5), Weiner M(6)(7)(8)(9)(10)(11), Mindt MR(3)(12)(13), Okonkwo 
OC(1); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative; HABS‐HD Investigative Team.

Author information:
(1)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, California State University, Northridge, 
Northridge, California, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(4)Department of Family Medicine & Manipulative Medicine, Texas College of 
Osteopathic Medicine, University of North Texas Health Science Center at Fort 
Worth, Fort Worth, Texas, USA.
(5)Institute for Translational Research, University of North Texas Health 
Science Center, Fort Worth, Fort Worth, Texas, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(9)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Northern California Institute 
for Research and Education (NCIRE), San Francisco, California, USA.
(10)VA Advanced Imaging Research Center, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(11)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(12)Department of Psychology, Fordham University, Bronx, New York, USA.
(13)Department of Psychology, Latin American and Latino Studies Institute, 
African and African American Studies, Fordham University, Bronx, New York, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The Health Equity Scholars Program (HESP) addresses the critical 
need for a diverse, culturally competent workforce to study and treat older 
adults from underrepresented populations (URPs) with Alzheimer's disease and 
related dementias (AD/ADRD). The HESP offers tailored mentored training in 
AD/ADRD research concepts, aiming to develop successful independent researchers. 
It recruits Scholars from underrepresented backgrounds as well as those 
passionate about AD/ADRD health equity research.
METHODS: We (1) describe the fundamental elements of the HESP, and (2) present 
preliminary data from the HESP program evaluation results performed by an 
outside agency, pre-post participation surveys, and Scholar accomplishments.
RESULTS: The HESP Scholars reported high rates of proficiency, satisfaction, and 
competency in nearly all evaluated areas, and have been successful in obtaining 
grants, promotions, and publications.
DISCUSSION: These initial outcomes data suggest that the HESP is meeting its 
objective of diversifying the workforce in the field of AD/ADRD research and 
care.
HIGHLIGHTS: The Health Equity Scholars Program aims to cultivate a diverse and 
culturally competent workforce, who are well-prepared to study and treat 
underrepresented older adults with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias 
(AD/ADRD). The program provides tailored mentored training in AD/ADRD research 
concepts, with the goal of nurturing successful independent researchers. 
Rigorous evaluation processes for applications ensure the selection of highly 
qualified Scholars. The program includes tailored training activities such as 
seminars and grant writing workshops, and tracks Scholar achievements while 
undergoing annual external evaluation to enhance its training program 
iteratively.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14323
PMCID: PMC11667533
PMID: 39511895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author disclosures are available in the 
Supporting Information.


43. Mol Ther. 2024 Dec 4;32(12):4303-4318. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2024.11.003. Epub
 2024 Nov 6.

AAVrh.10 delivery of novel APOE2-Christchurch variant suppresses amyloid and Tau 
pathology in Alzheimer's disease mice.

Günaydin C(1), Sondhi D(1), Kaminsky SM(1), Lephart HC(1), Leopold PL(1), 
Hackett NR(1), Khanna R(2), Crystal RG(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, 
USA.
(2)LEXEO Therapeutics, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, 
USA. Electronic address: geneticmedicine@med.cornell.edu.

Gene therapy to treat hereditary disorders conventionally delivers the normal 
allele to compensate for loss-of-function mutations. More effective gene therapy 
may be achieved using a gain-of-function variant. We tested the hypothesis that 
AAVrh.10-mediated CNS delivery of the human APOE2 allele with the Christchurch 
mutation (R136S) (E2Ch) will provide superior protection against 
APOE4-associated Alzheimer's disease (AD) in mice compared to the unmodified 
APOE2 allele (E2). The vectors were assessed in two mouse strains with humanized 
APOE4: APP.PSEN1/TRE4 "amyloid mice" and P301S/TRE4, "tau mice." Both the E2Ch 
and E2 vectors prevented Aβ42 and Aβ40 accumulation and decreased β-amyloid 
aggregates in amyloid mice, but only the E2Ch vector suppressed tau tangles in 
tau mice. Microglial activation and reactive astrocytes were significantly 
suppressed by both vectors in amyloid mice but only the E2Ch vector mediated 
significant suppression of Iba1 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in 
tau mice. In four behavioral assays, the E2 and E2Ch vectors had similar 
benefits in amyloid mice, but E2Ch outperformed E2 in tau mice. In summary, 
while E2 is effective in suppressing amyloid pathology, the novel E2 variant 
E2Ch more effectively treats both the amyloid and tau pathology of murine AD 
in APOE4 background, supporting the development of AAVrh.10APOE2Ch as a therapy 
for APOE4-associated AD.

Copyright © 2024 The American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2024.11.003
PMCID: PMC11638875
PMID: 39511891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests D.S. and S.M.K. have 
equity in LEXEO Therapeutics; R.G.C. has equity and is a consultant to LEXEO 
Therapeutics; R.K. is an employee of LEXEO Therapeutics; R.G.C., C.G., D.S., and 
S.M.K. are named in a patent related to the subject of the study.


44. Mol Med. 2024 Nov 8;30(1):204. doi: 10.1186/s10020-024-00980-y.

Oral administration of butylated hydroxytoluene induces neuroprotection in a 
streptozotocin-induced rat Alzheimer's disease model via inhibition of neuronal 
ferroptosis.

Faraji P(1)(2), Parandavar E(1), Kuhn H(3), Habibi-Rezaei M(4), Borchert A(2), 
Zahedi E(5), Ahmadian S(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate 
member of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, 
Charitéplatz 1, D-10117, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate 
member of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, 
Charitéplatz 1, D-10117, Berlin, Germany. hartmut.kuehn@charite.de.
(4)School of Biology, College of Science, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Institute of Physiology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran. 
sh.ahmadian@ut.ac.ir.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common human neurodegenerative 
disorder worldwide. Owing to its chronic nature, our limited understanding of 
its pathophysiological mechanisms, and because of the lack of effective anti-AD 
drugs, AD represents a significant socio-economic challenge for all 
industrialized countries. Neuronal cell death is a key factor in AD pathogenesis 
and recent studies have suggested that neuronal ferroptosis may play a major 
patho-physiological role. Since ferroptosis involves free radical-mediated lipid 
peroxidation, we hypothesized that enteral administration of the radical 
scavenger butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) might slow down or even prevent the 
development of AD-related symptoms in an in vivo animal AD model.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: To test this hypothesis, we employed the rat model of 
streptozotocin-induced AD and administered butylated hydroxytoluene orally at a 
dose of 120 mg/kg body weight. Following BHT treatment, neuronal cell death was 
induced by bilateral stereotactic intraventricular injection of streptozotocin 
at a dose of 3.0 mg/kg body weight. Three weeks after surgery, we assessed the 
learning capabilities and the short-term memory of three experimental groups 
using the conventional y-maze test: (i) streptozotocin-treated rats (BHT 
pre-treatment), (ii) streptozotocin-treated rats (no BHT pre-treatment), (iii) 
sham-operated rats (BHT pre-treatment but no streptozotocin administration). 
After the y-maze test, the animals were sacrificed, hippocampal tissue was 
prepared and several biochemical (malonyl dialdehyde formation, glutathione 
homeostasis, gene expression patterns) and histochemical (Congo-red staining, 
Nissl staining, Perls staining) readout parameters were quantified.
RESULTS: Intraventricular streptozotocin injection induced the development of 
AD-related symptoms, elevated the degree of lipid peroxidation and upregulated 
the expression of ferroptosis-related genes. Histochemical analysis indicated 
neuronal cell death and neuroinflammation, which were paralleled by aberrant 
intraneuronal iron deposition. The streptozotocin-induced alterations were 
significantly reduced and sometimes even abolished by oral BHT treatment.
CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that oral BHT treatment attenuated the development 
of AD-related symptoms in an in vivo rat model, most probably via inhibiting 
neuronal ferroptosis. These findings suggest that BHT might constitute a 
promising candidate as anti-AD drug. However, more work is needed to explore the 
potential applicability of BHT in other models of neurodegeneration and in 
additional ferroptosis-related disorders.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s10020-024-00980-y
PMCID: PMC11545178
PMID: 39511487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they do not have any 
competing interests.


45. Phytother Res. 2025 Jan;39(1):233-245. doi: 10.1002/ptr.8369. Epub 2024 Nov
7.

Identification of Cannabidiolic and Cannabigerolic Acids as MTDL AChE, BuChE, 
and BACE-1 Inhibitors Against Alzheimer's Disease by In Silico, In Vitro, and 
In Vivo Studies.

Vitale RM(1), Morace AM(2), D'Errico A(3), Ricciardi F(2), Fusco A(2), Boccella 
S(2), Guida F(2), Nasso R(3), Rading S(4)(5), Karsak M(4)(5), Caprioglio D(6), 
Iannotti FA(1), Arcone R(3), Luongo L(2), Masullo M(3), Maione S(2), Amodeo 
P(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomolecular Chemistry (ICB), National Research Council (CNR), 
Pozzuoli (NA), Italy.
(2)Department of Experimental Medicine, Division of Pharmacology, University of 
Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Naples, Italy.
(3)Department of Medical, Human Movement and Well-Being Sciences, University of 
Naples "Parthenope", Naples, Italy.
(4)Neuronal and Cellular Signal Transduction, Center for Molecular Neurobiology 
Hamburg (ZMNH), University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg, 
Germany.
(5)Institute of Human Genetics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf 
(UKE), Hamburg, Germany.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, University of 
Eastern Piedmont "A. Avogadro", Novara, Italy.

Cannabidiolic (CBDA) and cannabigerolic (CBGA) acids are naturally occurring 
compounds from Cannabis sativa plant, previously identified by us as dual 
PPARα/γ agonists. Since the development of multitarget-directed ligands (MTDL) 
represents a valuable strategy to alleviate and slow down the progression of 
multifactorial diseases, we evaluated the potential ability of CBDA and CBGA to 
also inhibit enzymes involved in the modulation of the cholinergic tone and/or 
β-amyloid production. A multidisciplinary approach based on computational and 
biochemical studies was pursued on selected enzymes, followed by behavioral and 
electrophysiological experiments in an AD mouse model. The β-arrestin assay on 
GPR109A and qPCR on TRPM7 were also carried out. CBDA and CBGA are effective on 
both acetyl- and butyryl-cholinesterases (AChE/BuChE), as well as on 
β-secretase-1 (BACE-1) enzymes in a low micromolar range, and they also prevent 
aggregation of β-amyloid fibrils. Computational studies provided a rationale for 
the competitive (AChE) vs. noncompetitive (BuChE) inhibitory profile of the two 
ligands. The repeated treatment with CBDA and CBGA (10 mg/kg, i.p.) improved the 
cognitive deficit induced by the β-amyloid peptide. A recovery of the long-term 
potentiation in the hippocampus was observed, where the treatment with CBGA and 
CBDA also restored the physiological expression level of TRPM7, a receptor 
channel involved in neurodegenerative diseases. We also showed that these 
compounds do not stimulate GPR109A in β-arrestin assay. Collectively, these data 
broaden the pharmacological profile of CBDA and CBGA and suggest their potential 
use as novel anti-AD MTDLs.

© 2024 The Author(s). Phytotherapy Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.8369
PMCID: PMC11745148
PMID: 39510547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: In 2017–2018, Rosa Maria Vitale received funding 
from GW Research Ltd. on Project GWCRI17041.


46. Eur J Pharmacol. 2024 Dec 15;985:177098. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.177098.
Epub  2024 Nov 5.

The therapeutic potential of glycyrrhizic acid and its metabolites in 
neurodegenerative diseases: Evidence from animal models.

Zeng X(1), Sheng Z(2), Zhang Y(2), Xiao J(2), Li Y(2), Zhang J(2), Xu G(3), Jia 
J(4), Wang M(5), Li L(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Center of Neuroscience, Jiaxing University Medical College, Jiaxing, 
314001, China; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Jiaxing 
University Medical College, Jiaxing, 314001, China; Institute of Forensic 
Science, Jiaxing University, Jiaxing, 314001, China.
(2)Research Center of Neuroscience, Jiaxing University Medical College, Jiaxing, 
314001, China.
(3)Institute of Forensic Science, Jiaxing University, Jiaxing, 314001, China.
(4)Research Center of Neuroscience, Jiaxing University Medical College, Jiaxing, 
314001, China; Department of Physiology, Jiaxing University Medical College, 
Jiaxing, 314001, China. Electronic address: jiajinjing1986@zjxu.edu.cn.
(5)Research Center of Neuroscience, Jiaxing University Medical College, Jiaxing, 
314001, China; Department of Physiology, Jiaxing University Medical College, 
Jiaxing, 314001, China. Electronic address: wangmin3826@zjxu.edu.cn.
(6)Research Center of Neuroscience, Jiaxing University Medical College, Jiaxing, 
314001, China; Department of Physiology, Jiaxing University Medical College, 
Jiaxing, 314001, China. Electronic address: Lily7588@163.com.

Neurodegenerative diseases, mostly occurring in the elderly population, are the 
significant cause of disability and death worldwide. The pathogenesis of 
neurodegenerative diseases is still largely unknown yet, although they have been 
continuously explored. Thus, there is still a lack of safe, effective, and low 
side effect drugs in clinical practice for the treatment of neurodegenerative 
diseases. Pieces of accumulating evidence have demonstrated that licorice played 
neuroprotective roles in various neurodegenerative diseases. In the past two 
decades, increasing studies have indicated that glycyrrhizic acid (GL), the main 
active ingredient from traditional Chinese medicine licorice (widely used in the 
food industry) and a triterpenoid saponin with multiple pharmacological effects 
(such as anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immune regulation), and its 
metabolites (glycyrrhetinic acid and carbenoxolone) play a neuroprotective role 
in a range of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and epilepsy. This review will 
elaborate on the multiple neuroprotective mechanisms of GL and its metabolites 
in this series of diseases, aiming to provide a basis for further research on 
these protective drugs for neurodegenerative diseases and their clinical 
application. In summary, GL may be a promising candidate drug for the therapy of 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.177098
PMID: 39510337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


47. Cell Metab. 2025 Jan 7;37(1):169-186.e9. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2024.10.006.
Epub  2024 Nov 6.

Microbiota-derived lysophosphatidylcholine alleviates Alzheimer's disease 
pathology via suppressing ferroptosis.

Zha X(1), Liu X(2), Wei M(3), Huang H(3), Cao J(3), Liu S(3), Bian X(3), Zhang 
Y(3), Xiao F(3), Xie Y(4), Wang W(5), Zhang C(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beijing Key Laboratory of Neural 
Regeneration and Repair & Beijing Key Laboratory for Tumor Invasion and 
Metastasis, Beijing Laboratory of Oral Health, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China; State Key Laboratory of Neurology and Oncology Drug Development, 
Nanjing, China.
(2)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beijing Key Laboratory of Neural 
Regeneration and Repair & Beijing Key Laboratory for Tumor Invasion and 
Metastasis, Beijing Laboratory of Oral Health, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China; State Key Laboratory of Neurology and Oncology Drug Development, 
Nanjing, China. Electronic address: liuxicheng@ccmu.edu.cn.
(3)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beijing Key Laboratory of Neural 
Regeneration and Repair & Beijing Key Laboratory for Tumor Invasion and 
Metastasis, Beijing Laboratory of Oral Health, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(4)National Center for Protein Sciences Beijing, State Key Laboratory of 
Proteomics, Beijing Proteome Research Center, Beijing Institute of Lifeomics, 
Beijing, China.
(5)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beijing Key Laboratory of Neural 
Regeneration and Repair & Beijing Key Laboratory for Tumor Invasion and 
Metastasis, Beijing Laboratory of Oral Health, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China. Electronic address: wangwei@ccmu.edu.cn.
(6)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beijing Key Laboratory of Neural 
Regeneration and Repair & Beijing Key Laboratory for Tumor Invasion and 
Metastasis, Beijing Laboratory of Oral Health, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China; State Key Laboratory of Neurology and Oncology Drug Development, 
Nanjing, China; Chinese Institute for Brain Research, Beijing, China. Electronic 
address: czhang@ccmu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a pervasive neurodegenerative disorder, and new 
approaches for its prevention and therapy are critically needed. Here, we 
elucidate a gut-microbiome-brain axis that offers actionable perspectives for 
achieving this objective. Using the 5xFAD mouse model, we identify increased 
Clostridium abundance and decreased Bacteroides abundance as key features 
associated with β-amyloid (Aβ) burden. Treatment with Bacteroides ovatus, or its 
associated metabolite lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), significantly reduces Aβ 
load and ameliorates cognitive impairment. Mechanistically, LPC acts through the 
orphan receptor GPR119, inhibiting ACSL4 expression, thereby suppressing 
ferroptosis and ameliorating AD pathologies. Analysis of fecal and serum samples 
from individuals with AD also reveals diminished levels of Bacteroides and LPC. 
This study thus identifies a B.ovatus-triggered pathway regulating AD 
pathologies and indicates that the use of single gut microbiota, metabolite, or 
small molecule compound may complement current prevention and treatment 
approaches for AD.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2024.10.006
PMID: 39510074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


48. Curr Top Behav Neurosci. 2025;69:197-226. doi: 10.1007/7854_2024_546.

What Can We Learn About Alzheimer's Disease from People with Down Syndrome?

Maure-Blesa L(1)(2)(3), Rodríguez-Baz I(1)(2)(3), Carmona-Iragui M(1)(2)(3), 
Fortea J(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Facultad de Medicina, Hospital 
de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica Sant Pau (IIB 
SANT PAU), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Center of Biomedical Investigation Network for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana de Síndrome de Down, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Facultad de Medicina, Hospital 
de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica Sant Pau (IIB 
SANT PAU), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. 
JFortea@santpau.cat.
(5)Center of Biomedical Investigation Network for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain. JFortea@santpau.cat.
(6)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana de Síndrome de Down, 
Barcelona, Spain. JFortea@santpau.cat.

Down syndrome (DS) is the most frequent cause of intellectual disability of 
genetic origin, estimated to affect about 1 in 700 babies born worldwide (CDC 
2023). In Europe and the United States, current estimates indicate a population 
prevalence of 5.6 and 6.7 per 10,000 individuals, respectively, which translates 
to more than 200,000 people in the United States, more than 400,000 people in 
Europe, and approximately six million worldwide. Advances in healthcare and the 
treatment of accompanying conditions have significantly prolonged the lifespan 
of those with DS over the past 50 years. Consequently, there is a pressing need 
to address the challenges associated with ageing among this population, with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) being the primary concern. In this chapter, we will 
review the significance of studying this population to understand AD biology, 
the insights gained on AD in DS (DSAD), and how this knowledge can help us 
understand the AD not only in DS but also in the general population. We will 
conclude by exploring the objectives that remain to be accomplished.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/7854_2024_546
PMID: 39509049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):8541-8555. doi: 10.1002/alz.14296. Epub
2024  Nov 7.

Global brain activity and its coupling with cerebrospinal fluid flow is related 
to tau pathology.

Han F(1), Lee J(1), Chen X(1)(2), Ziontz J(1), Ward T(1), Landau SM(1), Baker 
SL(2), Harrison TM(1), Jagust WJ(1)(2); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of California, Berkeley, California, 
USA.
(2)Department of Cellular and Tissue Imaging, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, California, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2023 Sep 13:2023.09.12.557492. doi: 10.1101/2023.09.12.557492.

INTRODUCTION: Factors responsible for the deposition of pathological tau in the 
brain are incompletely understood. This study links macroscale tau deposition in 
the human brain to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow dynamics using resting-state 
functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI).
METHODS: Low-frequency (< 0.1 Hz) resting-state global brain activity is coupled 
with CSF flow and potentially reflects CSF dynamics-related clearance. We 
examined the correlation between rsfMRI measures of CSF inflow and global 
activity (gBOLD-CSF coupling) as a predictor, interacting with amyloid beta 
(Aβ), of tau and cortical thickness (dependent variables) across Alzheimer's 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) participants from cognitively unimpaired 
through mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD).
RESULTS: Tau deposition in Aβ+ participants, accompanied by cortical thinning 
and cognitive decline, is associated with decreased gBOLD-CSF coupling. Tau 
mediates the relationship between coupling and thickness.
DISCUSSION: Findings suggest that resting-state global brain activity and CSF 
movements comodulate Alzheimer's tau deposition, presumably related to CSF 
clearance.
HIGHLIGHTS: A non-invasive functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) 
assessment of a CSF clearance-related process is carried out. Global brain 
activity is coupled with CSF inflow in human fMRI during resting state. Global 
fMRI-CSF coupling is correlated with tau in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This 
coupling measure is also associated with cortical thickness, mediated by tau.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14296
PMCID: PMC11667553
PMID: 39508716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: W.J.J. has served as a consultant for Biogen, 
Eisai, Clario, and Lilly. The remaining authors declare no competing financial 
interests. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


50. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2024 Sep;113(8):187-194. doi:
10.23785/PRAXIS.2024.08.003.

[The Swiss Memory Clinics recommendations for the treatment of dementia].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Klöppel S(1)(2), Meyer-Heim T(3)(4), Ehrensperger M(5)(4), Rüttimann A(6), 
Weibel I(7), Schnelli A(8), Frehner D(9)(10), Mittaz Hager AG(9)(10), Hasler 
F(11), Fuchsberger Y(11), Haag F(12), Roth-Sutter R(13), Röker M(14), Wirz 
F(14)(13), Popp J(1)(4), Becker S(15), Choudery E(12)(16), Felbecker A(4)(17).

Author information:
(1)Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Alterspsychiatrie (SGAP).
(2)stefan.kloeppel@upd.ch.
(3)Schweizerische Fachgesellschaft für Geriatrie (SFGG).
(4)Swiss Memory Clinics (SMC).
(5)Schweizerische Vereinigung der Neuropsychologinnen und Neuropsychologen 
(SVNP).
(6)KZU-Kompetenzzentrum Pflege und Gesundheit.
(7)Spitex Embrachertal.
(8)Genossenschaft Alterszentrum Kreuzlingen, Leitung Pflegeentwicklung.
(9)Physioswiss.
(10)GERONTOLOGIE CH Fachbereich Physiotherapie.
(11)Ergotherapie-Verband Schweiz (EVS).
(12)Konferenz der Schweizerischen Berufsverbände der Logopädinnen und Logopäden 
(K/SBL).
(13)Zentrum für medizinische Bildung Bern (medi).
(14)Schweizerischer Verband der Aktivierungsfachpersonen (SVAT).
(15)Alzheimer Schweiz.
(16)Schweizerische Arbeitsgemeinschaft für Logopädie.
(17)Schweizerische Neurologische Gesellschaft (SNG).

Publisher: TITEL: Die Empfehlungen der Swiss Memory Clinics für die Therapie der 
Demenzerkrankungen.
EINLEITUNG: Swiss Memory Clinics hat auf die Schweiz zugeschnittene 
Therapieempfehlungen für die Demenzerkrankungen formuliert und eine breite 
Vernehmlassung sicher gestellt. Zielgruppe ist insbesondere die 
Primärversorgung. Da die Antikörpertherapien noch nicht zugelassen sind, liegt 
das Augenmerk auf nicht-medikamentösen Therapien und der Integrierung eines 
Case-Managements. Die Autoren sehen auch für die Schweiz die Gefahr, dass 
Kostendruck und Fachkräftemangel die Umsetzung der Best-Practice Vorgaben 
erheblich erschweren. Schlüsselwörter: Swiss Memory Clinics, Demenz, 
Primärversorgung, Case Management, Best Practice.

Publisher: TITRE: Recommandations de Swiss Memory Clinics pour le traitement des 
troubles cognitifs.
INTRODUCTION: Swiss Memory Clinics a formulé des recommandations thérapeutiques 
adaptées à la Suisse pour les maladies de démence et a assuré une large 
consultation. Le groupe cible est notamment les soins primaires. Les thérapies à 
base d‘anticorps n‘étant pas encore autorisées, l‘accent est mis sur les 
thérapies non médicamenteuses et l‘intégration d‘une gestion de cas. Les auteurs 
estiment que la pression des coûts et le manque de personnel qualifié risquent 
de compliquer considérablement la mise en œuvre des bonnes pratiques en Suisse 
également. Mots-clés: Swiss Memory Clinics, Démence, Soins primaires, Case 
Management, Best Practice.

© 2024 Aerzteverlag medinfo AG.

DOI: 10.23785/PRAXIS.2024.08.003
PMID: 39508540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Die Autorinnen und Autoren dieser Publikation 
haben alle relevanten Informationen über mögliche Interessenskonflikte 
offengelegt. Sollten Sie weitere Informationen zu diesem Thema wünschen, wenden 
Sie sich bitte an die Geschäftsstelle unter: info@swissmemoryclinics.ch


51. Ann Hum Biol. 2024 Feb;51(1):2415035. doi: 10.1080/03014460.2024.2415035.
Epub  2024 Nov 7.

Exploring biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease based on multi-omics and Mendelian 
randomisation analysis.

Tu K(1), Zhou W(1), Kong S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Xianning Central Hospital, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Hubei University of Science and Technology, Hubei, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible neurodegenerative 
disorder with no fully curative treatment.
AIM: This study aims to identify effective biomarkers for AD diagnosis and 
treatment by combining multi-omics and Mendelian randomisation (MR) analyses.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Positron emission tomography (PET), single nucleotide 
polymorphism (SNP), and gene expression data of AD patients using advanced 
correlation analysis methods (AdaSMCCA, rAdaSMCCA, and unAdaSMCCA algorithms) 
are integrated.
RESULTS: Several regions of interest, risk SNP sites, and risk genes associated 
with AD are identified. Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) for the top 
100 risk genes are retrieved from public datasets. A two-sample MR analysis 
using genome-wide association study (GWAS) data reveals two genes (FAM117A and 
ACSL1) causally related to AD. Additionally, single-cell transcriptome 
(scRNA-seq) data from AD samples are analysed to identify high-scoring cell 
clusters and their interactions.
CONCLUSIONS: The identified multi-omics biomarkers and genes causally related to 
AD could inform clinical diagnosis and treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/03014460.2024.2415035
PMID: 39508514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Extracell Vesicles. 2024 Nov;13(11):e70011. doi: 10.1002/jev2.70011.

Efficient enzyme-free isolation of brain-derived extracellular vesicles.

Matamoros-Angles A(1), Karadjuzovic E(1), Mohammadi B(1), Song F(1), Brenna 
S(2), Meister SC(1), Siebels B(3), Voß H(3), Seuring C(4)(5)(6), Ferrer I(7), 
Schlüter H(3), Kneussel M(8), Altmeppen HC(1), Schweizer M(9), Puig B(2), Shafiq 
M(1), Glatzel M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuropathology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf 
(UKE), Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Neurology, Experimental Research in Stroke and Inflammation 
(ERSI), University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Section Mass Spectrometry and Proteomics, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Multi-User-CryoEM-Facility, Centre for Structural Systems Biology (CSSB), 
Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Chemistry, Universität Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.
(6)Leibniz Institute of Virology (LIV), Hamburg, Germany.
(7)IDIBELL, University of Barcelona, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Spain.
(8)Institute for Molecular Neurogenetics, Center for Molecular Neurobiology 
Hamburg (ZMNH), University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg, 
Germany.
(9)Electron Microscopy Core Facility, Center for Molecular Neurobiology (ZMNH), 
University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg, Germany.

Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have gained significant attention as pathology 
mediators and potential diagnostic tools for neurodegenerative diseases. 
However, isolation of brain-derived EVs (BDEVs) from tissue remains challenging, 
often involving enzymatic digestion steps that may compromise the integrity of 
EV proteins and overall functionality. Here, we describe that collagenase 
digestion, commonly used for BDEV isolation, produces undesired protein cleavage 
of EV-associated proteins in brain tissue homogenates and cell-derived EVs. In 
order to avoid this effect, we studied the possibility of isolating BDEVs with a 
reduced amount of collagenase or without any protease. Characterization of the 
isolated BDEVs from mouse and human samples (both female and male) revealed 
their characteristic morphology and size distribution with both approaches. 
However, we show that even minor enzymatic digestion induces 'artificial' 
proteolytic processing in key BDEV markers, such as Flotillin-1, CD81, and the 
cellular prion protein (PrPC), whereas avoiding enzymatic treatment completely 
preserves their integrity. We found no major differences in mRNA and protein 
content between non-enzymatically and enzymatically isolated BDEVs, suggesting 
that the same BDEV populations are purified with both approaches. Intriguingly, 
the lack of Golgi marker GM130 signal, often referred to as contamination 
indicator (or negative marker) in EV preparations, seems to result from 
enzymatic digestion rather than from its actual absence in BDEV samples. 
Overall, we show that non-enzymatic isolation of EVs from brain tissue is 
possible and avoids artificial pruning of proteins while achieving an overall 
high BDEV yield and purity. This protocol will help to understand the functions 
of BDEV and their associated proteins in a near-physiological setting, thus 
opening new research approaches.

© 2024 The Author(s). Journal of Extracellular Vesicles published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.

DOI: 10.1002/jev2.70011
PMCID: PMC11541858
PMID: 39508423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


53. Anal Methods. 2024 Dec 5;16(47):8080-8102. doi: 10.1039/d4ay01205d.

New perspective on central nervous system disorders: focus on mass spectrometry 
imaging.

Lai H(1)(2), Fan P(1), Wang H(3), Wang Z(2), Chen N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Science and Technology Innovation Center, Guangzhou University of Chinese 
Medicine, Guangzhou 510405, Guangdong, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Functions of Natural 
Medicines, Institute of Materia Medica & Neuroscience Center, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, China. 
wangzz@imm.ac.cn.
(3)Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Hunan Engineering Technology Center of 
Standardization and Function of Chinese Herbal Decoction Pieces, Changsha 
410208, Hunan, China.

An abnormally organized brain spatial network is linked to the development of 
various central nervous system (CNS) disorders, including neurodegenerative 
diseases and neuropsychiatric disorders. However, the complicated molecular 
mechanisms of these diseases remain unresolved, making the development of 
treatment strategies difficult. A novel molecular imaging technique, called mass 
spectrometry imaging (MSI), captures molecular information on the surface of 
samples in situ. With MSI, multiple compounds can be simultaneously visualized 
in a single experiment. The high spatial resolution enables the simultaneous 
visualization of the spatial distribution and relative content of various 
compounds. The wide application of MSI in biomedicine has facilitated extensive 
studies on CNS disorders in recent years. This review provides a concise 
overview of the processes, applications, advantages, and disadvantages, as well 
as mechanisms of the main types of MSI. Meanwhile, this review summarizes the 
main applications of MSI in studying CNS diseases, including Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), CNS tumors, stroke, depression, Huntington's disease (HD), and Parkinson's 
disease (PD). Finally, this review comprehensively discusses the synergistic 
application of MSI with other advanced imaging modalities, its utilization in 
organoid models, its integration with spatial omics techniques, and provides an 
outlook on its future potential in single-cell analysis.

DOI: 10.1039/d4ay01205d
PMID: 39508396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):8969-8978. doi: 10.1002/alz.14192. Epub
2024  Nov 7.

Technology that CARES: Enhancing dementia care through everyday technologies.

Kiselica AM(1), Hermann GE(1), Scullin MK(2), Benge JF(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology & Neuroscience, Baylor University, Waco, Texas, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology and Mulva Clinic for the Neurosciences, University of 
Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas, USA.

"Everyday technologies" have long been suggested as digital tools to improve 
life for and enhance care of persons with Alzheimer's disease and related 
dementias (ADRD). Within this realm, there is a need to balance potential 
drawbacks of technologies with their ability to positively impact patient and 
care partner centered outcomes. To facilitate this goal, we endeavored to 
provide a common language and conceptual structure to understand digital 
technology use in ADRD care. Specifically, we describe the pathways by which 
researchers might develop and deploy technology, including via Cognitive 
offloading, Automation, Remote monitoring, Emotional/social support, and Symptom 
treatment (CARES). In addition, we highlight emerging issues in technology-based 
care research and provide relevant caveats regarding application of digital 
technologies in the real world. This discussion provides a framework to organize 
science on the application of technologies to ADRD care in the future. 
HIGHLIGHTS: "Everyday technologies" have long been suggested as digital tools to 
improve life for and enhance care of persons with Alzheimer's disease and 
related dementias (ADRD). However, the potential benefits of digital 
technologies must be balanced against their possible drawbacks. We describe the 
pathways by which researchers might develop and deploy technology that CARES, 
including via Cognitive offloading, Automation, Remote monitoring, 
Emotional/social support, and Symptom treatment. This discussion provides a 
framework to organize science on the application of digital technologies to ADRD 
care in the future.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14192
PMCID: PMC11667529
PMID: 39508340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


55. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2024 Nov;30(11):e70101. doi: 10.1111/cns.70101.

Prevention and Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease Via the Regulation of the Gut 
Microbiota With Traditional Chinese Medicine.

Long J(1), Zhang J(2), Zeng X(1), Wang M(3), Wang N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Dongfang Hospital Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is caused by a variety of factors, and one of the most 
important factors is gut microbiota dysbiosis. An imbalance in the gut 
mincrobiota have been shown to change the concentrations of lipopolysaccharide 
and short-chain fatty acids. These microorganisms synthesize substances that can 
influence the levels of a variety of metabolites and cause multiple diseases 
through the immune response, fatty acid metabolism, and amino acid metabolism 
pathways. Furthermore, these metabolic changes promote the formation of 
β-amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Thus, the microbiota-gut-brain 
axis plays an important role in AD development. In addition to traditional 
therapeutic drugs such as donepezil and memantine, traditional Chinese medicines 
(TCMs) have also showed to significantly decrease the severity of AD symptoms 
and suppress the underlying related mechanisms. We searched for studies on the 
effects of different herbal monomers, single herbs, and polyherbal formulas on 
the gut microbiota of AD patients and identified the relevant pathways through 
which the gut microbiota affected AD. We conclude that improvements in the gut 
microbiota not only decrease the occurrence of inflammatory reactions but also 
reduce the deposition of central pathological products. Herbal monomers have a 
stronger effect on improving of central pathology. Polyherbal formulas have the 
most extensive effect on the gut microbiota in patients with AD. Among the 
effects of formulas, the anti-inflammatory effect is the most essential and is 
also the main concern regarding the use of TCMs in treating AD from the 
viewpoint of the gut microbiota. We hope that this review will be helpful for 
providing new ideas for the clinical application of TCMs in the treatment of AD.

© 2024 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.70101
PMCID: PMC11541599
PMID: 39508315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


56. Vet World. 2024 Sep;17(9):1972-1982. doi: 10.14202/vetworld.2024.1972-1982.
Epub  2024 Sep 1.

Neuroprotective effects of Paederia foetida Linn. on scopolamine-induced 
cognitive impairment in rats.

Pakaprot N(1), Khamphaya T(2), Kwankaew P(3), Ninsuwan S(3), Laisunthad S(3), 
Thonoi K(3), Kuraeiad S(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol 
University, Srisavarindhira Bldg., 13 Floor, Wanglang Road, Siriraj Subdistrict, 
Bangkoknoi District, Bangkok, 10700, Thailand.
(2)Department of Occupational Health and Safety, School of Public Health, 
Walailak University, Nakhon Si Thammarat, 80160, Thailand.
(3)Department of Medical Technology, School of Allied Health Sciences, Walailak 
University, Nakhon Si Thammarat, 80160, Thailand.
(4)Research Center in Tropical Pathobiology, Walailak University, Nakhon Si 
Thammarat, 80160, Thailand.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Alzheimer's disease (AD) poses a significant health-care 
challenge, often linked to cognitive decline caused by oxidative stress. This 
study investigated the potential neuroprotective effects of the Paederia foetida 
leaf extract (PFE) in rats that exhibited scopolamine-induced dementia mimicking 
AD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-two male rats were treated with either donepezil 
(0.5 mg/kg) or PFE at doses of 250, 500, and 1000 mg/kg for 14 days before and 
14 days after the beginning of Alzheimer's-like symptoms after 14 consecutive 
days of scopolamine administration. Behavioral tests, including the open-field 
test for locomotor activity and the Morris water maze task for learning and 
memory assessment, were conducted. Neuronal cell counts and biochemical assays 
were performed to further analyze outcomes.
RESULTS: All groups exhibited normal locomotor activity. The scopolamine group 
displayed longer escape latency times, reduced time in the target quadrant, 
decreased number of surviving neurons, and increased malondialdehyde and 
decreased glutathione levels compared with the control group. However, 
pre-treatment with 1000 mg/kg PFE notably mitigated the neurotoxic effects of 
scopolamine.
CONCLUSION: The neuroprotective properties of PFE are highlighted, suggesting 
its potential as a promising treatment strategy for AD.

Copyright: © Pakaprot, et al.

DOI: 10.14202/vetworld.2024.1972-1982
PMCID: PMC11536741
PMID: 39507784

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


57. J Health Econ Outcomes Res. 2024 Oct 29;11(2):118-124. doi: 
10.36469/001c.124455. eCollection 2024.

Healthcare Resource Utilization Among Patients With Agitation in Alzheimer 
Dementia.

Teigland C(1), Pulungan Z(1), Bruhn D(2), Hwang S(2).

Author information:
(1)Inovalon Insights, Bowie, Maryland, USA.
(2)Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey, USA.

Background: Agitation in Alzheimer dementia is common, but the associated 
healthcare burden remains unclear. Objective: This retrospective analysis 
evaluated baseline characteristics, healthcare resource utilization, and costs 
among patients with agitation in Alzheimer dementia and those without agitation 
in Alzheimer dementia. Methods: Medicare beneficiaries from 100% of the Medicare 
Fee-for-Service claims database (2009-2016) with 2 or more claims 30 or more 
days apart for both Alzheimer's disease and dementia and continuous enrollment 
with medical/pharmacy coverage for 6 months before and 12 months after the index 
diagnosis were included. Patients with agitation in Alzheimer dementia were 
identified by 2 or more claims 14 or more days apart using International 
Classification of Diseases-9-CM/-10-CM codes based on the provisional 
International Psychogeriatric Association agitation definition. Patients with 
severe psychiatric disorders were excluded. Two cohorts of patients (with and 
without agitation) were then defined, and patient characteristics, healthcare 
resource utilization, and costs were compared in a descriptive exploratory 
analysis. Results: Of 2 684 704 Fee-for-Service patients with Alzheimer 
dementia, 769 141 met all inclusion criteria; among these, 281 042 (36.5%) had 
agitation. The mean age in patients with and without agitation in Alzheimer 
dementia was 83 years. Most patients in both groups were female, but the 
proportion of males was slightly higher in the agitation in Alzheimer dementia 
group (30.3% vs 28.2%, respectively). Patients with agitation in Alzheimer 
dementia were more likely than those without agitation in Alzheimer dementia to 
have lower socioeconomic status (dual eligibility for Medicaid, 45.0% vs 41.7%, 
respectively) or be disabled (10.5% vs 9.4%). Overall, healthcare costs were 
higher in the agitation in Alzheimer dementia population compared with those 
without agitation in Alzheimer dementia (mean cost PPPY, 32 322and 30 121, 
respectively), with the largest differences observed in inpatient and post-acute 
care costs. Conclusions: These exploratory findings underscore the substantial 
economic burden of agitation in Alzheimer dementia and highlight the need for 
treatment options for the agitation in Alzheimer dementia population to improve 
associated health outcomes.

DOI: 10.36469/001c.124455
PMCID: PMC11539929
PMID: 39507604

Conflict of interest statement: C.T. and Z.P. report no conflicts of interest. 
D.B. and S.H. are employees of Otsuka Pharmaceuticals. This study was funded by 
Avanir Pharmaceuticals and conducted independently by Inovalon.


58. Aging Med (Milton). 2024 Oct 13;7(5):559-570. doi: 10.1002/agm2.12361. 
eCollection 2024 Oct.

Curcumin inhibits oxidative stress and autophagy in C17.2 neural stem cell 
through ERK1/2 signaling pathways.

Ruan Y(1), Luo H(2), Tang J(3), Ji M(2), Yu D(1), Yu Q(2), Cao Z(3), Mai Y(2), 
Zhang B(4), Chen Y(1), Liu J(2), Liao W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, The Second Affiliated Hospital Guangzhou 
Medical University Guangzhou Guangdong China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital Guangzhou Medical 
University Guangzhou Guangdong China.
(3)Department of Neurology Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital of Sun Yat-sen 
University Guangdong China.
(4)Department of Neurology The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong 
Pharmaceutical University Guangzhou China.

OBJECTIVES: This study investigates curcumin's neuroprotective role and its 
potential in promoting neurogenesis in progenitor cells within the brain. 
Notably, curcumin's antioxidant properties have been implicated in Alzheimer's 
disease treatment. However, the association between curcumin's antioxidative 
effects and its impact on neural stem cells (NSCs) remains to be elucidated.
METHODS: C17.2 neural stem cells were utilized as a model to simulate oxidative 
stress, induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). We quantified the levels of 
superoxide dismutase (SOD), malondialdehyde (MDA), and intracellular reactive 
oxygen species (ROS), alongside the gene expression of SOD1 and SOD2, to assess 
intracellular oxidative stress. Additionally, Western blot analysis was 
conducted to measure the expressions of LC3-II, Beclin-1, and phosphorylated ERK 
(p-ERK), thereby evaluating autophagy and ERK signaling pathway activation.
RESULTS: Treatment with curcumin resulted in a reduction of MDA and ROS levels, 
suggesting a protective effect on NSCs against oxidative damage induced by H2O2. 
Furthermore, a decrease in the relative expressions of LC3-II, Beclin-1, and 
p-ERK was observed post-curcumin treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that curcumin may confer protection against 
oxidative stress by attenuating autophagy and deactivating the ERK1/2 signaling 
pathways, which could contribute to therapeutic strategies for Alzheimer's 
disease.

© 2024 The Author(s). Aging Medicine published by Beijing Hospital and John 
Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/agm2.12361
PMCID: PMC11535172
PMID: 39507234

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this paper.


59. Front Aging Neurosci. 2024 Oct 23;16:1456525. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2024.1456525.  eCollection 2024.

Hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, thyroid stimulating hormone, and dementia risk: 
results from the NHANES 2011-2012 and Mendelian randomization analysis.

Sheng X(1), Gao J(1), Chen K(1), Zhu X(1), Wang Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hangzhou TCM Hospital Affiliated to Zhejiang Chinese 
Medical University, Hangzhou Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Hangzhou, 
China.
(2)Department of Acupuncture Rehabilitation, Hangzhou TCM Hospital Affiliated to 
Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Hangzhou, China.

INTRODUCTION: As the world ages, dementia places a heavy burden on society and 
the economy, but current methods of diagnosing dementia are still limited and 
there are no better therapies that target the causes of dementia. The purpose of 
this work is to explore the relationship between thyroid disease, thyroid 
stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations, free tetraiodothyronine (FT4) 
concentrations and cognitive function.
METHODS: This study utilized cognitive function and thyroid data from the 
2011-2012 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) to assess 
the relationship between different groups of TSH and FT4 concentrations and 
cognitive function using weighted logistic regression and restricted cubic 
spline (RCS), and then used two-sample Mendelian Randomization (MR) to assess 
the causal relationship between hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, TSH and FT4 
concentrations with dementia.
RESULTS: Our analysis of the 2011-2012 NHANES data showed that the individuals 
with low TSH concentrations had higher Alzheimer's Disease Word List Registry 
Consortium1 (CERAD1) and CERAD.delay.recall scores than individuals with high 
TSH concentrations, and individuals with low FT4 concentrations had higher 
CERAD3 and Animal Fluency Test scores than individuals with high FT4 
concentrations. Our results also showed a non-linear relationship between serum 
TSH and FT4 concentrations and the Animal Fluency Test. The TSH concentrations 
within the range of 1.703 to 3.145 mIU/L exhibit a positive correlation with 
Animal Fluency Test, whereas concentrations outside this range are negatively 
correlated with Animal Fluency Test. The FT4 concentrations exhibited a positive 
correlation with Animal Fluency Test to the left of the FT4 concentrations 
inflection point (0.849 ng/L), whereas to the right of this inflection point, 
correlation was negative. MR analysis results further indicate that genetic 
predisposition to hyperthyroidism may be associated with a reduced risk of 
dementia and vascular dementia(VaD). Conversely, genetic predisposition to 
hypothyroidism appears to be linked with an increased risk of dementia and VaD. 
Additionally, genetic predisposition to elevated TSH concentrations may be 
correlated with a heightened risk of risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
CONCLUSION: This study provides evidence of a nonlinear relationship between TSH 
and FT4 concentrations and cognitive function, with hyperthyroidism decreasing 
the risk of dementia and VaD, hypothyroidism increasing the risk of dementia and 
VaD, and elevated serum TSH concentrations increasing the risk of AD. 
Furthermore, prioritizing early detection, diagnosis, and treatment through the 
assessment of thyroid function in individuals at high risk for developing 
dementia is of paramount importance. This strategy has the potential to 
significantly contribute to the prevention and deceleration of dementia 
progression.

Copyright © 2024 Sheng, Gao, Chen, Zhu and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1456525
PMCID: PMC11538144
PMID: 39507203

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


60. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2024 Oct 23;15:1448119. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2024.1448119. eCollection 2024.

Deciphering the role of lipid metabolism-related genes in Alzheimer's disease: a 
machine learning approach integrating Traditional Chinese Medicine.

Wu K(1), Liu Q(1), Long K(1), Duan X(1), Chen X(1), Zhang J(1), Li L(1), Li 
B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Hospital of Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents a progressive neurodegenerative 
disorder characterized by the accumulation of misfolded amyloid beta protein, 
leading to the formation of amyloid plaques and the aggregation of tau protein 
into neurofibrillary tangles within the cerebral cortex. The role of 
carbohydrates, particularly apolipoprotein E (ApoE), is pivotal in AD 
pathogenesis due to its involvement in lipid and cholesterol metabolism, and its 
status as a genetic predisposition factor for the disease. Despite its 
significance, the mechanistic contributions of Lipid Metabolism-related Genes 
(LMGs) to AD remain inadequately elucidated. This research endeavor seeks to 
bridge this gap by pinpointing biomarkers indicative of early-stage AD, with an 
emphasis on those linked to immune cell infiltration. To this end, advanced 
machine-learning algorithms and data derived from the Gene Expression Omnibus 
(GEO) database have been employed to facilitate the identification of these 
biomarkers.
METHODS: Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by comparing gene 
expression profiles between healthy individuals and Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
patients, using data from two Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets: GSE5281 
and GSE138260. Functional enrichment analysis was conducted to elucidate the 
biological relevance of the DEGs. To ensure the reliability of the results, 
samples were randomly divided into training and validation sets. The analysis 
focused on lipid metabolism-related DEGs (LMDEGs) to explore potential 
biomarkers for AD. Machine learning algorithms, including Support Vector 
Machine-Recursive Feature Elimination (SVM-RFE) and the Least Absolute Shrinkage 
and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression model, were applied to identify a key 
gene biomarker. Additionally, immune cell infiltration and its relationship with 
the gene biomarker were assessed using the CIBERSORT algorithm. The Integrated 
Traditional Chinese Medicine (ITCM) database was also referenced to identify 
Chinese medicines related to lipid metabolism and their possible connection to 
AD. This comprehensive strategy aims to integrate modern computational methods 
with traditional medicine to deepen our understanding of AD and its underlying 
mechanisms.
RESULTS: The study identified 137 genes from a pool of 751 lipid 
metabolism-related genes (LMGs) significantly associated with autophagy and 
immune response mechanisms. Through the application of LASSO and SVM-RFE 
machine-learning techniques, four genes-choline acetyl transferase (CHAT), 
member RAS oncogene family (RAB4A), acyl-CoA binding domain-containing protein 6 
(ACBD6), and alpha-galactosidase A (GLA)-emerged as potential biomarkers for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). These genes demonstrated strong therapeutic potential 
due to their involvement in critical biological pathways. Notably, nine Chinese 
medicine compounds were identified to target these marker genes, offering a 
novel treatment approach for AD. Further, ceRNA network analysis revealed 
complex regulatory interactions involving these genes, underscoring their 
importance in AD pathology. CIBERSORT analysis highlighted a potential link 
between changes in the immune microenvironment and CHAT expression levels in AD 
patients, providing new insights into the immunological dimensions of the 
disease.
CONCLUSION: The discovery of these gene markers offers substantial promise for 
the diagnosis and understanding of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, further 
investigation is necessary to validate their clinical utility. This study 
illuminates the role of Lipid Metabolism-related Genes (LMGs) in AD 
pathogenesis, offering potential targets for therapeutic intervention. It 
enhances our grasp of AD's complex mechanisms and paves the way for future 
research aimed at refining diagnostic and treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2024 Wu, Liu, Long, Duan, Chen, Zhang, Li and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2024.1448119
PMCID: PMC11538058
PMID: 39507054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.61. Heliyon. 2024 Oct 18;10(20):e39607. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39607. 
eCollection 2024 Oct 30.

Brain-targeting liposome-based APOE2 gene delivery exacerbates soluble amyloid-β 
accumulation in App (NL-G-F) mice.

Wang N(1), Parsons TM(1), Ren Y(2), Pan Y(3), Kurti A(1), Starling SC(1), 
Muolokwu C(4), Singh J(4), Kanekiyo T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, 32224, USA.
(2)Division of Clinical Trials and Biostatistics, Department of Quantitative 
Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, 32224, USA.
(3)Department of Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics, University of Florida 
College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL, 32611, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences School of Pharmacy, North Dakota State 
University, Fargo, ND, 58108, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of late-life dementia 
characterized by progressive neurodegeneration and brain deposition of amyloid-β 
(Aβ) and phosphorylated tau. The APOE ε2 encoding apolipoprotein E (APOE2) is a 
protective allele against AD among the three genotypes (APOE ε2, ε3, ε4), while 
APOE4 is the strongest genetic factor substantially increasing AD risk. APOE 
regulates brain lipid homeostasis and maintaining synaptic plasticity and 
neuronal function, where APOE2 has a superior function compared to APOE3 and 
APOE4. Gene therapy that increases APOE2 levels in the brain is, therefore, a 
promising therapeutic strategy for AD treatment. We previously reported that 
PEGylated liposomes conjugated with transferrin and a cell-penetrating peptide 
Penetratin sufficiently deliver chitosan-APOE2 cDNA plasmid complex into the 
brain of wild-type mice. Here, we investigated how brain-targeting 
liposome-based APOE2 gene delivery influences Aβ-related pathologies in amyloid 
model App NL-G-F knockin mice at 12-month-old. We found a trend of reductions of 
insoluble Aβ levels in the mouse cortices 1 month after APOE2 gene therapy. 
Furthermore, in the App NL-G-F knockin mice that received the APOE2 gene 
therapy, brain transcriptome analysis through RNA-sequencing identified the 
upregulation of genes/pathways related to neuronal development. This was 
supported by increases of Dlg4 and Syp mRNAs coding synaptic proteins in the 
experimental group. On the other hand, we found that APOE2 gene delivery 
increased soluble Aβ levels, including oligomers, as well as exacerbated neurite 
dystrophy and decreased synaptophysin. Together, our results suggest that 
brain-targeting liposome-based APOE2 gene therapy is potentially beneficial for 
synaptic formation at the transcriptional level. Forced APOE2 expressions, 
however, may exacerbate Aβ toxicity by increasing the dissociation of Aβ 
oligomers from aggregates in the presence of considerable amyloid burden.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39607
PMCID: PMC11538761
PMID: 39506961

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


62. Heliyon. 2024 Oct 18;10(20):e39157. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39157. 
eCollection 2024 Oct 30.

Genetic variability of incretin receptors affects the occurrence of 
neurodegenerative diseases and their characteristics.

Vogrinc D(1), Redenšek Trampuž S(1), Blagus T(1), Trošt M(2)(3), Gregorič 
Kramberger M(2)(3)(4), Emeršič A(2), Čučnik S(2)(5)(6), Goričar K(1), Dolžan 
V(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacogenetics Laboratory, Institute of Biochemistry and Molecular 
Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, Vrazov trg 2, 1000, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(2)Department of Neurology, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, Zaloška cesta 
2, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(4)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, 
Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Alfred Nobels allé 23, 141 52, Huddinge, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Rheumatology, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, 1000, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(6)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Ljubljana, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are the most 
common neurodegenerative diseases. Their treatment options are rather limited, 
and no neuroprotective or disease-modifying treatments are available. 
Anti-diabetic drugs, such as glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and 
glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) agonists, have been suggested 
as a potential therapeutic option.
AIMS: Assess GLP1R and GIPR genetic variability in relation to AD- and 
PD-related phenotypes.
METHODS: AD, PD patients and healthy control subjects were included in the 
study. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease were measured 
in AD patients, while cognitive impairment was evaluated in PD. All participants 
were genotyped for three SNPs: GLP1R rs10305420, GLP1R rs6923761 and GIPR 
rs1800437.
RESULTS: GLP1R rs10305420 genotypes were associated with increased odds for AD 
and PD development. GLP1R rs10305420 and GLP1R rs6923761 genotypes were 
significantly associated with Aβ42/40 ratio (p = 0.041 and p = 0.050), while 
GLP1R rs6923761 was also associated with p-tau levels (p = 0.022). Finally, GIPR 
rs1800437 heterozygotes as well as carriers of at least one GIPR rs1800437 C 
allele presented with increased odds for the development of dementia in PD 
(OR = 1.92; 95 % CI = 1.05-3.51; p = 0.034 and OR = 1.95; 95 % CI = 1.08-3.52; 
p = 0.027, respectively).
CONCLUSION: GLP1R and GIPR genetic variability may affect the occurrence of AD 
and PD and is also associated with AD CSF biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease and 
dementia in PD. The data on GLP1R and GIPR genetic variability may support the 
function of incretin receptors in neurodegeneration.

© 2024 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39157
PMCID: PMC11538737
PMID: 39506938

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following financial 
interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing 
interests:Vita Dolzan reports financial support was provided by Javna Agencija 
za Raziskovalno Dejavnost republike Slovenije. Vita Dolzan reports a 
relationship with 10.13039/501100004329Javna Agencija za Raziskovalno Dejavnost 
RS that includes: funding grants. If there are other authors, they declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


63. J Nanobiotechnology. 2024 Nov 7;22(1):682. doi: 10.1186/s12951-024-02963-x.

Tetrahedral framework nucleic acids inhibit Aβ-mediated ferroptosis and 
ameliorate cognitive and synaptic impairments in Alzheimer's disease.

Tan L(#)(1)(2), Xie J(#)(3), Liao C(#)(1), Li X(4), Zhang W(1), Cai C(5), Cheng 
L(6), Wang X(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China.
(2)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, The Central Hospital of 
Wuhan, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 
Wuhan, 430014, China.
(3)Precision Medical Center, Wuhan Children's Hospital (Wuhan Maternal and Child 
Healthcare Hospital), Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan, 430015, China.
(4)Clinic Center of Human Gene Research, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430022, China.
(5)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, The Central Hospital of 
Wuhan, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 
Wuhan, 430014, China. changccai@126.com.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China. 
chengliming2015@163.com.
(7)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China. 
wangxiong@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Ferroptosis represents a nonapoptotic type of programmed cell death 
induced by excessive intracellular iron accumulation. Ferroptosis is an 
essential driver of the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Tetrahedral 
framework nucleic acids (tFNAs) are a novel type of nanoparticle with superior 
antiapoptotic capacity and excellent biocompatibility. However, the effect of 
tFNAs on Aβ triggered ferroptosis, cognitive and synaptic impairments in AD 
remains unknown.
METHODS: N2a cells were treated with Aβ combined with/without tFNAs. Cell 
viability and levels of Fe2+, lipid peroxidation, MDA, LDH, and GSH were 
examined. RNA sequencing was applied to explore dysregulated ferroptosis related 
genes. Seven-month-old APP/PS1 mice were intranasally administrated with tFNAs 
for two weeks. Fluorescence imaging was used to detect the tFNAs distribution in 
the brain. Novel object recognition (NOR) test followed by Morris water maze 
(MWM) was used to test the learning and memory performance of mice. Golgi 
staining, Western blot, and immunofluorescence staining were used to examine 
synaptic plasticity.
RESULTS: tFNAs promoted cell viability and GSH levels, reduced the levels of 
Fe2+, lipid peroxidation, MDA, and LDH in N2a cells treated with Aβ. RNA 
sequencing revealed that tFNAs reversed the promotive effect of Aβ on 
ferroptosis driver Atf3 gene and suppressive effect on ferroptosis suppressors 
Rrm2 and Furin genes. Fluorescence imaging confirmed the brain infiltration of 
tFNAs. tFNAs rescued synaptic and memory impairments, and ferroptosis in 
seven-month-old APP/PS1 mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, tFNAs inhibited Aβ-mediated ferroptosis and 
ameliorated cognitive and synaptic impairments in AD mice. tFNAs may serve as 
novel option to deal with AD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12951-024-02963-x
PMCID: PMC11542373
PMID: 39506721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


64. Arch Pharm (Weinheim). 2025 Jan;358(1):e2400748. doi: 10.1002/ardp.202400748.
 Epub 2024 Nov 6.

Unveiling tomorrow: Carbonic anhydrase activators and inhibitors pioneering new 
frontiers in Alzheimer's disease.

Mishra KA(1), Sethi KK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER) Guwahati, Guwahati, Assam, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder and a principal basis 
of dementia in the elderly population globally. Recently, human carbonic 
anhydrases (hCAs, EC 4.2.1.1) were demonstrated as possible new targets for 
treating AD. hCAs are vital for maintaining pH balance and performing other 
physiological processes as they catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon 
dioxide to bicarbonate and a proton. Current research indicates that hCA plays a 
role in brain functions critical for transmitting neural signals. Activation of 
carbonic anhydrase (CA) has emerged as a promising avenue in addressing memory 
loss and cognitive issues. Conversely, the exploration of CA inhibition 
represents a novel frontier in this field. By enhancing glial fitness and 
cerebrovascular health and blocking amyloid-β (Aβ)-induced mitochondrial 
dysfunction pathways, cytochrome C (CytC) release, caspase 9 activation, and 
H2O2 generation in neurons, CA inhibitors improve cognition and lessen the 
pathology caused by Aβ. Recent research has pushed hCAs into the spotlight as 
critical players in AD pathogenesis and precise therapeutic targets. The 
captivating dilemma of choosing between hCA inhibitors and activators looms 
large, as inhibitors reduce Aβ aggregation and improve cerebral blood flow, 
while activators enhance cerebrovascular functions and restore pH balance. The 
current review sheds light on the clinical evidence for hCAs and the roles of 
inhibitors and activators in AD. Additionally, this review offers a fascinating 
outlook on the data that may aid medicinal chemists in designing and developing 
new leads that are more effective and selective for upcoming in vitro and in 
vivo studies, allowing for the discovery and introduction of novel drug 
candidates for the treatment of AD to the market and into the clinical pipeline.

© 2024 Deutsche Pharmazeutische Gesellschaft.

DOI: 10.1002/ardp.202400748
PMID: 39506506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2024;21(6):437-455. doi: 
10.2174/0115672050338777241028071955.

Identifying the Role of Oligodendrocyte Genes in the Diagnosis of Alzheimer's 
Disease through Machine Learning and Bioinformatics Analysis.

Yan C(1), Chen L(1), Yinhui Y(1)(2), Yazhen S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengde Medical University / Hebei 
Province Key Research Office of Traditional Chinese Medicine Against Dementia / 
Hebei Province Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Research and 
Development / Hebei Key Laboratory of Nerve Injury and Repair, Chengde, 067000, 
P.R. China.
(2)Faculty of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Hebei 
University of Chinese Medicine, Shijiazhuang, P.R. China.

BACKGROUND: Due to the heterogeneity of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the underlying 
pathogenic mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. Oligodendrocyte (OL) 
damage and myelin degeneration are prevalent features of AD pathology. When 
oligodendrocytes are subjected to amyloid-beta (Aβ) toxicity, this damage 
compromises the structural integrity of myelin and results in a reduction of 
myelin-associated proteins. Consequently, the impairment of myelin integrity 
leads to a slowdown or cessation of nerve signal transmission, ultimately 
contributing to cognitive dysfunction and the progression of AD. Consequently, 
elucidating the relationship between oligodendrocytes and AD from the 
perspective of oligodendrocytes is instrumental in advancing our understanding 
of the pathogenesis of AD.
OBJECTIVE: Here, an attempt is made in this study to identify 
oligodendrocyte-related biomarkers of AD.
METHODS: AD datasets were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database and 
used for consensus clustering to identify subclasses. Hub genes were identified 
through differentially expressed genes (DEGs) analysis and oligodendrocyte gene 
set enrichment. Immune infiltration analysis was conducted using the CIBERSORT 
method. Signature genes were identified using machine learning algorithms and 
logistic regression. A diagnostic nomogram for predicting AD was developed and 
validated using external datasets and an AD model. A small molecular compound 
was identified using the eXtreme Sum algorithm.
RESULTS: 46 genes were found to be significantly correlated with AD progression 
by examining the overlap between DEGs and oligodendrocyte genes. Two subclasses 
of AD, Cluster A, and Cluster B, were identified, and 9 signature genes were 
identified using a machine learning algorithm to construct a nomogram. 
Enrichment analysis showed that 9 genes are involved in apoptosis and neuronal 
development. Immune infiltration analysis found differences in immune cell 
presence between AD patients and controls. External datasets and RT-qPCR 
verification showed variation in signature genes between AD patients and 
controls. Five small molecular compounds were predicted.
CONCLUSION: It was found that 9 oligodendrocyte genes can be used to create a 
diagnostic tool for AD, which could help in developing new treatments.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050338777241028071955
PMID: 39506420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 6;14(1):26949. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-78528-7.

40 Hz light preserves synaptic plasticity and mitochondrial function in 
Alzheimer's disease model.

Barzegar Behrooz A(1)(2)(3), Aghanoori MR(1)(4)(5), Nazari M(1)(6), Latifi-Navid 
H(2)(4)(7), Vosoughian F(1), Anjomani M(1), Lotfi J(8)(9), Ahmadiani A(1), 
Eliassi A(1)(2), Nabavizadeh F(2)(10), Soleimani E(1), Ghavami S(#)(11)(12)(13), 
Khodagholi F(#)(1), Fahanik-Babaei J(#)(14).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Electrophysiology Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Human Anatomy and Cell Science, College of Medicine, University 
of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.
(4)Department of Molecular Medicine, National Institute of Genetic Engineering 
and Biotechnology (NIGEB), Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Medical Genetics, Cumming School of Medicine, University of 
Calgary & Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute, Calgary, AB, T2N 4N1, 
Canada.
(6)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Arak University of Medical 
Sciences, Arak, Iran.
(7)School of Biological Sciences, Institute for Research in Fundamental Sciences 
(IPM), Tehran, Iran.
(8)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
(9)Growth and Development Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(10)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(11)Faculty of Medicine in Zabrze, University of Technology in Katowice, Zabrze, 
41-800, Poland.
(12)Research Institute of Oncology and Hematology, Cancer Care 
Manitoba-University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.
(13)Children Hospital Research Institute of Manitoba, University of Manitoba, 
Winnipeg, MB, Canada.
(14)Electrophysiology Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Fahanikbabaei1358@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent type of dementia. Its causes are 
not fully understood, but it is now known that factors like mitochondrial 
dysfunction, oxidative stress, and compromised ion channels contribute to its 
onset and progression. Flickering light therapy has shown promise in AD 
treatment, though its mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we used a rat 
model of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced AD to evaluate the effects of 40 Hz 
flickering light therapy. Rats received intracerebroventricular (ICV) STZ 
injections, and 7 days after, they were exposed to 40 Hz flickering light for 
15 min daily over seven days. Cognitive and memory functions were assessed using 
Morris water maze, novel object recognition, and passive avoidance tests. 
STZ-induced AD rats exhibited cognitive decline, elevated reactive oxygen 
species, amyloid beta accumulation, decreased serotonin and dopamine levels, and 
impaired mitochondrial function. However, light therapy prevented these effects, 
preserving cognitive function and synaptic plasticity. Additionally, flickering 
light restored mitochondrial metabolites and normalized ATP-insensitive 
mitochondrial calcium-sensitive potassium (mitoBKCa) channel activity, which was 
otherwise downregulated in AD rats. Our findings suggest that 40 Hz flickering 
light therapy could be a promising treatment for neurodegenerative disorders 
like AD by preserving synaptic and mitochondrial function.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-78528-7
PMCID: PMC11541745
PMID: 39506052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


67. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Apr;62(4):5095-5108. doi: 10.1007/s12035-024-04583-w.
Epub  2024 Nov 7.

Ginger Extract Improves Cognitive Dysfunction via Modulation of Gut 
Microbiota-Derived Short-Chain Fatty Acids in D-Galactose/Ovariectomy-Induced 
Alzheimer-Like Disease.

Zahedi E(1)(2), Naseri FM(3), Zamani E(4), Nikbakhtzadeh M(5), Rastegar T(6), 
Sanaeirad A(7), Sadr SS(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Electrophysiology Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. ezahedi@razi.tums.ac.ir.
(2)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. ezahedi@razi.tums.ac.ir.
(3)Physiology Department and Neurophysiology Research Center, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Science, Memorial University of 
Newfoundland, St. John's, NL, Canada.
(5)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(8)Electrophysiology Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. sadrshah@sina.tums.ac.ir.
(9)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. sadrshah@sina.tums.ac.ir.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia with complex causes 
and limited treatment options. Recent research has suggested a connection 
between the progression of AD and the activity of gut microbiota. Ginger, a 
plant known for its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and neuroprotective 
properties, has gained attention as a potential treatment for alleviating AD 
symptoms. In this study, we induced an AD model in female rats through 
ovariectomy and D-galactose injection and then investigated the protective 
effects of oral administration of ginger ethanolic extract. We assessed changes 
in short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), learning and memory abilities, 
neuroinflammatory markers in plasma, and the hippocampus, as well as 
histological changes in the intestine and hippocampus in sham-operated, 
diseased, and treatment groups. Oral administration of ginger ethanolic extract 
improved gut microbiota activity, increased SCFA levels, and enhanced the 
expression of tight junction proteins. Additionally, ginger extract reduced the 
concentrations of TNF-α and IL-1β in both plasma and the hippocampus. 
Furthermore, it significantly reduced cell death and amyloid plaque deposition 
in the hippocampal tissue. These physiological changes resulted in improved 
performance in learning and memory tasks in rats treated with ginger compared 
with the disease group. These findings provide compelling evidence for the 
beneficial effects of ginger on the gut-brain axis, leading to improvements in 
learning and memory through the reduction of neuroinflammation.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-024-04583-w
PMID: 39505806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: All procedures 
were conducted in accordance with the National Institutes of Health’s Guide for 
the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (NIH), and the study procedure was 
accepted by Tehran University of Medical Science’s ethics committee. Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Conflict 
of Interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


68. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2025 Mar;137(5-6):182-188. doi: 
10.1007/s00508-024-02466-7. Epub 2024 Nov 6.

Amyloid-beta antibody treatment in Alzheimer's disease : An update on recent 
data and outlook on implementation in clinical routine.

Stögmann E(1), Schmidt R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Gürtel 
18-20, 1090, Vienna, Austria. elisabeth.stoegmann@meduniwien.ac.at.
(2)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Graz, Auenbruggerplatz 22, 
8036, Graz, Austria.

Amyloid-beta (Aβ) antibody treatment has emerged as a promising approach for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), targeting the accumulation of Aβ plaques, 
which are a hallmark of the disease. This review provides an update on recent 
clinical trial data, highlighting the efficacy and safety of various antibodies 
targeting Aβ. Recent trials have demonstrated that certain Aβ antibodies can 
reduce amyloid plaques and slow cognitive decline in patients with early AD. Key 
findings from trials of drugs are discussed, including their mechanisms of 
action, dosing regimens, and observed side effects. The potential for Aβ 
antibody therapy to be integrated into routine clinical practice is also 
explored. While Aβ antibody therapy represents a significant advancement in AD 
treatment, ongoing research is needed to optimize their use and understand their 
long-term impact. This review underscores the importance of personalized 
medicine in AD and the need for continued innovation in therapeutic strategies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-024-02466-7
PMCID: PMC11926045
PMID: 39505779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: E. Stögmann received 
honoraria (lectures, advisory boards, consultations) from pharmaceutical 
companies: Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisc, Eisai, Novartis, Sanofi and Lilly. She 
held leadership or a fiduciary role in scientific societies (Austrian Alzheimer 
Association, the EAN scientific panel dementia). Her institution (Medical 
University of Vienna, Austria) received financial support for participation in 
clinical trials from Lundbeck, Biogen, Novo Nordisc and Roche Diagnostics. Her 
institution (Medical University of Vienna, Austria) received financial support 
by research grants for research in AD: Roche, Eisai, EU Horizon 2020 and the 
Austrian Alzheimer Association. R. Schmidt received honoraria (lectures, 
advisory boards, consultations) from pharmaceutical companies: Biogen, Roche, 
Eisai, Novartis, Pfizer, Lundbeck , Merz Austria. He held leadership or 
a fiduciary role in scientific societies (Austrian Alzheimer Association, the 
EAN scientific panel dementia, VasCog). His institution (Medical University of 
Graz, Austria) received financial support for participation in clinical trials 
from Lundbeck, Biogen, Novo Nordisc, Merz Austria, Pfizer, Novartis, Axon 
Neuroscience, Neuroscios. His institution (Medical University of Graz, Austria) 
received financial support by research grants for research in AD: Austrian 
Science Fund, Austrian Research Promotion Agency, National Institute of Health, 
USA, European Union Joint Programme-Neurodegenerative Disease Research, European 
Union-Era-Net Neuron and the Austrian Alzheimer Association.


69. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Feb 10;338(Pt 1):119016. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2024.119016.  Epub 2024 Nov 5.

Dengzhan Shengmai capsule ameliorates cognitive impairment via inhibiting ER 
stress in APP/PS1 mice.

Ma HH(1), Zheng JY(2), Qiu YH(3), Su S(4), Lu FM(5), Wu GL(6), Zhang SJ(7), Cai 
YF(8).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Syndrome, The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, 
510405, China; Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China; Department of 
Neurology, Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China. 
Electronic address: 20202110044@stu.gzucm.edu.cn.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Syndrome, The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, 
510405, China; Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China; Department of 
Neurology, Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China. 
Electronic address: zhengjiayi@gzucm.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China; Department of Neurology, 
Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China. Electronic 
address: 383664259@qq.com.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China; Department of Neurology, 
Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China. Electronic 
address: sushan@stu.gzucm.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China; Department of Neurology, 
Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Syndrome, The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, 
510405, China; Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
gliang_w@163.com.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Syndrome, The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, 
510405, China; Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China; Department of 
Neurology, Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China. 
Electronic address: shijiezhang@gzucm.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China; Department of Neurology, 
Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China. Electronic 
address: caiyefeng@126.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common type of 
neurodegenerative disease with the β-amyloid plaques (Aβ) deposition. 
Previously, Dengzhan Shengmai capsule (DZSM) has been shown to reduce the 
pathology associated with AD, but the underlying mechanism is unclear.
AIM OF STUDY: This study investigated the potential mechanisms of DZSM against 
AD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The six-month-old wild-type male mice and APP/PS1 double 
transgenic male mice were administered 0.9 % saline or DZSM for 8 weeks by 
gavage. Open field test, new object recognition test, and Morris Water maze test 
were used to assess spatial learning and memory. Aβ plaques in brains were 
visualized using ThT staining. Nissl staining, TUNEL staining, and Western blot 
analyses were used to detect the neuronal function and apoptosis level. The 
superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase assay kit (GSH-Px), and 
malondialdehyde (MDA) kits were performed to assess oxidative stress levels. 
Then, immunofluorescence and Western blot analysis were applied to evaluate ER 
stress pathway protein levels. Finally, HT22 cells were treated by Aβ1-42 with 
or without DZSM medicated serum. Cell viability was assessed using the CCK-8 
assay, and Western blot analysis was applied to evaluate ER stress pathway 
protein levels.
RESULTS: Open filed test, new object recognition test and Morris Water maze test 
showed that DZSM restored cognitive disorders in APP/PS1 mice. 
Immunohistochemistry and Thioflavin T staining results indicated that DZSM 
reduced Aβ plaques in the brain. Deeper and denser Nissl bodies were found in 
APP/PS1 mice after DZSM administration. Besides, APP/PS1 mice treated with DZSM 
showed a lower level of TUNEL and Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. DZSM improved the 
acetylcholine (ACh), choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), superoxide dismutase 
(SOD), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity while reducing 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and malondialdehyde (MDA) activity. In addition, the 
levels of ER stress pathway containing Phospho-PKR-like ER kinase (P-PERK), 
phosphorylate eukaryotic initiation factor 2 (P-eIF2α), activating transcription 
factor 4 (ATF4), glutamine-rich protein 1 (QRICH1), phosphorylate 
inositol-requiring protein 1α (P-IRE1α), the spliced form of X-box binding 
protein 1 (XBP1s), activating transcription factor-6 (ATF6) and C/EBP homologous 
binding protein (CHOP) were decreased by DZSM. CCK-8 results indicated that DZSM 
medicated serum played cytoprotective effects on Aβ1-42-induced HT22 cells. 
Western blot results suggested DZSM possibly inhibited ER stress pathways in 
Aβ1-42-induced HT22 cells.
CONCLUSION: The potential protective mechanism of DZSM on cognitive impairment 
in AD might be related to ER stress pathways.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.119016
PMID: 39505222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


70. Bioorg Chem. 2024 Dec;153:107912. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2024.107912. Epub
2024  Oct 23.

Therapeutic role of NLRP3 inflammasome inhibitors against Alzheimer's disease.

Tantra T(1), Rahaman T A A(1), Nandini(1), Chaudhary S(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Bioactive Heterocycles and Catalysis (BHC Lab), Department of 
Medicinal Chemistry, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and 
Research-Raebareli (Transit Campus), Bijnor-Sisendi Road, Near CRPF Base Camp, 
Sarojini Nagar, Lucknow 226002, India.
(2)Laboratory of Bioactive Heterocycles and Catalysis (BHC Lab), Department of 
Medicinal Chemistry, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and 
Research-Raebareli (Transit Campus), Bijnor-Sisendi Road, Near CRPF Base Camp, 
Sarojini Nagar, Lucknow 226002, India. Electronic address: 
schaudhary.chy@niperraebareli.edu.in.

The NLRP3 inflammasome is a multiprotein complex that plays a vital role in 
regulating inflammatory signaling and the innate immune system. Activation of 
NLRP3 by accumulation of Aβ leads to its oligomerization and the activation of 
caspase-1, resulting in the secretion of pro-cytokines such as IL-18 and IL-1β. 
These pro-cytokines can contribute to cognitive impairment and 
neurodegeneration. The activation of NLRP3 is associated with neuroinflammation 
in animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, the NLRP3 inflammasome 
is considered a potential therapeutic target for AD. Various natural and 
synthetic molecules have gained attention as NLRP3 inhibitors against AD. In 
this review, we will summarize the sources, chemical structures, synthesis, and 
biological activity of NLRP3 inhibitors as anti-Alzheimer's agents. 
Additionally, we will critically analyze the structure-activity relationship 
(SAR) of NLRP3 inhibitors. This detailed examination of the SAR-based 
investigation of NLRP3 inhibitors and their derivatives offers insights into the 
design and development of novel NLRP3 inhibitors as anti-Alzheimer's agents. It 
is expected that this review will assist researchers in developing innovative 
and effective NLRP3 inhibitors for the treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2024.107912
PMID: 39504636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


71. Brain. 2025 Apr 3;148(4):1316-1328. doi: 10.1093/brain/awae345.

Tau, synapse loss and gliosis progress in an Alzheimer's mouse model after 
amyloid-β immunotherapy.

Welikovitch LA(1)(2), Mate de Gerando A(1)(2), Khasnavis A(1), Bhavsar H(1), 
Meltzer JC(1), Buée L(3), Chibnik LB(4), Bussiere T(5), Hyman BT(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown, MA 
02129, USA.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Harvard University, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(3)University of Lille, Inserm, CHU Lille, Lille Neuroscience & Cognition Lille, 
F-59000 Lille, France.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(5)Research and Development, Biogen, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.

Preclinical studies assessing drugs for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are conducted 
in animal models that usually display only one neuropathological feature of AD, 
whereas patients present with a complex combination of comorbidities and 
neuropathologies. Importantly, it is well established that amyloid-β (Aβ) plaque 
and tau tangle accumulation interact in a phase-dependent manner, making it 
difficult to predict how targeting one might influence the other, as well as 
downstream degeneration. We developed a transgenic mouse model, APP/PS1xTau22, 
with progressive cortical Aβ deposition and hippocampal tau neurofibrillary 
inclusions, to investigate how both neuropathologies act jointly to bring about 
neural degeneration, synapse loss and glial phenotypes. We then assessed whether 
applying murine chimeric aducanumab, an anti-amyloid immunotherapy, could impact 
the synergistic relationship between amyloid and tau. Drug treatment resulted in 
a ∼70% reduction in Aβ deposition in hippocampal and cortical areas and produced 
a robust peri-plaque microglial and astrocytic response. Removing amyloid from 
the brain did not reverse or slow tau pathology or alter synapse loss. Our 
findings suggest that, once the interaction between amyloid and tau is set in 
motion, reducing plaque burden by Aβ immunotherapy may stimulate glial 
responses, but is insufficient to curb degenerative phenotypes in this model.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awae345
PMCID: PMC11967717
PMID: 39504519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: T.B. is an employee and shareholder of Biogen. 
B.T.H. has a family member who works at Novartis and owns stock in Novartis; he 
serves on the scientific advisory board of Dewpoint and owns stock; he serves on 
a scientific advisory board or is a consultant for AbbVie, Aprinoia, Avrobio, 
Biogen, BMS Cell Signaling, Genentech, Novartis, Seer, Takeda, the US Department 
of Justice, Vigil and Voyager; his laboratory is supported by sponsored research 
agreements with AbbVie, and research grants from the National Institutes of 
Health, Cure Alzheimer’s Fund and Tau Consortium.


72. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2024 Nov 4;57:e13587. doi: 10.1590/1414-431X2024e13587. 
eCollection 2024.

Neurocognitive effects of proanthocyanidin in Alzheimer's disease: a systematic 
review of preclinical evidence.

Reshma A(1), Subramanian A(1), Kumarasamy V(2), Tamilanban T(1)(3)(4)(5), Sekar 
M(6), Gan SH(6), Subramaniyan V(7), Wong LS(4), Rani NNIM(8), Wu YS(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, SRM College of Pharmacy, SRM Institute of Science 
and Technology, Kattankulathur, Chengalpattu, Tamilnadu, India.
(2)Department of Parasitology & Medical Entomology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Jalan Yaacob Latif, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Occupational Safety and Health, Faculty of Public Health, 
Universitas Airlangga, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(4)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, INTI International University, Nilai, 
Malaysia.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, MAHSA University, Bandar 
Saujana Putra, Selangor, Malaysia.
(6)School of Pharmacy, Monash University Malaysia, Bandar Sunway, Selangor, 
Malaysia.
(7)Department of Medical Sciences, School of Medical and Life Sciences, Sunway 
University, Bandar Sunway, Selangor, Malaysia.
(8)Faculty of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Royal College of Medicine Perak, 
Universiti Kuala Lumpur, Perak, Malaysia.
(9)Sunway Microbiome Centre & Department of Biological Sciences, School of 
Medical and Life Sciences, Sunway University, Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.

Cognitive disorders and dementia largely influence individual independence and 
orientation. Based on the Alzheimer's Disease International (ADI) estimation, 
approximately 75% of individuals with dementia are undiagnosed. In fact, in some 
low- and middle-income countries, the percentage is as high as 90%. In this 
systematic review, which is based on PRISMA guidelines, we aim to identify the 
mechanism of action of proanthocyanidin. Finding a natural product alternative 
as a potential nootropic can help increase the number of armamentariums against 
dementia and other cognitive impairments. In this preclinical research, we 
determined the effect of proanthocyanidins on Alzheimer's disease (AD) by 
searching electronic bibliographic databases like Scopus, Proquest, 
ScienceDirect, PubMed, and Google. There was no imposed time limit. However, the 
search was limited to only English articles. The review protocol is registered 
on PROSPERO as CRD42022356301. A population, intervention, control, and outcomes 
(PICO) technique was utilized for report inclusion, and all reports were 
assessed for risk of bias by using the SYRCLE's RoB tool. The article's 
bibliographic information, induction model, type of proanthocyanidins, animal 
strain/weight/age, and outcome measurements were acquired from ten papers and 
are reported here. Further analysis was validated and determined for the review. 
The included studies met the review's inclusion criteria and suggested that 
proanthocyanidins have a neurocognitive effect against AD. Additionally, the 
effectiveness of proanthocyanidins in reducing oxidative stress, 
acetylcholinesterase activity, amyloid beta, its efficacy in alleviating 
superoxide dismutase, cognitive properties, and in facilitating cholinergic 
transmission in various models of AD has been collectively observed in ten 
studies.

DOI: 10.1590/1414-431X2024e13587
PMCID: PMC11540257
PMID: 39504064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Genes Genomics. 2025 Jan;47(1):71-85. doi: 10.1007/s13258-024-01582-y. Epub
2024  Nov 6.

Analysis of key pathways and genes in nodal structure on rat skin surface using 
gene ontology and KEGG pathway.

Shin J(1), Park AY(1), Ju S(1), Lee H(1), Kang HW(1)(2), Han D(1)(3), Kim 
S(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Global Rare Disease Network, Professional Graduate School of 
Korean Medicine, Wonkwang University, 460 Iksan-daero, Iksan, 54538, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Department of Korean Neuropsychiatry, College of Korean Medicine, Wonkwang 
University, Iksan, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Global Health and Development, Hanyang University, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Institute for Global Rare Disease Network, Professional Graduate School of 
Korean Medicine, Wonkwang University, 460 Iksan-daero, Iksan, 54538, Republic of 
Korea. kscndl@naver.com.
(5)Research Center of Traditional Korean Medicine, Wonkwang University, Iksan, 
Republic of Korea. kscndl@naver.com.

BACKGROUND: We have previously reported anatomical, histological, and gene 
expression characteristics of the nodal structure of rat skin surface and 
suggested its potential as an acupuncture point. However, the specific 
characteristics of the interactions among the genes expressed in this structure 
remain unclear.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine gene expression changes by analyzing 
interaction networks of genes up-regulated in nodal structures and to explore 
relationships with acupuncture points.
METHODS: We investigated the relationship between the nodal structures and 
acupuncture points by analyzing the interactions of up-regulated genes, their 
Gene Ontology biological functions, and the characteristics of Kyoto 
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways. RNA-seq and STRING analysis provided 
comprehensive information on these gene groups.
RESULTS: Interactions between up-regulated genes in nodal structures were 
classified into three groups. The first group, which includes Wnt7b, Wnt3, and 
Wnt16, showed significant interactions in pathways such as Wnt signaling, 
Alzheimer's disease, and regulation of stem cell pluripotency. The second group, 
composed of Fos, Dusp1, Pla2g4e, Pla2g4f, and Fgfr3, demonstrated a notable 
association with the MAPK signaling pathway. Lastly, the third group, consisting 
of Adcy1, Pla2g4e, Pla2g4f, and Dusp1 exhibited effective interactions with the 
inflammatory mediator regulation of TRP channels and serotonergic synapse.
CONCLUSION: Continued research on nodal structures where these genes are 
expressed is needed to improve our understanding of skin anatomy and physiology 
as well as their potential clinical utility as acupuncture points.

© 2024. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Genetics Society of Korea.

DOI: 10.1007/s13258-024-01582-y
PMID: 39503930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest. Ethical approval: This research 
was approved by the Wonkwang University Animal Experiment Ethics Committee 
(WKU19-36; WKU24-11). Informed consent: Not applicable.


74. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 Apr;398(4):4539-4558. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-024-03555-0. Epub 2024 Nov 6.

Synthesizing network pharmacology, bioinformatics, and in vitro experimental 
verification to screen candidate targets of Salidroside for mitigating 
Alzheimer's disease.

Cai Y(#)(1), Huang G(#)(2), Ren M(2), Chai Y(3), Huang X(4), Yan T(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of TCM-Related Comorbid Depression, Nanjing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(2)School of Basic Medical Science and Clinical Pharmacy, China Pharmaceutical 
University, Nanjing, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Shanghai Changhai Hospital, Second Military 
University, Shanghai, 200433, China.
(4)Institute of TCM-Related Comorbid Depression, Nanjing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Nanjing, China. 290606@njucm.edu.cn.
(5)School of Basic Medical Science and Clinical Pharmacy, China Pharmaceutical 
University, Nanjing, China. 1020050806@cpu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurological disorder leading to cognitive 
deficits. Salidroside (Sal), a primary bioactive ingredient extracted from the 
roots of Rhodiola rosea L., has potent neuroprotective effects in AD. However, 
studies on potential targets for Sal-anchored AD are limited. In this study, we 
combined network pharmacology, bioinformatics, and experimental validation to 
identify potential targets of Sal treating AD. First, we screened 10 
pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) in Sal and AD using public databases. Then, we 
used Gene Ontology and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment 
analysis to explore the biological functions of the shared PRGs (Sal and AD). 
This finding exhibited that pathways linked to inflammation, like the nucleotide 
oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptors signaling pathway, are important for 
Sal to help fight AD. The GeneMANIA functional results subsequently revealed an 
association between AD and the processes of inflammasome complex and 
inflammatory response. Additionally, nine hub genes were identified in the 
protein-protein interaction network of these shared PRGs. Subsequent analysis of 
the genes and phenotypes confirmed that these nine hub genes were directly 
correlated with AD. Subsequently, an in vitro AD model was created using rat 
adrenal pheochromocytoma cell line (PC12) cells induced by amyloid β-peptide 
(Aβ) 25-35 (20 µM). Sal significantly reduced the pyroptosis caused by Aβ 25-35 
in PC12 cells and decreased the expression levels of IL-1β, CASP1, IL-18, 
PYCARD, and NLRP3. Furthermore, molecular docking and molecular dynamics 
simulations confirmed that Sal could stably bind to NLRP3. Druggability analysis 
revealed that Sal had excellent druggability. These results demonstrated that 
Sal could alleviate AD by targeting IL-1β, CASP1, IL-18, PYCARD, and NLRP3 to 
regulate the NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis signaling pathway.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-024-03555-0
PMID: 39503755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests. Fig. 1 was 
drawn by Figdraw ( www.figdraw.com ).


75. J Neurochem. 2025 Feb;169(2):e16257. doi: 10.1111/jnc.16257. Epub 2024 Nov 6.

Elevated serum sodium is linked to increased amyloid-dependent tau pathology, 
neurodegeneration, and cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease.

Chen YH(1), Wang ZB(2), Liu XP(3), Mao ZQ(4); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)The First Clinical Medical School, Hebei North University, Zhangjiakou, 
China.
(2)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, National Center for Neurological Disorders, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Hebei North 
University, Zhangjiakou, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Medical Center of Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing, China.

Vascular dysfunction is implicated in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). While sodium is essential for maintaining vascular function, its role in 
AD pathology remains unclear. We included 353 participants from the Alzheimer's 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), assessing serum sodium levels, 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and positron emission tomography (PET) biomarkers, 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and cognitive function. An independent sample 
(N = 471) with available CSF sodium-related proteins and AD biomarkers was also 
included. Associations between serum sodium levels and AD pathology, 
neurodegeneration, and cognition were evaluated using linear regression models. 
Spearman's correlation analyses assessed the relationships between CSF 
sodium-related proteins and AD biomarkers. Higher serum sodium levels were 
associated with increased AD pathology, reduced hippocampal volume, and greater 
cognitive decline (all p < 0.05). The relationship between serum sodium and 
amyloid PET was evident in several AD-susceptible brain regions, including the 
neocortex and limbic system. Individuals with high serum sodium exhibited higher 
tau pathology, lower hippocampal volume, and more severe cognitive decline per 
unit increase in amyloid PET compared to those with low serum sodium (all 
p < 0.05). Among the 14 CSF sodium-related proteins, which were 
inter-correlated, six were significantly correlated with CSF AD pathology and 
amyloid PET, while two were correlated with hippocampal volume and cognitive 
function, with sodium channel subunit beta-2 (SCN2B) and sodium channel subunit 
beta-3 (SCN3B) showing the strongest correlations. These findings underscore the 
crucial role of serum sodium in AD progression, highlighting a potential network 
of sodium dysregulation involved in AD pathology. Targeting sodium may offer a 
novel therapeutic approach to slowing AD progression, particularly by impeding 
the progression of amyloid-related downstream events.

© 2024 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.16257
PMID: 39503608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Gerodontology. 2025 Sep;42(3):329-341. doi: 10.1111/ger.12796. Epub 2024 Nov
6.

Validity of the Oral Hygiene Ability Instrument (OHAI).

Lindén IG(1)(2), Wenemark M(3)(4), Andersson P(5), Dahlin-Ivanoff S(6)(7), 
Gahnberg L(8), Hägglin C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral and Community Dentistry, Institute of Odontology, 
The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Göteborg, Sweden.
(2)Centre of Gerodontology, Public Dental Service, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Health, Medicine and Caring Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.
(4)Unit for Public Health and Statistics, Linköping, Sweden.
(5)Faculty of Health Sciences, Kristianstad University, Kristianstad, Sweden.
(6)AgeCap, University of Gothenburg, Göteborg, Sweden.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Göteborg, Sweden.
(8)Department of Oral Diseases, Institute of Odontology, Karolinska Institutet, 
Solna, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the validity of the newly developed Oral Hygiene Ability 
Instrument (OHAI), created to assess the cause of any inability of older adults 
to perform oral hygiene, and to revise the instrument based on the results.
BACKGROUND: Good oral hygiene is among the most important prophylactic measures 
for oral health. This applies especially to older adults, among whom risk 
factors and physical and cognitive barriers are more common and can hamper oral 
hygiene.
METHODS: The OHAI contains (I) an interview, (II) clinical examination, (III) 
observation of oral hygiene activities and a summarising part. In the study, 149 
older adults in three groups participated: stroke, cognitive disorder and 
general dental patients. Inclusion criteria were to be ≥65 years old, have at 
least one tooth and to manage oral hygiene without assistance. For criterion 
validity, sensitivity and specificity were calculated using eight reference 
instruments. To determine construct validity, we used known group validity, 
factor analysis and Rasch analysis.
RESULTS: The criterion and construct validity of the OHAI were found to be 
acceptable to good. In the stroke group, balance and fine motor skills were 
assessed to affect oral hygiene most; in the cognitive disorder group, it was 
balance, coordination, spatial ability and cognitive functions. Analyses 
revealed that one item had no added value and that some response options were 
not optimal.
CONCLUSION: The OHAI proved to be valid for the group it is intended for, with 
only minor revisions needed, resulting in a 32-item instrument. The OHAI could 
be a valuable person-centred tool in prophylactic work with older adults with 
failing oral hygiene.

© 2024 The Author(s). Gerodontology published by Gerodontology Association and 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ger.12796
PMCID: PMC12344614
PMID: 39503235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests.


77. Comput Biol Med. 2024 Dec;183:109303. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109303. 
Epub 2024 Oct 28.

Plasma protein-based identification of neuroimage-driven subtypes in mild 
cognitive impairment via protein-protein interaction aware explainable graph 
propagational network.

Park S(1), Kim D(1), Lee H(2), Hong CH(3), Son SJ(3), Roh HW(3), Kim D(4), Nam 
Y(5), Lee DG(5), Shin H(6), Woo HG(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, 16499, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, 16499, 
Republic of Korea; Department of Psychology, Duksung Women's University, Seoul, 
01369, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, 16499, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology & Informatics, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA; Institute 
for Biomedical Informatics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, 
USA.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology & Informatics, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(6)Department of Industrial Engineering, Ajou University, Suwon, 16499, Republic 
of Korea; Department of Artificial Intelligence, Ajou University, Suwon, 16499, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: shin@ajou.ac.kr.
(7)Department of Physiology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, 16499, 
Republic of Korea; Department of Biomedical Science, Graduate School of Ajou 
University, Suwon, 16499, Republic of Korea; Ajou Translational Omics Center, 
Research Institute for Innovative Medicine, Ajou University Medical Center, 
Suwon, 16499, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: hg@ajou.ac.kr.

As an early indicator of dementia, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) requires 
specialized treatment according to its subtypes for the effective prevention and 
management of dementia progression. Based on the neuropathological 
characteristics, MCI can be classified into Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related 
cognitive impairment (ADCI) and subcortical vascular cognitive impairment 
(SVCI), being more likely to progress to AD and subcortical vascular dementia 
(SVD), respectively. For identifying MCI subtypes, plasma protein biomarkers are 
recently seen as promising tools due to their minimal invasiveness and 
cost-effectiveness in diagnostic procedures. Furthermore, the application of 
machine learning (ML) has led the preciseness in the biomarker discovery and the 
resulting diagnostics. Nevertheless, previous ML-based studies often fail to 
consider interactions between proteins, which are essential in complex 
neurodegenerative disorders such as MCI and dementia. Although protein-protein 
interactions (PPIs) have been employed in network models, these models 
frequently do not fully capture the diverse properties of PPIs due to their 
local awareness. This limitation increases the likelihood of overlooking 
critical components and amplifying the impact of noisy interactions. In this 
study, we introduce a new graph-based ML model for classifying MCI subtypes, 
called eXplainable Graph Propagational Network (XGPN). The proposed method 
extracts the globally interactive effects between proteins by propagating the 
independent effect of plasma proteins on the PPI network, and thereby, MCI 
subtypes are predicted by estimation of the risk effect of each protein. 
Moreover, the process of model training and the outcome of subtype 
classification are fully explainable due to the simplicity and transparency of 
XGPN's architecture. The experimental results indicated that the interactive 
effect between proteins significantly contributed to the distinct differences 
between MCI subtype groups, resulting in an enhanced classification performance 
with an average improvement of 10.0 % compared to existing methods, also 
identifying key biomarkers and their impact on ADCI and SVCI.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109303
PMID: 39503109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


78. Front Aging Neurosci. 2024 Oct 21;16:1468602. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2024.1468602.  eCollection 2024.

TLR4-mediated chronic neuroinflammation has no effect on tangle pathology in a 
tauopathy mouse model.

Basheer N(#)(1), Muhammadi MK(#)(1), Freites CL(2), Avila M(2), Momand MUD(1), 
Hryntsova N(1), Smolek T(1), Katina S(1)(3), Zilka N(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroimmunology, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Bratislava, 
Slovakia.
(2)Institute of Histology and Embryology of Mendoza (IHEM), National University 
of Cuyo, National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET), Mendoza, 
Argentina.
(3)Institute of Mathematics and Statistics, Faculty of Science, Masaryk 
University, Brno, Czechia.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is marked by the accumulation of 
fibrillary aggregates composed of pathological tau protein. Although 
neuroinflammation is frequently observed in conjunction with tau pathology, 
current preclinical evidence does not sufficiently establish a direct causal 
role in tau tangle formation. This study aimed to evaluate whether chronic 
Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) stimulation, induced by a high dose of 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 5 mg/kg), exacerbates neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) 
pathology in a transgenic mouse model of tauopathy that expresses human 
truncated 151-391/3R tau, an early feature of sporadic AD.
METHODS: We utilized a transgenic mouse model of tauopathy subjected to chronic 
TLR4 stimulation via weekly intraperitoneal injections of LPS over nine 
consecutive weeks. Neurofibrillary tangle formation, microglial activation, and 
tau hyperphosphorylation in the brainstem and hippocampus were assessed through 
immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and detailed morphometric analysis of 
microglia.
RESULTS: Chronic LPS treatment led to a significant increase in the number of 
Iba-1+ microglia in the LPS-treated group compared to the sham group 
(p < 0.0001). Notably, there was a 1.5- to 1.7-fold increase in microglia per 
tangle-bearing neuron in the LPS-treated group. These microglia exhibited a 
reactive yet exhausted phenotype, characterized by a significant reduction in 
cell area (p < 0.0001) without significant changes in other morphometric 
parameters, such as perimeter, circumference, solidity, aspect ratio, or 
arborization degree. Despite extensive microglial activation, there was no 
observed reduction in tau hyperphosphorylation or a decrease in tangle formation 
in the brainstem, where pathology predominantly develops in this model.
DISCUSSION: These findings suggest that chronic TLR4 stimulation in 
tau-transgenic mice results in significant microglial activation but does not 
influence tau tangle formation. This underscores the complexity of the 
relationship between neuroinflammation and tau pathology, indicating that 
additional mechanisms may be required for neuroinflammation to directly 
contribute to tau tangle formation.

Copyright © 2024 Basheer, Muhammadi, Freites, Avila, Momand, Hryntsova, Smolek, 
Katina and Zilka.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1468602
PMCID: PMC11536299
PMID: 39503044

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


79. Adv Appl Bioinform Chem. 2024 Nov 1;17:107-118. doi: 10.2147/AABC.S483115. 
eCollection 2024.

Investigating the Potency of Erythrina‒Derived Flavonoids as Cholinesterase 
Inhibitors and Free Radical Scavengers Through in silico Approach: Implications 
for Alzheimer's Disease Therapy.

Akili AWR(1), Thurfah NA(1), Hardianto A(1), Latip J(2), Herlina T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Science, 
Universitas Padjadjaran, Sumedang, West Java, 45363, Indonesia.
(2)Department of Chemical Sciences, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM), Bangi, Selangor, 46300, Malaysia.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate the potency of 471 flavonoids from the 
genus Erythrina as potential acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors and free 
radical scavengers through computational studies to develop Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) therapies from natural products.
METHODS: A total of 471 flavonoids from the genus Erythrina were subjected to 
molecular docking against AChE, followed by toxicity screening. The potential 
AChE inhibitors with the least toxic profile were subjected to further 
investigation through molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, density functional 
theory (DFT) study, and in silico pharmacokinetic predictions.
RESULTS: A combination of molecular docking and in silico toxicity screening led 
to the identification of 
2(S)‒5,7‒dihydroxy‒5'‒methoxy‒[2'',2''‒(3''‒hydroxy)‒dimethylpyrano]‒(5'',6'':3',4') 
flavanone (89) and Abyssinoflavanone IV (83) as potential AChE inhibitors. These 
compounds had stable binding to AchE and exhibited lower Root Mean Square 
Deviation (RMSD) values compared to the apo state of AChE. In addition, 
Molecular Mechanics Generalized Born Surface Area (MMGBSA) analysis revealed 
that the binding energies of 89 and 83 were significantly lower compared to 
acetylcholine, the natural substrate of AChE. Based on DFT study, these 
compounds exhibited a higher energy in the highest occupied molecular orbital 
(EHOMO) and lower electron affinity (EA) than Quercetin. This indicated that 89 
and 83 could be potential radical scavengers through their electron-donating 
activity.
CONCLUSION: Although this study primarily relied on computational methods, the 
results showed the dual functionality of compounds 89 and 83 as both potential 
AChE inhibitors and free radical scavengers. Further investigation in wet 
laboratory experiments is required to validate their therapeutic potential for 
AD.

© 2024 Akili et al.

DOI: 10.2147/AABC.S483115
PMCID: PMC11537160
PMID: 39502518

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


80. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2024 Oct;46(5):740-746. doi: 
10.3881/j.issn.1000-503X.15880.

[Research Progress in Health Hazards and Daily Intervention of Age-Related 
Hearing Loss].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Li Y(1), Shao SH(1), Qiu ST(1), Hu JH(1), Tan XH(1), Hong Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health,Hangzhou Normal University,Hangzhou 311121,China.

Age-related hearing loss (ARHL) is a common chronic disease that poses a serious 
threat to the physical and mental health of the elderly in an aging society.It 
is a sensorineural hearing loss characterized by the loss of auditory hair 
cells,stria vascularis lesions,apoptosis of spiral ganglia,and degeneration of 
the auditory central nervous system,reducing the quality of life of the 
patients.This article reviews the research progress in the relationship of ARHL 
with Alzheimer's disease,depression,and frailty,as well as the daily 
intervention in ARHL.This review aims to improve people's awareness and 
attention to the health hazards of ARHL and to delay the occurrence and 
development of ARHL by implementing daily intervention measures to form a 
healthy lifestyle.

Publisher: 
年龄相关性听力损失(ARHL)是当前老龄化社会中最普遍且严重威胁老年人身心健康的慢性疾病,其是一种以听觉毛细胞丢失、血管纹病变、螺旋神经节凋亡以及听觉神经中枢退化为主要表现的感音神经性听力损失,显著降低患者的生活质量。本文重点对ARHL与阿尔茨海默病、抑郁症、虚弱之间的关系以及ARHL日常干预的研究进展进行综述,旨在提高人们对ARHL健康危害的认知水平和重视程度,并通过实施日常干预措施形成健康的生活方式来延缓ARHL的发生及发展。.

DOI: 10.3881/j.issn.1000-503X.15880
PMID: 39502056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2024 Dec 11;26(48):29696-29707. doi: 10.1039/d4cp03549f.

Porous organic cages as inhibitors of Aβ(42) peptide aggregation: a simulation 
study.

Zhao D(1), Zhou Y(1), Xing F(2), Wang H(1), Zhou J(3).

Author information:
(1)Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center for Advanced Organic Chemical 
Materials, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for the Synthesis and 
Application of Organic Functional Molecules, School of Chemistry and Chemical 
Engineering, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, P. R. China. wanghx@hubu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Radiology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan 430060, 
P. R. China.
(3)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, South China University of 
Technology, Guangzhou 510640, P. R. China. jianzhou@scut.edu.cn.

The aggregation of Aβ monomers into oligomers with β-sheet structures is an 
important cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD), while the Aβ42 peptide is more 
toxic and prone to aggregate. It is of great significance to study the 
inhibition mechanism of Aβ42 monomer aggregation and find excellent inhibitors 
for the treatment of AD. Research in recent years has focused on small molecule 
compounds and nanoparticles, but they all have certain limitations. As a new 
type of porous material, a porous organic cage (POC) has potential application 
feasibility in the biomedical field due to its unique physicochemical 
properties. In this work, molecular dynamics simulations were used for the first 
time to explore the interaction and conformational transformation of the Aβ42 
peptide in CC3 crystals with different morphologies (planar and spherical). The 
results show that the adsorption of the Aβ42 peptide on different CC3 crystals 
is mainly achieved through strong van der Waals forces. During the simulations, 
the Aβ42 peptide undergoes various degrees of structural changes. Compared to 
that in water, this binding induces more irregular structures, such as turns and 
3-helices, and inhibits the production of β-sheets, while enhancing the overall 
backbone rigidity of the Aβ42 peptide. The transformation analysis of peptide 
conformation is further complemented by free energy landscape and cluster 
analysis. These findings provide a strong basis for CC3 crystals as novel 
inhibitors to inhibit the toxicity and aggregation of the Aβ42 peptide.

DOI: 10.1039/d4cp03549f
PMID: 39501978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2024 Nov 6;15(21):3901-3914. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00220. Epub 2024 Oct 10.

Novel Piperazine Based Compounds Target Alzheimer's Disease Relevant Amyloid β42 
and Tau Derived Peptide AcPHF6, and the Lead Molecule Increases Viability in the 
Flies Expressing Human Tau Protein.

Armstrong C(1), Luo D(1), Gretzinger A(2), Pandey D(1), Lipchik A(1), Todi 
SV(2)(3), Dutta AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wayne State University, Detroit, 
Michigan 48202, United States.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48201, 
United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48201, 
United States.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading form of dementia in the United States 
and the world. The pathophysiology of AD is complex and multifaceted. 
Accumulation of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are hallmarks 
of AD. The aggregation of amyloid β (senile plaques) and tau tangles (NFTs) 
results in the death of neurons in the cortex and hippocampus, which manifests 
itself in cognitive decline and memory loss. Current therapies rely on 
conventional approaches that have only treated the underlying symptoms without 
disease modification. Data from clinical studies point to a complex role of 
amyloid β (Aβ) in a way that enhances the tau phenotype throughout the disease 
process. To address the co-pathogenic role of Aβ and tau, we undertook 
development of multitarget compounds aiming at both tau and Aβ to slow or stop 
disease progression and provide neuroprotection. Here, we demonstrate a 
dose-dependent effect of the novel test compounds that inhibit aggregation of 
AcPHF6 (a shorter version of tau protein) and Aβ1-42 peptides in thioflavin T 
fluorescent assays. The compounds were also shown to disaggregate preformed 
aggregates dose dependently. To further validate these findings, circular 
dichroism experiments were carried out to examine the nature of inhibition. 
Additionally, transmission electron microscopy experiments were carried out to 
gain insights into the morphologies of aggregates obtained from dose-dependent 
inhibition of AcPHF6 and Aβ1-42 as well as dissociation of preformed aggregates 
from these peptides. Compounds D-687 and D-688 reversed Aβ1-42 induced toxicity 
in SH-SH5Y cells, significantly demonstrating neuroprotective properties. 
Finally, in a study with Drosophila melanogaster expressing human tau protein 
isoform (2N4R) in all the neurons, compound D-688 significantly increased the 
survival of flies compared to vehicle treated controls. Future studies will 
further examine the neuroprotective properties of these lead compounds in 
various animal models.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00220
PMID: 39501783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(3):633-638. doi: 10.1177/13872877241290524.
Epub  2024 Nov 6.

Assessing palliative care needs in patients with dementia: A cross-sectional 
analysis of an predominantly oldest-old population from a geriatric memory 
clinic.

Tagliafico L(1), Drago B(2), Ottaviani S(1)(3), Nencioni A(1)(3), Monacelli 
F(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Section of Geriatrics, Department of Internal Medicine and Medical 
Specialties (DI.M.I.), University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.
(2)Internal Medicine, Ospedale Civile, ASL1, Imperia, Italy.
(3)IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genoa, Italy.

In this cross-sectional study, we assessed palliative care (PC) needs in older 
adults with dementia. Using the NECPAL CCOMS-ICO© 3.1 tool and comprehensive 
geriatric assessment, 16.25% of the 554 evaluated patients required PC, which 
had clinical frailty and a moderate stage of dementia. Advanced frailty was 
associated with the poorest prognosis, according to the PC-based stratification. 
Our findings support the use of PC assessment in dementia care, which focuses on 
a person-centered approach while minimizing unnecessary or ineffective 
treatments and meeting the real-world patient's needs. PC care may fulfill the 
multidimensional nature of dementia, shifting towards personalized palliative 
approaches.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241290524
PMID: 39501775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


84. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(3):866-876. doi: 10.1177/13872877241292018.
Epub  2024 Nov 5.

Real-world assessment of caregiver preference and compliance to treatment with 
twice-weekly versus daily rivastigmine patches in Alzheimer's disease.

García-Alberca JM(1), De La Guía P(1), Gris E(1), Mendoza S(1), López De La Rica 
M(1), López-Trigo JA(2), López-Mongil R(2), García-López T(3), López-García 
R(3), Rodríguez Del Rey T(4), Gay-Puente J(4), García-Castro J(5), Casales F(5), 
Morato X(5), Boada M(5), González-Velasco G(6), Marín-Carmona JM(7), Páez NI(7), 
León M(7), Carrillejo R(8), Rius F(9), Barbancho MÁ(10), Lara JP(10), 
Blanco-Reina E(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Research Center and Memory Clinic, Instituto Andaluz de 
Neurociencia (IANEC), Málaga, Spain.
(2)Centro Crevic, Málaga, Spain.
(3)Clínica Neurodem, Almería, Spain.
(4)Centro de Referencia Estatal de Atención a Personas con Enfermedad de 
Alzheimer y Otras Demencias, Salamanca, Spain.
(5)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Hospital del Bierzo, Ponferrada, Spain.
(7)Centro de Envejecimiento Saludable, Ayuntamiento de Málaga, Málaga, Spain.
(8)Asociación ACEA, Campo de Criptana, Ciudad Real, Spain.
(9)Statistics Department, School of Medicine, University of Málaga, Málaga, 
Spain.
(10)Brain Health Unit (CIMES), School of Medicine, University of Málaga, IBIMA, 
Málaga, Spain.
(11)Pharmacology and Therapeutics Department, School of Medicine, University of 
Málaga, IBIMA, Málaga, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Adherence is critical in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in 
order to achieve optimal benefit from therapy. However, patient compliance with 
the treatment remains a challenge.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate, in a real-world clinical setting, caregiver preference 
and treatment compliance with twice-weekly versus daily transdermal rivastigmine 
patch in mild-to-moderate AD.
METHODS: 92 patients who had been treated with daily rivastigmine patch for at 
least six months prior to switching to twice-weekly patch were evaluated. The 
change in therapeutic regimen was decided by the treating physician in 
accordance with standard practice. Caregivers' satisfaction with daily 
rivastigmine patch was assessed at study entry. Caregiver's preference and 
satisfaction with twice-weekly patch as well as patient compliance were 
evaluated at weeks 12 and 24 using the Alzheimer's Disease Caregiver Preference 
Questionnaire.
RESULTS: A significantly higher proportion of caregivers expressed a preference 
for the twice-weekly patch over the daily patch (p < 0.001), and this preference 
was found to be associated with ease of use (p < 0.001), ease of following the 
schedule (p < 0.001), and ease of compliance (p < 0.001). Furthermore, 
caregivers were more satisfied with the twice-weekly patch (p < 0.0001). At 24 
weeks, patient compliance was significantly better with the twice-weekly patch 
than with the daily patch (p = 0.002). Caregiver burden significantly improved 
at the end of the treatment (p = 0.003). No serious adverse events were 
reported.
CONCLUSIONS: The twice-weekly rivastigmine patch offers a convenient and 
straightforward dosing regimen for caregivers, with potential to enhance 
adherence with treatment in AD patients without causing serious adverse events.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241292018
PMID: 39501608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


85. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(3):730-741. doi: 10.1177/13872877241291142.
Epub  2024 Nov 5.

Primary cortical cell tri-culture to study effects of amyloid-β on microglia 
function and neuroinflammatory response.

Kim H(1), Le B(2), Goshi N(1), Zhu K(2), Grodzki AC(3), Lein PJ(3), Zhao M(2), 
Seker E(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of California-Davis, Davis, 
CA, USA.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science, University of 
California-Davis, Davis, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Biosciences, University of California-Davis, Davis, 
CA, USA.
(4)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of 
California-Davis, Davis, CA, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Mar 17:2024.03.15.584736. doi: 10.1101/2024.03.15.584736.

BACKGROUND: Microglia play a critical role in neurodegenerative disorders, such 
as Alzheimer's disease, where alterations in microglial function may result in 
pathogenic amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation, chronic neuroinflammation, and 
deleterious effects on neuronal function. However, studying these complex 
factors in vivo, where numerous confounding processes exist, is challenging, and 
until recently, in vitro models have not allowed sustained culture of critical 
cell types in the same culture.
OBJECTIVE: We employed a rat primary tri-culture (neurons, astrocytes, and 
microglia) model and compared it to co-culture (neurons and astrocytes) and 
mono-culture (microglia) to study microglial function (i.e., motility and Aβ 
clearance) and proteomic response to exogenous Aβ.
METHODS: The cultures were exposed to fluorescently-labeled Aβ (FITC-Aβ) 
particles for varying durations. Epifluorescence microscopy images were analyzed 
to quantify the number of FITC-Aβ particles and assess cytomorphological 
features. Cytokine profiles from conditioned media were obtained. Live-cell 
imaging was employed to extract microglia motility parameters.
RESULTS: FITC-Aβ particles were more effectively cleared in the tri-culture 
compared to the co-culture. This was attributed to microglia engulfing FITC-Aβ 
particles, as confirmed via epifluorescence and confocal microscopy. FITC-Aβ 
treatment significantly increased microglia size, but had no significant effect 
on neuronal surface coverage or astrocyte size. Upon FITC-Aβ treatment, there 
was a significant increase in proinflammatory cytokines in tri-culture, but not 
in co-culture. Aβ treatment altered microglia motility evident as a 
swarming-like motion.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that neuron-astrocyte-microglia interactions 
influence microglia function and highlight the utility of the tri-culture model 
for studies of neuroinflammation, neurodegeneration, and cell-cell 
communication.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241291142
PMCID: PMC11758989
PMID: 39501607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article. Data availabilityThe datasets 
generated during and/or analyzed during the current study are available from the 
corresponding author on reasonable request.


86. BioData Min. 2024 Nov 5;17(1):48. doi: 10.1186/s13040-024-00395-9.

Deep joint learning diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease based on multimodal feature 
fusion.

Wang J(1), Wen S(1), Liu W(2), Meng X(3)(4), Jiao Z(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, Changzhou University, 
Changzhou, 213164, China.
(2)School of Computer Information and Engineering, Changzhou Institute of 
Technology, Changzhou, 213032, China.
(3)School of Computer Information and Engineering, Changzhou Institute of 
Technology, Changzhou, 213032, China. mengxl@czust.edu.cn.
(4)Wangzheng School of Microelectronics, Changzhou University, Changzhou, 
213164, China. mengxl@czust.edu.cn.
(5)School of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, Changzhou University, 
Changzhou, 213164, China. jzq@cczu.edu.cn.
(6)Wangzheng School of Microelectronics, Changzhou University, Changzhou, 
213164, China. jzq@cczu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an advanced and incurable neurodegenerative disease. 
Genetic variations are intrinsic etiological factors contributing to the 
abnormal expression of brain function and structure in AD patients. A new 
multimodal feature fusion called "magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-p value" was 
proposed to construct 3D fusion images by introducing genes as a priori 
knowledge. Moreover, a new deep joint learning diagnostic model was constructed 
to fully learn images features. One branch trained a residual network (ResNet) 
to learn the features of local pathological regions. The other branch learned 
the position information of brain regions with different changes in the 
different categories of subjects' brains by introducing attention convolution, 
and then obtained the discriminative probability information from locations via 
convolution and global average pooling. The feature and position information of 
the two branches were linearly interacted to acquire the diagnostic basis for 
classifying the different categories of subjects. The diagnoses of AD and health 
control (HC), AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI), HC and MCI were performed 
with data from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). The 
results showed that the proposed method achieved optimal results in AD-related 
diagnosis. The classification accuracy (ACC) and area under the curve (AUC) of 
the three experimental groups were 93.44% and 96.67%, 89.06% and 92%, and 84% 
and 81.84%, respectively. Moreover, a total of six novel genes were found to be 
significantly associated with AD, namely NTM, MAML2, NAALADL2, FHIT, TMEM132D 
and PCSK5, which provided new targets for the potential treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13040-024-00395-9
PMCID: PMC11536794
PMID: 39501294

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


87. J Biomed Sci. 2024 Nov 5;31(1):102. doi: 10.1186/s12929-024-01090-x.

Role of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists in Alzheimer's disease and 
Parkinson's disease.

Hong CT(1)(2)(3), Chen JH(1)(2)(3), Hu CJ(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei 
Medical University, No. 250, Wuxing St., Xinyi Dist., Taipei, 110, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Shuang Ho Hospital, Taipei Medical University, New 
Taipei City, Taiwan.
(3)Taipei Neuroscience Institute, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei 
Medical University, No. 250, Wuxing St., Xinyi Dist., Taipei, 110, Taiwan. 
chaurjongh@tmu.edu.tw.
(5)Department of Neurology, Shuang Ho Hospital, Taipei Medical University, New 
Taipei City, Taiwan. chaurjongh@tmu.edu.tw.
(6)Taipei Neuroscience Institute, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
chaurjongh@tmu.edu.tw.

Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Parkinson's 
Disease (PD) are common complications of diabetes, arising from insulin 
resistance, inflammation, and other pathological processes in the central 
nervous system. The potential of numerous antidiabetic agents to modify 
neurodegenerative disease progression, both preclinically and clinically, has 
been assessed. These agents may provide additional therapeutic benefits beyond 
glycemic control. Introduced in the twenty-first century, glucagon-like 
peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) are a class of antidiabetic drugs noted 
not only for their potent glucose-lowering effects but also for their 
cardiovascular and renal protective benefits. Various GLP-1RAs have been 
demonstrated to have significant benefits in in vitro and in vivo models of 
neurodegenerative diseases through modulating a variety of pathogenic 
mechanisms, including neuroinflammation, autophagy, mitochondrial dysfunction, 
and the abnormal phosphorylation of pathognomonic proteins. These agents also 
have substantial protective effects on cognitive and behavioral functions, such 
as motor function. However, clinical trials investigating GLP-1RAs in diseases 
such as AD, PD, mild cognitive impairment, psychiatric disorders, and diabetes 
have yielded mixed results for cognitive and motor function. This review 
examines the link between diabetes and neurodegenerative diseases, explores the 
effects of antidiabetic agents on neurodegeneration, provides a concise overview 
of the GLP-1 pathway, and discusses both preclinical and clinical trial outcomes 
of GLP-1RAs for neurodegenerative diseases, including their effects on cognition 
in AD and PD. This review also proposed new strategies for the design of future 
clinical trials on GLP-1 RAs for both AD and PD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12929-024-01090-x
PMCID: PMC11539687
PMID: 39501255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


88. J Neurosci. 2024 Nov 27;44(48):e0877242024. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0877-24.2024.

Targeting Endogenous Tau in Seeded Tauopathy Models Inhibits Tau Spread.

Jang E(1), Hoxha K(1), Mozier D(1), Insana A(1), Farber E(1), Changolkar L(1), 
Zhang B(1), Chio TI(1), Crowe A(1), Chen R(1), Mercken M(2), Lee EB(3), Luk 
KC(1), Brunden KR(1), Lee VM(1), Xu H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Institute on Aging and 
Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, Perelman School of Medicine at 
the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104.
(2)Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, Neuroscience Discovery, Beerse 23403, Belgium.
(3)Translational Neuropathology Research Laboratory, Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104.
(4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Institute on Aging and 
Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, Perelman School of Medicine at 
the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104 
hongxu@upenn.edu.

The transmission of tau pathology has been proposed as one of the major 
mechanisms for the spatiotemporal spreading of tau pathology in 
neurodegenerative diseases. Over the last decade, studies have demonstrated that 
targeting total or pathological tau using tau antibodies can mitigate the 
development of tau pathology in tauopathy or Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse 
models, and multiple tau immunotherapy agents have progressed to clinical 
trials. Tau antibodies are believed to inhibit the internalization of pathologic 
seeds and/or block seed elongation after seed internalization. To further 
address the mechanism of tau antibody inhibition of pathological spread, we 
conducted immunotherapy studies in mouse primary neurons and wild-type mice 
(females) seeded with AD patient-derived tau to induce the formation and 
spreading of tau pathology. Notably, we evaluated the effect of a mouse 
tau-specific antibody (mTau8) which does not interact with AD-tau seeds in these 
models. Our results show that mTau8 crosses the blood-brain barrier at levels 
similar to other antibodies and effectively decreases AD-tau-seeded tau 
pathology in vitro and in vivo. Importantly, our data suggest that mTau8 binds 
to endogenous intraneuronal mouse tau, thereby inhibiting the elongation of 
internalized tau seeds. These findings provide valuable insights into the 
possible mechanism underlying antibody-based therapies for treating tauopathies.

Copyright © 2024 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0877-24.2024
PMCID: PMC11604146
PMID: 39500576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


89. Aging Dis. 2024 Sep 30;16(5):2770-2802. doi: 10.14336/AD.2024.0834.

Systemic Modulators: Potential Mechanism for the 5-HT System to Mediate Exercise 
Amelioration in Alzheimer's Disease.

Wu Q(1), He Q(1), Zhang X(1), Chen S(2), Xue X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Education, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(2)School of Nursing and Rehabilitation, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong, China.

As a neurodegenerative disease closely related to age-related changes, 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is rapidly becoming one of the most resource-intensive 
and deadly diseases of this century. As a systemic neurotransmitter system with 
widespread distribution throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems, 
the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) system not only plays an important role in 
antidepressant therapy but also shows potential value in improving AD symptoms. 
The 5-HT system may facilitate the prevention and treatment of AD by impacting 
its pathological processes through various pathways, such as the regulation of 
Aβ deposition, hyperphosphorylation of Tau, central and peripheral 
neuroinflammation, and the interactions with the cholinergic and BDNF systems. 
In addition, regular exercise, as a non-pharmacological intervention, provides 
systemic and multi-level physical health benefits. Given the high sensitivity of 
the 5-HT system to exercise, this paper reviews its crucial role and potential 
mechanisms in alleviating AD through exercise. From perspective of the 
integrative biology of exercise, we propose several crosstalk mechanisms between 
the peripheral and central systems mediated by the 5-HT system. These mechanisms 
serve as a bridge for the treatment of AD and offer novel ideas and strategies 
for future therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2024.0834
PMCID: PMC12339129
PMID: 39500357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. EBioMedicine. 2024 Nov;109:105413. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2024.105413. Epub
2024  Nov 4.

Identification of late-stage tau accumulation using plasma phospho-tau217.

Woo MS(1), Therriault J(2), Jonaitis EM(3), Wilson R(4), Langhough RE(3), 
Rahmouni N(5), Benedet AL(6), Ashton NJ(7), Tissot C(8), Lantero-Rodriguez J(6), 
Macedo AC(2), Servaes S(5), Wang YT(2), Arias JF(5), Hosseini SA(5), Betthauser 
TJ(3), Lussier FZ(9), Hopewell R(10), Triana-Baltzer G(11), Kolb HC(11), Jeromin 
A(12), Kobayashi E(6), Massarweh G(10), Friese MA(13), Klostranec J(14), Vilali 
P(2), Pascoal TA(9), Gauthier S(2), Zetterberg H(15), Blennow K(16), Johnson 
SC(17), Rosa-Neto P(18).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroimmunology and Multiple Sclerosis, University Medical 
Centre Hamburg Eppendorf, 20251, Hamburg, Germany; Department of Neurology, 
University Medical Centre Hamburg Eppendorf, 20251, Hamburg, Germany; 
Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill Research Centre for Studies in 
Aging, Montreal, Quebec, QC H4H 1R3, Canada. Electronic address: m.woo@uke.de.
(2)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill Research Centre for Studies in 
Aging, Montreal, Quebec, QC H4H 1R3, Canada; Department of Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, QC H3A 
1A1, Canada.
(3)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine 
and Public Health, Madison, WI, 53726, USA.
(4)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Centre, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
53726, USA.
(5)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill Research Centre for Studies in 
Aging, Montreal, Quebec, QC H4H 1R3, Canada.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the 
University of Gothenburg, S-431 80, Mölndal, Sweden.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the 
University of Gothenburg, S-431 80, Mölndal, Sweden; Wallenberg Centre for 
Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of Gothenburg, 40530, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(8)Molecular Biophysics and Integrated Bioimaging Department, Lawrence Berkeley 
National Laboratory, Berkeley, 510, CA, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, 15213, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, McGill 
University, Montreal, Quebec, QC H3A 1A1, Canada.
(11)Neuroscience Biomarkers, Johnson and Johnson Medical Innovation (formerly 
Janssen Research & Development), La Jolla, CA, 92121, USA.
(12)ALZpath. Inc, Carlsbad, CA, 92008, USA.
(13)Institute of Neuroimmunology and Multiple Sclerosis, University Medical 
Centre Hamburg Eppendorf, 20251, Hamburg, Germany.
(14)Montreal Neurologic Institute and Hospital, Department of Diagnostic and 
Interventional Neuroradiology, McGill University Health Centre, 3801 Rue 
University, Montréal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Centre, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, 53726, USA; Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, The Sahlgrenska 
Academy at the University of Gothenburg, S-431 80, Mölndal, Sweden; Clinical 
Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, S-431 80, Mölndal, 
Sweden; Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, 
Queen Square, London, WC1E 6BT, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, 
London, WC1E 6BT, UK; Hong Kong Centre for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear 
Water Bay, 518172 Hong Kong, China.
(16)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the 
University of Gothenburg, S-431 80, Mölndal, Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry 
Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, S-431 80, Mölndal, Sweden.
(17)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine 
and Public Health, Madison, WI, 53726, USA; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease 
Research Centre, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 53726, USA.
(18)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill Research Centre for Studies in 
Aging, Montreal, Quebec, QC H4H 1R3, Canada; Department of Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, QC H3A 
1A1, Canada. Electronic address: pedro.rosa@mcgill.ca.

BACKGROUND: Blood-based disease staging across the Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
continuum holds the promise to identify individuals that profit from 
disease-modifying therapies. We set out to identify Braak V+ (Braak V and/or VI) 
tau PET-positive individuals within amyloid-β (Aβ)-positive individuals using 
plasma biomarkers.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, we assessed 289 individuals from the 
TRIAD cohort and 306 individuals from the WRAP study across the AD continuum. 
The participants were evaluated by amyloid-PET with [18F]AZD4694 or [11C]PiB and 
tau-PET with [18F]MK6240 and measured plasma levels included total tau, 
phospho-tau isoforms (pTau) pTau-181, pTau-217, pTau-231, and N-terminal tau 
(NTA-tau). We evaluated the performances of plasma biomarkers using different 
analytic platforms to predict Braak V+ positivity in Aβ+ individuals.
FINDINGS: Highest associations with Braak V+ tau positivity in Aβ+ individuals 
were found for plasma pTau-217+Janssen (AUC [CI95%] = 0.97 [0.94, 1.0]) and 
ALZpath pTau-217 (AUC [CI95%] = 0.93 [0.86, 1.0]) in TRIAD. Plasma ALZpath 
pTau-217 separated Braak V+ tau PET-positive individuals in the WRAP 
longitudinal study (AUC [CI95%] = 0.97 [0.94, 1.0]).
INTERPRETATION: Thus, we demonstrate that using adjusted cut-offs, plasma 
pTau-217 identifies individuals with later Braak stage tau accumulation which 
will be helpful to stratify patients for treatments and clinical studies.
FUNDING: This research is supported by the Weston Brain Institute, Canadian 
Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) [MOP-11-51-31; RFN 152985, 159815, 162303], 
Canadian Consortium of Neurodegeneration and Aging (CCNA; MOP-11-51-31 -team 1), 
the Alzheimer's Association [NIRG-12-92090, NIRP-12-259245], Brain Canada 
Foundation (CFI Project 34874; 33397), the Fonds de Recherche du Québec-Santé 
(FRQS; Chercheur Boursier, 2020-VICO-279314). P.R-N and SG are members of the 
CIHR-CCNA Canadian Consortium of Neurodegeneration in Aging. Colin J. Adair 
Charitable Foundation.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2024.105413
PMCID: PMC11570195
PMID: 39500009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests H.Z. has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). K.B. has served as a consultant and at advisory boards 
for Acumen, ALZPath, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Julius Clinical, Lilly, Novartis, 
Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at 
data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, 
produced educational materials and participated in educational programs for 
Biogen, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program, outside the work presented in this paper. H.C.K and G.T.B receive 
salary and stock from Janssen R&D. All other authors declare no conflicts of 
interest. E.M.J. served on DSMB for the NIA study K01 AG073587. S.G. received 
consulting fees as a member of the scientific advisory boards in Abbvie, 
Alzheon, AmyriAD, Eisai, Enigma/Meilleur, Lilly, Okutsa, Novo Nordisk, TauRx, 
honoraria for educational videos from Lundbeck, reimbursement for AD/PD 2024 
travel expenses by TauRx. S.G. is board member at the Sharon and Robert Francis 
Foundation, Toronto, Canada, and the Canadian Conference on Dementia (CCD). 
S.C.J. received payment for consulting Enigma Biomedical and consulted ALZpath 
without payment. T.J.B. received funding from NIH/NIA (R01AG080766), personal 
honoraria from the NIH, Intermountain Healthcare, reimbursements for travel by 
University College London, Alzheimer's Association, and NIH. J.T. served as a 
Consultant for the Neurotorium Educational platform and for Alzheon. P.V. 
received consulting fees from Eisai, Novo Nordisk, honoraria from Astra, support 
for travelling by Lilly, and participated on DMSB for the IntelGenxCorp. Y.T.W. 
has written an educational article for the Neurotorium Educational platform. 
P.R.N. received consulting fees from Novo Nordisk, Eisai, and honoraria for an 
academic talk from Novo Nordisk.


91. J Infect Dev Ctries. 2024 Sep 30;18(9.1):S18-S26. doi: 10.3855/jidc.19818.

Chest CT features and risk factors for patients with Omicron variant pneumonia: 
a multicenter retrospective clinical study.

Yang Y(1), Xie Y(1), Huang H(1), Shang R(2), Yan J(3), Liu B(3), Wang J(1), Wu 
Z(3), Hang X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Changzheng Hospital, Naval Medical 
University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Infection Control and Prevention, The 905th Hospital of PLA 
Navy, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Jing'an District Zhabei Central Hospital, 
Shanghai, China.

INTRODUCTION: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) 
Omicron variant infection has become widespread in China as a result of the 
alterations in epidemic control and prevention policies. We identified the 
clinical characteristics and lung computed tomography (CT) imaging 
characteristics of patients infected during the early stage of the Omicron BA.5 
wave in Shanghai to provide a guide to the diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis 
of infection.
METHODOLOGY: Clinical information and lung CT imaging characteristics of 
patients with Omicron variant infection admitted to three designated hospitals 
in Shanghai from March to June 2022 were analyzed retrospectively.
RESULTS: A total of 958 patients were included in the analysis. Among the 
patients, 169 (17.64%) had pneumonia confirmed by CT, of whom 70.41% (119/169) 
had lesions in < 10% of the lung area. Older age, unvaccinated status, and 
comorbid chronic lung disease, cerebrovascular disease, kidney disease, or 
Alzheimer`s disease were associated with poor prognosis. In patients with 
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pneumonia, a large lesion size was 
associated with a poor prognosis. Age ≥ 65 years, unvaccinated status, fever > 5 
days, and lymphocyte count < 0.5×109/L were risk factors for pneumonia.
CONCLUSIONS: Age ≥ 65 years, unvaccinated status, fever > 5 days, and lymphocyte 
count < 0.5×109/L can be used to identify high-risk individuals who warrant a CT 
scan to screen for COVID-19 pneumonia, especially during the period of Omicron 
variant predominance. Concurrently, the importance of immunization should be 
emphasized to help people withstand the effects of Omicron variant infection.

Copyright (c) 2024 Yinghao Yang, Ying Xie, Huili Huang, Rong Shang, Jinghua Yan, 
Bingxiang Liu, Junxue Wang, Zhiqin Wu, Xiaofeng Hang.

DOI: 10.3855/jidc.19818
PMID: 39499743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No Conflict of Interest is declared


92. ACS Nano. 2024 Dec 3;18(48):33032-33041. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.4c05693. Epub
2024  Nov 5.

Multi Targeted Therapy for Alzheimer's Disease by Guanidinium-Modified 
Calixarene and Cyclodextrin Co-Assembly Loaded with Insulin.

Zhang QY(1)(2)(3), Wang Q(4), Fu JX(1), Xu XX(1)(2), Guo DS(5), Pan YC(5), Zhang 
T(1)(2), Wang H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics, Hebei Province, Institute of 
Biophysics, School of Health Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, Hebei 
University of Technology, Tianjin 300401, P. R. China.
(2)College of Life Sciences and Key Laboratory of Bioactive Materials Ministry 
of Education, Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, P. R. China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, P. R. 
China.
(4)Department of Anaesthesiology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 
100034, China.
(5)College of Chemistry, State Key Laboratory of Elemento-Organic Chemistry, Key 
Laboratory of Functional Polymer Materials (Ministry of Education), Frontiers 
Science Center for New Organic Matter, Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Chemical Science and Engineering (Tianjin), Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, 
China.

Amyloid-β (Aβ) is considered a primary therapeutic target for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). However, just eliminating Aβ in patients with AD has exhibited 
restricted clinical efficacy, possibly failing to address the metabolic 
abnormalities caused by AD, such as insulin resistance. To address this concern, 
our research has employed two types of macrocyclic amphiphiles, 
guanidinium-modified calixarene and cyclodextrin coassembly (GCD), as delivery 
systems for insulin. This approach aimed to tackle the metabolic dysregulation 
characteristic of AD in an innovative manner by exploring beyond the 
conventional strategy of Aβ removal. As a result, GCD and insulin coassembly 
could effectively improve plaque deposition and insulin resistance. The 
coassembly could also reduce abnormal neuronal apoptosis and synaptic damage and 
improve cognitive impairment in 5xFAD mice. Therefore, the GCD and insulin 
coassembly shows promise as a viable therapeutic option for AD.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.4c05693
PMID: 39499644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Mol Divers. 2025 Oct;29(5):4213-4229. doi: 10.1007/s11030-024-11028-y. Epub
2024  Nov 5.

Exploring bacterial metabolites in microbe-human host dialogue and their 
therapeutic potential in Alzheimer's diseases.

Singh SD(1)(2), Bharali P(3)(2), Nagamani S(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Computation and Data Sciences Division, CSIR-North East Institute of 
Science and Technology (CSIR-NEIST), Jorhat, 785006, India.
(2)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, 201002, 
India.
(3)Centre for Infectious Diseases, Biological Sciences and Technology Division, 
CSIR-North East Institute of Science and Technology (CSIR-NEIST), Jorhat, 
785006, Assam, India.
(4)Advanced Computation and Data Sciences Division, CSIR-North East Institute of 
Science and Technology (CSIR-NEIST), Jorhat, 785006, India. 
nagamani@neist.res.in.
(5)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, 201002, 
India. nagamani@neist.res.in.

Neurological dysfunction in association with aging, dementia, and cognitive 
impairment is the major cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Current AD therapies 
often yield unsatisfactory results due to their poor mechanism in treating the 
underlying mechanism of the disease. Recent studies suggested that metabolites 
from the gut microbiota facilitate brain-gut communication. A systematic network 
pharmacology study and the structure- and analog-based approaches are employed 
to investigate the metabolites produced by gut microbiota to treat AD. The 
microbiota metabolites available in the gutMGene database were considered in 
this study. Two servers, namely Swiss Target Prediction (STP) and Similarity 
Ensemble Approach (SEA), were used to identify the possible AD targets for the 
selected metabolites. Detailed KEGG pathway and Gene Ontology (GO) analysis on 
identified hub genes highlighted the importance of IL6, AKT1, and GSK3B in AD 
pathophysiology. MMTSp (Microbiota Metabolites Target Signaling pathways) 
network analysis elucidated that there is a strong relationship with microbiota 
(Paraprevotella xylaniphila YIT 11841, Bifidobacterium dentium, Paraprevotella 
clara YIT 11840, Enterococcus sp. 45, Bacteroides sp. 45, Bacillus sp. 46, 
Escherichia sp. 33, Enterococcus casseliflavus, Bacteroides uniformis, Alistipes 
indistinctus YIT 12060, Bacteroides ovatus, Escherichia sp. 12, and Odoribacter 
laneus YIT 12061) and AD pathogenesis. In addition to this, we performed 
molecular docking to study the metabolite interactions in the AD drug targets. 
The ADME/T properties of these metabolites were also calculated and the results 
are discussed in detail.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s11030-024-11028-y
PMID: 39499489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


94. J Extracell Vesicles. 2024 Nov;13(11):e12519. doi: 10.1002/jev2.12519.

Extracellular vesicles from human-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neural 
stem cells alleviate proinflammatory cascades within disease-associated 
microglia in Alzheimer's disease.

Madhu LN(1), Kodali M(1), Upadhya R(1), Rao S(1), Somayaji Y(1), Attaluri S(1), 
Shuai B(1), Kirmani M(1), Gupta S(2), Maness N(1), Rao X(1), Cai JJ(2), Shetty 
AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Department of Cell Biology and Genetics, 
College of Medicine, Texas A&M University Health Science Center, College 
Station, Texas, USA.
(2)Department of Veterinary Integrative Biosciences, Texas A&M College of 
Veterinary Medicine, College Station, Texas, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Jan 19:2024.01.18.576313. doi: 10.1101/2024.01.18.576313.

As current treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) lack disease-modifying 
interventions, novel therapies capable of restraining AD progression and 
maintaining better brain function have great significance. Anti-inflammatory 
extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from human induced pluripotent stem cell 
(hiPSC)-derived neural stem cells (NSCs) hold promise as a disease-modifying 
biologic for AD. This study directly addressed this issue by examining the 
effects of intranasal (IN) administrations of hiPSC-NSC-EVs in 3-month-old 5xFAD 
mice. IN administered hiPSC-NSC-EVs incorporated into microglia, including 
plaque-associated microglia, and encountered astrocyte soma and processes in the 
brain. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed transcriptomic changes indicative of 
diminished activation of microglia and astrocytes. Multiple genes linked to 
disease-associated microglia, NOD-, LRR-, and pyrin domain-containing protein 3 
(NLRP3)-inflammasome and interferon-1 (IFN-1) signalling displayed reduced 
expression in microglia. Adding hiPSC-NSC-EVs to cultured human microglia 
challenged with amyloid-beta oligomers resulted in similar effects. Astrocytes 
also displayed reduced expression of genes linked to IFN-1 and interleukin-6 
signalling. Furthermore, the modulatory effects of hiPSC-NSC-EVs on microglia in 
the hippocampus persisted 2 months post-EV treatment without impacting their 
phagocytosis function. Such effects were evidenced by reductions in microglial 
clusters and inflammasome complexes, concentrations of mediators, and end 
products of NLRP3 inflammasome activation, the expression of genes and/or 
proteins involved in the activation of p38/mitogen-activated protein kinase and 
IFN-1 signalling, and unaltered phagocytosis function. The extent of astrocyte 
hypertrophy, amyloid-beta plaques, and p-tau were also reduced in the 
hippocampus. Such modulatory effects of hiPSC-NSC-EVs also led to better 
cognitive and mood function. Thus, early hiPSC-NSC-EV intervention in AD can 
maintain better brain function by reducing adverse neuroinflammatory signalling 
cascades, amyloid-beta plaque load, and p-tau. These results reflect the first 
demonstration of the efficacy of hiPSC-NSC-EVs to restrain neuroinflammatory 
signalling cascades in an AD model by inducing transcriptomic changes in 
activated microglia and reactive astrocytes.

© 2024 The Author(s). Journal of Extracellular Vesicles published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.

DOI: 10.1002/jev2.12519
PMCID: PMC11536387
PMID: 39499013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


95. Eur J Neurol. 2025 Jan;32(1):e16534. doi: 10.1111/ene.16534. Epub 2024 Nov 5.

Mild cognitive impairment and early Alzheimer's disease eligibility for disease 
modification therapies in a tertiary centre for cognitive disorders: A 
simultaneous real-word study on aducanumab and lecanemab.

Logroscino G(1)(2), Urso D(1), Gnoni V(1), Giugno A(1), Vilella D(1), Castri 
A(3), Barone R(1), Nigro S(1), Zecca C(1), De Blasi R(3), Introna A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Research in Neurology, Centre for Neurodegenerative 
Diseases and the Aging Brain, University of Bari 'Aldo Moro', 'Pia Fondazione 
Cardinale G. Panico', Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Translational Biomedicine and Neurosciences (DiBraiN), 
University of Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Pia Fondazione 'Card. G. Panico', Tricase, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The Food and Drug Administration approved two 
disease-modifying treatments (DMTs) for Alzheimer's disease (AD), aducanumab and 
lecanemab, with limited clinical impact but significant biomarker changes. 
Identifying suitable candidates for these DMTs outside randomized clinical 
trials (RCTs) remains uncertain.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study, conducted in an Italian tertiary centre for 
cognitive disorders, aimed to evaluate how the RCT eligibility criteria for DMT 
treatments applies to participants with early AD. The broader Cummings et al. 
(Journal of Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease, 2021, 2023) criteria and the 
clinical differences between DMT candidates were also assessed.
RESULTS: The study involved 408 participants (mean age 71.1 ± 8.5 years, 48% 
male) with a clinical diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (161/408, 39.5%) or 
mild dementia (247/408, 60.5%). Amongst them, 169 individuals (41%) showed 
positive AD pathology biomarkers. Eligibility RCT assessment revealed 14 
patients eligible for aducanumab (3.43% of 408) and 28 for lecanemab (6.86% of 
408). Following Cummings' real-world criteria, aducanumab eligibility increased 
to 9.56%, whereas lecanemab eligibility rose to 8.33%. Applying selection 
criteria to only the amyloid positive (169 out of 408), the selection for DMTs 
was 8.3% for aducanumab and 16.5% for lecanemab.
CONCLUSION: Amongst subjects diagnosed with mild AD and mild cognitive 
impairment in a tertiary centre for cognitive disorders, only a small percentage 
of patients using RCT diagnostic criteria are eligible for DMT. The application 
of Cummings criteria strongly increased the DMT candidates. Nevertheless, the 
majority of patients with cognitive disorders have been excluded from DMTs 
approved so far.

© 2024 The Author(s). European Journal of Neurology published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/ene.16534
PMCID: PMC11622275
PMID: 39498901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Giancarlo Logroscino has served as investigator 
for clinical trials sponsored by Biogen Pharmaceuticals, Axovant, Alector, 
Denali, Roche, Eisai, Genentech, Amylyx, PIAM Farmaceutici SpA. He has served as 
a consultant and has given lectures for EISAI, Roche, Lilly, Piam Farmaceutici 
Spa, Biogen.


96. Cardiovasc Res. 2025 May 6;121(4):537-549. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvae235.

Causal cardiovascular risk factors for dementia: insights from observational and 
genetic studies.

Kjeldsen EW(1), Frikke-Schmidt R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Copenhagen University 
Hospital-Rigshospitalet, Blegdamsvej 9, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.

The escalating prevalence of dementia worldwide necessitates preventive 
strategies to mitigate its extensive health, psychological, and social impacts. 
As the prevalence of dementia continues to rise, gaining insights into its risk 
factors and causes becomes paramount, given the absence of a definitive cure. 
Cardiovascular disease has emerged as a prominent player in the complex 
landscape of dementia. Preventing dyslipidaemia, unhealthy western-type diets, 
hypertension, diabetes, being overweight, physical inactivity, smoking, and high 
alcohol intake have the potential to diminish not only cardiovascular disease 
but also dementia. The purpose of this review is to present our current 
understanding of cardiovascular risk factors for Alzheimer's disease and 
vascular dementia (VaD) by using clinical human data from observational, genetic 
studies and clinical trials, while elaborating on potential mechanisms. 
Hypertension and Type 2 diabetes surface as significant causal risk factors for 
both Alzheimer's disease and VaD, as consistently illustrated in observational 
and Mendelian randomization studies. Anti-hypertensive drugs and physical 
activity have been shown to improve cognitive function in clinical trials. 
Important to note is that robust genome-wide association studies are lacking for 
VaD, and indeed more and prolonged clinical trials are needed to establish these 
findings and investigate other risk factors. Trials should strategically target 
individuals at the highest dementia risk, identified using risk charts 
incorporating genetic markers, biomarkers, and cardiovascular risk factors. 
Understanding causal risk factors for dementia will optimize preventive 
measures, and the implementation of well-known therapeutics can halt or 
alleviate dementia symptoms if started early. Needless to mention is that future 
health policies should prioritize primordial prevention from early childhood to 
prevent risk factors from even occurring in the first place. Together, 
understanding the role of cardiovascular risk factors in dementia, improving 
genome-wide association studies for VaD, and advancing clinical trials are 
crucial steps in addressing this significant public health challenge.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvae235
PMCID: PMC12054631
PMID: 39498825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: none declared.


97. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2024 Nov 5;11(11):CD001747. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD001747.pub4.

Galantamine for dementia due to Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive 
impairment.

Lim AWY(1)(2)(3), Schneider L(4), Loy C(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology, Institute for Clinical Research, National 
Institutes of Health, Ministry of Health Malaysia, Shah Alam, Malaysia.
(2)Statistical Genetics, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, 
Australia.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.
(4)Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(5)Macquarie Medical School, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2006 Jan 25;(1):CD001747. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD001747.pub3.

BACKGROUND: Dementia leads to progressive cognitive decline, and represents a 
significant health and societal burden. Its prevalence is growing, with 
Alzheimer's disease as the leading cause. There is no cure for Alzheimer's 
disease, but there are regulatory-approved pharmacological interventions, such 
as galantamine, for symptomatic relief. This review updates the 2006 version.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effects, including adverse effects, of 
galantamine in people with probable or possible Alzheimer's disease or mild 
cognitive impairment, and to investigate potential moderators of effect.
SEARCH METHODS: We systematically searched the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive 
Improvement Group's Specialised Register on 14 December 2022 using the term 
'galantamine'. The Register contains records of clinical trials identified from 
major electronic databases (including CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and Embase), trial 
registries, grey literature sources, and conference proceedings. We manually 
searched reference lists and collected information from US Food and Drug 
Administration documents and unpublished trial reports. We imposed no language 
restrictions.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included double-blind, parallel-group, randomised 
controlled trials comparing oral galantamine with placebo for a treatment 
duration exceeding four weeks in people with dementia due to Alzheimer's disease 
or with mild cognitive impairment.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Working independently, two review authors selected 
studies for inclusion, assessed their quality, and extracted data. Outcomes of 
interest included cognitive function, change in global function, activities of 
daily living, functional disability, behavioural function, and adverse events. 
We used a fixed-effect model for meta-analytic synthesis, and presented results 
as Peto odds ratios (OR) or weighted mean differences (MD) with 95% confidence 
intervals. We used Cochrane's original risk of bias tool (RoB 1) to assess the 
risk of bias in the included studies.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 21 studies with a total of 10,990 participants. The 
average age of participants was 74 years, and 37% were male. The studies' 
durations ranged from eight weeks to two years, with 24 weeks being the most 
common duration. One newly included study assessed the effects of galantamine at 
two years, and another newly included study involved participants with severe 
Alzheimer's disease. Nineteen studies with 10,497 participants contributed data 
to the meta-analysis. All studies had low to unclear risk of bias for 
randomisation, allocation concealment, and blinding. We judged four studies to 
be at high risk of bias due to attrition and two due to selective outcome 
reporting. Galantamine for dementia due to Alzheimer's disease We summarise only 
the results for galantamine given at 8 to 12 mg twice daily (total galantamine 
16 mg to 24 mg/day), assessed at six months. See the full review for results of 
other dosing regimens and assessment time points. There is high-certainty 
evidence that, compared to placebo, galantamine improves: cognitive function, as 
assessed with the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale - Cognitive Subscale 
(ADAS-cog) (MD-2.86, 95% CI -3.29 to -2.43; 6 studies, 3049 participants; 
minimum clinically important effect (MCID) = 2.6- to 4-point change); functional 
disability, as assessed with the Disability Assessment for Dementia (DAD) scale 
(MD 2.12, 95% CI 0.75 to 3.49; 3 studies, 1275 participants); and behavioural 
function, as assessed with the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) (MD -1.63, 95% 
CI -3.07 to -0.20; 2 studies, 1043 participants) at six months. Galantamine may 
improve global function at six months, as assessed with the Clinician's 
Interview-Based Impression of Change plus Caregiver Input (CIBIC-plus) (OR 1.58, 
95% CI 1.36 to 1.84; 6 studies, 3002 participants; low-certainty evidence). 
Participants who received galantamine were more likely than placebo-treated 
participants to discontinue prematurely (22.7% versus 17.2%) (OR 1.41, 95% CI 
1.19 to 1.68; 6 studies, 3336 participants; high-certainty evidence), and 
experience nausea (20.9% versus 8.4%) (OR 2.89, 95% CI 2.40 to 3.49; 7 studies, 
3616 participants; high-certainty evidence) during the studies. Galantamine 
reduced death rates at six months: 1.3% of participants in the galantamine 
groups had died compared to 2.3% in the placebo groups (OR 0.56, 95% CI 0.33 to 
0.96; 6 studies, 3493 participants; high-certainty evidence). Galantamine for 
mild cognitive impairment We summarise results, assessed at two years, from two 
studies that gave participants galantamine at 8 to 12 mg twice daily (total 
galantamine 16 mg to 24 mg/day). Compared to placebo, galantamine may not 
improve cognitive function, as assessed with the expanded ADAS-cog for mild 
cognitive impairment (MD -0.21, 95% CI -0.78 to 0.37; 2 studies, 1901 
participants; low-certainty evidence) or activities of daily living, assessed 
with the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study - Activities of Daily Living 
scale for mild cognitive impairment (MD 0.30, 95% CI -0.26 to 0.86; 2 studies, 
1901 participants; low-certainty evidence). Participants who received 
galantamine were probably more likely to discontinue prematurely than 
placebo-treated participants (40.7% versus 28.6%) (OR 1.71, 95% CI 1.42 to 2.05; 
2 studies, 2057 participants) and to experience nausea (29.4% versus 10.7%) (OR 
3.49, 95% CI 2.75 to 4.44; 2 studies, 2057 participants), both with 
moderate-certainty evidence. Galantamine may not reduce death rates at 24 months 
compared to placebo (0.5% versus 0.1%) (OR 5.03, 95% CI 0.87 to 29.10; 2 
studies, 2057 participants; low-certainty evidence). Results from subgroup 
analysis and meta-regression suggest that an imbalance in discontinuation rates 
between galantamine and placebo groups, together with the use of the 'last 
observation carried forward' approach to outcome assessment, may potentially 
bias cognitive outcomes in favour of galantamine.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Compared to placebo, galantamine (when given at a total 
dose of 16 mg to 24 mg/day) slows the decline in cognitive function, functional 
ability, and behaviour at six months in people with dementia due to Alzheimer's 
disease. Galantamine probably also slows declines in global function at six 
months. The changes observed in cognition, assessed with the ADAS-cog scale, 
were clinically meaningful. Gastrointestinal-related adverse events are the 
primary concerns associated with galantamine use in people with dementia, which 
may limit its tolerability. Although death rates were generally low, 
participants in the galantamine groups had a reduced risk of death compared to 
those in the placebo groups. There is no evidence to support the use of 
galantamine in people with mild cognitive impairment.

Copyright © 2024 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001747.pub4
PMCID: PMC11536474
PMID: 39498781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Amanda Wei‐Yin Lim: none known Lon Schneider: 
works at the University of Southern California, USC; has received funds for 
research from Biogen, Eli Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Roche/Genentech, and TauRx; 
has received consultancy fees from Alpha‐cognition and Corium. Clement Loy: none 
known


98. Front Neurosci. 2024 Oct 21;18:1417178. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1417178. 
eCollection 2024.

Near-infrared light stimulation regulates neural oscillation and memory behavior 
of mice with Alzheimer's disease.

Zhang S(1), Wang X(1), Jiao H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, China.

Photobiomodulation (PBM) is a non-invasive neuromodulation technique for the 
brain. Low-intensity near-infrared light (1-500 mw) has demonstrated the ability 
to improve memory in Alzheimer's disease (AD) model mice, suggesting its 
potential for AD treatment. However, the impact of PBM on neural oscillations in 
the hippocampal region affected by AD remains unknown. In this study, AD model 
mice were subjected to PBM for 60 days and then tested using novel object 
recognition behavior (NOR) experiments. During behavioral experiments, local 
field potential signals (LFP) of the mice was recorded using a single electrode 
in the CA1 region to analyze memory ability and neural oscillation 
characteristics. The results revealed that mice stimulated with PBM exhibited 
significantly higher new object differentiation indices compared to the Sham 
group (p < 0.01). Furthermore, PBM stimulation led to a significant increase in 
relative power and sample entropy of theta and gamma bands (p < 0.01). The 
coupling intensities of θ-low-γ and θ-high-γ were also significantly higher in 
the PBM group compared to the Sham group (p < 0.01). In conclusion, these 
findings suggest that PBM may improve memory ability in AD mice through 
regulation of neural oscillation characteristics, providing a theoretical basis 
for utilizing PBM as a treatment modality for Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2024 Zhang, Wang and Jiao.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1417178
PMCID: PMC11532060
PMID: 39498394

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


99. Heliyon. 2024 Oct 9;10(20):e39104. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39104. 
eCollection 2024 Oct 30.

Middle-aged dogs with low and high Aβ CSF concentrations show differences in 
energy and stress related metabolic profiles in CSF.

Borghys H(1), Schwab A(2), Keppler B(2).

Author information:
(1)Janssen Research & Development, a division of Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., 
Beerse, Belgium.
(2)Metabolon, Morrisville, NC, United States.

BACKGROUND: Amyloid beta (Aβ) accumulation in the brain is one of the earliest 
findings in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The dog is a natural animal model for 
amyloid processing and early brain amyloid pathology. The goal of this study is 
to examine which differences in metabolomic profiles in cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) could be detected in dogs with a difference in CSF Aβ concentrations 
before amyloid accumulation occurs.
METHOD: Metabolic profiling was performed on CSF from 4 to 8 year old dogs with 
different CSF Aβ concentrations.
RESULTS: Metabolomic profiling of CSF showed differences in brain energy 
metabolism. More specifically, increases in N-acetylation of amino acids and 
amino sugars, creatine and pentose metabolism, and a decrease in tricarboxylic 
acid (TCA) cycle were seen in dogs with a high CSF Aβ concentration. In 
addition, signs of elevated oxidative stress, higher methionine, lipid and 
nucleotide metabolism and increased levels of cysteine, myo-inositol and 
trimethylamine N-oxide were noted in these animals.
CONCLUSIONS: Differences in energy metabolism and stress mediated metabolic 
changes are seen in the brain of dogs with different CSF Aβ concentrations, 
before any amyloid deposition occurs. Similar metabolic changes, as in the high 
Aβ dogs, have been described in AD in humans and/or transgenic AD mice, some of 
them in very early phases.
GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: The differences observed in metabolomic profiles could 
help in identifying potential biomarkers for an increased risk of developing 
amyloid pathology in the brain and open the door to the evaluation of preventive 
treatments for amyloid pathology in humans.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39104
PMCID: PMC11532822
PMID: 39498015

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following financial 
interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing 
interests:Herman Borghys reports financial support was provided by 
10.13039/100008897Janssen Pharmaceutica NV. Herman Borghys reports a 
relationship with Janssen Pharmaceutica NV that includes: employment and equity 
or stocks.


100. Heliyon. 2024 Oct 18;10(20):e39571. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39571. 
eCollection 2024 Oct 30.

Pharmacological inhibition of PLK2 kinase activity mitigates cognitive decline 
but aggravates APP pathology in a sex-dependent manner in APP/PS1 mouse model of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Martínez-Drudis L(1)(2), Bérard M(1)(2), Musiol D(1)(2), Rivest S(1)(2), 
Oueslati A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)CHU de Québec-Université Laval Research Center, Neuroscience Axis, 2705 
Boulevard Laurier, Quebec City, Canada.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Université Laval, 
Quebec City, Canada.

Converging evidence from clinical and experimental studies suggest the potential 
significance of Polo-like kinase 2 (PLK2) in regulating the phosphorylation and 
toxicity of the Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related protein, amyloid precursor 
protein (APP). These findings have prompted various experimental trials aimed at 
inhibiting PLK2 kinase activity in different transgenic mouse models of AD. 
While positive impacts on cognitive decline were reported in these studies, the 
cellular effects remained controversial. In the present study, we sought to 
assess the cognitive and cellular consequences of chronic PLK2 inhibitor 
treatment in the APP/PS1 transgenic mouse model of AD. First, we confirmed that 
inhibiting PLK2 prevented cognitive decline in a sex-dependent manner, 
particularly by enhancing working memory in male APP/PS1 mice. Surprisingly, 
cellular analysis revealed that treatment with PLK2 inhibitor increased the load 
of amyloid plaques and elevated levels of soluble amyloid β (Aβ) 40 and Aβ42 in 
the cortex, as well as insoluble Aβ42 in the hippocampus of female mice, without 
affecting APP pathology in males. These results underscore the potential of PLK2 
inhibition to mitigate cognitive symptoms in males. However, paradoxically, it 
intensifies amyloid pathology in females by enhancing APP amyloidogenic 
processing, creating a controversial aspect to its therapeutic impact. Overall, 
these data highlight the sex-dependent nature of the effects of PLK2 inhibition, 
which may also be influenced by the genetic background of the transgenic mouse 
model utilized.

© 2024 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39571
PMCID: PMC11532864
PMID: 39498012

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following financial 
interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing 
interests:Abid Oueslati reports financial support was provided by Quebec Health 
Research Fund. Abid Oueslati reports financial support was provided by 
10.13039/501100000143Alzheimer Society of Canada. Serge Rivest reports financial 
support was provided by 10.13039/501100000024Canadian Institutes of Health 
Research. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.