1. Ageing Res Rev. 2024 Nov;101:102471. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102471. Epub 2024
 Aug 31.

Emerging microglial biology highlights potential therapeutic targets for 
Alzheimer's disease.

Fan X(1), Chen H(2), He W(3), Zhang J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, CAMS Key laboratory T cell and Cancer 
Immunotherapy, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, State Key 
Laboratory of Common Mechanism Research for Major Diseases, Beijing 
100005, China; Research Unit of Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Nasal 
Diseases, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Immunology, CAMS Key laboratory T cell and Cancer 
Immunotherapy, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, State Key 
Laboratory of Common Mechanism Research for Major Diseases, Beijing 
100005, China. Electronic address: chenhui@ibms.pumc.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Immunology, CAMS Key laboratory T cell and Cancer 
Immunotherapy, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, State Key 
Laboratory of Common Mechanism Research for Major Diseases, Beijing 
100005, China. Electronic address: heweingd@126.com.
(4)Department of Immunology, CAMS Key laboratory T cell and Cancer 
Immunotherapy, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, State Key 
Laboratory of Common Mechanism Research for Major Diseases, Beijing 
100005, China; Changzhou Xitaihu Institute for Frontier Technology of Cell 
Therapy, Changzhou, Jiangsu 213000, China. Electronic address: jzhang42@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease is a chronic degenerative disease of the central nervous 
system, which primarily affects elderly people and accounts for 70-80 % of 
dementia cases. The current prevailing amyloid cascade hypothesis suggests that 
Alzheimer's disease begins with the deposition of amyloid β (Aβ) in the brain. 
Major therapeutic strategies target Aβ production, aggregation, and clearance, 
although many clinical trials have shown that these therapeutic strategies are 
not sufficient to completely improve cognitive deficits in AD patients. Recent 
genome-wide association studies have identified that multiple important 
regulators are the most significant genetic risk factors for Alzheimer's 
disease, especially in the innate immune pathways. These genetic risk factors 
suggest a critical role for microglia, highlighting their therapeutic potential 
in treating neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we discuss how these 
recently documented AD risk genes affect microglial function and AD pathology 
and how they can be further targeted to regulate microglial states and slow AD 
progression, especially the highly anticipated APOE and TREM2 targets. We 
focused on recent findings that modulation of innate and adaptive neuroimmune 
microenvironment crosstalk reverses cognitive deficits in AD patients. We also 
considered novel strategies for microglia in AD patients.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102471
PMID: 39218078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. Eur J Med Chem. 2024 Nov 15;278:116800. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116800.
Epub  2024 Aug 27.

Rational design of a high-affinity fluorescent probe for visualizing monitoring 
the amyloid β clearance effect of anti-Alzheimer's disease drug candidates.

You H(1), Song Y(1), Yang Y(1), Wang X(1), Pan S(1), Huang J(1), Shao Q(1), Shi 
D(2), Li B(3), Li J(4), Li X(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, Shanghai Frontiers Science 
Center of Optogenetic Techniques for Cell Metabolism, Frontiers Science Center 
for Materiobiology and Dynamic Chemistry, Shanghai Key Laboratory of New Drug 
Design, School of Pharmacy, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hainan University, Haikou, 570228, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hainan University, Haikou, 570228, China. 
Electronic address: baolili@hainanu.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, Shanghai Frontiers Science 
Center of Optogenetic Techniques for Cell Metabolism, Frontiers Science Center 
for Materiobiology and Dynamic Chemistry, Shanghai Key Laboratory of New Drug 
Design, School of Pharmacy, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China; Key Laboratory of Xinjiang Phytomedicine Resource and 
Utilization, Ministry of Education, School of Pharmacy, Shihezi University, 
Shihezi, 832003, China; Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of 
Ministry of Education, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hainan University, 
Haikou, 570228, China. Electronic address: jianli@ecust.edu.cn.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, Shanghai Frontiers Science 
Center of Optogenetic Techniques for Cell Metabolism, Frontiers Science Center 
for Materiobiology and Dynamic Chemistry, Shanghai Key Laboratory of New Drug 
Design, School of Pharmacy, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China. Electronic address: xkli@ecust.edu.cn.

Beta-amyloid (Aβ), the most pivotal pathological hallmark for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) diagnosis and drug evaluation, was recognized by TZ095, a 
high-affinity fluorescent probe developed by rational molecular design. With a 
TICT mechanism, TZ095 exhibited remarkable affinity with Aβ aggregates 
(Kd = 81.54 nM for oligomers; Kd = 66.70 nM for fibril) and substantial 
fluorescence enhancement (F/F0 = 44), enabling real-time monitoring of Aβ in 
live cells and nematodes. Significantly, this work used TZ095 to construct a new 
protocol that can quickly and conveniently monitor Aβ changes at the cellular 
and nematode levels to evaluate the anti-AD efficacy of candidate compounds, and 
four reported Aβ-lowering drug candidates were administrated for validation. 
Imaging data demonstrated that TZ095 can visually and quantitatively track the 
effect of Aβ elimination after drug treatment. Furthermore, TZ095 excelled in ex 
vivo histological staining of 12-month-old APP/PS1 mouse brains, accurately 
visualizing Aβ plaques. Integrating CUBIC technology, TZ095 facilitated 
whole-brain, 3D imaging of Aβ distribution in APP/PS1 mice, enabling 
high-resolution in situ analysis of Aβ plaques. Collectively, these innovative 
applications of TZ095 offer a promising strategy for rapid, convenient, and 
real-time monitoring of Aβ levels in preclinical therapeutic assessments.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116800
PMID: 39217860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


3. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2024 Dec;89:1-9. doi:
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2024.08.006.  Epub 2024 Aug 31.

Forget me not: The effect of doxycycline on human declarative memory.

Wehrli JM(1), Xia Y(2), Meister L(2), Tursunova S(2), Kleim B(2), Bach DR(3), 
Quednow BB(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Adult Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital of 
Psychiatry Zurich, University of Zurich, Lenggstrasse 31, Zurich 8032, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: jelena.wehrli@uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Adult Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital of 
Psychiatry Zurich, University of Zurich, Lenggstrasse 31, Zurich 8032, 
Switzerland.
(3)Department of Adult Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital of 
Psychiatry Zurich, University of Zurich, Lenggstrasse 31, Zurich 8032, 
Switzerland; University of Bonn, Transdisciplinary Research Area "Life and 
Health", Hertz Chair for Artificial Intelligence and Neuroscience, Bonn, 
Germany.
(4)Experimental Pharmacopsychology and Psychological Addiction Research, 
Department of Adult Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital of 
Psychiatry Zurich, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; Neuroscience 
Center Zurich, Joint Center of University of Zurich and Swiss Federal Institute 
of Technology Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

Investigations into neuroprotective drugs are in high demand for the treatment 
of neurodegenerative diseases, such as multiple sclerosis or Alzheimer's 
disease, but also psychiatric disorders, such as depression, trauma, and 
substance use. One potential drug class being investigated are tetracyclines 
impacting on a variety of neuroprotective mechanisms. At the same time, 
tetracyclines like doxycycline have been suggested to affect human fear and 
spatial memory as well as reducing declarative memory retention. Based on the 
assumed necessity for synaptic consolidation in hippocampus-dependent learning, 
we hypothesised declarative memory may be similarly impaired by doxycycline as 
fear and spatial memory. Therefore, in this study we investigate the potential 
diminishing effects of doxycycline on consolidation of declarative memory in 
healthy humans. Additionally, to test for effect specificity we assessed motor 
memory, sustained attention, and processing speed. We administered a 
neuropsychological test battery in three independent randomized 
placebo-controlled double-blind trials (RCTs), in which healthy young volunteers 
(total N = 252) either received a single oral dose doxycycline (200 mg, n = 126) 
or placebo (n = 126) in a between-subject design. We found no evidence for a 
detrimental effect of doxycycline on declarative memory; instead, doxycycline 
improved declarative learning (p-value=0.022, Cohen's d=0.15) and memory 
consolidation (p=0.040, d=0.26). Contrarily, doxycycline slightly reduced motor 
learning (p=0.001, d=0.10) but subtly strengthened long-term motor memory 
(p=0.001, d=0.10). These results suggest that doxycycline can improve 
declarative learning and memory without having long term negative effects on 
other cognitive domains in healthy humans. Our results give hope to further 
investigate doxycycline in neuroprotective treatment applications.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2024.08.006
PMID: 39217739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interests.


4. BMC Geriatr. 2024 Aug 31;24(1):725. doi: 10.1186/s12877-024-05323-4.

Experiences managing behavioral symptoms among Latino caregivers of Latino older 
adults with dementia and memory problems: a qualitative study.

Keller MS(1)(2)(3), Guevara N(4), Guerrero JA(5), Mays AM(4), McCleskey SG(6), 
Reyes CE(7), Sarkisian CA(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)USC Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, 3715 McClintock Avenue , Los 
Angeles, CA, 90089, USA. michelle.keller@usc.edu.
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, Fielding School of Public Health, 
University of California-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. 
michelle.keller@usc.edu.
(3)Division of General Internal Medicine and Health Services Research, 
Department of Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA. michelle.keller@usc.edu.
(4)Section of Geriatric Medicine, Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical 
Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(5)David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(6)RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, CA, USA.
(7)Division of General Internal Medicine and Health Services Research, 
Department of Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.
(8)Geriatric Research Education Clinical Center (GRECC), VA Greater Los Angeles 
Healthcare System, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Latinos are more likely than non-Latino Whites to develop dementia 
and be prescribed antipsychotics for dementia-related behavioral symptoms. 
Antipsychotics have significant risks yet are often overprescribed. Our 
understanding of how Latino caregivers of Latino older adults living with 
dementia perceive and address behavioral issues is limited, impeding our ability 
to address the root causes of antipsychotic overprescribing.
METHODS: We interviewed Latino older adults' caregivers and community-based 
organization workers serving older adults with cognitive impairment (key 
informants), focusing on the management of behavioral symptoms and experiences 
with health services.
RESULTS: We interviewed 8 caregivers and 2 key informants. Caregivers were the 
spouses, children, or grandchildren of the older adult living with cognitive 
impairment; their ages ranged from 30 to 95. We identified three categories of 
how caregivers learned about, managed, and coped with behavioral symptoms: 
caregivers often faced shortcomings with dementia care in the medical system, 
receiving limited guidance and support; caregivers found community organizations 
and senior day centers to be lifelines, as they received relevant, timely advice 
and support, caregivers often devised their own creative strategies to manage 
behavioral symptoms.
CONCLUSION: In-depth interviews suggest that the healthcare system is failing to 
provide support for behavioral symptoms from dementia; caregivers of Latino 
older adults rely on community organizations instead.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-024-05323-4
PMCID: PMC11365257
PMID: 39217285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


5. Geriatr Nurs. 2024 Sep-Oct;59:697-700. doi: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2024.08.046. 
Epub 2024 Aug 30.

Interprofessional insights in Agitation in Alzheimer's disease: An interview 
with the experts from Emory Integrated Memory Care.

Pettis J(1).

Author information:
(1)Director of Strategic Alliances, Gerontological Society of America, 
Washington, DC. Electronic address: jpettis@geron.org.

Agitation in Alzheimer's disease (AAD) is a troubling condition experienced by 
many of the 6.9 million people living with Alzheimer's disease in the United 
States. The Gerontological Society of America (GSA) initially published an 
evidence-based care pathway to treat this condition, Agitation in Alzheimer's 
Disease: A Decision Tree for Healthcare Providers, in 2022 and updated this 
resource in 2023 with the International Psychogeriatric Association (IPA) 
consensus definition of agitation. A new, research-informed screening tool 
launched in November 2023, the Agitation in Alzheimer's Screener for Caregivers 
(AASCTM), supports care teams in identifying individuals with AAD who can 
benefit from the evidence-based care outlined in the decision tree. This column 
features an interview with interprofessional dementia care experts from Emory 
Integrated Memory Care who share their insights into AAD, the significance of 
the condition, and how care teams can use the AASCTM and other strategies to 
detect AAD. By detecting AAD and implementing person-centered care to address 
the condition, care teams can improve quality of life for the individual with 
the condition and their caregiver.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2024.08.046
PMID: 39217079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
article.


6. Am J Clin Nutr. 2024 Nov;120(5):1009-1018. doi: 10.1016/j.ajcnut.2024.08.027. 
Epub 2024 Aug 30.

Associations among dietary 1-carbon metabolism nutrients, genetic risk, and 
Alzheimer disease: a prospective cohort study.

Wang Y(1), Mi N(2), Liao K(3), Li Y(4), Sun Y(5), Xie P(6), Hu L(7), Wu S(4), 
Liang Z(5), He Q(5), Li Z(1), Ma M(8), Yang K(9), Yuan J(10), Xia B(11), Li 
X(12).

Author information:
(1)Health Technology Assessment Center, School of Public Health, Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou, Gansu, China; The Cross-innovation Laboratory of 
Evidence-based Social Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu, China.
(2)The First School of Clinical Medicine, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu, 
China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation 
Center for Cancer Medicine, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, 
Guangdong, China.
(4)School of Medicine, Shenzhen Campus of Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong, China.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Clinical Big Data Research 
Center, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong, China; Chinese Health Risk Management Collaboration (CHRIMAC), 
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.
(6)Center for Digestive Disease, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.
(7)School of Public Health (Shenzhen), Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong, China.
(8)The Cross-innovation Laboratory of Evidence-based Social Sciences, Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou, Gansu, China; Evidence-Based Medicine Center, School of 
Basic Medical Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu, China.
(9)Health Technology Assessment Center, School of Public Health, Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou, Gansu, China; The Cross-innovation Laboratory of 
Evidence-based Social Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu, China; 
Evidence-Based Medicine Center, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou, Gansu, China.
(10)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Clinical Big Data Research 
Center, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong, China; Chinese Health Risk Management Collaboration (CHRIMAC), 
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. Electronic address: yuanjq5@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(11)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Clinical Big Data Research 
Center, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong, China; Chinese Health Risk Management Collaboration (CHRIMAC), 
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. Electronic address: xiab7@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(12)Health Technology Assessment Center, School of Public Health, Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou, Gansu, China; The Cross-innovation Laboratory of 
Evidence-based Social Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu, China. 
Electronic address: lixiuxia@lzu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The associations between 1-carbon metabolism (OCM) nutrients 
(methionine, folate, vitamin B-6, and vitamin B-12) and Alzheimer disease (AD) 
remains inconclusive.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to investigate the association of dietary OCM 
nutrients with subsequent risk of AD and further assess whether participants 
with high genetic risk for AD might benefit from dietary OCM nutrients.
METHODS: We analyzed data from 192,214 participants who completed at least one 
24-h dietary questionnaire and had no previous history of AD based on the UK 
Biobank. Nutrients intake was calculated using McCance and Widdowson's The 
Composition of Food and USDA's Food and Nutrient Database for Dietary Studies. 
Cox proportional models with restricted cubic splines were applied to explore 
the associations.
RESULTS: Over a median follow-up of 13.35 y, 959 cases of AD (41 early-onset 
cases and 918 late-onset cases) were identified. Compared with those in the 
low-intake OCM group (quartile 1), participants in the high-intake OCM group 
(quartile 4) had reduced risk of developing AD. The corresponding hazard ratios 
(HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for methionine, folate, vitamin B-6, 
and vitamin B-12 intake were 0.66 (0.54, 0.80), 0.71 (0.58, 0.87), 0.71 (0.59, 
0.87), and 0.77 (0.64, 0.93), respectively. Similar associations were observed 
in late-onset AD. In early-onset AD, high methionine and vitamin B-12 intake 
were associated with 70% (HR: 0.30; 95% CI: 0.10, 0.86) and 71% (HR: 0.29; 95% 
CI: 0.09, 0.96) reduction in risk, respectively. Participants with low genetic 
risk and high OCM nutrients intake had >75% reduced AD risk compared with 
high-risk, low-intake participants.
CONCLUSIONS: In this prospective cohort study, we found that higher intake of 
OCM nutrients is associated with reduced risk of AD. Participants with high 
genetic risk of AD are more likely to benefit from dietary OCM nutrients intake.

Copyright © 2024 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajcnut.2024.08.027
PMID: 39216592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Mol Metab. 2024 Nov;89:102019. doi: 10.1016/j.molmet.2024.102019. Epub 2024
Aug  30.

The GLP-1 medicines semaglutide and tirzepatide do not alter disease-related 
pathology, behaviour or cognitive function in 5XFAD and APP/PS1 mice.

Forny Germano L(1), Koehler JA(1), Baggio LL(1), Cui F(1), Wong CK(1), Rittig 
N(1), Cao X(1), Matthews D(1), Drucker DJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mt. Sinai Hospital, Toronto, M5G1X5, 
Canada.
(2)Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mt. Sinai Hospital, Toronto, M5G1X5, 
Canada. Electronic address: drucker@lunenfeld.ca.

OBJECTIVE: The development of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonists 
for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and obesity has been accompanied by 
evidence for anti-inflammatory and cytoprotective actions in the heart, blood 
vessels, kidney, and brain. Whether GLP-1R agonists might be useful clinically 
for attenuating deterioration of cognitive dysfunction and reducing the 
progression of Alzheimer's disease remains uncertain.
METHODS: Here we evaluated the actions of semaglutide and tirzepatide, 
clinically distinct GLP-1 medicines, in two mouse models of neurodegeneration.
RESULTS: Semaglutide reduced body weight and improved glucose tolerance in 
12-month-old male and female 5XFAD and APP/PS1 mice, consistent with 
pharmacological engagement of the GLP-1R. Nevertheless, amyloid plaque density 
was not different in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, or subiculum of 
semaglutide-treated 12-month-old 5XFAD and APP/PS1 mice. IBA1 and GFAP 
expression were increased in the hippocampus of 5XFAD and APP/PS1 mice but were 
not reduced by semaglutide. Moreover, parameters of neurobehavioral and 
cognitive function evaluated using Open Field testing or the Morris water maze 
were not improved following treatment with semaglutide. To explore whether 
incretin therapies might be more effective in younger mice, we studied 
semaglutide and tirzepatide action in 6-month-old male and female 5XFAD mice. 
Neither semaglutide nor tirzepatide modified the extent of plaque accumulation, 
hippocampal IBA1+ or GFAP+ cells, or parameters of neurobehavioral testing, 
despite improving glucose tolerance and reducing body weight. mRNA biomarkers of 
inflammation and neurodegeneration were increased in the hippocampus of male and 
female 5XFAD mice but were not reduced after treatment with semaglutide or 
tirzepatide.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these findings reveal preservation of the metabolic 
actions of two GLP-1 medicines, semaglutide and tirzepatide, yet inability to 
detect improvement in structural and functional parameters of neurodegeneration 
in two mouse models of Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmet.2024.102019
PMCID: PMC11408156
PMID: 39216535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Dr. Drucker 
has served as a consultant or speaker within the past 12 months to Altimmune, 
Amgen, AstraZeneca Boehringer Ingelheim, Kallyope, Merck Research Laboratories, 
Novo Nordisk Inc., Pfizer Inc. and Zealand Pharma Inc. Laurie Baggio is 
currently an employee of Avalere Health. None of the authors have anything else 
to declare.


8. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2024 Dec;244:114182. doi: 
10.1016/j.colsurfb.2024.114182. Epub 2024 Aug 30.

Blood-brain barrier permeable carbon nano-assemblies for amyloid-β clearance and 
neurotoxic attenuation.

Hou T(1), Yang Q(2), Ding M(1), Wang X(1), Mei K(1), Guan P(3), Wang C(4), Hu 
X(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, 
Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an 710072, PR China.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, School of Pharmacy, Air Force Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, PR China.
(3)Department of Chemistry, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, 
Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an 710072, PR China. Electronic 
address: guanping1113@nwpu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, School of Pharmacy, Air Force Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, PR China. Electronic address: wangchaoli2012@163.com.
(5)Department of Chemistry, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, 
Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an 710072, PR China. Electronic 
address: huxl@nwpu.edu.cn.

Abnormal amyloid β-protein (Aβ42) fibrillation is a key event in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), and photodynamic therapy (PDT) possesses great potential in 
modulating Aβ42 self-assembly. However, the poor blood-brain barrier (BBB) 
penetration, low biocompatibility, and limited tissue penetration depth of 
existing photosensitizers limit the progress of photo-oxidation strategies. In 
this paper, novel indocyanine green-modified graphene quantum dot 
nano-assemblies (NBGQDs-ICGs) were synthesized based on a molecular assembly 
strategy of electrostatic interactions for PDT inhibition of Aβ42 self-assembly 
process and decomposition of preformed fibrils under near-infrared light. 
Combining the small-size structure of graphene quantum dots and the 
near-infrared light-responsive properties of ICGs, the NBGQDs-ICGs could achieve 
BBB penetration under 808 nm irradiation. More importantly, the neuroprotective 
mechanism of NBGQDs-ICG was studied for the first time by AFM, which effectively 
weakened the adhesion of Aβ42 aggregates to the cell surface by blocking the 
interaction between Aβ42 and the cell membrane, and restored the mechanical 
stability and adhesion of the neuron membrane. Meanwhile, NBGQDs-ICG promoted 
phagocytosis of Aβ42 by microglia. In addition, the good biocompatibility and 
stability ensured the biosafety of NBGQDs-ICG in future clinical applications. 
We anticipate that such multifunctional nanocomponents may provide promising 
avenues for the development of novel AD inhibitors.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2024.114182
PMID: 39216441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


9. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2024 Aug;40(8):696-703.

[Fasudil improves cognitive function in APP/PS1 transgenic mice by promoting 
mitophagy and inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome activation].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu H(1), Zhang P(1), Yu J(1), Wang J(2), Yu J(3), Guo M(4).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Molecular Cellular Immunology in Datong, Institute of 
Brain Science, Shanxi Datong University, Datong 037009, China.
(2)The Key Research Laboratory of Benefiting Qi for Acting Blood Circulation 
Method to Treat Multiple Sclerosis of State Administration of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Neurobiology Research Center, Shanxi University of Chinese 
Medicine, Jinzhong 030619, China.
(3)The Key Laboratory of Molecular Cellular Immunology in Datong, Institute of 
Brain Science, Shanxi Datong University, Datong 037009; Department of neurology, 
First Affiliated Hospital of Shanxi Datong University, Datong fifth People's 
Hospital, Datong 037008, China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: sxdtyjz@qq.com.
(4)The Key Laboratory of Molecular Cellular Immunology in Datong, Institute of 
Brain Science, Shanxi Datong University, Datong 037009, China. *Corresponding 
authors, E-mail: guominfang103@163.com.

Objective To explore the mechanism of fasudil improving cognitive dysfunction in 
amyloid precursor protein/presenilin-1 (APP/PS1) transgenic mice based on 
mitophagy and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor family 
pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome pathway. Methods APP/PS1 mice 
were divided into model group and treatment group, and C57BL/6 mice were used as 
control group. The treatment group was given intraperitoneal injection of 
Fasudil (25 mg/kg) once daily for 2 months, while the control group and the 
model group were injected with the same volume of normal saline. The behavior of 
mice was detected by water maze and Y maze test; Nissl staining and 
neuron-specific nuclear antigen (NeuN) immunofluorescence histochemical staining 
were used to evaluate the number and morphology of neurons. Terminal 
deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling assay 
(TUNEL) staining was used to detect neuronal apoptosis; The expression of P62 
and NLRP3 was detected by immunofluorescence histochemical staining; Real time 
fluorescence quantitative PCR was used to detect the mRNA expression levels of 
phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN) -induced 
putative kinase 1 (PINK1), Parkin and NLRP3; Western blot analysis was used to 
detect the expression of PINK1, Parkin, P62, microtubule-associated protein 1 
light chain 3 (LC3), NLRP3, adapter protein apoptosis-associated speck-like 
protein (ASC) and interleukin-18 (IL-18). Results The results of the water maze 
and Y maze showed that the cognitive behavior of mice in treatment group was 
significantly improved, and their spatial memory and exploration abilities were 
significantly enhanced; The results of Nissl staining and NeuN 
immunofluorescence histochemical staining showed that the number of neurons and 
Nissl bodies were lower in the model group than that in the control group, while 
the morphology and number of neurons were improved after fasudil treatment. The 
results of TUNEL staining also showed that the number of apoptotic cells in the 
brain tissue of APP/PS1 mice were decreased after fasudil treatment; Compared 
with the control group, the expression of PINK1 and Parkin in the model group 
decreased, while the expression of P62, LC3, NLRP3, ASC and IL-18 increased. 
After treatment with fasudil, the expression of PINK1, Parkin, and LC3 
increased, while the expression of P62, NLRP3, ASC, and IL-18 decreased. 
Conclusions Fasudil can improve the cognitive function and neuronal damage in 
APP/PS1 mice, and its mechanism may be related to promoting mitochondrial 
autophagy and inhibiting the activation of NLRP3 inflammasomes.

PMID: 39215667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Brain Res. 2024 Dec 15;1845:149192. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149192. Epub
 2024 Aug 28.

Irisin in ischemic stroke, Alzheimer's disease and depression: a Narrative 
Review.

Zhang QX(1), Zhang LJ(1), Zhao N(1), Yang L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tianjin Neurological Institute, Tianjin Medical 
University General Hospital, Tianjin 300052, PR China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Tianjin Neurological Institute, Tianjin Medical 
University General Hospital, Tianjin 300052, PR China. Electronic address: 
yangli2001@tmu.edu.cn.

Irisin is a glycosylated protein formed from the hydrolysis of fibronectin type 
III domain-containing protein 5 (FNDC5). Irisin is widely involved in the 
regulation of glucose and lipid metabolism. In addition, recent studies have 
demonstrated that Irisin can inhibit inflammation, restrain oxidative stress and 
have neuroprotective effects, which suggests that Irisin may have a good 
therapeutic effect on central nervous system diseases. Therefore, this review 
summarizes the role of Irisin in central nervous system diseases, including its 
signal pathways and possible mechanisms, etc. Irisin may be a potential 
candidate drug for the treatment of central nervous system diseases.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149192
PMID: 39214327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


11. J Pharm Anal. 2024 Oct;14(10):100997. doi: 10.1016/j.jpha.2024.100997. Epub
2024  May 8.

miR-135b: An emerging player in cardio-cerebrovascular diseases.

Shao Y(1), Xu J(1), Chen W(1), Hao M(1), Liu X(1), Zhang R(1), Wang Y(1), Dong 
Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, Qingdao University, Qingdao 
Cancer Institute, Qingdao, 266071, China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao 
University, Qingdao, 266071, China.

miR-135 is a highly conserved miRNA in mammals and includes miR-135a and 
miR-135b. Recent studies have shown that miR-135b is a key regulatory factor in 
cardio-cerebrovascular diseases. It is involved in regulating the pathological 
process of myocardial infarction, myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury, 
cardiac hypertrophy, atrial fibrillation, diabetic cardiomyopathy, 
atherosclerosis, pulmonary hypertension, cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury, 
Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. Obviously, miR-135b is an emerging 
player in cardio-cerebrovascular diseases and is expected to be an important 
target for the treatment of cardio-cerebrovascular diseases. However, the 
crucial role of miR-135b in cardio-cerebrovascular diseases and its underlying 
mechanism of action has not been reviewed. Therefore, in this review, we aimed 
to comprehensively summarize the role of miR-135b and the signaling pathway 
mediated by miR-135b in cardio-cerebrovascular diseases. Drugs targeting 
miR-135b for the treatment of diseases and related patents, highlighting the 
importance of this target and its utility as a therapeutic target for 
cardio-cerebrovascular diseases, have been discussed.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpha.2024.100997
PMCID: PMC11350494
PMID: 39211791

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


12. Eur J Pharmacol. 2024 Nov 5;982:176958. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.176958.
Epub  2024 Aug 30.

Management of Alzheimer's disease and related neurotoxic pathologies: Role of 
thiamine, pyridoxine and cobalamin.

Ekundayo BE(1), Adewale OB(2), Obafemi BA(3), Afolabi OB(2), Obafemi TO(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry Afe Babalola University, PMB 5454, Ado-Ekiti, 
Nigeria. Electronic address: emmanuel.bidemi.2017@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biochemistry Afe Babalola University, PMB 5454, Ado-Ekiti, 
Nigeria.
(3)Department of Medical Biochemistry Afe Babalola University, PMB 5454, 
Ado-Ekiti, Nigeria.
(4)Department of Biochemistry Afe Babalola University, PMB 5454, Ado-Ekiti, 
Nigeria; Department of Life and Consumer Sciences, School of Agriculture and 
Life Sciences, University of South Florida Park, Roodepoort, 1709, Johannesburg, 
South Africa.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains one of the most debilitating disease and most 
common neurological disorder in the world at large. However, with many years of 
multiple research and billions of dollars invested for the purpose of research, 
not many therapeutic options exist for the management of this disease. As at 
2023, the number has only increased to 7, one of which is a combination of two 
existing therapies. However, research has continued still in the search for a 
cure. The roles and functions of thiamine, pyridoxine and cobalamin in the 
proper function of the nervous system has been well researched over time and 
their role in the management of neurological diseases have been of interest in 
the last decade. This review describes the roles of the aforementioned chemicals 
in the management of different models of AD and AD-like pathologies as 
mono-therapeutic agents and prospective adjuvant for combination therapy.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.176958
PMID: 39209095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


13. Brain. 2025 Mar 6;148(3):941-954. doi: 10.1093/brain/awae278.

Brain-penetrant complement inhibition mitigates neurodegeneration in an 
Alzheimer's disease mouse model.

Zelek WM(1), Bevan RJ(1), Nimmo J(1), Dewilde M(2)(3), De Strooper B(4)(5), 
Morgan BP(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, UK Dementia Research Institute Cardiff, Cardiff 
University, Cardiff CF14 4XN, UK.
(2)Therapeutic and Diagnostic Antibodies, Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological 
Sciences, KU Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium.
(3)PharmAbs, The KU Leuven Antibody Center, KU Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium.
(4)Centre for Brain and Disease Research, KU Leuven and VIB Leuven, Leuven 3000, 
Belgium.
(5)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, 
UK.

Complement activation is implicated in driving brain inflammation, self-cell 
damage and progression of injury in Alzheimer's disease and other 
neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we investigate the impact of brain delivery of 
a complement-blocking antibody on neurodegeneration in an Alzheimer's mouse 
model. We engineered a brain-penetrant recombinant antibody targeting the 
pro-inflammatory membrane attack complex. Systemic administration of this 
antibody in APPNL-G-F mice reduced brain levels of complement activation 
products, demonstrating successful brain entry and target engagement. Prolonged 
treatment decreased synapse loss, amyloid burden and brain inflammatory cytokine 
levels, concomitant with cognitive improvement compared to controls. These 
results underscore the potential of brain-penetrant complement-inhibiting drugs 
as promising therapeutics, targeting downstream of amyloid plaques in 
Alzheimer's disease.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awae278
PMCID: PMC11884734
PMID: 39215579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report competing interests.


14. J Bioinform Comput Biol. 2024 Aug;22(4):2450018. doi:
10.1142/S0219720024500185.  Epub 2024 Aug 31.

An ensemble approach for circular RNA-disease association prediction using 
variational autoencoder and genetic algorithm.

Salooja CM(1), Sanker A(1), Deepthi K(2), Jereesh AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Bioinformatics Lab, Department of Computer Science, Cochin University of 
Science and Technology, Kerala-682022, India.
(2)Department of Computer Science, Central University of Kerala (Central Govt. 
of India), Kerala-671316, India.

Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are endogenous non-coding RNAs with a covalently closed 
loop structure. They have many biological functions, mainly regulatory ones. 
They have been proven to modulate protein-coding genes in the human genome. 
CircRNAs are linked to various diseases like Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, 
atherosclerosis, Parkinson's disease and cancer. Identifying the associations 
between circular RNAs and diseases is essential for disease diagnosis, 
prevention, and treatment. The proposed model, based on the variational 
autoencoder and genetic algorithm circular RNA disease association (VAGA-CDA), 
predicts novel circRNA-disease associations. First, the experimentally verified 
circRNA-disease associations are augmented with the synthetic minority 
oversampling technique (SMOTE) and regenerated using a variational autoencoder, 
and feature selection is applied to these vectors by a genetic algorithm (GA). 
The variational autoencoder effectively extracts features from the augmented 
samples. The optimized feature selection of the genetic algorithm effectively 
carried out dimensionality reduction. The sophisticated feature vectors 
extracted are then given to a Random Forest classifier to predict new 
circRNA-disease associations. The proposed model yields an AUC value of 0.9644 
and 0.9628 under 5-fold and 10-fold cross-validations, respectively. The results 
of the case studies indicate the robustness of the proposed model.

DOI: 10.1142/S0219720024500185
PMID: 39215523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Nov;20(11):8192-8197. doi: 10.1002/alz.14223. Epub
2024  Aug 30.

Ischemic stroke associated with amyloid-related imaging abnormalities in a 
patient treated with lecanemab.

Gibson AW(1), Elser H(1), Rosso M(1), Cornblath EJ(1), Fonkeu Y(1), Prasad S(1), 
Rothstein A(1), Nasrallah IM(2), Wolk DA(1), Guo MH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Anti-amyloid antibody therapies such as lecanemab are increasingly 
being used to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD). These therapies are associated 
with a high rate of amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA).
METHODS: We review the case history of a patient who developed ARIA associated 
with lecanemab treatment.
RESULTS: In addition to microhemorrhages and cerebral edema that are recognized 
features of ARIA, the patient developed several ischemic strokes. The patient 
also experienced frequent electrographic seizures without overt clinical 
seizures. The patient demonstrated clinical and radiographic improvement after 
steroid treatment.
DISCUSSION: Our case suggests that ischemic strokes may be a feature of ARIA and 
highlights the importance of having a high clinical suspicion for seizures in 
ARIA. As anti-amyloid therapies are likely going to be increasingly used to 
treat AD, it is important to appreciate the spectrum of clinical and 
radiographic findings that can result as side effects from this class of 
therapies.
HIGHLIGHTS: We report a patient who developed severe amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities (ARIA) after treatment with lecanemab. Our report suggests that 
ischemic strokes may be a novel imaging feature of ARIA. Our report highlights 
the need for high clinical suspicion for seizures in ARIA.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14223
PMCID: PMC11567816
PMID: 39215494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: D.A.W serves as a paid consultant to Eli Lilly 
and has previously served as a paid consultant to GE Healthcare and Qynapse. He 
serves on a data safety monitoring board (DSMB) for Functional Neuromodulation 
and GSK. He receives research support paid to his institution from Biogen. I.N. 
has served as a paid consultant for Eisai and does educational speaking for 
PeerView. All other authors report no competing interests. Author disclosures 
are available in the supporting information.


16. J Neuroinflammation. 2024 Aug 30;21(1):212. doi: 10.1186/s12974-024-03203-7.

IRF3 regulates neuroinflammatory responses and the expression of genes 
associated with Alzheimer's disease.

Joshi R(1), Brezani V(1), Mey GM(2)(3), Guixé-Muntet S(4), Ortega-Ribera M(1), 
Zhuang Y(1), Zivny A(1), Werneburg S(2)(3), Gracia-Sancho J(4)(5), Szabo G(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, USA.
(2)Department of Opthalmology and Visual Sciences, Kellogg Eye Center Michigan 
Neuroscience Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA.
(3)Michigan Neuroscience Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(4)Liver Vascular Biology, IDIBAPS Biomedical Research Institute-CIBEREHD, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Department of Visceral Surgery and Medicine, Inselspital, Bern University 
Hospital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, USA. gszabo1@bidmc.harvard.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Mar 12:2024.03.08.582968. doi: 10.1101/2024.03.08.582968.

The pathological role of interferon signaling is emerging in neuroinflammatory 
disorders, yet, the specific role of Interferon Regulatory Factor 3 (IRF3) in 
neuroinflammation remains poorly understood. Here, we show that global IRF3 
deficiency delays TLR4-mediated signaling in microglia and attenuates the 
hallmark features of LPS-induced inflammation such as cytokine release, 
microglial reactivity, astrocyte activation, myeloid cell infiltration, and 
inflammasome activation. Moreover, expression of a constitutively active IRF3 
(S388D/S390D: IRF3-2D) in microglia induces a transcriptional program 
reminiscent of the Activated Response Microglia and the expression of genes 
associated with Alzheimer's disease, notably apolipoprotein-e. Using bulk-RNAseq 
of IRF3-2D brain myeloid cells, we identified Z-DNA binding protein-1 (ZBP1) as 
a target of IRF3 that is relevant across various neuroinflammatory disorders. 
Lastly, we show IRF3 phosphorylation and IRF3-dependent ZBP1 induction in 
response to Aβ in primary microglia cultures. Together, our results identify 
IRF3 as an important regulator of LPS and Aβ -mediated neuroinflammatory 
responses and highlight IRF3 as a central regulator of disease-specific gene 
activation in different neuroinflammatory diseases.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-024-03203-7
PMCID: PMC11363437
PMID: 39215356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: G.S. was the editor-in-Chief of Hepatology 
Communication., consults for Cyta Therapeutics, Durect, Evive, Merck, Novartis, 
Pandion Therapeutics, Pfizer, Surrozen and Terra Firma, received royalties from 
UptoDate and Springer and also holds equity in Glympse Bio, Zomagen and 
Satellite Bio.


17. BMC Complement Med Ther. 2024 Aug 30;24(1):321. doi:
10.1186/s12906-024-04589-w.

Network pharmacology-based mechanism analysis of dauricine on the alleviating 
Aβ-induced neurotoxicity in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Zhang R(1)(2), Huang X(2), Zhou C(2), Zhang Q(2), Jia D(1), Xie X(1), Zhang 
J(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cash Crops, Hebei Academy of Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, 
Shijiazhuang, China.
(2)College of Bioscience and Engineering, Hebei University of Economics and 
Business, Shijiazhuang, China.
(3)Institute of Cash Crops, Hebei Academy of Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, 
Shijiazhuang, China. juzi437163804@163.com.
(4)College of Bioscience and Engineering, Hebei University of Economics and 
Business, Shijiazhuang, China. juzi437163804@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Dauricine (DAU), a benzyl tetrahydroisoquinoline alkaloid isolated 
from the root of Menispermum dauricum DC, exhibits promising anti-Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) effects, but its underlying mechanisms remain inadequately 
investigated. This paper aims to identify potential targets and molecular 
mechanisms of DAU in AD treatment.
METHODS: Network pharmacology and molecular docking simulation method were used 
to screen and focus core targets. Various transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans 
models were chosen to validate the anti-AD efficacy and mechanism of DAU.
RESULTS: There are 66 potential DAU-AD target intersections identified from 100 
DAU and 3036 AD-related targets. Subsequent protein-protein interaction (PPI) 
network analysis identified 16 core targets of DAU for anti-AD. PIK3CA, AKT1 and 
mTOR were predicted to be the central targets with the best connectivity through 
the analysis of "compound-target-biological process-pathway network". Molecular 
docking revealed strong binding affinities between DAU and PIK3CA, AKT1, and 
mTOR. In vivo experiments demonstrated that DAU effectively reduced paralysis in 
AD nematodes caused by Aβ aggregation toxicity, downregulated expression of 
PIK3CA, AKT1, and mTOR homologues (age-1, akt-1, let-363), and upregulated 
expression of autophagy genes and the marker protein LGG-1. Simultaneously, DAU 
increased lysosomal content and enhanced degradation of the autophagy-related 
substrate protein P62. Thioflavin T（Th-T）staining experiment revealed that DAU 
decreased Aβ accumulation in AD nematodes. Further experiments also confirmed 
DAU's protein scavenging activity in polyglutamine (polyQ) aggregation 
nematodes.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, the mechanism of DAU against AD may be related to the 
activation of the autophagy-lysosomal protein clearance pathway, which 
contributes to the decrease of Aβ aggregation and the restoration of protein 
homeostasis.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-024-04589-w
PMCID: PMC11363685
PMID: 39215261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


18. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Mar;62(3):3040-3052. doi: 10.1007/s12035-024-04449-1.
Epub  2024 Aug 31.

Apolipoprotein E in Alzheimer's Disease: Focus on Synaptic Function and 
Therapeutic Strategy.

Qu L(1), Xu S(2), Lan Z(1), Fang S(1), Xu Y(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Zhu 
X(6)(7)(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Clinical College of 
Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 210008, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of 
Medical School, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210008, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology and Institute of 
Translational Medicine for Brain Critical Diseases, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 
210008, China.
(4)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Molecular Medicine, Medical School of Nanjing 
University, Nanjing, 210008, China.
(5)Nanjing Neurology Clinical Medical Center, Nanjing, 210008, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Clinical College of 
Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 210008, China. zhuquelee@126.com.
(7)Department of Neurology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of 
Medical School, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210008, China. zhuquelee@126.com.
(8)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology and Institute of 
Translational Medicine for Brain Critical Diseases, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 
210008, China. zhuquelee@126.com.
(9)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Molecular Medicine, Medical School of Nanjing 
University, Nanjing, 210008, China. zhuquelee@126.com.
(10)Nanjing Neurology Clinical Medical Center, Nanjing, 210008, China. 
zhuquelee@126.com.

Synaptic dysfunction is a critical pathological feature in the early phase of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) that precedes typical hallmarks of AD, including 
beta-amyloid (Aβ) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. However, the underlying 
mechanism of synaptic dysfunction remains incompletely defined. Apolipoprotein E 
(APOE) has been shown to play a key role in the pathogenesis of AD, and the ε4 
allele of APOE remains the strongest genetic risk factor for sporadic AD. 
It is widely recognized that APOE4 accelerates the development of Aβ and tau 
pathology in AD. Recent studies have indicated that APOE affects synaptic 
function through a variety of pathways. Here, we summarize the mechanism of 
modulating synapses by various APOE isoforms and demonstrate the therapeutic 
potential by targeting APOE4 for AD treatment.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-024-04449-1
PMID: 39214953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: Not applicable. 
Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: All authors 
have given final approval of the version and agreed with the publication of this 
study here. Competing Interests: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest. Figures were created by Figdraw ( www.figdraw.com ).


19. J Neurochem. 2025 Jan;169(1):e16215. doi: 10.1111/jnc.16215. Epub 2024 Aug
30.

Troriluzole rescues glutamatergic deficits, amyloid and tau pathology, and 
synaptic and memory impairments in 3xTg-AD mice.

Pfitzer J(1), Pinky PD(1), Perman S(1), Redmon E(1), Cmelak L(2), Suppiramaniam 
V(1)(3)(4), Coric V(5), Qureshi IA(5), Gramlich MW(3)(6), Reed MN(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Drug Discovery and Development, Auburn University, Auburn, 
Alabama, USA.
(2)Department of Psychological Sciences, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama, 
USA.
(3)Center for Neuroscience Initiative, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, College of Science and 
Mathematics, Kennesaw State University, Kennesaw, Georgia, USA.
(5)Biohaven Pharmaceuticals Inc., New Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(6)Department of Physics, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition in which clinical 
symptoms are highly correlated with the loss of glutamatergic synapses. While 
later stages of AD are associated with markedly decreased glutamate levels due 
to neuronal loss, in the early stages, pathological accumulation of glutamate 
and hyperactivity contribute to AD pathology and cognitive dysfunction. There is 
increasing awareness that presynaptic dysfunction, particularly synaptic vesicle 
(SV) alterations, play a key role in mediating this early-stage hyperactivity. 
In the current study, we sought to determine whether the 3xTg mouse model of AD 
that exhibits both beta-amyloid (Aβ) and tau-related pathology would exhibit 
similar presynaptic changes as previously observed in amyloid or tau models 
separately. Hippocampal cultures from 3xTg mice were used to determine whether 
presynaptic vesicular glutamate transporters (VGlut) and glutamate are increased 
at the synaptic level while controlling for postsynaptic activity. We observed 
that 3xTg hippocampal cultures exhibited increased VGlut1 associated with an 
increase in glutamate release, similar to prior observations in cultures from 
tau mouse models. However, the SV pool size was also increased in 3xTg cultures, 
an effect not previously observed in tau mouse models but observed in Aβ models, 
suggesting the changes in pool size may be due to Aβ and not tau. Second, we 
sought to determine whether treatment with troriluzole, a novel 3rd generation 
tripeptide prodrug of the glutamate modulator riluzole, could reduce VGlut1 and 
glutamate release to restore cognitive deficits in 8-month-old 3xTg mice. 
Treatment with troriluzole reduced VGlut1 expression, decreased basal and evoked 
glutamate release, and restored cognitive deficits in 3xTg mice. Together, these 
findings suggest presynaptic alterations are early events in AD that represent 
potential targets for therapeutic intervention, and these results support the 
promise of glutamate-modulating drugs such as troriluzole in Alzheimer's 
disease.

© 2024 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.16215
PMID: 39214859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Neurotherapeutics. 2024 Sep;21(5):100438. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.100438. 
Epub 2024 Aug 30.

Corrigendum to "Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation as a treatment for 
Alzheimer's disease: A randomized placebo-controlled double-blind clinical 
trial" [Neurotherapeutics 21 (3) (2024) e00331].

Moussavi Z(1), Uehara M(2), Rutherford G(2), Lithgow B(3), Millikin C(4), Wang 
X(5), Saha C(2), Mansouri B(6), Omelan C(7), Fellows L(8), Fitzgerald PB(9), 
Koski L(10).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB Canada; 
Riverview Health Center, Winnipeg, MB Canada. Electronic address: 
Zahra.Moussavi@umanitoba.ca.
(2)Biomedical Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB Canada.
(3)Biomedical Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB Canada; 
Riverview Health Center, Winnipeg, MB Canada; Monash Alfred Psychiatry Research 
Center, Prahran, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Clinical Health Psychology, Max Rady College of Medicine, Rady Faculty of 
Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB Canada.
(5)Warren Centre for Actuarial Studies and Research, University of Manitoba, 
Winnipeg, MB Canada.
(6)Brain Vision and Concussion Clinic, Winnipeg, MB Canada.
(7)Psychiatry, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB Canada.
(8)Neurology & Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC Canada.
(9)School of Medicine and Psychology, ANU College of Health and Medicine, 
Canberra, NSW Australia.
(10)Clinical Psychology, McGill University, Montreal, QC Canada.

Erratum for
    Neurotherapeutics. 2024 Apr;21(3):e00331. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00331.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.100438
PMCID: PMC11579860
PMID: 39214819


21. Dementia (London). 2025 Feb;24(2):235-248. doi: 10.1177/14713012241279683.
Epub  2024 Aug 30.

The impact of social isolation and loneliness on the well-being of carers of a 
person with dementia in aotearoa New Zealand.

Robertson K(1), Thyne M(2), Thomson R(1), Watkins L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Marketing, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(2)Department of Marketing, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.

Dementia is a leading cause of disability, and as the population ages, there 
will be a greater need for friends and family to care for people with Dementia. 
Unfortunately, informal care for a person with dementia is associated with poor 
psychological and physical health and lower quality of life of the caregiver. 
The aim of the present study was to understand how to best support caregivers 
within their communities by examining their experience of loneliness, isolation, 
and their relationship with well-being. The study used a representative sample 
of the New Zealand population in terms of ethnicity, age, gender, education, and 
income and asked people if they were a primary caregiver of a person with 
Alzheimer's Disease or related disorder. Both loneliness and isolation were 
linked to overall well-being; however, loneliness was a stronger predictor of 
satisfaction with relationships and feeling part of one's community. The 
findings highlight the importance of examining the multi-factorial constructs of 
social connectedness and question research attributing loneliness solely to 
reduced social involvement. As such, interventions for caregivers of a person 
with dementia need to target feelings of loneliness as well as their social 
isolation.

DOI: 10.1177/14713012241279683
PMCID: PMC11780974
PMID: 39214523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


22. Neurosci Lett. 2024 Nov 1;842:137954. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2024.137954. Epub
 2024 Aug 28.

Diosgenin upregulates axonal guidance partner molecules, Galectin-1 and 
Secernin-1.

Yang X(1), Tohda C(2).

Author information:
(1)Section of Neuromedical Science, Institute of Natural Medicine, University of 
Toyama, 2630 Sugitani, Toyama 930-0194, Japan.
(2)Section of Neuromedical Science, Institute of Natural Medicine, University of 
Toyama, 2630 Sugitani, Toyama 930-0194, Japan. Electronic address: 
chihiro@inm.u-toyama.ac.jp.

Galectin-1, a β-galactosides-binding protein, is widely expressed in various 
tissues and exhibits diverse biological activities. We previously obtained 
following findings; 1) Diosgenin, a steroid sapogenin, promoted axonal 
regeneration in the brain and recovered memory deficits in a model of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), 5XFAD mouse; 2) Neuron-specific overexpression of 
Galectin-1 protein in the hippocampus recovered memory impairment and promoted 
axonal regeneration in the brain in 5XFAD mice; 3) Secernin-1, a counterpart and 
axonal guidance molecule for Galectin-1-expressing axons, was secreted from the 
prefrontal cortical neurons to promote axonal guidance from the hippocampus to 
the prefrontal cortex. However, it has never been elucidated that diosgenin 
signaling increase Galectin-1 and Secernin-1 or not. Here, we found that 
diosgenin treatment upregulated the protein level of Galectin-1 in the 
hippocampus both in primary cultured neurons and in 5XFAD mouse brains. In 
addition, diosgenin-induced upregulation of Galectin-1 was diminished by 
treatment of a neutralizing antibody of 1,25D3-membrane-associated rapid 
response steroid-binding receptor (1,25D3-MARRS), a direct binding receptor for 
diosgenin. Importantly, knockdown of Galectin-1 in hippocampal neurons inhibited 
axonal growth activity of diosgenin. Furthermore, the expression level of 
Secernin-1 was also increased in prefrontal cortical neurons by administration 
of diosgenin to 5XFAD mice. These findings suggest that diosgenin is a suitable 
compound to facilitate Galectin-1-Secernin-1-mediated axonal growth in AD 
brains.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2024.137954
PMID: 39214332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


23. Brain Res. 2024 Dec 15;1845:149207. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149207. Epub
 2024 Aug 28.

Low-dose diazepam improves cognitive function in APP/PS1 mouse models: 
Involvement of AMPA receptors.

Chen J(1), Zhang M(1), Shen Z(1), Tang M(1), Zeng Y(1), Bai D(1), Zhao P(1), 
Jiang G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of North Sichuan Medical 
College, Institute of Neurological Diseases, North Sichuan Medical College, 
Nanchong, Sichuan, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of North Sichuan Medical 
College, Institute of Neurological Diseases, North Sichuan Medical College, 
Nanchong, Sichuan, China. Electronic address: neurodoctor@163.com.

Previous studies have indicated a close association between cognitive impairment 
in patients with neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
and synaptic damage. Diazepam (DZP), a benzodiazepine class drug, is used to 
control symptoms such as seizures, anxiety, and sleep disorders. These symptoms 
can potentially manifest throughout the entire course of AD. Therefore, DZP may 
be utilized in the treatment of AD to manage these symptoms. However, the 
specific role and mechanisms of DZP in AD remain unclear. In this study, we 
discovered that long-term administration of a low dose of DZP (0.5  mg/kg) 
improved cognitive function and protected neurons from damage in APP/PS1 mice. 
Mechanistic investigations revealed that DZP exerted its neuroprotective effects 
and reduced Aβ deposition by modulating GluA1 (glutamate AMPA receptor subunit) 
to influence synaptic function. In conclusion, these findings highlight the 
potential benefits of DZP as a novel therapeutic approach, suggesting that 
long-term use of low-dose DZP in early-stage AD patients may be advantageous in 
slowing disease progression.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149207
PMID: 39214326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


24. Eur J Pharmacol. 2024 Nov 15;983:176962. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.176962.
Epub  2024 Aug 28.

Astaxanthin inhibits apoptosis in a cell model of tauopathy by attenuating 
endoplasmic reticulum stress and unfolded protein response.

Shi H(1), Zhao Y(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology, 
Harbin, 150001, China; Department of Bioengineering, Harbin Institute of 
Technology, Weihai, 264209, China.
(2)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology, 
Harbin, 150001, China; Department of Bioengineering, Harbin Institute of 
Technology, Weihai, 264209, China. Electronic address: zhaoyan@hitwh.edu.cn.

The accumulation of misfolded proteins is a common pathological characteristic 
shared by many neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease and 
Parkinson's disease. The disruption of proteostasis triggers endoplasmic 
reticulum (ER) stress, during which the unfolded protein response (UPR) is 
initiated by the activation of protein kinase R-like ER kinase (PERK), 
inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1) and activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6). 
These three branches of UPR signals act in concert to reduce the levels of 
abnormal proteins and restore ER homeostasis. However, the overactivation of UPR 
impairs cell function and induces apoptosis, which has been implicated in 
neurodegeneration. Astaxanthin is a xanthophyll carotenoid which has been shown 
to have neuroprotective effects in both cell and animal models; however, its 
effects on ER stress and UPR induced by disrupted proteostasis remain unclear. 
In this study, the effects of astaxanthin on ER stress and cytotoxicity were 
investigated in N2a cells stably expressing the pro-aggregant tau repeat domain 
carrying FTDP-17 mutation ΔK280 (Tau4RDΔK280). The results demonstrated that 
astaxanthin significantly inhibited Tau4RDΔK280-induced loss of cell viability 
and apoptosis, attenuating Tau4RDΔK280-induced caspase-3 activation and decrease 
of Bcl-2. Further studies revealed that astaxanthin treatment alleviated 
Tau4RDΔK280-induced ER stress and suppressed the activation of PERK, IRE1 and 
ATF6 signaling pathways. These findings suggested that astaxanthin might inhibit 
Tau4RDΔK280-induced cytotoxicity by attenuating UPR and ER stress. In addition, 
astaxanthin treatment resulted in a great reduction in the production of 
intracellular reactive oxygen species and a significant decrease in calcium 
influx induced by Tau4RDΔK280, which also contributed to the protective effects 
of astaxanthin against Tau4RDΔK280-induced cytotoxicity.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.176962
PMID: 39214273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


25. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2024 Sep 18;15(18):3298-3310. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00205. Epub 2024 Aug 30.

Repurposing Anakinra for Alzheimer's Disease: The In Vitro and In Vivo Effects 
of Anakinra on LPS- and AC-Induced Neuroinflammation.

Retinasamy T(1), Lee ALY(2), Lee HS(1), Lee VLL(1), Shaikh MF(1)(3), Yeong 
KY(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Research Laboratory, Jeffrey Cheah School of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Monash University Malaysia, Bandar Sunway 47500, Selangor, 
Malaysia.
(2)School of Science, Monash University Malaysia Campus, Jalan Lagoon Selatan, 
Bandar Sunway 47500, Selangor, Malaysia.
(3)School of Dentistry and Medical Sciences, Charles Sturt University, Orange 
2795, NSW, Australia.

Alzheimer's disease is a significant global health issue, and studies suggest 
that neuroinflammation plays a vital role in the advancement of this disease. In 
this study, anakinra has been shown to display a time- and 
concentration-dependent antineuroinflammatory effect. In the in vitro studies, 
it diminished the gene expressions of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and 
nitric oxide (NO) synthase 2 stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Anakinra 
also reduced the LPS-induced production of NO and reactive oxygen species. Thus, 
the hypertrophic state of LPS-activated BV2 microglial cells was reversed by 
anakinra. Furthermore, acrylamide (ACR)-induced activation of nuclear 
transcription factor-κB, TNF-α, and interleukin-1β was downregulated, while cAMP 
response element binding protein and brain-derived neurotrophic factor 
expression levels were markedly enhanced in ACR-treated zebrafish larvae. It was 
also observed that anakinra improved the uncoordinated swimming behaviors in 
ACR-exposed zebrafish larvae. Overall, anakinra demonstrated potential 
antineuroinflammatory and antioxidative effects.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00205
PMID: 39213521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. PLoS One. 2024 Aug 30;19(8):e0309287. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0309287. 
eCollection 2024.

Effect of matcha green tea on cognitive functions and sleep quality in older 
adults with cognitive decline: A randomized controlled study over 12 months.

Uchida K(1)(2), Meno K(2), Korenaga T(2), Liu S(2), Suzuki H(2), Baba Y(3), 
Tagata C(3), Araki Y(3), Tsunemi S(3), Aso K(3), Inagaki S(3), Nakagawa S(3), 
Kobayashi M(3), Kakuma T(4), Asada T(5)(6), Ota M(7), Takihara T(3), Arai T(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Research, MCBI Inc., Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(2)Research Division, MCBI Inc., Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(3)Central Research Institute, ITO EN, LTD., Makinohara, Shizuoka, Japan.
(4)Biostatistics Center, Kurume University Graduate School of Medicine, Kurume, 
Japan.
(5)Memory Clinic Toride, Toride, Ibaraki, Japan.
(6)Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Institute of Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Lifestyle habits after middle age significantly impact the 
maintenance of cognitive function in older adults. Nutritional intake is closely 
related to lifestyle habits; therefore, nutrition is a pivotal factor in the 
prevention of dementia in the preclinical stages. Matcha green tea powder 
(matcha), which contains epigallocatechin gallate, theanine, and caffeine, has 
beneficial effects on cognitive function and mood. We conducted a randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study over 12 months to examine the 
effect of matcha on cognitive function and sleep quality.
METHODS: Ninety-nine participants, including 64 with subjective cognitive 
decline and 35 with mild cognitive impairment were randomized, with 49 receiving 
2 g of matcha and 50 receiving a placebo daily. Participants were stratified 
based on two factors: age at baseline and APOE genotype. Changes in cognitive 
function and sleep quality were analyzed using a mixed-effects model.
RESULTS: Matcha consumption led to significant improvements in social acuity 
score (difference; -1.39, 95% confidence interval; -2.78, 0.002) (P = 0.028) as 
evaluated by the perception of facial emotions in cognitive function. The 
primary outcomes, that is, Montreal Cognitive Assessment and Alzheimer's Disease 
Cooperative Study Activity of Daily Living scores, showed no significant changes 
with matcha intervention. Meanwhile, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index scores 
indicated a trend toward improvement with a difference of 0.86 (95% confidence 
interval; -0.002, 1.71) (P = 0.088) between the groups in changes from baseline 
to 12 months.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study suggests regular consumption of matcha could 
improve emotional perception and sleep quality in older adults with mild 
cognitive decline. Given the widespread availability and cultural acceptance of 
matcha green tea, incorporating it into the daily routine may offer a simple yet 
effective strategy for cognitive enhancement and dementia prevention.

Copyright: © 2024 Uchida et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0309287
PMCID: PMC11364242
PMID: 39213264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors with competing interests Enter competing 
interest details beginning with this statement: I have read the journal’s policy 
and the authors of this manuscript have the following competing interests: 
[Kazuhiko Uchida serves as a board member of MCBI Inc. Kohji Meno, Tatsumi 
Korenaga, Liu Shan, and Hideaki Suzuki are employees of MCBI Inc. Yoshitake 
Baba, Chika Tagata, Yoshiharu Araki, Shuto Tsunemi, Kenta Aso, Shun Inagaki, Sae 
Nakagawa, Makoto Kobayashi, and Takanobu Takihara are employees of ITO EN, LTD. 
This research received no external funding.] This does not alter our adherence 
to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


27. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(1):309-320. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240484.

First Biodistribution Study of [68Ga]Ga-NOTA-Insulin Following Intranasal 
Administration in Adult Vervet Monkeys.

Solingapuram Sai KK(1), Erichsen JM(2), Gollapelli KK(1), Krizan I(1), Miller 
M(1), Bansode A(1), Jorgensen MJ(3), Register T(3), Cazzola C(4), Gandhi R(5), 
Suman J(5), Craft S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, 
USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Gerontology and Geriatric 
Medicine, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Division of Comparative Medicine, Wake Forest School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(4)Aptar Pharma, Le Vaudreuil, France.
(5)Aptar Pharmaceuticals, Congers, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Intranasal insulin (INI) is being explored as a treatment for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Improved memory, functional ability, and cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) AD biomarker profiles have been observed following INI 
administration. However, the method of intranasal delivery may significantly 
affect outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: To show reliable delivery of insulin to the brain using the Aptar 
Cartridge Pump System (CPS) intranasal delivery system.
METHODS: To visualize INI biodistribution, we developed a novel PET radiotracer, 
Gallium 68-radiolabeled (NOTA-conjugated) insulin, [68Ga]Ga-NOTA-insulin. We 
used the Aptar CPS to administer [68Ga]Ga-NOTA-insulin to anesthetized healthy 
adult vervet monkeys and measured brain regional activity and whole-body 
dosimetry following PET/CT scans.
RESULTS: We observed brain penetration of [68Ga]Ga-NOTA-insulin following 
intranasal administration with the Aptar CPS. Radioactive uptake was seen in 
multiple regions, including the amygdala, putamen, hypothalamus, hippocampus, 
and choroid plexus. A safety profile and whole-body dosimetry were also 
established in a second cohort of vervets. Safety was confirmed: vitals remained 
stable, blood glucose levels were unchanged, and no organ was exposed to more 
than 2.5 mSv of radioactivity. Extrapolations from vervet organ distribution 
allowed for estimation of the [68Ga]Ga-NOTA-insulin absorbed dose in humans, and 
the maximum dose of [68Ga]Ga-NOTA-insulin that can be safely administered to 
humans was determined to be 185 MBq.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of [68Ga]Ga-NOTA-insulin as a PET radiotracer is safe and 
effective for observing brain uptake in vervet monkeys. Further, the Aptar CPS 
successfully targets [68Ga]Ga-NOTA-insulin to the brain. The data will be 
essential in guiding future studies of intranasal [68Ga]Ga-NOTA-insulin 
administration in humans.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240484
PMID: 39213084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(2):661-670. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240702.

The Association Between Distinct Delusional Ideations and Depressive Symptoms in 
Alzheimer's Disease: A Re-Analysis of CATIE-AD.

Nagata T(1)(2), Nakajima S(3), Kito S(1), Shinagawa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(2)Center for Dementia-Related Diseases, Airanomori Hospital, Kagoshima, Japan.
(3)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Delusional ideations, one of neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPSs), are 
frequently shown in the long-term progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 
comorbid with other NPSs including depression or agitation. Despite various 
types of delusional ideations, the comorbidity between each delusional ideation 
and depressive symptoms has not been discussed.
OBJECTIVE: The present cross-sectional study is aimed at testing the 
hypothetical mechanism of comorbid pattern in AD.
METHODS: Among 421 patients with AD, we analyzed the dataset of the Clinical 
Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness-Alzheimer's Disease to 
compare age, sex, racial type, Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores, and 
Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) depression score of between the presence and 
absence of each delusional ideation (delusion of persecution, theft, jealousy, 
abandonment, phantom boarder, Capgras syndrome, misidentification of place, or 
television sign). Next, with the stratification based on MMSE score of 
< or > = 15 points, we further explored association between delusional ideation 
and depressive symptom that was found significances in the primary analysis.
RESULTS: Among eight subtypes of delusional ideations, depression score was 
higher in those with persecution delusion or Capgras syndrome. Moreover, the 
Capgras syndrome was associated with presence of depression in severer global 
cognitive impairment status.
CONCLUSIONS: As comorbid NPSs of delusional ideation in AD, depressive severity 
is associated with specific delusional subtype: persecution delusion and Capgras 
syndrome. Capgras syndrome may be attributable to severe cognitive impairment in 
addition to depressive symptom. The consideration of pathogenetic differences in 
the distinct delusional ideations may be helpful for clinicians to select the 
treatment strategy.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240702
PMCID: PMC11492010
PMID: 39213078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Nagata has not received either grants or 
pharmaceutical company including speaker’s honoraria. Dr. Nakajima has received 
fellowship grants from Canadian Institute of Health Research (CIHR), research 
support from Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Japan Research 
Foundation for Clinical Pharmacology, Naito Foundation, Takeda Science 
Foundation, Daiichi Sankyo, and manuscript fees or speaker’s honoraria from 
Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma and Yoshitomi Yakuhin within the past three years. Dr. 
Kito received speaker honoraria from Inter Reha Co., Ltd., Lundbeck Japan K.K., 
Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Takeda 
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Teijin Pharma Ltd., and Viatris Inc.; consultant fees 
from Kyowa Pharmaceutical Industry Co., Ltd., Teijin Pharma Ltd., and Inter Reha 
Co., Ltd.; and research grants from Teijin Pharma Ltd., Dr. Igarashi, Dr. Okita 
and Dr. Hayashi have no COI to disclose. Dr. Shinagawa has received a 
Grant-in-Aid for Young Scientists (KAKENHI), a research grant from Japan Agency 
for Medical Research and Development (AMED). The author also receives research 
grants from Mitsui Life Social Welfare Foundation, Eisai, and Pfizer.


29. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(2):525-539. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240625.

Degradation of Amyloid-β Species by Multi-Copper Oxidases.

Yang J(1)(2), Ran K(1), Ma W(3), Chen Y(1), Chen Y(1), Zhang C(4), Ye H(5), Lu 
Y(3), Ran C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, 
Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(2)School of Engineering, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, China.
(3)Department of System Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Genetics and Aging Research Unit, McCance Center for 
Brain Health, MassGeneral Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease, Massachusetts 
General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Loyola University Chicago, IL, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2023 Jul 03:2023.07.02.547398. doi: 10.1101/2023.07.02.547398.

BACKGROUND: Reduction of the production of amyloid-β (Aβ) species has been 
intensively investigated as potential therapeutic approaches for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). However, the degradation of Aβ species, another potential 
beneficial approach, has been far less explored.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the potential of multi-copper oxidases (MCOs) in 
degrading Aβ peptides and their potential benefits for AD treatment.
METHODS: We investigated the degradation efficiency of MCOs by using 
electrophoresis and validated the ceruloplasmin (CP)-Aβ interaction using total 
internal reflection fluorescence microscopy, fluorescence photometer, and 
fluorescence polarization measurement. We also investigated the therapeutic 
effect of ascorbate oxidase (AO) by using induced pluripotent stem (iPS) neuron 
cells and electrophysiological analysis with brain slices.
RESULTS: We discovered that CP, an important MCO in human blood, could degrade 
Aβ peptides. We also found that other MCOs could induce Aβ degradation as well. 
Remarkably, we revealed that AO had the strongest degrading effect among the 
tested MCOs. Using iPS neuron cells, we observed that AO could rescue neuron 
toxicity which induced by Aβ oligomers. In addition, our electrophysiological 
analysis with brain slices suggested that AO could prevent an Aβ-induced deficit 
in synaptic transmission in the hippocampus.
CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, our report is the first to 
demonstrate that MCOs have a degrading function for peptides/proteins. Further 
investigations are warranted to explore the possible benefits of MCOs for future 
AD treatment.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240625
PMID: 39213075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(2):509-524. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240594.

The Profile of the Italian Centers for Cognitive Disorders and Dementia in the 
Context of New Drugs in Alzheimer's Disease.

Giaquinto F(1), Lorenzini P(2), Salvi E(3), Carnevale G(4), Vaccaro R(4)(5), 
Matascioli F(4)(6), Corbo M(7), Locuratolo N(2), Vanacore N(2), Bacigalupo I(2); 
National Dementia Plan Study Group; CCDDs Study Group.

Collaborators: Arabia G, Amorosi A, Bacigalupo I, Bargagli AM, Bartorelli L, 
Basso C, Berardinelli M, Bernardi MP, Bianchi CBNA, Blandi L, Boschi F, Bruni 
AC, Caci A, Caffarra P, Canevelli M, Capasso A, Cipollari S, Cozzari M, Di 
Costanzo A, Di Fiandra T, Di Palma A, Fabbo A, Francescone F, Gabelli C, 
Gainotti S, Galeotti F, Gambina G, Gasparini M, Giannini MA, Gilli M, Giordano 
M, Greco A, Guaita A, Izzicupo F, Landoni F, Lidonnici E, Locuratolo N, 
Logroscino G, Lombardi A, Losito G, Lubian F, Lupinetti MC, Madrigali S, Marra 
C, Masera F, Massaia M, Mastromattei A, Matera A, Matera M, Mazzoleni F, Melani 
C, Meloni S, Memeo E, Musso M, Notarelli A, Onofrj M, Palummeri E, Panetta V, 
Petrini C, Piccoli T, Pirani A, Piras S, Porro G, Possenti M, Rendina E, Riolo 
A, Riva L, Salvi E, Santini S, Scalmana S, Scarpelli N, Secreto P, Seganfreddo 
M, Sensi S, Severino C, Spadin P, Spallino P, Spinelli AL, Stracciari A, 
Trabucchi M, Vanacore N, Zaccardi A, Accardo E, Ahmad O, Ajena D, Alba G, 
Albanese A, Albergati A, Alessandria M, Alfieri P, Alimenti M, Aliprandi A, 
Altavilla R, Amarù S, Ambrosino I, Amideo F, Ammendola S, Amoruso F, Andreati C, 
Andreone V, Angeloni R, Annunziata F, Antenucci S, Appollonio I, Arabia G, 
Arcudi L, Ardillo M, Arena MCG, Arighi A, Arpino G, Bagalà A, Baiano A, 
Balestrino A, Barbagallo M, Barbuto M, Bargnani C, Barone P, Bartoli A, Bauco C, 
Bellelli G, Bellini MA, Bellora A, Benati G, Beretta S, Bergamini L, Bergonzini 
E, Bessi V, Bianchetti A, Bisio E, Boiardi R, Bollani E, Bologna L, Bolzetta F, 
Boni S, Borgogni T, Bottini G, Bottone I, Bove A, Bruno Bossio R, Bruno G, Bruno 
P, Bucca C, Buganza M, Buzzi G, Buzzi P, Cacchio' G, Cafarelli A, Cafazzo V, 
Caggiula M, Cagnin A, Calabrese G, Calabrese GA, Calandra M, Caleri V, Calvani 
D, Camerlingo M, Cantello R, Capasso A, Capellari S, Capobianco G, Capoluongo 
MC, Cappelletti R, Capra C, Caravona N, Stucchi CM, Carluccio MA, Carteri S, 
Casanova A, Caserta F, Caso P, Cassaniti G, Cassetta E, Casson S, Castiello V, 
Cattaruzza T, Ceccon A, Ceci M, Cella S, Cenciarelli S, Censori B, Cerqua G, 
Cerrone P, Cervera P, Chemotti S, Chiari A, Chiloiro R, Cirilli L, Clerici R, 
Coin A, Colacino G, Colacioppo FP, Colao R, Colin A, Coluccia B, Conti GM, 
Coppola F, Coppola F, Corbo M, Cossu A, Costa A, Costa G, Costa M, Cotelli MS, 
Cottone S, Cozzolino MI, Crucitti A, Cumbo E, Currà A, Dallocchio C, D'amico F, 
D'Amore A, De Carolis S, De Donato M, De Feo P, De La Pierre F, De Laurentiis M, 
De Lauretis I, De Luca Gian P, De Palma A, De Togni L, Demontis A, D'Epiro D, 
Desideri G, Desiderio M, Di Donato M, Di Emidio G, Di Giacopo R, Di Lazzaro V, 
Di Leo R, Di Marco S, Di Quarto G, Dijk B, Dikova N, Dioguardi MS, Dominici F, 
Dotta M, Dotti C, Esposito D, Esposito S, Esposito Z, Ettorre E, Fabbo A, 
Faccenda G, Falanga A, Falorni M, Falvo F, Fappani A, Farina EIM, Fascendini S, 
Fattapposta F, Favatella I, Femminella GD, Ferrara S, Ferrari P, Ferraris A, 
Ferraro F, Ferri R, Ferrigno S, Filastro F, Filippi M, Finelli A, Finelli C, 
Fiori MR, Fiorillo F, Floris G, Fontanella A, Forgione L, Foti A, Foti FF, 
Frediani F, Frontera G, Fulgido ML, Fundarò C, Fuschillo C, Gabbani L, Gabelli 
C, Galati F, Galli R, Gallo A, Gallo L, Gallucci M, Galluccio G, Gareri P, 
Gasperi L, Gelmini G, Gennuso M, Gerace C, Ghersetti D, Giambattistelli F, 
Giantin V, Giordano B, Giorelli M, Giorgianni A, Giubilei F, Godi L, Gorelli L, 
Gragnaniello D, Granziera S, Greco G, Grella R, Grieco M, Grimaldi L, Guarino M, 
Guarnerio C, Guidi G, Guidi L, Iallonardo L, Iavarone A, Ingegni T, Insardà P, 
Ivaldi C, Izzicupo F, Labate CR, Lacava R, Lalli F, Lammardo AM, Laurienzo PM, 
Leonardi A, Leotta MR, Leuzzi R, Linarello S, Litterio P, Lo Coco D, Lo Storto 
MR, Logi C, Logullo FO, Lombardi A, Lombardi F, Lorido A, Losavio FA, Lubian F, 
Luca A, Ludovico L, Lunardelli M, Lupo M, Luzzi S, Maddestra M, Maio G, Maiotti 
M, Malagnino AM, Mancini G, Manica A, Maniscalco M, Manni B, Manucra A, Manzoni 
L, Marabotto M, Marchesiello G, Marcon M, Marcone A, Marconi R, Margiotta A, 
Marianantoni A, Mariani D, Marino G, Marino S, Marinoni V, Marra A, Marra C, 
Marrari M, Martelli M, Marti A, Martorana A, Marvardi M, Mascolo S, Massimiliano 
MMB, Massimo LL, Mastronuzzi VMA, Mazzi ML, Mazzone A, Mecacci R, Mecocci P, 
Medici D, Mei D, Melandri GG, Melis M, Meneghello F, Menon V, Menza C, Merlo P, 
Milan G, Milia A, Millia CC, Minervini S, Mobilia CA, Moleri M, Molteni E, 
Moniello G, Montanari S, Mormile MT, Moro G, Moscato G, Mossello E, Mundo AD, 
Mura G, Musca F, Musso AM, Nardelli A, Neviani F, Nicosia V, Nociti V, Novelli 
A, Nuccetelli F, Onofrj M, Orefice L, Orsucci D, Pace A, Paci C, Padoan R, 
Padovani A, Palleschi L, Palmisani MT, Palmucci M, Palumbo P, Panico NR, Pansini 
A, Pantieri R, Paolello P, Pardini M, Parnetti L, Parrotta E, Passamonte M, 
Pastore A, Pastorello E, Pelini L, Pellati M, Pellegrino M, Pellicano C, 
Pelliccioni G, Pennisi MG, Perini M, Perotta D, Persico D, Petrella V, Petri F, 
Piccininni M, Pierguidi L, Pietrella A, Pilotto A, Pinto P, Pirani A, Pizza V, 
Plantone D, Plastino M, Poddighe P, Pomati S, Pompilio A, Pontecorvo M, Prelle 
A, Previderè G, Pucci E, Puoti G, Putzu V, Rabasca A, Raffaele M, Rainero I, 
Rais C, Rana M, Ranzenigo A, Rea G, Righetti E, Rinaldi G, Rini A, Rizzo MR, 
Rizzo M, Rocca P, Roffredo L, Roglia D, Romagnoni F, Romano C, Romasco A, Romeo 
L, Ronzoni S, Rosci CE, Rosso M, Rozzini R, Ruberto E, Ruberto S, Rungger G, 
Ruotolo G, Russo F, Russo G, Sabina R, Sacco S, Sacilotto G, Salemi G, Salotti 
P, Salvatore E, Sambati L, Sanges G, Santamaria F, Santilli IM, Santoro M, 
Saponara R, Scarmagnan M, Scataglini F, Seccia L, Selmo V, Sensi S, Sicurella L, 
Silvestri A, Simone M, Sirca A, Sleiman I, Solla P, Sperber SA, Spinelli L, 
Spoegler F, Sucapane P, Suraci D, Tagliabue B, Tagliente S, Tamietti E, Tedeschi 
G, Tetto A, Tiezzi A, Tiraboschi P, Tognoni G, Tomasetti C, Torchia F, Toriello 
G, Trevisi G, Tripi G, Trombetta G, Tulliani A, Vaccina AR, Valentinis L, 
Varricchio G, Vasquez GA, Vella F, Verde F, Verlato C, Vezzadini G, Vidale S, 
Vignoli A, Villani D, Vitelli A, Volpentesta L, Volpi G, Vozza D, Wanderlingh P, 
Wenter C, Zaccherini D, Zanardo M, Zanette G, Zanetti M, Zanetti O, Zanferrari 
C, Zuffi M, Zupo V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human and Social Sciences, University of Salento, Lecce, Italy.
(2)National Centre for Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Italian National 
Institute of Health, Rome, Italy.
(3)National Center for Drug Research and Evaluation, Italian National Institute 
of Health, Rome, Italy.
(4)Italian National Institute of Health FONDEM Study Group, Rome, Italy.
(5)Scientific cultural workshops, Cognitive Therapy Centre (CTC), Como, Italy.
(6)TAM Onlus, Social Cooperative, Naples, Italy.
(7)Department of Neurorehabilitation Sciences, Casa Cura Igea, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The wait for the upcoming disease-modifying therapies (DMT) for 
Alzheimer's disease in Europe is raising questions about the preparedness of 
national healthcare systems to conduct accurate diagnoses and effective 
prescriptions. In this article, we focus on the current situation in Italy.
OBJECTIVE: The primary goal is to propose a profile of the Italian Centers for 
Cognitive Disorders and Dementias (CCDDs) that could be taken into consideration 
by regional and autonomous provincial authorities when deciding on the 
prescribing centers for DMT.
METHODS: Based on responses to a national survey on CCDDs in Italy, we 
identified the CCDDs that meet the requirements for effective prescription: 1) 
Multidisciplinary team; 2) Minimum Core Test for the neuropsychological 
assessment; 3) PET, CSF, and Brain MRI assessments. Univariate and multivariate 
comparisons were conducted between CCDDs that met the criteria and the others.
RESULTS: Only 10.4% of CCDDs met the requirements for effective DMT 
prescription, mainly located in Northern Italy. They are also characterized by 
longer opening hours, a higher number of professionals, a university location, 
and a higher frequency of conducting genetic tests, and could potentially result 
in prescribing centers.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that the Italian national healthcare system 
may benefit from further enhancements to facilitate the effective prescription 
of DMTs. This could involve initiatives to reduce fragmentation, ensure adequate 
resources and equipment, and secure sufficient funding to support this aspect of 
healthcare delivery.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240594
PMCID: PMC11492016
PMID: 39213073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
report.


31. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(2):603-610. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240309.

Association of Young-Onset Dementia with Pre-Existing Peripheral Vestibular 
Disorders.

Hung SH(1)(2)(3), Chang AH(4), Cheng YF(5)(6)(7)(8), Lin HC(9)(10), Chen 
CS(8)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, School of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology, Wan Fang Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)International Ph.D. Program in Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Physical Therapy and Human Movement Sciences, Northwestern 
University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Department of Medical Research, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(6)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Taipei Veterans General 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, School of Medicine, 
National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu City, Taiwan.
(8)Research Center of Data Science on Healthcare Industry, College of 
Management, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(9)School of Health Care Administration, College of Management, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(10)Research Center of Sleep Medicine, Taipei Medical University Hospital, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(11)Department of Economics, National Taipei University, New Taipei City, 
Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between young-onset dementia and peripheral 
vestibular disorders remained largely unknown although this association was 
observed in the older population.
OBJECTIVE: This case-control study aims to investigate the association of 
young-onset dementia with a pre-existing diagnosis of peripheral vestibular 
disorders using a population-based data from Taiwan's Longitudinal Health 
Insurance Database 2010.
METHODS: This study included 989 patients with young-onset dementia and 2967 
propensity-score-matching controls. Differences in baseline characteristic 
between patients with young-onset dementia and controls were investigated using 
chi-square tests or t-tests. Multiple logistic regression models were employed 
to assess the association of young-onset dementia (outcome) with pre-existing 
peripheral vestibular disorders (predictor).
RESULTS: Compared to patients without young-onset dementia, those affected by 
this condition exhibited a statistically significantly higher rate of peripheral 
vestibular disorders (18.3% versus 8.2%, p < 0.001). Furthermore, our analysis 
found notable between-group disparities in the rates of Meniere's Disease (3.5% 
versus 2.0%, p= 0.015), benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (2.4% versus 1.1%, 
p= 0.006), and vestibular neuritis (2.4% versus 1.1%, p= 0.003). Multiple 
logistic regression analysis showed that the presence of prior peripheral 
vestibular disorders increased the odds of young-onset dementia [2.603 (95% 
CI = 2.105∼3.220)] after adjusting for age, sex, monthly income, geographic 
location, urbanization level, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, coronary heart disease, 
hearing loss, and hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: The study findings demonstrate a notable association between 
young-onset dementia and pre-existing peripheral vestibular disorders, 
suggesting that vestibular malfunction could play a role in the development of 
young-onset dementia.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240309
PMID: 39213069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(3):737-749. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240241.

A Comparison of an Australian Observational Longitudinal Alzheimer's Disease 
Cohort to Community-Based Australian Data.

Huynh ALH(1)(2)(3)(4), Wang Y(1)(2), Ma L(1)(2), Low YLC(1)(2), Chen W(5), 
Fowler C(1), Tan ECK(5), Masters CL(1), Jin L(1)(2), Pan Y(1)(2); AIBL Research 
Group.

Author information:
(1)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Parkville, VIC, 
Australia.
(2)Florey Department of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, Australia.
(3)Department of Aged Care, Austin Health, Heidelberg, VIC, Australia.
(4)Department of Medicine, Austin Health, University of Melbourne, Heidelberg, 
VIC, Australia.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney, 
Camperdown, NSW, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Observational Alzheimer's disease (AD) cohorts including the 
Australian, Biomarkers, Imaging and Lifestyle (AIBL) Study have enhanced our 
understanding of AD. The generalizability of findings from AIBL to the general 
population has yet to be studied.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to compare characteristics of people with AD dementia in 
AIBL to 1) the general population of older Australians using pharmacological 
treatment for AD dementia, and to 2) the general population of older Australians 
who self-reported a diagnosis of dementia.
METHODS: Descriptive study comparing people aged 65 years of over (1) in AIBL 
that had a diagnosis of AD dementia, (2) dispensed with pharmacological 
treatment for AD in Australia in 2021 linked to the Australian census in 2021 
(refer to as PBS/census), (3) self-reported a diagnosis of dementia in the 2021 
Australian census (refer to as dementia/census). Baseline characteristics 
included age, sex, highest education attainment, primary language, and medical 
co-morbidities.
RESULTS: Participants in AIBL were younger, had more years of education, and had 
a lower culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) population compared to the 
PBS/census cohort and dementia/census cohort (mean age±standard deviation - AIBL 
79±7 years, PBS/census 81±7, p < 0.001, dementia/census 83±8, p < 0.001; greater 
than 12 years of education AIBL 40%, PBS/census 35%, p = 0.020, dementia/census 
29%, p < 0.001; CALD - AIBL 3%, PBS/census 20%, p < 0.001, dementia/census 22%, 
p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that care should be taken regarding the 
generalizability of AIBL in CALD populations and the interpretation of results 
on the natural history of AD.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240241
PMCID: PMC11491991
PMID: 39213065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Colin Masters is an Editorial Board Member of 
this journal but was not involved in the peer-review process nor had access to 
any information regarding its peer-review. All other authors have no conflicts 
of interest to report.


33. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(2):379-396. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240092.

Recent Advances of Mitochondrial Alterations in Alzheimer's Disease: A 
Perspective of Mitochondrial Basic Events.

Wei W(1), Jiang Y(2), Hu G(2), He Y(3), Chen H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology, Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical 
University, Zhanjiang, Guangdong Province, China.
(2)Yuebei People's Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of Shantou University Medical 
College, Shaoguan, Guangdong Province, China.
(3)Department of Blood Transfusion, Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical 
University, Zhanjiang, Guangdong Province, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders 
and is characterized by a decrease in learning capacity, memory loss and 
behavioral changes. In addition to the well-recognized amyloid-β cascade 
hypothesis and hyperphosphorylated Tau hypothesis, accumulating evidence has led 
to the proposal of the mitochondrial dysfunction hypothesis as the primary 
etiology of AD. However, the predominant molecular mechanisms underlying the 
development and progression of AD have not been fully elucidated. Mitochondrial 
dysfunction is not only considered an early event in AD pathogenesis but is also 
involved in the whole course of the disease, with numerous pathophysiological 
processes, including disordered energy metabolism, Ca2+ homeostasis dysfunction 
and hyperactive oxidative stress. In the current review, we have integrated 
emerging evidence to summarize the main mitochondrial alterations- bioenergetic 
metabolism, mitochondrial inheritance, mitobiogenesis, fission- fusion dynamics, 
mitochondrial degradation, and mitochondrial movement- underlying AD 
pathogenesis; precisely identified the mitochondrial regulators; discussed the 
potential mechanisms and primary processes; highlighted the leading players; and 
noted additional incidental signaling pathway changes. This review may help to 
stimulate research exploring mitochondrial metabolically-oriented 
neuroprotection strategies in AD therapies, leading to a better understanding of 
the link between the mitochondrial dysfunction hypothesis and AD pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240092
PMID: 39213063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(3):715-729. doi: 10.3233/JAD-231466.

What Impact Does the Diagnosis of Mild Cognitive Impairment Have on the 
Wellbeing, Everyday Behavior, and Healthcare Utilization of People and Their 
Carers? A Systematic Review.

Connolly EM(1), Mc Ardle R(2), Bimpong KAA(1), Slight S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Newcastle University, Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK.
(2)Faculty of Medical Sciences, Translational and Clinical Research Institute, 
Newcastle University, Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK.

BACKGROUND: Dementia is a major cause of disability and dependency globally. 
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered an early indicator of developing 
dementia. There are growing efforts to detect and diagnose MCI earlier; 
consequently, we need to understand the perspectives of individuals and carers 
regarding the implications of an MCI diagnosis.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically review qualitative literature to understand the 
impact of a MCI diagnosis on both the individual and their carers, focusing on 
wellbeing, everyday behaviors, and healthcare utilization.
METHODS: Key search terms were input into five databases. Studies were included 
if they were peer-reviewed qualitative research published in English that 
obtained perspectives of community-dwellers with MCI or carers and focused on 
either their wellbeing, everyday behaviors and/or healthcare utilization. The 
protocol was pre-registered on PROSPERO (CRD42021291995). Data was synthesized 
narratively.
RESULTS: Key findings from 15 eligible articles highlighted the negative impact 
of an MCI diagnosis on the wellbeing of both individuals and carers, due to 
stigma and limited understanding regarding diagnosis/prognosis. Changes in 
everyday behavior varied, particularly regarding motivation to engage with 
physical activity, hobbies and social opportunities. Both individuals and carers 
were sometimes dissatisfied with healthcare services; ineffective communication 
during clinical consolations highlighted as a reason for lack of trust in 
clinicians.
CONCLUSIONS: Results indicate that an MCI diagnosis impacts both people with MCI 
and their carers across key facets of life. There is a critical need to 
effectively communicate the diagnosis and prognosis of MCI to support wellbeing 
and everyday activities and ensure trust in healthcare services.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-231466
PMID: 39213061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. JMIR Ment Health. 2024 Aug 30;11:e57401. doi: 10.2196/57401.

Evaluation of Digital Mental Health Technologies in the United States: 
Systematic Literature Review and Framework Synthesis.

Catania J(1), Beaver S(1), Kamath RS(1), Worthington E(2), Lu M(3), Gandhi H(3), 
Waters HC(3), Malone DC(4).

Author information:
(1)Costello Medical, Boston, MA, United States.
(2)Costello Medical, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(3)Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization Inc, Princeton, NJ, 
United States.
(4)Department of Pharmacotherapy, Skaggs College of Pharmacy, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, United States.

BACKGROUND: Digital mental health technologies (DMHTs) have the potential to 
enhance mental health care delivery. However, there is little information on how 
DMHTs are evaluated and what factors influence their use.
OBJECTIVE: A systematic literature review was conducted to understand how DMHTs 
are valued in the United States from user, payer, and employer perspectives.
METHODS: Articles published after 2017 were identified from MEDLINE, Embase, 
PsycINFO, Cochrane Library, the Health Technology Assessment Database, and 
digital and mental health congresses. Each article was evaluated by 2 
independent reviewers to identify US studies reporting on factors considered in 
the evaluation of DMHTs targeting mental health, Alzheimer disease, epilepsy, 
autism spectrum disorder, or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Study 
quality was assessed using the Critical Appraisal Skills Program Qualitative and 
Cohort Studies Checklists. Studies were coded and indexed using the American 
Psychiatric Association's Mental Health App Evaluation Framework to extract and 
synthesize relevant information, and novel themes were added iteratively as 
identified.
RESULTS: Of the 4353 articles screened, data from 26 unique studies from 
patient, caregiver, and health care provider perspectives were included. 
Engagement style was the most reported theme (23/26, 88%), with users valuing 
DMHT usability, particularly alignment with therapeutic goals through features 
including anxiety management tools. Key barriers to DMHT use included limited 
internet access, poor technical literacy, and privacy concerns. Novel findings 
included the discreetness of DMHTs to avoid stigma.
CONCLUSIONS: Usability, cost, accessibility, technical considerations, and 
alignment with therapeutic goals are important to users, although DMHT valuation 
varies across individuals. DMHT apps should be developed and selected with 
specific user needs in mind.

©Julianna Catania, Steph Beaver, Rakshitha S Kamath, Emma Worthington, Minyi Lu, 
Hema Gandhi, Heidi C Waters, Daniel C Malone. Originally published in JMIR 
Mental Health (https://mental.jmir.org), 30.08.2024.

DOI: 10.2196/57401
PMCID: PMC11399741
PMID: 39213023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: DCM is a consultant for 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization (OPDC) Inc for this 
project and has received consulting funds from Pear Therapeutics, Sanofi, 
Avidity, Sarepta, Novartis, and BioMarin. ML, HG, and HCW are employees of OPDC. 
JC, SB, RSK, and EW are employees of Costello Medical. This research was funded 
by OPDC.


36. JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Aug 1;7(8):e2431110. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.31110.

Consumer Perceptions of Safety Information in Direct-to-Consumer Print 
Advertisements for Alzheimer Drugs.

Markell J(1), Odouard I(1), Anderson GF(1), DiStefano MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Center for Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Department of Clinical Pharmacy, 
Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Colorado 
Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora.

Plain Language Summary: This survey study assesses the effectiveness of drug 
advertisement to shape perception of the benefits and risks of and personal 
willingness to use and recommend an advertised drug.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.31110
PMCID: PMC11364991
PMID: 39212994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Ms Odouard 
reported being previously employed as a consultant at Blue Matter Consulting and 
Health Technology Analysts outside the submitted work. Dr DiStefano reported 
receiving grants from the PhRMA Foundation and the Institute for Clinical and 
Economic Review outside the submitted work. No other disclosures were reported.


37. J Neurol. 2024 Oct;271(10):6847-6855. doi: 10.1007/s00415-024-12650-4. Epub
2024  Aug 30.

Sparse item testing of clinical scales in neurology trials to alleviate burden 
to patients.

Chen C(1), Novakovic A(2), Jamsen K(3), Vong C(4), Arshad U(5).

Author information:
(1)GSK, London, UK. thechaochen@gmail.com.
(2)Parexel International, Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)Parexel International, Brisbane, Australia.
(4)GSK, Baar, Switzerland.
(5)GSK, Stevenage, UK.

BACKGROUND: Neurology trials typically rely on composite scales for measuring 
symptom severity. Completing all items in a long scale can be burdensome for 
patients, caregivers, and trial personnel.
OBJECTIVES: To test the hypothesis that sparse item testing, aided by 
item-response modelling, can preserve the power for detecting treatment effect 
in a controlled trial.
METHODS: UPDRS (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale) Part III (motor 
examinations) data from a placebo-controlled trial (N = 391) of ropinirole were 
analysed with a longitudinal item-response model. Symptom severity was estimated 
directly from item scores as a latent variable, without needing the total score. 
This enabled sparse item testing. With the symptom severity as a clinical 
endpoint, the potential power loss for detecting treatment effect due to the 
sparse testing was assessed by simulation.
RESULTS: When each patient took 18 of all 27 tests in UPDRS Part III at each 
study visit, there was no appreciable power loss. Reducing four visits to three 
also had negligible effects on power. A threefold reduction of the total tests 
that each patient needed to do throughout the trial, from 108 to 27, only 
compromised power slightly, e.g., from 92 to 87% at N = 160.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings show that using the symptom severity derived from 
item scores as the endpoint allows sparse testing to drastically reduce trial 
burden without incurring major power loss. This benefit would multiply for 
indications like Alzheimer's disease where modern trials often require patients 
to be tested on multiple scales at several times.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-024-12650-4
PMCID: PMC11446946
PMID: 39212742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors conducted this research as employees 
of their respective affiliations. The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


38. Altern Ther Health Med. 2024 Sep;30(9):54-64.

Therapeutic Evaluation of Unani Medicine, Including Single Drugs and Polyherbal 
Formulations with Special Reference to Neurodegenerative Disorders.

Imran S, Ahmad W, Saltanat S.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Unani remedies are considered safe and can be 
utilized as a healthcare resource due to the adverse effects of conventional 
pharmaceuticals. For instance, Donepezil, used to treat alzhemier's disease 
exerts many adverse effects such as dizziness, vertigo, dryness of mouth. 
Similarly, Memantine used to slow the neurotoxicity involved in alzhemier's 
disease also exerts adverse effects like vomiting, tremors and sleep 
disturbance. Over sixty percent of drugs are derived from synthetic basis, 
highlighting the potential benefits of natural Unani treatments as a safer 
alternative. Neurodegenerative disorders are illnesses characterized by 
structural and functional deterioration due to abnormal protein aggregation, 
resulting in inflammation and oxidative stress in the central nervous system. In 
unani system of medicine all current brain ailments, including alzheimer's 
disease, parkinson's disease, mania, anxiety, melancholia and others are 
classified under the general category of neurodegenerative disorders Their 
pathogenic variables and soociated symptoms and therapeutic modalities are 
similar. This study focuses on evidence-based Unani herbs and polyherbal 
formulations for the treatment of various neurodegenerative disorders. It 
reveals that 43 ethnomedicinal plants can be employed to treat the symptoms of 
neurodegenerative disorders. The material was gathered from several sources that 
tabulated the specific details of individual herbs and polyherbal formulations 
and highlighted the importance of various phytoconstituents on neuroprotective 
action. The research provides in vivo and scientific evidence to support the use 
of ethnomedicine in treating neurodegenerative disorders.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aims to validate the efficacy of Unani medicines, 
traditionally used for neurodegenerative diorders through evidence-based 
research.
METHODS: To scan single and polyherbal formulations for neurodegenerative 
disorders, a literature review of traditional Unani medicine texts was 
conducted. To collect evidence on the efficacy of these indicated medications in 
the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders, electronic resources such as 
ScienceDirect, PubMed, Wiley Online Library, and Google Scholar were searched. 
The current study is a systematic review that applies inclusion and exclusion 
criteria rooted in the classical symptoms of neurological disorders. It 
evaluates the efficacy of individual herbs and polyherbal formulations 
recommended by Unani scholars for treatment perspectives.
RESULTS: The researchers have so far discovered 43 single drugs and 38 
polyherbal formulations in Unani classical literature for treating various 
neurodegenerative disorders. These herbs have antioxidant, anti-Alzheimer's, 
anti-Parkinsonism, anti-convulsant, cognitive enhancer, anti-anxiety, 
neuroprotective, and anti-depressant properties, with clinical investigations 
proving their efficacy. The study exclusively focuses on systematic review, 
highlighting selected clinical studies to assess their quality and reliability 
of evidence. These are discussed in the introduction to provide context and 
understanding.
CONCLUSIONS: After a thorough review of entire literature of Unani medicine, it 
is evident that has painstakingly focused more on physiopathology of diseases of 
Dimāgh wa A'sāb including their treatment protocols .These protocols include 
Istifrāgh (biopurification), Taskhīn (producing warmth), Tajfiīf (desiccation), 
Tafrīħ-i Taba' (exhilaration). Research into Unani medicine has shown promising 
results, particularly in the use of medicinal plants known for their 
neuroprotective properties. One of the key advantages of Unani herbs is their 
natural composition, which typically consists of bioactive compounds that exert 
neuroprotective effects without the harsh impact often associated with synthetic 
drugs. For instance, herbs like Brahmi(Bacopa monnieri), Waj Turki (Acorus 
calamus), Chilghoza(Pinus gerardiana Wall) and Asgand (Withania somnifera) and 
many other plants have been studied for their ability to enhance cognitive 
function, reduce oxidative stress, and support neuronal health. These herbs work 
through various mechanisms such as antioxidant activity, anti-inflammatory 
properties, and modulation of neurotransmitter levels, all of which contribute 
to their neuroprotective potential. Nevertheless some of the compound 
formulations presented, that, have not yet undergone clinical testing. As a 
result, the researchers are advised to validate those medicines that have not 
yet undergone clinical evaluation.

PMID: 39212516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Am J Chin Med. 2024;52(5):1359-1396. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X2450054X. Epub
2024  Aug 29.

Chinese Medicine-Derived Salvianolic Acid B for Disease Therapy: A Scientometric 
Study.

Zhao M(1), Mu F(1), Lin R(1), Gao K(1), Zhang W(1), Tao X(1), Xu D(1), Wang 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University, 
Xi'an 710032, Shaanxi Province, P. R. China.

Salvianolic acid B (SalB), among the most abundant bioactive polyphenolic 
compounds found in Salvia miltiorrhiza Bge., exerts therapeutic and protective 
effects against various diseases. Although some summaries of the activities of 
SalB exist, there is lack of a scientometric and in-depth review regarding 
disease therapy. In this review, scientometrics was employed to analyze the 
number of articles, publication trends, countries, institutions, keywords, and 
highly cited papers pertaining to SalB research. The scientometric findings 
showed that SalB exerts excellent protective effects on the heart, lungs, liver, 
bones, and brain, along with significant therapeutic effects against 
atherosclerosis (AS), Alzheimer's disease (AD), liver fibrosis, diabetes, 
heart/brain ischemia, and osteoporosis, by regulating signaling pathways and 
acting on specific molecular targets. Moreover, this review delves into in-depth 
insights and perspectives, such as the utilization of SalB in combination with 
other drugs, the validation of molecular mechanisms and targets, and the 
research and development of novel drug carriers and dosage forms. In conclusion, 
this review aimed to offer a comprehensive scientometric analysis and in-depth 
appraisal of SalB research, encompassing both present achievements and future 
prospects, thereby providing a valuable resource for the clinical application 
and therapeutic exploitation of SalB.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X2450054X
PMID: 39212495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Oct;20(10):6776-6792. doi: 10.1002/alz.14120. Epub
2024  Aug 30.

Cellular prion protein acts as mediator of amyloid beta uptake by caveolin-1 
causing cellular dysfunctions in vitro and in vivo.

da Silva Correia A(1), Schmitz M(1), Fischer AL(1), da Silva Correia S(1), 
Simonetti FL(2), Saher G(3), Goya-Maldonado R(4), Arora AS(5), Fischer A(6)(7), 
Outeiro TF(8)(9)(10)(11), Zerr I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center and the German Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Georg-August University, Goettingen, Germany.
(2)Fundación Instituto Leloir, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Department of Neurogenetics, Max Planck Institute for Multidisciplinary 
Sciences, Goettingen, Germany.
(4)Laboratory of Systems Neuroscience and Imaging in Psychiatry (SNIP-Lab), 
Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Goettingen 
(UMG), Goettingen, Germany.
(5)Texas Therapeutics Institute, Brown Foundation Institute of Molecular 
Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas, 
USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center 
Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany.
(7)Department for Systems Medicine and Epigenetics in Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Goettingen, 
Goettingen, Germany.
(8)Department of Experimental Neurodegeneration, Center for Nanoscale Microscopy 
and Molecular Physiology of the Brain, Center for Biostructural Imaging of 
Neurodegeneration, University Medical Center Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany.
(9)Max Planck Institute for Multidisciplinary Sciences, Goettingen, Germany.
(10)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Newcastle University, Newcastle, UK.
(11)Scientific employee with an honorary contract at Deutsches Zentrum für 
Neurodegenerative Erkrankungen (DZNE), Goettingen, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Cellular prion protein (PrPC) was implicated in amyloid beta 
(Aβ)-induced toxicity in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the precise molecular 
mechanisms involved in this process are unclear.
METHODS: Double transgenic mice were generated by crossing Prnp knockout (KO) 
with 5xFAD mice, and light-sheet microscopy was used for whole brain tissue 
analyses. PrPC-overexpressing cells were developed for in vitro studies, and 
microscopy was used to assess co-localization of proteins of interest. 
Surface-plasmon resonance (SPR) was used to investigate protein-binding 
characteristics.
RESULTS: In vivo, PrPC levels correlated with reduced lifespan and cognitive and 
motor function, and its ablation disconnected behavior deficits from Aβ levels. 
Light-sheet microscopy showed that PrPC influenced Aβ-plaque burden but not the 
distribution of those plaques. Interestingly, caveolin-1 (Cav-1) KO neurons 
significantly reduced intracellular Aβ-oligomer (Aβo) uptake when compared to 
wild-type neurons.
DISCUSSION: The findings shed new light on the relevance of intracellular Aβo, 
suggesting that PrPC and Cav-1 modulate intracellular Aβ levels and the 
Aβ-plaque load.
HIGHLIGHTS: PrPC expression adversely affects lifespan and behavior in 5xFAD 
mice. PrPC increases Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 levels and Aβ-plaque load in 5xFAD mice. 
Cav-1 interacts with both PrPC and Aβ peptides. Knocking out Cav-1 leads to a 
significant reduction in intracellular Aβ levels.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14120
PMCID: PMC11485400
PMID: 39212313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


41. Anxiety Stress Coping. 2025 Mar;38(2):219-233. doi: 
10.1080/10615806.2024.2396419. Epub 2024 Aug 30.

"Why miss today worrying about tomorrow?" A qualitative investigation of ways 
middle-aged and older adults manage dementia-related anxiety.

Maxfield M(1)(2), Peckham A(1)(2), James DL(1), Koffer RE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Edson College of Nursing and Health Innovation, Arizona State University, 
Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(2)Center for Innovation in Healthy and Resilient Aging, Arizona State 
University, Phoenix, AZ, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Dementia-related anxiety (DRA) is the fear or anxiety 
about a current or future diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or another type of 
dementia. The purpose of the present study was to examine management of DRA.
METHODS AND DESIGN: In semi-structured qualitative interviews, 50 
community-dwelling adults (58-89 years old, M = 70.80, SD = 6.02) without 
dementia diagnoses reflected on their thoughts and feelings about dementia. A 
reflexive inductive thematic approach was used to examine ways people managed 
DRA.
RESULTS: We identified five themes related to managing DRA: monitoring cognitive 
status (e.g., self-monitoring or objective assessment); active coping strategies 
(e.g., using external reminders, normalizing age-related change); interpersonal 
relationships and support (e.g., anticipating benefit of support from others); 
planning and preparing for potential outcomes (e.g., securing power of attorney, 
saying goodbyes); and personal responsibility to manage risk or accept diagnosis 
(e.g., lifestyle factors to reduce dementia risk, thereby reducing risk for 
burdening others).
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest internal and external means for coping with DRA 
that are likely to vary in degrees of usefulness. We consider findings within 
the context of relevant, established theories, attending to potential clinical 
interventions for individuals experiencing DRA.

DOI: 10.1080/10615806.2024.2396419
PMID: 39211960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Aug 15:2024.08.15.608092. doi: 
10.1101/2024.08.15.608092.

Serum Amyloid P Secreted by Bone Marrow Adipocytes Drives Skeletal Amyloidosis.

Kumar S, Song K, Wang J, Baghel MS, Wong P, Cao X, Wan M.

Update in
    Nat Aging. 2025 Sep;5(9):1771-1789. doi: 10.1038/s43587-025-00924-z.

The accumulation of amyloid fibrils has been identified in tissues outside the 
brain, yet little is understood about the formation of extracerebral amyloidosis 
and its impact on the aging process of these organs. Here, we demonstrate that 
both transgenic mice modeling Alzheimer's disease (AD) and naturally aging mice 
exhibit accumulated senescent bone marrow adipocytes (BMAds), accompanied by 
amyloid deposits surrounding the BMAds. Senescent BMAds acquire a secretory 
phenotype, resulting in a marked increase in the secretion of serum amyloid P 
component (SAP), also known as pentraxin 2 (PTX2). SAP/PTX2 colocalizes with 
amyloid deposits around senescent BMAds in vivo and is sufficient to promote the 
formation of insoluble amyloid deposits from soluble Aβ peptides in in vitro and 
ex vivo 3D BMAd-based culture experiments. Additionally, Combined treatment with 
SAP/PTX2 and Aβ peptides promotes osteoclastogenesis but inhibits 
osteoblastogenesis of the precursor cells. Transplantation of senescent BMAds 
into the bone marrow cavity of healthy young mice is sufficient to induce bone 
loss. Finally, pharmacological depletion of SAP/PTX2 from aged mice abolishes 
bone marrow amyloid deposition and effectively rescues the low bone mass 
phenotype. Thus, senescent BMAds, through the secretion of SAP/PTX2, contribute 
to the age-associated development of skeletal amyloidosis and resultant bone 
deficits.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.08.15.608092
PMCID: PMC11361041
PMID: 39211279


43. Eur J Med Res. 2024 Aug 29;29(1):438. doi: 10.1186/s40001-024-02006-z.

Efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors-related antidepressants in 
Alzheimer's disease: a meta-analysis.

Wang H(1), Li S(2)(3), Zhang J(2), Peng W(4), Li T(5), Zhang J(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, The Second Hospital of Shandong 
University, 247 Beiyuan St, Jinan, 250033, China.
(2)Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250355, China.
(3)Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
(4)Affiliated Hospital of Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Jinan, 250000, China.
(5)School of Basic Medicine, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, 710032, 
China.
(6)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, The Second Hospital of Shandong 
University, 247 Beiyuan St, Jinan, 250033, China. zjx2018zjx@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: To study the effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors 
(SSRIs) on cognitive functions, mental improvements, and adverse effects in 
patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: Registered in INPLASY (INPLASY202450004), five drugs (citalopram, 
s-citalopram, quetiapine, olanzapine, and sertraline) were selected as 
representatives. A comprehensive search was conducted in PubMed, EMBASE, Web of 
Science, and the Cochrane Library up to May 15, 2024. Search terms were combined 
using Boolean operators, specifically 'AND' between different categories (e.g., 
'Alzheimer's Disease' AND 'SSRIs') and 'OR' within the same category (e.g., 
'citalopram OR s-citalopram OR quetiapine OR olanzapine OR sertraline'), to 
ensure a thorough retrieval of relevant studies. The selection followed rigorous 
inclusion and exclusion criteria for meta-analysis.
RESULTS: Fourteen articles from 1118 were selected for meta-analysis. The 
indicators, including Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE), Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), and Cornell Scale for 
Depression in Dementia (CSDD), were used to assess the effects of the drugs on 
AD treatment. According to the results of NPI, CSDD, BPRS, MMSE, and security 
assessments, the five antidepressants have significant advantages in AD 
treatment compared with placebo, while the MMSE of the patient treated with the 
antidepressants did not show notable changes compared with patients treated only 
with placebo. Statistical analyses were conducted using Review Manager 5.3, 
employing random-effects models to account for study heterogeneity and 
sensitivity analyses to test the robustness of our findings.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that SSRI-related antidepressants have great 
potential values in AD treatment, and further research on the application of 
SSRI-related antidepressants in AD treatment is necessary.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40001-024-02006-z
PMCID: PMC11360319
PMID: 39210432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests.


44. Nat Neurosci. 2024 Oct;27(10):1892-1903. doi: 10.1038/s41593-024-01743-y.
Epub  2024 Aug 29.

Characteristics of blood-brain barrier heterogeneity between brain regions 
revealed by profiling vascular and perivascular cells.

Pfau SJ(#)(1), Langen UH(#)(1)(2), Fisher TM(1), Prakash I(1), Nagpurwala F(1), 
Lozoya RA(1), Lee WA(3), Wu Z(4), Gu C(5).

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Roche Pharma Research and Early Development, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases 
Discovery and Translational Area, Roche Innovation Center Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(3)F.M. Kirby Neurobiology Center, Boston Children's Hospital and Department of 
Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research Institute, Feil Family 
Brain and Mind Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA. chenghua_gu@hms.harvard.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) protects the brain and maintains neuronal 
homeostasis. BBB properties can vary between brain regions to support regional 
functions, yet how BBB heterogeneity occurs is poorly understood. Here, we used 
single-cell and spatial transcriptomics to compare the mouse median eminence, 
one of the circumventricular organs that has naturally leaky blood vessels, with 
the cortex. We identified hundreds of molecular differences in endothelial cells 
(ECs) and perivascular cells, including astrocytes, pericytes and fibroblasts. 
Using electron microscopy and an aqueous-based tissue-clearing method, we 
revealed distinct anatomical specializations and interaction patterns of ECs and 
perivascular cells in these regions. Finally, we identified candidate regionally 
enriched EC-perivascular cell ligand-receptor pairs. Our results indicate that 
both molecular specializations in ECs and unique EC-perivascular cell 
interactions contribute to BBB functional heterogeneity. This platform can be 
used to investigate BBB heterogeneity in other regions and may facilitate the 
development of central nervous system region-specific therapeutics.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41593-024-01743-y
PMCID: PMC11452347
PMID: 39210068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


45. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2024 Oct;135(4):375-400. doi:
10.1111/bcpt.14073.  Epub 2024 Aug 29.

Transient receptor potential channels as an emerging target for the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease: Unravelling the potential of pharmacological interventions.

Joshi N(1), Vaidya B(1), Sharma SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research, S.A.S. Nagar, Mohali, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating disorder with a multifaceted aetiology 
characterized by dementia, which later progresses to cognitive impairment. 
Significant efforts have been made to develop pharmacological interventions that 
slow down the pathogenesis of AD. However, conventional drugs have failed to 
satisfactorily treat AD and are more focussed towards symptomatic management. 
Thus, there is a gap in the literature regarding novel targets and modulators 
targeting them for the effective treatment of AD. Recent studies have 
demonstrated that modulation of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels has 
the potential to halt AD pathogenesis at an early stage and rescue hippocampal 
neurons from death. Amongst several members, TRP channels like TRPA1, TRPC6, 
TRPM2 and TRPV2 have shown promising results in the attenuation of 
neurobehavioural cognitive deficits as well as signalling pathways governing 
such cognitive decline. Furthermore, as these channels govern the ionic balance 
in the cell, their beneficial effects have also been known to maintain the 
homeostasis of Ca2+, which is the major culprit eliciting the vicious cycle of 
excitotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, ROS generation and neurodegeneration. 
Despite such tremendous potential of TRP channel modulators, their clinical 
investigation remains elusive. Therefore, in the present review, we have 
discussed such agents in the light of TRP channels as molecular targets for the 
amelioration of AD both at the preclinical and clinical levels.

© 2024 Nordic Association for the Publication of BCPT (former Nordic 
Pharmacological Society). Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bcpt.14073
PMID: 39209323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Brain Res. 2024 Dec 15;1845:149203. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149203. Epub
 2024 Aug 28.

Alantolactone improves cognitive impairment in rats with Porphyromonas 
gingivalis infection by inhibiting neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and 
reducing Aβ levels.

Chen S(1), Han C(1), Wang X(1), Zhang Q(2), Yang X(3).

Author information:
(1)Qinghai University Graduate School, Xining, China.
(2)Department of Magnetic Resonance, Qinghai Provincial People's Hospital, 
Xining 810000, China. Electronic address: 13897583650@163.com.
(3)Department of Neurology, Qinghai Provincial People's Hospital, Xining 810000, 
China. Electronic address: 2645677049@qq.com.

Neuroinflammation caused by the chronic periodontal pathogen Porphyromonas 
gingivalis is growing regarded as as a key factor in the pathogenesis of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Alantolactone (AL), a sesquiterpene lactone isolated 
from the root of Inula racemosa Hook. f, has been proven to provide various 
neuroprotective effects. However, whether AL can improve cognitive impairment 
caused by P. gingivalis infection remains unclear. In this research, a rat model 
of P. gingivalis infection was used to examine the neuroprotective benefits of 
AL. The results revealed that 6 weeks of AL treatment (50 and 100 mg/kg) 
shortened escape latency and increased the number of crossings over the platform 
location and time spent in the target quadrant of P. gingivalis-infected rats in 
the Morris water maze experiment. By activating the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway, AL 
suppressed malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and simultaneously increased the 
activity of total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD). Furthermore, AL lowered the 
presence of IL-6, IL-1β, and TNFα in the hippocampal and cortical tissues of P. 
gingivalis-infected rats by inhibiting astrocyte and microglial activation and 
NF-κB phosphorylation. AL also significantly reduced Aβ levels in the cortical 
and hippocampus tissues of rats infected with P. gingivalis. In conclusion, AL 
improved cognitive impairment in P. gingivalis-infected rats by inhibiting 
neuroinflammation, reducing Aβ1-42 level, and exerting antioxidative stress 
effects.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149203
PMID: 39208968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


47. Neurobiol Aging. 2024 Nov;143:30-40. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2024.08.007.  Epub 2024 Aug 22.

Plasma p-tau181 and amyloid markers in Alzheimer's disease: A comparison between 
Lumipulse and SIMOA.

Quaresima V(1), Pilotto A(2), Trasciatti C(3), Tolassi C(1), Parigi M(4), 
Bertoli D(5), Mordenti C(5), Galli A(3), Rizzardi A(6), Caratozzolo S(6), 
Benussi A(7), Ashton NJ(8), Blennow K(9), Zetterberg H(10), Giliani S(4), 
Brugnoni D(5), Padovani A(11).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; Department of continuity of care and frailty, 
Neurology Unit, ASST Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy; Residency Program 
in Clinical Pathology and Clinical Biochemistry, Department of Molecular and 
Translational Medicine, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; 
Neurobiorepository and Laboratory of advanced biological markers, University of 
Brescia and ASST Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy; A. Nocivelli Institute 
for Molecular Medicine Spedali Civili Hospital and Department of Molecular and 
Translational Medicine, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(2)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; Department of continuity of care and frailty, 
Neurology Unit, ASST Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy; Neurobiorepository 
and Laboratory of advanced biological markers, University of Brescia and ASST 
Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy. Electronic address: 
pilottoandreae@gmail.com.
(3)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; Department of continuity of care and frailty, 
Neurology Unit, ASST Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy; Neurobiorepository 
and Laboratory of advanced biological markers, University of Brescia and ASST 
Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy.
(4)A. Nocivelli Institute for Molecular Medicine Spedali Civili Hospital and 
Department of Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(5)Central Clinical Laboratory, ASST Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy.
(6)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; Department of continuity of care and frailty, 
Neurology Unit, ASST Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy.
(7)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; Department of continuity of care and frailty, 
Neurology Unit, ASST Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy; Neurology Clinic, 
Trieste University Hospital, Trieste, Italy.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden; Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger 
University Hospital, Stavanger, Norway; King's College London, Institute of 
Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience 
Institute, London, UK; NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health & 
Biomedical Research Unit for Dementia at South London & Maudsley NHS 
Foundation, London, UK; Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, AZ 
85351, USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden; NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental 
Health & Biomedical Research Unit for Dementia at South London & Maudsley NHS 
Foundation, London, UK; Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of 
Life Sciences and Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and 
Brain Disorders, University of Science and Technology of China and First 
Affiliated Hospital of USTC, Hefei, PR China; Paris Brain Institute, ICM, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, Paris, France.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska 
University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden; Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, 
UCL Institute of Neurology, London, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute at 
UCL, London, UK; Department of Old Age Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Psychology, and Neuroscience, King's College London, UK; Hong Kong Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease 
Research Center, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(11)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; Department of continuity of care and frailty, 
Neurology Unit, ASST Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy; Neurobiorepository 
and Laboratory of advanced biological markers, University of Brescia and ASST 
Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy; Brain Health Center, University of 
Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

Aim of the project was to evaluate the technical and clinical validity of plasma 
Lumipulse p-tau, Aβ42 and Aβ40 species and their correlation with CSF core 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) markers; a method comparison with SIMOA was also 
performed. One-hundred-thirthy-three participants, namely 55 A+T+N+ AD, 28 
Neurodegenerative disorders (NDD) and 50 controls were enrolled for the study. 
Lumipulse technical validity showed high stability for p-tau181, Aβ42, and Aβ40, 
with higher stability of p-tau to repeated freezing thaw cycles. p-tau181 levels 
detected by both techniques were higher in AD compared to both NDD/controls and 
exhibited a similar correlation with CSF p-tau levels, whereas Aβ42 levels were 
slightly lower in AD with both methods. In the comparison between SIMOA and 
Lumipulse plasma markers, both techniques exhibited similar diagnostic accuracy 
for AD for p-tau181 (0.87; 95 %CI 0.81-0.94, vs 0.85; 95 %CI 0.78-0.93), whereas 
the best performance was reached by p-tau181/ Aβ42 Lumipulse ratio (ROC AUC 
0.915, 95 %CI 0.86-0.97). The study thus confirmed the construct validity of 
both Lumipulse and SIMOA techniques for the identification of CSF AD pattern in 
clinical settings.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2024.08.007
PMID: 39208716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest APi received 
travel grants from Bial, Abbvie, Zambon pharma, Roche, Lundbeck pharma; he 
received grants from Bial, Biomarin, Abbvie, CHiesi, and Zambon pharmaceuticals. 
HZ has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, 
Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry 
Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, 
Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work). APa received grant support from 
Ministry of Health (MINSAL) and Ministry of Education, Research and University 
(MIUR), from CARIPLO Foundation; personal compensation as a 
consultant/scientific advisory board member for Biogen, Lundbeck, Roche, 
Nutricia, General Healthcare (GE).


48. Neurology. 2024 Sep 24;103(6):e209818. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000209818.
Epub  2024 Aug 29.

CSF α-Synuclein Seed Amplification Assay in Patients With Atypical Parkinsonian 
Disorders.

Anastassiadis C(1), Martinez-Valbuena I(1), Vasilevskaya A(1), Thapa S(1), 
Hadian M(1), Morales-Rivero A(1), Mora-Fisher D(1), Salvo C(1), Taghdiri F(1), 
Sato C(1), Moreno D(1), Anor CJ(1), Misquitta K(1), Couto B(1), Tang-Wai DF(1), 
Lang AE(1), Fox SH(1), Rogaeva E(1), Kovacs GG(1), Tartaglia MC(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases (C.A., 
I.M.-V., A.V., S.T., M.H., F.T., C. Sato, D.M., C.J.A., K.M., A.E.L., E.R., 
G.G.K., M.C.T.); Krembil Brain Institute (I.M.-V., A.M.-R., B.C., D.F.T.-W., 
A.E.L., S.H.F., G.G.K., M.C.T.); The Edmond J. Safra Program in Parkinson's 
Disease and Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorders Clinic (I.M.-V., 
A.M.-R., B.C., A.E.L., S.H.F., G.G.K., M.C.T.); Rossy Progressive Supranuclear 
Palsy Centre (I.M.-V., A.M.-R., A.E.L., G.G.K., M.C.T.), University Health 
Network and the University of Toronto; and University Health Network Memory 
Clinic (D.M.-F., C. Salvo, D.F.T.-W.), Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: There is no disease-modifying treatment of 
corticobasal syndrome (CBS) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), 2 
disorders characterized by their striking phenotypic, and, in CBS, pathologic 
heterogeneity. Seed amplification assays (SAAs) could enable the detection of 
neuropathologic processes, such as α-synuclein (αSyn) copathology, that affect 
the success of future disease-modifying treatment strategies. The primary 
objective was to assess possible αSyn copathology in CBS and PSP, as detected in 
CSF using an αSyn SAA (αSyn-SAA). Secondary objectives were to evaluate the 
association of αSyn-SAA positivity with other biomarkers including of Alzheimer 
disease (AD), and with clinical presentation. We hypothesized that αSyn-SAA 
positivity would be detectable in CBS and PSP and that it would be associated 
with AD biomarker positivity and β-amyloid (Aβ) 42 levels, neurodegeneration as 
assessed by neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels, and symptoms associated with 
synucleinopathies.
METHODS: This cross-sectional observational study included patients clinically 
diagnosed with CBS and PSP who underwent a lumbar puncture between 2012 and 2021 
(Toronto Western Hospital, Canada). CSF was tested for αSyn-SAA positivity, AD 
biomarkers, and NfL levels. Clinical data were derived from medical records.
RESULTS: We tested the CSF of 40 patients with CBS (19 female patients, 65.9 ± 
8.6 years) and 28 with PSP (13 female patients, 72.5 ± 8.7 years old), mostly 
White (n = 50) or Asian (n = 14). αSyn-SAA positivity was observed in 35.9% 
patients with CBS and 28.6% with PSP. In young-onset, but not late-onset 
patients, αSyn-SAA positivity and AD positivity were associated (odds ratio [OR] 
8.8, 95% CI 1.2-82.6, p < 0.05). A multivariable linear regression analysis 
showed a significant interaction of αSyn-SAA status by age at onset on CSF Aβ42 
levels (β = 0.3 ± 0.1, p < 0.05). Indeed, age at onset was positively related to 
Aβ42 levels only in αSyn-SAA-positive patients, as shown by slope comparison. A 
logistic regression analysis also suggested that REM sleep behavior disorder was 
associated with αSyn-SAA positivity (OR 60.2, 95% CI 5.2-1,965.8; p < 0.01).
DISCUSSION: We detected a frequency of αSyn-SAA positivity in CBS and PSP in 
line with pathologic studies, highlighting the usefulness of SAAs for in vivo 
detection of otherwise undetectable neuropathologic processes. Our results also 
suggest that AD status (specifically low Aβ42) and older age at onset may 
contribute to αSyn-SAA positivity. This opens new perspectives for the 
stratification of patients in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000209818
PMID: 39208367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2024 Sep 18;15(18):3363-3383. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00341. Epub 2024 Aug 29.

Discovery of New Highly Potent Histamine H(3) Receptor Antagonists, Calcium 
Channel Blockers, and Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors.

Malek R(1)(2), Sałat K(3), Totoson P(4), Karcz T(5), Refouvelet B(1), 
Skrzypczak-Wiercioch A(6), Maj M(7), Simakov A(4), Martin H(4), Siwek A(8), 
Szałaj N(9), Godyń J(9), Panek D(9), Więckowska A(9), Jozwiak K(7), Demougeot 
C(4), Kieć-Kononowicz K(5), Chabchoub F(2), Iriepa I(10)(11), Marco-Contelles 
J(12)(13), Ismaili L(1).

Author information:
(1)Université de Franche-Comté, INSERM, UMR 1322 LINC, F-25000 Besançon, France.
(2)Laboratory of Applied Chemistry: Heterocycles, Lipids and Polymers, Faculty 
of Sciences of Sfax, University of Sfax, B. P 802, Sfax 3000, Tunisia.
(3)Department of Pharmacodynamics, Chair of Pharmacodynamics, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Jagiellonian University Medical College, Kraków 30-688, Poland.
(4)Université de Franche-Comté, EFS, INSERM, UMR 1098 RIGHT, F-25000 Besançon, 
France.
(5)Department of Technology and Biotechnology of Drugs, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Jagiellonian University Medical College, Medyczna 9, Kraków 30-688, Poland.
(6)University Centre of Veterinary Medicine JU-UA, University of Agriculture in 
Krakow, 24/28 Mickiewicz St., Kraków 30-059, Poland.
(7)Department of Biopharmacy, Medical University of Lublin, ul. W. Chodzki 4a, 
Lublin 20-093, Poland.
(8)Department of Pharmacobiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, Medyczna 9, Kraków 30-688, Poland.
(9)Department of Physicochemical Drug Analysis, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Jagiellonian University Medical College, Medyczna 9, Kraków 30-688, Poland.
(10)Universidad de Alcalá. Departamento de Química Orgánica y Química 
Inorgánica, Alcalá de Henares, Madrid 28805, Spain.
(11)Instituto de Investigación Química Andrés M. del Río (IQAR), Universidad de 
Alcalá, Alcalá de Henares, Madrid 28805, Spain, Grupo DISCOBAC, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria de Castilla-La Mancha (IDISCAM).
(12)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry (IQOG, CSIC), C/ Juan de la Cierva 3, 
Madrid 28006, Spain.
(13)CIBER, ISCIII, Center for Biomedical Network Research on Rare Diseases 
(CIBERER), Madrid 28006, Spain.

At present, one of the most promising strategies to tackle the complex 
challenges posed by Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves the development of novel 
multitarget-directed ligands (MTDLs). To this end, we designed and synthesized 
nine new MTDLs using a straightforward and cost-efficient one-pot Biginelli 
three-component reaction. Among these newly developed compounds, one particular 
small molecule, named 3e has emerged as a promising MTDL. This compound 
effectively targets critical biological factors associated with AD, including 
the simultaneous inhibition of cholinesterases (ChEs), selective antagonism of 
H3 receptors, and blocking voltage-gated calcium channels. Additionally, 
compound 3e exhibited remarkable neuroprotective activity against H2O2 and 
Aβ1-40, and effectively restored cognitive function in AD mice treated with 
scopolamine in the novel object recognition task, confirming that this compound 
could provide a novel and innovative therapeutic approach for the effective 
treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00341
PMID: 39208251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. PLoS One. 2024 Aug 29;19(8):e0309530. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0309530. 
eCollection 2024.

End-of-life experiences in individuals with dementia with Lewy bodies and their 
caregivers: A mixed-methods analysis.

Wollney E(1), Sovich K(2)(3), LaBarre B(4), Maixner SM(5), Paulson HL(6), 
Manning C(7), Fields JA(8), Lunde A(9), Boeve BF(9), Galvin JE(10), Taylor 
AS(11), Li Z(4), Fechtel HJ(2)(3), Armstrong MJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Outcomes and Biomedical Informatics, University of 
Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville, Florida, United States of America.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville, Florida, United States of America.
(3)Norman Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases, Gainesville, Florida, 
United States of America.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville, Florida, United States of America.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United 
States of America.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United 
States of America.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, 
United States of America.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, 
United States of America.
(9)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, United States of 
America.
(10)Department of Neurology, Comprehensive Center for Brain Health, University 
of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, United States of America.
(11)Lewy Body Dementia Association, Lilburn, Georgia, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is one of the most common 
degenerative dementias, but research on end-of-life experiences for people with 
DLB and their caregivers is limited.
METHOD: Dyads of individuals with moderate-advanced DLB and their primary 
informal caregivers were recruited from specialty clinics, advocacy 
organizations, and research registries and followed prospectively every 6 
months. The current study examines results of caregiver study visits 3 months 
after the death of the person with DLB. These visits included the Last Month of 
Life survey, study-specific questions, and a semi-structured interview querying 
end-of-life experiences.
RESULTS: Individuals with DLB (n = 50) died 3.24 ± 1.81 years after diagnosis, 
typically of disease-related complications. Only 44% of caregivers reported a 
helpful conversation with clinicians regarding what to expect at the end of life 
in DLB. Symptoms commonly worsening prior to death included: cognition and motor 
function, ADL dependence, behavioral features, daytime sleepiness, 
communication, appetite, and weight loss. Almost 90% of participants received 
hospice care, but 20% used hospice for <1 week. Most caregivers reported overall 
positive experiences in the last month of life, but this was not universal. 
Having information about DLB and what to expect, access to support, and hospice 
care were healthcare factors associated with positive and negative end of life 
experiences. Hospice experiences were driven by communication, care 
coordination, quality care, and caregiver education.
CONCLUSION: Most caregivers of individuals who died with DLB reported positive 
end-of-life experiences. However, the study identified multiple opportunities 
for improvement relating to clinician counseling of patients/families, 
support/hospice referrals, and monitoring individuals with DLB to identify 
approaching end of life. Future research should quantitatively identify changes 
that herald end of life in DLB and develop tools that can assist clinicians in 
evaluating disease stage to better inform counseling and timely hospice 
referrals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Trial registration information: NCT04829656.

Copyright: © 2024 Wollney et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0309530
PMCID: PMC11361593
PMID: 39208192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal’s policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: EW, BL, SMM, ZL, and 
HJF report no competing interests. HLP: HLP receives funding from the NIA 
(1P30AG053760) and is the local PI of a Lewy Body Dementia Association Research 
Center of Excellence. CM: CM receives research support from ACL/DHHS 
(90ALGG0014-01-00), NIA/NIH (2SB1AG037357-04A1, R01-AG-054435), HRSA 
(U1QHP287440400) and DoD (AZ190036). She is the local PI of a Lewy Body Dementia 
Association Research Center of Excellence. JAF: JAF receives research support 
from the NIA (U01NS100620, R01AG068128, R43AG65088). AL: AL receives research 
support from the NIA (P30AG62677, R43AG65088). She is a Program Coordinator for 
the local a Lewy Body Dementia Association Coordinating Center Research Center 
of Excellence. BFB: BFB has served as an investigator for clinical trials 
sponsored by Biogen, Alector, and EIP Pharma. He serves on the Scientific 
Advisory Board of the Lewy Body Dementia Association, Association for 
Frontotemporal Degeneration, and Tau Consortium. He is the site PI of a Lewy 
Body Dementia Association Research Center of Excellence program, as well as 
coordinating center PI of the program. He receives research support from the 
NIH, the Mayo Clinic Dorothy and Harry T. Mangurian Jr. Lewy Body Dementia 
Program, and the Little Family Foundation. JEG: JEG is the creator of the QDRS 
and the LBCRS. He is supported by grants from the National Institutes of Health 
(R01 AG069765, R01 AG057681, R01 NS101483, P30 AG059295, U54 AG06354, R01 
AG056531, U01 NS100610, R01 AG056610, R01 AG054425, R01 AG068128) and the Leo 
and Anne Albert Charitable Trust. He is the local PI of the Lewy Body Dementia 
Association Research Center of Excellence at the University of Miami and serves 
on the Scientific Advisory Board of the Lewy Body Dementia Association. AST: AST 
is an employee of the Lewy Body Dementia Association. MJA: MJA receives research 
support from the NIH (R01AG068128, P30AG066506, R01NS121099, R44AG062072), the 
Florida Department of Health (grants 20A08, 24A14, 24A15), and as the local PI 
of a Lewy Body Dementia Association Research Center of Excellence. She serves on 
the DSMBs for the Alzheimer’s Therapeutic Research Institute/Alzheimer’s 
Clinical Trial Consortium and the Alzheimer’s Disease Cooperative Study. She has 
provided educational content for Medscape, Vindico CME, and Prime Inc. This does 
not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


51. Science. 2024 Aug 30;385(6712):1009-1016. doi: 10.1126/science.adp5186. Epub 
2024 Aug 29.

Aggregate-selective removal of pathological tau by clustering-activated 
degraders.

Benn J(#)(1), Cheng S(#)(1), Keeling S(1), Smith AE(1), Vaysburd MJ(2), Böken 
D(1), Miller LVC(2), Katsinelos T(1)(2), Franco C(2), Dupré E(3)(4), Danis 
C(3)(4)(5), Landrieu I(3)(4), Buée L(5), Klenerman D(1), James LC(2), McEwan 
WA(1).

Author information:
(1)UK Dementia Research Institute at the University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 
0AH, UK.
(2)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.
(3)CNRS EMR9002-BSI-Integrative Structural Biology, LabEx DISTALZ, F-59000 
Lille, France.
(4)Université Lille, Inserm, CHU Lille, Institut Pasteur de Lille, 
U1167-RID-AGE, Risk Factors and Molecular Determinants of Aging-Related 
Diseases, F-59000 Lille, France.
(5)Université Lille, Inserm, CHU Lille, Lille Neuroscience & Cognition, LabEx 
DISTALZ, F-59000 Lille, France.
(#)Contributed equally

Selective degradation of pathological protein aggregates while sparing monomeric 
forms is of major therapeutic interest. The E3 ligase tripartite 
motif-containing protein 21 (TRIM21) degrades antibody-bound proteins in an 
assembly state-specific manner due to the requirement of TRIM21 RING domain 
clustering for activation, yet effective targeting of intracellular assemblies 
remains challenging. Here, we fused the RING domain of TRIM21 to a 
target-specific nanobody to create intracellularly expressed constructs capable 
of selectively degrading assembled proteins. We evaluated this approach against 
green fluorescent protein-tagged histone 2B (H2B-GFP) and tau, a protein that 
undergoes pathological aggregation in Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative 
diseases. RING-nanobody degraders prevented or reversed tau aggregation in 
culture and in vivo, with minimal impact on monomeric tau. This approach may 
have therapeutic potential for the many disorders driven by intracellular 
protein aggregation.

DOI: 10.1126/science.adp5186
PMCID: PMC7616837
PMID: 39208111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests W.A.M and L.C.J are academic 
founders, shareholders and scientific advisors for TRIMTECH Therapeutics.


52. Gerontol Geriatr Educ. 2025 Jan-Mar;46(1):148-162. doi: 
10.1080/02701960.2024.2395276. Epub 2024 Aug 29.

Effect of older adult health and age on psychology doctoral trainees' 
expectations of clinical work with older adult clients.

Caskie GIL(1), Johnson BB(1), Root EZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Education and Human Services, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

This experimental, repeated-measures study investigated the effects of client 
health and client age on doctoral psychology students' clinical expectations for 
their work with older adult clients. Doctoral clinical and counseling psychology 
trainees (N = 223) completed measures assessing clinical expectations for three 
older adult clients of varying health status (healthy, recent Alzheimer's 
Disease (AD) diagnosis, heart disease) who all presented with depressive 
symptoms. Trainees were randomly assigned to the 71-year-old or 81-year-old 
condition. Trainees perceived a depressed client with a recent AD diagnosis as a 
less appropriate candidate for therapy, less motivated and less responsible for 
therapy, and less able to develop a therapeutic relationship. Additional 
health-based differences in prognosis, comfort, and competence were moderated by 
client age. Although age did have a small effect, the health of the older adult 
client had a stronger influence on trainees' clinical expectations for work with 
older adults. Cognitive health concerns were perceived as a greater barrier to 
clinical work with older adults than were physical health concerns. Health 
biases for clinical work with older adults could impact the quality of mental 
healthcare provided.

DOI: 10.1080/02701960.2024.2395276
PMID: 39207875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Adv Neurobiol. 2024;37:623-637. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-55529-9_35.

Emerging Microglial Therapies and Targets in Clinical Trial.

Ling Y(1), Crotti A(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Translational Medicine, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Tokyo, 
Japan.
(2)Arrakis Therapeutics, St. Waltham, MA, USA. acrotti@arrakistx.com.

Modulation of microglia function for treatment of neurodegenerative and 
neuropsychiatric disorders is an emerging field of neuroscience drug 
development. This is largely attributed to human genetic association studies 
combined with biological evidence indicating that the innate immune system acts 
as a causal contributor superimposed on the reactive component of neuronal loss 
in neurological dysfunction. The identification of disease risk gene variants 
that encode immune-modulatory proteins in microglia provides tools to evaluate 
how microglia cellular function or dysfunction affect neuronal health. The 
development of clinical stage therapeutic compounds that modify myeloid cell 
function enables us to investigate how modulating microglia function could 
become a transformational approach to mitigate neurological disorders. Improving 
our ability to boost microglia-promoting homeostatic and reparative functions 
hopefully will translate into achieving a better outcome for patients affected 
by neurological diseases. In this chapter, we aim to provide an overview of the 
microglial emerging therapies and targets being studied in current clinical 
trials.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-031-55529-9_35
PMID: 39207717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Neuropsychology. 2024 Oct;38(7):637-652. doi: 10.1037/neu0000969. Epub 2024
Aug  29.

Cognitive dispersion and its functional relevance in behavioral variant 
frontotemporal dementia and prodromal behavioral variant frontotemporal 
dementia.

Webber TA(1), Woods SP(2), Lorkiewicz SA(1), Yazbeck HW(1), Schultz ER(1), 
Kiselica AM(3).

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Care Line, Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Houston.
(3)Department of Health Psychology, University of Missouri.

OBJECTIVE: Executive dysfunction is characteristic of behavioral variant 
frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) but can be challenging to detect. 
Dispersion-based intraindividual variability (IIV-d) is hypothesized to reflect 
a sensitive index of executive dysfunction and has demonstrated relevance to 
functional decline but has not been evaluated in bvFTD.
METHOD: We report on 477 demographically matched participants (159 cognitively 
healthy [CH], 159 clinical Alzheimer's disease [AD], 159 clinical 
bvFTD/prodromal bvFTD) who completed the Uniform Data Set 3.0 Neuropsychological 
Battery. IIV-d was measured using the coefficient of variance (CoV; raw and 
demographically adjusted) across 12 Uniform Data Set 3.0 Neuropsychological 
Battery indicators and the informant-rated Functional Activities Questionnaire 
assessed daily functioning.
RESULTS: Analysis of covariance showed that participants in the bvFTD/prodromal 
bvFTD group exhibited higher raw and demographically adjusted CoV compared to CH 
participants, at a very large effect size (d = 1.28-1.47). Demographically 
adjusted (but not raw) CoV was lower in the bvFTD/prodromal bvFTD group than the 
AD group, though the effect size was small (d = .38). Both CoV metrics 
accurately differentiated the bvFTD/prodromal bvFTD and CH groups (areas under 
the curve = .84), but not bvFTD/prodromal bvFTD and AD groups (areas under the 
curve = .59). Regression analyses in the bvFTD/prodromal bvFTD group indicated 
that higher IIV-d on both metrics was associated with greater daily functioning 
impairment, over and above covariates.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to healthy adults, individuals with bvFTD/prodromal bvFTD 
show greater levels of performance variability across a battery of 
neuropsychological measures, which interferes with everyday functioning. These 
data demonstrate the clinical utility and ecological validity of IIV-d in 
bvFTD/prodromal bvFTD, though these findings should be replicated in more 
diverse samples. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000969
PMCID: PMC11449635
PMID: 39207439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. CPT Pharmacometrics Syst Pharmacol. 2024 Dec;13(12):2111-2123. doi: 
10.1002/psp4.13224. Epub 2024 Aug 29.

Population pharmacokinetics and exposure-response analyses of safety (ARIA-E and 
isolated ARIA-H) of lecanemab in subjects with early Alzheimer's disease.

Majid O(1), Cao Y(2), Willis BA(2), Hayato S(3), Takenaka O(3), Lalovic B(2), 
Sreerama Reddy SH(2), Penner N(2), Reyderman L(2), Yasuda S(3), Hussein Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Eisai Ltd., Hatfield, UK.
(2)Eisai Inc., Nutley, New Jersey, USA.
(3)Eisai Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan.

Lecanemab (Leqembi®) was recently approved by health authorities in the United 
States, Japan, and China to treat early Alzheimer's disease (AD), including 
patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or mild dementia due to 
Alzheimer's disease upon confirmation of amyloid beta pathology. Extensively and 
sparsely sampled PK profiles from 1619 AD subjects and 21,929 serum lecanemab 
observations from two phase I, one phase II, and one phase III studies were well 
characterized using a two-compartment model with first-order elimination. The 
final PK model quantified covariate effects of body weight and sex on clearance 
and central volume of distribution, ADA-positive status, and albumin on 
clearance, and of Japanese ethnicity on central and peripheral volumes of 
distribution. Exposure to lecanemab was comparable between two 
lecanemab-manufacturing processes. However, none of the identified covariates in 
the model had a clinically relevant impact on model-predicted lecanemab Cmax or 
AUC at steady state following 10 mg/kg bi-weekly. Importantly, age, a 
well-recognized risk factor for AD, was not found to significantly affect 
lecanemab PK. The incidence of ARIA-E as a function of lecanemab exposure was 
modeled using a logit function with data pooled from 2641 subjects from the 
phase II and phase III studies, in which a total of 177 incidences of ARIA-E 
were observed. The probability of ARIA-E was significantly correlated with 
model-predicted Cmax and predicted to be higher in subjects homozygous for 
APOE4. The incidence of isolated ARIA-H was not associated with lecanemab 
exposure and was similar between placebo and lecanemab-treated subjects.

© 2024 Eisa Limited. CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology 
and Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1002/psp4.13224
PMCID: PMC11646937
PMID: 39207112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: O.M. and Z.H. are employees of Eisai Ltd., 
B.A.W., Y.C., B.L., S.R., N.P., and L.R. are employees of Eisai Inc., and S.H., 
O.T., and S.Y. are employees of Eisai Co., Ltd.


56. J Integr Neurosci. 2024 Aug 12;23(8):143. doi: 10.31083/j.jin2308143.

Effects of Hypertension on Alzheimer's Disease: Updates in Pathophysiological 
and Neuroimaging Findings.

Yan SC(1), Liu L(2), Fang GL(3), Weng ST(1), Wang JJ(2), Cheng L(2), Mo YJ(2), 
Lai QL(2), Zhang YX(4), Zhang TY(5), Gai PP(6), Zhuang LY(2), Qiao S(2).

Author information:
(1)The Second Clinical Medical College, Zhejiang Chinese Medicine University, 
310053 Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Zhejiang Hospital, 310025 Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Zhejiang Chinese Medicine and Western Medicine 
Integrated Hospital, 310020 Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Second Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, 310027 Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, 310027 Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(6)Hospital of the Chinese People's Liberation Army Unit 71217, 265200 Laiyang, 
Shandong, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is recognized as the leading cause of dementia, 
imposing a significant economic toll on society. Despite the emergence of novel 
therapeutic approaches for AD, their efficacy and safety mandates further 
validation through rigorous clinical trials. In this context, hypertension (HTN) 
has garnered considerable attention as an amendable risk factor for AD. Research 
indicates that hypertension during midlife is associated with an elevated risk 
of AD in later years, influencing both the onset and progression of the disease. 
Nevertheless, the relationship between AD and hypertension in the later stages 
of life remains a subject of debate. Moreover, the consequences of blood 
pressure reduction on cognitive function, along with the optimal pharmacological 
interventions and therapeutic thresholds for hypertension, have emerged as 
pivotal areas of inquiry. This review synthesizes findings on epidemiology, 
neuroimaging, and biomarkers, and the effects of antihypertensive medications to 
elucidate the link between hypertension and cognitive performance. We 
particularly investigate how hypertension and AD are related by plasma sulfide 
dysregulation, offering possible indicators for future diagnosis and therapy.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/j.jin2308143
PMID: 39207076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


57. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2024 Aug 20;29(8):291. doi:
10.31083/j.fbl2908291.

Understanding the Mechanism of Ferroptosis in Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Ma J(1), Liu J(2), Chen S(1), Zhang W(1), Wang T(1), Cao M(1), Yang Y(1), Du 
Y(3), Cui G(4), Du Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Shandong Academy of Occupational Health and Occupational Medicine, Shandong 
First Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, 250062 Jinan, 
Shandong, China.
(2)Public Health Monitoring and Evaluation Institute of Shandong Provincial 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 250000 Jinan, Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Qinghai University, 810000 
Xining, Qinghai, China.
(4)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Children's Hospital Affiliated to 
Shandong University, 250022 Jinan, Shandong, China.

Neurodegenerative disorders are typified by the progressive degeneration and 
subsequent apoptosis of neuronal cells. They encompass a spectrum of conditions, 
including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS), Huntington's disease (HD), epilepsy, brian ischemia, 
brian injury, and neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA). Despite 
the considerable heterogeneity in their clinical presentation, 
pathophysiological underpinning and disease trajectory, a universal feature of 
these disorders is the functional deterioration of the nervous system 
concomitant with neuronal apoptosis. Ferroptosis is an iron (Fe)-dependent form 
of programmed cell death that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of these 
conditions. It is intricately associated with intracellular Fe metabolism and 
lipid homeostasis. The accumulation of Fe is observed in a variety of 
neurodegenerative diseases and has been linked to their etiology and 
progression, although its precise role in these pathologies has yet to be 
elucidated. This review aims to elucidate the characteristics and regulatory 
mechanisms of ferroptosis, its association with neurodegenerative diseases, and 
recent advances in ferroptosis-targeted therapeutic strategies. Ferroptosis may 
therefore be a critical area for future research into neurodegenerative 
diseases.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/j.fbl2908291
PMID: 39206899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


58. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Oct;20(10):7296-7319. doi: 10.1002/alz.14089. Epub
2024  Aug 29.

Parallel electrophysiological abnormalities due to COVID-19 infection and to 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementia.

Jiang Y(1)(2), Neal J(1), Sompol P(2)(3), Yener G(4)(5), Arakaki X(6), Norris 
CM(2)(3), Farina FR(7), Ibanez A(8)(9)(10), Lopez S(11), Al-Ezzi A(6), Kavcic 
V(12), Güntekin B(13)(14), Babiloni C(11)(15), Hajós M(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Aging Brain and Cognition Laboratory, Department of Behavioral Science, 
College of Medicine, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, USA.
(2)Sanders Brown Center on Aging, College of Medicine, University of Kentucky, 
Lexington, Kentucky, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Nutritional Sciences, College of Medicine, 
University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, USA.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Dept of Neurology, İzmir University of Economics, İzmir, 
Turkey.
(5)IBG: International Biomedicine and Genome Center, İzmir, Turkey.
(6)Cognition and Brain Integration Laboratory, Department of Neurosciences, 
Huntington Medical Research Institutes, Pasadena, California, USA.
(7)University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(8)BrainLat: Latin American Brain Health Institute, Universidad Adolfo Ibañez, 
Santiago, Chile.
(9)Cognitive Neuroscience Center, Universidad de San Andrés, Victoria, Buenos 
Aires, Argentina.
(10)GBHI: Global Brain Health Institute, Trinity College Dublin, The University 
of Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland.
(11)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology "V. Erspamer,", Sapienza 
University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(12)Institute of Gerontology, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, USA.
(13)Research Institute for Health Sciences and Technologies (SABITA), Istanbul 
Medipol University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(14)Department of Biophysics, School of Medicine, Istanbul Medipol University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(15)Hospital San Raffaele Cassino, Cassino, Frosinone, Italy.
(16)Cognito Therapeutics, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(17)Department of Comparative Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut, USA.

Many coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) positive individuals exhibit abnormal 
electroencephalographic (EEG) activity reflecting "brain fog" and mild cognitive 
impairments even months after the acute phase of infection. Resting-state EEG 
abnormalities include EEG slowing (reduced alpha rhythm; increased slow waves) 
and epileptiform activity. An expert panel conducted a systematic review to 
present compelling evidence that cognitive deficits due to COVID-19 and to 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementia (ADRD) are driven by overlapping 
pathologies and neurophysiological abnormalities. EEG abnormalities seen in 
COVID-19 patients resemble those observed in early stages of neurodegenerative 
diseases, particularly ADRD. It is proposed that similar EEG abnormalities in 
Long COVID and ADRD are due to parallel neuroinflammation, astrocyte reactivity, 
hypoxia, and neurovascular injury. These neurophysiological abnormalities 
underpinning cognitive decline in COVID-19 can be detected by routine EEG exams. 
Future research will explore the value of EEG monitoring of COVID-19 patients 
for predicting long-term outcomes and monitoring efficacy of therapeutic 
interventions. HIGHLIGHTS: Abnormal intrinsic electrophysiological brain 
activity, such as slowing of EEG, reduced alpha wave, and epileptiform are 
characteristic findings in COVID-19 patients. EEG abnormalities have the 
potential as neural biomarkers to identify neurological complications at the 
early stage of the disease, to assist clinical assessment, and to assess 
cognitive decline risk in Long COVID patients. Similar slowing of intrinsic 
brain activity to that of COVID-19 patients is typically seen in patients with 
mild cognitive impairments, ADRD. Evidence presented supports the idea that 
cognitive deficits in Long COVID and ADRD are driven by overlapping 
neurophysiological abnormalities resulting, at least in part, from 
neuroinflammatory mechanisms and astrocyte reactivity. Identifying common 
biological mechanisms in Long COVID-19 and ADRD can highlight critical 
pathologies underlying brain disorders and cognitive decline. It elucidates 
research questions regarding cognitive EEG and mild cognitive impairment in Long 
COVID that have not yet been adequately investigated.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14089
PMCID: PMC11485397
PMID: 39206795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting information.


59. Curr Pharm Des. 2025;31(4):320-329. doi:
10.2174/0113816128298289240723103828.

In-silico Studies and Antioxidant and Neuroprotective Assessment of 
Microencapsulated Celecoxib against Scopolamine-induced Alzheimer's Disease.

Vishnumurthy RH(1), Priya MGR(1), Tiwari P(1), Solomon VR(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Dayananda Sagar University, Bengaluru, 
Karnataka 560111, India.
(2)Medicinal Chemistry Research Laboratory, MNR College of Pharmacy, Sangareddy 
502 294, India.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an enervating and chronic 
progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Celecoxib (CXB) possesses efficacious 
antioxidants and has neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory 
properties. However, the poor bioavailability of CXB limits its therapeutic 
utility. Thus, this study aimed to evaluate the microencapsulated celecoxib MCXB 
for neuroprotection.
METHODOLOGY: CXB was screened by molecular docking study using AutoDock (version 
5.2), and the following proteins, such as 4EY7, 2HM1, 2Z5X, and 1PBQ were 
selected for predicting its neuroprotective effect. Scopolamine 20 mg/kg/day for 
approximately 7 days was administered to albino rats. Pure CXB 100 mg/kg/- day 
and 200 mg/kg/day, and MCXB 100 mg/kg/day and 200 mg/kg/day were administered, 
respectively. Further, to assess the oxidative stress, the nitric oxide (NO), 
superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and lipid peroxidation (LPO) were 
evaluated using chemical methods. The neurochemical biomarkers like AChE, 
glutamate, and dopamine were evaluated using the ELISA method. Further, the 
histopathology of brain cells was carried out to assess the neuro-regeneration 
and neurodegeneration of the neurons.
RESULTS: There was a significant binding interaction of CXB (score -6.3, -6.5, 
-5.1, -9.1) and donepezil (score- 5.5, -7.6, -7.0, and -8.6) with AchE (4EY7), 
β-secretase (2HM1, monoamine oxidase (2Z5X), and glutamate (1PBQ), respectively. 
MCXB-treated rats (100 mg/kg/day, 200 mg/kg/day) showed increased SOD levels (p 
< 0.001), whereas NO, catalase, and LPO levels were significantly (p < 0.001) 
decreased as compared to scopolamine-treated rats. Further, MCXB-treated rats 
showed a modulatory effect in the level of dopamine and AchE. However, the 
glutamate level was significantly (p < 0.001) decreased.
CONCLUSION: In addition to that, histopathological examination of the 
hippocampus part showed remarkable improvement in brain cells. So, the findings 
of the results revealed that MCXB, in a dose-dependent manner, showed a 
neuroprotective effect against scopolamine-induced AD. This effect may be 
attributed to the activation of cholinergic pathways.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113816128298289240723103828
PMID: 39206485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Curr Med Chem. 2025;32(21):4259-4283. doi:
10.2174/0109298673333159240815061359.

Exploring Novel Quinoline-1,3,4-Oxadiazole Derivatives for Alzheimer's Disease: 
Their Design, Synthesis, and In-Vitro and In-Silico Investigations.

Saffour S(1), Evren AE(1)(2), Saglik BN(1), Yurttas L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Anadolu 
University, 26470, Eskişehir, Türkiye.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Vocational School of Health Services, Bilecik Seyh 
Edebali University, Bilecik, 11000, Türkiye.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a complicated and advanced 
neurodegenerative condition accompanied by gradual cholinergic neuronal death 
and higher levels of monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) enzyme. In this study, a series 
of novel hybrid compounds combining 1,3,4-oxadiazole and quinoline moieties were 
synthesized and evaluated for their potential as inhibitors of 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), and MAO enzymes.
METHODS: The chemical structures of the synthesized compounds were confirmed 
using various analytical techniques, such as mass spectrometry, infrared 
spectroscopy (IR), proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR), and carbon and 
nuclear magnetic resonance (13C-NMR). The final products were evaluated for 
anticholinesterase potential by applying modified Ellman's spectrometric method, 
whereas a fluorometric method was used to assess MAO inhibition properties. 
In-silico studies using molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation 
(MDS) methods has been also conducted.
RESULTS: Among the synthesized compounds, 5a, 5c, and 6a demonstrated 
substantial activity against AChE, with IC50 values of 0.033 μM, 0.096 μM, and 
0.177 μM, respectively. A molecular docking study was performed to elucidate the 
binding modes and establish the structure-activity relationship (SAR) of the 
most active compounds (5a, 5c, and 6a). Molecular dynamics simulation (MDS) of 
the most potent compound, 5a, was also conducted to examine the stability of the 
interactions with the receptor. Moreover, the physicochemical properties of the 
active products were also studied.
CONCLUSION: Overall, this research contributes to the development of 
1,3,4-oxadiazole- quinoline hybrids as potential AChE inhibitors for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0109298673333159240815061359
PMID: 39206477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Front Neurol. 2024 Aug 14;15:1422681. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1422681. 
eCollection 2024.

CAPS: a simple clinical tool for β-amyloid positivity prediction in clinical 
Alzheimer syndrome.

Lahiri D(1)(2), Seixas-Lima B(1), Roncero C(1), Verhoeff NP(1), Freedman M(1), 
Al-Shamaa S(1), Chertkow H(1).

Author information:
(1)Baycrest Academy for Research and Education/Rotman Research Institute, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Neurology, Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata, Kolkata, India.

INTRODUCTION: With the advent of anti-β-amyloid therapies, clinical distinction 
between Aβ + and Aβ- in cognitive impairment is becoming increasingly important 
for stratifying referral and better utilization of biomarker assays.
METHODS: Cognitive profile, rate of decline, neuropsychiatric inventory 
questionnaire (NPI-Q), and imaging characteristics were collected from 52 
subjects with possible/probable AD.
RESULTS: Participants with Aβ+ status had lower baseline MMSE scores (24.50 vs. 
26.85, p = 0.009) and higher total NPI-Q scores (2.73 vs. 1.18, p < 0.001). 
NPI-Q score was found to be the only independent predictor for β-amyloid 
positivity (p = 0.008). A simple scoring system, namely Clinical β-Amyloid 
Positivity Prediction Score (CAPS), was developed by using the following 
parameters: NPI-Q, rapidity of cognitive decline, and white matter 
microangiopathy. Data from 48 participants were included in the analysis of 
accuracy of CAPS. CAP Score of 3 or 4 successfully classified Aβ + individuals 
in 86.7% cases.
DISCUSSION: Clinical β-Amyloid Positivity Prediction Score is a simple clinical 
tool for use in primary care and memory clinic settings to predict β-amyloid 
positivity in individuals with clinical Alzheimer Syndrome can potentially 
facilitate referral for Anti Aβ therapies.

Copyright © 2024 Lahiri, Seixas-Lima, Roncero, Verhoeff, Freedman, Al-Shamaa and 
Chertkow.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1422681
PMCID: PMC11349651
PMID: 39206291

Conflict of interest statement: HC is supported by a Chair in Cognitive 
Neurology and Innovation from the Baycrest Academy for Research and Education, 
Baycrest Health Sciences, Toronto. HC has been supported by a Foundation Grant 
from the Canadian Institutes for Health Research (CIHR), along with operating 
funds from the Weston Foundation, Weston Brain Institute, and the National 
Institute of Health (United States) [(Aging Research)—Phase II clinical trial of 
transcranial direct current stimulation in the treatment of primary progressive 
aphasia—1R01AG075111-01A1]. HC has participated as a site PI in the past 5 years 
for pharmaceutical clinical trial activities sponsored by the following 
companies: Hoffmann-La Roche Limited, TauRx, Eli Lilly Corp., Anavex Life 
Sciences, Alector LLC, Biogen MA Inc., IntelGenX Corp., and Immunocal. HC has 
participated as an unpaid advisor in 2020 for establishment of an international 
database by Biogen. HC has received honoraria for sitting on advisory boards for 
Eisai, Biogen, and Lilly Inc. in Canada. HC is scientific director (unpaid) for 
the Canadian Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA), which receives 
funding from the Canadian Institutes for Health Research, along with partner 
support from a set of partners including not for profit organizations: Brain 
Canada, Alzheimer Society of Canada, Womens Brain Health Initiative, Picov 
Family Foundation, New Brunswick Health Research Foundation, Saskatchewan Health 
Research Foundation, and Ontario Brain Institute. MF was listed on a patent 
related to methods and kits for differential diagnosis of AD vs. frontotemporal 
dementia using blood biomarkers and served on an Esai Limited Canadian National 
Advisory Board Meeting on Lecanemab for Alzheimer’s disease. The remaining 
authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial 
or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


62. Mol Ther. 2024 Oct 2;32(10):3372-3401. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2024.08.022. Epub
 2024 Aug 27.

A small TAT-TrkB peptide prevents BDNF receptor cleavage and restores synaptic 
physiology in Alzheimer's disease.

Fonseca-Gomes J(1), Costa-Coelho T(2), Ferreira-Manso M(3), Inteiro-Oliveira 
S(1), Vaz SH(1), Alemãn-Serrano N(1), Atalaia-Barbacena H(1), Ribeiro-Rodrigues 
L(1), Ramalho RM(1), Pinto R(4), Vicente Miranda H(5), Tanqueiro SR(1), de 
Almeida-Borlido C(1), Ramalho MJ(6), Miranda-Lourenço C(1), Belo RF(1), Ferreira 
CB(1), Neves V(7), Rombo DM(1), Viais R(1), Umemori J(8), Martins IC(7), 
Jerónimo-Santos A(1), Caetano A(1), Manso N(9), Mäkinen P(10), Marttinen M(11), 
Takalo M(10), Bremang M(12), Pike I(12), Haapasalo A(13), Loureiro JA(6), 
Pereira MC(6), Santos NC(7), Outeiro TF(14), Castanho MARB(7), Fernandes A(15), 
Hiltunen M(10), Duarte CB(16), Castrén E(17), de Mendonça A(9), Sebastião AM(1), 
Rodrigues TM(18), Diógenes MJ(19).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Farmacologia e Neurociências, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal; Instituto de Medicina 
Molecular João Lobo Antunes, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Lisboa, 
1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal.
(2)Instituto de Farmacologia e Neurociências, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal; Instituto de Medicina 
Molecular João Lobo Antunes, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Lisboa, 
1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal; Research Institute for Medicines (iMed.ULisboa), 
Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-003 Lisbon, Portugal.
(3)Instituto de Farmacologia e Neurociências, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal; Instituto de Medicina 
Molecular João Lobo Antunes, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Lisboa, 
1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal; Research Institute for Medicines (iMed.ULisboa), 
Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-003 Lisbon, Portugal; 
Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Medicines, Faculdade de Farmácia, 
Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-003 Lisbon, Portugal.
(4)Laboratory of Systems Integration Pharmacology, Clinical, and Regulatory 
Science, Research Institute for Medicines (iMED.ULisboa), Faculdade de Farmácia, 
Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-003 Lisbon, Portugal; Dr. Joaquim Chaves 
Laboratório de Análises Clínicas, 2790-224 Carnaxide, Portugal.
(5)iNOVA4Health, NOVA Medical School, NMS, Universidade NOVA de Lisboa, 1169-056 
Lisbon, Portugal.
(6)LEPABE - Laboratory for Process Engineering, Environment, Biotechnology, and 
Energy, Faculty of Engineering, University of Porto, 4200-465 Porto, Portugal; 
ALiCE-Associate Laboratory in Chemical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, 
University of Porto, 4200-465 Porto, Portugal.
(7)Instituto de Medicina Molecular João Lobo Antunes, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal.
(8)Gene and Cell Technology, A.I. Virtanen Institute, University of Eastern 
Finland, Neulaniementie 2, 70211 Kuopio, Finland.
(9)Instituto de Farmacologia e Neurociências, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal.
(10)Institute of Biomedicine, School of Medicine, University of Eastern Finland, 
P.O. Box 1627, 70211 Kuopio, Finland.
(11)Institute of Biomedicine, School of Medicine, University of Eastern Finland, 
P.O. Box 1627, 70211 Kuopio, Finland; Structural and Computational Biology, 
European Molecular Biology Laboratory, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(12)Proteome Sciences, Coveham House, Downside Bridge Road, KT11 3EP Cobham, UK.
(13)A.I. Virtanen Institute for Molecular Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, 70211 Kuopio, Finland.
(14)Department of Experimental Neurodegeneration, Center for Biostructural 
Imaging of Neurodegeneration, University Medical Center Göttingen, 37073 
Göttingen, Germany; Max Planck Institute for Experimental Medicine, 37075 
Göttingen, Germany; Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Faculty of 
Medical Sciences, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU, UK; German 
Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), 37075 Göttingen, Germany.
(15)Research Institute for Medicines (iMed.ULisboa), Faculdade de Farmácia, 
Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-003 Lisbon, Portugal; Department of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences and Medicines, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-003 
Lisbon, Portugal.
(16)CNC - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology and Department of Life 
Sciences, University of Coimbra, 3004-504 Coimbra, Portugal.
(17)Neuroscience Center, University of Helsinki, 00014 Helsinki, Finland.
(18)Instituto de Farmacologia e Neurociências, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal; Instituto de Medicina 
Molecular João Lobo Antunes, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Lisboa, 
1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal. Electronic address: tiago.rodrigues@iob.ch.
(19)Instituto de Farmacologia e Neurociências, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de Lisboa, 1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal; Instituto de Medicina 
Molecular João Lobo Antunes, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Lisboa, 
1649-028 Lisbon, Portugal. Electronic address: diogenes@medicina.ulisboa.pt.

Erratum in
    Mol Ther. 2025 Jan 8;33(1):421. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2024.12.005.

In Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyloid β (Aβ)-triggered cleavage of TrkB-FL 
impairs brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling, thereby compromising 
neuronal survival, differentiation, and synaptic transmission and plasticity. 
Using cerebrospinal fluid and postmortem human brain samples, we show that 
TrkB-FL cleavage occurs from the early stages of the disease and increases as a 
function of pathology severity. To explore the therapeutic potential of this 
disease mechanism, we designed small TAT-fused peptides and screened their 
ability to prevent TrkB-FL receptor cleavage. Among these, a TAT-TrkB peptide 
with a lysine-lysine linker prevented TrkB-FL cleavage both in vitro and in vivo 
and rescued synaptic deficits induced by oligomeric Aβ in hippocampal slices. 
Furthermore, this TAT-TrkB peptide improved the cognitive performance, 
ameliorated synaptic plasticity deficits and prevented Tau pathology progression 
in vivo in the 5XFAD mouse model of AD. No evidence of liver or kidney toxicity 
was found. We provide proof-of-concept evidence for the efficacy and safety of 
this therapeutic strategy and anticipate that this TAT-TrkB peptide has the 
potential to be a disease-modifying drug that can prevent and/or reverse 
cognitive deficits in patients with AD.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2024.08.022
PMCID: PMC11489560
PMID: 39205389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests J.F.-G., M.J.D., 
A.J.-S., C.B.D., and A.M.S. are authors of a patent (application no. 
PCT/PT2021/050011; priority date: April 1, 2020) concerning the prevention of 
TrkB-FL cleavage as a therapeutic strategy.


63. Sensors (Basel). 2024 Aug 11;24(16):5192. doi: 10.3390/s24165192.

Feature-Based Classification of Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer's 
Disease Based on Optical Coherence Tomographic Angiographic Image.

Visitsattapongse S(1), Maneerat A(1), Trinavarat A(2), Rattanabannakit C(3), 
Morkphrom E(3), Senanarong V(3), Srinonprasert V(3), Songsaeng D(4), 
Atchaneeyasakul LO(2), Pintavirooj C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Engineering, King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang, 
Bangkok 10520, Thailand.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand.
(3)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand.
(4)Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand.

Alzheimer's disease is a type of neurodegenerative disorder that is 
characterized by the progressive degeneration of brain cells, leading to 
cognitive decline and memory loss. It is the most common cause of dementia and 
affects millions of people worldwide. While there is currently no cure for 
Alzheimer's disease, early detection and treatment can help to slow the 
progression of symptoms and improve quality of life. This research presents a 
diagnostic tool for classifying mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's 
diseases using feature-based machine learning applied to optical coherence 
tomographic angiography images (OCT-A). Several features are extracted from the 
OCT-A image, including vessel density in five sectors, the area of the foveal 
avascular zone, retinal thickness, and novel features based on the histogram of 
the range-filtered OCT-A image. To ensure effectiveness for a diverse 
population, a large local database for our study was collected. The promising 
results of our study, with the best accuracy of 92.17,% will provide an 
efficient diagnostic tool for early detection of Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.3390/s24165192
PMCID: PMC11359009
PMID: 39204887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


64. Pharmaceutics. 2024 Jul 26;16(8):991. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics16080991.

Computational and ADMET Predictions of Novel Compounds as Dual Inhibitors of 
BuChE and GSK-3β to Combat Alzheimer's Disease.

Londhe SG(1), Walhekar V(1), Shenoy M(2), Kini SG(2), Scotti MT(3), Scotti 
L(3)(4), Kumar D(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, BVDU's Poona College of Pharmacy, 
Pune 411038, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal 576104, India.
(3)Health Sci. Center, Federal University of Paraíba, João Pessoa 50670-910, PB, 
Brazil.
(4)Teaching and Research Management-University Hospital, Federal University of 
Paraíba, Campus I, João Pessoa 58051-900, PB, Brazil.
(5)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, One Shields Ave, 
Davis, CA 95616, USA.
(6)UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Centre, University of California, Davis, One 
Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616, USA.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease is a serious and widespread neurodegenerative 
illness in the modern healthcare scenario. GSK-3β and BuChE are prominent 
enzymatic targets associated with Alzheimer's disease. Co-targeting GSK3β and 
BChE in Alzheimer's disease helps to modify disease progression and enhance 
cognitive function by addressing both tau pathology and cholinergic deficits. 
However, the treatment arsenal for Alzheimer's disease is extremely inadequate, 
with present medications displaying dismal success in treating this never-ending 
ailment. To create novel dual inhibitors, we have used molecular docking and 
dynamics analysis. Our focus was on analogs formed from the fusion of tacrine 
and amantadine ureido, specifically tailored to target GSK-3β and BuChE.
METHODS: In the following study, molecular docking was executed by employing 
AutoDock Vina and molecular dynamics and ADMET predictions were performed using 
the Desmond and Qikprop modules of Schrödinger.
RESULTS: Our findings unveiled that compounds DKS1 and DKS4 exhibited 
extraordinary molecular interactions within the active domains of GSK-3β and 
BuChE, respectively. These compounds engaged in highly favorable interactions 
with critical amino acids, including Lys85, Val135, Asp133, and Asp200, and 
His438, Ser198, and Thr120, yielding encouraging docking energies of -9.6 and 
-12.3 kcal/mol. Additionally, through extensive molecular dynamics simulations 
spanning a 100 ns trajectory, we established the robust stability of ligands 
DKS1 and DKS4 within the active pockets of GSK-3β and AChE. Particularly 
noteworthy was DKS5, which exhibited an outstanding human oral absorption rate 
of 79.792%, transcending the absorption rates observed for other molecules in 
our study.
CONCLUSION: In summary, our in silico findings have illuminated the potential of 
our meticulously designed molecules as groundbreaking agents in the fight 
against Alzheimer's disease, capable of simultaneously inhibiting both GSK-3β 
and BuChE.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics16080991
PMCID: PMC11357659
PMID: 39204336

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


65. Pharmaceutics. 2024 Jul 25;16(8):982. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics16080982.

Stepwise Structural Simplification of the Dihydroxyanthraquinone Moiety of a 
Multitarget Rhein-Based Anti-Alzheimer Lead to Improve Drug Metabolism and 
Pharmacokinetic Properties.

Pont C(1), Sampietro A(1)(2), Pérez-Areales FJ(1)(2), Cristiano N(1), Albalat 
A(1), Pérez B(3), Bartolini M(4), De Simone A(5), Andrisano V(6), Barenys 
M(7)(8), Teixidó E(7)(9), Sabaté R(10), Loza MI(11), Brea J(11), Muñoz-Torrero 
D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry (CSIC Associated Unit), Faculty of Pharmacy 
and Food Sciences, University of Barcelona, Av. Joan XXIII 27-31, E-08028 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Institute of Biomedicine of the University of Barcelona (IBUB), E-08028 
Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Toxicology, Autonomous 
University of Barcelona, E-08193 Bellaterra, Spain.
(4)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, University of Bologna, Via 
Belmeloro, 6, I-40126 Bologna, Italy.
(5)Department of Drug Science and Technology, University of Turin, I-10125 
Torino, Italy.
(6)Department for Life Quality Studies, Alma Mater Studiorum University of 
Bologna, Corso d'Augusto 237, I-47921 Rimini, Italy.
(7)Toxicology Unit, Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutic 
Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy and Food Sciences, University of Barcelona, Av. 
Joan XXIII 27-31, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain.
(8)German Centre for the Protection of Laboratory Animals (Bf3R), German Federal 
Institute for Risk Assessment (BfR), 10589 Berlin, Germany.
(9)Institute of Nutrition and Food Safety of the University of Barcelona 
(INSA-UB), E-08921 Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Spain.
(10)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Technology and Physical-Chemistry, 
Faculty of Pharmacy and Food Sciences, University of Barcelona, Av. Joan XXIII 
27-31, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain.
(11)BioFarma Research Group, Centro Singular de Investigación en Medicina 
Molecular y Enfermedades Crónicas (CIMUS), Departamento de Farmacología, 
Farmacia y Tecnología Farmacéutica, Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, Av. 
de Barcelona s/n, E-15782 Santiago de Compostela, Spain.

Multitarget compounds have emerged as promising drug candidates to cope with 
complex multifactorial diseases, like Alzheimer's disease (AD). Most multitarget 
compounds are designed by linking two pharmacophores through a tether chain 
(linked hybrids), which results in rather large molecules that are particularly 
useful to hit targets with large binding cavities, but at the expense of 
suffering from suboptimal physicochemical/pharmacokinetic properties. Molecular 
size reduction by removal of superfluous structural elements while retaining the 
key pharmacophoric motifs may represent a compromise solution to achieve both 
multitargeting and favorable physicochemical/PK properties. Here, we report the 
stepwise structural simplification of the dihydroxyanthraquinone moiety of a 
rhein-huprine hybrid lead by hydroxy group removal-ring contraction-ring 
opening-ring removal, which has led to new analogs that retain or surpass the 
potency of the lead on its multiple AD targets while exhibiting more favorable 
drug metabolism and pharmacokinetic (DMPK) properties and safety profile. In 
particular, the most simplified acetophenone analog displays dual nanomolar 
inhibition of human acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase (IC50 = 6 nM 
and 13 nM, respectively), moderately potent inhibition of human BACE-1 (48% 
inhibition at 15 µM) and Aβ42 and tau aggregation (73% and 68% inhibition, 
respectively, at 10 µM), favorable in vitro brain permeation, higher aqueous 
solubility (18 µM) and plasma stability (100/96/86% remaining in human/mouse/rat 
plasma after 6 h incubation), and lower acute toxicity in a model organism 
(zebrafish embryos; LC50 >> 100 µM) than the initial lead, thereby confirming 
the successful lead optimization by structural simplification.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics16080982
PMCID: PMC11359831
PMID: 39204327

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


66. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2024 Aug 7;17(8):1039. doi: 10.3390/ph17081039.

Anthocyanin-Rich Fraction of Black Rice Bran Extract Protects against Amyloid 
β-Induced Oxidative Stress, Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress, and Neuronal Apoptosis 
in SK-N-SH Cells.

Sivasinprasasn S(1)(2), Tocharus J(3), Mahatheeranont S(4)(5), Nakrat S(4)(5), 
Tocharus C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai 
50200, Thailand.
(2)Office of Research Administration, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai 50200, 
Thailand.
(3)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University, Chiang 
Mai 50200, Thailand.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Chiang Mai University, Chiang 
Mai 50200, Thailand.
(5)Center of Excellence for Innovation in Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Chiang 
Mai University, Chiang Mai 50200, Thailand.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder in the 
aging population. An accumulation of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles 
causes degeneration of neurons, leading to neuronal cell death. The 
anthocyanin-rich fraction of black rice (Oryza sativa L. variety "Luem Pua") 
bran (AFBRB), extracted using a solution of ethanol and water and fractionated 
using Amberlite XAD7HP column chromatography, contains a high anthocyanin 
content (585 mg of cyanidin-3-O-glucoside and 24 mg of peonidin-3-O-glucoside 
per gram of the rich extract), which has been found to reduce neurodegeneration. 
This study focused on the neuroprotective effects of AFBRB in Aβ25-35-induced 
toxicity in the human neuroblastoma cell line (SK-N-SH). SK-N-SH was exposed to 
Aβ25-35 (10 µM) to induce an AD cell model in vitro. Pretreatment with AFBRB 
(0.1, 1, or 10 µg/mL) or C3G (20 µM) was conducted for 2 h prior to the 
treatment with Aβ25-35 (10 µM) for an additional 24 h. The results indicate that 
AFBRB can protect against the cytotoxic effect of Aβ25-35 through attenuation of 
intracellular ROS production, downregulation of the expression of the proteins 
Bax, cytochrome c, cleaved caspase-9, and cleaved caspase-3, upregulation of the 
expression of Bcl-2 in the mitochondrial death pathway, and reduction in the 
expression of the three major markers of ER stress pathways in similar ways. 
Interestingly, we found that pretreatment with AFBRB significantly alleviated 
Aβ-induced oxidative stress, ER stress, and apoptosis in SK-N-SH cells. This 
suggests that AFBRB might be a potential therapeutic agent in preventing 
neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ph17081039
PMCID: PMC11357448
PMID: 39204144

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


67. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2024 Jul 30;17(8):1005. doi: 10.3390/ph17081005.

Tetramethylpyrazine Nitrone (TBN) Reduces Amyloid β Deposition in Alzheimer's 
Disease Models by Modulating APP Expression, BACE1 Activity, and Autophagy 
Pathways.

Zhou X(1), Zhu Z(2), Kuang S(1), Huang K(1), Li Y(1), Wang Y(2)(3)(4), Chen 
H(5), Hoi MPM(6), Xu B(7), Yang X(7), Zhang Z(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Guangzhou Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, Guangzhou Eighth 
People's Hospital, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou 510440, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, 
Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Innovative Chemical Drug Research in 
Cardio-Cerebrovascular Diseases, Institute of New Drug Research, Jinan 
University, Guangzhou 511436, China.
(3)Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Joint Laboratory for Pharmacodynamic Constituents 
of TCM and New Drugs Research, Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of 
Pharmacodynamic Constituents of TCM and New Drugs Research, Jinan University 
College of Pharmacy, Guangzhou 511436, China.
(4)International Cooperative Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Modernization and Innovative Drug Development of Chinese Ministry of Education 
(MOE), Jinan University College of Pharmacy, Guangzhou 511436, China.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou 510006, 
China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinse Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Macau, China.
(7)Key Laboratory of Modern Toxicology of Shenzhen, Shenzhen Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Shenzhen 518055, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with age. A 
wealth of evidence indicates that the amyloid β (Aβ) aggregates result from 
dyshomeostasis between Aβ production and clearance, which plays a pivotal role 
in the pathogenesis of AD. Consequently, therapies targeting Aβ reduction 
represent a promising strategy for AD intervention. Tetramethylpyrazine nitrone 
(TBN) is a novel tetramethylpyrazine derivative with potential for the treatment 
of AD. Previously, we demonstrated that TBN markedly enhanced cognitive 
functions and decreased the levels of Aβ, APP, BACE 1, and hyperphosphorylated 
tau in 3×Tg-AD mice. However, the mechanism by which TBN inhibits Aβ deposition 
is still unclear. In this study, we employed APP/PS1 mice treated with TBN (60 
mg/kg, ig, bid) for six months, and N2a/APP695swe cells treated with TBN (300 
μM) to explore the mechanism of TBN in Aβ reduction. Our results indicate that 
TBN significantly alleviated cognitive impairment and reduced Aβ deposition in 
APP/PS1 mice. Further investigation of the underlying mechanisms revealed that 
TBN decreased the expression of APP and BACE1, activated the AMPK/mTOR/ULK1 
autophagy pathway, inhibited the PI3K/AKT/mTOR/ULK1 autophagy pathway, and 
decreased the phosphorylation levels of JNK and ERK in APP/PS1 mice. Moreover, 
TBN was found to significantly reduce the mRNA levels of APP and BACE1, as well 
as those of SP1, CTCF, TGF-β, and NF-κB, transcription factors involved in 
regulating gene expression. Additionally, TBN was observed to decrease the level 
of miR-346 and increase the levels of miR-147 and miR-106a in the N2a/APP695swe 
cells. These findings indicate that TBN may reduce Aβ levels likely by reducing 
APP expression by regulating APP gene transcriptional factors and miRNAs, 
reducing BACE1 expression, and promoting autophagy activities.

DOI: 10.3390/ph17081005
PMCID: PMC11357250
PMID: 39204110

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as potential conflicts of interest.


68. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2024 Jul 28;17(8):997. doi: 10.3390/ph17080997.

Positive Allosteric Modulators of Trk Receptors for the Treatment of Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Forsell P(1)(2), Parrado Fernández C(1)(2), Nilsson B(1), Sandin J(1)(2), 
Nordvall G(1)(2), Segerdahl M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)AlzeCure Pharma AB, Hälsovägen 7, 141 57 Huddinge, Sweden.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, 
Alfred Nobels allé 23, 141 52 Huddinge, Sweden.

Neurotrophins are important regulators of neuronal and non-neuronal functions. 
As such, the neurotrophins and their receptors, the tropomyosin receptor kinase 
(Trk) family of receptor tyrosine kinases, has attracted intense research 
interest and their role in multiple diseases including Alzheimer's disease has 
been described. Attempts to administer neurotrophins to patients have been 
reported, but the clinical trials have so far have been hampered by side effects 
or a lack of clear efficacy. Thus, much of the focus during recent years has 
been on identifying small molecules acting as agonists or positive allosteric 
modulators (PAMs) of Trk receptors. Two examples of successful discovery and 
development of PAMs are the TrkA-PAM E2511 and the pan-Trk PAM ACD856. E2511 has 
been reported to have disease-modifying effects in preclinical models, whereas 
ACD856 demonstrates both a symptomatic and a disease-modifying effect in 
preclinical models. Both molecules have reached the stage of clinical 
development and were reported to be safe and well tolerated in clinical phase 1 
studies, albeit with different pharmacokinetic profiles. These two emerging 
small molecules are interesting examples of possible novel symptomatic and 
disease-modifying treatments that could complement the existing anti-amyloid 
monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. This review aims 
to present the concept of positive allosteric modulators of the Trk receptors as 
a novel future treatment option for Alzheimer's disease and other 
neurodegenerative and cognitive disorders, and the current preclinical and 
clinical data supporting this new concept. Preclinical data indicate dual 
mechanisms, not only as cognitive enhancers, but also a tentative 
neurorestorative function.

DOI: 10.3390/ph17080997
PMCID: PMC11357672
PMID: 39204102

Conflict of interest statement: All authors were employed by AlzeCure Pharma AB 
at the time of writing the article.


69. Nutrients. 2024 Aug 20;16(16):2774. doi: 10.3390/nu16162774.

Non-Linear Association of Dietary Polyamines with the Risk of Incident Dementia: 
Results from Population-Based Cohort of the UK Biobank.

Qian M(1), Zhang N(1), Zhang R(2), Liu M(3), Wu Y(1), Lu Y(4), Li F(5), Zheng 
L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 
No. 280 South Chongqing Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai 200025, China.
(2)College of Public Health, Shanghai University of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, No. 279 Zhouzhu Road, Pudong New District, Shanghai 201318, China.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, China Medical 
University, No. 77 Puhe Road, Shenyang 110122, China.
(4)Department of Physical and Chemical, Changning District Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Shanghai 200051, China.
(5)School of Public Health and Emergency Management, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, No. 1088 Xueyuan Avenue, Nanshan District, Shenzhen 
518055, China.

Natural polyamines, including spermidine (SPD), spermine (SPM) and putrescine 
(PUT), are evolutionarily conserved endogenous molecules crucially involved in 
central cellular processes. Their physiological importance may extend to the 
maintenance of cognitive function during aging. However, limited 
population-based epidemiological studies have explored the link between dietary 
polyamines and dementia risk. This study was a prospective analysis of 77,092 UK 
Biobank participants aged ≥ 60 years without dementia at baseline. We used Cox 
proportional hazard regression models to explore the associations between 
dietary polyamines and the risk of dementia, and restricted cubic splines to 
test the non-linear relationships. During a median follow-up of 12 years, 1087 
incidents of all-cause dementia cases occurred, including 450 Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) cases and 206 vascular dementia (VD) cases. The fully adjusted 
hazard ratios (HRs) for the upper fourth quintile of dietary SPD, in comparison 
with the lowest quintile of intake, were 0.68 (95% confidence interval [95% CI]: 
0.66-0.83) for the risk of all-cause dementia, 0.62 (95% CI: 0.45-0.85) for AD 
and 0.56 (95% CI: 0.36-0.88) for VD, respectively. A 26% reduction in dementia 
risk [HR: 0.74, (95% CI: 0.61-0.89)] and a 47% reduction in AD [HR: 0.53, 
(95%CI: 0.39-0.72)] were observed comparing the third with the lowest quintiles 
of dietary SPM. Dietary PUT was only associated with a reduced risk of all-cause 
dementia in the fourth quintile [HR (95% CI): 0.82 (0.68-0.99)]. Reduced risk 
was not found to be significant across all quintiles. There were 'U'-shaped 
relationships found between dietary polyamines and all-cause dementia, AD and 
VD. Stratification by genetic predisposition showed no significant effect 
modification. Optimal intake of polyamines was linked to a decreased risk of 
dementia, with no modification by genetic risk. This potentially suggests 
cognitive benefits of dietary natural polyamines in humans.

DOI: 10.3390/nu16162774
PMCID: PMC11357304
PMID: 39203912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have completed the ICMJE uniform 
disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (accessed on 13 August 2024 
available on request from the corresponding author) and declare that they have 
received no support from any organization for the submitted work, have no 
financial relationships with any organizations that might have an interest in 
the submitted work in the previous three years and have been involved in no 
other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the 
submitted work.


70. Molecules. 2024 Aug 20;29(16):3922. doi: 10.3390/molecules29163922.

Caveolae with GLP-1 and NMDA Receptors as Crossfire Points for the Innovative 
Treatment of Cognitive Dysfunction Associated with Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Nakashima M(1), Suga N(1), Yoshikawa S(1), Matsuda S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Nara Women's University, Kita-Uoya 
Nishimachi, Nara 630-8506, Japan.

Some neurodegenerative diseases may be characterized by continuing behavioral 
and cognitive dysfunction that encompasses memory loss and/or apathy. 
Alzheimer's disease is the most typical type of such neurodegenerative diseases 
that are characterized by deficits of cognition and alterations of behavior. 
Despite the huge efforts against Alzheimer's disease, there has yet been no 
successful treatment for this disease. Interestingly, several possible risk 
genes for cognitive dysfunction are frequently expressed within brain cells, 
which may also be linked to cholesterol metabolism, lipid transport, exosomes, 
and/or caveolae formation, suggesting that caveolae may be a therapeutic target 
for cognitive dysfunctions. Interestingly, the modulation of autophagy/mitophagy 
with the alteration of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and N-methyl-d-aspartate 
(NMDA) receptor signaling may offer a novel approach to preventing and 
alleviating cognitive dysfunction. A paradigm showing that both GLP-1 and NMDA 
receptors at caveolae sites may be promising and crucial targets for the 
treatment of cognitive dysfunctions has been presented here, which may also be 
able to modify the progression of Alzheimer's disease. This research direction 
may create the potential to move clinical care toward disease-modifying 
treatment strategies with maximal benefits for patients without detrimental 
adverse events for neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules29163922
PMCID: PMC11357136
PMID: 39203005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


71. Molecules. 2024 Aug 8;29(16):3763. doi: 10.3390/molecules29163763.

Trolox, Ferulic, Sinapic, and Cinnamic Acid Derivatives of Proline and GABA with 
Antioxidant and/or Anti-Inflammatory Properties.

Papagiouvannis G(1), Theodosis-Nobelos P(1), Rekka EA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, Frederick University, 
Nicosia 1036, Cyprus.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, Aristotle 
University of Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.

Degenerative conditions, such as neurodegenerative disorders (Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD)) and cardiovascular diseases, are 
complex, multifactorial disorders whose pathophysiology has not been fully 
elucidated yet. As a result, the available treatment options cannot eliminate 
these diseases radically, but only alleviate the symptoms. Both inflammatory 
processes and oxidation are key factors in the development and evolution of 
neurodegeneration, while acetylcholinesterase inhibitors are the most used 
therapeutic options against AD. In this work, following the multi-targeting 
compound approach, we designed and synthesized a series of proline and 
gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) amides with various acidic moieties that possess 
an antioxidant and/or anti-inflammatory potency. Proline is the pharmacophore of 
nootropic drugs (e.g., piracetam) used for memory improvement, while GABA is the 
main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. The designed 
molecules were subjected to a preliminary screening of their bioactivity in 
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory assays, as well as against 
acetylcholinesterase. Most of the synthesized compounds could inhibit lipid 
peroxidation (IC50 as low as 8 μΜ) and oxidative protein glycation (inhibition 
of up to 48%) and reduce the 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl free radical (DPPH). 
In addition, all of the compounds were moderate inhibitors of lipoxygenase (LOX) 
(up to 46% at 100 μΜ) and could decrease carrageenan-induced paw edema in rats 
by up to 55%. Finally, some of the compounds were moderate acetylcholinesterase 
inhibitors (IC50 as low as 219 μΜ). The results confirmed the design rationale, 
indicating that the compounds could be further optimized as multi-targeting 
molecules directed against degenerative conditions.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules29163763
PMCID: PMC11356873
PMID: 39202843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts of interest are declared by the 
authors.


72. Genes (Basel). 2024 Aug 5;15(8):1027. doi: 10.3390/genes15081027.

Identification of Autophagy-Related Biomarkers and Diagnostic Model in 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Xu W(1), Su X(1), Qin J(1), Jin Y(1), Zhang N(1), Huang S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Advanced Materials Engineering, Jiaxing Nanhu University, Jiaxing 
314001, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease. Its 
accurate pathogenic mechanisms are incompletely clarified, and effective 
therapeutic treatments are still inadequate. Autophagy is closely associated 
with AD and plays multiple roles in eliminating harmful aggregated proteins and 
maintaining cell homeostasis. This study identified 1191 differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) based on the GSE5281 dataset from the GEO database, 
intersected them with 325 autophagy-related genes from GeneCards, and screened 
26 differentially expressed autophagy-related genes (DEAGs). Subsequently, GO 
and KEGG enrichment analysis was performed and indicated that these DEAGs were 
primarily involved in autophagy-lysosomal biological process. Further, eight hub 
genes were determined by PPI construction, and experimental validation was 
performed by qRT-PCR on a SH-SY5Y cell model. Finally, three hub genes (TFEB, 
TOMM20, GABARAPL1) were confirmed to have potential application for biomarkers. 
A multigenic prediction model with good predictability (AUC = 0.871) was 
constructed in GSE5281 and validated in the GSE132903 dataset. Hub gene-targeted 
miRNAs closely associated with AD were also retrieved through the miRDB and HDMM 
database, predicting potential therapeutic agents for AD. This study provides 
new insights into autophagy-related genes in brain tissues of AD patients and 
offers more candidate biomarkers for AD mechanistic research as well as clinical 
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.3390/genes15081027
PMCID: PMC11354206
PMID: 39202387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


73. Diagnostics (Basel). 2024 Aug 15;14(16):1781. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics14161781.

Cardiovascular and Neurological Diseases and Association with Helicobacter 
Pylori Infection-An Overview.

Pădureanu V(1), Dop D(2), Caragea DC(3), Rădulescu D(4), Pădureanu R(1), 
Forțofoiu MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Medicine and Pharmacy Craiova, 
200349 Craiova, Romania.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of Medicine and Pharmacy Craiova, 200349 
Craiova, Romania.
(3)Department of Nephrology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy Craiova, 200349 
Craiova, Romania.
(4)Department of Surgery, University of Medicine and Pharmacy Craiova, 200349 
Craiova, Romania.

This article investigates the link between Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) 
infection and cardiovascular and neurological disorders. Recent research 
suggests that H. pylori may play a role in cardiovascular diseases like 
atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, and stroke, as well as neurological 
diseases including Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson's 
disease. Cardiovascular Diseases: H. pylori induces endothelial dysfunction and 
chronic inflammation, promoting atherosclerotic plaque formation and other 
cardiac complications. High infection prevalence in cardiovascular patients 
implies that systemic inflammation from H. pylori accelerates disease 
progression. Eradication therapies combined with anti-inflammatory and 
lipid-lowering treatments may reduce cardiovascular risk. Neurological Diseases: 
H. pylori may contribute to Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson's 
through systemic inflammation, neuroinflammation, and autoimmune responses. 
Increased infection prevalence in these patients suggests bacterial involvement 
in disease pathogenesis. The eradication of H. pylori could reduce 
neuroinflammation and improve outcomes. Discussions and Future Research: 
Managing H. pylori infection in clinical practice could impact public health and 
treatment approaches. Further research is needed to clarify these relationships. 
Longitudinal and mechanistic studies are essential to fully understand H. 
pylori's role in these conditions. Conclusions: H. pylori infection is a 
potential risk factor for various cardiovascular and neurological conditions. 
Additional research is critical for developing effective prevention and 
treatment strategies. Targeted therapies, including H. pylori eradication 
combined with anti-inflammatory treatments, could improve clinical outcomes. 
These findings highlight the need for an integrated clinical approach to include 
H. pylori evaluation and treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics14161781
PMCID: PMC11353373
PMID: 39202269

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


74. Diagnostics (Basel). 2024 Aug 13;14(16):1759. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics14161759.

Early Alzheimer's Disease Detection: A Review of Machine Learning Techniques for 
Forecasting Transition from Mild Cognitive Impairment.

Singh SG(1), Das D(1), Barman U(1), Saikia MJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Computer Technology, Assam down town University, Guwahati 781026, 
Assam, India.
(2)Biomedical Sensors and Systems Lab, University of North Florida, 
Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.
(3)Department of Electrical Engineering, University of North Florida, 
Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.

Alzheimer's disease is a weakening neurodegenerative condition with profound 
cognitive implications, making early and accurate detection crucial for 
effective treatment. In recent years, machine learning, particularly deep 
learning, has shown significant promise in detecting mild cognitive impairment 
to Alzheimer's disease conversion. This review synthesizes research on machine 
learning approaches for predicting conversion from mild cognitive impairment to 
Alzheimer's disease dementia using magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission 
tomography, and other biomarkers. Various techniques used in literature such as 
machine learning, deep learning, and transfer learning were examined in this 
study. Additionally, data modalities and feature extraction methods analyzed by 
different researchers are discussed. This review provides a comprehensive 
overview of the current state of research in Alzheimer's disease detection and 
highlights future research directions.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics14161759
PMCID: PMC11353639
PMID: 39202248

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


75. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 22;25(16):9104. doi: 10.3390/ijms25169104.

Evaluation of the Ameliorative Potential of 
3,5-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-1,3,5-thiadiazinane-2-thione against Scopolamine-Induced 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Shagufta(1), Ali G(1), Khan A(2), Rasheed A(1), Deeba F(1), Ullah R(3), Shahid 
M(4), Ali H(5), Khan R(5), Shamezai N(1), Sharif N(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Peshawar, Peshawar 25120, Pakistan.
(2)DHQ Teaching Hospital Timergara, Lower Dir, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK), 
Timergara 18300, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Sarhad University of Science and Information 
Technology, Peshawar 25000, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, CECOS University of IT and Emerging Sciences, 
Peshawar 25000, Pakistan.
(5)Institute of Chemical Sciences, University of Peshawar, Peshawar 25120, 
Pakistan.
(6)Institute of Pathology and Diagnostic Medicine, Khyber Medical University 
Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK), Peshawar 25100, Pakistan.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder, marked 
by cognitive impairment. Currently, the available treatment provides only 
symptomatic relief and there is a great need to design and formulate new drugs 
to stabilize AD. In the search for a new anti-Alzheimer's drug, 
3,5-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-1,3,5-thiadiazinane-2-thione (THTT), a 
tetrahydro-2H-1,3,5-thiadiazine-2-thione derivative, was investigated against a 
scopolamine-induced Alzheimer's model. The selected test compound was 
administered intraperitoneally in three doses (15 mg/kg, 30 mg/kg, and 45 
mg/kg). The test compound exhibited an IC50 value of 69.41 µg/mL, indicating its 
ability to inhibit the acetylcholinesterase enzyme. An antioxidant DPPH assay 
revealed that the IC50 value of the test compound was 97.75 µg/mL, which shows 
that the test compound possesses antioxidant activity. The results of behavior 
tests including the Y-maze and elevated plus maze (EPM) show that the test 
compound improved short-term memory and spatial memory, respectively. 
Furthermore, in the Morris water maze (MWM) and light/dark model, the test 
compound shows improvements in learning and memory. Moreover, the results of 
histological studies show that the test compound can protect the brain against 
the harmful effects of scopolamine. Overall, the findings of our investigation 
suggest that our chosen test compound has disease-modifying and neuroprotective 
activities against the scopolamine-induced Alzheimer's model. The test compound 
may be beneficial, subject to further elaborate investigation for anti-amyloid 
disease-modifying properties in AD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25169104
PMCID: PMC11354520
PMID: 39201791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest.


76. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 22;25(16):9092. doi: 10.3390/ijms25169092.

Inhibition of Calcineurin with FK506 Reduces Tau Levels and Attenuates Synaptic 
Impairment Driven by Tau Oligomers in the Hippocampus of Male Mouse Models.

Marcatti M(1), Tumurbaatar B(1), Borghi M(1), Guptarak J(1), Zhang WR(1), 
Krishnan B(1), Kayed R(1), Fracassi A(1), Taglialatela G(1).

Author information:
(1)Mitchell Center for Neurodegenerative Disease, Department of Neurology, The 
University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, Galveston, TX 77550, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common age-associated neurodegenerative 
disorder, characterized by progressive cognitive decline, memory impairment, and 
structural brain changes, primarily involving Aβ plaques and neurofibrillary 
tangles of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. Recent research highlights the 
significance of smaller Aβ and Tau oligomeric aggregates (AβO and TauO, 
respectively) in synaptic dysfunction and disease progression. Calcineurin 
(CaN), a key calcium/calmodulin-dependent player in regulating synaptic function 
in the central nervous system (CNS) is implicated in mediating detrimental 
effects of AβO on synapses and memory function in AD. This study aims to 
investigate the specific impact of CaN on both exogenous and endogenous TauO 
through the acute and chronic inhibition of CaN. We previously demonstrated the 
protective effect against AD of the immunosuppressant CaN inhibitor, FK506, but 
its influence on TauO remains unclear. In this study, we explored the short-term 
effects of acute CaN inhibition on TauO phosphorylation and TauO-induced memory 
deficits and synaptic dysfunction. Mice received FK506 post-TauO 
intracerebroventricular injection and TauO levels and phosphorylation were 
assessed, examining their impact on CaN and GSK-3β. The study investigated FK506 
preventive/reversal effects on TauO-induced clustering of CaN and GSK-3β. Memory 
and synaptic function in TauO-injected mice were evaluated with/without FK506. 
Chronic FK506 treatment in 3xTgAD mice explored its influence on CaN, Aβ, and 
Tau levels. This study underscores the significant influence of CaN inhibition 
on TauO and associated AD pathology, suggesting therapeutic potential in 
targeting CaN for addressing various aspects of AD onset and progression. These 
findings provide valuable insights for potential interventions in AD, 
emphasizing the need for further exploration of CaN-targeted strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25169092
PMCID: PMC11354963
PMID: 39201779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


77. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 21;25(16):9077. doi: 10.3390/ijms25169077.

Estrogen Receptors: A New Frontier in Alzheimer's Disease Therapy.

Cipriano GL(1), Mazzon E(1), Anchesi I(1).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Centro Neurolesi "Bonino-Pulejo", Via Provinciale Palermo, Contrada 
Casazza, 98124 Messina, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a long-term neurodegenerative condition that leads 
to the deterioration of neurons and synapses in the cerebral cortex, resulting 
in severe dementia. AD is significantly more prevalent in postmenopausal women, 
suggesting a neuroprotective role for estrogen. Estrogen is now known to 
regulate a wide array of physiological functions in the body by interacting with 
three known estrogen receptors (ERs) and with the β-amyloid precursor protein, a 
key factor in AD pathogenesis. Recent experimental evidence indicates that new 
selective ER modulators and phytoestrogens may be promising treatments for AD 
for their neuroprotective and anti-apoptotic properties. These alternatives may 
offer fewer side effects compared to traditional hormone therapies, which are 
associated with risks such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and metabolic 
dysfunctions. This review sheds light on estrogen-based treatments that may help 
to partially prevent or control the neurodegenerative processes characteristic 
of AD, paving the way for further investigation in the development of 
estrogen-based treatments.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25169077
PMCID: PMC11354998
PMID: 39201762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


78. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 21;25(16):9049. doi: 10.3390/ijms25169049.

Advances in Cholinesterase Inhibitor Research-An Overview of Preclinical Studies 
of Selected Organoruthenium(II) Complexes.

Žužek MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preclinical Sciences, Veterinary Faculty, University of 
Ljubljana, Gerbičeva 60, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors are crucial therapeutic agents for the 
symptomatic treatment of certain chronic neurodegenerative diseases linked to 
functional disorders of the cholinergic system. Significant research efforts 
have been made to develop novel derivatives of classical ChE inhibitors and ChE 
inhibitors with novel scaffolds. Over the past decade, ruthenium complexes have 
emerged as promising novel therapeutic alternatives for the treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases. Our research group has investigated a number of 
newly synthesized organoruthenium(II) complexes for their inhibitory activity 
against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE). Three 
complexes (C1a, C1-C, and C1) inhibit ChE in a pharmacologically relevant range. 
C1a reversibly inhibits AChE and BChE without undesirable peripheral effects, 
making it a promising candidate for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. C1-Cl 
complex reversibly and competitively inhibits ChEs, particularly AChE. It 
inhibits nerve-evoked skeletal muscle twitch and tetanic contraction in a 
concentration-dependent manner with no effect on directly elicited twitch and 
tetanic contraction and is promising for further preclinical studies as a 
competitive neuromuscular blocking agent. C1 is a selective, competitive, and 
reversible inhibitor of BChE that inhibits horse serum BChE (hsBChE) without 
significant effect on the peripheral neuromuscular system and is a highly 
species-specific inhibitor of hsBChE that could serve as a species-specific drug 
target. This research contributes to the expanding knowledge of ChE inhibitors 
based on ruthenium complexes and highlights their potential as promising 
therapeutic candidates for chronic neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25169049
PMCID: PMC11354293
PMID: 39201735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflicts of interest.


79. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 20;25(16):9036. doi: 10.3390/ijms25169036.

A Bioinformatics-Based Study on Methylation Alterations of the FBLN1 Gene in 
Hippocampal Tissue of Alzheimer's Disease Model DKO and DTG Mice.

Tang R(1), Jian Y(1), Hu Z(1), Li L(1), Wang H(2), Miao P(1), Yang Z(2), Tang 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou 
646000, China.
(2)The School of Clinical Medical Sciences, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou 
646000, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive cognitive decline and 
late-stage neurobehavioral issues marked by amyloid-beta plaques and Tau protein 
tangles. This study aims to investigate Fibulin-1(FBLN1) gene expression in the 
hippocampal tissue of Presenilin-1/Presenilin-2 conditional double-knockout 
(DKO) and double-transgenic (DTG) mice, using single-cell sequencing and 
experimental methods to verify abnormal methylation status and correlation with 
AD. Genomic DNA from DKO and DTG mice was used for genotyping. Reduced 
Representation Bisulfite Sequencing (RRBS) identified 10 genes with abnormal 
methylation changes, with protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis 
highlighting five core genes, including FBLN1. Single-cell sequencing, RT-PCR, 
and Western blotting (WB) were used to analyze FBLN1 mRNA and protein levels in 
the hippocampal tissues of early-stage and mid-stage AD DKO, DTG, and CBAC57 
mice. RRBS identified 10 genes with abnormal methylation, with PPI highlighting 
five core genes. Single-cell sequencing showed significant FBLN1 expression in 
AD groups. RT-PCR and WB indicated elevated FBLN1 mRNA and protein levels in 
mid-stage AD DKO and DTG mice compared to CBAC57 mice, with no differences in 
early-stage AD DKO and CBAC57 mice. RRBS revealed hypomethylation of the FBLN1 
gene in mid-stage AD DKO mice. Elevated FBLN1 expression in AD models suggests 
an age-dependent neurodegenerative mechanism independent of amyloid-beta 
deposition. This study enhances our understanding of AD's epigenetic mechanisms, 
which will aid targeted diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25169036
PMCID: PMC11354892
PMID: 39201719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


80. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 20;25(16):9019. doi: 10.3390/ijms25169019.

Influence of Exercise and Genistein to Mitigate the Deleterious Effects of 
High-Fat High-Sugar Diet on Alzheimer's Disease-Related Markers in Male Mice.

Shah J(1), Orosz T(1), Singh A(1), Laxma SP(1), Gross RE(1), Smith N(1), Vroegop 
S(1), Sudler S(1), Porter JT(2), Colon M(2), Jun L(3), Babu JR(3), Shim M(4), 
Broderick TL(5), Al-Nakkash L(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Arizona College of Osteopathic Medicine, Midwestern University, 19555 N. 59th 
Avenue, Glendale, AZ 85308, USA.
(2)Department of Basic Sciences, Ponce Research Institute, Ponce Health Sciences 
University, Ponce 00732, Puerto Rico.
(3)Department of Nutritional Sciences, Auburn University, Auburn, AL 36849, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, College of Graduate Studies, Midwestern 
University, 19555 N. 59th Avenue, Glendale, AZ 85308, USA.
(5)Department of Physiology, College of Graduate Studies, Midwestern University, 
19555 N. 59th Avenue, Glendale, AZ 85308, USA.

The prevalence of obesity and related consequences, including insulin resistance 
and Alzheimer's-like neuropathology, has increased dramatically. Contributing to 
this prevalence is the shift in lifestyle preference away from wholesome foods 
and exercise to the Western-style diet and sedentarism. Despite advances in drug 
development, a healthy diet and regular exercise remain the most effective 
approaches to mitigating the unwanted sequelae of diet-induced obesity on brain 
health. In this study, we used the high-fat high-sugar (HFHS) mouse model of 
neurodegeneration to examine the effects of exercise training (HFHS+Ex), 
genistein treatment (HFHS+Gen), and combination treatment (HFHS+Ex+Gen) on 
proteins relating to neurodegeneration in the brain of male mice. After a period 
of 12 weeks, as expected, HFHS feeding increased body weight, adipose tissue 
weight, and systemic plasma inflammation (TNF-α) compared to lean mice fed a 
standard diet. HFHS feeding also increased protein expression of brain markers 
of insulin resistance (pGSK-3β, p-IR), apoptosis (caspase 3), early 
neurofibrillary tangles (CP13), and amyloid-beta precursor (CT20). Compared to 
HFHS mice, Ex decreased body weight, plasma TNF-α, and expression of pGSK-3β, 
caspase 3, CP13, amyloid-β precursor (22c11), and ADAM10. Treatment with Gen was 
equally protective on these markers and decreased the expression of p-IR. 
Combination treatment with Ex and Gen afforded the greatest overall benefits, 
and this group exhibited the greatest reduction in body and adipose tissue 
weight and all brain markers, except for 22c11 and ADAM10, which were decreased 
compared to mice fed an HFHS diet. In addition, levels of 4G8, which detects 
protein levels of amyloid-β, were decreased with combination treatment. Our 
results indicate that exercise training, genistein supplementation, or 
combination treatment provide varying degrees of neuroprotection from HFHS 
feeding-induced Alzheimer's pathology. Future perspectives could include 
evaluating moderate exercise regimens in combination with dietary 
supplementation with genistein in humans to determine whether the same benefits 
translate clinically.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25169019
PMCID: PMC11354341
PMID: 39201705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


81. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 20;25(16):9018. doi: 10.3390/ijms25169018.

NLRP3 Negative Regulation Mechanisms in the Resting State and Its Implications 
for Therapeutic Development.

Kim Y(1)(2), Lee S(1)(2), Park YH(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon 16499, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Graduate School of Ajou University, Suwon 
16499, Republic of Korea.

The NACHT-, leucine-rich-repeat-, and pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) 
is a critical intracellular sensor of the innate immune system that detects 
various pathogen- and danger-associated molecular patterns, leading to the 
assembly of the NLRP3 inflammasome and release of interleukin (IL) 1β and IL-18. 
However, the abnormal activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome has been implicated 
in the pathogenesis of autoinflammatory diseases such as cryopyrin-associated 
autoinflammatory syndromes (CAPS) and common diseases such as Alzheimer's 
disease and asthma. Recent studies have revealed that pyrin functions as an 
indirect sensor, similar to the plant guard system, and is regulated by binding 
to inhibitory 14-3-3 proteins. Upon activation, pyrin transitions to its active 
form. NLRP3 is predicted to follow a similar regulatory mechanism and maintain 
its inactive form in the cage model, as it also acts as an indirect sensor. 
Additionally, newly developed NLRP3 inhibitors have been found to inhibit NLRP3 
activity by stabilizing its inactive form. Most studies and reviews on NLRP3 
have focused on the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. This review highlights 
the molecular mechanisms that regulate NLRP3 in its resting state, and discusses 
how targeting this inhibitory mechanism can lead to novel therapeutic strategies 
for NLRP3-related diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25169018
PMCID: PMC11354250
PMID: 39201704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


82. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 18;25(16):8982. doi: 10.3390/ijms25168982.

Carotenoid Supplementation for Alleviating the Symptoms of Alzheimer's Disease.

Flieger J(1), Forma A(2), Flieger W(3), Flieger M(2), Gawlik PJ(3), Dzierżyński 
E(3), Maciejewski R(4), Teresiński G(2), Baj J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Medical University of Lublin, Chodźki 4a, 
20-093 Lublin, Poland.
(2)Department of Forensic Medicine, Medical University of Lublin, ul. 
Jaczewskiego 8b, 20-090 Lublin, Poland.
(3)Department of Plastic Surgery, St. John's Cancer Center, ul. Jaczewskiego 7, 
20-090 Lublin, Poland.
(4)Institute of Health Sciences, John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin, 
Konstantynów 1 H, 20-708 Lublin, Poland.
(5)Department of Correct, Clinical and Imaging Anatomy, Medical University of 
Lublin, ul. Jaczewskiego 4, 20-090 Lublin, Poland.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by, among other things, dementia and a 
decline in cognitive performance. In AD, dementia has neurodegenerative features 
and starts with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Research indicates that 
apoptosis and neuronal loss occur in AD, in which oxidative stress plays an 
important role. Therefore, reducing oxidative stress with antioxidants is a 
natural strategy to prevent and slow down the progression of AD. Carotenoids are 
natural pigments commonly found in fruits and vegetables. They include 
lipophilic carotenes, such as lycopene, α- and β-carotenes, and more polar 
xanthophylls, for example, lutein, zeaxanthin, canthaxanthin, and 
β-cryptoxanthin. Carotenoids can cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and 
scavenge free radicals, especially singlet oxygen, which helps prevent the 
peroxidation of lipids abundant in the brain. As a result, carotenoids have 
neuroprotective potential. Numerous in vivo and in vitro studies, as well as 
randomized controlled trials, have mostly confirmed that carotenoids can help 
prevent neurodegeneration and alleviate cognitive impairment in AD. While 
carotenoids have not been officially approved as an AD therapy, they are 
indicated in the diet recommended for AD, including the consumption of products 
rich in carotenoids. This review summarizes the latest research findings 
supporting the potential use of carotenoids in preventing and alleviating AD 
symptoms. A literature review suggests that a diet rich in carotenoids should be 
promoted to avoid cognitive decline in AD. One of the goals of the food industry 
should be to encourage the enrichment of food products with functional 
substances, such as carotenoids, which may reduce the risk of neurodegenerative 
diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25168982
PMCID: PMC11354426
PMID: 39201668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


83. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 16;25(16):8948. doi: 10.3390/ijms25168948.

Long-Term, Sex-Specific Effects of GCRsim and Gamma Irradiation on the Brains, 
Hearts, and Kidneys of Mice with Alzheimer's Disease Mutations.

Varma C(1), Schroeder MK(1), Price BR(1)(2), Khan KA(1), Curty da Costa E(3), 
Hochman-Mendez C(3), Caldarone BJ(4), Lemere CA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(3)Department of Regenerative Medicine Research, Texas Heart Institute, Houston, 
TX 77030, USA.
(4)Mouse Behavioral Core, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Understanding the hazards of space radiation is imperative as astronauts begin 
voyaging on missions with increasing distances from Earth's protective shield. 
Previous studies investigating the acute or long-term effects of specific ions 
comprising space radiation have revealed threats to organs generally considered 
radioresistant, like the brain, and have shown males to be more vulnerable than 
their female counterparts. However, astronauts will be exposed to a combination 
of ions that may result in additive effects differing from those of any one 
particle species. To better understand this nuance, we irradiated 4-month-old 
male and female, wild-type and Alzheimer's-like mice with 0, 0.5, or 0.75 Gy 
galactic cosmic ray simulation (GCRsim) or 0, 0.75, or 2 Gy gamma radiation 
(wild-type only). At 11 months, mice underwent brain and heart MRIs or 
behavioral tests, after which they were euthanized to assess amyloid-beta 
pathology, heart and kidney gene expression and fibrosis, and plasma cytokines. 
Although there were no changes in amyloid-beta pathology, we observed many 
differences in brain MRIs and behavior, including opposite effects of GCRsim on 
motor coordination in male and female transgenic mice. Additionally, several 
genes demonstrated persistent changes in the heart and kidney. Overall, we found 
sex- and genotype-specific, long-term effects of GCRsim and gamma radiation on 
the brain, heart, and kidney.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25168948
PMCID: PMC11355020
PMID: 39201636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C.A.L. serves as a paid scientific advisor for 
Acumen Pharmaceuticals, ADvantage Therapeutics, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Apellis 
Pharmaceuticals, Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, Cyclo Therapeutics, Merck, MindImmune 
Therapeutics, Novo Nordisk, and Sanofi-Genzyme, and receives research funding 
from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), NASA, and the Cure Alzheimer’s 
Fund. All other authors have no conflicts to report.


84. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 16;25(16):8931. doi: 10.3390/ijms25168931.

A Cationic Zn-Phthalocyanine Turns Alzheimer's Amyloid β Aggregates into 
Non-Toxic Oligomers and Inhibits Neurotoxicity in Culture.

Sheikh AM(1), Tabassum S(1), Yano S(1), Abdullah FB(2), Wang R(2), Ikeue T(3), 
Nagai A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Shimane University Faculty of Medicine, 
89-1 Enya Cho, Izumo 693-8501, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Shimane University Faculty of Medicine, 89-1 Enya 
Cho, Izumo 693-8501, Japan.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Shimane 
University, 1060 Nishikawatsu, Matsue 690-8504, Japan.

Amyloid β peptide (Aβ) aggregation and deposition are considered the main causes 
of Alzheimer's disease. In a previous study, we demonstrated that anionic 
Zn-phthalocyanine (ZnPc) can interact with the Aβ peptide and inhibit the 
fibril-formation process. However, due to the inability of anionic ZnPc to cross 
the intact blood-brain barrier, we decided to explore the interaction of 
cationic methylated Zn-phthalocyanine (cZnPc) with the peptide. Using a ThT 
fluorescence assay, we observed that cZnPc dose-dependently and time-dependently 
inhibited Aβ1-42 fibril levels under in vitro fibril-formation conditions. 
Electron microscopy revealed that it caused Aβ1-42 peptides to form small 
aggregates. Western blotting and dot immunoblot oligomer experiments 
demonstrated that cZnPc increased rather than decreased the levels of oligomers 
from the very early stages of incubation. A binding assay confirmed that cZnPc 
could bind with the peptide. Docking simulations indicated that the oligomer 
species of Aβ1-42 had a higher ability to interact with cZnPc. ANS fluorescence 
assay results indicated that cZnPc did not affect the hydrophobicity of the 
peptide. However, cZnPc significantly increased intrinsic tyrosine fluorescence 
of the peptide after 8 h of incubation in fibril-formation conditions. 
Importantly, cell culture experiments demonstrated that cZnPc did not exhibit 
any toxicity up to a concentration of 10 µM. Instead, it protected a neuronal 
cell line from Aβ1-42-induced toxicity. Thus, our results suggest that cZnPc can 
affect the aggregation process of Aβ1-42, rendering it non-toxic, which could be 
crucial for the therapy of Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25168931
PMCID: PMC11354870
PMID: 39201616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


85. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 16;25(16):8917. doi: 10.3390/ijms25168917.

Drug Repurposing for COVID-19 by Constructing a Comorbidity Network with Central 
Nervous System Disorders.

Qian J(1), Yang B(1), Wang S(1), Yuan S(1), Zhu W(1), Zhou Z(1), Zhang Y(2), Hu 
G(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)MOE Key Laboratory of Geriatric Diseases and Immunology, Suzhou Key 
Laboratory of Pathogen Bioscience and Anti-Infective Medicine, Department of 
Bioinformatics, Center for Systems Biology, School of Life Sciences, Suzhou 
Medical College of Soochow University, Suzhou 215213, China.
(2)Experimental Center of Suzhou Medical College of Soochow University, Suzhou 
215123, China.
(3)Jiangsu Province Engineering Research Center of Precision Diagnostics and 
Therapeutics Development, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Alkene-Carbon Fibres-Based Technology & Application for 
Detection of Major Infectious Diseases, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, 
China.
(5)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Infection and Immunity, Soochow University, Suzhou 
215123, China.

In the post-COVID-19 era, treatment options for potential SARS-CoV-2 outbreaks 
remain limited. An increased incidence of central nervous system (CNS) disorders 
has been observed in long-term COVID-19 patients. Understanding the shared 
molecular mechanisms between these conditions may provide new insights for 
developing effective therapies. This study developed an integrative 
drug-repurposing framework for COVID-19, leveraging comorbidity data with CNS 
disorders, network-based modular analysis, and dynamic perturbation analysis to 
identify potential drug targets and candidates against SARS-CoV-2. We 
constructed a comorbidity network based on the literature and data collection, 
including COVID-19-related proteins and genes associated with Alzheimer's 
disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, and autism spectrum disorder. 
Functional module detection and annotation identified a module primarily 
involved in protein synthesis as a key target module, utilizing connectivity map 
drug perturbation data. Through the construction of a weighted drug-target 
network and dynamic network-based drug-repurposing analysis, 
ubiquitin-carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 emerged as a potential drug target. 
Molecular dynamics simulations suggested pregnenolone and BRD-K87426499 as two 
drug candidates for COVID-19. This study introduces a 
dynamic-perturbation-network-based drug-repurposing approach to identify 
COVID-19 drug targets and candidates by incorporating the comorbidity conditions 
of CNS disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25168917
PMCID: PMC11354300
PMID: 39201608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


86. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 7;25(16):8630. doi: 10.3390/ijms25168630.

A Comprehensive Exploration of the Multifaceted Neuroprotective Role of 
Cannabinoids in Alzheimer's Disease across a Decade of Research.

Tyrakis P(1), Agridi C(1), Kourti M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, School of Sciences, European University Cyprus, 
Nicosia 1516, Cyprus.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, manifests 
through dysregulation of brain function and subsequent loss of bodily control, 
attributed to β-amyloid plaque deposition and TAU protein hyperphosphorylation 
and aggregation, leading to neuronal death. Concurrently, similar cannabinoids 
to the ones derived from Cannabis sativa are present in the endocannabinoid 
system, acting through receptors CB1R and CB2R and other related receptors such 
as Trpv-1 and GPR-55, and are being extensively investigated for AD therapy. 
Given the limited efficacy and adverse effects of current available treatments, 
alternative approaches are crucial. Therefore, this review aims to identify 
effective natural and synthetic cannabinoids and elucidate their beneficial 
actions for AD treatment. PubMed and Scopus databases were queried (2014-2024) 
using keywords such as "Alzheimer's disease" and "cannabinoids". The majority of 
natural (Δ9-THC, CBD, AEA, etc.) and synthetic (JWH-133, WIN55,212-2, CP55-940, 
etc.) cannabinoids included showed promise in improving memory, cognition, and 
behavioral symptoms, potentially via pathways involving antioxidant effects of 
selective CB1R agonists (such as the BDNF/TrkB/Akt pathway) and immunomodulatory 
effects of selective CB2R agonists (TLR4/NF-κB p65 pathway). Combining 
anticholinesterase properties with a cannabinoid moiety may enhance therapeutic 
responses, addressing cholinergic deficits of AD brains. Thus, the positive 
outcomes of the vast majority of studies discussed support further advancing 
cannabinoids in clinical trials for AD treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25168630
PMCID: PMC11354546
PMID: 39201317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


87. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Aug 7;25(16):8619. doi: 10.3390/ijms25168619.

Interconnections between the Gut Microbiome and Alzheimer's Disease: Mechanisms 
and Therapeutic Potential.

Sait AM(1)(2), Day PJR(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Medical Laboratory Science, Faculty of Applied Medical Science, King 
Abdulaziz University, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Regenerative Medicine Unit, King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz 
University, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Division of Evolution and Genomic Sciences, Faculty of Biology, Medicine and 
Health, The University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PL, UK.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape Town 7925, South 
Africa.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that is known to 
accumulate amyloid-β (Aβ) and tau protein. Clinical studies have not identified 
pathogenesis mechanisms or produced an effective cure for AD. The Aβ monoclonal 
antibody lecanemab reduces Aβ plaque formation for the treatment of AD, but more 
studies are required to increase the effectiveness of drugs to reduce cognitive 
decline. The lack of AD therapy targets and evidence of an association with an 
acute neuroinflammatory response caused by several bacteria and viruses in some 
individuals has led to the establishment of the infection hypothesis during the 
last 10 years. How pathogens cross the blood-brain barrier is highly topical and 
is seen to be pivotal in proving the hypothesis. This review summarizes the 
possible role of the gut microbiome in the pathogenesis of AD and feasible 
therapeutic approaches and current research limitations.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25168619
PMCID: PMC11354889
PMID: 39201303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


88. J Clin Med. 2024 Aug 8;13(16):4661. doi: 10.3390/jcm13164661.

Biomarker-Based Precision Therapy for Alzheimer's Disease: Multidimensional 
Evidence Leading a New Breakthrough in Personalized Medicine.

Bougea A(1), Gourzis P(2).

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Neurology, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 
15772 Athens, Greece.
(2)1st Department of Psychiatry, University of Patras, 26504 Rio, Greece.

(1) Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a worldwide neurodegenerative 
disorder characterized by the buildup of abnormal proteins in the central 
nervous system and cognitive decline. Since no radical therapy exists, only 
symptomatic treatments alleviate symptoms temporarily. In this review, we will 
explore the latest advancements in precision medicine and biomarkers for AD, 
including their potential to revolutionize the way we diagnose and treat this 
devastating condition. (2) Methods: A literature search was performed combining 
the following Medical Subject Heading (MeSH) terms on PubMed: "Alzheimer's 
disease", "biomarkers", "APOE", "APP", "GWAS", "cerebrospinal fluid", "polygenic 
risk score", "Aβ42", "τP-181", " p-tau217", "ptau231", "proteomics", "total tau 
protein", and "precision medicine" using Boolean operators. (3) Results: 
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous genetic variants 
associated with AD risk, while a transcriptomic analysis has revealed 
dysregulated gene expression patterns in the brains of individuals with AD. The 
proteomic and metabolomic profiling of biological fluids, such as blood, urine, 
and CSF, and neuroimaging biomarkers have also yielded potential biomarkers of 
AD that could be used for the early diagnosis and monitoring of disease 
progression. (4) Conclusion: By leveraging a combination of the above 
biomarkers, novel ultrasensitive immunoassays, mass spectrometry methods, and 
metabolomics, researchers are making significant strides towards personalized 
healthcare for individuals with AD.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm13164661
PMCID: PMC11355840
PMID: 39200803

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


89. Foods. 2024 Aug 17;13(16):2577. doi: 10.3390/foods13162577.

Black Mulberries (Morus nigra L.) Modulate Oxidative Stress and 
Beta-Amyloid-Induced Toxicity, Becoming a Potential Neuroprotective Functional 
Food.

Cásedas G(1)(2), Moliner C(1), Abad-Longas A(1), Núñez S(1), Gómez-Rincón 
C(1)(2), Maggi F(3), López V(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Universidad San Jorge, 
50830 Zaragoza, Spain.
(2)Instituto Agroalimentario de Aragón-IA2, CITA-Universidad de Zaragoza, 50009 
Zaragoza, Spain.
(3)Chemistry Interdisciplinary Project (ChIP) Research Center, School of 
Pharmacy, University of Camerino, 62032 Camerino, Italy.
(4)Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad San Jorge, Campus Universitario 
Villanueva de Gállego, Autovía A-23 Zaragoza-Huesca Km. 299, 50830 Zaragoza, 
Spain.

Black mulberry (Morus nigra L.) is a common edible fruit from the Moraceae 
family with a wide variety of nutritional and medicinal applications, mainly due 
to its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. The purpose of this work 
was to investigate the cytoprotective and neuroprotective capacity of a 
hydrophilic black mulberry solvent-free extract rich in polyphenols, including 
the antioxidant, antiradical, and enzymatic mechanisms that would explain these 
effects. Its neuroprotective potential was evaluated in vitro using the Neuro-2a 
cell line and in vivo through the Caenorhabditis elegans organism model. 
Neuro-2a cells were treated at different concentrations of the extract (25-500 
µg/mL) and hydrogen peroxide (300 µM) as an oxidant agent, simultaneously. From 
these treatments, redox status (intracellular ROS production) and cellular 
activity (MTT) were also quantified in Neuro-2a. Regarding the C. elegans assay, 
the protection of the extract against β-amyloid toxicity was measured against 
the CL4176 strain, which is a model of Alzheimer disease. As a complementary 
neuroprotective assay, its potential to inhibit the monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) 
enzyme was measured. In addition, an Artemia salina bioassay was performed for 
preliminary toxicity screening. And its antioxidant properties were evaluated by 
means of the FRAP assay. The results confirm its neuroprotective potential and 
its ability to scavenge free radicals and decrease ROS production, also acting 
as a moderate MAO-A inhibitor. Moreover, the polyphenolic extract alleviates the 
toxicity induced by β-amyloid accumulation in C. elegans. Concluding, Morus 
nigra can be considered a functional food with bioactive compounds that may 
prevent the onset of neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/foods13162577
PMCID: PMC11353910
PMID: 39200504

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they do not have any 
conflicts of interest.


90. Biomedicines. 2024 Aug 20;12(8):1906. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12081906.

Growth Factors and Their Application in the Therapy of Hereditary 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Issa S(1), Fayoud H(1), Shaimardanova A(2), Sufianov A(3)(4), Sufianova G(5), 
Solovyeva V(2), Rizvanov A(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Biotechnology, St. Petersburg State University, 
199034 St. Petersburg, Russia.
(2)Institute of Fundamental Medicine and Biology, Kazan Federal University, 
420008 Kazan, Russia.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University of 
the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Sechenov University), 119991 
Moscow, Russia.
(4)The Research and Educational Institute of Neurosurgery, Peoples' Friendship 
University of Russia (RUDN), 117198 Moscow, Russia.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Tyumen State Medical University, 625023 Tyumen, 
Russia.
(6)Division of Medical and Biological Sciences, Tatarstan Academy of Sciences, 
420111 Kazan, Russia.

Hereditary neurodegenerative diseases (hNDDs) such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, 
Huntington's disease, and others are primarily characterized by their 
progressive nature, severely compromising both the cognitive and motor abilities 
of patients. The underlying genetic component in hNDDs contributes to disease 
risk, creating a complex genetic landscape. Considering the fact that growth 
factors play crucial roles in regulating cellular processes, such as 
proliferation, differentiation, and survival, they could have therapeutic 
potential for hNDDs, provided appropriate dosing and safe delivery approaches 
are ensured. This article presents a detailed overview of growth factors, and 
explores their therapeutic potential in treating hNDDs, emphasizing their roles 
in neuronal survival, growth, and synaptic plasticity. However, challenges such 
as proper dosing, delivery methods, and patient variability can hinder their 
clinical application.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines12081906
PMCID: PMC11351319
PMID: 39200370

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


91. Biomedicines. 2024 Aug 20;12(8):1899. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12081899.

Dendrimers-Novel Therapeutic Approaches for Alzheimer's Disease.

Mroziak M(1), Kozłowski G(1), Kołodziejczyk W(1), Pszczołowska M(1), Walczak 
K(1), Beszłej JA(2), Leszek J(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Wrocław Medical University, 50-367 Wrocław, Poland.
(2)Clinic of Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, Medical Department, Wrocław 
Medical University, 50-367 Wrocław, Poland.

Dendrimers are covalently bonded globular nanostructures that may be used in the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Nowadays, AD therapies are focused on 
improving cognitive functioning and not causal treatment. However, this may 
change with the use of dendrimers, which are being investigated as a 
drug-delivery system or as a drug per se. With their ability to inhibit amyloid 
formation and their anti-tau properties, they are a promising therapeutic option 
for AD patients. Studies have shown that dendrimers may inhibit amyloid 
formation in at least two ways: by blocking fibril growth and by breaking 
already existing fibrils. Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are abnormal filaments 
built by tau proteins that can be accumulated in the cell, which leads to the 
loss of cytoskeletal microtubules and tubulin-associated proteins. Cationic 
phosphorus dendrimers, with their anti-tau properties, can induce the 
aggregation of tau into amorphous structures. Drug delivery to mitochondria is 
difficult due to poor transport across biological barriers, such as the inner 
mitochondrial membrane, which is highly negatively polarized. Dendrimers may be 
potential nanocarriers and increase mitochondria targeting. Another considered 
use of dendrimers in AD treatment is as a drug-delivery system, for example, 
carbamazepine (CBZ) or tacrine. They can also be used to transport siRNA into 
neuronal tissue and to carry antioxidants and anti-inflammatory drugs to act 
protectively on the nervous system.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines12081899
PMCID: PMC11351976
PMID: 39200363

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


92. Biomedicines. 2024 Aug 16;12(8):1870. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12081870.

Regional Variability in MRI Scans with Different Magnetic Field Strengths in 
Japan: Implications for Healthcare Preparedness for Alzheimer's Disease 
Treatment.

Sato K(1)(2), Niimi Y(2)(3), Ihara R(4), Iwata A(4), Iwatsubo T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.
(2)Unit for Early and Exploratory Clinical Development, The University of Tokyo 
Hospital, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.
(3)Department of Healthcare Economics and Health Policy, Graduate School of 
Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.
(4)Department of Neurology, Tokyo Metopolitan Institute for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology, Tokyo 173-0015, Japan.

(1) Background: The 2023 approval of lecanemab for early-stage Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) highlighted the need for routine 1.5T or 3.0T MRI scans to monitor 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIAs). Regional disparities in MRI scan 
frequency, MRI scanner availability, and scanner magnetic field strengths could 
affect readiness for anti-amyloid therapy and lead to inconsistencies in ARIA 
detection nationwide. (2) Methods: We assessed regional variance in MRI scan 
frequency and field strength across Japan using the National Database (NDB) Open 
Data website, which summarizes Japanese public health insurance claims from the 
fiscal years (FYs) 2015 to 2021. We employed a mixed-effects model with 
prefecture-level random intercepts and slopes over time, subsequently 
categorizing prefectures into clusters based on MRI usage. (3) Results: 1.5T MRI 
was the most common magnetic field strength, remaining stable from FY2015 to 
FY2021. 3.0T MRI usage slightly increased, although the COVID-19 pandemic in 
FY2020 led to a maximum reduction of 5%. Prefecture-level variance was higher 
for 3.0T MRIs, with more frequent usage in western Japan. (4) Conclusions: This 
study highlights prefecture-level variance in MRI usage across Japan. The 
insights gained could be instrumental in improving healthcare preparedness for 
anti-amyloid treatment and patient management.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines12081870
PMCID: PMC11351322
PMID: 39200334

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


93. Biomedicines. 2024 Aug 9;12(8):1812. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12081812.

Phytotherapy in Alzheimer's Disease-A Narrative Review.

Piekarz J(1), Picheta N(1), Burdan O(1), Kurek M(1), Chrościńska-Krawczyk M(2).

Author information:
(1)Students' Scientific Association, Department of Paediatric Neurology, Medical 
University, 20-059 Lublin, Poland.
(2)Department of Children's Neurology, University Children's Hospital, 20-093 
Lublin, Poland.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects 50-70% of patients with dementia, making it the 
leading cause of dementia. The condition is classified as a neurodegenerative, 
progressive and incurable disease. The disease is affecting more and more people 
around the world. AD has a multifactorial nature, spreading from beta-amyloid 
deposition to inflammation in patients' brains. Patients experience cognitive 
impairment and functional decline. Although it is a disease that occurs mainly 
in the elderly, it is increasingly being diagnosed in young people between the 
ages of 30 and 40. It not only affects the patient themself but also reduces the 
quality of life of their closest caregivers. According to the WHO, the treatment 
of AD consumes USD 1.3 trillion globally, but it is only symptomatic, as there 
are no drugs to prevent the onset of AD or treat the cause of its onset. Due to 
the numerous side effects of therapy and the lack of proactive drugs that act on 
the pathomechanism of AD, alternative therapies are being sought. One possible 
option that has many studies confirming its effect is phytotherapy. Many herbs 
have pharmacological properties, such as antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, or 
neuroprotective effects, making them the future of cognitive disorders and AD 
treatment. This review focuses on some of the most promising herbs that have 
potentially potent properties and effects in AD therapy. These include Curcuma 
longa, Panax ginseng, Berberis and Crocus sativus. These herbs may perhaps be 
key in the future to make functioning and life easier for patients struggling 
with AD.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines12081812
PMCID: PMC11351709
PMID: 39200276

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


94. Biomedicines. 2024 Aug 6;12(8):1776. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12081776.

Sustained Cognitive Improvement in Alzheimer's Disease Patients Following a 
Precision Medicine Protocol: Case Series.

Bredesen DE(1), Ross MK(2), Ross S(2).

Author information:
(1)Precision Brain Health Program, Pacific Brain Health Center, Pacific 
Neuroscience Institute, Santa Monica, CA 90404, USA.
(2)Institute for Personalized Medicine, Savannah, GA 31406, USA.

Arguably, the most important parameter in treating cognitive decline associated 
with Alzheimer's disease is the length of time in which improvement, if achieved 
at all, is sustained. However, monotherapies such as donepezil and memantine are 
associated with a more rapid decline than no treatment in patients over 
multi-year follow-ups. Furthermore, anti-amyloid antibody treatment, which at 
best simply slows decline, is associated with accelerated cerebral atrophy, 
resulting in earlier dementia-associated brain volumes for those treated at the 
MCI stage than untreated patients. In contrast, a precision medicine approach, 
in which the multiple potential drivers of cognitive decline are identified for 
each patient and then targeted with a personalized protocol (such as ReCODE), 
has led to documented improvements in patients with cognitive decline, but 
long-term follow-up (>5 years) has not been reported previously. Therefore, 
here, we report sustained cognitive improvement, in some cases for over a 
decade, in patients treated with a precision medicine protocol-something that 
has not been reported in patients treated with anti-cholinesterase, glutamate 
receptor inhibitory, anti-amyloid, or other therapeutic methods. These case 
studies warrant long-term cohort studies to determine how frequently such 
sustained cognitive improvements occur in patients treated with precision 
medicine protocols.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines12081776
PMCID: PMC11351722
PMID: 39200239

Conflict of interest statement: D.E.B. is a consultant for Apollo Health and 
Life Seasons, neither of which was involved in this study or had any access to 
the study data. M.K.R. worked for Thorne during some of the time in which she 
treated some of the patients described in the manuscript, but Thorne was not 
involved in the management of the patients, and had no access to the data 
reported in the manuscript.


95. Biomedicines. 2024 Aug 3;12(8):1750. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12081750.

Impact of Sodium Glucose Cotransporter 2 Inhibitors (SGLT2i) Therapy on Dementia 
and Cognitive Decline.

Lardaro A(1), Quarta L(1), Pagnotta S(1), Sodero G(2), Mariani S(3), Del Ben 
M(1), Desideri G(1), Ettorre E(1), Baratta F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Internal, Anesthesiologic and Cardiovascular Sciences, 
Sapienza University of Rome, 00161 Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Woman and Child Health and Public Health, Fondazione 
Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS, 00136 Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties, Policlinico Umberto 
I University Hospital, 00161 Rome, Italy.

Dementia is an age-related syndrome characterized by the progressive 
deterioration of cognition and capacity for independent living. Diabetes is 
often associated with cognitive decline and shares similar pathophysiological 
mechanisms with dementia, such as systemic inflammation, oxidative stress, 
insulin resistance, and advanced glycation end-products formation. Therefore, 
adequate diabetes management may reduce the risk of cognitive decline, 
especially in patients with other comorbidities and risk factors. The sodium 
glucose cotransporter inhibitors (SGLT2i) regulate renal glucose reabsorption by 
blocking the SGLT2 cotransporters located in the proximal tubules, causing 
glycosuria and intraglomerular pressure reduction. Their use helps to lower 
blood pressure by modifying sodium and water homeostasis; these drugs are also 
commonly used in the treatment of heart failure and chronic kidney disease, 
while recently, a potential neuroprotective role in the central nervous system 
has been suggested. The aim of our scoping review is to analyze current evidence 
about the potential neuroprotective effects of SGLT2i in adult patients. We 
performed a scoping literature review to evaluate the effect of SGLT2i on 
dementia, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease incidence and 
progression. The screening process was performed through different searches on 
PubMed and EMBASE, evaluating original works published up to January 2024. In 
conclusion, the use of SGLT2i could be associated with a neuroprotective effect 
in patients with diabetes, reducing the incidence or the progression of MCI and 
dementia. Further prospective studies are needed to validate this hypothesis and 
to evaluate the effectiveness of this class of drugs in normal glycemic profile 
patients.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines12081750
PMCID: PMC11351143
PMID: 39200215

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


96. Brain Sci. 2024 Aug 15;14(8):818. doi: 10.3390/brainsci14080818.

The Association between Long Non-Coding RNAs and Alzheimer's Disease.

Black CM(1), Braden AA(1)(2), Nasim S(3), Tripathi M(4), Xiao J(1), Khan 
MM(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurology, College of Medicine, University of Tennessee Health 
Science Center, Memphis, TN 38163, USA.
(2)Neuroscience Institute, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, 
Memphis, TN 38163, USA.
(3)Departments of Ophthalmology, Hamilton Eye Institute, University of Tennessee 
Health Science Center, Memphis, TN 38163, USA.
(4)Medicine and Oncology, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, McAllen, TX 
78504, USA.
(5)Division of Regenerative and Rehabilitation Sciences, Department of Physical 
Therapy, Center for Muscle, Metabolism and Neuropathology, College of Health 
Professions, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN 38163, 
USA.

Neurodegeneration occurs naturally as humans age, but the presence of additional 
pathogenic mechanisms yields harmful and consequential effects on the brain. 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, is a composite of 
such factors. Despite extensive research to identify the exact causes of AD, 
therapeutic approaches for treating the disease continue to be ineffective, 
indicating important gaps in our understanding of disease mechanisms. Long 
non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are an endogenous class of regulatory RNA transcripts 
longer than 200 nucleotides, involved in various regulatory networks, whose 
dysregulation is evident in several neural and extraneural diseases. LncRNAs are 
ubiquitously expressed across all tissues with a wide range of functions, 
including controlling cell differentiation and development, responding to 
environmental stimuli, and other physiological processes. Several lncRNAs have 
been identified as potential contributors in worsening neurodegeneration due to 
altered regulation during abnormal pathological conditions. Within neurological 
disease, lncRNAs are prime candidates for use as biomarkers and pharmacological 
targets. Gender-associated lncRNA expression is altered in a gender-dependent 
manner for AD, suggesting more research needs to be focused on this 
relationship. Overall, research on lncRNAs and their connection to 
neurodegenerative disease is growing exponentially, as commercial enterprises 
are already designing and employing RNA therapeutics. In this review we offer a 
comprehensive overview of the current state of knowledge on the role of lncRNAs 
in AD and discuss the potential implications of lncRNA as potential therapeutic 
targets and diagnostic biomarkers in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci14080818
PMCID: PMC11353078
PMID: 39199508

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


97. Brain Sci. 2024 Aug 14;14(8):813. doi: 10.3390/brainsci14080813.

The Relationships of Specific Cognitive Control Abilities with Objective and 
Subjective Sleep Parameters in Mild Cognitive Impairment: Revealing the 
Association between Cognitive Planning and Sleep Duration.

Batzikosta A(1)(2), Moraitou D(1)(2), Steiropoulos P(3), Papantoniou G(2)(4)(5), 
Kougioumtzis GA(6)(7), Katsouri IG(8), Sofologi M(4)(5)(7), Tsolaki M(2)(9).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Psychology, Department of Cognition, Brain and Behavior, School 
of Psychology, Faculty of Philosophy, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki 
(AUTh), 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Center of Interdisciplinary 
Research and Innovation (CIRI-AUTH), Balcan Center, Buildings A & B, 57001 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Medical School, Democritus University of 
Thrace, 68100 Alexandroupolis, Greece.
(4)Laboratory of Psychology, Department of Early Childhood Education, School of 
Education, University of Ioannina, 45110 Ioannina, Greece.
(5)Institute of Humanities and Social Sciences, University Research Centre of 
Ioannina (URCI), 45110 Ioannina, Greece.
(6)Department of Turkish Studies and Modern Asian Studies, Faculty of Economic 
and Political Sciences, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 15772 
Athens, Greece.
(7)Department of Psychology, School of Health Sciences, Neapolis University 
Pafos, Pafos 8042, Cyprus.
(8)Department of Occupational Therapy, Faculty of Health and Caring Sciences, 
University of West Attica, 12243 Athens, Greece.
(9)Greek Association of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders (GAADRD), 
Petrou Sindika 13 Str., 54643 Thessaloniki, Greece.

This study aimed to examine the associations between specific sleep parameters 
and specific aspects of cognitive functioning in individuals diagnosed with mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI), compared with healthy controls (HCs) by using 
cognitive, subjective, and objective sleep measures. A total of 179 participants 
were enrolled, all aged ≥ 65 years (mean age = 70.23; SD = 4.74) and with a 
minimum of six years of education (mean = 12.35; SD = 3.22). The sample included 
46 HCs (36 females), 75 individuals with amnestic MCI (aMCI) (51 females), and 
58 individuals with non-amnestic MCI (naMCI) (39 females). Inhibition, cognitive 
flexibility as a combined application of inhibitory control and set shifting or 
task/rule switching, and planning were examined. The following D-KEFS subtests 
were administered for their evaluation: Verbal Fluency Test, Color-Word 
Interference Test, and Tower Test. Self-reported sleep questionnaires (Athens 
Insomnia Scale, Stop-Bang questionnaire, and Pittsburg Sleep Quality Index) were 
used for subjective sleep assessments. Actigraphy was used for objective sleep 
measurements. Mixed-measures ANOVA, MANOVA, and one-way ANOVA, as well as the 
Scheffe post hoc test, were applied to the data. The results showed that the 
three groups exhibited statistically significant differences in the Tower Test 
(total achievement score, total number of administered problems, and total rule 
violations). As regards objective sleep measurements, the total sleep time (TST) 
was measured using actigraphy, and indicated that there are significant 
differences, with the HC group having a significantly higher mean TST compared 
to the naMCI group. The relationships evaluated in the TST Tower Test were found 
to be statistically significant. The findings are discussed in the context of 
potential parameters that can support the connection between sleep duration, 
measured as TST, and cognitive planning, as measured using the Tower Test.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci14080813
PMCID: PMC11352822
PMID: 39199504

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


98. Biomolecules. 2024 Jul 28;14(8):918. doi: 10.3390/biom14080918.

Are Women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome at Increased Risk of Alzheimer Disease? 
Lessons from Insulin Resistance, Tryptophan and Gonadotropin Disturbances and 
Their Link with Amyloid-Beta Aggregation.

Sobczuk J(1), Paczkowska K(2), Andrusiów S(3), Bolanowski M(1)(4), Daroszewski 
J(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Isotope Therapy, University 
Clinical Hospital, 50-367 Wroclaw, Poland.
(2)Endocrinological Ambulatory Care, 62-700 Turek, Poland.
(3)Department of Neurology, Wroclaw Medical University, 50-556 Wroclaw, Poland.
(4)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Isotope Therapy, Wroclaw Medical 
University, 50-556 Wroclaw, Poland.

Alzheimer disease, the leading cause of dementia, and polycystic ovary syndrome, 
one of the most prevalent female endocrine disorders, appear to be unrelated 
conditions. However, studies show that both disease entities have common risk 
factors, and the amount of certain protein marker of neurodegeneration is 
increased in PCOS. Reports on the pathomechanism of both diseases point to the 
possibility of common denominators linking them. Dysregulation of the kynurenine 
pathway, insulin resistance, and impairment of the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, which are correlated with amyloid-beta 
aggregation are these common areas. This article discusses the relationship 
between Alzheimer disease and polycystic ovary syndrome, with a particular focus 
on the role of disorders of tryptophan metabolism in both conditions. Based on a 
review of the available literature, we concluded that systemic changes occurring 
in PCOS influence the increased risk of neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.3390/biom14080918
PMCID: PMC11352735
PMID: 39199306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


99. Antioxidants (Basel). 2024 Aug 14;13(8):984. doi: 10.3390/antiox13080984.

Resveratrol Mitigates Cognitive Impairments and Cholinergic Cell Loss in the 
Medial Septum in a Mouse Model of Gradual Cerebral Hypoperfusion.

Fagerli E(1)(2)(3), Jackson CW(1)(2)(3), Escobar I(1)(2)(3), Ferrier 
FJ(1)(2)(3), Perez Lao EJ(1)(2)(3), Saul I(1)(2), Gomez J(1)(2), Dave 
KR(1)(2)(3), Bracko O(2)(3)(4), Perez-Pinzon MA(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Peritz Scheinberg Cerebral Vascular Disease Research Laboratories, University 
of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL 33136, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL 33136, USA.
(3)Neuroscience Program, University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL 33136, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL 33146, USA.

Vascular cognitive impairment and dementia (VCID) is the second leading cause of 
dementia. There is currently no effective treatment for VCID. Resveratrol (RSV) 
is considered an antioxidant; however, our group has observed pleiotropic 
effects in stroke paradigms, suggesting more effects may contribute to 
mechanistic changes beyond antioxidative properties. The main goal of this study 
was to investigate if administering RSV twice a week could alleviate cognitive 
declines following the induction of a VCID model. Additionally, our aim was to 
further describe whether this treatment regimen could decrease cell death in 
brain areas vulnerable to changes in cerebral blood flow, such as the 
hippocampus and medial septum. We hypothesized RSV treatments in a mouse model 
of gradual cerebral hypoperfusion protect against cognitive impairment. We 
utilized gradual bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (GBCCAS) via the 
surgical implantation of ameroid constrictor devices. RSV treatment was 
administered on the day of implantation and twice a week thereafter. Cerebral 
perfusion was measured by laser speckle contrast imaging, and cognitive 
functions, including the recognition memory, the spatial working memory, and 
associative learning, were assessed by novel object recognition (NOR), Y-maze 
testing, and contextual fear conditioning (CFC), respectively. RSV treatment did 
not alleviate cerebral perfusion deficits but mitigated cognitive deficits in 
CFC and NOR after GBCCAS. Despite these deficits, no hippocampal pathology was 
observed; however, cholinergic cell loss in the medial septum was significantly 
increased after GBCCAS. This cholinergic cell loss was mitigated by RSV. This 
study describes a novel mechanism by which chronic RSV treatments protect 
against a VCID-induced cognitive decline through the preservation of cholinergic 
cell viability to improve memory performance.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox13080984
PMCID: PMC11351397
PMID: 39199230

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


100. Antioxidants (Basel). 2024 Aug 6;13(8):951. doi: 10.3390/antiox13080951.

Ecklonia cava Ameliorates Cognitive Impairment on Amyloid β-Induced 
Neurotoxicity by Modulating Oxidative Stress and Synaptic Function in Institute 
of Cancer Research (ICR) Mice.

Lee HL(1), Go MJ(1), Lee HS(1), Heo HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21), Institute of Agriculture and Life 
Science, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 52828, Republic of Korea.

This study investigated the neuroprotective effect of 70% ethanol extract of 
Ecklonia cava (EE) in amyloid beta (Aβ)-induced cognitive deficit mice. As a 
result of analyzing the bioactive compounds in EE, nine compounds were 
identified using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole 
time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS). In particular, the diekcol 
content was quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography with 
diode-array detection (DAD-HPLC). Biochemical analysis was performed on brain 
tissue to determine the mechanism of the cognitive function improvement effect 
of EE. The result showed that EE ameliorated learning and memory decline in 
behavioral tests on Aβ-induced mice. EE also attenuated oxidative stress by 
regulating malondialdehyde (MDA) content, reduced glutathione (GSH), and 
superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels. Similarly, EE also improved mitochondrial 
dysfunction as mitochondrial membrane potential, ATP production, and reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) levels. In addition, EE enhanced synapse function by 
modulating acetylcholine-related enzymes and synaptic structural proteins in the 
whole brain, hippocampus, and cerebral cortex tissues. Also, EE regulated 
Aβ-induced apoptosis and inflammation through the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) 
and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathways. Furthermore, EE protected 
neurotoxicity by increasing brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) production. 
These results suggest that EE may be used as a dietary supplement for the 
prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD).

DOI: 10.3390/antiox13080951
PMCID: PMC11352165
PMID: 39199197

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.