1. JMIR Aging. 2025 May 5;8:e68890. doi: 10.2196/68890.

Online Communities as a Support System for Alzheimer Disease and Dementia Care: 
Large-Scale Exploratory Study.

Kaliappan S(1), Liu C(2), Jain Y(3), Karkar R(1), Saha K(3).

Author information:
(1)Manning College of Information & Computer Sciences, University of 
Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst, MA, United States.
(2)School of Information Sciences, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, 
Champaign, United States.
(3)Siebel School of Computing and Data Science, The Grainger College of 
Engineering, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, United States.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer disease (AD) is the leading type of dementia, demanding 
comprehensive understanding and intervention strategies. In the United States, 
where over 6 million people are impacted, the prevalence of AD and related 
dementias (AD/ADRD) presents a growing public health challenge. However, 
individuals living with AD/ADRD and their caregivers frequently express feelings 
of marginalization, describing interactions characterized by perceptions of 
patient infantilization and a lack of respect.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to address 2 key research questions (RQs). For RQ1, 
we investigated the needs and concerns expressed by participants in online 
social communities focused on AD/ADRD, specifically on 2 platforms-Reddit's 
r/Alzheimers and ALZConnected. For RQ2, we examined the prevalence and 
distribution of social support corresponding to these needs and concerns, and 
the association between these needs and received support.
METHODS: We collected 13,429 posts and comments from the r/Alzheimers subreddit 
spanning July 2014 to November 2023, and 90,113 posts and comments from 
ALZConnected between December 2020 (the community's earliest post) and November 
2023. We conducted topic modeling using latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA), 
followed by labeling to identify the major topical themes of discussions. We 
used transfer learning classifiers to identify the occurrences of emotional 
support (ES) and informational support (IS) in the comments (or responses) in 
the discussions. We built regression models to examine how various topical 
themes are associated with the kinds of support received.
RESULTS: Our analysis revealed a diverse range of topics reflecting community 
members' varying needs and concerns of individuals affected by AD/ADRD. These 
themes encapsulate the primary discussions within the online communities: memory 
care, nursing and caregiving, gratitude and acknowledgment, and legal and 
financial considerations. Our findings indicated a higher prevalence of IS 
compared to ES. Regression models revealed that ES primarily occurs in posts 
relating to nursing and caring, and IS primarily occurs in posts concerning 
medical conditions and diagnosis, legal and financial, and caregiving at home.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals that online communities dedicated to AD/ADRD 
support engage in discussions on a wide range of topics, such as memory care, 
nursing, caregiving, and legal and financial challenges. The findings shed light 
on the key pain points and concerns faced by individuals managing AD/ADRD in 
their households, revealing how they leverage online platforms for guidance and 
support. These insights underscore the need for targeted institutional and 
social interventions to address the specific needs of AD/ADRD patients, 
caregivers, and other family members.

©Sidharth Kaliappan, Chunyu Liu, Yoshee Jain, Ravi Karkar, Koustuv Saha. 
Originally published in JMIR Aging (https://aging.jmir.org), 05.05.2025.

DOI: 10.2196/68890
PMCID: PMC12089880
PMID: 40324770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


2. Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Basis Dis. 2025 Aug;1871(6):167892. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbadis.2025.167892. Epub 2025 May 3.

Exploring the cognitive impacts of diabetic neuropathy: a comprehensive review.

Mian M(1), Salehi F(1), Patel R(1), Tahiri J(2), Bel-Hadj-Kacem A(1), Alhaque 
A(1), Eldin R(3), Reddy PH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock 79430, TX, USA.
(2)School of Biology, Texas Tech University, Lubbock 79430, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University College of Dentistry, 
Dallas, TX 75246, USA.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock 79430, TX, USA; Nutritional Sciences Department, College Human 
Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX 79409, USA; Department of 
Pharmacology and Neuroscience, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 
Lubbock, TX 79430, USA; Department of Neurology, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA; Department of Public Health, Graduate 
School of Biomedical Sciences, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 
Lubbock, TX 79430, USA; Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences, 
Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA. Electronic 
address: hemachandra.reddy@ttuhsc.edu.

Diabetic neuropathy (DPN) is known to affect various aspects of health, 
including cognitive function. This study explores how DPN influences cognitive 
performance and examines the interplay between DPN, gender differences, 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD), and the socioeconomic burden of neuropathic pain. The 
research involved a comprehensive review and analysis of 55 studies focusing on 
cognitive function in diabetic patients with and without DPN. Various cognitive 
assessments, including memory, processing speed, and olfactory function, were 
used to evaluate cognitive performance. Gender differences were analyzed in the 
context of cognitive impairment and neuropathic pain. Additionally, the 
relationship between peripheral neuropathy and AD was investigated through 
measures of nerve conduction velocities and amyloid protein deposits. The impact 
of physical and psychological factors on neuropathic pain and cognitive function 
was also examined. The findings indicate that diabetic patients with DPN exhibit 
more severe cognitive impairments compared to those without DPN and healthy 
controls. Cognitive deficits were particularly notable in memory and processing 
speed. Gender differences revealed that women with DPN experience more 
pronounced cognitive dysfunction and a higher incidence of painful neuropathy 
compared to men. Analysis of peripheral nerve conduction velocities and amyloid 
deposits suggested a link between neuropathy and AD. Furthermore, poor glycemic 
control emerged as a critical factor affecting both neuropathy and cognitive 
function. Psychological distress and socioeconomic factors were found to 
significantly influence the management and outcomes of neuropathic pain. The 
study underscores the complex interaction between DPN and cognitive impairment, 
highlighting the importance of integrated diagnostic and therapeutic approaches. 
The pronounced cognitive deficits in women and the link between DPN and AD 
emphasize the need for gender-specific and multifaceted treatment strategies. 
The socioeconomic impact of neuropathic pain and the role of psychological 
factors in exacerbating pain and cognitive decline suggest that comprehensive 
management plans should address both physical and mental health aspects to 
improve overall patient outcomes.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2025.167892
PMID: 40324733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Authors 
declare that they do not have any conflict of interest.


3. Prog Neurobiol. 2025 Jul;250:102775. doi: 10.1016/j.pneurobio.2025.102775.
Epub  2025 May 3.

Temporal impact of sepsis on Alzheimer's disease pathology and 
neuroinflammation.

Vo Q(1), Nacionales DC(2), McFarland KN(3), Gorski C(1), Barrios EL(2), Park 
G(4), Moldawer LL(2), Casadesus G(5), Nagpal R(4), Efron PA(2), Chakrabarty 
P(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, 
USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA; 
Sepsis & Critical Illness Research Center, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
FL 32610, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.
(4)Department of Health, Nutrition and Food Sciences, Florida State University, 
Tallahassee, FL 32306, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL 32610, USA; Center for Translational Research in 
Neurodegenerative Disease, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA; 
McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, 
USA; Sepsis & Critical Illness Research Center, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL 32610, USA; Center for Translational Research in 
Neurodegenerative Disease, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA; 
McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA. 
Electronic address: pchakrabarty@ufl.edu.

Epidemiological evidence has revealed an associative link between sepsis 
survivorship and increased risk of dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Paradoxically, population studies show females are less susceptible to 
sepsis but more vulnerable to post-sepsis dementia. Here, we examined the 
temporal impacts of sepsis in the context of AD by using an AD-amyloidosis model 
(TgCRND8) and their wild-type littermates and assessing outcomes at 7 days and 3 
months post-sepsis in male and female mice. Following 7-days recovery, the 
microglia and astrocytes in AD-model mice were largely refractile to the 
systemic immune stimuli. Notably, the female AD-model mice accumulated higher 
hippocampal amyloid-beta (Aβ) burden and upregulated AD-type transcriptomic 
signature at this time. On the other hand, male AD-model mice showed no Aβ 
changes. At this time, the wild-type post-septic males, but not females, 
displayed robust astrocytosis, with nominal microgliosis. By 3 months 
post-sepsis, microgliosis was specifically elevated in wild-type females, 
indicating a prolonged central immune response. At this time, both male and 
female AD-model mice showed exacerbated Aβ and anxiety indices. Gene network 
analysis revealed a stronger immune response in females, while the male response 
was linked to estrogen receptor (ESR) signaling, with ERα protein upregulated in 
the brains of post-septic AD-model males. Together, our data highlights a 
sex-dimorphic temporal response in post-sepsis neuroinflammation, with ESR 
signaling playing a key role in males, while Aβ burden is affected similarly in 
both males and females.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pneurobio.2025.102775
PMCID: PMC12285756
PMID: 40324581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


4. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Jun;311(Pt 3):143725. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143725. Epub 2025 May 3.

Assessing amyloid fibrils and amorphous aggregates: A review.

Basha S(1), Mukunda DC(1), Pai AR(2), Mahato KK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, Manipal School of Life Sciences, Manipal Academy of 
Higher Education, Manipal 576104, Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Neurology, Kasturba Medical College Manipal, Manipal Academy of 
Higher Education, Manipal 576104, Karnataka, India.
(3)Department of Biophysics, Manipal School of Life Sciences, Manipal Academy of 
Higher Education, Manipal 576104, Karnataka, India. Electronic address: 
mahato.kk@manipal.edu.

Protein misfolding and aggregation play a central role in the progression of 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. These aggregates 
manifest either as structured amyloid fibrils enriched in β-sheet conformations 
or as irregular amorphous aggregates with diverse morphologies. Understanding 
their formation, structure, and behavior is critical for deciphering disease 
mechanisms and developing targeted diagnostics and therapeutics. This review 
presents an integrated overview of both conventional and advanced techniques 
used to detect, distinguish, and structurally characterize these protein 
aggregates. It covers a range of spectroscopic and spectrometric tools, such as 
fluorescence, Raman, and mass spectrometry that facilitate aggregate 
identification. Microscopy methods, including atomic force and electron 
microscopy, are highlighted for morphological analysis. The review also 
discusses in situ detection strategies using fluorescent dyes, 
conformation-specific antibodies, enzymatic reporters, and real-time imaging. 
Separation methods like centrifugation, electrophoresis, and chromatography are 
outlined alongside structural analysis tools such as X-ray diffraction. 
Furthermore, the growing utility of computational approaches and artificial 
intelligence in predicting aggregation propensities and integrating biological 
data is emphasized. By critically evaluating each method's capabilities and 
limitations, this review provides a practical and forward-looking resource for 
researchers studying the complex landscape of protein aggregation.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143725
PMID: 40324497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


5. Lancet. 2025 May 24;405(10492):1810-1812. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)00833-5. 
Epub 2025 May 2.

The regulatory rollercoaster continues-EMA refuses donanemab.

De Strooper B(1), Haass C(2), Hardy J(3), Zetterberg H(4).

Author information:
(1)VIB-KU Leuven Center for Brain and Disease Research, University of Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium; Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, University College 
London, London, UK.
(2)Ludwig-Maximilians Universität München & German Center for Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, Munich, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, University College London, London, 
UK.
(4)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, University College London, London, 
UK; Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Mölndal S-431 80, Sweden; University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WC, USA. 
Electronic address: henrik.zetterberg@clinchem.gu.se.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)00833-5
PMID: 40324447

Conflict of interest statement: BDS has performed consultancies for Roche, 
Eisai, EQTpartners, Remynd, Tactile, Earlybird, Sironax, Montis, and Abyssinia; 
and is a shareholder of Muna Tx. CH collaborates with Denali Therapeutics and is 
a member of the advisory boards of AviadoBio, Cure Ventures, and Curie.Bio. JH 
reports grant support from Eli Lilly, and consultancy fees from Eisai. HZ is 
supported by grants from the Swedish Research Council (grant numbers 2023-00356, 
2022-01018, and 2019-02397), EU's Horizon Europe Research and Innovation 
Programme (101053962), Swedish State Support for Clinical Research 
(ALFGBG-71320), Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation (201809-2016862), 
Alzheimer's Disease Strategic Fund and Alzheimer's Association 
(ADSF-21-831376-C, ADSF-21-831381-C, ADSF-21-831377-C, and ADSF-24-1284328-C), 
Bluefield Project, Cure Alzheimer's Fund, Olav Thon Foundation, Erling-Persson 
Family Foundation, Stiftelsen för Gamla Tjänarinnor, Hjärnfonden (FO2022-0270), 
EU's Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme under Marie Skłodowska-Curie 
(86019), EU Joint Programme—Neurodegenerative Disease Research (JPND2021-00694), 
National Institute for Health and Care Research at the University College London 
Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre, and UK Dementia Research Institute at 
University College London (UKDRI-1003); has served at scientific advisory boards 
or as a consultant for AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, 
Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given 
lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Eli 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD; is Chair of the Alzheimer's Association 
Global Biomarker Standardization Consortium and the IFCC WG-BND; and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB, which is a part of the 
GU Ventures Incubator Program.


6. Immunity. 2025 May 13;58(5):1120-1139. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2025.04.013. Epub
 2025 May 4.

Alzheimer's disease and age-related macular degeneration: Shared and distinct 
immune mechanisms.

Butovsky O(1), Rosenzweig N(2).

Author information:
(1)Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Gene Lay Institute of Immunology and 
Inflammation, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Massachusetts General Hospital and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
obutovsky@bwh.harvard.edu.
(2)Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
nrosenzweig@bwh.harvard.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) represent 
the leading causes of dementia and vision impairment in the elderly, 
respectively. The retina is an extension of the brain, yet these two central 
nervous system (CNS) compartments are often studied separately. Despite 
affecting cognition vs. vision, AD and AMD share neuroinflammatory pathways. By 
comparing these diseases, we can identify converging immune mechanisms and 
potential cross-applicable therapies. Here, we review immune mechanisms 
highlighting the shared and distinct aspects of these two age-related 
neurodegenerative conditions, focusing on responses to hallmark disease 
manifestations, the opposite role of overlapping immune risk loci, and potential 
unified therapeutic approaches. We also discuss unique tissue requirements that 
may dictate different outcomes of conserved immune mechanisms and how we can 
reciprocally utilize lessons from AD therapeutics to AMD. Looking forward, we 
suggest promising directions for research, including the exploration of 
regenerative medicine, gene therapies, and innovative diagnostics.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2025.04.013
PMID: 40324382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests O.B. is an inventor on 
patent no. 17/914,061 held by Brigham and Women’s Hospital and General 
Biophysics for using xenon to treat neurodegenerative diseases. O.B. is a 
co-founder of Glial Therapeutics and has an ownership interest. O.B. is 
financially interested in Glial Therapeutics, a company developing a new therapy 
to target ITGB8-TGFβ signaling as a treatment for Alzheimer’s and 
neurodegenerative diseases. O.B.’s interests were reviewed and managed by BWH 
and Mass General Brigham in accordance with their conflict-of-interest policies. 
O.B. collaborates with GSK and Regulus Therapeutics, has research funding from 
Sanofi and GSK, and consults for/has received honoraria from UCB, Camp4, Ono 
Pharma USA, and General Biophysics. O.B. and N.R. are inventors for a patent 
licensed by Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the University of California, San 
Francisco, for the use of an ITGB8 blocker for the treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases. N.R. is an inventor of the intellectual property 
that forms the basis for developing PD-L1 immunotherapy for AD.


7. J Labelled Comp Radiopharm. 2025 May;68(5-6):e4145. doi: 10.1002/jlcr.4145.

Synthesis of (18)F-Labeled FC-119S and Its Tosyl Precursor.

Kato K(1), Funasaka M(2), Ogura J(2), Minakawa EN(2), Seki K(2), Kumamoto T(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation Protection, National Institute of Neuroscience, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National 
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Synthetic Organic Chemistry, Graduate School of Biomedical and 
Health Sciences, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan.

Animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are essential for developing 
therapeutics and evaluating the efficacy of new drug candidates. Positron 
emission tomography (PET) is a useful method to monitor a major hallmark of the 
onset of AD, namely, the deposition of amyloid β peptide (Aβ) in the brain. 
[18F]FC-119S (1), a 2-pyridylbenzothiazole analog, has been applied as a 
radiotracer for PET visualization of Aβ plaques in an AD model, the 5xFAD mouse. 
Here, we present an alternative method for the automated synthesis of 
18F-labeled 1 as a radiotracer for our animal PET studies. The first attempt at 
synthesizing 18F-labeled 1 using a mesyl precursor afforded desired product 1, 
although a nonfluorinated mesyl byproduct was eluted prior to 1 during 
purification by semipreparative high-performance liquid chromatography. An 
alternative synthesis using a tosyl precursor was applied to delay the elution 
of a nonfluorinated byproduct during chromatographic purification. As a result, 
18F-labeled 1 was eluted without proximate byproducts during chromatographic 
purification, and routine production of 18F-labeled 1 was achieved for our AD 
studies using animal models.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jlcr.4145
PMID: 40323701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Tissue Eng Part B Rev. 2025 May 5. doi: 10.1089/ten.teb.2024.0353. Online
ahead  of print.

The Recent Applications of Stem Cell-Derived Exosomes and Hydrogels in 
Neurological Disorders.

Ajwad N(1), Mustapha M(2), Idris Z(2), Lee SY(1).

Author information:
(1)Regenerative Medicine Research Group, Department of Hematology, School of 
Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Kubang Kerian, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Neurosciences, School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains 
Malaysia, Kubang Kerian, Malaysia.

Neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and 
stroke pose significant challenges for conventional therapy due to the 
complexities of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the restricted delivery of 
drugs to the central nervous system. Exosomes, a type of small extracellular 
vesicle secreted by nearly all cell types, hold substantial promise as delivery 
vehicles for therapeutic agents in treating these conditions. Notably, stem 
cell-secreted exosomes have emerged as particularly effective due to their 
regenerative potential and natural ability to cross the BBB. Similarly, 
hydrogels have gained recognition as versatile biomaterials capable of 
supporting sustained release and targeted delivery of therapeutics. The 
combination of the regenerative properties of stem cell-derived exosomes 
(SC-Exos) with the structural and functional benefits of hydrogels offers a 
promising approach for enhancing neurogenesis, modulating neuroinflammation, and 
facilitating tissue repair. This review explores the origin, structure, and 
modifications of exosomes as well as the synthesis and incorporation methods of 
hydrogels in the therapeutic context for debilitating neurological disorders. It 
highlights recent advancements in using SC-Exos and hydrogels for therapeutic 
delivery, addressing both current challenges and future applications. Improving 
our understanding of hydrogels loaded with SC-Exos for cargo transportation and 
neural tissue regeneration may pave the way for novel therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1089/ten.teb.2024.0353
PMID: 40323680


9. Acta Neuropathol. 2025 May 5;149(1):46. doi: 10.1007/s00401-025-02884-5.

Oligodendroglia vulnerability in the human dorsal striatum in Parkinson's 
disease.

Barba-Reyes JM(1), Harder L(2), Marco Salas S(3)(4), Jaisa-Aad M(5)(6), 
Muñoz-Castro C(5)(6), Garma LD(2), Rafati N(7), Nilsson M(3), Hyman BT(5)(6), 
Serrano-Pozo A(5)(6), Muñoz-Manchado AB(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Cell Biology, Department of Neuroscience, Institute for Biomedical 
Research and Innovation of Cádiz (INiBICA), University of Cádiz, Cádiz, Spain.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and 
Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, 
Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Institute of Computational Biology, Computational Health Center, Helmholtz, 
Munich, Germany.
(5)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)National Bioinformatics Infrastructure Sweden, Science for Life Laboratory, 
Department of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology, Uppsala University, 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(8)Unit of Cell Biology, Department of Neuroscience, Institute for Biomedical 
Research and Innovation of Cádiz (INiBICA), University of Cádiz, Cádiz, Spain. 
ana.munoz@uca.es.
(9)Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and 
Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. ana.munoz@uca.es.
(10)Ciber of Mental Health (CIBERSAM), ISCIII, 28029, Madrid, Spain. 
ana.munoz@uca.es.

Oligodendroglia are the responsible cells for myelination in the central nervous 
system and their involvement in Parkinson's disease (PD) is poorly understood. 
We performed sn-RNA-seq and image-based spatial transcriptomics of human caudate 
nucleus and putamen (dorsal striatum) from PD and control brain donors to 
elucidate the diversity of oligodendroglia and how they are affected by the 
disease. We profiled a total of ~ 200.000 oligodendroglial nuclei, defining 15 
subclasses, from precursor to mature cells, 4 of which are disease-associated. 
These PD-specific populations are characterized by the overexpression of heat 
shock proteins, as well as distinct expression signatures related to immune 
responses, myelination alterations, and disrupted cell signaling pathways. We 
have also identified impairments in cell communication and oligodendrocyte 
development, evidenced by changes in neurotransmitter receptors expression and 
cell adhesion molecules. In addition, we observed significant disruptions in 
oligodendrocyte development, with aberrant differentiation trajectories and 
shifts in cell proportions, particularly in the transition from mature 
oligodendrocytes to disease-associated states. Quantitative immunohistochemical 
analysis revealed decreased myelin levels in the PD striatum, which correlated 
with transcriptomic alterations. Furthermore, spatial transcriptomics mapping 
revealed the distinct localization of disease-associated populations within the 
striatum, with evidence of impaired myelin integrity. Thus, we uncover 
oligodendroglia as a critical cell type in PD and a potential new therapeutic 
target for myelin-based interventions.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00401-025-02884-5
PMCID: PMC12053221
PMID: 40323467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: Dr. Hyman 
owns stock in Novartis; he serves on the SAB of Dewpoint and has an option for 
stock. He serves on a scientific advisory board or is a consultant for 
AbbVie,Alexion, Ambagon, Aprinoia Therapeutics, Arvinas, Avrobio, AstraZenica, 
Biogen, Bioinsights, BMS, Cure Alz Fund, Cell Signaling, Dewpoint, Latus, Merck, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, Sofinnova, Takeda, TD Cowen, Vigil, Violet, Voyager, 
WaveBreak. His laboratory is supported by research grants from the National 
Institutes of Health, Cure Alzheimer’s Fund, Tau Consortium, and the JPB 
Foundation—and a sponsored research agreement from Abbvie and Sanofi. He has a 
collaborative project with Biogen. Dr. Marco Salas is co-founder of spatialist 
AB, a spatial omics consulting company. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: The study does not include living human subjects. Samples were 
collected from autopsies and have been de-identified. Donors or their 
next-of-kin provided written informed consent for brain autopsy, and the study 
was approved by the review board of each brain bank.


10. Brain Commun. 2025 Apr 16;7(3):fcaf141. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf141. 
eCollection 2025.

Microglia positron emission tomography and progression in multiple sclerosis: 
thalamus on fire.

Zeydan B(1)(2), Neyal N(1), Son J(1), Schwarz CG(1), Kendall Thomas JC(1), 
Morrison HA(3), Bush ML(3), Reid RI(1), Przybelski SA(4), Fought AJ(4), Jack 
CR(1), Petersen RC(5), Kantarci K(1)(2), Lowe VJ(1), Airas L(6)(7), Kantarci 
OH(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(2)Women's Health Research Center, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(3)Center for Multiple Sclerosis and Autoimmune Neurology, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(4)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, 
USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(6)Turku PET Center and Division of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Turku, 
Turku 20521, Finland.
(7)Neurocenter, Turku University Hospital, Turku 20521, Finland.

Increased innate immune activity promotes neurodegeneration and contributes to 
progression in multiple sclerosis. This prospective case-control study aims to 
investigate thalamic microglia density on 18kDa translocator protein PET in 
patients with multiple sclerosis using a third-generation radioligand, 
11C-ER176, and investigate the associations of 11C-ER176 PET uptake with imaging 
and clinical measures of progression in multiple sclerosis. Patients with 
multiple sclerosis (n = 50) and controls (n = 55) were prospectively enrolled 
and they underwent 11C-ER176 PET and MRI including diffusion MRI with neurite 
orientation dispersion and density imaging. Disease characteristics, expanded 
disability status scale and multiple sclerosis functional composite scores were 
obtained in patients with multiple sclerosis. Age at imaging (mean ± standard 
deviation: patients = 49.6 ± 12.9 years, controls = 48.2 ± 15.4 years, P = 0.63) 
and sex (female ratio; patients = 72%, controls = 65%, P = 0.47) were not 
different between the groups. Thalamus 11C-ER176 PET uptake was highest in 
patients with progressive multiple sclerosis (1.272 ± 0.072 standardized uptake 
value ratio), followed by patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis (1.209 ± 
0.074 standardized uptake value ratio) and lowest in controls (1.162 ± 0.067 
standardized uptake value ratio, P < 0.001). Patients with thalamic lesions had 
higher thalamus 11C-ER176 PET uptake than those without thalamic lesions in both 
relapsing multiple sclerosis and progressive multiple sclerosis (P < 0.001). In 
patients with multiple sclerosis, higher thalamus 11C-ER176 PET uptake 
correlated with lower thalamic volume (r = -0.45, P = 0.001), higher mean 
diffusivity (r = 0.56, P < 0.001), lower neurite density index (r = -0.43, P = 
0.002), lower orientation dispersion index (r = -0.40, P = 0.005) and higher 
free water fraction (r = 0.42, P = 0.003) in the thalamus. In patients with 
multiple sclerosis, higher thalamus 11C-ER176 PET uptake also correlated with 
higher mean diffusivity (r = 0.47, P < 0.001) and lower neurite density index (r 
= -0.36, P = 0.012) in the corpus callosum. In patients with multiple sclerosis, 
higher thalamus 11C-ER176 PET uptake correlated with worse expanded disability 
status scale scores (r = 0.33, P = 0.02), paced auditory serial addition test 
scores (r = -0.43, P = 0.003) and multiple sclerosis functional composite 
z-scores (r = -0.46, P = 0.001). Microglia density in the thalamus is highest in 
patients with progressive multiple sclerosis and is associated with imaging 
biomarkers of neurodegeneration and clinical disease severity. As a signature 
imaging biomarker of progression in multiple sclerosis, effectively reflecting 
the global disease burden, 11C-ER176 PET may aid development and efficacy 
evaluation of therapeutics targeting microglia.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf141
PMCID: PMC12046125
PMID: 40322777

Conflict of interest statement: B.Z. receives research from the National 
Institutes of Health and received consensus panel honorarium from Merck, C.G.S. 
and C.R.J. receive research support from the National Institutes of Health. 
R.C.P. has served on the scientific advisory board of General Electric 
Healthcare. K.K. received research support from the National Institutes of 
Health, Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation, and from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals 
Eli Lilly. O.H.K. consults for Biogen. V.J.L. serves as a consultant for Bayer 
Schering Pharma, Piramal Life Sciences, Life Molecular Imaging, Eisai Inc., Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly and Company, PeerView Institute for Medical 
Education, and Merck Research and receives research support from GE Healthcare, 
Siemens Molecular Imaging, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, and the National 
Institutes of Health (National Institute of Aging, National Cancer Institute). 
L.A. has obtained institutional research support from Finnish Academy, United 
States National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Aatos Erkko Foundation, Sanofi 
Genzyme and Merck and compensation for lectures and advising from Novartis, 
Sanofi Genzyme, Merck, Kiniksa and Continuum Therapeutics. Other authors report 
no disclosures.


11. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Apr 18:rs.3.rs-6465973. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-6465973/v1.

Intramuscular delivery of recombinant AAV expressing EpoR76E improves memory and 
is neuroprotective in 5xFAD transgenics.

Killmar J(1), Xue Y(1), Wang R(1), Rex T(1), Khan M(1), Liao FF(1), McDonald 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee Health Science Center.

Converging evidence suggests that erythropoietin (Epo) may be effective in 
alleviating symptoms of many neurological conditions, including traumatic brain 
injury and neurodegenerative disorders. However, a limitation to its use as a 
therapeutic agent is the risk associated with stimulation of hematopoietic 
pathways. To overcome this issue, we used a recombinant adeno-associated viral 
vector (AAV) designed to express a modified form of erythropoietin devoid of 
hematopoietic activity, EpoR76E. Our previous research showed that AAV.EpoR76E 
prevented motor impairments and mitigated loss of dopaminergic neurons in the 
MPTP mouse model of Parkinson's disease. In the present study, a single 
intramuscular injection of AAV expressing EpoR76E prevented cognitive decline in 
the 5xFAD transgenic model of Alzheimer's disease. Consistent with this, 
AAV-EpoR76E prevented the age-related loss of pre-and post-synaptic proteins 
synaptophysin and PSD-95 normally seen in 5xFAD transgenics. Additionally, the 
treatment reduced soluble and aggregated amyloid-β levels in 5xFAD mice, and 
prevented the loss of neurons in the medial septum and vertical limb of the 
diagonal band, the primary cholinergic projections to the hippocampus. Together, 
these results suggest that AAV-EpoR76E might represent a novel therapeutic 
approach for Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6465973/v1
PMCID: PMC12047997
PMID: 40321747

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None of the authors has 
any conflict of interest or relationship, financial or otherwise, that might be 
perceived as influencing objectivity.


12. Dement Neurocogn Disord. 2025 Apr;24(2):91-101. doi:
10.12779/dnd.2025.24.2.91.  Epub 2025 Feb 19.

Reproducibility of Plasma Biomarker Measurements Across Laboratories: Insights 
Into ptau217, GFAP, and NfL.

Kang H(1), Woo SY(2), Shin D(1), Yim S(1), Lee EH(1), Ryu H(3), Chu B(3), 
Zetterberg H(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Blennow K(4)(5)(10)(11), Yun J(12), Na DL(13), 
Kim HJ(1)(14)(15)(16), Jang H(17), Kim JP(1); K-ROAD Study Groups.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Biomedical Statistics Center, Data Science Research Institute, Research 
Institute for Future Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(3)DNALINK Inc., Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(7)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(10)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(11)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, China.
(12)Department of Neurology, Soonchunhyang University Bucheon Hospital, Bucheon, 
Korea.
(13)Happymind Clinic, Seoul, Korea.
(14)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Seoul, Korea.
(15)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Seoul, Korea.
(16)Neuroscience Center, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(17)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Plasma biomarkers, including phosphorylated tau 
(ptau217), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and neurofilament light chain 
(NfL), are promising tools for detecting Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. 
However, cross-laboratory reproducibility remains a challenge, even when using 
identical analytical platforms such as single-molecule array (Simoa). This study 
aimed to compare plasma biomarker measurements (ptau217, GFAP, and NfL) between 
2 laboratories, the University of Gothenburg (UGOT) and DNAlink, and evaluate 
their associations with amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) imaging.
METHODS: Plasma biomarkers were measured using Simoa platforms at both 
laboratories: the UGOT and DNAlink Incorporation. Diagnostic performance for 
predicting amyloid PET positivity, cross-laboratory agreement, and the impact of 
normalization techniques were assessed. Bland-Altman plots and correlation 
analyses were employed to evaluate agreement and variability.
RESULTS: Plasma ptau217 concentrations exhibited strong correlations with 
amyloid PET global centiloid values, with comparable diagnostic performance 
between laboratories (area under the curve=0.94 for UGOT and 0.95 for DNAlink). 
Cross-laboratory agreement for ptau217 was excellent (r=0.96), improving further 
after natural log transformation. GFAP and NfL also demonstrated moderate to 
strong correlations (r=0.86 for GFAP and r=0.99 for NfL), with normalization 
reducing variability.
CONCLUSIONS: Plasma biomarker measurements were consistent across laboratories 
using identical Simoa platforms, with strong diagnostic performance and improved 
agreement after normalization. These findings support the scalability of plasma 
biomarkers for multi-center studies and underscore their potential for 
standardized applications in AD research and clinical practice.

© 2025 Korean Dementia Association.

DOI: 10.12779/dnd.2025.24.2.91
PMCID: PMC12046245
PMID: 40321441

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Henrik Zetterberg has 
served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, 
Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, 
AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, 
Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red 
Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, 
and Wave, has delivered lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche, and is a co-founder of 
Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). Kaj Blennow has served as a 
consultant and on advisory boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, 
BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Novartis, Ono Pharma, 
Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served on data 
monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has delivered lectures, 
produced educational materials, and participated in educational programs for AC 
Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper.


13. Dement Neurocogn Disord. 2025 Apr;24(2):75-90. doi:
10.12779/dnd.2025.24.2.75.  Epub 2025 Apr 8.

Protective Genes Against Alzheimer's Disease: Case Review and Therapeutic 
Implications.

Hossain N(1), Jeong Y(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bio and Brain Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science 
and Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, Korea.
(2)Program of Cognitive Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, Korea.
(3)KI for Health Science and Technology, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, Korea.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the 
accumulation of amyloid-beta plaques and tau tangles, shows cognitive decline. 
Recent genetic studies have identified over 30 variants that are resilient to AD 
pathology, offering new therapeutic opportunities. This review explores key 
protective mutations of APOE3 Christchurch, RELN-COLBOS, FN1, APP A673T, BDNF 
Val66Met, SORL1, CR1, TREM2, PICALM, and INPP5 D genes. These affect critical 
pathways, including lipid metabolism, synaptic function, tau regulation, and 
immune response. Potential treatments are discussed, including gene therapy and 
neuroprotective strategies, emphasizing a shift toward precision medicine 
focused on genetic resilience. By reviewing case studies and relevant 
literatures, the work explores the mechanisms by which these variants mitigate 
amyloid accumulation, tau pathology, neurodegeneration, and neuroinflammation, 
the key contributors to AD progression. Understanding these protective pathways 
offers critical insights into potential therapeutic applications, such as gene 
therapy, immune-modulating treatments, and personalized medicine approaches 
tailored to the individual's genetic profile. The findings highlight the 
potential to leverage genetic protection mechanisms to develop precision 
interventions for AD, offering new hope to prevent or delay disease onset and 
progression. These discoveries could transform future treatment strategies, 
shifting the focus from risk management to exploiting genetic resilience to 
combat AD.

© 2025 Korean Dementia Association.

DOI: 10.12779/dnd.2025.24.2.75
PMCID: PMC12046246
PMID: 40321438

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have no 
financial conflicts of interest.


14. Dement Neurocogn Disord. 2025 Apr;24(2):135-146. doi: 
10.12779/dnd.2025.24.2.135. Epub 2025 Apr 9.

Establishing Regional Aβ Cutoffs and Exploring Subgroup Prevalence Across 
Cognitive Stages Using BeauBrain Amylo(®).

Park S(1), Kim K(2), Yoon S(2), Kim S(2), Ahn J(2), Lim KY(1), Jang H(3), Na 
DL(1)(4), Kim HJ(2)(5)(6)(7)(8), Moon SH(9), Kim JP(5), Seo SW(2)(5)(6)(7)(8), 
Kim J(10), Kwak K(1).

Author information:
(1)BeauBrain Healthcare, Inc., Seoul, Korea.
(2)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Happymind Clinic, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Seoul, Korea.
(7)Department of Intelligent Precision Healthcare Convergence, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Suwon, Korea.
(8)Department of Digital Health, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, Korea.
(9)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan 
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(10)Department of Neurology, Dongtan Sacred Heart Hospital, Hallym University 
College of Medicine, Hwaseong, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques are key in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), with Aβ positron emission tomography imaging enabling non-invasive 
quantification. To address regional Aβ deposition, we developed regional 
Centiloid scales (rdcCL) and commercialized them through the computed tomography 
(CT)-based BeauBrain Amylo platform, eliminating the need for three-dimensional 
T1 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to establish robust regional Aβ cutoffs using the 
commercialized BeauBrain Amylo platform and to explore the prevalence of 
subgroups defined by global, regional, and striatal Aβ cutoffs across cognitive 
stages.
METHODS: We included 2,428 individuals recruited from the Korea-Registries to 
Overcome Dementia and Accelerate Dementia Research project. We calculated 
regional Aβ cutoffs using Gaussian Mixture Modeling. Participants were 
classified into subgroups based on global, regional, and striatal Aβ positivity 
across cognitive stages (cognitively unimpaired [CU], mild cognitive impairment, 
and dementia of the Alzheimer's type).
RESULTS: MRI-based and CT-based global Aβ cutoffs were highly comparable and 
consistent with previously reported Centiloid values. Regional cutoffs revealed 
both similarities and differences between MRI- and CT-based methods, reflecting 
modality-specific segmentation processes. Subgroups such as global(-)regional(+) 
were more frequent in non-dementia stages, while global(+)striatal(-) was 
primarily observed in CU individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study established robust regional Aβ cutoffs using a CT-based 
rdcCL method and demonstrated its clinical utility in classifying amyloid 
subgroups across cognitive stages. These findings highlight the importance of 
regional Aβ quantification in understanding amyloid pathology and its 
implications for biomarker-guided diagnosis and treatment in AD.

© 2025 Korean Dementia Association.

DOI: 10.12779/dnd.2025.24.2.135
PMCID: PMC12046247
PMID: 40321436

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have no 
financial conflicts of interest.


15. Brain. 2025 Sep 3;148(9):3364-3378. doi: 10.1093/brain/awaf167.

Altered T-cell reactivity in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease.

Rickenbach C(1), Mallone A(2), Häusle L(1)(2), Frei L(1), Seiter S(1), Sparano 
C(3), Kirabali T(1), Blennow K(4)(5)(6)(7), Zetterberg H(4)(5)(8)(9)(10)(11), 
Ferretti MT(12), Kulic L(13), Hock C(1)(14)(15), Nitsch RM(1)(15), Treyer 
V(1)(14)(16), Gietl A(1)(14)(17), Gericke C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Regenerative Medicine-IREM, University of Zurich, 8952 
Schlieren, Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Microbiology, ETH Zurich, 8049 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Institute of Experimental Immunology, University of Zurich, 8057 Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, S-43180 Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, S-43180 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(6)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
75013 Paris, France.
(7)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, 230026 Hefei, China.
(8)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London WC1N 3BG, UK.
(10)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(11)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI 53792, USA.
(12)Center for Alzheimer Research, Karolinska Institute, S-17177 Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(13)Roche Pharma Research and Early Development, Roche, 4070 Basel, Switzerland.
(14)Center for Prevention and Dementia Therapy, University of Zurich, 8952 
Schlieren, Switzerland.
(15)Neurimmune AG, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland.
(16)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Zurich, 8091 Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(17)Psychiatric University Hospital Zurich (PUK), 8008 Zurich, Switzerland.

The adaptive immune system and neurodegenerative Alzheimer's disease (AD) are 
intertwined in multiple ways. Recent studies have reported alterations of the 
adaptive immune system in early AD stages, such as preclinical AD and mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD. However, the identity of specific 
antigenic targets and whether the respective response is beneficial or 
detrimental during disease progression are still open questions. Herein, we 
describe cross-sectional analyses of blood and CSF from three different study 
populations covering early AD stages. We employed high-dimensional mass 
cytometry, single-cell RNA-sequencing, ex vivo T-cell secretome analysis, and 
antigen presentation assays to achieve a comprehensive characterization of 
adaptive immune cell populations. Our results show that subjects at the stage of 
asymptomatic, preclinical AD can mount a CD4+ T helper cell response towards 
amyloid-β peptide and display an early enrichment of CD8+ T effector memory 
cells re-expressing CD45RA (TEMRA cells) in CSF, combined with a less 
immunosuppressive gene signature of peripheral regulatory T cells. Conversely, 
in MCI we observed increased frequencies of CD8+ TEMRA/effector cells in the 
periphery characterized by a pro-inflammatory gene expression profile, and 
generally decreased antigen responsiveness. Our results demonstrate the 
complexity of adaptive immune changes in early AD and suggest that it may be 
beneficial to promote specific CD4+ T-cell responses in the preclinical stage, 
while in MCI it may be important to therapeutically target CD8+ T-cell responses 
if these prove to be harmful.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awaf167
PMCID: PMC12404719
PMID: 40320887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: T.K. is currently an employee of Charles River 
Associates, Switzerland; K.B. has served as a consultant and at advisory boards 
for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac 
Pte. Ltd, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and 
Siemens Healthineers. He has served at data monitoring committees for Julius 
Clinical and Novartis. He has given lectures, produced educational materials and 
participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, 
Eisai and Roche Diagnostics. He is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, 
outside the work presented in this paper; M.T.F is the cofounder of the Women's 
Brain Project. In the past 2 years, she has received consulting and speaker fees 
from Roche and Lilly, unrelated to this project. She is currently an employee of 
Syntropic Medical, Vienna, Austria; L.K. is an employee of Roche, Switzerland; 
C.H. and R.M.N. are employees and shareholders of Neurimmune AG, Switzerland; 
Within the past 5 years A.G. has served at advisory boards for Biogen, Eli 
Lilly, Eisai and participated in clinical trials or research/project 
collaborations with Biogen, Neurimmune, Schwabe Pharma. He received speaker fees 
by Eli Lilly and OM-Pharma.


16. Brain Behav. 2025 May;15(5):e70436. doi: 10.1002/brb3.70436.

The Soluble Platelet-Derived Growth Factor β Receptor Induces Postoperative 
Delirium by Downregulating the Clearance of β-Amyloid in the Brain.

Guo Z(1), Zhang C(2), Wang X(1), Chen W(1), Guo Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Anesthesiology Department, Hai 'an People's Hospital Affiliated to Nantong 
University, Hai'an, China.
(2)Central Laboratory, Hai 'an People's Hospital Affiliated to Nantong 
University, Hai'an, China.
(3)Department of Orthopaedics Surgery, Hai 'an People's Hospital Affiliated to 
Nantong University, Hai'an, China.

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between soluble platelet-derived growth 
factor β receptor (sPDGFRβ) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) biomarkers, to determine whether high CSF sPDGGFRβ is a potential risk 
factor for postoperative delirium (POD), and to evaluate its predictive effect, 
so as to provide reference for clinical prevention and treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: CSF samples were collected preoperatively from cognitively 
normal participants aged 50-90 years undergoing knee/hip replacement surgery 
under spinal-epidural anesthesia. The concentrations of sPDGFRβ, β-amyloid 42 
(Aβ42), total tau protein (Ttau), and phosphorylated tau protein (Ptau) in CSF 
were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The confusion 
assessment method (CAM) was used to evaluate whether participants developed POD 
after surgery, and they were divided into the POD group and non-POD group 
(NPOD). The relationship between CSF sPDGFRβ, AD biomarkers, and POD was 
analyzed.
RESULTS: The level of sPDGFRβ, a marker of brain pericyte injury, was 
significantly increased in POD patients (p < 0.05), and the difference was still 
statistically significant after adjusting for multiple confounders (p < 0.05). 
CSF Aβ42 showed a significant mediating effect between CSF sPDGFRβ level and POD 
(22.45%). The combination of AD biomarkers and CSF sPDGFRβ predicted POD better 
than that of AD biomarkers or CSF sPDGFRβ alone.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that the increase in CSF sPDGFRβ is associated 
with an increased risk of POD due to the blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction 
and reduced Aβ42 clearance. In this study, the correlation between CSF sPDGFRβ 
and POD was investigated for the first time, providing a new reference index for 
POD prediction. However, this paper did not study other relevant indicators of 
the BBB and lacked follow-up, which could be further improved in the future.

© 2025 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.70436
PMCID: PMC12050409
PMID: 40320869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


17. J Neuropsychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2025 May 5:appineuropsych20240191. doi: 
10.1176/appi.neuropsych.20240191. Online ahead of print.

Antiamyloid Monoclonal Antibodies in Alzheimer's Disease, Part 1: Patient 
Selection.

Bateman JR(1), Carlisle TC(1), Yang Y(1), Lachner C(1), Stockbridge MD(1), 
Flashman LA(1), Chemali Z(1), Alzbeidi N(1), Pressman PS(1), Osibajo AM(1), 
Bobrin BD(1), Martinez-Menendez CJ(1), Teixeira AL(1), Daffner KR(1); American 
Neuropsychiatric Association Dementia Special Interest Group(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Atrium 
Health Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center, Winston-Salem, N.C. (Bateman, 
Flashman); Department of Neurology, Behavioral Neurology Section, University of 
Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora (Carlisle, Pressman); Department of 
Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, and 
Department of Neurology, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, New York City (Yang); 
Departments of Neurology and Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, 
Jacksonville, Fla. (Lachner); Department of Neurology, Cerebrovascular Division, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore (Stockbridge); Department 
of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston 
(Chemali); Sakina Mental Health Services, SEHA, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 
(Alzbeidi); Department of Psychiatry, Atlantic Health System-Overlook Medical 
Center, Summit, N.J., and Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York City (Osibajo); Lower Merion Counseling Services, Lower 
Merion, Pa. (Bobrin); Department of Neurology, University of Texas Health Rio 
Grande Valley, Harlingen (Martinez-Menendez); Department of Neurology, Glenn 
Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of 
Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio (Teixeira); Department 
of Neurology, Division of Cognitive and Behavioral Neurology, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston (Daffner).

The availability of monoclonal antibodies directed against amyloid beta, for use 
as disease-modifying therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD), represented a major 
shift in the field of AD research and treatment. U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration approvals for the monoclonal antibody-based medications lecanemab 
and, more recently, donanemab provide clinicians with two antiamyloid therapy 
(AAT) options for targeting early symptomatic AD. The emergence of AAT has made 
careful biomarker-informed diagnosis of AD paramount, which was once reserved 
for highly specialized centers and research settings. Patient selection is 
complex, and although appropriate-use recommendations have been published, 
clinicians caring for patients with AD across the United States face uncertainty 
when trying to align clinical trial criteria, appropriate-use recommendations, 
and real-world patients in the clinic. Practical issues in patient selection as 
well as health care and systemic challenges in the implementation of AAT are 
considered in part 1 and part 2, respectively, of this two-part Treatment in 
Behavioral Neurology & Neuropsychiatry commentary on these therapies from the 
American Neuropsychiatric Association Dementia Special Interest Group.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.neuropsych.20240191
PMCID: PMC12407021
PMID: 40320852

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Bateman reports receiving honoraria from 
Efficient CME, Novo Nordisk, PeerView Institute, and Spear Bio and grant support 
from the Alzheimer’s Association and the Dementia Alliance of North Carolina. 
Dr. Lachner reports receiving honoraria from PeerView Institute. Dr. Pressman 
reports receiving grant funding from AB Nexus Research Collaboration and the 
Doris Duke Fund to Retain Clinician Scientists. Dr. Teixeira reports receiving 
research funding from the Texas Alzheimer’s Research and Care Consortium; 
serving as a consultant for Lundbeck; and receiving royalties from Ampla, Oxford 
University Press, and Springer. Dr. Daffner reports receiving support from the 
Alzheimer’s Association for serving as a cochair of the Alzheimer’s Network for 
Treatment and Diagnostics. The other authors report no financial relationships 
with commercial interests.


18. Biotechnol Appl Biochem. 2025 May 4:e2780. doi: 10.1002/bab.2780. Online
ahead  of print.

Novel Sulfonylhydrazones With Sulfonate Ester Framework: Promising Dual 
Inhibitors of AChE and hCAs.

Öztürk C(1), Balci N(2), Aslan ON(3), Kalay E(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science, Department of Chemistry, Atatürk University, Erzurum, 
Turkey.
(2)Siran Dursun Keles Vocational School of Health Services, Gümüshane 
University, Gümüshane, Turkey.
(3)East Anatolian High Technology Application and Research Center, Atatürk 
University, Erzurum, Turkey.
(4)Kars Vocational School, Department of Material and Material Processing 
Technologies, Kafkas University, Kars, Turkey.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that 
affects millions of individuals worldwide. Treatment strategies for AD vary 
depending on cognitive and behavioral symptoms, with cholinergic replacement 
therapy using acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors being one of the primary 
approaches. Recent studies have also identified human carbonic anhydrases (hCAs) 
as significant therapeutic targets for AD, offering new opportunities for the 
development of innovative treatments. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors have been 
shown to prevent early mitochondrial damage and inhibit H2O2 production, thereby 
reducing amyloid plaque formation. Building on the promising potential of 
hydrazones particularly sulfonyl hydrazones as anticholinesterase agents, we 
synthesized 12 novel chlorine-substituted sulfonyl hydrazone compounds 
containing aryl sulfonate ester groups. These compounds were evaluated for their 
inhibitory effects on AChE, hCA I, and hCA II enzymes. The synthesized compounds 
exhibited low nanomolar inhibitory activity, with Ki values ranging from 
9.58 ± 2.22 to 104.04 ± 23.82 nM for AChE, 9.12 ± 2.21 to 477.63 ± 218.52 nM for 
hCA I, and 17.54 ± 7.74 to 564.62 ± 213.98 nM for hCA II. Notably, compound 6 
showed strong inhibitory activity against hCA I (Ki = 9.12 ± 2.21 nM; 
acetazolamide (AZA) = 26.54 ± 3.11 nM) and hCA II (Ki = 17.54 ± 7.74 nM; 
AZA = 21.73 ± 2.42 nM), whereas compound 4 exhibited superior AChE inhibition 
(Ki = 9.58 ± 2.22 nM; TAC = 23.12 ± 2.05 nM). The chemical structures of the 
synthesized compounds were characterized using advanced spectroscopic 
techniques, including FT-IR, 1H-NMR, and 13C-NMR spectroscopy.

© 2025 The Author(s). Biotechnology and Applied Biochemistry published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/bab.2780
PMID: 40320825


19. Mol Nutr Food Res. 2025 Sep;69(18):e70071. doi: 10.1002/mnfr.70071. Epub 2025
 May 4.

Simulated Digestion and Fermentation of Polyphenols From Sargassum wightii Acts 
as Potential Modulator of Alzheimer's Disease.

Gade A(1), Kumar MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Somaiya Institute for Research and Consultancy, Somaiya Vidyavihar 
University, Vidyavihar (East), Mumbai, India.

The human gut microbiota regulates various aspects of Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathophysiology, influencing neuroinflammation and metabolic homeostasis. 
Dietary polyphenols, specifically phlorotannins from brown macroalgae, are known 
to mitigate AD's pathological effects due to their ability to pass through the 
blood-brain barrier. Marine polyphenols extracted from Sargassum wightii were 
processed through simulated gastrointestinal digestion and in vitro 
fermentation. Characterization was performed using ultraviolet (UV), Fourier 
transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), HPLC, and liquid chromatography-mass 
spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) both before and after 
biotransformation. We evaluated their metal chelation capacity (Cu2⁺ and Fe2⁺) 
and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activity using colorimetric assays. 
Additionally, the antioxidant capacity of the polyphenol extract was evaluated 
before and upon fermentation using 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), 
2,2'-azinobis-3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS), and ferric reducing 
antioxidant potential (FRAP) assays. The extraction yield of polyphenols from S. 
wightii was 2.67 ± 0.27 mg PGE/g of macroalgae. In vitro biotransformation of 
these polyphenols resulted in the formation of various low-molecular weight 
(LMW) compounds with enhanced metal chelation and AChE inhibition activities. 
Additionally, a substantial rise in antioxidant activity was observed 
postbiotransformation. S. wightii polyphenols become more effective after 
biotransformation, with enhanced bioactive properties and promising for use in 
diets to prevent and manage AD.

© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/mnfr.70071
PMID: 40320786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(1):47-50. doi: 10.1177/13872877251337775. Epub
 2025 May 4.

The emerging role of the circadian rhythm in the blood-brain barrier dysfunction 
associated with cerebral small vessel disease.

Hattori Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center, Osaka, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Preemptive Medicine for Dementia, National Cerebral and 
Cardiovascular Center, Osaka, Japan.

The relationship between circadian rhythm and cerebrovascular disease has 
recently emerged as a fascinating area of research. It has been found that the 
circadian rhythm could affect the development and exacerbation of cerebral small 
vessel disease (CSVD). Dysfunction of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is one of 
the key players in the mechanisms of CSVD. This is thought to be regulated by 
circadian oscillations of clock genes, which control transporter function, 
regulating the permeability of the BBB endothelial cells, tight junction 
proteins, and pericytes. Understanding the interaction between circadian genes 
and BBB components may contribute to the development of promising treatments for 
CSVD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251337775
PMID: 40320784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe author 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


21. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;105(3):966-976. doi: 10.1177/13872877251333707.
Epub  2025 May 4.

DNA methylation age acceleration is associated with incident cognitive 
impairment in the health and retirement study.

Blostein F(1), Bakulski KM(1), Fu M(2), Wang H(1), Zawistowski M(3), Ware EB(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Informatics, University of California, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(4)Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Sep 22:2024.09.19.24314012. doi: 10.1101/2024.09.19.24314012.

BackgroundDNA methylation clocks have emerged as promising biomarkers for 
cognitive impairment and dementia. Longitudinal studies exploring the 
association between DNA methylation clocks and cognitive decline have been 
constrained by limited sample sizes and a lack of diversity.ObjectiveOur study 
aimed to investigate associations between DNA methylation clocks and incident 
cognitive impairment using a larger and US nationally-representative sample from 
the Health and Retirement Study.MethodsWe measured DNA methylation age 
acceleration in 2016 by regressing the DNA methylation clocks, including 
GrimAge, against chronological age. Cognitive change over time was determined by 
Langa-Weir cognition status from 2016 to 2018. Multivariable logistic regression 
evaluated the association between DNA methylation age acceleration and cognitive 
change, adjusting for cell-type proportions, demographic, and health factors. We 
also applied inverse probability weighting to address potential selection bias 
from varying loss-to-follow-up rates.ResultsThe analytic sample (N = 2713) was 
54% female, 8.4% Black/African American, 86% White, 7.5% Hispanic, and 68 years 
old at baseline. During the two years of follow-up, 12% experienced cognitive 
change and had higher baseline GrimAge (mean = 1.2 years) acceleration compared 
to those maintaining normal cognition (mean = -0.8 years). A one-year increase 
in GrimAge acceleration was associated with 1.05 times higher adjusted and 
survey-weighted odds of cognitive change during follow-up (95% CI: 1.01-1.10). 
This association was consistent after accounting for loss-to-follow-up 
(OR = 1.07, 95% CI: 1.04-1.11).ConclusionsOur study offers insights into DNA 
methylation age acceleration associated with cognitive change over time, 
suggesting avenues for improved prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251333707
PMID: 40320783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


22. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(1):184-196. doi: 10.1177/13872877251339774.
Epub  2025 May 4.

Investigating the effects of 40 Hz sound stimulation on Alzheimer's disease 
pathways: Modulation of amyloid-β42 secretion, tau phosphorylation, 
phagocytosis, and autophagy.

Yang YH(1)(2)(3)(4), Chang HW(5), Chien CF(1)(4), Hour TC(3)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung.
(2)School of Post-Baccalaureate Medicine, College of Medicine Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung.
(3)Neuroscience Research Center, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung.
(4)Department of Neurology, Kaohsiung Medical University Gangshan Hospital, 
Kaohsiung.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung.
(6)Department of Medical Research, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, 
Kaohsiung.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is the main cause of dementia in an aging 
society. Previous studies have demonstrated that non-invasive light flicker and 
sound with gamma frequency oscillations can modulate AD-related pathology in AD 
mice, potentially improving patient outcomes. However, the molecular mechanism 
by which sound with gamma frequency oscillations inhibits the expression of 
amyloid-β1-42 (Aβ42) and the phosphorylation of tau, and modulating cell 
autophagy in nerve cells are still unclear.ObjectiveThis study aimed to explore 
the molecular effects of 40 Hz sound stimulation on AD-related pathways in a 
cellular model.MethodsWe designed a 40 Hz stimulating sound (H+ multi-frequency 
audio) for this study, and cells were exposed to H+ multi-frequency audio. The 
concentration of Aβ42 was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. 
Protein levels were examined by western blotting. Phagocytosis was examined by 
confocal microscopy and phagocytic analysis.ResultsFirst, we found that exposure 
to the 40 Hz stimulating sound inhibited the secretion of Aβ42 by activating the 
AβPP/ADAM10 pathway and suppressing the AβPP/BACE1 pathway. Second, 40 Hz 
stimulating sound inhibited tau phosphorylation at Thr181 through the 
inactivation of the Akt/mTOR pathway. Third, 40 Hz stimulating sound enhanced 
the phagocytosis and autophagy of Aβ42 through the AMPK/ULK/LC3B pathway in 
cells.ConclusionsOur study showed that 40 Hz stimulating sound is involved in 
the inhibition of Aβ42 secretion, p-Tau protein expression, and the promotion of 
phagocytosis and Aβ42 autophagy in cells. We suggest that 40 Hz stimulating 
sound could be a potential intervention to attenuate AD progression in the 
future.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251339774
PMID: 40320777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


23. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;105(4):1069-1084. doi: 10.1177/13872877251336482. 
Epub 2025 May 4.

Use of posterior probabilities from a long short-term memory network for 
characterizing dance behavior with multiple accelerometers.

McCullough AK(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for the Scientific Study of Dance, Center for Cognitive & Brain 
Health, Northeastern University Boston, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, Movement & Rehabilitation Sciences, Bouvé 
College of Health Sciences, Northeastern University Boston, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Music, College of Art, Media & Design, Northeastern University 
Boston, Boston, MA, USA.

BackgroundDancing may be protective for cognitive health among adults with mild 
cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease or dementia; however, additional 
methods are needed to characterize motor behavior quality in studies of 
dance.ObjectiveTo determine how long each of a range of motor behaviors should 
be observed to optimize the reliability of "dance-like state" (DLS) scores-a 
novel metric for characterizing motor behavior quality in reference to free-form 
dancing using accelerometry.MethodsAdults (n = 41) wore five triaxial 
accelerometers (on both wrists, both ankles, and the waist) while engaged in 
sitting, standing, walking, and free-form dancing in a laboratory. Accelerometer 
data were used as predictors in a long short-term memory (LSTM) network, where 
the target was the binary coded observed behavior (dancing/not dancing) over 
time. LSTM accuracy was evaluated, and the Spearman-Brown (SB) Prophecy formula 
was used to determine the number of 1-min observational periods required to 
reach sufficient reliability (r ≥ 0.80) when using DLS scores.ResultsThe LSTM 
network trained with accelerometer data that were collected using all five 
devices showed very good to excellent classification accuracy (95% confidence 
interval: 89.1% to 94.0%) in the task of recognizing free-form dance behavior. 
SB results showed LSTM-generated posterior probabilities are reliable (r > 0.80) 
when averaged over ≥2 min periods. DLS scores were significantly correlated with 
age, prior dance training, height, body mass, music tempo and mode, gait speed, 
and energy expenditure.ConclusionsDLS scores can be used to characterize motor 
behavior quality. Additional research on motor behavior quality in relation to 
cognitive health is needed.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251336482
PMCID: PMC12173766
PMID: 40320775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe author 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


24. Autophagy. 2025 May 4:1-17. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2025.2463322. Online ahead
of  print.

PINK1-dependent NFKB signaling contributes to amyloid pathology in Alzheimer 
disease.

Du F(1), Yu Q(1), Hu G(2), Lin CS(3), ShiDu Yan S(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Higuchi Bioscience Center, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, USA.
(3)Herber Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbia University Vagelos 
College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Molecular Pharmacology & Therapeutics, Columbia University Vagelos College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY, USA.

Mitochondrial dysfunction plays a preponderant role in the development of 
Alzheimer disease (AD). We have demonstrated that activation of PINK1 (PTEN 
induced kinase 1)-dependent mitophagy ameliorates amyloid pathology, attenuates 
mitochondrial and synaptic dysfunction, and improves cognitive function. 
However, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Using a newly 
generated PINK1-AD transgenic mouse model and AD neuronal cell lines, we provide 
substantial evidence supporting the contribution of PINK1-mediated mitochondrial 
ROS (reactive oxygen species) and NFKB/NF-κB (nuclear factor kappa B) signaling 
to altering APP (amyloid beta precursor protein) processing and Aβ metabolism. 
Enhancing neuronal PINK1 is sufficient to suppress Aβ-induced activation of NFKB 
signal transduction in PINK1-overexpressed Aβ-AD mice and Aβ-producing neurons. 
Blocking PINK1-mediated NFKB activation inhibits activities of BACE1 
(beta-secretase 1) and γ-secretase, which are key enzymes for cleavage of APP 
processing to produce Aβ. Conversely, loss or knockdown of PINK1 produces 
excessive ROS, along with increased phosphorylated NFKB1/p50 and RELA/p65 
subunits, APP-related BACE1 and γ-secretase, and Aβ accumulation. Importantly, 
these detrimental effects were robustly blocked by the addition of scavenging 
PINK1 Aβ-induced mitochondrial ROS, leading to the suppression of NFKB 
activation, restoration of normal APP processing, and limitation of Aβ 
accumulation. Thus, our findings highlight a novel mechanism underlying 
PINK1-mediated modulation of Aβ metabolism via a ROS-NFKB-APP processing nexus. 
Activation of PINK1 signaling could be a potential therapeutic avenue for the 
early stages of AD by combining improving mitochondrial quality control with 
limiting amyloid pathology in AD.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2025.2463322
PMID: 40320714


25. Cerebellum. 2025 May 5;24(4):94. doi: 10.1007/s12311-025-01840-z.

The Cerebellar Neuropsychiatric Rating Scale in the Spinocerebellar Ataxias.

Burt AL(1), Daly MP(2), Sherman JC(3), Schmahmann JD(4); CRC-SCA.

Collaborators: Perlman SL, Rosenthal LS, Kuo SH, Ashizawa T, Zesiewicz T, 
Dietiker C, Opal P, Duquette A, Wilmot GR, Shakkottai VG, Gomez CM, Srinivasan 
SR, Geschwind MD, Worley S, Billnitzer A, Ferng A, Matulis K, Davis MY, 
Subramony SH, Gupta AS, Stephen CD.

Author information:
(1)Ataxia Center, Laboratory for Neuroanatomy and Cerebellar Neurobiology, 
Division of Behavioral Neurology & Integrated Brain Health, Department of 
Neurology, Mass General Brigham and Harvard Medical School, MGH Ataxia Center, 
101 Merrimac Street, Suite 310, Boston, MA, 02114, USA.
(2)Mesulam Center for Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease, Northwestern 
University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Psychology Assessment Center, Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Ataxia Center, Laboratory for Neuroanatomy and Cerebellar Neurobiology, 
Division of Behavioral Neurology & Integrated Brain Health, Department of 
Neurology, Mass General Brigham and Harvard Medical School, MGH Ataxia Center, 
101 Merrimac Street, Suite 310, Boston, MA, 02114, USA. 
jschmahmann@mgh.harvard.edu.

There is currently no established screening instrument that detects 
neuropsychiatric features in individuals with cerebellar ataxia. We hypothesized 
that the Cerebellar Neuropsychiatric Rating Scale (CNRS) would capture the 
neuropsychiatry of patients enrolled in the natural history study of the 
Clinical Research Consortium for the Study of Cerebellar Ataxia, and provide 
novel insights not revealed by other measures. We studied CNRS data in 362 
patients with spinocerebellar ataxia types 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, and 27B, and 
cerebellar ataxia, neuropathy, vestibular areflexia syndrome (CANVAS). We 
grouped patients by mild, moderate, and severe disease severity according to 
Friedreich Ataxia Rating Scale (FARS) functional stage. We analyzed scores on 
the CNRS and its five constituent domains for the entire cohort and by severity 
subgroup. We fit a mixed effects model to examine the effect of severity. We 
analyzed correlations with other clinical measures: Cerebellar Cognitive 
Affective / Schmahmann Syndrome Scale (CCAS-S), Patient-Reported Outcome Measure 
of Ataxia (PROM-Ataxia), Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), Euro-Qol 
5-Dimension (EQ-5D), and Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS). The CNRS detected 
neuropsychiatric symptoms, with highest scores on Attentional and Emotional 
Control domains. The mixed effects model revealed that ataxia severity 
influences scores, with mean scores increasing with ataxia severity. The CNRS 
correlated with the PROM-Ataxia Mental domain, particularly between Emotional 
Control and section 1 (psychiatric) items. Emotional Control also correlated 
with PHQ-9 and EQ-5D. Correlations with the CCAS-S Affect and FSS were weak. The 
CNRS provides novel neuropsychiatric insights into spinocerebellar ataxia that 
are missed by other measures.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12311-025-01840-z
PMID: 40320465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: This study was 
approved by the Mass General Brigham Institutional Review Board (IRB). Conflict 
of interests: Dr. Duquette: Received consultancy honoraria from AavantiBio, 
Biogen, Novartis, Pfizer, PTC Therapeutics, and Reata Pharmaceuticals and is 
site PI for Lexeo Therapeutics, Novartis, PTC Therapeutics and Roche 
Therapeutics. All unrelated to the present manuscript. Dr. Geschwind: Has 
consulted for Gerson Lehrman Group (GLG), Brainstorm Cell Therapeutics, Inc., 
Walter Grubb, Inc. and Reata Pharmaceuticals, and he has done various 
medical-legal consulting, all unrelated to this manuscript. He is a site PI for 
Biohaven Pharmaceuticals NCT03701399. Dr Opal is a Site PI for Biohaven 
Pharmaceuticals NCT03701399. Dr. Schmahmann: Inventor of the Brief Ataxia Rating 
Scale, the Cerebellar Cognitive Affective/Schmahmann Syndrome Scale, the Patient 
Reported Outcome Measure for Ataxia, and the Cerebellar Neuropsychiatric Rating 
Scale, copyright held by the Massachusetts General Hospital Corporation; Site PI 
for Biohaven Pharmaceuticals NCT03701399. Dr. Wilmot: Member of Data Monitoring 
Board for studies of nomlabofusp (Larimar Therapeutics) in Friedreich ataxia; 
Site PI for Biohaven Pharmacueticals NCT03701399.


26. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 5;1002:177697. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177697.
Epub  2025 May 2.

Research progress of cell senescence in Alzheimer's disease: mechanisms and 
therapy.

Cai J(1), Yang L(2), Xu Y(3), Wang L(3), Zhang M(3), Qiao J(3), Xu Q(3), Zhu 
H(4), Cai M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, Division of 
Life Sciences and Medicine, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, Anhui, 230001, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Anhui University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, Anhui, 230061, China; School of Pharmacy, Anhui 
University of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, Anhui, 230012, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Anhui University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, Anhui, 230061, China.
(4)Tongling People's Hospital, Tongling, Anhui, 244002, China. Electronic 
address: juliet1982@sina.com.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Anhui University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, Anhui, 230061, China; School of Pharmacy, Anhui 
University of Chinese Medicine, Hefei, Anhui, 230012, China. Electronic address: 
caiming@ahtcm.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a highly prevalent and severely harmful 
neurodegenerative disease. Currently, the main drugs for AD are cholinesterase 
inhibitors and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. However, their 
therapeutic effect is unsatisfactory, highlighting the urgent need for a new 
treatment strategy for AD. Cell senescence (CS) is a complex stress response. 
Recently, an increasing number of studies have indicated that CS is a crucial 
factor in AD pathogenesis. CS can be used as a potential drug target for AD 
treatment. However, the specific mechanism of CS in AD remains unclear. This 
article reviews AD pathogenesis, the mechanisms associated with CS in AD, and 
the CS-based therapeutic drugs for AD including chemical agents and traditional 
Chinese medicine. Based on this, this review also summarized the clinical 
feasibility and challenges of CS-based therapies and aims to provide novel 
insights for developing effective therapeutic strategies against AD. This review 
serves as a reference for clarifying the relationship between CS and AD, 
providing new insights into the clinical treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177697
PMID: 40320112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have explicitly declared no conflict of interest.


27. J Biomed Inform. 2025 Jun;166:104830. doi: 10.1016/j.jbi.2025.104830. Epub
2025  May 2.

CD-Tron: Leveraging large clinical language model for early detection of 
cognitive decline from electronic health records.

Guan H(1), Novoa-Laurentiev J(2), Zhou L(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Primary Care, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. Electronic address: hguan6@bwh.harvard.edu.
(2)Division of General Internal Medicine and Primary Care, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(3)Division of General Internal Medicine and Primary Care, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2025 May 07:2024.10.31.24316386. doi: 10.1101/2024.10.31.24316386.

BACKGROUND: Early detection of cognitive decline during the preclinical stage of 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (AD/ADRD) is crucial for timely 
intervention and treatment. Clinical notes in the electronic health record 
contain valuable information that can aid in the early identification of 
cognitive decline. In this study, we utilize advanced large clinical language 
models, fine-tuned on clinical notes, to improve the early detection of 
cognitive decline.
METHODS: We collected clinical notes from 2,166 patients spanning the 4 years 
preceding their initial mild cognitive impairment (MCI) diagnosis from the 
Enterprise Data Warehouse of Mass General Brigham. To train the model, we 
developed CD-Tron, built upon a large clinical language model that was finetuned 
using 4,949 expert-labeled note sections. For evaluation, the trained model was 
applied to 1,996 independent note sections to assess its performance on 
real-world unstructured clinical data. Additionally, we used explainable AI 
techniques, specifically SHAP values (SHapley Additive exPlanations), to 
interpret the model's predictions and provide insight into the most influential 
features. Error analysis was also facilitated to further analyze the model's 
prediction.
RESULTS: CD-Tron significantly outperforms baseline models, achieving notable 
improvements in precision, recall, and AUC metrics for detecting cognitive 
decline (CD). Tested on many real-world clinical notes, CD-Tron demonstrated 
high sensitivity with only one false negative, crucial for clinical applications 
prioritizing early and accurate CD detection. SHAP-based interpretability 
analysis highlighted key textual features contributing to model predictions, 
supporting transparency and clinician understanding.
CONCLUSION: CD-Tron offers a novel approach to early cognitive decline detection 
by applying large clinical language models to free-text EHR data. Pretrained on 
real-world clinical notes, it accurately identifies early cognitive decline and 
integrates SHAP for interpretability, enhancing transparency in predictions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbi.2025.104830
PMID: 40320101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


28. Int J Pharm. 2025 Jun 10;678:125653. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2025.125653. Epub
 2025 May 2.

Dissolving microneedle patch integrated with microparticle depots for sustained 
intradermal delivery of donepezil.

Lee JH(1), Song GJ(1), Hwang HS(2), Lee CS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Science, Soonchunhyang University, Asan 31538, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering, Dankook University, Cheonan 31116, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: hwanghee@dankook.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Medical Science, Soonchunhyang University, Asan 31538, Republic 
of Korea; Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering, Soonchunhyang University, 
Asan 31538, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: chungsung@sch.ac.kr.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a significant global health challenge worldwide and 
imposes a substantial economic burden. Due to the shortcomings of conventional 
pharmaceutical formulations (e.g., tablet and microparticle depot injection), 
such as low bioavailability, frequent dosing, and the inconvenience related to 
injection), there is a pressing need to develop a convenient and effective 
medical cue for AD treatment. Here, a hybrid dissolving microneedle patch 
integrated with donepezil (DNP)-encapsulated biodegradable microparticle depots 
is introduced for sustained DNP delivery, reduced dosing frequency, and improved 
patient compliance. Once the microneedle patch delivers DNP-encapsulated 
microparticle depots into the skin, they subsequently act as drug reservoirs for 
the sustained release of the DNP for over 2 weeks. In vitro and ex vivo 
insertion experiments showed that the microneedle patches could provide enough 
mechanical strength and good morphology, as well as enhanced dissolvability and 
retention of microparticle depots in the skin. In vitro cytocompatibility study 
in NIH3T3 cells demonstrated the biocompatibility of the materials comprising 
microneedle patch. This hybrid system offers a promising alternative to 
conventional oral or injectable therapies for AD by enabling self-administrable, 
pain-free, and long-acting transdermal delivery.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2025.125653
PMID: 40320020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


29. SLAS Discov. 2025 Jun;33:100235. doi: 10.1016/j.slasd.2025.100235. Epub 2025
May  3.

Hyperphosphorylated tau-based Alzheimer's Disease drug discovery: Identification 
of inhibitors of tau aggregation and cytotoxicity.

Hagar HT(1), Fernandez-Vega V(2), Wang KW(1), Jordan LMO(2), Shumate J(2), 
Scampavia L(2), Tapayan AS(3), Nguyen HM(3), Spicer TP(4), Kuo MH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA.
(2)The Herbert Wertheim UF Scripps Institute for Biomedical Innovation and 
Technology in Center, High-Throughput Molecular Screening Center, Department of 
Molecular Medicine, Jupiter, Florida 33458, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48202, 
USA.
(4)The Herbert Wertheim UF Scripps Institute for Biomedical Innovation and 
Technology in Center, High-Throughput Molecular Screening Center, Department of 
Molecular Medicine, Jupiter, Florida 33458, USA. Electronic address: 
spicert@ufl.edu.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA. Electronic address: kuom@msu.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects more than 
30 million people worldwide. Underlying the progressive decline of cognitive 
functions are the neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in neurons of the brain. The 
spatiotemporal distribution of NFTs predicts the progression of cognitive 
symptoms. In contrast, the senile plaques of amyloid-β aggregates, another major 
biomarker for AD, do not correlate with the clinical symptom development, 
consistent with the negligible benefits to cognitive functions in patients 
receiving anti-Aβ immunotherapies. A new drug discovery avenue targeting tau 
pathologies is therefore urgently needed. Using a recombinant 
hyperphosphorylated tau (p-tau) that presents characters key to the disease, 
e.g., formation of neurotoxic aggregates, we conducted a fluorescence p-tau 
aggregation assay and completed a 100K-compound high-throughput screen (HTS) and 
identified inhibitors of p-tau aggregation and cytotoxicity. This dual 
functional screen resulted in several potent compounds that effectively curbed 
both p-tau aggregation and cytotoxicity. Results presented in this work are the 
first HTS for small-molecule compounds that target the cellular toxicity of 
hyperphosphorylated tau. Top hits found in this screen and their analogues to be 
developed in the near future may lead to breakthroughs in the therapeutic 
development for Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative tauopathies.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.slasd.2025.100235
PMCID: PMC12190154
PMID: 40319815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


30. Schizophr Res. 2025 Jul;281:82-90. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2025.04.022. Epub
2025  May 3.

Psychosis associated with dementia: evaluation and management.

Tampi RR(1), Joshi P(2), Jeste DV(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Creighton University School of Medicine, 7710 Mercy 
Road, Suite 601, Omaha, NE 68124, USA; Department of Psychiatry, Yale School of 
Medicine, 300 George Street, Suite 901, New Haven, CT 06511, USA. Electronic 
address: rajesh.tampi@gmail.com.
(2)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, 901 E Willetta St, Phoenix, AZ 85006, USA; 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Arizona College of Medicine-Phoenix, 475 
N 5th, Phoenix, AZ 85004, USA.
(3)Global Research Network on Social Determinants of Mental Health and 
Exposomics, La Jolla, CA, USA.

Dementia is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders in the world, and 
34-63 % of individuals with dementia have psychotic symptoms. Neurobiological 
correlates of dementia with psychosis include significantly increased densities 
of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles and higher D3 receptor density. 
Limitations of proposed diagnostic criteria include a lack of specificity for 
psychotic symptoms in individuals with dementia, a lack of consistent 
differentiation between symptoms, late recognition, and not accounting for 
comorbid depression or agitation that may be the primary symptom, which makes 
diagnosis challenging. This review aims to provide clinicians, researchers, and 
policymakers with a comprehensive evaluation of psychosis in dementia, covering 
its epidemiology, neurobiology, diagnosis, and treatment strategies. We review 
both psychosocial and pharmacological interventions for dementia-related 
psychosis. Psychosocial treatments such as meaningful communication between 
persons with dementia and their caregivers, simplifying the living environment, 
and optimizing tasks can help reduce the adverse impact of psychosis. Evidence 
from meta-analyses indicates modest efficacy for cholinesterase inhibitors, 
antidepressants, and antipsychotics for psychosis in dementia. The use of 
antipsychotic medications is limited by increased risks for serious adverse 
effects including cerebrovascular events and death. Emerging therapies such as 
xanomeline-trospium present promising avenues for treatment. By synthesizing 
current evidence and clinical guidelines, this review provides a framework for 
improving diagnosis and treatment of psychosis in dementia, helping clinicians 
and researchers refine patient care strategies while informing future research 
directions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2025.04.022
PMID: 40319614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


31. Neurol Ther. 2025 Jun;14(3):1115-1127. doi: 10.1007/s40120-025-00756-4. Epub 
2025 May 4.

Characterizing the Journey of Early Alzheimer's Disease in Patients Initiating 
Lecanemab Treatment in the United States: A Real-World Evidence Study.

Sabbagh MN(1), Zhao C(2), Mahendran M(3), Jang SR(4), Laliberté F(3), Toyosaki 
H(4), Zhang K(3), Frech F(4), Nair KV(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(2)Eisai Inc., 200 Metro Blvd, Nutley, NJ, 07110, USA. Chenyue_Zhao@eisai.com.
(3)Group d'analyse SRI, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(4)Eisai Inc., 200 Metro Blvd, Nutley, NJ, 07110, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Aurora, CO, USA.

INTRODUCTION: With the advent of disease-modifying therapies for early 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), a comprehensive characterization of patients 
initiating lecanemab in the USA is needed to understand its use in real-world 
settings.
METHODS: This retrospective observational study used administrative claims from 
the Komodo Research Database (1/1/2023-6/30/2024). Eligible patients had ≥ 1 
lecanemab administration (first claim defined the index date) and ≥ 12 months of 
clinical activity/insurance eligibility before the index date. Patient 
characteristics, diagnostic process, and AD-related medications were evaluated 
within 12 months before the index date (baseline), whereas lecanemab treatment 
patterns and concomitant medications were evaluated on or after the index date 
(follow-up). Outcomes were reported using descriptive statistics and persistence 
to lecanemab was evaluated using Kaplan-Meier analysis.
RESULTS: Of 3155 patients included in the study, mean age was 75.0 years, 55.8% 
were female, 44.2% were male, and most (93.3%) received their index lecanemab 
administration in an urban setting. Diagnoses of AD (83.8%) and mild cognitive 
impairment (60.8%) were common at baseline, and 67.6% of patients used AD 
symptomatic medications. Average time from earliest diagnosis to first lecanemab 
administration was 4.9 months among patients with a diagnosis in January 2023 
(accelerated approval date) or onwards. Over a mean follow-up of 138.8 days, the 
monthly mean number of administrations of lecanemab was 1.9, with an average of 
16.5 days between consecutive administrations and 47.4 days to the first 
follow-up head magnetic resonance imaging. Persistence to lecanemab was 87.6% at 
4 months after treatment initiation.
CONCLUSION: Lecanemab was utilized in appropriate patient populations according 
to the prescribing information approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. 
Findings from our study provide first insights into the real-world use of 
lecanemab in the USA and shed light on the need for increased and timely 
lecanemab initiation for the long-term management of early AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40120-025-00756-4
PMCID: PMC12089008
PMID: 40319433

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: Marwan N. 
Sabbagh has stock or stock options in NeuroTau, uMethod Health, Versanum, 
Athira, TransDermix, Seq BioMarque, NeuroReserve, Cortexyme/Quince Therapeutics, 
Lighthouse Therapeutics. Marwan N. Sabbagh is a consultant for Alzheon, Biogen, 
Roche-Genentech, Eisai Inc., KeifeRx, Lilly, Synaptogenix, NeuroTherapia, T3D, 
Signant Health, Novo Nordisk. Marwan N. Sabbagh receives royalties from Humanix. 
Marwan N. Sabbagh is a Board of Director for EIP Pharma. Marwan N. Sabbagh is 
Editor in Chief of Neurology and Therapy. Marwan N. Sabbagh was not involved in 
the selection of peer reviewers for the manuscript nor any of the subsequent 
editorial decisions. Kavita V. Nair is a consultant/and has received an 
honorarium from Eisai, Inc., Sanofi, Genentech, TG Therapeutics, AstraZeneca, 
Alnylam, Amgen, Alzheon, MJH Lifesciences, American Academy of Neurology, ICER 
and Applied Patient Experience. Chenyue Zhao, Feride Frech, Se Ryeong Jang, and 
Hideki Toyosaki are employees of Eisai Inc. Malena Mahendran, Kaixin Zhang, and 
François Laliberté are employees of Group d’analyse, SRI, a consulting company 
that has provided paid consulting services to Eisai Inc. and Biogen Inc., which 
funded the development and conduct of this study and short communication. 
Ethical Approval: The study was considered exempt research under 45 CFR § 
46.104(d)(4) as it involved only the secondary use of data that were 
de-identified in compliance with the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act (HIPAA), specifically, 45 CFR § 164.514. The data used for 
this analysis were provided with permission and under license from Komodo 
Health.


32. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Jun;33(6):3461-3477. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01754-6.  Epub 2025 May 4.

Chaperone-mediated autophagy, heat shock protein 70, and serotonin: novel 
targets of beta-hydroxybutyrate in HFFD/LPS-induced sporadic Alzheimer's disease 
model.

Mohamed RA(1), Abdallah DM(2), El-Abhar HS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, October 
University for Modern Science and Arts (MSA), Cairo, 12566, Egypt. 
ralia@msa.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Cairo, Egypt.

Sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD), which accounts for the majority of cases, is 
sturdily influenced by lifestyle factors such as dietary habits, obesity, and 
diabetes, leading to its classification as Type 3 diabetes. To model this 
pathological link, our AD-like model was developed by feeding Wistar male rats a 
high-fat diet with fructose in drinking water (HFFD) for 8 weeks, followed by a 
single dose of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). This group was compared with a normal 
control group fed a standard diet and a β-hydroxybutyrate (BHB)-treated group 
(125 mg/kg, p.o.), administered starting 3 h after LPS and continuing for 1 
week. The results demonstrate that BHB treatment illuminated cognitive gains, as 
indicated by the Y-maze, Morris water maze, and novel object recognition tests. 
In addition, it preserved hippocampal cytoarchitecture, reduced 
neurodegeneration, and attenuated amyloid plaques and phosphorylated Tau 
deposition. Cellularly, BHB restored critical molecular mechanisms, including 
increased lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2A (LAMP2A) hippocampal content 
as the main marker of chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), along with the 
chaperon protein Hsp70. Moreover, BHB alleviated neuroinflammation by inhibiting 
the nucleotide-binding domain, leucine-rich-containing family, and pyrin 
domain-containing-3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activation alongside the downstream 
targets cleaved caspase-1 and IL-1β/IL-18 cytokines. BHB also reduced pyroptotic 
markers, caspase-11 and gasdermin-N, and microglia-induced inflammation as it 
shifted microglial polarization toward the neuroprotective M2 phenotype. 
Finally, BHB normalized hippocampal neurotransmitter levels of the inhibited 
acetylcholine and serotonin. These findings support BHB as a promising, 
multifaceted treatment for AD, highlighting the roles of CMA, Hsp70, and 5-HT in 
slowing disease progression and improving cognitive function.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01754-6
PMCID: PMC12213920
PMID: 40319428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interest: The authors 
have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose.


33. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 15;999:177645. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177645.
Epub  2025 May 1.

3',4',7-trihydroxyflavone activates the CREB-BDNF axis and restores 
scopolamine-induced memory deficit in mice.

Kim SS(1), Kim WS(2), Moon H(3), Oh SJ(4), Hong GS(4), Lee B(5), Choi CW(6), Lee 
B(7), Choi JS(8), Kim MS(9).

Author information:
(1)Brain Science Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), 
Seoul, 02792, Republic of Korea.
(2)Brain Science Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), 
Seoul, 02792, Republic of Korea; Life Sciences and Biotechnology Division of 
Life Science, Korea University, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea.
(3)Brain Science Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), 
Seoul, 02792, Republic of Korea; Department of Biotechnology, Yonsei University, 
Seoul, 03722, Republic of Korea.
(4)Brain Science Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), 
Seoul, 02792, Republic of Korea; Division of Bio-Medical Science & Technology, 
KIST School, Korea National University of Science and Technology (UST), Seoul, 
02792, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Pukyong National University, Busan, 
48513, Republic of Korea.
(6)Natural Product Research Team, Gyeonggi Biocenter, Gyeonggi-do Business and 
Science Accelerator, Suwon, 16229, Republic of Korea.
(7)Chonnam National University Medical School, Hwasun, 58128, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: blee03@chonnam.ac.kr.
(8)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Pukyong National University, Busan, 
48513, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: choijs@pknu.ac.kr.
(9)Brain Science Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), 
Seoul, 02792, Republic of Korea; Division of Bio-Medical Science & Technology, 
KIST School, Korea National University of Science and Technology (UST), Seoul, 
02792, Republic of Korea; KHU-KIST Department of Converging Science and 
Technology, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, 02447, Republic of Korea. Electronic 
address: minsoo.kim@kist.re.kr.

Alzheimer's disease is a major neurodegenerative disorder that leads to 
dementia, yet specific treatments remain elusive. Although Albizzia julibrissin 
has been used in traditional oriental medicine to treat insomnia and 
disorientation by its anti-inflammatory properties, there are currently no 
studies in animal models. This study aims to identify potential therapeutic 
candidates for Alzheimer's disease by examining how 3',4',7-trihydroxyflavone 
(THF), isolated from Albizzia julibrissin stem bark, as a potential therapeutic 
candidate for Alzheimer's disease by examining memory recovery in a 
scopolamine-induced memory deficit mouse model. THF administration both orally 
and centrally in scopolamine-induced AD mice led to significant improvements in 
cognitive performance. Biochemical assays revealed restoration of cholinergic 
markers (ACh, AChE, ChAT) and an increase in BDNF levels in the hippocampus. 
Electrophysiological recordings confirmed that THF restored LTP reduced by 
scopolamine, indicating improved synaptic plasticity. These findings suggest 
that THF has the potential neuropharmacological agent to protect the brain from 
memory loss induced by Alzheimer's disease through enhancing cholinergic system 
activity and activating the CREB-BDNF signaling pathway in the hippocampus.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177645
PMID: 40318820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


34. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Jul 1;161:108478. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108478. Epub
2025  Apr 17.

Design, synthesis and evaluation of novel L-tryptophan derivatives as 
multifunctional agents with cholinesterase inhibition, anti-β-amyloid 
aggregation, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and neuroprotection properties 
against Alzheimer's disease.

Yu H(1), Chen Y(2), Li H(2), Li Z(2), Cui Y(2), Han S(2), Cui Y(2), Zeng X(2), 
Cheng S(3), Feng Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, School of Traditional Chinese Materia 
Medica, 103 Wenhua Road, Shenhe District, Shenyang, 110016, China; National 
Pharmaceutical Engineering Center for Solid Preparation in Chinese Herbal 
Medicine, Jiangxi University of Chinese Medicine, Nanchang 330006, PR China.
(2)National Pharmaceutical Engineering Center for Solid Preparation in Chinese 
Herbal Medicine, Jiangxi University of Chinese Medicine, Nanchang 330006, PR 
China.
(3)National Pharmaceutical Engineering Center for Solid Preparation in Chinese 
Herbal Medicine, Jiangxi University of Chinese Medicine, Nanchang 330006, PR 
China. Electronic address: 20211038@jxutcm.edu.cn.
(4)Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, School of Traditional Chinese Materia 
Medica, 103 Wenhua Road, Shenhe District, Shenyang, 110016, China; National 
Pharmaceutical Engineering Center for Solid Preparation in Chinese Herbal 
Medicine, Jiangxi University of Chinese Medicine, Nanchang 330006, PR China. 
Electronic address: fengyulin2003@126.com.

In our recent investigation, we conducted a systematic search for novel 
L-Tryptophan derivatives exhibiting marked inhibitory effects against human 
serum butyrylcholinesterase (hBuChE), an enzyme intricately implicated in the 
pathological cascade of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Two lead compounds among these 
derivatives, Z165 and Z168 displayed IC50 values of 0.44 μM and 3.23 μM against 
butyrylcholinesterase, suggesting their promising potential for further 
structural optimization. Chemical modifications were subsequently undertaken to 
enhance the inhibitory activities of these leads, culminating in the development 
of compounds 4d-9, 4d-12, and 4d-13, which demonstrated IC50 values of 0.29 μM, 
0.52 μM, and 0.13 μM, respectively. Furthermore, the following investigation 
revealed that these compounds exhibit exceptional antioxidant properties when 
juxtaposed with ascorbic acid. They are also proficient in inhibiting the 
aggregation of amyloid-beta (Aβ) peptides while concurrently displaying minimal 
cytotoxic effects towards BV-2 cell lines. Meanwhile the good blood-brain 
barrier permeability of these compounds was confirmed in PAMPA-BBB assay. 
Remarkably, compound 4d-13, which demonstrated the most potent inhibitory 
activity against butyrylcholinesterase, also afforded consistent neuroprotective 
effects compared with Galantamine against the injury induced by NMDA or 
L-(+)-Sodium glutamate in SH-SY5Y cells. Besides, 4d-13 could reduce the 
expression of inflammatory factors IL-1β and IL-6 dose-dependently in the LPS 
induced BV-2 inflammatory model. Morris water maze and step-down testing in vivo 
confirmed that 4d-13 could ameliorate scopolamine-induced cognitive deficits. 
These findings suggest that these compounds are promising leads for the 
development of therapeutic agents against AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108478
PMID: 40318509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


35. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70223. doi: 10.1002/alz.70223.

Apigenin mitigates oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and cognitive impairment 
but enhances learning and memory in aluminum chloride-induced neurotoxicity in 
rats.

Oyagbemi AA(1), Femi-Akinlosotu OM(2), Obasa AA(3), Ojo MS(1), Salami AT(4), 
Ajibade TO(1), Onukak CE(1), Igado OO(3), Esan OO(5), Oyagbemi TO(6), Adeogun 
AV(1), Awoyomi OV(6), Ikokide JE(7), Jaja IF(8)(9), Ola-Davies OE(1), Omobowale 
TO(5), Saba AB(10), Oguntibeju OO(11), Nwulia E(12), Yakubu MA(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Physiology and Biochemistry, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(2)Developmental Neurobiology and Forensic Anatomy Unit, Department of Anatomy, 
College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(3)Neuroscience Unit, Department of Veterinary Anatomy, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(4)Development of Physiology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, College of 
Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(5)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University 
of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(6)Federal College of Animal Health and Production Technology, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(7)Department of Theriogenology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(8)Department of Livestock and Pasture Science, Faculty of Science and 
Agriculture, University of Fort Hare, Alice, South Africa.
(9)Department of Agriculture and Animal Health, University of South Africa, 
Roodepoort, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(10)Department of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(11)Phytomedicine and Phytochemistry Group, Department of Biomedical Sciences, 
Faculty of Health and Wellness Sciences, Cape Peninsula University of 
Technology, Bellville, South Africa.
(12)College of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, 
Howard University Hospital, Howard University, Washington, District of Columbia, 
USA.
(13)Department of Environmental & Interdisciplinary Sciences, College of 
Science, Engineering & Technology, Vascular Biology Unit, Center for 
Cardiovascular Diseases, COPHS, Texas Southern University, Houston, Texas, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Aluminum chloride (AlCl3) exposure has been linked to 
neurotoxicity in various animal models, presenting significant concern to human 
health due to its potential implications in neurodegenerative diseases. Aluminum 
chloride is a widely recognized neurotoxin and has been used as an animal model 
of Alzheimer's disease via mechanisms linked with oxidative stress and 
inflammation. The study investigated the potential ameliorative effect of 
apigenin on AlCl3-induced neurotoxicity in rats.
METHODS: Forty adult male Wistar rats were randomly divided into four different 
groups - control, AlCl3 (100 mg/kg), apigenin (50 mg/kg) plus AlCl3, and 
apigenin (50 mg/kg) alone administered orally for 14 days.
RESULTS: Our findings revealed AlCl3 exposure induced significant 
neurobehavioral deficits, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and loss of the 
Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellum. Treatment with apigenin attenuated 
neuroinflammation and enhanced learning and memory with significant improvement 
in recognition index.
DISCUSSION: Apigenin demonstrates promising ameliorative effects against 
AlCl3-induced neurotoxicity in rats.
HIGHLIGHTS: Aluminum chloride toxicity caused significant reduction in learning, 
exploration, and memory. Aluminum chloride toxicity induced neurotoxicity, 
increased biomarkers of oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and precipitated 
cognitive impairment. Apigenin improved brain antioxidant, enhanced learning, 
exploration, and memory.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70223
PMCID: PMC12441593
PMID: 40318207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in supporting information.


36. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70166. doi: 10.1002/alz.70166.

Targeted proteomic biomarker profiling using NULISA in a cohort enriched with 
risk for Alzheimer's disease and related dementias.

Rea Reyes RE(1), Wilson RE(1), Langhough RE(1)(2), Studer RL(2), Jonaitis 
EM(1)(2), Oomens JE(1), Planalp EM(1), Bendlin BB(1), Chin NA(1), Asthana S(1), 
Zetterberg H(1)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Johnson SC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine 
and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(7)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Science 
Park, Hong Kong, China.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Nov 29:2024.11.28.24318162. doi: 10.1101/2024.11.28.24318162.

INTRODUCTION: Targeted proteomic assays may be useful for diagnosing and staging 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD). We evaluated the performance 
of a 120-marker central nervous system (CNS) NUcleic acid Linked Immuno-Sandwich 
Assay (NULISA) panel in samples spanning the Alzheimer's disease (AD) spectrum.
METHODS: Cross-sectional plasma samples (n = 252) were analyzed using NULISAseq 
CNS panel from Alamar Biosciences. Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) 
analyses demonstrated the accuracy from NULISAseq-tau phosphorylated at 
threonine 217 (pTau217) in detecting amyloid (A) and tau (T) positron emission 
tomography (PET) positivity. Differentially expressed proteins were identified 
using volcano plots.
RESULTS: NULISAseq-pTau217 accurately classified A/T PET status with ROC areas 
under the curve of 0.92/0.86; pTau217 was upregulated in A+, T+, and impaired 
groups with log2-fold changes of 1.21, 0.57, and 4.63, respectively, compared to 
A-. Of interest, TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) phosphorylated at serine 
409 (pTDP43-409) was also upregulated in the impaired group and correlated with 
declining hippocampal volume and cognitive trajectories.
DISCUSSION: This study shows the potential of a targeted proteomics panel for 
characterizing brain changes pertinent to ADRD. The promising pTDP43-409 
findings require further replication.
HIGHLIGHTS: The NULISAseq pTau217 assay was comparable to the Simoa pTau217 
assay, both utilizing the ALZpath antibody, in detecting amyloid positron 
emission tomography (PET) positivity, each with areas under the curve greater 
than 90%. Nineteen proteins were differentially expressed in participants with 
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) compared to those who were unimpaired. Markers 
of non-AD proteinopathies such as pTDP43-409, oligomeric alpha-synuclein, and 
huntingtin (HTT), were among those upregulated in MCI. High levels of plasma 
pTDP43-409 were associated with worsening hippocampal atrophy and cognitive 
decline, clinical indicators of limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 
encephalopathy (LATE), compared to those with low pTDP43-409.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70166
PMCID: PMC12046973
PMID: 40318118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in 
symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, and Roche; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). B.B.B. has consulted for New Amsterdam Pharma, Cognito 
Therapeutics, and Merry Life Biomedical, and is co‐founder of Cognovance 
(outside submitted work). S.C.J. has served on scientific advisory boards for 
ALZPath and Enigma Biomedical. N.A.C. has done consulting for New Amsterdam 
Pharm. The following authors reported no financial or non‐financial disclosures: 
Ramiro Eduardo Rea Reyes, Rachael E. Wilson, Rebecca E. Langhough, Rachel L. 
Studer, Erin M. Jonaitis, Julie E. Oomens, Elizabeth M. Planalp, and Sanjay 
Asthana. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


37. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2025 Aug;73(8):2531-2538. doi: 10.1111/jgs.19502. Epub 2025
 May 2.

Assessing the Content of Goals of Care Documentation for Hospitalized Patients 
With Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias.

Piscitello G(1)(2), Lingler J(3), Ramos K(4), Schenker Y(1)(2), Arnold RM(5), 
Schell J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Section of Palliative Care and Medical Ethics, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Palliative Research Center, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Department of Health and Community Systems, University of Pittsburgh School 
of Nursing, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University, Durham, 
North Carolina, USA.
(5)Brookedale Department of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.

BACKGROUND: Goals of care (GOC) conversations are an evidence-based practice 
that help clarify and align patient values and preferences for medical care with 
treatment options. Little is known about how clinicians document the content of 
GOC conversations for patients with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias 
(AD/ADRD) in the electronic health record (EHR) and whether this may differ 
across hospitals. We aimed to assess the content of GOC documentation for 
hospitalized patients with and without AD/ADRD.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cross-sectional study to assess documented 
content within a standardized GOC note written for seriously ill hospitalized 
adult patients admitted to 21 hospitals between 2021 and 2023. Seriously ill 
patients had a predicted 90-day mortality greater than 30% as determined by an 
artificial intelligence mortality prediction score. Patients with AD/ADRD were 
identified using diagnostic codes placed by clinicians in the EHR.
RESULTS: Our review of GOC documentation across 21 hospitals identified 5475 
patients with GOC notes. The study sample had a median age of 76 years and was 
52% male, 13% nonwhite, 81% with Medicare insurance, and 14% with AD/ADRD. 
Compared to patients without AD/ADRD, patients with AD/ADRD were more likely to 
have documentation of family presence at the GOC conversation (93% vs. 76%, 
p = < 0.001), a surrogate decision-maker (60% vs. 54%, p = 0.003), and patient 
prognosis (84% vs. 78%, p = < 0.001). Patients with AD/ADRD were less likely to 
have documentation of patient presence at the GOC conversation (28% vs. 64%, 
p = < 0.001) and patient values and preferences for medical care (65% vs. 69%, 
p = < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Hospitalized patients with AD/ADRD are infrequently present in GOC 
conversations and less likely to have their values and preferences for medical 
care documented within a GOC note. Further research is needed to explore the 
reasons for these findings.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of the American Geriatrics Society published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.19502
PMCID: PMC12353549
PMID: 40318049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


38. Neurogastroenterol Motil. 2025 Sep;37(9):e70056. doi: 10.1111/nmo.70056. Epub
 2025 May 2.

Studying the Role of Myenteric Amyloidosis in Gastrointestinal Dysmotility and 
Enteric Neural Dysfunction Using APP/PS1 Mice-Is It an Adequate Animal Model?

Fernandes R(1), Masino M(2), Flood E(1), Lansdell TA(1), Srikrishna N(3), Mui 
R(4), Dorrance AM(1), Galligan JJ(1)(2), Xu H(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, Michigan, USA.
(2)The Neuroscience Program, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, 
USA.
(3)Professorial Assistantship Program, Michigan State University, East Lansing, 
Michigan, USA.
(4)Sparrow Health System, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, 
USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The Gastrointestinal (GI) microbiome and gut-brain axis are 
associated with the progression and pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Amyloid deposition is thought to be a driver of AD, causing synaptic dysfunction 
and neuronal death in the brain. Chronic constipation is a common 
gastrointestinal (GI) dysmotility in AD patients, which impacts patient outcomes 
and quality of life. It is unknown if enteric amyloidosis disrupts myenteric 
neuron function and causes GI dysmotility.
METHODS: Untreated male and female APP/PS1 (a transgenic murine model of brain 
amyloidosis) and sex-matched control mice were followed until 12 months of age. 
A separate cohort of mice was treated with a vehicle or the beta-secretase 
(BACE1) inhibitor, lanabecestat, starting at 5 months of age until 7 months. GI 
motility was assessed in all mice by measuring whole GI transit in vivo. 
Propulsive colonic motility and GI smooth muscle contractions were measured 
ex vivo. At 7 or 12 months old, amyloidosis in the brain and myenteric plexus 
was determined by immunohistochemistry or ELISA; the myenteric neural density, 
including the cholinergic and nitrergic neurons, was evaluated by immune 
staining and RT-PCR; expression of pro-inflammatory factors in the GI wall was 
assessed by RT-PCR.
KEY RESULTS: By 7 months of age, male and female APP/PS1 mice developed abundant 
amyloid plaques in the brain. Aged untreated male APP/PS1 mice also demonstrated 
Aβ deposition in the colonic myenteric ganglia, which was associated with 
increased fecal output and faster whole GI transit starting at 4-7 months old, 
but vehicle- and lanabecestat-treated male APP/PS1 mice had similar GI motility 
to their non-genetic controls until 7 months old. None of the female APP/PS1 
mice showed GI dysmotility or myenteric amyloidosis. Two months of lanabecestat 
treatment effectively reduced amyloid plaque burden in the brains of female 
APP/PS1 mice but not in male APP/PS1 mice. Treatment with lanabecestat did not 
affect myenteric Aβ intensity or GI motility in all APP/PS1 mice. All APP/PS1 
mice did not show myenteric neuronal degeneration or inflammation until 
12 months old.
CONCLUSIONS: APP/PS1 mice do not recapitulate myenteric amyloidosis persistently 
and lack the phenotype of constipation observed in human AD patients; these mice 
should not be considered an adequate murine model for studying the role of 
myenteric amyloidosis in GI dysmotility. An adequate animal model with myenteric 
amyloidosis is required for further study.

© 2025 The Author(s). Neurogastroenterology & Motility published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/nmo.70056
PMCID: PMC12351361
PMID: 40317839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


39. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2025 Aug;73(8):2524-2530. doi: 10.1111/jgs.19494. Epub 2025
 May 2.

Pulling Back the Curtain on Hospital Dementia Detection: Validation of the 
Informant-Based Clinical Dementia Rating.

Aliberti MJR(1)(2)(3), Avelino-Silva TJ(1)(4), Covinsky KE(4), Bertola L(5), 
Magaldi RM(1), Boyd CM(6), Carpenter CR(7), Yassuda MS(8)(9), Suemoto CK(1); 
CHANGE Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Investigacao Medica Em Envelhecimento (LIM-66), Servico de 
Geriatria, Hospital das Clinicas HCFMUSP, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de 
Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Research Institute, Hospital Sirio-Libanes, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(4)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Universidade Federal 
de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(6)Division of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, Department of Medicine, Johns 
Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(7)Department of Emergency Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(8)Gerontology, School of Arts, Sciences and Humanities, University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(9)Neurology Department, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao 
Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Dementia often goes undetected in hospital settings, where cognitive 
assessments are challenging due to illness severity and delirium. This study 
aimed to (1) evaluate the accuracy of the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR), based 
solely on knowledgeable informant reports, for detecting preexisting dementia 
and cognitive impairment in hospitalized patients compared to a gold-standard 
diagnosis, (2) and compare its performance to the 16-item Informant 
Questionnaire on Cognitive Decline in the Elderly (IQCODE-16).
METHODS: This cross-sectional study assessed consecutive patients aged ≥ 65 
admitted to inpatient units from five hospitals in Brazil. The informant-based 
CDR was administered to knowledgeable informants within 48 h of admission, 
capturing patients' cognitive status 3 months before hospitalization to avoid 
the influence of acute cognitive impairments. Blinded experts provided a gold 
standard clinical diagnosis of dementia or cognitive impairment no dementia 
(CIND) based on a 90-min comprehensive assessment, including a standardized 
neuropsychology battery. Areas under the curve (AUC) examined diagnostic 
accuracy.
RESULTS: Of 65 participants (mean age = 79.4 years; women = 54%), 34% had 
dementia and 32% had CIND. Compared to the gold standard, the informant-based 
CDR showed excellent diagnostic accuracy for detecting dementia (AUC = 0.92; 95% 
confidence interval [CI] = 0.86-0.98) and cognitive impairment (AUC = 0.93; 95% 
CI = 0.88-0.98), with a cutoff of ≥ 1 showing 98% specificity for dementia and a 
cutoff of ≥ 0.5 showing 98% sensitivity for cognitive impairment. Compared to 
the IQCODE-16, the informant-based CDR had similar performance in detecting 
dementia and a nonsignificant slight advantage in identifying cognitive 
impairment (AUC = 0.93 vs. 0.84, p = 0.069), reducing unrecognized cognitive 
impairment based on medical record documentation from 70% to 2%.
CONCLUSIONS: Informant-based CDR is a valid and efficient tool for detecting 
dementia and cognitive impairment in hospitalized older adults, supporting early 
diagnosis and guiding multidisciplinary interventions in acute care. Its use in 
routine hospitals may help clinicians reduce undetected cognitive impairment, 
enhance decision making, and improve patient care.

© 2025 The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.19494
PMCID: PMC12353518
PMID: 40317752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest, including financial and personal, in this study.


40. Cell Rep. 2025 May 27;44(5):115636. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2025.115636. Epub
2025  May 1.

Increased burden of rare risk variants across gene expression networks 
predisposes to sporadic Parkinson's disease.

Eubanks E(1), VanderSleen K(1), Mody J(1), Patel N(1), Sacks B(1), Farahani 
MD(2), Wang J(2), Elliott J(2), Jaber N(3), Akçimen F(4), Bandres-Ciga S(5), 
Helweh F(6), Liu J(1), Archakam S(1), Kimelman R(1), Sharma B(2), Socha P(1), 
Guntur A(1), Huang Y(1), Ramalingam N(7), Guadagno E(1), Bartels T(8), Dettmer 
U(7), Mouradian MM(1), Bahrami AH(6), Dai W(3), Baum J(2), Shi Z(2), Hardy J(9), 
Kara E(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Institute for 
Neurological Therapeutics at Rutgers, Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences, 
Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Rutgers University, Piscataway, 
NJ 08854, USA.
(3)Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience & Institute for Quantitative 
Biomedicine, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA.
(4)Molecular Genetics Section, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute 
on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(5)Center for Alzheimer's and Related Dementias (CARD), National Institute on 
Aging and National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(6)UNAM-National Nanotechnology Research Center and Institute of Materials 
Science & Nanotechnology, Bilkent University, Ankara 06800, Turkey.
(7)Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA; Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(8)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London W1T 7NF, 
UK.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London W1T 7NF, 
UK; Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, University College London, London WC1N 3BG, UK; Reta Lila Weston 
Institute, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London WC1N 1PJ, UK; 
National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) University College London 
Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre, London W1T 7DN, UK; Institute for Advanced 
Study, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, SAR, Hong Kong, 
China.
(10)Department of Neurology, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Institute for 
Neurological Therapeutics at Rutgers, Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences, 
Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA. Electronic address: ek851@rwjms.rutgers.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Sep 01:2024.08.30.610195. doi: 10.1101/2024.08.30.610195.

Alpha-synuclein (αSyn) is an intrinsically disordered protein that accumulates 
in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Through a 
high-throughput screen, we recently identified 38 genes whose knockdown 
modulates αSyn propagation. Here, we show that, among those, TAX1BP1 regulates 
how αSyn interacts with lipids, and ADAMTS19 modulates how αSyn phase separates 
into inclusions, adding to the growing body of evidence implicating those 
processes in PD. Through RNA sequencing, we identify several genes that are 
differentially expressed after knockdown of TAX1BP1 or ADAMTS19 and carry an 
increased frequency of rare risk variants in patients with PD versus healthy 
controls. Those differentially expressed genes cluster within modules in regions 
of the brain that develop high degrees of αSyn pathology. We propose a model for 
the genetic architecture of sporadic PD: increased burden of risk variants 
across genetic networks dysregulates pathways underlying αSyn homeostasis and 
leads to pathology and neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2025.115636
PMCID: PMC12258067
PMID: 40317721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests M.M.M. is an inventor 
of filed and issued patents related to α-synuclein. M.M.M. is a founder of 
MentiNova, Inc. E.K. is a member of the EMBO Scientific Exchange Grants Advisory 
Board.


41. Curr Pain Headache Rep. 2025 May 3;29(1):82. doi: 10.1007/s11916-025-01389-w.

Atypical Applications of Neuromodulation for Non-Painful Conditions.

Brown A(1), Lam L(2), Huh B(3), D'Souza RS(4), Javed S(3).

Author information:
(1)H. Ben Taub Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA. ashlyn.brown@bcm.edu.
(2)H. Ben Taub Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Pain Medicine, Division of Anesthesiology, Critical Care 
Medicine, and Pain Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN, 55905, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This narrative review explores the expanding applications of 
neuromodulation beyond pain management, focusing on its use in treating 
non-painful conditions such as heart failure, renal failure, spinal cord 
injuries, overactive bladder syndrome, and cognitive impairment in 
neurodegenerative diseases.
RECENT FINDINGS: Neuromodulation techniques, including dorsal root ganglion 
stimulation, sacral neurostimulation, and deep brain stimulation, have shown 
promising results in various non-painful medical conditions: Heart and Renal 
Failure: Dorsal root ganglion stimulation induces diuresis in diuretic-resistant 
patients, offering a novel approach to managing fluid overload. Spinal Cord 
Injuries: Epidural spinal cord stimulation and brain-spine interfaces have 
demonstrated the potential to restore motor function, enhancing mobility and 
quality of life for paralyzed individuals. Overactive Bladder Syndrome: Sacral 
neurostimulation and tibial nerve stimulation have proven effective in improving 
urinary continence and reducing symptoms in patients unresponsive to 
conventional treatments. Cognitive Impairment in Neurodegenerative Diseases: 
Techniques such as deep brain stimulation and transcranial magnetic stimulation 
are being investigated for their ability to enhance cognitive and motor 
functions in conditions like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. The review 
highlights the transformative potential of neuromodulation in non-painful 
conditions, demonstrating its ability to address complex medical issues beyond 
its traditional scope. Continued research and optimization of these techniques 
may lead to broader therapeutic applications and improved patient outcomes.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11916-025-01389-w
PMID: 40317388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Human Animal Rights: This article does not 
contain any studies with human or animal subjects performed by any of the 
authors.


42. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 2025 Nov;38(6):430-443. doi: 
10.1177/08919887251339591. Epub 2025 May 3.

A Non-Randomized Pilot Trial of Brain-WISE: A Group-Based Program for Brain 
Health and Dementia Risk Reduction in Community Settings.

Cohen ML(1)(2), Van Buren K(1), Myers MJ(1), Ellison JM(3), Martens CR(2)(4), 
Lanzi AM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, University of Delaware, 
Newark, DE, USA.
(2)Delaware Center for Cognitive Aging Research, University of Delaware, Newark, 
DE, USA.
(3)Comprehensive Alzheimer's Center, Vickie and Sidney Farber Institute for 
Neuroscience, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Kinesiology and Applied Physiology, University of Delaware, 
Newark, DE, USA.

BackgroundAddressing modifiable risk factors can potentially prevent 45% of 
cases of dementia. Here, we present the development of Brain-WISE, a 
low-intensity, group-based intervention to improve brain health in community 
settings. We conducted preliminary testing to refine intervention materials and 
procedures, assess acceptability and adherence, and evaluate preliminary 
effects.Methods143 community-dwelling adults aged 56-93 completed the 
non-randomized pilot trial. The 6-session intervention included psychoeducation, 
discussion/activities, and health screenings. Adherence was measured by 
attendance and acceptability was measured with questionnaires. Brain health 
knowledge and motivation to improve brain health were assessed before and after 
the program.ResultsAcross 6 cohorts, attendance was 80% - 97% and 96% of 
participants agreed that the program was worthwhile. Knowledge (d = 0.83, P < 
.001) and motivation (d = 0.43, P < .001) increased significantly.ConclusionsThe 
Brain-WISE program displayed good adherence and acceptability and evidence of an 
effect on knowledge and motivation. Further testing is warranted.

DOI: 10.1177/08919887251339591
PMID: 40317215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


43. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 May 2;17(1):97. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01745-3.

Prognostic value of plasma biomarkers for informing clinical trial design in 
mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.

Qiu Y(#)(1)(2), Jacobs DM(#)(3)(4), Messer K(2)(5), Salmon DP(6)(5), Wellington 
CL(7)(8), Stukas S(7), Revta C(5), Brewer JB(6)(5), Léger GC(6)(5), Askew 
B(5)(9), Donahue L(9), Kaplita S(9), Coric V(9), Qureshi IA(9), Feldman 
HH(6)(5); Alzheimer’s Disease Cooperative Study T2 Protect AD Study Group.

Collaborators: Obisesan T, Smith A, Heidebrink J, Mintzer J, Ala T, Pierce A, 
Schneider L, Heidebrink J, Bell K, Nowrangi M, Smith A, Jicha G, Lopez O, 
Porsteinsson A, Jefferson A, Farlow M, van Dyck C, Grant I, Siegal A, Spann B, 
Atri A, Lerner A, Scharre D, Miller DD, Peskind E, Drake J, Ritter A, Bernick C, 
Richter R, Karathanos M, Mintzer J, Brawman-Mintzer O, Baumel B, Keller J, 
Bozoki A, Sidiropoulos C, Brangman S, Tchikindas O, Bath K, Weisman D, Singer C, 
Lichtenstein M, Sano M, Peters JJ, Beyzer A, Shubin R, McCallister P, Flitman S, 
Verghese C, Seshadri S, Burke A, Ross J, Brody M.

Author information:
(1)KLATASDS-MOE, School of Statistics, East China Normal University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Division of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Herbert Wertheim School of 
Public Health, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Neurosciences, School of Medicine, University of California San 
Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA. djacobs@ucsd.edu.
(4)Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, University of California San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA, USA. djacobs@ucsd.edu.
(5)Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, University of California San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Neurosciences, School of Medicine, University of California San 
Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Djavad Mowafaghian Centre 
for Brain Health, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(8)International Collaboration on Repair Discoveries, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(9)Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, Inc, New Haven, CT, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence supports the diagnostic and prognostic utility of 
plasma biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease (AD), particularly in early disease 
stages. We sought to extend these findings by evaluating the prognostic value of 
plasma biomarkers in a clinical trial of mild-to-moderate AD.
METHODS: Post-hoc analyses investigated whether baseline concentrations of 
plasma biomarkers (Aβ42/Aβ40, T-tau, P-tau181, NfL, and GFAP) predicted change 
in ADAS-Cog11, CDR-SB, and volumetric MRI among participants in T2 Protect AD, a 
negative 48-week, phase-2, placebo-controlled trial of troriluzole in 
mild-to-moderate AD. All trial participants met diagnostic criteria for probable 
AD. Baseline concentrations of, and 48-week changes in, plasma biomarkers were 
assessed for association with 48-week change in outcomes using linear 
regression. Combinations of baseline biomarkers that best predicted change on 
the ADAS-Cog11 and CDR-SB were identified using least absolute shrinkage and 
selection operator (LASSO) regression. Biomarker-informed sample size 
calculations were modeled.
RESULTS: Of 350 trial participants, 319 had all requisite biomarker and clinical 
outcome data for inclusion in these analyses (mean age 71.5, SD = 8.03; 58.6% 
female). Higher plasma NfL at baseline predicted worsening scores on the 
ADAS-Cog11 (effect size (ES) = 1.42, 95%CI = [0.43, 2.41], p = 0.026) and CDR-SB 
(ES = 0.42, 95%CI = [0.10, 0.73], p = 0.048). LASSO regression revealed that 
worsening on the ADAS-Cog11 was best predicted by the combination of baseline 
plasma NfL, T-tau, and Aβ42/40 ratio, whereas baseline NfL alone best predicted 
worsening on CDR-SB. Higher baseline NfL predicted increasing ventricular volume 
(ES = 1.30cm3, 95%CI = [0.43, 2.17], p = 0.018) and decreasing mid-temporal 
cortical volume (ES = -0.47, 95%CI = [-0.74, -0.20], p = 0.003). Increasing NfL 
over the 48-week trial was associated with worsening on CDR-SB but not 
ADAS-Cog11. Modeling of biomarker-informed power calculations revealed that 
including high NfL as a trial entry criterion could substantially reduce 
requisite trial sample size.
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated baseline plasma NfL predicted more rapid clinical decline 
and MRI volume loss. Furthermore, increasing plasma NfL concentration over time 
was associated with worsening on the CDR-SB. Plasma NfL is an easily accessible 
biomarker that may enhance the design of clinical trials in mild-to-moderate AD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The T2 Protect AD trial was registered as NCT03605667 on 
clinicaltrials.gov on 2018-07-27.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01745-3
PMCID: PMC12046789
PMID: 40317057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Trial oversight was provided by the central Institutional Review 
Board (IRB), Advarra. Written informed consent was obtained from study 
participants, legally authorized representatives, or study partners per IRB 
regulations in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and the Belmont 
Report. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing Interests: YQ is 
funded by National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant number 12401347), 
Chinese MOE Foundation on Humanities and Social Sciences (grant number 
23YJC910006) and Shanghai Baiyulan Pujiang project (24PJD087). DMJ reports 
support from grants to UC San Diego from the NIH, Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, 
Vivoryon Therapeutics, and a philanthropic donation for the Epstein Family 
Alzheimer Research Collaboration. KM reports support from grants to UC San Diego 
from the NIH and Biohaven Pharmaceuticals. DPS reports support from grants to UC 
San Diego from the NIH and Biohaven Pharmaceuticals and consulting fees from 
Biogen and Aptinyx. CLW reports no disclosures. SS reports no disclosures. CR 
reports support from grants to UC San Diego from the NIH and Biohaven 
Pharmaceuticals. JBB reports support from grants to UC San Diego from the NIH 
and Biohaven Pharmaceuticals. GCL reports support from grants to UC San Diego 
from the NIH and Biohaven Pharmaceuticals. BA, LD, SK, VC, and IA are currently 
employed by Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and own stock and hold stock options 
in Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, Inc. HHF reports grant funding from Biohaven 
Pharmaceuticals with no personal funds received and all payments to the 
Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study at UC San Diego. HHF also discloses grant 
funding from Annovis (QR Pharma), Vivoryon (Probiodrug), AC Immune, and LuMind 
Foundation; service agreements for consulting activities with LuMind, Axon 
Neuroscience, Novo Nordisk, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals, Roche/Genentech 
Pharmaceuticals (DMC/DSMB), Tau Consortium (SAB), Janssen Research & Development 
(DSMB); support for travel from Novo Nordisk, Royal Society of Canada, and 
Translating Research in Elder Care (TREC); and a philanthropic donation for the 
Epstein Family Alzheimer Research Collaboration. For these activities, no 
personal funds have been received with all payments to UC San Diego. HHF 
personally receives royalties for patent: Feldman HH (filed November 26, 2008). 
Detecting and Treating Dementia Serial Number 12/3-2691 U.S. Patent No. 
PCT/US2007/07008. Washington, DC: U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.


44. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Sep;62(9):11723-11738. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05008-y.
Epub  2025 May 3.

Dual Mechanism of Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in Alzheimer's Disease: PAD4 
Inhibition and Autophagy Stimulation.

Barmaki H(1)(2), Nourazarian A(3), Yousefi H(3), Khalilnezhad A(4), Shahriyari 
E(4), Khaki-Khatibi F(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Clinical Laboratories, Faculty of Medicine, 
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Khoy University of Medical Sciences, 
Khoy, Iran.
(4)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Ege University, Izmir, 
Turkey.
(5)Stem Cell Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. fatemehkhakikhatibi@yahoo.com.
(6)Department of Biochemistry and Clinical Laboratories, Faculty of Medicine, 
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. 
fatemehkhakikhatibi@yahoo.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), which affects millions globally, is marked by 
progressive cognitive decline and neurodegeneration driven by protein 
aggregation and chronic inflammation. Emerging evidence has implicated peptidyl 
arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) activity and impaired autophagy as key contributors 
to disease progression. In this study, we explored the neuroprotective potential 
of DHA in an in vitro model of AD. DHA was administered before arachidonic acid 
(AA), a proinflammatory agent that mimics AD-like cellular stress. DHA treatment 
reduced PAD4 expression, enhanced autophagy-related gene expression, and 
attenuated inflammatory and oxidative stress markers. It also lowered 
amyloid-beta accumulation and preserved neuronal integrity. These outcomes 
suggest a potential dual mechanism by which DHA may influence 
Alzheimer's-related pathology via PAD4 inhibition and autophagy stimulation in 
vitro. While these findings offer important mechanistic insights, further 
validation in animal models and clinical contexts is essential before 
therapeutic relevance can be confirmed.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05008-y
PMID: 40316879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


45. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Jun;33(6):2977-2995. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01765-3.  Epub 2025 May 3.

Role of mGluR7 in Alzheimer's disease: pathophysiological insights and 
therapeutic approaches.

Hunjan G(1), Aran KR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, 142001, 
Punjab, India.
(2)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, 142001, Punjab, India. bishalarann@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease 
characterised by oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, synaptic 
impairment, and neuronal loss. The progression of AD depends on two main 
pathologic features, amyloid-beta accumulation, and tau pathology, whereas the 
disruption of glutamatergic neurotransmission plays an essential role in disease 
progression. Glutamate, the brain's primary excitatory neurotransmitter, acts on 
ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). Metabotropic glutamate 
receptor 7 (mGluR7) is a pre-synaptic type III mGluR receptor playing a crucial 
role in the central nervous system (CNS) through neurotransmitter modulation, 
reducing glutamate-induced excitotoxicity, and promoting early neuronal growth. 
Since mGluR7 is a key regulator of neurotransmitter release, it modulates 
synaptic integrity and neuronal survival, and its dysfunction is associated with 
impaired synaptic homeostasis in AD. Moreover, mGluR7 interacts with 
neuroinflammatory pathways by activating microglia and regulating cytokine 
production, therefore playing a significant role in AD pathogenesis. The drugs 
targeting mGluR7, including mGluR7 agonists, antagonists, and allosteric 
modulators, could potentially be among the most effective agents for the 
treatment of psychiatric disorders, neurodegenerative diseases including AD, as 
well as neurodevelopmental impairments, though these potential therapies remain 
in the early stages. This article summarises the structure as well as the 
function of mGluR7 and explores current insights into the functioning of mGluR7 
in molecular mechanisms of AD pathogenesis. It also discusses potential 
therapeutic targets of mGluR7, highlighting the need to develop such therapies 
to prevent disease progression.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01765-3
PMID: 40316832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: No conflicts 
of interest to declare. Ethical approval and consent to participation: Not 
applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable.


46. Mol Psychiatry. 2025 Oct;30(10):4558-4575. doi: 10.1038/s41380-025-03041-w.
Epub  2025 May 2.

Alzheimer's disease patient brain extracts induce multiple pathologies in novel 
vascularized neuroimmune organoids for disease modeling and drug discovery.

Ji Y(1)(2), Chen X(2)(3), Wang Z(4), Meek CJ(1), McLean JL(1), Yang Y(2)(3), 
Yuan C(2)(5), Rochet JC(2)(3), Liu F(6), Xu R(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Purdue 
University, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, USA.
(2)Purdue Institute for Integrative Neuroscience (PIIN), Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN, 47907, USA.
(3)Borch Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, College 
of Pharmacy, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, USA.
(4)Departments of Structural Biology and Developmental Neurobiology, St. Jude 
Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN, 38105, USA.
(5)Davidson School of Chemical Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, 
IN, 47907, USA.
(6)Department of Neurochemistry, Inge Grundke-Iqbal Research Floor, New York 
State Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities, 1050 Forest 
Hill Road, Staten Island, NY, 10314, USA.
(7)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Purdue 
University, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, USA. xu1726@purdue.edu.
(8)Purdue Institute for Integrative Neuroscience (PIIN), Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN, 47907, USA. xu1726@purdue.edu.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia, afflicting 55 
million individuals worldwide, with limited treatment available. Current AD 
models mainly focus on familial AD (fAD), which is due to genetic mutations. 
However, models for studying sporadic AD (sAD), which represents over 95% of AD 
cases without specific genetic mutations, are severely limited. Moreover, the 
fundamental species differences between humans and animals might significantly 
contribute to clinical failures for AD therapeutics that have shown success in 
animal models, highlighting the urgency to develop more translational human 
models for studying AD, particularly sAD. In this study, we developed a complex 
human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC)-based vascularized neuroimmune organoid 
model, which contains multiple cell types affected in human AD brains, including 
human neurons, microglia, astrocytes, and blood vessels. Importantly, we 
demonstrated that brain extracts from individuals with sAD can effectively 
induce multiple AD pathologies in organoids four weeks post-exposure, including 
amyloid beta (Aβ) plaque-like aggregates, tau tangle-like aggregates, 
neuroinflammation, elevated microglial synaptic pruning, synapse/neuronal loss, 
and impaired neural network activity. Proteomics analysis also revealed 
disrupted AD-related pathways in our vascularized AD neuroimmune organoids. 
Furthermore, after treatment with Lecanemab, an FDA-approved antibody drug 
targeting Aβ, AD brain extracts exposed organoids showed a significant reduction 
of amyloid burden, along with an elevated vascular inflammation response. Thus, 
the vascularized neuroimmune organoid model provides a unique opportunity to 
study AD, particularly sAD, under a pathophysiological relevant 
three-dimensional (3D) human cell environment. It also holds great promise to 
facilitate AD drug development, particularly for immunotherapies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41380-025-03041-w
PMCID: PMC12436168
PMID: 40316675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Ethics approval and consent to participate: This study does 
not involve human participants.


47. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;12(8):100195. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100195.  Epub 2025 May 1.

The efficacy and safety of anti-amyloid monoclonal antibody versus 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitor with an in-depth analysis across genotypes and 
disease stages: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Hsu CW(1), Hsu TW(2), Kao YC(3), Lin YH(4), Thompson T(5), Carvalho AF(6), 
Stubbs B(7), Tseng PT(8), Yang FC(9), Tsai CK(9), Yu CL(10), Tu YK(11), Liang 
CS(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, E-DA Dachang Hospital, I-Shou University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan; Department of Psychiatry, E-DA Hospital, I-Shou University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; School of Medicine, College of 
Medicine, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung , Taiwan.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense 
Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Psychiatry, Beitou Branch, 
Tri-Service General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Institute of Population Health Sciences, National Health Research Institutes, 
Miaoli, Taiwan; Department of Psychiatry, National Taiwan University Hospital, 
Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Centre for Chronic Illness and Ageing, University of Greenwich, London, UK.
(6)IMPACT (Innovation in Mental and Physical Health and Clinical Treatment) 
Strategic Research Centre, School of Medicine, Barwon Health, Deakin University, 
Geelong, VIC, Australia.
(7)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(8)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, National Sun Yat-sen University, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan; Department of Psychology, College of Medical and Health Science, Asia 
University, Taichung, Taiwan; Prospect Clinic for Otorhinolaryngology & 
Neurology, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; Institute of Precision Medicine, National Sun 
Yat-sen University, Kaohsiung City, Taiwan.
(9)Department of Neurology, Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense 
Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
(10)Department of Pharmacy, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital Linkou, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan.
(11)Institute of Epidemiology & Preventive Medicine, College of Public Health, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Dentistry, National 
Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
yukangtu@ntu.edu.tw.
(12)Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense 
Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Psychiatry, Beitou Branch, 
Tri-Service General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
lcsyfw@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: To date, studies have not compared the efficacy and safety of 
monoclonal antibodies (mABs) with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs).
METHODS: Five electronic databases were systemic searched from inception to 10 
November 2024 for double-blinded randomized controlled trial (RCT) of patients 
diagnosed with MCI or mild AD treated with mABs or AChEIs for at least 6 months. 
The primary outcome was change in cognitive function, measured by the 
Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale 14-item (ADAS-Cog) and 
Clinical Dementia Rating Scale-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SOB). The secondary outcomes 
were acceptability, tolerability, serious adverse events (SAE), and all -cause 
mortality. For mABs, amyloid-related imaging abnormalities-edema (ARIA-E), and 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities-hemorrhage (ARIA-H) were also assessed. 
Subgroup analyses included (i) MCI versus mild AD; (ii) with versus without 
concomitant AD medications; and (iii) Apolipoprotein E (ApoE4) carriers versus 
non-carriers. Data were pooled using a random effects model within a Bayesian 
framework.
RESULTS: There were 8010 participants (mean age: 71.5 years) across seven mAB 
trials, and 4993 participants (mean age:70.7 years) in nine AChEI trials. When 
compared to placebo, only mABs, not AChEIs, were associated with a slower 
progression of cognitive decline on CDR-SOB (mean difference -0.41 (95 % 
credible interval -0.61 to -0.22); minimally important difference (MID) -1) and 
ADAS-Cog (-1.35 (-2.36 to -0.36), MID -2); however, these benefits of mABs did 
not reach MID across the two cognitive measurements. Besides, mABs were 
associated with a slower progression of cognitive decline on CDR-SOB (-0.30 
(-0.60 to -0.001)) than AChEIs, although mABs and AChEIs did not differ across 
safety outcomes, including acceptability, tolerability, SAE, and all-cause 
mortality. Further analysis of mABs indicated that their efficacy did not differ 
by disease stage, concomitant AD medications, or APOE4 carrier status. However, 
APOE4 homozygotes carriers were associated with a 5.53-fold (2.48 to 13.07) 
increased odds of developing ARIA-E compared to non-carriers. Finally, lecanemab 
demonstrated relatively better efficacy and a more favorable profile on ARIA-E 
compared to aducanumab and donanemab.
CONCLUSIONS: mABs were associated with a slower progression of cognitive decline 
than AChEIs; however, this effect did not reach the MID. The incidence of ARIA-E 
with mABs was associated with APOE4 carrier status and was not indicative of 
treatment efficacy.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100195
PMCID: PMC12413725
PMID: 40316479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


48. Int J Pharm. 2025 May 30;677:125635. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2025.125635. Epub
 2025 Apr 30.

Intranasal administration of in silico designed Rivastigmine mucoadhesive 
nanoparticles ameliorates scopolamine-induced Alzheimer's symptoms in mice: 
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic evidences.

Kalra V(1), Silakari O(1), Tiwary AK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences & Drug Research, Punjabi University, 
Patiala 147002, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences & Drug Research, Punjabi University, 
Patiala 147002, India. Electronic address: ashokktiwary65@gmail.com.

The low oral bioavailability (36 %) of rivastigmine tartrate (RT), and the 
inconspicuous pharmacological target site has necessitated the need to explore 
alternative routes of delivery for effective management of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). The current study aimed to develop in silico designed polymeric 
nanoparticles (NPs) for the intranasal delivery of RT. Eudragit RL 100 (EDRL) 
was selected as mucoadhesive polymer because of its optimum binding affinity 
with RT and nasal mucin. These NPs were prepared using spray drying method by 
utilizing QbD approach. Yield, particle size, zeta potential, entrapment 
efficiency and drug loading were optimized using central composite design. 
Furthermore, the TEM and SEM analysis of RT-EDRL NPs, respectively, revealed the 
particle size in the range of 50-100 nm and their spherical shape. The in vitro 
and ex vivo release profiles revealed sustained drug release from RT-EDRL NPs as 
compared to RT solution. The intranasal administration of optimized NPs 
exhibited higher RT concentration in mice brain as compared to other routes. 
Higher direct transport percentage (DTP %) and drug targeting efficiency (DTE %) 
indicated direct transport of RT to the brain through the nose and was better 
than that observed after application of transdermal patch. The neuroprotective 
potential conferred by intranasal administration of in silico designed NPs in 
scopolamine induced amnesia mice seems to be a potential brain targeted delivery 
system for effective management of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2025.125635
PMID: 40316192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


49. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 15;999:177695. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177695.
Epub  2025 Apr 30.

Curcumin-enhanced stem cell exosomes: A novel approach to modulating 
neuroinflammation and improving cognitive function in a rat model of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Bashirrohelleh MA(1), Bavarsad K(2), Khodadadi A(3), Shohan M(4), Asadirad A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Ahvaz Jundishapur, University 
of Medical Sciences, Iran; Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Medical Basic 
Sciences Research Institute, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, 
Ahvaz, Iran.
(2)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Ahvaz Jundishapur University 
of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran; Persian Gulf Physiology Research Center, Ahvaz 
Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(3)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Ahvaz Jundishapur, University 
of Medical Sciences, Iran; Cancer, Petroleum and Environmental Pollutants 
Research Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(4)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Ahvaz Jundishapur, University 
of Medical Sciences, Iran.
(5)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Ahvaz Jundishapur, University 
of Medical Sciences, Iran; Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Medical Basic 
Sciences Research Institute, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, 
Ahvaz, Iran; Cancer, Petroleum and Environmental Pollutants Research Center, 
Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran. Electronic 
address: asadirad-a@ajums.ac.ir.

The effect of Curcumin-enhanced stem cell exosomes on the learning and memory 
impairment induced by streptozotocin (STZ) and neuro-inflammation in rats was 
evaluated. An animal model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) was established by 
intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of STZ (3 mg/kg) in male Wistar rats 
(250 ± 50 g). ICV STZ injections chronically reduce cerebral glucose uptake and 
produce other effects similar to pathological, molecular and behavioral features 
of AD. Numerous studies confirmed the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant 
properties of curcumin (a natural polyphenol) against free radicals, as well as 
its ability to inhibit the aggregation of proteins such as beta-amyloid and 
alpha-synuclein in disorders such as AD and Parkinson's disease. The use of 
extracellular vesicles has garnered a lot of interest in research studies 
because of the important roles that mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes play 
in permeability, retention, and drug delivery as well as their ability to reduce 
inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6). Furthermore, researches 
highlighted the positive effect of curcumin on neuronal differentiation of stem 
cells in vivo and in vitro. Since studies emphasized the ameliorating effect of 
curcumin-treated macrophage-exosomes on symptoms of Alzheimer's disease by 
inhibiting tau protein phosphorylation, we proposed that Curcumin-primed MSC 
exosomes may offer greater efficacy to alleviate AD compared to naïve MSC 
exosomes. In this study, we investigated the effect of curcumin in stimulating 
the anti-inflammatory potential of exosome-derived stem cells. We evaluated the 
effect of MSC-EXO and pre-treated MSC-EXO with curcumin (CUR-MSC-EXO) on 
inhibiting inflammation and memory and learning impairments. Following four 
intraperitoneal injections of MSC-EXO and CUR-MSC-EXO at a dosage of 30μg/body 
over 30 days, we found that MSC-EXO and CUR-MSC-EXO elevated anti-inflammatory 
cytokines (IL10, TGF-β) and reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL1, TNF-α) in 
peripheral blood compared to the AD group. The elevated level of M2 
anti-inflammatory microglia markers (Arg1, CD206) and decreased level expression 
of M1 pro-inflammatory markers (iNOS, CD86) indicated that the CUR-MSC-EXO 
effect was more significant in the polarization of microglia into the M2 
phenotype in the rat hippocampus. Both treatment groups demonstrated 
improvements in memory and learning skills. The results of the passive avoidance 
learning in the rats with STZ-induced memory impairment, however, were better in 
the CUR-MSC-EXO. Additionally, after therapy, a decrease in degenerative neurons 
was seen. Therefore, using curcumin may stimulate the anti-inflammatory and 
neuroprotective potential of exosome-derived stem cells which could provide hope 
for Alzheimer's disease treatment in the future.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177695
PMID: 40315951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


50. Neurobiol Aging. 2025 Aug;152:25-33. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2025.04.006.  Epub 2025 Apr 25.

Presenilin 1 hemizygosity has no overt deleterious phenotypic outcomes in sheep: 
Potential implications for therapeutic targets in Alzheimer's disease.

Mckean NE(1), Liu J(2), Rudiger SR(3), Kelly JM(4), McLaughlan C(5), Verma 
PJ(6), Hardy J(7), Gusella JF(8), Zetterberg H(9), Reid SJ(10), Handley RH(11), 
Lehnert K(12), Sutherland GT(13), Heslegrave A(14), Veleva E(15), Laban R(16), 
Pearson JF(17), Bawden SC(18), Snell RG(19).

Author information:
(1)Applied Translational Genetics Group, School of Biological Sciences, 
University of Auckland, Auckland 1010, New Zealand. Electronic address: 
natasha.mckean@auckland.ac.nz.
(2)Stem Cell and Genetic Engineering Group, Monash Institute of Medical 
Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Monash University, Victoria 3800, 
Australia; TIGRR Lab, The School of BioSciences, University of Melbourne, 
Victoria 3010, Australia. Electronic address: jun.liu9@unimelb.edu.au.
(3)Molecular Biology and Reproductive Technology Laboratories, Livestock and 
Farming Systems Division, South Australian Research and Development Institute, 
Roseworthy, South Australia 5371, Australia. Electronic address: 
Skye.Rudiger@sa.gov.au.
(4)Molecular Biology and Reproductive Technology Laboratories, Livestock and 
Farming Systems Division, South Australian Research and Development Institute, 
Roseworthy, South Australia 5371, Australia. Electronic address: 
jen.kelly@sa.gov.au.
(5)Molecular Biology and Reproductive Technology Laboratories, Livestock and 
Farming Systems Division, South Australian Research and Development Institute, 
Roseworthy, South Australia 5371, Australia. Electronic address: 
Clive.McLaughlan@sa.gov.au.
(6)Molecular Biology and Reproductive Technology Laboratories, Livestock and 
Farming Systems Division, South Australian Research and Development Institute, 
Roseworthy, South Australia 5371, Australia. Electronic address: 
Paul.Verma@sa.gov.au.
(7)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Dementia Research Institute, 
University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute 
at UCL John Hardy, London WC1E 6BT, UK. Electronic address: j.hardy@ucl.ac.uk.
(8)Center for Genomic Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital and Department of 
Genetics, Blavatnik Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
Electronic address: jGUSELLA@MGH.HARVARD.EDU.
(9)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Dementia Research Institute, 
University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute 
at UCL John Hardy, London WC1E 6BT, UK; Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, the Sahlgrenska Academy 
at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal S-431 80, Sweden; Clinical 
Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal S-431 80, 
Sweden; Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong 
Kong; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI 53792, USA. Electronic address: h.zetterberg@ucl.ac.uk.
(10)Applied Translational Genetics Group, School of Biological Sciences, 
University of Auckland, Auckland 1010, New Zealand.
(11)Applied Translational Genetics Group, School of Biological Sciences, 
University of Auckland, Auckland 1010, New Zealand. Electronic address: 
r.handley@auckland.ac.nz.
(12)Applied Translational Genetics Group, School of Biological Sciences, 
University of Auckland, Auckland 1010, New Zealand. Electronic address: 
klaus.lehnert@auckland.ac.nz.
(13)Neuroscience, School of Medical Sciences and Charles Perkins Centre, Faculty 
of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney, Sydney NSW 2050, Australia. 
Electronic address: g.sutherland@sydney.edu.au.
(14)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Dementia Research Institute, 
University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute 
at UCL John Hardy, London WC1E 6BT, UK. Electronic address: 
a.heslegrave@ucl.ac.uk.
(15)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Dementia Research Institute, 
University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute 
at UCL John Hardy, London WC1E 6BT, UK. Electronic address: e.veleva@ucl.ac.uk.
(16)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Dementia Research Institute, 
University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(17)Biostatistics and Computational Biology Unit, Department of Medicine, 
University of Otago, Christchurch 8011, New Zealand. Electronic address: 
john.pearson@otago.ac.nz.
(18)Molecular Biology and Reproductive Technology Laboratories, Livestock and 
Farming Systems Division, South Australian Research and Development Institute, 
Roseworthy, South Australia 5371, Australia. Electronic address: 
simon.bawden@sa.gov.au.
(19)Applied Translational Genetics Group, School of Biological Sciences, 
University of Auckland, Auckland 1010, New Zealand. Electronic address: 
r.snell@auckland.ac.nz.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition and one of the most 
significant medical challenges today. Dominant mutations causing early-onset AD 
have been identified in the presenilin 1 and 2 (PSEN1 and PSEN2), and the 
amyloid precursor protein (APP) genes. Either PSEN1 or PSEN2 is required by 
γ-secretase, a functional complex that cleaves APP to produce amyloid-beta (Aβ) 
peptides of varying lengths. These mutations result in relative or absolute 
increases in the longer Aβ peptides (Aβ1-40, Aβ 1-42), which accumulate as 
plaques, characteristic of both early and late-onset AD. To investigate the 
effects of modulating PSEN1 expression, we have produced PSEN1 hemizygous sheep. 
Sheep PSEN and APP genes are highly conserved relative to humans, including the 
APP proteolytic cleavage sites, and like humans, sheep naturally develop plaques 
and TAU tangles with age. At five years of age, the PSEN1 hemizygous animals are 
phenotypically and biochemically normal. Interestingly, the characteristic Aβ 
peptide levels in their cerebrospinal fluid and plasma remain at wildtype 
levels, indicating that a 50 % reduction in PSEN1 abundance does not materially 
affect γ-secretase's APP cleavage activity. These results suggest that 
generalized regulation of PSEN1 expression is unlikely to be an effective 
therapeutic approach for AD on its own. However, it does suggest that loss of 
one PSEN1 allele may be tolerated in higher organisms, with no deleterious 
side-effects. It is therefore possible that knocking-out or knocking-down one 
copy of PSEN1 via genetic modification will be tolerated in humans, especially 
as functional hemizygous humans are present in the population (gnomad). These 
kinds of therapies could potentially prevent AD caused by dominant 
gain-of-function mutations in PSEN1.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2025.04.006
PMID: 40315540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure statement JH has consulted for Eisai 
and Eli Lilly. JFG serves on the scientific advisory board of Transine 
Therapeutics, Inc. (dba Harness Therapeutics), has acted as a consultant to Wave 
Therapeutics USA Inc., Biogen Inc., and Pfizer Inc., and receives research 
funding from Pfizer, Inc. HZ has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as 
a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, 
Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given 
lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work). AH has served as a consultant for Quanterix 
and Lilly.


51. J Am Chem Soc. 2025 May 14;147(19):16661-16673. doi: 10.1021/jacs.5c04975.
Epub  2025 May 2.

Rabies Virus Targeting NIR-II Phototheranostics.

Ding Q(1), Wang C(2), Wang H(2), Xiang C(3), Wang Z(4), Wang Y(3), Zhao L(2), 
Vendrell M(5), Kim JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Korea University, Seoul 02841, Korea.
(2)National Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, Huazhong Agricultural 
University, Wuhan 430070, China.
(3)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nanomedicine, CAS-HK Joint Lab for Biomaterials 
Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shenzhen 518055, China.
(4)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision, and Brain 
Health), Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang 
Province, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 
325000, China.
(5)Centre for Inflammation Research and IRR Chemistry Hub, Institute for 
Regeneration and Repair, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH16 4UU, U.K.

Rabies is a viral disease with an almost 100% fatality rate, primarily 
transmitted through bites from infected animals, with a long incubation period 
and no effective clinical treatments to date. Herein, we developed the first 
fluorescent nanotheranostic probe in the second near-infrared (NIR-II) window 
capable of efficiently crossing the blood-brain barrier (BBB), precisely 
targeting rabies virus (RABV), and enabling safe photodynamic therapy (PDT). 
This probe is based on a novel NIR-II organic polyacetylene fluorophore, DK, 
which self-assembles via a click reaction with a nanoparticle carrier, 
N3-PEG2000-R, that we synthesized with a high biocompatibility and BBB 
permeability. The probe surface is further modified with an aptamer that 
specifically binds to RABV glycoprotein (RVG), resulting in our final 
nanotheranostic probe, DK@RA-PEG. Upon intravenous injection into mice, it 
effectively crosses the BBB, localizes to the infection site, and binds to the 
RVG, allowing for real-time NIR-II fluorescence imaging. Additionally, it 
efficiently converts light energy into chemical energy without generating 
thermal effects, ensuring safe and effective PDT. This advanced nanotheranostic 
probe integrates precise targeting, deep-tissue imaging, and safe therapy, 
making it a promising candidate for future clinical applications in rabies 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.5c04975
PMCID: PMC12082629
PMID: 40315345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


52. PLoS One. 2025 May 2;20(5):e0322572. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0322572. 
eCollection 2025.

The relationship between dementia staging scales, cognitive-behavioral scales 
and functionality in patients with cognitive impairment.

Kayhan Koçak FO(1), Kumral E(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Internal Medicine, Health Sciences 
University Tepecik Training and Research Hospital, İzmir, Turkiye.
(2)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Ege University, İzmir, Turkiye.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study is to retrospectively evaluate the 
relationship between dementia stage, cognitive and behavioral scales, and 
functional status in patients with cognitive impairment.
METHODS: The medical records of patients over 50 years of age, who were followed 
up for cognitive impairment at the neurology outpatient clinic were 
retrospectively scanned between January 1990 and November 2022. The Clinical 
Dementia Rating (CDR), Global Deterioration Scale (GDS) and Functional 
Assessment Staging Test (FAST), The Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the 
Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscore (ADAS-Cog) were 
recorded. The neuropsychiatric symptoms were evaluated by the Neuropsychiatric 
Inventory (NPI) and The Behavioral Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale 
(BEHAVE-AD). Patients' Instrumental Assessment of Daily Living (IADL) scores 
were recorded to assess functional capacity.
RESULTS: This study analyzed 871 patients with cognitive impairment, 69.8% of 
whom were having functional impairment. Alzheimer's disease was the most common 
type of dementia (64.6%), with memory problems as the key symptom (65.6%). 
Neuropsychiatric symptoms such as hallucinations, delusion, and eating 
disturbances were significantly associated with disability (p < 0.001), while 
depression and anxiety were not. CDR scale was the strongest predictor of 
disability (OR: 4.9, AUC = 0.740), outperforming other dementia staging scales. 
Cognitive and behavioral scales like MMSE and NPI showed stronger correlations 
with functional impairment than with the dementia staging scales 
(-0.132 < rs < 0.472, p < 0.001 and -0.284 < rs < -0.357, p < 0.001, 
respectively).
CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated that both cognitive status and behavioral 
symptoms are critical in determining the level of functional impairment in 
cognitive impairments, but their contributions differ in magnitude and focus. As 
well as cognitive decline, neuropsychiatric symptoms may also need targeted 
management to reduce their impact on functionality. We need a practical tool 
that can be used in all stages of dementia, that does not overlook the impact of 
neuropsychological symptoms, and that can assess ADL according to the needs of 
patients and carers.

Copyright: © 2025 Kayhan Koçak. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0322572
PMCID: PMC12047750
PMID: 40315238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Enter: The authors have declared that no 
competing interests exist.


53. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Sep;62(9):11696-11711. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04995-2.
Epub  2025 May 2.

Leaf miRNAs of Withania somnifera Negatively Regulate the Aging-Associated Genes 
in C. elegans.

Yadav S(1), Gupta RK(2), Kumar S(1), Rizvi A(1), Tyagi D(3), Satish A(3), Verma 
D(4), Vishwakarma A(4), Saxena S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Uttar 
Pradesh, Vidya Vihar, Lucknow, 226025, India.
(2)Department of Environmental Microbiology, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar 
University, Uttar Pradesh, Vidya Vihar, Lucknow, 226025, India. 
ravikumarcdri@gmail.com.
(3)Environmental Toxicology Group, CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, 
Uttar Pradesh, Vishvigyan Bhawan 31, Mahatma Gandhi Marg, Lucknow, 226001, 
India.
(4)Department of Environmental Microbiology, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar 
University, Uttar Pradesh, Vidya Vihar, Lucknow, 226025, India.
(5)Department of Biotechnology, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Uttar 
Pradesh, Vidya Vihar, Lucknow, 226025, India. dr_sangeeta_saxena@yahoo.com.

Aging is a physiological process that culminates in cellular senescence, a 
phenomenon that has significant implications for health and longevity. 
Plant-based therapeutics, particularly the root of Withania somnifera, have been 
reported to delay the onset and progression of aging and its associated 
disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and other 
neurodegenerative disorders. However, the role of leaf-derived microRNAs 
(miRNAs) from W. somnifera in the molecular regulation of genes involved in 
aging remains poorly understood. Caenorhabditis elegans serves as an 
indispensable model organism for studying aging-associated gene regulation due 
to its short lifespan, conserved human orthologs, and ease of laboratory 
cultivation. In this study, we explored the regulatory interactions between 
miRNAs derived from the leaf tissues of W. somnifera and aging-associated genes, 
utilizing C. elegans as a model organism. We employed bioinformatics to identify 
miRNAs that interact with aging-associated genes in C. elegans and found that 
three specific miRNAs in the leaf tissue of W. somnifera interacted with these 
genes. To assess the physiological effects of these miRNAs on C. elegans, we 
conducted biochemical assays, including lifespan, chemotaxis, and stress 
resistance assays. Additionally, we investigated the differential gene 
expression of the interacting genes in the presence and absence of W. somnifera 
leaf miRNA treatment using real-time PCR. The results indicated that the 
expression levels of the age-1 and sel-12 genes were significantly 
downregulated, while the apl-1 gene was upregulated following treatment with 
leaf miRNAs in C. elegans. These findings suggest that miRNAs derived from W. 
somnifera leaves may play a crucial role in regulating aging-associated gene 
expression. This is the first study, to our knowledge, that identifies the 
miRNAs of W. somnifera leaf involved in aging-associated gene regulation, 
thereby paving the way for future research into the therapeutic potential of 
plant-derived miRNAs in combating age-related disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04995-2
PMID: 40314900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


54. Jpn J Radiol. 2025 Sep;43(9):1541-1549. doi: 10.1007/s11604-025-01789-3. Epub
 2025 May 2.

Evaluation of amyloid PET positivity using machine learning on (18)F-FDG PET 
images.

Yamada T(1), Kimura Y(2), Watanabe S(3), Watanabe A(2)(4), Honda M(2), Nagaoka 
T(5), Nemoto M(5), Hanaoka K(6), Kaida H(6)(7), Kojita Y(7), Yamada M(6)(7), Im 
S(7), Kono A(7), Ishii K(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Positron Emission Tomography Institute of Advanced Clinical 
Medicine, Kindai University Hospital, 377-2 Ohno-Higashi, Osakasayama, Osaka, 
589-8511, Japan. h02yamada@med.kindai.ac.jp.
(2)Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Kindai University, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Department of Preventive Medicine and Epidemiology, National Cerebral and 
Cardiovascular Center, Osaka, Japan.
(4)Akita Cerebrospinal and Cardiovascular Center, Akita, Japan.
(5)Faculty of Biology-Oriented Science and Technology, Kindai University, 
Wakayama, Japan.
(6)Division of Positron Emission Tomography Institute of Advanced Clinical 
Medicine, Kindai University Hospital, 377-2 Ohno-Higashi, Osakasayama, Osaka, 
589-8511, Japan.
(7)Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, Kindai University, Osaka, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Since the approval of disease-modifying drugs for Alzheimer's 
disease, the demand for amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) scans, which 
are crucial for determining treatment eligibility, is expected to increase 
significantly. We thus investigated the ability of an algorithm to predict 
amyloid accumulation from 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET images for use in 
amyloid PET screening.
METHODS: We analyzed the images of 194 subjects with cognitive disorders who had 
undergone brain FDG-PET, amyloid PET using Pittsburgh compound-B (11C-PiB), and 
MRI scans at Kindai University Hospital between 2011 and 2018. Among them, 108 
subjects showed positive amyloid accumulation; the other 86 did not. For the 108 
positive cases, the input values were the region of interest-based calculated 
from the automatic anatomical labeling template, which divides the brain into 
120 regions, and applied to the anatomically standardized FDG-PET images of each 
subject. We then used a support vector machine (SVM) machine learning algorithm 
and conducted a tenfold cross-validation to assess the algorithm's accuracy for 
predicting amyloid accumulation from FDG-PET images.
RESULTS: We observed 81.5% accuracy, 78.5% sensitivity, 84.6% specificity, and 
an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.846 during training. The validation results 
for the trained model revealed 85.9% accuracy, 88.4% sensitivity, 81.0% 
specificity, and an AUC of 0.918.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that the performance of our algorithm to 
predict amyloid accumulation from 18FDG-PET images is adequate for use in 
amyloid PET scan screenings.

© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Radiological Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s11604-025-01789-3
PMID: 40314876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: This study 
was supported by a research grant from Nihon-Medi-Physics Corp. Kazunari Ishii 
has received funding from Nihon Medi-Physics for payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events. Ethical approval: This study was conducted with the approval of the 
Ethics Committee of the Kindai University Faculty of Medicine (R04-214). Using 
existing anonymized information and the opt-out method, the need to obtain 
written informed consent was waived by the clinical research review board. The 
procedures used in this study adhere to the tenets of the Declaration of 
Helsinki.


55. Geroscience. 2025 May 2. doi: 10.1007/s11357-025-01669-8. Online ahead of
print.

Anthocyanin supplementation in adults at risk for dementia: a randomized 
controlled trial on its cardiometabolic and anti-inflammatory biomarker effects.

Borda MG(1)(2)(3), Ramírez-Vélez R(4), Botero-Rodriguez F(5)(6)(7), 
Patricio-Baldera J(5)(8), de Lucia C(5)(9), Pola I(10), Barreto GE(11), Khalifa 
K(5), Bergland AK(5)(12), Kivipelto M(13), Cederholm T(13)(14)(15), Zetterberg 
H(16)(17)(18)(19)(20), Ashton NJ(5)(10)(21), Ballard C(22), Siow R(9)(23), 
Aarsland D(5)(9); NJ FINGER.

Collaborators: Lehtisalo J, Ngandu T, Kuroda Y, Hidenori A, Mangialasche F, 
Sugimoto T, Uchida K, Fujita K, Testad I, Gjestsen MT.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Age-Related Medicine (SESAM), Stavanger University Hospital, Helse 
Stavanger HF, Postboks 8100, 4068, Stavanger, Norway. mmborda@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. 
mmborda@gmail.com.
(3)Centro de Investigación en Ciencias de La Salud (CICSA), FCS, Universidad 
Anáhuac México, Huixquilucan Edo. de México, México. mmborda@gmail.com.
(4)Navarrabiomed, IdiSNA, Hospital Universitario de Navarra (CHN), Universidad 
Pública de Navarra (UPNA), Pamplona, Spain.
(5)Centre for Age-Related Medicine (SESAM), Stavanger University Hospital, Helse 
Stavanger HF, Postboks 8100, 4068, Stavanger, Norway.
(6)SynaptIA - Inteligencia artificial para la investigación en salud mental, 
Bogotá, Colombia.
(7)Centro de Memoria y Cognición Intellectus, Hospital Universitario San 
Ignacio, Bogotá, Colombia.
(8)Instituto de Investigación en Salud, Facultad de Ciencias de La Salud de La 
Universidad Autónoma de Santo Domingo, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
(9)Centre for Healthy Brain Ageing, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology, and 
Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(11)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Limerick, Limerick, 
Ireland.
(12)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(13)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department 
of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(14)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Clinical Nutrition and 
Metabolism, Uppsala University, 62167, Uppsala, Sweden.
(15)Theme Inflammation & Ageing, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(16)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(17)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(18)UK, Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(19)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(20)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(21)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, University of Arizona, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(22)Medical School, University of Exeter, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(23)School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine & Sciences, Faculty of Life 
Sciences & Medicine, British Heart Foundation Centre of Research Excellence, 
King's College London, London, UK.

Anthocyanins are dietary flavonoids shown to have a therapeutic capacity to 
mitigate inflammation and oxidative stress. The present secondary analyses from 
the "Anthocyanins in People at Risk for Dementia Study" were aimed at (I) 
determining the intervention's effect on blood-based markers of cardiovascular 
disease and inflammation and (II) evaluating whether baseline factors such as 
age, sex, inflammation, or cardiometabolic score may moderate the intervention's 
effect on inflammatory status. This study was an ancillary, 24-week randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II trial. Sub-sample participants 
(n = 99), aged 60-80 years with mild cognitive impairment or cardiometabolic 
disorders, were randomized to receive either 320 mg/day of anthocyanins or 
placebo. The biomarkers analyzed included inflammatory biomarker assessment 
(IL - 6, IL - 8, IL - 10, IL - 1b, TNF - α, IFN - γ), and C-reactive protein 
(CRP), as well as albumin, thrombocytes, cholesterol, LDL, HDL, and 
triglycerides, which were longitudinally compared between both groups. Baseline 
characteristics were balanced between the groups. ANCOVA analyses reveal 24-week 
differences favoring the anthocyanin treatment in LDL cholesterol levels 
(ƞp2 = 0.078; p = 0.015), cardiometabolic score (ƞp2 = 0.073; p = 0.021), CRP 
levels (ƞp2 = 0.417; p = 0.0001), IL - 6 (ƞp2 = 0.085; p = 0.015), IL - 1b 
(ƞp2 = 0.058; p = 0.037), and Inflam z-score 5 (ƞp2 = 0.059, p = 0.004). 
Moderation analysis demonstrated that the inflammatory score at baseline was a 
significant predictor of the effect of the intervention on the CRP levels. 
Anthocyanin supplementation reduces CRP and cardiovascular disease biomarkers in 
individuals at risk of dementia, especially when there is increased inflammation 
at baseline. ClinicalTrials.gov study identifier: NCT03419039.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-025-01669-8
PMID: 40314845

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study received approval from The Norwegian Regional Ethics 
Committee (2017/374) and was registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (identifier 
NCT03419039). All participants provided written informed consent in line with 
Good Clinical Practice guidelines before enrollment. Conflict of interest: AKB 
has received support for conference participation from Evonik. Other authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


56. Expert Rev Neurother. 2025 Jun;25(6):649-659. doi: 
10.1080/14737175.2025.2500752. Epub 2025 May 5.

Uncertainties in anti-amyloid monoclonal antibody therapy for Alzheimer's 
disease: the challenges ahead.

Lozupone M(1), Dibello V(2)(3), Resta E(4), Sardone R(5), Castellana F(2), Zupo 
R(2), Lampignano L(5), Bortone I(6), Mollica A(7), Berardino G(7), Altamura 
M(7), Bellomo A(7), Daniele A(8)(9), Solfrizzi V(2), Panza F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Biomedicine and Neuroscience "DiBrain", 
University of Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Interdisciplinary Medicine (DIM), "Cesare Frugoni" Internal and 
Geriatric Medicine and Memory Unit, University of Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy.
(3)Department of Orofacial Pain and Dysfunction, Academic Centre for Dentistry 
Amsterdam (ACTA), University of Amsterdam and Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Translational Medicine and Health System Management, Department of Economy, 
University of Foggia, Foggia, Italy.
(5)Unit of Statistics and Epidemiology, Local Healthcare Authority of Taranto, 
Taranto, Italy.
(6)Local Healthcare Authority of Bari, ASL Bari, Bari, Italy.
(7)Psychiatric Unit, Department of Clinical & Experimental Medicine, University 
of Foggia, Foggia, Italy.
(8)Department of Neuroscience, Catholic University of Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy.
(9)Neurology Unit, IRCCS Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli, Rome, 
Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD), the leading cause of dementia, poses a 
significant burden on patients, caregivers, and healthcare systems worldwide. 
After two decades of extensive efforts, we are still without significantly 
effective disease-modifying drugs for AD. Although brain amyloid-β (Aβ) 
accumulation may predict cognitive decline, several drug candidates, including 
anti-Aβ monoclonal antibodies, have been developed and tested to reduce Aβ 
plaque burden effective, but without significant clinical success.
AREAS COVERED: The following review presents and discusses anti-Aβ monoclonal 
antibody therapeutics used to treat AD. The article considers both current 
approaches and alternatives. This article is multiple database searches 
(MEDLINE, EMBASE, Scopus, Ovid and Google Scholar) on all the available 
literature up to 1 February 2025.
EXPERT OPINION: Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) of anti-Aβ drugs in AD have 
not fully validated the Aβ cascade hypothesis. Nevertheless, eight anti-Aβ 
monoclonal antibodies have, thus far, made it to Phase III RCTs. Moving forward, 
the use of the Apolipoprotein E genotype and tau protein as alternative 
biomarkers can assist clinicians in providing patients with even more 
individualized and efficacious anti-Aβ monoclonal antibodies dosing regimens and 
reduce the risk of serious amyloid-related imaging abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1080/14737175.2025.2500752
PMID: 40314575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Neural Regen Res. 2025 Apr 29. doi: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01419. Online ahead
of  print.

The role of gut microbiota-mitochondria crosstalk in neurodegeneration: 
Underlying mechanisms and potential therapies.

Ju T(1), Zhang Y, Liu L, Zhao X, Li X, Liu C, Sun S, Wu LA.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oral & Maxillofacial Reconstruction and Regeneration, 
National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, Shaanxi Clinical Research 
Center for Oral Diseases, Department of Pediatric Dentistry, School of 
Stomatology, The Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, 
China.

Emerging evidence suggests that the gut microbiota is closely associated with 
the pathological manifestations of multiple neurodegenerative diseases via the 
gut-brain axis, which refers to the crosstalk between the gut and the central 
nervous system. More importantly, mitochondria have been considered prominent 
mediators of the interplay between the gut microbiota and the brain. Intestinal 
microbes may modulate mitochondrial function in the central nervous system to 
affect the progression of neurodegenerative diseases. Mitochondria are essential 
for meeting the host's substantial neuronal metabolic demands, maintaining 
excitability, and facilitating synaptic transmission. Dysfunctional mitochondria 
are considered critical hallmarks of various neurodegenerative diseases. 
Therefore, this review provides novel insights into the intricate roles of gut 
microbiota-mitochondrial crosstalk in the underlying mechanisms during the 
progression of neurodegeneration, as well as the existing potential therapeutic 
strategies for neurodegenerative disorders. These suggest intestinal 
microbiota-mitochondrial interaction play a crucial role in the occurrence and 
development of neurodegenerative diseases, and targeting this interaction may be 
a promising therapeutic approach to neurodegenerative diseases. However, this 
review found that there was relatively little research on the effect of this 
crosstalk on other neurodegenerative diseases, such as Huntington's disease and 
Multiple sclerosis, and the potential therapeutic strategies were translated 
into clinical trials, which face many challenges in developing personalized 
treatment plans based on the unique gut microbiota of different individuals.

Copyright © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01419
PMID: 40314217


58. JACS Au. 2025 Mar 31;5(4):1519-1537. doi: 10.1021/jacsau.5c00002. eCollection
 2025 Apr 28.

Advancing Nanomaterial-Based Strategies for Alzheimer's Disease: A Perspective.

Zhou H(1)(2), Yin X(3), Zhang G(1), Yang Z(4), Zhou R(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Quantitative Biology, College of Life Sciences, College of 
Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China.
(2)Department of Medical Laboratory, School of Medicine, Shaoxing University, 
Shaoxing 312000, China.
(3)Center of Translational Medicine and Clinical Laboratory, The Fourth 
Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Medical Center of Soochow University, 
Suzhou Medical College of Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Radiation Medicine and Protection, School for 
Radiological and Interdisciplinary Sciences (RAD-X), Soochow University, Suzhou 
215123, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder and the most 
common cause of dementia. By 2050, the number of AD cases is projected to exceed 
131 million, placing significant strain on healthcare systems and economies 
worldwide. The pathogenesis of AD is multifactorial, involving 
hypotheses/mechanisms, such as amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques, tau protein 
hyperphosphorylation, cholinergic neuron damage, oxidative stress, and 
inflammation. Despite extensive research, the complexity of these potentially 
entangled mechanisms has hindered the development of treatments that can reverse 
disease progression. Nanotechnology, leveraging the unique physical, electrical, 
magnetic, and optical properties of nanomaterials, has emerged as a promising 
approach for AD treatment. In this Perspective, we first outlined the major 
current pathogenic hypotheses of AD and then reviewed recent advances in 
nanomaterials in addressing these hypotheses. We have also discussed the 
challenges in translating nanomaterials into clinical applications and proposed 
future directions, particularly the development of multifunctional and 
multitarget nanomaterials, to enhance their therapeutic efficacy and clinical 
applicability in AD treatment.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/jacsau.5c00002
PMCID: PMC12041962
PMID: 40313833

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


59. Food Sci Nutr. 2025 Apr 30;13(5):e70131. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.70131. eCollection
 2025 May.

The Impact of Thermal Treatment and In Vitro Digestion on Antioxidant Activity 
and Anti-Glycation Properties of Antioxidant Crude Extract From Hot and Cold 
Brew Spent Coffee Ground.

Chongsrimsirisakhol O(1), Jangchud K(1), Wilde PJ(2), Pirak T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Product Development, Faculty of Agro-Industry Kasetsart 
University Bangkok Thailand.
(2)Quadram Institute Bioscience Norwich UK.

The ethanoic extract of hot-brew spent-coffee ground (HSCG) and cold-brew 
spent-coffee ground (CSCG) were prepared with ultrasound-assisted extraction and 
subjected to thermal processes and in vitro digestion prior to analyze the 
inhibition ability of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) formation, a 
potential risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. The obtained HSCG and CSCG 
extracts contained mainly chlorogenic acid derivatives, according to liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometer chromatogram. The glycation process was 
performed by using bovine serum albumin (BSA)/ glucose system with 3 weeks 
incubation. In the presence of HSCG and CSCG extracts at 250 μg/mL, after 
thermal treatment (pasteurization and sterilization) and in vitro digestion, the 
glycation process through the fructosamine, AGEs, and amyloid cross β structure 
formation was monitored, and these extracts exhibited an anti-glycation property 
at early and advanced stages after pasteurization and in vitro digestion 
compared to no thermal treatment. However, at high temperature of sterilization, 
the suppress of anti-glycation property had resulted and were related with the 
amount of antioxidant and the ability of antioxidant scavenging as presented in 
a dose manner. The calculated % caffeine bio-accessibility of HSGC extracts was 
65.8%, 64.8%, and 52.4% in non-thermal, pasteurized, and sterilized samples 
while the higher bio-accessibility was found in CSCG sample as of 67.4, 66.6, 
and 63.1, respectively. A high correlation of TPC values, thermal treatments and 
in vitro digestions with the AGEs was detected. Polyphenols and caffeine content 
in these extracts were found to be responsible for the AGEs and amyloid cross β 
structure inhibition which might potentially reduce the risk of Alzheimer's 
disease.

© 2025 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.70131
PMCID: PMC12041663
PMID: 40313794

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


60. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Apr 17;16:1574323. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1574323. 
eCollection 2025.

Polydatin attenuates Alzheimer's disease induced by aluminum chloride in rats: 
evidence for its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects.

Zarneshan SN(1), Fakhri S(2), Kiani A(2)(3), Abbaszadeh F(4), Hosseini SZ(1), 
Mohammadi-Noori E(2), Echeverría J(5).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(2)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Health Institute, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(3)Regenerative Medicine Research Center, Health Technology Institute, 
Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(4)Neurobiology Research Center, Institute of Neuroscience and Cognition, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Departamento de Ciencias del Ambiente, Facultad de Química y Biología, 
Universidad de Santiago de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

BACKGROUND: Considering the complex pathophysiological mechanisms behind 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), a few drugs for managing related cognitive symptoms 
have been approved. The phytochemical resveratrol has shown promising 
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects in AD, but it has low bioavailability. 
Chemical modification of resveratrol to its glycosylated form, polydatin (PD), 
significantly increases its bioavailability and bioactivity.
PURPOSE: The study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms 
of action of PD against AD in rats.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: AD was caused by an intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration 
of aluminum chloride (AlCl3). Six groups of six rats each were defined as sham, 
negative control (AlCl3), positive control (Donepezil), and treatments (PD 5, 
10, and 20 mg/kg, i.p.). On days 7, 8, 14, and 15, the rats' behavioral changes 
were assessed by the open field, Y-maze test, passive avoidance test, and 
elevated plus maze tests. At the end of the study, the blood samples were 
collected to assess the levels of glutathione (GSH), catalase (CAT), and 
nitrite, as well as the activity of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). 
Furthermore, hippocampal brain tissue was removed and used for histological 
investigations.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The findings revealed that PD injections at three 
different doses (5, 10, and 20 mg/kg) improved cognitive and other behavioral 
impairments. Furthermore, PD improved the antioxidant capacity by increasing GSH 
and CAT while decreasing serum nitrite levels. PD showed anti-inflammatory 
effects by reducing the activity of inflammatory MMP-9, while elevating the 
activity of anti-inflammatory MMP-2. PD also modulated pathogenic changes in the 
hippocampal brain tissue.
CONCLUSION: PD alleviated cognitive and other behavioral impairments in AD rats 
by enhancing antioxidant defenses and reducing neuroinflammation.

Copyright © 2025 Zarneshan, Fakhri, Kiani, Abbaszadeh, Hosseini, Mohammadi-Noori 
and Echeverría.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1574323
PMCID: PMC12043686
PMID: 40313624

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.61. Front Cell Neurosci. 2025 Apr 17;19:1549265. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1549265.
 eCollection 2025.

Mitochondrial stress disassembles nuclear architecture through proteolytic 
activation of PKCδ and Lamin B1 phosphorylation in neuronal cells: implications 
for pathogenesis of age-related neurodegenerative diseases.

Charli A(1), Chang YT(2), Luo J(1), Palanisamy B(1), Malovic E(1), Riaz Z(2), 
Miller C(2), Samidurai M(2), Zenitsky G(2), Jin H(2), Anantharam V(2), 
Kanthasamy A(2), Kanthasamy AG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Parkinson's Disorder Research Laboratory, Iowa Center for Advanced 
Neurotoxicology, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Iowa State University, Ames, 
IA, United States.
(2)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Isakson Center for Neurological 
Disease Research, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, United States.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Nov 01:2024.11.01.621517. doi: 10.1101/2024.11.01.621517.

Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are central to the pathogenesis 
of neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and 
Huntington's diseases. Neurons, particularly dopaminergic (DAergic) ones, are 
highly vulnerable to mitochondrial stress; however, the cellular and molecular 
mechanisms underlying this vulnerability remain poorly understood. Previously, 
we demonstrated that protein kinase C delta (PKCδ) is highly expressed in 
DAergic neurons and mediates apoptotic cell death during neurotoxic stress via 
caspase-3-mediated proteolytic activation. Herein, we further uncovered a key 
downstream molecular event of PKCδ signaling following mitochondrial dysfunction 
that governs neuronal cell death by dissembling nuclear architecture. Exposing 
N27 DAergic cells to the mitochondrial complex-1 inhibitor tebufenpyrad (Tebu) 
induced PKCδ phosphorylation at the T505 activation loop accompanied by 
caspase-3-dependent proteolytic activation. High-resolution 3D confocal 
microscopy revealed that proteolytically activated cleaved PKCδ translocates to 
the nucleus, colocalizing with Lamin B1. Electron microscopy also visualized 
nuclear membrane damage in Tebu-treated N27 cells. In silico analyses identified 
threonine site on Lamin B1 (T575) as a phosphorylation site of PKCδ. 
Interestingly, N27 DAergic cells stably expressing a PKCδ cleavage-resistant 
mutant failed to induce nuclear damage, PKCδ activation, and Lamin B1 
phosphorylation. Furthermore, CRISPR/Cas9-based stable knockdown of PKCδ greatly 
attenuated Tebu-induced Lamin B1 phosphorylation. Also, studies using the Lamin 
B1T575G phosphorylation mutant and PKCδ-ΔNLS-overexpressing N27 cells showed 
that PKCδ activation and translocation to the nuclear membrane are essential for 
phosphorylating Lamin B1 at T575 to induce nuclear membrane damage during Tebu 
insult. Additionally, Tebu failed to induce Lamin B1 damage and Lamin B1 
phosphorylation in organotypic midbrain slices cultured from PKCδ-/- mouse pups. 
Postmortem analyses of PD brains revealed significantly higher PKCδ activation, 
Lamin B1 phosphorylation, and Lamin B1 loss in nigral DAergic neurons compared 
to age-matched healthy controls, demonstrating the translational relevance of 
these findings. Collectively, our data reveal that PKCδ functions as a Lamin B1 
kinase to disassemble the nuclear membrane during mitochondrial stress-induced 
neuronal death. This mechanistic insight may have important implications for the 
etiology of age-related neurodegenerative diseases resulting from mitochondrial 
dysfunction as well as for the development of novel treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2025 Charli, Chang, Luo, Palanisamy, Malovic, Riaz, Miller, 
Samidurai, Zenitsky, Jin, Anantharam, Kanthasamy and Kanthasamy.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1549265
PMCID: PMC12043892
PMID: 40313592

Conflict of interest statement: AGK has an equity interest in PK Biosciences 
Corporation and Probiome Therapeutics located in Ames, Iowa. The terms of this 
arrangement have been reviewed and approved by the Iowa State University and the 
University of Georgia in accordance with their conflict-of-interest policies. 
The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of 
any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest.


62. Front Cell Neurosci. 2025 Apr 17;19:1571428. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1571428.
 eCollection 2025.

Chronic palmitoylethanolamide administration via slow-release subcutaneous 
pellets promotes neuroprotection and mitigates neuroinflammation in the Tg2576 
mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Tortolani D(#)(1)(2), Decandia D(#)(1)(3), Giacovazzo G(1)(2), Scipioni L(1)(4), 
Panuccio A(1)(3), Ciaramellano F(1), Eugelio F(5), Fanti F(5), Latagliata EC(1), 
La Barbera L(1)(6), Cutuli D(1)(3), Compagnone D(5), D'Amelio M(1)(6), 
Coccurello R(1)(7), Oddi S(1)(2), Petrosini L(1), Maccarrone M(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)European Center for Brain Research, Fondazione Santa Lucia IRCCS, Rome, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Teramo, Teramo, Italy.
(3)Department of Psychology, University Sapienza of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Biotechnological and Applied Clinical Sciences, University of 
L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(5)Department of Bioscience and Technology for Food, Agriculture and 
Environment, University of Teramo, Teramo, Italy.
(6)Department of Medicine and Surgery, Università Campus Bio-Medico di Roma, 
Rome, Italy.
(7)Institute for Complex Systems (ISC), National Council of Research (CNR), 
Rome, Italy.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by cognitive and non-cognitive decline associated with 
neuropathological hallmarks, including neuroinflammation. Palmitoylethanolamide 
(PEA), an endogenous lipid with anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective 
properties, has emerged as a promising therapeutic agent in managing AD. This 
study investigated the therapeutic effects of chronic (6-months) PEA 
administration via subcutaneous pellet in Tg2576 mice, a validated model of AD. 
The impact of PEA on amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing, astrocytic 
activation, microglial reactivity and neuroinflammation, nitrosative stress, 
dendritic spine density in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, and cognitive 
performance was assessed. Chronic PEA treatment of Tg2576 mice increased the 
expression of the α-secretase ADAM9 and reduced astrogliosis. Furthermore, PEA 
attenuated microglia reactivity, downregulated pro-inflammatory (CXCL13, MCP-1, 
GCSF) and upregulated anti-inflammatory (CXC3CL1 and IL-9) cytokine expression. 
Chronic PEA administration also decreased protein nitrosylation, downregulated 
calcineurin expression, restored dendritic spine density, and improved cognitive 
functions. Chronic PEA administration offers a promising therapeutic approach 
for AD by mitigating neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and synaptic 
dysfunction, ultimately leading to cognitive function restoration.

Copyright © 2025 Tortolani, Decandia, Giacovazzo, Scipioni, Panuccio, 
Ciaramellano, Eugelio, Fanti, Latagliata, La Barbera, Cutuli, Compagnone, 
D’Amelio, Coccurello, Oddi, Petrosini and Maccarrone.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1571428
PMCID: PMC12043567
PMID: 40313591

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


63. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Apr 24:2025.02.27.25322892. doi: 
10.1101/2025.02.27.25322892.

Development and clinical validation of blood-based multibiomarker models for the 
evaluation of brain amyloid pathology.

Weber DM(1), Stroh MA(1), Taylor SW(1), Lagier RJ(1), Louie JZ(1), Clarke NJ(1), 
Vaillancourt DE(2)(3)(4)(5), Rayaprolu S(6)(7), Duara R(3)(8), Racke MK(1).

Author information:
(1)Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute, San Juan Capistrano, CA.
(2)Department of Applied Physiology and Kinesiology, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(3)1Florida ADRC, University of Florida, Gainesville FL.
(4)Norman Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(5)J. Crayton Pruitt Family Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL.
(7)Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative Disease, 1Florida 
ADRC, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL.
(8)Wien Center for Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders, Mount Sinai Medical 
Center, Miami Beach, Florida, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Plasma biomarkers provide new tools to evaluate 
patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) for Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathology. Such tools are needed for anti-amyloid therapies that require 
efficient and accurate diagnostic evaluation to identify potential treatment 
candidates. This study sought to develop and evaluate the clinical performance 
of a multi-marker combination of plasma beta-amyloid 42/40 (Aβ42/40), ptau-217, 
and APOE genotype to predict amyloid PET positivity in a diverse cohort of 
patients at a memory clinic and evaluate >4,000 results from "real-world" 
specimens submitted for high-throughput clinical testing.
METHODS: Study participants were from the 1Florida AD Research Center (ADRC). 
Demographics, clinical evaluations, and amyloid PET scan data were provided with 
plasma specimens for model development for the intended-use cohort (MCI/AD: 
n=215). Aβ42/40 and ApoE4 proteotype (reflecting high-risk APOE 4 alleles) were 
measured by mass spectrometry and ptau-217 by immunoassay. A likelihood score 
model was determined for each biomarker separately and in combination. Model 
performance was optimized using 2 cutpoints, 1 for high and 1 for low likelihood 
of PET positivity, to attain ≥90% specificity and sensitivity. These cutpoints 
were applied to categorize 4,326 real-world specimens and an expanded cohort 
stratified by cognitive status (normal cognition [NC], MCI, AD).
RESULTS: For the intended-use cohort (46.0% prevalence of PET-positivity), a 
combination of Aβ42/40, ptau-217, and APOE4 allele count provided the best model 
with a receiver operating characteristic area under the curve (ROC-AUC) of 0.942 
and with 2 cutpoints fixed at 91% sensitivity and 91% specificity yielding a 
high cutpoint with 88% positive predictive value (PPV) and 87% accuracy and a 
low cutpoint with 91% negative predictive value (NPV) and 85% accuracy. 
Incorporating APOE4 allele count also reduced the percentage of patients with 
indeterminate risk from 15% to 10%. The cutpoints categorized the real-world 
clinical specimens as having 42% high, 51% low, and 7% indeterminate likelihood 
for PET positivity and differentiated between NC, MCI, and AD dementia cognitive 
status in the expanded cohort.
DISCUSSION: Combining plasma biomarkers Aβ42/40, ptau-217, and APOE4 allele 
count is a scalable approach for evaluating patients with MCI for suspected AD 
pathology.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.02.27.25322892
PMCID: PMC12045422
PMID: 40313266


64. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;105(3):860-869. doi: 10.1177/13872877251333086.
Epub  2025 May 2.

Quantitatively assessing daily functional impairment in dementia by imaging 
cerebrovascular correlates.

Tu MC(1)(2)(3), Yu YK(4), Chung HW(1), Hsu YH(5)(6), Yang JJ(7), Wu WC(1)(8).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Biomedical Electronics and Bioinformatics, National 
Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Neurology, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(3)School of Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Nursing, Taichung Tzu Chi Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical 
Foundation, Taichung, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Psychology, National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi, Taiwan.
(6)Center for Innovative Research on Aging Society, National Chung Cheng 
University, Chiayi, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Medical Imaging, Taichung Tzu Chi Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi 
Medical Foundation, Taichung, Taiwan.
(8)Institute of Medical Device and Imaging, National Taiwan University College 
of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.

BackgroundImpaired daily functioning can change day-to-day activities at the 
early stage of dementia, in varied association with cognitive decline and/or 
affective symptoms. Current clinical practice uses scales to assess daily 
functioning and can be prone to subject/proxy-related bias.ObjectiveTo 
investigate the yet unclear cerebrovascular correlate of daily activities and 
the usefulness of cerebral blood flow (CBF) as a quantitative marker of 
functional impairment.MethodsNinety patients with clinically diagnosed dementia 
and 30 healthy controls were prospectively recruited. Regional CBF within the 
frontotemporal-subcortical circuits was quantified by magnetic resonance 
imaging, compared between control and CBF-stratified patient groups, and then 
correlated with basic and instrumental activities of daily living.ResultsLower 
CBF was found to associate with impaired daily activities in most of the regions 
investigated after adjusted for the effect of age and Mini-Mental State 
Examination score. Analyses of partial correlation and receiver operating 
characteristic further revealed that impaired basic activities of daily living 
was best detected by the baseline CBF in the right middle temporal gyrus, with 
the area under the curve (AUC) = 0.860 (p < 0.001). Impaired instrumental 
activities of daily living was best detected by the CBF in the right superior 
temporal gyrus (AUC = 0.695, p < 0.001). The CBF in the two regions showed no 
significant detecting ability for anxiety and depression.ConclusionsWe 
identified the cerebrovascular correlates of daily functioning in line with the 
previously conceptualized role of frontotemporal-subcortical circuits, allowing 
quantitative assessment of daily activities with minimal confounding from 
affective symptoms.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251333086
PMID: 40313166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


65. Neural Regen Res. 2026 Apr 1;21(4):1409-1427. doi:
10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01507.  Epub 2025 Apr 29.

Inherent potential of mitochondria-targeted interventions for chronic 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Zhou M(1), Zheng M(1), Liang S(1), Li M(1), Ma J(1), Zhang S(1), Song X(1), Hu 
Y(2), Lyu Y(1), Ou X(2), Yue C(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Yan'an Key Laboratory of Microbial Drug Innovation and Transformation, Yan'an 
Medical College of Yan'an University, Yan'an, Shaanxi Province, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Kweichow Moutai Hospital, Zunyi, Guizhou 
Province, China.
(3)Engineering and Technological Research Center for Conversation and 
Utilization of Regional Biological Resources, Yan'an University, Yan'an, Shaanxi 
Province, China.

The cure rate for chronic neurodegenerative diseases remains low, creating an 
urgent need for improved intervention methods. Recent studies have shown that 
enhancing mitochondrial function can mitigate the effects of these diseases. 
This paper comprehensively reviews the relationship between mitochondrial 
dysfunction and chronic neurodegenerative diseases, aiming to uncover the 
potential use of targeted mitochondrial interventions as viable therapeutic 
options. We detail five targeted mitochondrial intervention strategies for 
chronic neurodegenerative diseases that act by promoting mitophagy, inhibiting 
mitochondrial fission, enhancing mitochondrial biogenesis, applying 
mitochondria-targeting antioxidants, and transplanting mitochondria. Each method 
has unique advantages and potential limitations, making them suitable for 
various therapeutic situations. Therapies that promote mitophagy or inhibit 
mitochondrial fission could be particularly effective in slowing disease 
progression, especially in the early stages. In contrast, those that enhance 
mitochondrial biogenesis and apply mitochondria-targeting antioxidants may offer 
great benefits during the middle stages of the disease by improving cellular 
antioxidant capacity and energy metabolism. Mitochondrial transplantation, while 
still experimental, holds great promise for restoring the function of damaged 
cells. Future research should focus on exploring the mechanisms and effects of 
these intervention strategies, particularly regarding their safety and efficacy 
in clinical settings. Additionally, the development of innovative 
mitochondria-targeting approaches, such as gene editing and nanotechnology, may 
provide new solutions for treating chronic neurodegenerative diseases. 
Implementing combined therapeutic strategies that integrate multiple 
intervention methods could also enhance treatment outcomes.

Copyright © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01507
PMCID: PMC12407529
PMID: 40313114

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


66. Neural Regen Res. 2025 Apr 29. doi: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01127. Online ahead
of  print.

Synaptic pruning mechanisms and application of emerging imaging techniques in 
neurological disorders.

Xing Y(1)(2)(3), Mo Y(1)(4), Chen Q(1)(4), Li X(1)(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Prevention and Treatment of Cardiovascular and 
Cerebrovascular Diseases of Ministry of Education, Gannan Medical University, 
Ganzhou, Jiangxi Province, China.
(2)Institute for Department of Physiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Gannan Medical University, Ganzhou, Jiangxi Province, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Anyang Maternal and Child Health Hospital, Anyang, 
Henan Province, China.
(4)Ganzhou Key Laboratory of Neuroinflammation Research, Gannan Medical 
University, Ganzhou, Jiangxi Province, China.
(5)Jiangxi Province Key Laboratory of Pharmacology of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Gannan Medical University, Ganzhou, Jiangxi Province, China.

Synaptic pruning is a crucial process in synaptic refinement, eliminating 
unstable synaptic connections in neural circuits. This process is triggered and 
regulated primarily by spontaneous neural activity and experience-dependent 
mechanisms. The pruning process involves multiple molecular signals and a series 
of regulatory activities governing the "eat me" and "don't eat me" states. Under 
physiological conditions, the interaction between glial cells and neurons 
results in the clearance of unnecessary synapses, maintaining normal neural 
circuit functionality via synaptic pruning. Alterations in genetic and 
environmental factors can lead to imbalanced synaptic pruning, thus promoting 
the occurrence and development of autism spectrum disorder, schizophrenia, 
Alzheimer's disease, and other neurological diseases. In this review, we 
investigated the molecular mechanisms responsible for synaptic pruning during 
neural development. We focus on how synaptic pruning can regulate neural 
circuits and its association with neurological disorders. Furthermore, we 
discuss the application of emerging optical and imaging technologies to observe 
synaptic structure and function, as well as their potential for clinical 
translation. Our aim was to enhance our understanding of synaptic pruning during 
neural development, including the molecular basis underlying the regulation of 
synaptic function and the dynamic changes in synaptic density, and to 
investigate the potential role of these mechanisms in the pathophysiology of 
neurological diseases, thus providing a theoretical foundation for the treatment 
of neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01127
PMID: 40313098


67. Neural Regen Res. 2026 Mar 1;21(3):1037-1057. doi:
10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01412.  Epub 2025 Apr 29.

Regulation of synaptic function and lipid metabolism.

Zhang T(1), Yin Y(1), Xia X(1), Que X(1), Liu X(2), Zhao G(3), Chen J(4), Chen 
Q(4), Xu Z(4), Tang Y(1)(5), Qin Q(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology & Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The First Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, China.
(3)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Beijing Key Laboratory of Neural Regeneration and 
Repair, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(5)National Center for Neurological Disorders, Beijing, China.

Synapses are key structures involved in transmitting information in the nervous 
system, and their functions rely on the regulation of various lipids. Lipids 
play important roles in synapse formation, neurotransmitter release, and signal 
transmission, and dysregulation of lipid metabolism is closely associated with 
various neurodegenerative diseases. The complex roles of lipids in synaptic 
function and neurological diseases have recently garnered increasing attention, 
but their specific mechanisms remain to be fully understood. This review aims to 
explore how lipids regulate synaptic activity in the central nervous system, 
focusing on their roles in synapse formation, neurotransmitter release, and 
signal transmission. Additionally, it discusses the mechanisms by which glial 
cells modulate synaptic function through lipid regulation. This review shows 
that within the central nervous system, lipids are essential components of the 
cell membrane bilayer, playing critical roles in synaptic structure and 
function. They regulate presynaptic vesicular trafficking, postsynaptic 
signaling pathways, and glial-neuronal interactions. Cholesterol maintains 
membrane fluidity and promotes the formation of lipid rafts. 
Glycerophospholipids contribute to the structural integrity of synaptic 
membranes and are involved in the release of synaptic vesicles. Sphingolipids 
interact with synaptic receptors through various mechanisms to regulate their 
activity and are also involved in cellular processes such as inflammation and 
apoptosis. Fatty acids are vital for energy metabolism and the synthesis of 
signaling molecules. Abnormalities in lipid metabolism may lead to impairments 
in synaptic function, affecting information transmission between neurons and the 
overall health of the nervous system. Therapeutic strategies targeting lipid 
metabolism, particularly through cholesterol modulation, show promise for 
treating these conditions. In neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's 
disease, Parkinson disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, dysregulation of 
lipid metabolism is closely linked to synaptic dysfunction. Therefore, lipids 
are not only key molecules in neural regeneration and synaptic repair but may 
also contribute to neurodegenerative pathology when metabolic dysregulation 
occurs. Further research is needed to elucidate the specific mechanisms linking 
lipid metabolism to synaptic dysfunction and to develop targeted lipid therapies 
for neurological diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01412
PMCID: PMC12296456
PMID: 40313084

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


68. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;105(3):825-836. doi: 10.1177/13872877251332659.
Epub  2025 May 1.

Sharing patient technology preferences with care networks: Stakeholders' views 
of the "Let's Talk Tech" decision aid for dementia care.

Berridge C(1), Turner NR(1), Lober WB(2), Demiris G(3), Kaye J(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(2)Clinical Informatics Research Group, School of Nursing, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Department of Biobehavioral and Health Sciences, School of Nursing and 
Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Informatics, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Layton Aging and Alzheimer's Disease Center and Oregon Center for Aging and 
Technology, School of Medicine, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, 
OR, USA.

BackgroundLet's Talk Tech (LTT) is a self-administered web intervention for 
people with memory loss and their care partners that supports decision-making 
about digital health technologies. In past work, dyads wanted to share LTT 
preference reports with their larger care networks.ObjectiveThis study aims to 
understand with whom care dyads want to share their technology preference 
reports and why, and if and how clinicians want to receive them.MethodsTogether, 
fifteen dyads of people living with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or 
early-stage dementia (n = 15) and a care partner (n = 15) completed LTT and two 
survey questions. Care partners completed independent follow-up interviews, and 
32 clinicians at four Alzheimer's Disease Research Center-affiliated clinics 
viewed an LTT report and completed a 10-question survey. We used descriptive 
statistics for survey responses and thematic analysis for 
interviews.ResultsTwo-thirds of care partners (n = 10) wanted to share the 
report with family members. Half (n = 8) wanted to share it with clinicians to 
keep them informed about the dyad's planning and facilitate conversations about 
technology options. 30 of 32 clinicians reported they would want their patients' 
technology preferences reports, with 25 wanting to access it via the electronic 
health record (EHR).ConclusionsFindings demonstrate potential value to both 
family dyads and providers of sharing technology preferences beyond the care 
dyad. Clinicians were highly receptive to accessing technology preference 
reports in EHRs and to having discussions about technology be a part of advance 
care planning. Future research should test integration in the EHR and the 
potential of sharing technology preferences to support person-centered 
technology choices.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251332659
PMID: 40313054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


69. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;105(3):745-750. doi: 10.1177/13872877251331243.
Epub  2025 May 1.

Donanemab eligibility in early Alzheimer's disease: A real-world study.

Urso D(1), Introna A(2), Gnoni V(1), Giugno A(1), Vilella D(1), Zecca C(1), De 
Blasi R(3), Giannoni-Luza S(1), Logroscino G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases and the Aging Brain, Department of 
Clinical Research in Neurology, University of Bari 'Aldo Moro', Tricase, Italy.
(2)Department of Translational Biomedicine and Neurosciences (DiBraiN), 
University of Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, "Pia Fondazione Cardinale G. Panico", 
Tricase, Italy.

This study evaluates the real-world eligibility of patients with early 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) for donanemab, a monoclonal antibody targeting amyloid 
plaques. At a tertiary center in Italy, 408 patients with mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) or mild AD were assessed against clinical trial criteria. While 
41% were amyloid-positive, only 10.05% met eligibility for treatment, primarily 
due to exclusions for amyloid biomarkers, medical conditions, and MRI findings. 
These results highlight the gap between trial populations and real-world 
patients. Balancing efficacy with safety remains a key challenge in expanding 
access to anti-AD immunotherapy like donanemab in routine clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251331243
PMID: 40313052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsGiancarlo 
Logroscino has served as investigator for clinical trials sponsored by Biogen 
Pharmaceuticals, Axovant, Alector, Denali, Roche, Eisai, Genentech, Amylyx, PIAM 
Farmaceutici SpA.He has served as a consultant and has given Lectures for EISAI, 
Roche, Lilly, Piam Farmaceutici Spa, Biogen. Daniele Urso is an Editorial Board 
Member of this journal but was not involved in the peer-review process of this 
article nor had access to any information regarding its peer-review. The 
remaining authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


70. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2025 May 9;28(5):pyaf028. doi:
10.1093/ijnp/pyaf028.

Cognitive improvement effects of PF-04957325, a phosphodiesterase-8 inhibitor, 
in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease via modulating neuroinflammation.

Guo TY(1), Zhang M(2)(3), Lv YL(1), Qiu NZ(1), Chen RM(1), Zhang FF(1), Chen 
W(1), Zhang F(1), Gao YF(1), Wang XD(1), Zhang XH(1), Chen MH(1), Zhang 
HT(1)(4), Wang H(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology, Shandong First Medical University & Shandong 
Academy of Medical Sciences, Tai'an, Shandong, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Key Laboratory of Molecular Pharmacology and Drug 
Evaluation (Yantai University), Ministry of Education, Yantai University, 
Yantai, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Drug Delivery and Release Systems, Shandong 
Luye Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Yantai, Shandong, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Qingdao University School of Pharmacy, Qingdao, 
Shandong, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease 
characterized by memory deficit and has emerged as a growing global health 
concern. Phosphodiesterase-8 (PDE8) is a cyclic adenosine monophosphate 
(cAMP)-specific hydrolase and its correlation with AD pathogenesis remains 
underexplored. Here, the effects and mechanisms of PF-04957325 (denoted as PF), 
a PDE8 inhibitor, were investigated in reversing AD both in vitro and in vivo.
METHODS: Briefly, BV2 cells were incubated with amyloid-β oligomers (AβO) to 
construct an AD cell model. Then, 2-month-old male C57BL/6J mice injected with 
AβO into the hippocampus and 10-month-old male amyloid precursor 
protein/presenilin-1 (APP/PS1) mice were used to construct AD animal models. 
Cells and mice were treated with PF to observe the effects of PDE8 on behavior 
and pathology related to AD. The Y-maze, novel object recognition (NOR), and 
Morris water maze (MWM) were performed to investigate cognitive function in 
mice. Western blot and immunofluorescence staining were used to identify the 
microglial activation state. Lastly, Western blot and ELISA were conducted to 
determine the levels of inflammatory factors and the proteins of PDE8/cAMP/CREB 
signaling.
RESULTS: PF-04957325 pretreatment reversed the conversation of proinflammatory 
microglia in BV2 cells induced by AβO, while also suppressing the levels of 
inflammatory factors, including interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis 
factor-α, inducible nitric oxide synthase , and cyclooxygenase-2. In addition, 
AβO incubation upregulated the expression of PDE8 and concurrently downregulated 
that of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), cAMP, p-PKA/PKA, and 
p-CREB/CREB in BV2 cells, all of which were reversed by PF. In vivo experiments 
evidenced impaired performance in the Y-maze, NOR, and MWM; these effects were 
reversed by PF. Similarly, PF treatment significantly attenuated microglia 
activation and the release of the inflammatory factors, and reversed the changes 
in the expression of BDNF and PDE8/cAMP/CREB signaling in AD mice. Finally, PF 
reduced the generation of Aβ1-42 by suppressing the expression of APP and PS1 in 
APP/PS1 mice.
CONCLUSIONS: PF alleviated AD-like changes in behavior and pathology through 
various mechanisms, including attenuating microglia-mediated neuroinflammation, 
upregulating the expression of BDNF, restoring synaptic dysfunction, and 
inhibiting Aβ generation, which appear to be involved by PDE8/cAMP/CREB 
signaling. These results highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting PDE8 
inhibition for AD treatment.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of CINP.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyaf028
PMCID: PMC12116884
PMID: 40312965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nat Commun. 2025 May 1;16(1):4094. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-59252-w.

Altered extracellular matrix structure and elevated stiffness in a brain 
organoid model for disease.

Karlinski Zur M(1)(2)(3), Bhattacharya B(1)(3), Solomonov I(2), Ben Dror S(4), 
Savidor A(5), Levin Y(5), Prior A(5), Sapir T(1)(3), Harris T(6), Olender T(1), 
Schmidt R(7)(8), Schwarz JM(9), Sagi I(10), Buxboim A(11)(12)(13), Reiner 
O(14)(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, 
Israel.
(2)Department of Immunology and Regenerative Biology, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovot, Israel.
(3)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, Weizmann Institute, Rehovot, Israel.
(4)The Institute of Life Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, The 
Edmond J. Safra Campus, Jerusalem, Israel.
(5)The De Botton Protein Profiling Institute of the Nancy and Stephen Grand 
Israel National Center for Personalized Medicine, Weizmann Institute of Science, 
Rehovot, Israel.
(6)Department of Chemical Research Support, Weizmann Institute of Science, 
Rehovot, Israel.
(7)Department of Brain Sciences, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.
(8)The Azrieli National Institute for Human Brain Imaging and Research, Weizmann 
Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.
(9)Physics Department, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(10)Department of Immunology and Regenerative Biology, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovot, Israel. Irit.Sagi@weizmann.ac.il.
(11)The Institute of Life Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, The 
Edmond J. Safra Campus, Jerusalem, Israel. amnon.buxboim@mail.huji.ac.il.
(12)School of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, The Edmond J. Safra Campus, Jerusalem, Israel. 
amnon.buxboim@mail.huji.ac.il.
(13)The Alexender Grass Center for Bioengineering, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, The Edmond J. Safra Campus, Jerusalem, Israel. 
amnon.buxboim@mail.huji.ac.il.
(14)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, 
Israel. orly.reiner@weizmann.ac.il.
(15)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, Weizmann Institute, Rehovot, Israel. 
orly.reiner@weizmann.ac.il.

The viscoelastic properties of tissues influence their morphology and cellular 
behavior, yet little is known about changes in these properties during brain 
malformations. Lissencephaly, a severe cortical malformation caused by LIS1 
mutations, results in a smooth cortex. Here, we show that human-derived brain 
organoids with LIS1 mutation exhibit increased stiffness compared to controls at 
multiple developmental stages. This stiffening correlates with abnormal 
extracellular matrix (ECM) expression and organization, as well as elevated 
water content, measured by diffusion-weighted MRI. Short-term MMP9 treatment 
reduces both stiffness and water diffusion levels to control values. 
Additionally, a computational microstructure mechanical model predicts 
mechanical changes based on ECM organization. These findings suggest that LIS1 
plays a critical role in ECM regulation during brain development and that its 
mutation leads to significant viscoelastic alterations.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-59252-w
PMCID: PMC12045990
PMID: 40312467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


72. J Acad Consult Liaison Psychiatry. 2025 Jul-Aug;66(4):320-330. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaclp.2025.04.003. Epub 2025 Apr 29.

A Comparative Study of Anticipatory Grief in Caregivers of Patients With 
Alzheimer's Disease and Hematological Malignancy.

Türk U(1), Aydemir MÇ(2), Özel-Kizil ET(3), Civriz Bozdağ S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Ankara University School of Medicine, Ankara, 
Türkiye. Electronic address: drumutturk@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Ankara University School of Medicine, Ankara, 
Türkiye.
(3)Geriatric Psychiatry Unit, Department of Psychiatry, Ankara University School 
of Medicine, Ankara, Türkiye.
(4)Department of Hematology, Ankara University School of Medicine, Ankara, 
Türkiye.

BACKGROUND: Anticipatory grief (AG) is a common experience that affects 
caregivers of patients with chronic illnesses, particularly Alzheimer's disease. 
Cognitive disorders leading to social death produce a greater impact on the 
relationship, and thus on AG, than physical disorders.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to examine the prevalence and severity 
of AG in caregivers of patients with major neurocognitive disorder due to 
Alzheimer's disease (MNCD-AD) compared to hematological malignancies and to 
identify the characteristics associated with AG.
METHODS: A total of 132 dyads (patients and their caregivers) completed measures 
of AG, caregiver burden, anxiety, and depressive symptoms, as well as mental 
status.
RESULTS: The point prevalence of significant AG was similar in the MNCD-AD 
(57.6%) and hematological malignancy (51.5%) groups. There was no statistically 
significant difference between the groups in terms of the severity of AG (48.77 
± 17.98 vs 44.18 ± 15.57, respectively). However, the personal sacrifice burden 
was significantly higher in the MNCD-AD group (P = 0.043). The severity of AG of 
caregivers is correlated with caregiver burden (r = 0.735), cognitive decline (r 
= 0.575), and neuropsychiatric symptoms (R = 0.627) of the MNCD-AD patient.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study highlighted that the disease type can 
influence the AG of caregivers in a qualitative rather than a quantitative 
manner. Future studies are recommended to consider effects of psychological or 
interpersonal factors on AG. In addition, psychiatric comorbidities among family 
caregivers of MNCD-AD patients should be examined.

Copyright © 2025 Academy of Consultation-Liaison Psychiatry. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaclp.2025.04.003
PMID: 40312012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Jun;311(Pt 1):143696. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143696. Epub 2025 Apr 29.

Molecular structure and protein function of mitochondrial fusion protein Mfn2 
alleviate Alzheimer's disease: exercise assisted regulation.

Li H(1).

Author information:
(1)Zhoukou Polytechnic, Zhoukou, Henan 466000, China. Electronic address: 
lihailei123@126.com.

Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disease that affects cognitive 
function. Recent studies have shown that mitochondrial dysfunction plays an 
important role in its pathological process. The mitochondrial fusion protein 
Mfn2 plays a crucial role in maintaining mitochondrial function and cellular 
health. The aim of this study is to explore the molecular structure of 
mitochondrial fusion protein Mfn2 and its role in Alzheimer's disease, combined 
with the effects of exercise assisted regulation, to evaluate its potential in 
alleviating symptoms. By constructing a brain model of Alzheimer's disease, 
conducting pathological analysis and molecular dynamics simulations, we aim to 
explore the relationship between the disease and mitochondrial function. Analyze 
the molecular structure of Mfn2, study its role in normal and pathological 
states, and evaluate its impact on Mfn2 and mitochondrial function through 
exercise intervention. The study demonstrated the typical pathological features 
of Alzheimer's disease and confirmed the relationship between mitochondrial 
dysfunction and disease progression. The structural analysis of mitochondrial 
fusion protein Mfn2 indicates its importance in promoting mitochondrial fusion. 
Exercise intervention significantly increased the expression of Mfn2 and 
improved mitochondrial function, further alleviating pathological changes 
associated with Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143696
PMID: 40311967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


74. J Biotechnol. 2025 Aug;404:186-198. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2025.04.020. Epub 
2025 Apr 29.

Biotechnological approaches for the production of neuroactive huperzine A.

Fatima M(1), Boonruamkaew P(2), Yang M(3), Jaisi A(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Walailak University, Thasala, Nakhon Si Thammarat 80160, 
Thailand; College of Graduate Studies, Walailak University, Thasala, Nakhon Si 
Thammarat 80160, Thailand. Electronic address: mubeenfatima98@gmail.com.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Walailak University, Thasala, Nakhon Si Thammarat 80160, 
Thailand. Electronic address: phetcharat.bo@wu.ac.th.
(3)National Tobacco Cultivation, Physiology and Biochemistry Research Center, 
College of Tobacco Science, Henan Agricultural University, Zhengzhou, Henan, 
China. Electronic address: mengquan_yang@outlook.com.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Walailak University, Thasala, Nakhon Si Thammarat 80160, 
Thailand; Biomass and Oil Palm Center of Excellence, Walailak University, 
Thasala, Nakhon Si Thammarat 80160, Thailand. Electronic address: 
amit.ja@mail.wu.ac.th.

Huperzine A (HupA), a natural Lycopodium alkaloid primarily derived from 
Huperzia serrata, has gained attention for its potent neuroprotective 
properties, particularly its ability to inhibit acetylcholinesterase and 
modulate key neurological pathways. This review highlights HupA's therapeutic 
potential in managing neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Multiple sclerosis, Epilepsy, and 
Myasthenia gravis drawing on a comprehensive literature survey of in vitro, in 
vivo, and clinical investigation data. Given the limited yield from natural 
sources, this review also focuses on biotechnological strategies to enhance HupA 
production. These include chemical synthesis, microbial fermentation using 
endophytic fungi, plant tissue culture, and emerging synthetic biology 
approaches. Key biosynthetic intermediates and enzymes, such as lysine 
decarboxylase, copper amine oxidase, and cytochrome P450s, are discussed in the 
context of metabolic pathway elucidation and engineering. The review emphasizes 
the need to bridge current knowledge gaps in HupA biosynthesis to develop 
cost-effective, sustainable production methods. Advances in metabolic pathway 
elucidation and engineering hold immense potential for scalable biosynthetic 
production. Ultimately, the integration of HupA into neurotherapeutic regimens, 
coupled with innovations in its production, could revolutionize the management 
of neurodegenerative disorders and position it as a cornerstone of future 
multi-targeted treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2025.04.020
PMID: 40311807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Amit Jaisi reports financial 
support was provided by Thailand Science Research and Innovation Fund. If there 
are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.


75. Immunity. 2025 May 13;58(5):1269-1288.e12. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2025.04.006.
 Epub 2025 Apr 30.

Monocytes can efficiently replace all brain macrophages and fetal liver 
monocytes can generate bona fide SALL1(+) microglia.

Bastos J(1), O'Brien C(2), Vara-Pérez M(1), Mampay M(1), van Olst L(3), 
Barry-Carroll L(4), Kancheva D(1), Leduc S(1), Lievens AL(1), Ali L(1), Vlasov 
V(1), Meysman L(1), Shakeri H(1), Roelandt R(5), Van Hove H(1), De Vlaminck 
K(1), Scheyltjens I(1), Yaqoob F(2), Lombroso SI(6), Breugelmans M(7), Faron 
G(7), Gomez-Nicola D(8), Gate D(3), Bennett FC(9), Movahedi K(10).

Author information:
(1)Brain and Systems Immunology Laboratory, Brussels Center for Immunology, 
Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)The Ken & Ruth Davee Department of Neurology, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, Southampton General Hospital, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK; Nutrineuro, UMR 1286 INRAE, Bordeaux University, 
Bordeaux INP, Bordeaux, France.
(5)VIB Single Cell Core, VIB, Ghent/Leuven, Belgium; Department of Biomedical 
Molecular Biology, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA; Department of Systems Pharmacology and 
Translational Therapeutics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Prenatal Medicine, UZ Brussel, VUB, Brussels, 
Belgium.
(8)School of Biological Sciences, Southampton General Hospital, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA; Division of Neurology, Children's Hospital 
of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(10)Brain and Systems Immunology Laboratory, Brussels Center for Immunology, 
Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address: 
kiavash.movahedi@vub.be.

Microglia and border-associated macrophages (BAMs) are critical for brain 
health, and their dysfunction is associated to disease. Replacing brain 
macrophages holds substantial therapeutic promise but remains challenging. Here, 
we demonstrate that monocytes can efficiently replace all brain macrophages. 
Monocytes readily replaced embryonal BAMs upon their depletion and engrafted as 
monocyte-derived microglia (Mo-Microglia) upon more sustained niche 
availability. Mo-Microglia expanded comparably to their embryonic counterparts 
and showed similar longevity. However, monocytes were unable to replicate the 
distinct identity of embryonically derived BAMs and microglia. Using 
xenotransplantation, we found that human monocytes exhibited similar behavior, 
enabling identification of putative Mo-Microglia in Alzheimer's disease 
individuals. In mice and humans, monocyte ontogeny shaped their identity as 
brain macrophages. Importantly, mouse fetal liver monocytes exhibited a distinct 
epigenetic landscape and could develop a bona fide microglial identity. Our 
results illuminate brain macrophage development and highlight monocytes as an 
abundant progenitor source for brain macrophage replacement therapies.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2025.04.006
PMCID: PMC12094688
PMID: 40311613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests F.C.B. is a co-inventor 
on a patent filed by The Board of Trustees of The Leland Stanford Junior 
University (application 16/566,675) related to methods of microglia replacement. 
F.C.B. holds shares in NovoGlia Inc. D.G. has been a consultant/adviser relating 
to Alzheimer’s therapies for Merck and Novo Nordisk.


76. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Sep;62(9):11666-11680. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04960-z.
Epub  2025 May 1.

A Gut Microbial Metabolite Alleviates Stress-Induced Neurobehavioral Dysfunction 
in an Alzheimer's Disease Model.

Hochuli N(#)(1)(2), Kadyan S(#)(1)(2), Park G(1)(2), Patoine C(1)(2), Nagpal 
R(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)The Gut Biome Lab, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL, 32306, USA.
(2)Department of Health, Nutrition, and Food Sciences, Florida State University, 
Tallahassee, FL, 32306, USA.
(3)The Gut Biome Lab, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL, 32306, USA. 
rnagpal@fsu.edu.
(4)Department of Health, Nutrition, and Food Sciences, Florida State University, 
Tallahassee, FL, 32306, USA. rnagpal@fsu.edu.
(5)Center for Integrative Nutrition and Food Research, College of Education, 
Health, and Human Sciences, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL, 32306, 
USA. rnagpal@fsu.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Chronic psychological stress is a known risk factor for neurodegenerative 
disorders like Alzheimer's disease (AD), but its role in AD neuropathology 
remains unclear. Using the water-avoidance stress model in the APP/PS1 
preclinical mouse model of AD, we investigate how chronic stress exacerbates 
neurobehavioral dysfunction and cognitive impairment and explore the 
neuroprotective potential of indole-3-propionate (IPA), a microbiome-derived 
metabolite, in mitigating these effects. Our findings show that psychological 
stress leads to depression- and anxiety-like behaviors, as indicated by reduced 
grooming and exploration behaviors; however, these effects are ameliorated by 
IPA supplementation. Stress also disrupts the gut microbiome and promotes 
intestinal inflammation. While IPA does not significantly alter microbiome 
composition, it mitigates inflammation by normalizing IL-17a and TGF-β gene 
expression and reducing TNF-⍺ and IL-6 protein levels. Although stress has a 
limited effect on hippocampal inflammation, IPA suppresses low-grade 
neuroinflammation by downregulating IL-1β, TNF-⍺, IL-6, and MCP-1 protein 
levels. Additionally, IPA treatment tends to reduce hippocampal amyloid-β 
plaques. These findings highlight the detrimental effects of chronic 
psychosocial stress on AD pathology and suggest that IPA may confer 
neuroprotection through the gut-immune-brain axis, supporting the therapeutic 
potential of microbial metabolites in mitigating cognitive decline.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04960-z
PMID: 40310548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: The study 
protocol was approved in line with the animal ethics requirements of the 
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee at Florida State University 
(Protocol #202100008). Competing interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


77. Brain Sci. 2025 Mar 21;15(4):327. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15040327.

Expanding the Applicability of Cognitive Charts to the Entire Age Span.

Gourdeau C(1), Légaré-Baribeau MP(2), Bernier P(3), Laforce R(2).

Author information:
(1)Département de Physique, Cégep Limoilou, Quebec City, QC G1J 5L5, Canada.
(2)Département des Sciences Neurologiques, Clinique Interdisciplinaire de 
Mémoire (CIME), CHU de Québec, Québec, QC G1J 1Z4, Canada.
(3)Services Gériatriques Spécialisés, CIUSSS de la Capitale-Nationale, Quebec 
City, QC G1M 2R9, Canada.

Background/Objectives: We previously developed Cognitive Charts (CCs) for early 
detection and/or longitudinal evaluation of age-associated cognitive decline on 
widely used cognitive screening measures such as the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (CC-MMSE) and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (CC-MoCA). Similar 
to growth curves used in Pediatrics, clinicians can quickly interpret an 
individual's performance on the MMSE or MoCA, track the patient's longitudinal 
cognitive trajectory, and subsequently intervene earlier based on the findings 
(see quoco.org). This has proven very helpful to frontline clinicians, 
particularly in light of the newly approved monoclonal antibodies for treatment 
of Alzheimer's disease. To this date, however, the CC-MMSE and CC-MoCA only 
applied to limited age ranges. We validated herein our CCs across the entire age 
span. Methods: Two datasets were obtained from the National Alzheimer's 
Coordinating Center, for a total of 32,560 individuals. We examined average MMSE 
and MoCA scores for younger individuals compared to the current age thresholds 
and ensured consistency of age-related Cognitive Quotient scores. Results: In 
this study, both MMSE and MoCA scores show very little variation below the age 
threshold. If the age is fixed at the threshold in the QuoCo calculation, the 
resulting score remains constant within this range. Furthermore, CCs performed 
similar or better in younger individuals. Conclusions: Our findings again 
emphasize the clinical significance of CCs as a tool for monitoring cognitive 
changes across the entire age span, hence maximizing early detection and 
appropriate treatment monitoring.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15040327
PMCID: PMC12026361
PMID: 40309796

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


78. World J Psychiatry. 2025 Apr 19;15(4):102542. doi: 10.5498/wjp.v15.i4.102542.
 eCollection 2025 Apr 19.

Meta-analysis of the effect of cognitive stimulation therapy on cognitive 
function in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

Lu YT(1), Zhang X(2), Cheng J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Shenyang Mental Health Center, Shenyang 110000, 
Liaoning Province, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Shenyang First People's Hospital, Shenyang 110000, 
Liaoning Province, China. zhangxin0321sy@163.com.
(3)Second Department of Psychology, Shenyang Mental Health Center, Shenyang 
110000, Liaoning Province, China.

BACKGROUND: There is no effective treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 
pharmacological treatment of AD in clinical settings is expensive and prolonged, 
resulting in a huge psychological and economic burden on the patient's family 
and caregivers and society as a whole, AD is characterized by progressive, 
worsening cognitive impairment, and there are currently no drugs that can 
effectively reverse cognitive impairment. However, it is important to intervene 
early or delay cognitive impairment so that the condition can be delayed and, 
ultimately, the burden on patients and families can be reduced through 
maintenance treatment. It may be that non-pharmacological interventions such as 
cognitive stimulation therapy (CST) can help with cognitive dysfunction.
AIM: To provide a better treatment plan for AD patients and delay the 
deterioration of cognitive function, the effect of CST on cognitive function in 
AD was studied by Meta-analysis.
METHODS: Comprehensive search the Chinese and English databases were 
comprehensively searched by computer. Chinese databases: China Biomedical 
Literature Database (CBM), Wanfang Database, VIP Database, and China Periodicals 
Full-text Database (CNKI). The collection time limit is from July 21, 2010 to 
July 21, 2022 randomized controlled trials literature on the effects of CST on 
cognitive function in patients with AD. According to the inclusion and exclusion 
criteria, literature screening, data extraction, and quality evaluation were 
performed. Standardized mean difference (SMD) and 95%CI were used as evaluation 
criteria to evaluate the cognitive function of CST in AD patients. Sensitivity 
analysis and publication bias detection were performed on the results. 
Publication bias was assessed using funnel plots, and funnel plot symmetry was 
assessed with Eggr's test.
RESULTS: CST can not improve Mental State Examination Scale (MMSE) scores in AD 
patients. Meta-analysis of CST on MMSE scores showed that the heterogeneity was 
P = 0.14, I 2 = 35%. I 2 = 35% < 50%, and the Q test P > 0.1, choose the random 
effect model to integrate statistics, get SMD = 0.02, 95%CI: -0.37, 0.42, P > 
0.05. Meta-analysis of CST on AD Cognitive Functioning Assessment Scale scores 
showed that the heterogeneity was P = 0.13, I 2 = 36%. I 2 = 36% < 50 choose a 
fixed effect model to integrate statistics, get SMD = -0.01, 95%CI: -0.40, 0.39, 
P > 0.05, the difference is not statistically significant. Meta-analysis of CST 
on the cognitive function indicators of patients showed that the heterogeneity 
was P = 0.17, I 2 = 31%. I 2 = 31% < 50%, the fixed effect model showed SMD = 
0.01, 95%CI: -0.37, 0.38, P > 0.05, the difference was not statistically 
significant.
CONCLUSION: CST may not improve the cognitive function of AD patients, not 
improve the cognitive function of AD patients, not improve the ability of daily 
living, and not reduce mental behavior can improve the cognitive function of AD 
patients.

©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.5498/wjp.v15.i4.102542
PMCID: PMC12038668
PMID: 40309593

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: Authors have no 
conflict of interest to declare.


79. Policy Insights Behav Brain Sci. 2025 Mar;12(1):94-101. doi: 
10.1177/23727322241303761. Epub 2024 Dec 19.

Psychological Stress and Cognitive Brain Health: Policies to Reduce Dementia 
Risk.

Graham-Engeland JE(1)(2), Sliwinski MJ(1)(3), Almeida DM(1)(3), Engeland 
CG(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)The Center for Healthy Aging, The Pennsylvania State University, State 
College, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Biobehavioral Health, The Pennsylvania State University, State 
College, PA, USA.
(3)Human Development and Family Studies, The Pennsylvania State University, 
State College, PA, USA.
(4)The Ross and Carol Nese College of Nursing, The Pennsylvania State 
University, State College, PA, USA.

Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) pose a massive public health 
challenge, affecting over 6.7 million Americans aged 65 and older-a number 
projected to double by 2050. Despite advances in pharmacological treatments, 
there remains no cure or method to reverse the disease. This paper highlights 
the role of psychological stress as a critical yet underappreciated risk factor 
for cognitive decline and reviews its complex interplay with behavioral, social, 
and biological mechanisms. Chronic psychological stress drives physiological and 
behavioral changes that are linked to accelerated cognitive deterioration, 
particularly in older adults. Early interventions can target stress management 
and behavioral prevention strategies, which include physical activity, healthy 
diet, and social engagement. Further, key barriers to meaningful policy change 
to prevent and slow ADRD include lack of public awareness, stigma around mental 
health and aging, and misaligned funding incentives. Policy initiatives can 
improve brain health literacy, increase equitable access to services, and 
enhance community-level and environmental factors to promote healthy aging. 
Prioritizing stress reduction and promoting early detection and prevention can 
meaningfully reduce ADRD risk and progression, improving public health broadly.

DOI: 10.1177/23727322241303761
PMCID: PMC12043074
PMID: 40309518

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


80. NeuroImmune Pharm Ther. 2025 Feb 10;4(1):27-38. doi: 10.1515/nipt-2024-0018. 
eCollection 2025 Mar.

HIV-1 infection facilitates Alzheimer's disease pathology in humanized APP 
knock-in immunodeficient mice.

Bhattarai S(1), Kadry R(1), Yeapuri P(1), Lu Y(1), Foster EG(1), Zhang C(1), 
Dash P(1), Poluektova LY(1), Gorantla S(1), Mosley RL(1), Gendelman HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience, College of 
Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Science, Omaha, NE, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Amyloid-β (Aβ) plaque deposition in the brain is a principal 
pathological feature of both Alzheimer's disease (AD) and progressive human 
immunodeficiency virus type one (HIV-1) infection. Both enable Aβ assembly and 
Aβ protein aggregation. The potential link between HIV-1 and AD remains 
uncertain, supporting the need for a reliable animal model. HIV-1 is tropic and 
pathogenic for humans. It does not replicate in mice. The restricted species 
tropism has slowed progress in basic research activities. The current study 
seeks to correct animal model limitations.
METHODS: We created an AD mouse to address the need to develop an small animal 
model that allows studies of viral infection by making a knock-in (KI) with the 
human amyloid precursor protein (APP)KM670,671NL Swedish mutation to the mouse 
genome. The resulting founder mice were crossed with immunodeficient NOG (NOD. 
Cg-Prkdc scid Il2rg tm1Sug Tg(CMV-IL-34)1/Jic) to generate 
NOG/APPKM670,671NL/IL-34 (NAIL) mice. The mice were reconstituted with human 
hematopoietic stem cells to generate NAIL mice with functional adaptive and 
innate human immune systems. Four-month-old, humanized NAIL mice were infected 
with HIV-1ADA, a macrophage-tropic viral strain then evaluated for viral 
infection and AD pathology.
RESULTS: Productive HIV-1 infection was confirmed by plasma HIV-1 RNA levels in 
infected NAIL mice. The viral load increased by tenfold between day 10 and day 
25 post-infection. By day 25, viral DNA confirmed the establishment of HIV-1 
reservoirs in CD45+ cells from the immune tissues of infected NAIL mice. 
Additionally, p24 measurements in lymphoid and brain tissues of NAIL mice 
validated productive HIV-1 infection. Amyloid burden from infected NAIL mice was 
increased. Immunofluorescence staining revealed co-localization of Aβ fibrils 
and HLA-DR+ microglia in infected NAIL mice.
CONCLUSIONS: These results highlight the AD-HIV model's unique pathobiological 
and infectious features where the viral and immune responses can now be 
measured.

© 2024 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/nipt-2024-0018
PMCID: PMC12041850
PMID: 40309515

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: H.E.G. is a member of the 
scientific advisory board at Longevity Biotech and a co-founder of Exavir 
Therapeutics, Inc. All other authors declare no conflict of interest.


81. NeuroImmune Pharm Ther. 2024 Nov 18;4(1):1-11. doi: 10.1515/nipt-2024-0013. 
eCollection 2025 Mar.

Oligonucleotide therapeutics for neurodegenerative diseases.

Li V(1), Huang Y(2).

Author information:
(1)University High School, Irvine, CA, USA.
(2)Ting Therapeutics, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA.

Recently there has been a surge in interest involving the application of 
oligonucleotides, including small interfering RNA (siRNA) and antisense 
oligonucleotides (ASOs), for the treatment of chronic diseases that have few 
available therapeutic options. This emerging class of drugs primarily operates 
by selectively suppressing target genes through antisense and/or RNA 
interference mechanisms. While various commercial medications exist for 
delivering oligonucleotides to the hepatic tissue, achieving effective delivery 
to extra hepatic tissues remains a formidable challenge. Here, we review recent 
advances in oligonucleotide technologies, including nanoparticle delivery, local 
administration, and 2'-O-hexadecyl (C16)-conjugation that work to extend the 
applicability of siRNAs and ASOs to nerve tissues. We discuss critical factors 
pivotal for the successful clinical translations of these modified or engineered 
oligonucleotides in the context of treating neurodegenerative diseases such as 
Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

© 2024 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/nipt-2024-0013
PMCID: PMC12041848
PMID: 40309514

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Dr. Yunlong Huang is an 
employee of Ting Therapeutics, Inc.. The research presented in this publication 
was conducted as part of Ting Therapeutics’ ongoing research program. Ting 
Therapeutics provided funding and resources for this study. The authors declare 
that there are no other conflicts of interest regarding the publication of this 
paper.


82. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Apr 16;16:1599048. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1599048. 
eCollection 2025.

Re-evaluation of the efficacy and safety of anti-Aβ monoclonal antibodies 
(lecanemab/donanemab) in the treatment of early Alzheimer's disease.

Wang H(1), Pan J(1), Zhang M(1), Tan Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Tuina, First Affiliated Hospital, Heilongjiang University of 
Chinese Medicine, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically evaluate the efficacy and safety of anti-Aβ 
monoclonal antibodies (Lecanemab/Donanemab) in the treatment of early 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and to provide evidence for rational clinical use.
METHODS: We searched databases including PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, Web of 
Science, CNKI, and the Chinese Biomedical Literature Database for relevant 
literature on the use of anti-Aβ monoclonal antibodies in treating early AD. Two 
reviewers independently screened the literature, extracted data, and conducted 
meta-analysis using RevMan 5.4.
RESULTS: A total of five clinical studies were included. Meta-analysis results 
showed that in terms of clinical outcomes, Lecanemab/Donanemab outperformed the 
control group in ADCOMS, CDR-SB, ADAS-Cog 14, and amyloid burden on PET. 
Regarding safety, the relative risk of amyloid-related imaging abnormalities 
(ARIA) in patients treated with Lecanemab/Donanemab was 4.35 times higher than 
the control group, with significantly higher risks of ARIA-E and ARIA-H. Among 
other adverse events, the risk of superficial siderosis of the central nervous 
system was notably higher and statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Lecanemab/Donanemab can improve memory, cognitive function, and 
daily living abilities in patients with early AD, significantly reduce the 
composite score of Alzheimer's disease, and inhibit the accumulation of amyloid 
peptides, thereby alleviating symptoms and improving the condition.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Pan, Zhang and Tan.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1599048
PMCID: PMC12040886
PMID: 40308765

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


83. Infect Drug Resist. 2025 Apr 25;18:2119-2136. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S491628. 
eCollection 2025.

Association Between Porphyromonas gingivalis and Alzheimer's Disease: A 
Comprehensive Review.

Sarmiento-Ordóñez JM(1)(2), Brito-Samaniego DR(3), Vásquez-Palacios AC(1), 
Pacheco-Quito EM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Unidad Académica de Salud y Bienestar, Facultad de Odontología, Universidad 
Católica de Cuenca, Cuenca, Ecuador.
(2)Grupo de Investigación Innovación y Desarrollo Farmacéutico en Odontología, 
Facultad de Odontología, Jefatura de Investigación e Innovación, Universidad 
Católica de Cuenca, Cuenca, Ecuador.
(3)Ministry of Public Health of Ecuador, Dentistry Department, Cuenca, Ecuador.

BACKGROUND: Periodontitis has long been linked to various inflammatory, chronic, 
and immunological diseases, such as heart disease or diabetes. Recently, there 
has been increasing scientific interest in the bidirectional relationship that 
may exist between periodontitis and the presence and progression of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), where it is hypothesized that the infiltration of oral 
microorganisms (mainly Porphyromonas gingivalis) into the bloodstream, which 
subsequently reaches the brain, causes inflammatory and neurodegenerative 
processes related to AD.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this review is to determine the association between 
Porphyromonas gingivalis and Alzheimer's disease in older adults.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: It was carried out using different databases such as 
PubMed, Web of Science, among others, of no more than 10 years old focused on 
older adult patients who have presented periodontitis and Alzheimer's disease. 
MESH-indexed terms were used, getting 307 articles. After removing 206 
duplicates and applying inclusion criteria (language, relevance, and 
contribution to the study's objectives), 24 articles were selected for analysis.
CONCLUSION: Evidence has been found that gingipains produced by P. gingivalis 
may contribute to the formation of amyloid plaques in the brain and nerve cell 
damage characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. It has also been observed that P. 
gingivalis can enter the brain and stimulate a local immune response. Although 
the association is promising, more research is needed to confirm it and to 
develop effective treatments. These findings may have significant implications 
for clinical practice, potentially leading to preventive or therapeutic 
strategies targeting oral health as a modifiable risk factor for AD. Further 
research could focus on exploring these pathways and developing targeted 
interventions.

© 2025 Sarmiento-Ordóñez et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S491628
PMCID: PMC12043021
PMID: 40308631

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


84. J Clin Neurol. 2025 May;21(3):182-189. doi: 10.3988/jcn.2024.0550.

Eligibility for Lecanemab Treatment in the Republic of Korea: Real-World Data 
From Memory Clinics.

Kang SH(#)(1), Jeong JH(#)(2), Pyun JM(3), Kim GH(4), Park YH(5), Shim Y(6), Koh 
SH(7), Kim CH(8), Youn YC(9), Yang DW(10), Lee HJ(10), Lee H(11), Kim D(11), Sun 
K(12), Moon SY(13), Park KH(14), Choi SH(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University Seoul Hospital, Ewha Womans 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Soonchunhyang University Seoul Hospital, 
Soonchunhyang University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University Mokdong Hospital, Ewha Womans 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seoul 
National University College of Medicine, Seongnam, Korea.
(6)Department of Neurology, St. Vincent's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Suwon, Korea.
(7)Department of Neurology, Hanyang University Guri Hospital, Guri, Korea.
(8)Department of Neurology, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, Anyang, 
Korea.
(9)Department of Neurology, Chung-Ang University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.
(10)Department of Neurology, The Catholic University of Korea Seoul, St. Mary's 
Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(11)Department of Medicine, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
(12)Department of Neurology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
(13)Department of Neurology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea. 
symoon.bv@gmail.com.
(14)Department of Neurology, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, Gachon 
University College of Medicine, Incheon, Korea. khpark@gachon.ac.kr.
(15)Department of Neurology, Inha University College of Medicine, Incheon, 
Korea. seonghye@inha.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: We aimed to determine the proportion of Korean patients 
with early Alzheimer's disease (AD) who are eligible to receive lecanemab based 
on the United States Appropriate Use Recommendations (US AUR), and also identify 
the barriers to this treatment.
METHODS: We retrospectively enrolled 6,132 patients with amnestic mild cognitive 
impairment or mild amnestic dementia at 13 hospitals from June 2023 to May 2024. 
Among them, 2,058 patients underwent amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) 
and 1,199 (58.3%) of these patients were amyloid-positive on PET. We excluded 
732 patients who did not undergo brain magnetic resonance imaging between June 
2023 and May 2024. Finally, 467 patients were included in the present study.
RESULTS: When applying the criteria of the US AUR, approximately 50% of patients 
with early AD were eligible to receive lecanemab treatment. Among the 467 
included patients, 36.8% did not meet the inclusion criterion of a Mini-Mental 
State Examination (MMSE) score of ≥22.
CONCLUSIONS: Eligibility for lecanemab treatment was not restricted to Korean 
patients with early AD except for those with an MMSE score of ≥22. The MMSE 
criteria should therefore be reconsidered in areas with a higher proportion of 
older people, who tend to have lower levels of education.

Copyright © 2025 Korean Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.3988/jcn.2024.0550
PMCID: PMC12056135
PMID: 40308013

Conflict of interest statement: Seong-Ho Koh, a contributing editor of the 
Journal of Clinical Neurology, was not involved in the editorial evaluation or 
decision to publish this article. All remaining authors have declared no 
conflicts of interest.


85. Exerc Sport Sci Rev. 2025 Jul 1;53(3):125-132. doi: 
10.1249/JES.0000000000000362. Epub 2025 May 1.

Collision Sports and Neurodegenerative Disease: Inclusion of Moderating Risk 
Factors.

Buckley TA(1), Caccese JB(2), Jeka JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology and Applied Physiology, Biomechanics and Movement 
Science Interdisciplinary Program, Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Graduate 
Program, University of Delaware, Newark, DE.
(2)The Ohio State University Chronic Brain Injury Program, Columbus, OH.

Collision sport participation with repetitive head impacts has been associated 
with increased risk of neurodegenerative diseases, but also have lower mortality 
rates for many individual conditions. The role of modifiable risk factors in 
later life development of neurodegenerative diseases in athletes is a clear 
knowledge gap and a potential opportunity for interventions to improve health 
related quality of life.

Copyright © 2025 by the American College of Sports Medicine.

DOI: 10.1249/JES.0000000000000362
PMID: 40307997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Aging Cell. 2025 Jul;24(7):e70075. doi: 10.1111/acel.70075. Epub 2025 Apr 30.

Identifying Age-Modulating Compounds Using a Novel Computational Framework for 
Evaluating Transcriptional Age.

Zhang C(1)(2)(3), Saurat N(4)(5), Cornacchia D(4)(5), Chung SY(4)(5), Sikder 
T(4)(5), Nemchik A(4)(5), Minotti A(4)(5)(6), Studer L(4)(5), Betel D(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Section of Computational Biomedicine, Boston University School of Medicine, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Institute for Computational Biomedicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, 
New York, USA.
(3)Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Weill 
Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(4)The Center for Stem Cell Biology, Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer 
Research, New York, New York, USA.
(5)Developmental Biology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research, 
New York, New York, USA.
(6)Weill Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University, New York, 
New York, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2023 Oct 04:2023.07.03.547539. doi: 10.1101/2023.07.03.547539.

The differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) provides access to a 
wide range of cell types and tissues. However, hPSC-derived lineages typically 
represent a fetal stage of development, and methods to expedite the transition 
to an aged identity to improve modeling of late-onset disease are limited. In 
this study, we introduce RNAge, a transcriptome-based computational platform 
designed to enable the evaluation of an induced aging or a rejuvenated state. We 
validated this approach across independent datasets spanning different tissues 
and species, and show that it can be used to evaluate the effectiveness of 
existing age-retaining or age-modulating interventions. We also used RNAge to 
perform an in silico compound screen using the LINCS L1000 dataset. This 
approach led to the identification and experimental confirmation of several 
novel compounds capable of inducing aging or rejuvenation in primary fibroblasts 
or hPSC-derived neurons. Additionally, we observed that applying this novel 
induced aging strategy to an hPSC model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) accelerated 
neurodegeneration in a genotype-specific manner. Our study offers a robust 
method for quantifying age-related manipulations and unveils compounds that 
significantly broaden the toolkit for age-modifying strategies in hPSC-derived 
lineages.

© 2025 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.70075
PMCID: PMC12266757
PMID: 40307992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: L.S. is a scientific co‐founder and consultant 
of Bluerock Therapeutics and DaCapo Brainscience. All other authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


87. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2025 Apr 30;13(1):85. doi:
10.1186/s40478-025-02009-9.

Neurotransmitter power plays: the synaptic communication nexus shaping brain 
cancer.

Mondal J(1)(2), Huse JT(3).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology and Translational Molecular Pathology, University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center UTHealth Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Departments of Pathology and Translational Molecular Pathology, University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. jhuse@mdanderson.org.

Gliomas and brain metastases are notorious for their dismal prognosis and low 
survival rates, a challenge exacerbated by our incomplete grasp of the complex 
dynamics that govern brain cancers. Recently, a groundbreaking paradigm shift 
has emerged, highlighting the crucial role of synaptic communication between 
neurons and brain tumor cells in reshaping neuronal signaling to favor tumor 
growth. This review delves into the pivotal interplay of synaptic mechanisms, 
focusing on excitatory glutamatergic and inhibitory GABAergic pathways. 
Glutamatergic synapses utilize glutamate to propagate excitatory signals, while 
GABAergic synapses employ gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) to inhibit neuronal 
firing. Glutamatergic signaling can be broadly classified into ionotropic 
(NMDAR, AMPAR and kainite receptors) and metabotropic subtypes. The harmonious 
orchestration of these synaptic types is essential for normal brain function, 
and their dysregulation is implicated in neurodegenerative disorders such as 
Alzheimer's disease and epilepsy. Emerging evidence reveals that glioma and 
brain metastatic cells exploit these synaptic pathways and neurotransmitters to 
enhance their proliferation and survival. In this review, we will first explore 
the intricate mechanisms underlying glutamatergic and GABAergic signaling. Next, 
we will summarize recent advancements in understanding how brain cancer cells 
hijack these pathways to their advantage. Finally, we will propose novel 
therapeutic strategies aimed at disrupting the aberrant neuron-tumor synaptic 
communication, offering potential treatment strategies for combating these 
otherwise incurable brain cancers.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-025-02009-9
PMCID: PMC12042361
PMID: 40307951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: J.T.H. serves as co-editor-in-chief of Acta Neuropathologica 
Communications.


88. Exp Mol Med. 2025 May;57(5):1032-1046. doi: 10.1038/s12276-025-01455-8. Epub 
2025 May 1.

ELK1 inhibition alleviates amyloid pathology and memory decline by promoting the 
SYVN1-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of PS1 in Alzheimer's disease.

Yi L(1), Li J(1), He Y(1), Wang J(1), Wang M(1), Guo S(1), Luo M(1), Wu B(1), Xu 
M(1), Tian Q(1), Fan Y(1), Chen M(1), Xu B(1), Xia L(1), Song W(2)(3), He G(4), 
Du Y(5), Dong Z(6).

Author information:
(1)Growth, Development, and Mental Health of Children and Adolescence Center, 
Pediatric Research Institute, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child 
Development and Disorders, National Clinical Research Center for Child Health 
and Disorders, Chongqing Key Laboratory of Child Neurodevelopment and Cognitive 
Disorders, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 
China.
(2)Townsend Family Laboratories, Department of Psychiatry, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(3)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision and Brain 
Health), Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang 
Province, Zhejiang Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders, School of 
Mental Health and The Affiliated Kangning Hospital, Wenzhou Medical University, 
Wenzhou, China.
(4)Department of Anatomy, Basic Medical College, Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing, China. guiqionghe@cqmu.edu.cn.
(5)Growth, Development, and Mental Health of Children and Adolescence Center, 
Pediatric Research Institute, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child 
Development and Disorders, National Clinical Research Center for Child Health 
and Disorders, Chongqing Key Laboratory of Child Neurodevelopment and Cognitive 
Disorders, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 
China. dudu0000807@126.com.
(6)Growth, Development, and Mental Health of Children and Adolescence Center, 
Pediatric Research Institute, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child 
Development and Disorders, National Clinical Research Center for Child Health 
and Disorders, Chongqing Key Laboratory of Child Neurodevelopment and Cognitive 
Disorders, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 
China. zfdong@cqmu.edu.cn.

ELK1 is a member of the E-twenty-six transcription factor family and is usually 
activated by phosphorylation at Ser383 and Ser389 by extracellular 
signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2). Dysregulation of ERK1/2 is involved in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related neuropathogenesis and cognitive impairments. 
However, the role of ELK1 in AD pathogenesis remains unclear. Here we report 
that the expression of ELK1 was significantly increased in the brain tissues of 
patients with AD and AD model mice. The genetic knockdown of ELK1 or inhibition 
of its phosphorylation by an interfering peptide (TAT-DEF-ELK1 (TDE)) reduced 
amyloidogenic processing of APP by targeting PS1, consequently inhibiting Aβ 
generation and alleviating synaptic and memory impairments in APP23/PS45 
double-transgenic AD model mice. In addition, we further found that ELK1 
regulated the expression of PS1 by competitively inhibiting the interaction 
between PS1 and its E3 ubiquitin ligase synoviolin (SYVN1), thereby inhibiting 
the SYVN1-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of PS1. Our results 
demonstrate that ELK1 aberrantly increases in AD and genetic or pharmacological 
inhibition of ELK1 can alleviate AD-related pathology and memory impairments by 
enhancing the SYVN1-mediated PS1 ubiquitination and degradation, indicating that 
ELK1 may be a novel target for AD treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s12276-025-01455-8
PMCID: PMC12130275
PMID: 40307574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


89. Exp Mol Med. 2025 May;57(5):1017-1031. doi: 10.1038/s12276-025-01450-z. Epub 
2025 May 1.

Microglia-driven inflammation induces progressive tauopathies and 
synucleinopathies.

Lee SH(1)(2), Bae EJ(1)(2), Park SJ(1), Lee SJ(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Neuroscience Research Institute, Medical Research Center, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. sjlee66@snu.ac.kr.
(4)Neuroscience Research Institute, Medical Research Center, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. sjlee66@snu.ac.kr.
(5)Convergence Research Center for Dementia, Medical Research Center, Seoul 
National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. sjlee66@snu.ac.kr.

Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease are characterized by distinct types 
of abnormal protein aggregates within neurons. These aggregates are known as 
neurofibrillary tangles and Lewy bodies, which consist of tau and α-synuclein, 
respectively. As the diseases progress, these aggregates spread from one cell to 
another, causing protein pathology to affect broader regions of the brain. 
Another notable characteristic of these diseases is neuroinflammation, which 
occurs when microglia become activated. Recent studies have suggested that 
inflammation may contribute to the formation and propagation of protein 
aggregates. However, it remains unclear whether microglia-driven inflammation 
can initiate and propagate different proteinopathies and associated 
neuropathology in neurodegenerative diseases. Here, using single-cell RNA 
sequencing, we observed that microglia exposed to α-synuclein or tau underwent 
changes in their characteristics and displayed distinct types of inflammatory 
response. The naive mice that received these microglial cell transplants 
developed both tauopathy and synucleinopathy, along with gliosis and 
inflammation. Importantly, these pathological features were not limited to the 
injection sites but also spread to other regions of the brain, including the 
opposite hemisphere. In conjunction with these pathological changes, the mice 
experienced progressive motor and cognitive deficits. These findings 
conclusively demonstrate that microglia-driven inflammation alone can trigger 
the full range of pathological features observed in neurodegenerative diseases, 
and that inflammation-induced local neuropathology can spread to larger brain 
regions. Consequently, these results suggest that microglia-driven inflammation 
plays an early and pivotal role in the development of neurodegenerative 
diseases. The transplantation of microglia activated by αSyn or tau proteins 
into the brains of naive mice resulted in the formation of synucleinopathy, 
tauopathy, gliosis, neuroinflammation and behavioral abnormalities. Activated 
microglia displayed alterations in subclusters as well as the corresponding 
feature genes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s12276-025-01450-z
PMCID: PMC12130470
PMID: 40307569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: S.-J.L. is a co-founder and 
CEO of Neuramedy Co., Ltd. The other authors declare no competing interests.


90. Eur Radiol. 2025 May 1. doi: 10.1007/s00330-025-11602-4. Online ahead of
print.

ESR Bridges: Alzheimer's disease-new developments in diagnosis and therapy-a 
multidisciplinary view.

Vernooij MW(1)(2)(3), Seelaar H(4)(5), van der Flier WM(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology & Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.vernooij@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. m.vernooij@erasmusmc.nl.
(3)Alzheimer Centre Erasmus MC, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. m.vernooij@erasmusmc.nl.
(4)Alzheimer Centre Erasmus MC, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Neurology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Department of Epidemiology and Data Science, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-025-11602-4
PMID: 40307531

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standards. Guarantor: 
The scientific guarantor of this publication is Meike Vernooij. Conflict of 
interest: Research programs of W.M.v.d.F. have been funded by ZonMW, NWO, 
EU-JPND, EU-IHI, Alzheimer Nederland, Hersenstichting CardioVascular Onderzoek 
Nederland, Health~Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health, stichting 
Dioraphte, Noaber foundation, Pieter Houbolt Fonds, Gieskes-Strijbis fonds, 
stichting Equilibrio, Edwin Bouw fonds, Pasman stichting, Philips, Biogen MA 
Inc, Novartis-NL, Life-MI, AVID, Roche BV, Eli-Lilly-NL, Fujifilm, Eisai, 
Combinostics. W.M.v.d.F. holds the Pasman chair. W.M.v.d.F. is the recipient of 
IHI- PROMINENT (#101112145) and IHI-AD-RIDDLE (#101132933). PROMINENT and 
AD-RIDDLE are supported by the Innovative Health Initiative Joint Undertaking 
(IHI JU). The JU receives support from the European Union’s Horizon Europe 
research and innovation program and COCIR, EFPIA, EuropaBio, MedTech Europe, and 
Vaccines Europe, with Davos Alzheimer’s Collaborative, Combinostics OY, 
Cambridge Cognition Ltd., C2N Diagnostics LLC, and neotiv GmbH. W.M.v.d.F. has 
been an invited speaker at Biogen MA Inc., Danone, Eisai, WebMD Neurology 
(Medscape), NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council. All 
funding is paid to her institution. W.M.v.d.F. is a consultant to Oxford Health 
Policy Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA Inc., and Eisai. All funding is paid to her 
institution. W.M.v.d.F. participated in advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc., 
Roche, and Eli Lilly. W.M.v.d.F. is a member of the steering committee of the 
phase 3 EVOKE/EVOKE+ studies (NovoNordisk). W.M.v.d.F. is a member of the 
steering committee of the phase 3 Trontinemab study (Roche). All funding is paid 
to her institution. W.M.v.d.F. is a member of the steering committee of PAVE, 
and Think Brain Health. W.M.v.d.F. is a member of the Scientific Leadership 
Group of InRAD. W.M.v.d.F. was associate editor of Alzheimer, Research & Therapy 
in 2020/2021. W.M.v.d.F. is an associate editor at Brain. W.M.v.d.F. is member 
of Supervisory Board (Raad van Toezicht) Trimbos Instituut. M.W.V. has been an 
invited speaker at Eisai. All funding is paid to her institution. H.S. has no 
disclosures related to the current manuscript. Statistics and biometry: No 
complex statistical methods were necessary for this paper. Informed consent: 
Written informed consent was not required. Ethical approval: Institutional 
Review Board approval was not required. Study subjects or cohorts overlap: Not 
applicable. Methodology: Commentary


91. Nat Commun. 2025 Apr 30;16(1):3753. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-58879-z.

Divergent actions of physiological and pathological amyloid-β on synapses in 
live human brain slice cultures.

McGeachan RI(#)(1)(2)(3), Meftah S(#)(1)(2), Taylor LW(1)(2), Catterson 
JH(1)(2), Negro D(1)(2), Bonthron C(1)(2), Holt K(1)(2), Tulloch J(1)(2), Rose 
JL(1)(2), Gobbo F(1)(2), Chang YY(2), Elliott J(1)(2), McLay L(1)(2), King 
D(1)(2), Liaquat I(4), Spires-Jones TL(1)(2), Booker SA(1)(5), Brennan 
PM(4)(6)(7), Durrant CS(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Discovery Brain Sciences, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
UK.
(2)UK Dementia Research Institute, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(3)The Hospital for Small Animals, Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, 
The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, 51 Little 
France Crescent, Edinburgh, UK.
(5)Simons Initiative for the Developing Brain, The University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(6)Translational Neurosurgery, The Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, The 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(7)Cancer Research UK Brain Tumour Centre of Excellence, CRUK Edinburgh Centre, 
The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(8)Centre for Discovery Brain Sciences, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
UK. claire.durrant@ed.ac.uk.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK. 
claire.durrant@ed.ac.uk.
(#)Contributed equally

In Alzheimer's disease, amyloid beta (Aβ) and tau pathology are thought to drive 
synapse loss. However, there is limited information on how endogenous levels of 
tau, Aβ and other biomarkers relate to patient characteristics, or how 
manipulating physiological levels of Aβ impacts synapses in living adult human 
brain. Using live human brain slice cultures, we report that Aβ1-40 and tau 
release levels vary with donor age and brain region, respectively. Release of 
other biomarkers such as KLK-6, NCAM-1, and Neurogranin vary between brain 
region, while TDP-43 and NCAM-1 release is impacted by sex. Pharmacological 
manipulation of Aβ in either direction results in a loss of synaptophysin 
puncta, with increased physiological Aβ triggering potentially compensatory 
synaptic transcript changes. In contrast, treatment with Aβ-containing 
Alzheimer's disease brain extract results in post-synaptic Aβ uptake and 
pre-synaptic puncta loss without affecting synaptic transcripts. These data 
reveal distinct effects of physiological and pathological Aβ on synapses in 
human brain tissue.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-58879-z
PMCID: PMC12044016
PMID: 40307257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Claire Durrant has no 
direct conflicts of interest with this study but receives funding from ONO 
Pharmaceuticals for a separate project. Tara Spires-Jones has no direct 
conflicts of interest with this study but has received payments for consulting, 
scientific talks, or collaborative research over the past 10 years from AbbVie, 
Sanofi, Merck, Scottish Brain Sciences, Jay Therapeutics, Cognition 
Therapeutics, ONO Pharmaceuticals, and Eisai. She is also a Charity trustee for 
the British Neuroscience Association and the Guarantors of Brain and serves as a 
scientific advisor to several charities and non-profit institutions. The 
remaining authors declare no competing interests.


92. BMJ Open. 2025 Apr 30;15(4):e093618. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-093618.

SinoMAKS-protocol of a randomised controlled trial to evaluate the Chinese 
version of the non-pharmacological, multimodal MAKS intervention for people with 
mild to moderate dementia in Chinese nursing homes.

Scheuermann JS(1), Scheerbaum P(2), Liu Y(3), Ding Y(4), Lu J(5), Zhong M(6), Su 
J(7), Gefeller O(8), Graessel E(2), Kratzer A(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Services Research in Medicine, Department of Psychiatry and 
Psychotherapy, Uniklinikum Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität 
Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany 
julia-sophia.scheuermann@uk-erlangen.de.
(2)Centre for Health Services Research in Medicine, Department of Psychiatry and 
Psychotherapy, Uniklinikum Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität 
Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.
(3)School of Nursing, China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning, China.
(4)School of Nursing, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(5)School of Nursing, Dalian Medical University, Dalian, Liaoning, China.
(6)Biventus GmbH, Sankt Augustin, Germany.
(7)Nanjing Academy of Social Sciences, Nanjing, Jiangsu, People's Republic of 
China.
(8)Department of Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: The prevalence of dementia is increasing, both worldwide and in 
China. This disease is associated with numerous restrictions for those affected 
but also for caregivers and society. Due to the limited effectiveness of 
pharmacological interventions, more research on non-pharmacological 
interventions is needed. For the non-pharmacological multimodal MAKS (M: motor 
training, A: activities of daily living training, K: cognitive training, S: 
social-communicative setting) intervention, positive effects on cognition, 
activities of daily living, and the occurrence of behavioural and psychological 
symptoms of dementia were identified in two randomised controlled trials in 
different settings in Germany. Thus, the German MAKS intervention was culturally 
adapted for China and will now be tested for its efficacy in Chinese nursing 
homes in a randomised controlled trial.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Participants will be residents of Chinese nursing homes in 
Shenyang, Nanjing and Dalian, fulfilling the ICD-10 criteria for Alzheimer's 
dementia, the psychometric criteria for mild to moderate dementia (MMSE 10-23) 
and none of the exclusion criteria. With n=200, effects with an effect size of 
Cohen's d=0.45 and a power of 1-β = 0.80 can be detected. Screening and data 
collection at baseline, t6 and t12 will be conducted via face-to-face contact by 
proxy raters in the nursing homes (i.e., trained nursing staff not involved in 
the intervention) and master students as external testers for the performance 
tests on cognition and activities of daily living. Participants will be randomly 
allocated to the intervention or control group. SinoMAKS (i.e., the Chinese 
version of the MAKS intervention) will be conducted at least three times a week 
for six months by trained MAKS therapists. The control group will receive care 
as usual for 12 months after baseline. Thus, the treatment phase is six months 
with follow-ups after six and 12 months after baseline. In the open phase, from 
t6 to t12, the nursing homes are free to offer SinoMAKS to the intervention 
group residents. In line with international guidelines, the primary population 
for analysis is the intention-to-treat sample. Global cognition (measured with 
the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination-III) is the primary outcome. The 
hypotheses will be analysed using multiple linear regression with the outcome 
variables as dependent variables.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: All procedures were approved by the Ethics Committee 
of the Medical Faculty of the Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg 
(Ref. 24-162-B) and the Ethics Committee of the China Medical University (Ref. 
[2024]181). Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants 
or-if applicable-their legal representatives. Results will be published in 
peer-reviewed scientific journals and conference presentations.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN10262531.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-093618
PMCID: PMC12049968
PMID: 40306986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: MZ, JS and EG are involved 
in a Chinese company (Nanjing Nande Cognitive Health Technology Ltd, Co.) that 
aims to disseminate non-pharmacological therapies—involving the MAKS concept—in 
China. All the other authors report no conflicts of interest.


93. J Nucl Med. 2025 Jun 2;66(6):940-947. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.124.268961.

In Vivo Visualization and Quantification of Brain Heat Shock Protein 90 with 
[(11)C]HSP990 in Healthy Aging and Neurodegeneration.

Cools R(1), Vermeulen K(2), Vonck E(3), Baekelandt V(3), Varlow C(4), Narykina 
V(5), Cawthorne C(6), Van Laere K(6), Vanduffel W(7), Vasdev N(4), Bormans G(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Radiopharmaceutical Research, Department of Pharmacy and 
Pharmacologic Sciences, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Nuclear Medical Applications Institute, Belgian Nuclear Research Centre, Mol, 
Belgium.
(3)Laboratory for Neurobiology and Gene Therapy, Leuven Brain Institute, KU 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Brain Health Imaging Centre, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health and 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(5)Switch Laboratory, Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, VIB-KU 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(6)Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Department of Imaging and Pathology, 
KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; and.
(7)Laboratory for Neuro- and Psychophysiology, Department of Neuroscience, KU 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(8)Laboratory for Radiopharmaceutical Research, Department of Pharmacy and 
Pharmacologic Sciences, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; guy.bormans@kuleuven.be.

Heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) is essential for maintaining cellular proteostasis 
and may play an important role in the development of neurodegenerative 
proteinopathies. Therefore, we aimed to develop an Hsp90-specific PET brain 
tracer to quantify Hsp90 expression in the brain in vivo in order to explore its 
potential as a biomarker for neurodegenerative disease characterization and to 
support Hsp90-targeted drug development. Methods: We developed the 
radiosynthesis of 
(R)-2-amino-7-(4-fluoro-2-(6-(methoxy-11C)pyridin-2-yl)phenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-dihydropyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidin-5(6H)-one, 
[11C]HSP990, and validated the tracer using in vitro autoradiography, in vitro 
brain homogenate saturation binding, ex vivo biodistribution, and in vivo PET 
imaging in rodent models of Alzheimer disease (AD) and Parkinson disease versus 
healthy age-matched and young controls. Human brain samples from AD patients and 
healthy subjects were included in our in vitro binding studies. A nonhuman 
primate PET brain study with arterial blood sampling was conducted under 
baseline and blocking conditions. Results: In vitro and in vivo [11C]HSP990 
studies in rodents and a nonhuman primate revealed saturable Hsp90 binding pools 
in natural killer lymphocytes, bone marrow, and notably the brain, where the 
highest binding was observed, particularly in gray matter. Blocking studies 
indicated that saturable Hsp90 in natural killer lymphocytes considerably 
influences the pharmacokinetics of Hsp90-targeting probes, which is critical for 
Hsp90 drug development. In vitro [3H]HSP990 brain homogenate saturation binding 
assays suggested that the tracer binds a distinct subfraction of the total Hsp90 
pool, which is significantly diminished in both rodent and human AD brain tissue 
compared with age-matched controls. In vivo PET imaging confirmed reduced 
[11C]HSP990 brain binding on aging and an even stronger decrease in AD mice, 
suggesting that Hsp90 depletion may impair protein quality control and 
accelerate proteinopathies. Conclusion: [11C]HSP990 is a promising 
Hsp90-specific tracer and reveals strong Hsp90 binding in the brain. Uniformly 
reduced tracer binding was observed in AD brain tissue compared with age-matched 
controls. [11C]HSP990 holds potential as a biomarker for neurodegenerative 
disease characterization and progression, and it may aid in patient 
stratification and therapy monitoring. Human [11C]HSP990 PET neuroimaging 
studies are under way to investigate whether these findings translate to humans.

© 2025 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.124.268961
PMCID: PMC12175989
PMID: 40306968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Brain Stimul. 2025 May-Jun;18(3):993-1003. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2025.04.019.
Epub  2025 Apr 29.

Phase-dependent closed-loop deep brain stimulation of the fornix provides 
bidirectional manipulation of hippocampal theta oscillations.

Grennan I(1), Perry B(2), Verghese A(2), Jones M(2), Härmson O(2), McNamara 
CG(3), Sharott A(4).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council Brain Network Dynamics Unit, Nuffield Department of 
Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom. Electronic 
address: isaac.grennan@bndu.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Medical Research Council Brain Network Dynamics Unit, Nuffield Department of 
Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(3)Medical Research Council Brain Network Dynamics Unit, Nuffield Department of 
Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom; Department 
of Physiology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine and Health, University 
College Cork, Cork, Ireland; APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, 
Cork, Ireland.
(4)Medical Research Council Brain Network Dynamics Unit, Nuffield Department of 
Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom. Electronic 
address: andrew.sharott@bndu.ox.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) has very limited treatment options and 
therapies to prevent or reverse neurodegeneration remain elusive. Deep brain 
stimulation (DBS), whereby high-frequency pulses of electricity are delivered 
continuously to a specific part of the brain, has been trialled as an 
experimental treatment for AD. In AD patients, continuous, high frequency DBS 
targeted to the fornix (fx-DBS) has been shown to be safe, but not reliably 
effective across patients. In movement disorders, high-frequency DBS is thought 
to act as a virtual lesion, disrupting pathophysiological activity. In AD, it 
may be more advantageous to use stimulation to reinforce or rebuild oscillatory 
activities that are disrupted by the disease process. A primary candidate for 
such a target is the hippocampal theta oscillation, which provides a temporal 
framework for mnemonic processing and is altered in rodent models of AD.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We applied closed-loop electrical stimulation to the 
fornix of rats traversing a linear track, triggered by different phases of the 
ongoing theta oscillation in the hippocampal local field potential (LFP) using 
the OscillTrack algorithm.
RESULTS: Stimulation at different target phases could robustly suppress or 
amplify the theta oscillation, and these effects were significantly larger than 
those caused by open-loop replay of the same stimulation pattern. Amplification 
of the theta oscillation could be achieved irrespective of the locomotor speed 
of the animal, showing that it did not result from a secondary effect of 
behavioural change.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that closed-loop fx-DBS is a viable method 
of modulating the amplitude of hippocampal theta oscillations that could be 
applied in human devices to provide a constructive intervention with the 
potential to boost memory circuit function in AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2025.04.019
PMCID: PMC7618027
PMID: 40306616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest C.G.M. and 
A.S. are inventors on a pending patent application related to the subject matter 
of this paper. No other competing interests to declare.


95. Sleep Med. 2025 Jul;131:106532. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2025.106532. Epub 2025
Apr  22.

Exploring nightly variability and clinical influences on sleep measures: 
insights from a digital brain health platform.

Ding H(1), Madan S(2), Searls E(2), McNulty M(3), Low S(2), Li Z(2), Ho K(2), 
Rahman S(2), Igwe A(2), Popp Z(2), Hwang PH(4), De Anda-Duran I(5), Kolachalama 
VB(6), Mez J(7), Alosco ML(7), Thomas RJ(8), Au R(9), Lin H(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; The Framingham Heart Study, 
Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; The Framingham Heart Study, 
Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; 
Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(5)School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Tulane University, New 
Orleans, LA, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Computer Science and Faculty of 
Computing & Data Sciences, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; Boston University Alzheimer's 
Disease Research Center, Boston University CTE Center, Departments of Neurology, 
Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; 
Department of Neurology, Boston Medical Center, USA.
(8)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Department of 
Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; The Framingham Heart Study, 
Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; 
Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA; Department of Medicine, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School 
of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; Boston University Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, Boston University CTE Center, Departments of Neurology, Boston 
University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; Slone 
Epidemiology Center, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(10)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, USA. Electronic address: honghuang.lin@umassmed.edu.

BACKGROUND: Digital technology offers a convenient way to continuously monitor 
sleep and assess night-to-night variability, particularly in aging populations 
where traditional self-reported sleep assessments may be limited.
AIMS: This study aimed to investigate nightly variability in sleep measures 
obtained via a ring oximeter sensor in older adults and to explore the influence 
of demographic and cognitive factors on the stability of these metrics.
METHODS: The study included 62 participants (mean age 74, 67.7 % women, 90.3 % 
White) from the Boston University Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (BU ADRC) 
cohort. Each participant wore a SleepImage Ring for at least three consecutive 
nights. Thirty-four continuous sleep measures, such as mean SpO2 and 
apnea-hypopnea index within unstable sleep, were analyzed. Night-to-night 
variability was assessed using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) based 
on a two-way random-effects model. Subgroup analyses examined variability by 
sex, age, and cognitive status. Group-level changes were assessed using one-way 
repeated measures ANOVA.
RESULTS: Seven sleep measures demonstrated high stability across nights (ICC: 
0.70-0.88), with average heart rate being the most stable, followed by mean SpO2 
and apnea-hypopnea indices. Sleep latency exhibited the highest variability. 
Stability improved between the second and third nights compared to the first and 
second nights. Women and participants under 75 years old showed greater 
stability in several metrics, while cognitively intact individuals exhibited 
more consistent breathing-related measures.
CONCLUSION: At least three nights of monitoring are required for reliable 
estimates of key sleep metrics. Expanding studies with larger samples and 
extended monitoring periods could further elucidate sleep variability as a 
potential non-invasive marker for general health.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleep.2025.106532
PMCID: PMC12086039
PMID: 40306226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Dr. Au is a 
scientific advisor to Signant Health and NovoNordisk. Dr. Kolachalama is on the 
scientific advisory board for Altoida Inc., and serves as a consultant to 
AstraZeneca. Dr. Thomas is co-inventor and patent holder of the ECG/PPG-derived 
sleep spectrogram, which may be used to phenotype sleep quality and 
central/complex sleep apnea. The technology is licensed by Beth Israel Deaconess 
Medical Center to MyCardio, LLC. He is also co-inventor and patent holder of the 
Positive Airway Pressure Gas Modulator, being developed for treatment of 
central/complex sleep apnea. He has submitted patents for respiratory 
self-similarity for detection of high loop gain sleep apnea (HLGSA), and for 
Enhanced Expiratory Rebreathing Space (treatment for HLGSA). He has consulted 
for Jazz Pharmaceuticals and consults for Guidepoint Global and GLG Councils. He 
is co-inventor of a licensed auto-CPAP software to DeVilbiss-Drive. The 
remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any 
commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest.


96. Comput Biol Med. 2025 Jun;192(Pt A):110285. doi: 
10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110285. Epub 2025 Apr 29.

Alzheimer's disease knowledge graph enhances knowledge discovery and disease 
prediction.

Yang Y(1), Yu K(2), Gao S(3), Yu S(4), Xiong D(5), Qin C(3), Chen H(3), Tang 
J(1), Tang N(3), Zhu H(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
USA.
(2)Insilicom LLC, Tallahassee FL, USA.
(3)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Yunnan University, China.
(4)Center for Statistics Science, Tsinghua University, China.
(5)Department of Mathematics, Shanghai University, China.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
USA. Electronic address: htzhu@email.unc.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Jul 05:2024.07.03.601339. doi: 10.1101/2024.07.03.601339.

OBJECTIVE: To construct an Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge Graph (ADKG) by 
extracting and integrating relationships among Alzheimer's disease (AD), genes, 
variants, chemicals, drugs, and other diseases from biomedical literature, 
aiming to identify existing treatments, potential targets, and diagnostic 
methods for AD.
METHODS: We annotated 800 PubMed abstracts (ADERC corpus) with 20,886 entities 
and 4935 relationships, augmented via GPT-4. A SpERT model (SciBERT-based) 
trained on this data extracted relations from PubMed abstracts, supported by 
biomedical databases and entity linking refined via abbreviation 
resolution/string matching. The resulting knowledge graph trained embedding 
models to predict novel relationships. ADKG's utility was validated by 
integrating it with UK Biobank data for predictive modeling.
RESULTS: The ADKG contained 3,199,276 entity mentions and 633,733 triplets, 
linking >5K unique entities and capturing complex AD-related interactions. Its 
graph embedding models produced evidence-supported predictions, enabling 
testable hypotheses. In UK Biobank predictive modeling, ADKG-enhanced models 
achieved higher AUROC of 0.928 comparing to 0.903 without ADKG enhancement.
CONCLUSION: By synthesizing literature-derived insights into a computable 
framework, ADKG bridges molecular mechanisms to clinical phenotypes, advancing 
precision medicine in Alzheimer's research. Its structured data and predictive 
utility underscore its potential to accelerate therapeutic discovery and risk 
stratification.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110285
PMCID: PMC12103266
PMID: 40306017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Hongtu Zhu reports financial 
support was provided by National Institute On Aging (NIA) of the National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) under Award Numbers RF1AG082938 and 1R01AG085581. 
Hongtu Zhu reports financial support was provided by Gillings Generative AI 
Award. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


97. Sci Adv. 2025 May 2;11(18):eadr0656. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adr0656. Epub 2025
Apr  30.

Biomimetic elasticity compressed assembly controls rapid intracerebral drug 
release to reverse microglial dysfunction.

Han G(1), Jin Y(1), Bai K(1), Du Q(1), Gu X(2), Tao L(3), Zhou J(1), Zhang H(1), 
Ding Y(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, Department of Pharmaceutics, China 
Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210009, China.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3E 0T5, Canada.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Functions and Applications of Medicinal Plants, 
Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550014, China.

The regulation of microglial dysfunction has become increasingly prominent in 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Herein, we develop a scalable 
polymer-involved biomimetic assembly that responds to intracerebral reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) for elastic spreading and concentration-dependent drug 
therapy. Structurally, a polymer of thermally sensitive deformation is selected 
for hydrophobic loading of curcumin (Cur) and coordinative grafting onto 
ultrasmall ceria (CeO2) by elastic compression at transition temperature, which 
is further sealed by self-polymerized dopamine with apolipoprotein decoration to 
improve intracerebral shuttling. When triggered by ROS in the lesions, burst 
exposure of Cur and polymer-linked CeO2 (PCeO2) is achieved. The concentrated 
Cur switches amyloid-β (Aβ)-activated microglia into normal for mobilizing 
phagocytosis, and CeO2 has sustainable antioxidant capacity to prevent 
microglial mitochondrial damage after phagocytosis of PCeO2-captured Aβ. After 
administration, our findings reveal microglia-mediated Aβ clearance, 
neuroprotection, and ROS elimination in AD mice. Collectively, this biomimetic 
assembly provides a promising approach in AD treatments.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adr0656
PMCID: PMC12042905
PMID: 40305624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Sci Adv. 2025 May 2;11(18):eadt8976. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adt8976. Epub 2025
Apr  30.

Impaired parvalbumin interneurons in the retrosplenial cortex as the cause of 
sex-dependent vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease.

Terstege DJ(1)(2), Ren Y(1)(2), Ahn BY(3), Seo H(3), Adigun K(1)(2); Alzheimer’s 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative; Galea LAM(4)(5)(6)(7), Sargin D(2)(8)(9), Epp 
JR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, Cumming School of Medicine, 
University of Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 4N1, Canada.
(2)Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 4N1, 
Canada.
(3)Applied Spatial Omics Centre, Cumming School of Medicine, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 4N1, Canada.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 
1Z4, Canada.
(5)Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3, Canada.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5T 1R8, Canada.
(7)Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, Toronto, ON M5T 1R8, Canada.
(8)Department of Psychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada.
(9)Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1, Canada.

Alzheimer's disease is a debilitating neurodegenerative disorder with no cure 
and few treatment options. In early stages of Alzheimer's disease, impaired 
metabolism and functional connectivity of the retrosplenial cortex strongly 
predict future cognitive impairments. Therefore, understanding Alzheimer's 
disease-related deficits in the retrosplenial cortex is critical for 
understanding the origins of cognitive impairment and identifying early 
treatment targets. Using the 5xFAD mouse model, we discovered early, 
sex-dependent alterations in parvalbumin-interneuron transcriptomic profiles. 
This corresponded with impaired parvalbumin-interneuron activity, which was 
sufficient to induce cognitive impairments and dysregulate retrosplenial 
functional connectivity. In fMRI scans from patients with mild cognitive 
impairment and Alzheimer's disease, we observed a similar sex-dependent 
dysregulation of retrosplenial cortex functional connectivity and, in postmortem 
tissue from subjects with Alzheimer's disease, a loss of parvalbumin 
interneurons. Reversal of cognitive deficits by stimulation of parvalbumin 
interneurons in the retrosplenial cortex suggests that this may serve as a 
promising therapeutic strategy.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adt8976
PMCID: PMC12042879
PMID: 40305608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Sci Transl Med. 2025 Apr 30;17(796):eads6111. doi:
10.1126/scitranslmed.ads6111.  Epub 2025 Apr 30.

Brain-wide microglia replacement using a nonconditioning strategy ameliorates 
pathology in mouse models of neurological disorders.

Chen D(1), Wang C(2), Chen X(3), Li J(1), Chen S(4), Li Y(1), Ma F(1), Li T(1), 
Zou M(1), Li X(1), Huang X(5), Zhang YW(1), Zhao Y(1), Bu G(6), Zheng H(1), Chen 
XF(1)(7), Zhang J(1), Zhong L(1)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Xiamen Key Laboratory of Brain Center, First Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen 
University and Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Disease and 
Aging Research, Institute of Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Xiamen 
University, Xiamen, Fujian 361102, China.
(2)Department of Neurology and Department of Neuroscience, Xiamen Medical 
Quality Control Center for Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen 
University, School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, Fujian 361005, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, First Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen University, 
School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, Fujian 361005, China.
(4)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital 
of Xiamen University, School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, Fujian 
361005, China.
(5)Basic Medical Sciences, School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, Fujian 
361102, China.
(6)Division of Life Science and State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China.
(7)Shenzhen Research Institute of Xiamen University, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518063, 
China.
(8)State Key Laboratory of Vaccines for Infectious Diseases, Xiang An 
Biomedicine Laboratory, Xiamen University, Xiamen, Fujian 361102, China.

Growing genetic and pathological evidence has identified microglial dysfunction 
as a key contributor to the pathogenesis and progression of various neurological 
disorders, positioning microglia replacement as a promising therapeutic 
strategy. Traditional bone marrow transplantation (BMT) methods for replenishing 
brain microglia have limitations, including low efficiency and the potential for 
brain injury because of preconditioning regimens, such as irradiation or 
chemotherapy. Moreover, BM-derived cells that migrate to the brain do not 
recapitulate the phenotypic and functional properties of resident microglia. 
Here, we present a microglia transplantation strategy devoid of any 
conditioning, termed "tricyclic microglial depletion for transplantation" 
(TCMDT). This approach leverages three cycles of microglial depletion using the 
colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) inhibitor PLX3397, creating an 
optimal window for efficient engraftment of exogenous microglia. Transplantation 
of primary cultured microglia by TCMDT successfully restored the identity and 
functions of endogenous microglia. To evaluate the therapeutic potential of 
TCMDT, we applied this strategy to two distinct mouse models of neurologic 
disorder. In a Sandhoff disease model, a neurodegenerative lysosomal storage 
disorder caused by hexosaminidase subunit beta (Hexb) deficiency, TCMDT 
effectively replaced deficient microglia, attenuating neurodegeneration and 
improving motor performance. Similarly, in an Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related 
amyloid mouse model carrying the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 
2 (Trem2) R47H mutation, our transplantation strategy rescued microglial 
dysfunction and mitigated AD-related pathology. Overall, our study introduces 
TCMDT as a practical, efficient, and safe approach for microglia replacement, 
suggesting therapeutic potential for treating neurological disorders associated 
with microglial dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.ads6111
PMID: 40305572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. PLoS One. 2025 Apr 30;20(4):e0322892. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0322892. 
eCollection 2025.

Association between varicose veins and occurrence of dementia: A nationwide 
population-based cohort study.

Woo HG(1), Park JY(2), Park MS(3), Song TJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Kyung Hee University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Statistics, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan, Gyeongbuk, Republic 
of Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Seoul Hospital, Ewha Womans University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

While varicose vein (VV) and dementia are frequent health problems, research 
investigating association between these conditions has been limited. We aimed to 
investigate the relationship between the presence of VV and the development of 
dementia, as well as to evaluate whether treatment for VV correlates with the 
occurrence of dementia in a longitudinal study involving the general population. 
Our study included 430,875 participants based on health screening results 
conducted from 2005 to 2010 in the South Korean health screening cohort 
database. Presence of VV was defined with at least two or more claims based on 
International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision (ICD-10) of I830-832, 
I839, or I868. Propensity score matching at a ratio of 1:5 was employed to 
categorize the participants into two groups based on the presence and treatment 
of VV, respectively. Primary outcome was the incidence of all-cause dementia 
with two or more claims based on ICD-10 code (F00-03, G30, and G31), and 
secondary outcomes considered occurrence of Alzheimer's disease (AD; F00 or G30) 
and vascular dementia (VD; F01). Among included participants, presence of VV 
were noted in 5,096 (1.3%) participants. During a median follow-up of 13.33 
(interquartile range 10.4-16.26) years, 55,329 (13.9%) cases of all-cause 
dementia have occurred. In multivariable analysis, VV group showed increased 
risk of all-cause dementia compared to non-VV group (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.235, 
95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.147-1.329). Contrary to AD, treatment of VV 
group was significantly associated with decreased risk of VD (HR: 0.566, 95% CI: 
0.382-0.841). Our study showed that presence of VV may be associated with an 
increased risk of future all-cause dementia, and treatment of VV was likely to 
reduce the incidence risk of VD.

Copyright: © 2025 Woo et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0322892
PMCID: PMC12043132
PMID: 40305494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.