1. Res Pharm Sci. 2024 Dec 15;19(6):698-711. doi: 10.4103/RPS.RPS_257_23. 
eCollection 2024 Dec.

Synthesis, docking, pharmacokinetic prediction, and acetylcholinesterase 
inhibitory evaluation of N-(2-(piperidine-1-yl)ethyl)benzamide derivatives as 
potential anti-Alzheimer agents.

Mohammadi-Farani A(1)(2), Moradi F(3)(4), Hosseini A(3)(5), Aliabadi A(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Medical Plant Research Center, Basic Health Sciences Institute, Shahrekord, 
University of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.
(2)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Shahrekord 
University of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.
(3)Students Research Committee, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kermanshah University of 
Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(4)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kermanshah University 
of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(5)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Health Institute, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(6)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia 
and the sixth most common cause of death in the US according to the Alzheimer's 
Association. As regards, to date, no effective treatments are available because 
of the multifactorial nature of the disease, therefore, a large body of recent 
research has been allocated to the design and development of 
multi-target-directed ligands that can become effective drug candidates.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: A novel series of benzamide derivatives (5a-5l) 
containing piperidine core were synthesized in the current work. After 
identification of the chemical structures of the members of this series using 1H 
NMR, IR, and MS spectra, their anti-acetylcholinesterase activity was assessed 
by the Ellman᾽s test. Docking studies were also performed to investigate the 
binding mode and determine the interacting amino acids with the corresponding 
ligands. Finally, the pharmacokinetic (ADME parameters) of the most potent 
derivative (5d) was predicted and compared with donepezil.
FINDINGS/RESULTS: Compound 5d possessing the fluorine atom substitution at 
position ortho was the most active compound in these series (IC50 = 13 ± 2.1 
nM). This compound demonstrated superior activity than the reference drug 
donepezil (IC50 = 0.6 ± 0.05 µM). Molecular docking showed a significant 
hydrogen bonding of the carbonyl group of compounds 5d with tyrosine 121 into 
the active site of acetylcholinesterase. Fortunately, this compound showed 
better promising ADME properties than donepezil.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATION: The benzamide derivatives introduced in this paper 
could be proposed as potential anti-acetylcholinesterase.

Copyright: © 2024 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.

DOI: 10.4103/RPS.RPS_257_23
PMCID: PMC11792719
PMID: 39911894

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no conflict of interest in 
this study.


2. Res Pharm Sci. 2024 Dec 15;19(6):634-655. doi: 10.4103/RPS.RPS_163_23. 
eCollection 2024 Dec.

MicroRNA-219 in the central nervous system: a potential theranostic approach.

Shamaeizadeh N(1), Mirian M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Novel Drug Delivery Systems Research Centre, 
School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. 
Iran.

Despite the recent therapeutic advances in neurological disorders, curative 
therapy remains a serious challenge in many cases. Even though recent years have 
witnessed the development of gene therapy from among the different therapeutic 
approaches affecting pathophysiological mechanisms, intriguing aspects exist 
regarding the effectiveness, safety, and mechanism of action of gene therapies. 
Micro ribonucleic acid (microRNA-miRNA), as a fundamental gene regulator, 
regulates messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) by directly binding through the 
3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR). MicroRNA-219 is a specific brain-enriched miRNA 
associated with neurodevelopmental disorders that play crucial roles in the 
differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitorcells, promotion of oligodendrocyte 
maturation, remyelination, and cognitive functions to the extent that it can be 
considered a potential therapeutic option for demyelination in multiple 
sclerosis and spinal cord injury and reverse chronic inflammation pains. 
Additionally, miR-219 regulates the circadian clock, influencing the duration of 
the circadian clock period. This regulation can impact mood stability and is 
associated with phase fluctuations in bipolar patients. Furthermore, miR-219 
also plays a role in modulating tau toxicity, which is relevant to the 
pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. Finally, it reportedly 
has protective effects against seizures and Parkinson's disease, as well as 
neoplasms, by inhibiting proliferation, suppressing invasion, and inducing cell 
death in tumor cells. Exploring the miR-219 molecular pathways and their 
therapeutic effects on central nervous system disorders and the mechanisms 
involved, the present review study aims to illustrate how this information may 
change the future of gene therapy.

Copyright: © 2024 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.

DOI: 10.4103/RPS.RPS_163_23
PMCID: PMC11792714
PMID: 39911893

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no conflict of interest in 
this study.


3. J Multidiscip Healthc. 2025 Jan 31;18:505-529. doi: 10.2147/JMDH.S498190. 
eCollection 2025.

Research Progress and Trends in Exercise Interventions for Mild Cognitive 
Impairment: A Bibliometric Visualization Analysis Using CiteSpace.

Han Q(1), Kim SM(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education, Hanyang University, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Department of Sport Science, Hanyang University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)BK21 FOUR Human-Tech Convergence Program, Hanyang University, Seoul, Republic 
of Korea.
(4)Center for Artificial Intelligence Muscle, Hanyang University, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: With the increasing global aging population, exercise interventions for 
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have gained significant research attention. This 
study uses CiteSpace6.3R2 to systematically analyze the research progress and 
emerging trends in this field.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search in the Web of Science Core Collection 
focused on exercise interventions for MCI. After screening, 420 relevant 
publications were imported into CiteSpace6.3R2 for bibliometric analysis, 
generating visual maps of keywords, authors, institutions, and other key 
indicators.
RESULTS: Publications on exercise interventions for MCI have shown steady 
growth, with Journal of Alzheimer's Disease leading in volume, and Geriatrics & 
Gerontology as the dominant subject area. The USA ranks highest in collaborative 
output, with the Chinese University of Hong Kong as the top institution. Among 
authors, Shimada Hiroyuki and three Japanese colleagues are key contributors, 
while Neurology is the most frequently co-cited journal. The most frequently 
co-cited author, Petersen, R.C. has his 2018 work as the top reference. High 
co-occurrence keywords include "mild cognitive impairment", "dementia", and 
"Alzheimer's disease". The primary keyword clusters are #0 Cognitive training, 
#1 Cognitive impairment, and #2 Mild Cognitive impairment, while newly burst 
keywords "systematic review", "recommendations", and "depression".
CONCLUSION: Research on exercise interventions for MCI has been steadily gaining 
attention, becoming an interdisciplinary research area in fields such as 
geriatrics and neuroscience, with relevant findings concentrated in specific 
journals. In the collaboration network, developed countries dominate, showing 
systematic patterns of inter-institutional collaboration, while author 
collaborations are primarily focused within institutions. Current research is 
centered on the design and mechanisms of exercise intervention programs. Future 
studies will prioritize integrated intervention strategies, systematic evidence 
synthesis, and personalized interventions for specific populations.

© 2025 Han and Kim.

DOI: 10.2147/JMDH.S498190
PMCID: PMC11794398
PMID: 39911756

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


4. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Feb 5;11(1):e70040. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70040. 
eCollection 2025 Jan-Mar.

Anticholinergic drugs and dementia risk: Using stem cell-based studies to 
complement pharmacoepidemiology.

Schwarze-Taufiq TA(1)(2), Pranoto IKA(1)(2), Hui K(1)(2), Kinoshita C(1)(2), Yu 
O(3), Crane PK(4), Gray SL(5), Young JE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology University of Washington 
Seattle Washington USA.
(2)Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine University of Washington 
Seattle Washington USA.
(3)Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute Seattle Washington 
USA.
(4)Department of Medicine University of Washington Seattle Washington USA.
(5)School of Pharmacy University of Washington Seattle Washington USA.

BACKGROUND: Anticholinergic (AC) use remains common in older adults despite 
evidence of safety risks, including increased risk in dementia. 
Pharmacoepidemiology studies from various populations report associations 
between specific anticholinergic classes - antidepressants and bladder 
antimuscarinics - and increased dementia incidence. However, it is difficult to 
determine whether these associations are directly caused by the neurotoxic 
effects of anticholinergic drugs or by the underlying health conditions which 
the medications are taken for, known as confounding by indication. Here, we 
leverage human induced pluripotent stem cells-derived-neurons (hiPSC-Ns) to 
complement the pharmacoepidemiology studies by directly examining the effects of 
various anticholinergic classes on dementia-related cellular phenotypes.
METHODS: We treated human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived neurons 
with eight drugs representing different AC medication classes, including 
antidepressants, bladder antimuscarinics, antihistamines, and antispasmodics. We 
analyzed these neurons for cytotoxicity, amyloid beta (Aβ) peptide levels in the 
conditioned medium, and the level of intracellular phosphorylated tau from these 
cultures.
RESULTS: We observed that antidepressants and bladder antimuscarinics were 
consistently cytotoxic, whereas antihistamines and antispasmodics did not show 
overt cytotoxicity at the times and concentrations that we tested. Some of the 
cytotoxic medications altered the amounts of Aβ1-42 peptides, but there were no 
significant differences in the intracellular ratio of phosphorylated tau/total 
tau between AC drug treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: These results corroborate population-based studies and suggest a 
molecular basis for the differences in dementia risk observed according to AC 
class. This warrants future work examining the effect of AC medications on 
hiPSC-derived cells from multiple subjects and examining other molecular 
outcomes including synaptic function and neuroinflammation in hiPSC-based 
models.
HIGHLIGHTS: Certain classes of anticholinergic (AC) medications are linked to 
dementia.Human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) models are used to directly 
test the cytotoxicity of AC medications.AC classes that are associated with 
dementia are more neurotoxic.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70040
PMCID: PMC11795422
PMID: 39911736

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information.


5. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Jan 22;11:1488536. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2024.1488536. 
eCollection 2024.

A bibliometric analysis of exosomes in aging from 2007 to 2023.

Niu Z(#)(1), Cui M(#)(1), Fu Y(2), Zhou L(1), Wang J(1)(3), Lei Y(1), Fan X(1), 
Wang Q(4), Yang J(1).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Guanganmen Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Tianjin Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine Affiliated Hospital, Tianjin, 
China.
(4)Wangjing Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Aging is the primary factor contributing to the development of 
aging-related diseases. As research on exosomes continues to advance, its 
relationship with aging and aging-related diseases has become a hot topic This 
article analyzes the research hotspots of exosomes in aging and aging-related 
diseases, aiming to fill the gap in bibliometric research in this field and help 
researchers better understand the current status and future trends of both 
fundamental and clinical research in this field.
METHODS: The articles were retrieved and exported from WoSCC on December 18, 
2023. The visual analysis of countries and regions, institutions, authors, 
references, and keywords in exosomes of aging was conducted using VOSviewer 
1.6.18, CiteSpace 6.2.R7, and Bibliometrix.
RESULTS: The bibliometric analysis included 1628 articles. China and the United 
States emerged as the top two leading countries in this field. A total of 2,321 
research institutions from 78 countries and regions were primarily led by China 
and the United States. Both Kapogiannis D and Goetzl E were active authors in 
this field. Thery C, Valadi H, and Raposo G were the important promoters in this 
field. Thery C proposed the method of differential centrifugation and density 
gradient centrifugation to extract exosomes. Valadi H discovered cells could 
send RNA-messages to each other by loading them into exosome-vesicles. The 
journal with the highest number of articles was International Journal of 
Molecular Sciences, while PLoS One was the most frequently cited journal. The 
keyword analysis revealed that future research on exosomes in aging will 
possibly focus on "inflammation, cellular senescence, angiogenesis, insulin 
resistance, and Alzheimer's disease."
CONCLUSION: We identified the research trends of exosomes in the field of aging 
through this bibliometric analysis. The present study provides valuable new 
perspectives on the history and current status of exosomes in the field of aging 
and aging-related diseases, and also offering guidance for future research 
directions.

Copyright © 2025 Niu, Cui, Fu, Zhou, Wang, Lei, Fan, Wang and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2024.1488536
PMCID: PMC11794001
PMID: 39911664

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


6. RSC Adv. 2025 Feb 5;15(5):3646-3663. doi: 10.1039/d4ra08362h. eCollection 2025
 Jan 29.

Quinoline analogs: multifaceted heterocyclic compounds with varied synthetic 
strategies and potent antitubercular properties.

Pakhariya RP(1), Bhatnagar A(1), Pemawat G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University College of Science, Mohanlal Sukhadia 
University Udaipur Rajasthan India drgpemawat@mlsu.ac.in.

Tuberculosis cases have continuously increased by 64% over the last nine years, 
from 2014 to 2023. Approximately 33% of the global population is affected by TB. 
It is a bacterial disease, and Mycobacterium tuberculosis is the most common 
bacteria that affects the lungs of human beings during the infection. Other 
hazardous bacterial species causing tuberculosis are M. pinnipedii, M. canettii, 
M. caprae, M. bovis, M. africanum, and M. microti. TB symptoms in TB-infected 
patients include fever, chest pain, weight loss, and fatigue. Depending on the 
stage of infection, the treatment for TB can take approximately six months to 
two years. Quinoline comprises a pyridine ring fused with a benzene ring, and 
both these rings share two adjacent carbon atoms and can take part in 
electrophilic substitution reactions. Quinoline-based heterocyclic compounds are 
attracting substantial interest owing to their vital role as a class of 
synthetic and natural molecules. Quinoline and its derivatives display various 
biological activities, including anti-TB, anticonvulsant, antibiotic, 
antifungal, antimalarial, antipsychotic, antihypertensive, antileishmanial, 
antioxidant, tyrosine kinase inhibitory, anti-inflammatory, anticancer, 
anti-asthmatic, cardiotonic, anthelmintic, antiprotozoal, anti-HIV, and 
anti-Alzheimer effects. Some fused analogs of quinoline, such as graveolinine, 
ciprofloxacin, kokusaginine, bedaquiline, levofloxacin, moxifloxacin, and 
mefloquine, are commercially available as antitubercular drugs. There are 
various methods available to synthesize quinoline-containing antitubercular 
drugs. In this review paper, we present three types of synthetic methods in 
which substituted quinolines, substituted anilines, and miscellaneous starting 
materials are used and outline MIC values for all the synthesized compounds to 
signify their anti-TB activity.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d4ra08362h
PMCID: PMC11795169
PMID: 39911544

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts to declare.


7. Chem Sci. 2025 Feb 4;16(10):4366-4373. doi: 10.1039/d4sc08771b. eCollection
2025  Mar 5.

Zn(ii)-driven impact of monomeric transthyretin on amyloid-β amyloidogenesis.

Yi Y(1), Kim B(2), Kim M(1), Ko YH(3), Kim JH(2), Lim MH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology 
(KAIST) Daejeon 34141 Republic of Korea miheelim@kaist.ac.kr.
(2)Department of New Biology, Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of Science and 
Technology (DGIST) Daegu 42988 Republic of Korea jinhaekim@dgist.ac.kr.
(3)Center for van der Waals Quantum Solids, Institute for Basic Science Pohang 
37673 Republic of Korea.

Extracellular accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides in the brain plays a 
significant role in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). While the 
co-localization and interaction of proteins and metal ions with Aβ in 
extracellular milieu are established, their precise pathological associations 
remain unclear. Here we report the impact of Zn(ii) on the anti-amyloidogenic 
properties of monomeric transthyretin (M-TTR), which coexists spatially with Aβ 
and Zn(ii) in extracellular fluids. Our findings demonstrate the Zn(ii)-promoted 
ternary complex formation involving M-TTR, Aβ, and Zn(ii) as well as M-TTR's 
proteolytic activity towards Aβ. These interactions decrease the inhibitory 
effect of M-TTR on the primary nucleation process of Aβ as well as its ability 
to improve cell viability upon treatment of Aβ. This study unveils the variable 
activities of M-TTR towards Aβ, driven by Zn(ii), providing insights into how 
metal ions influence the entanglement of M-TTR in the Aβ-related pathology 
linked to AD.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d4sc08771b
PMCID: PMC11793109
PMID: 39911331

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts to declare.


8. EClinicalMedicine. 2025 Jan 21;80:103052. doi: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2024.103052. 
eCollection 2025 Feb.

Serum NFL and neuropsychological performance over ∼8 years in women with and 
without HIV: a longitudinal repeated measures study.

Gustafson DR(1)(2), Li X(3), Baird AE(1), Zetterberg H(4)(2)(5)(6)(7)(8), 
Blennow K(4)(2), Zhang J(9), Spence AB(10), Maki P(11), Sharma A(12), Weber 
K(13), Yucel R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, State University of New York Downstate Health 
Sciences University, Brooklyn, NY, USA.
(2)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Temple University, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(7)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(8)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(9)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(10)Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.
(11)University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(12)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.
(13)Hektoen Institute/Cook County Health, Chicago, IL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Blood-based biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and stroke, 
including serum neurofilament light chain (sNFL), are understudied in women 
living with and without HIV.
METHODS: We assessed cross-sectional and longitudinal change in sNFL between 
2008 and 2019 associated with neuropsychological performance (NP) among women 
living with HIV (WLWH) and without HIV (WLWOH) age ≥40 years in the Women's 
Interagency HIV Study. Baseline and repeated ∼8-year fasting sNFL levels were 
measured using Simoa. Sociodemographically-adjusted NP T-scores (attention, 
working memory, executive function, processing speed, learning, verbal fluency 
and global) were calculated. Multivariable linear regression analyses stratified 
by HIV serostatus examined cross-sectional baseline and follow-up associations, 
and ∼8-year change in sNFL level related to global and domain-specific NP 
T-scores.
FINDINGS: 417 participants (290 WLWH, 127 WLWOH), African American/Black (55%), 
≥high school education (69%), current/former smokers (79%), and overweight/obese 
(BMI ≥25.0 kg/m2, 74%) were included. Compared to WLWOH at baseline, WLWH 
performed worse on memory and global NP. WLWH versus WLWOH had higher baseline 
(p ≤ 0.001) and follow-up median (p < 0.0001) sNFL levels and ∼8-year change 
(46.5% in WLWH versus 24.4% in WLWOH, p < 0.0001). Among WLWH, higher baseline 
sNFL was associated with poorer processing speed, learning, memory and verbal 
fluency. Among WLWOH, higher baseline sNFL was associated with poorer executive 
function, processing speed and verbal fluency. Among WLWH, higher follow-up sNFL 
was associated with poorer executive function. Among WLWOH, higher follow-up 
sNFL was associated with poorer executive function, processing speed, attention, 
memory, and global NP. ∼8-year increase in sNFL occurred in both WLWH and WLWOH 
and was associated with poorer executive function, processing speed, memory, and 
global performance at follow-up among WLWOH, and poorer executive function in 
WLWH. Adjustment for multiple comparisons showed associations at cross-sectional 
follow-up and ∼8-year increase in sNFL in WLWOH, only. Higher sNFL was 
associated with poorer baseline processing speed in WLWH only.
INTERPRETATION: Higher levels and greater ∼8-year increases in sNFL were 
associated with poorer NP by domain in WLWH and WLWOH differentially over time.
FUNDING: The contents of this publication are solely the responsibility of the 
authors and do not represent the official views of the National Institutes of 
Health (NIH). MACS/WIHS Combined Cohort Study (MWCCS) (Principal Investigators: 
Bronx CRS (Kathryn Anastos, David Hanna, and Anjali Sharma), U01-HL146204; 
Brooklyn CRS (Deborah Gustafson and Tracey Wilson), U01-HL146202; Data Analysis 
and Coordination Center (Gypsyamber D'Souza, Stephen Gange and Elizabeth 
Topper), U01-HL146193; Chicago-Cook County CRS (Mardge Cohen and Audrey French), 
U01-HL146245; Northern California CRS (Bradley Aouizerat, Jennifer Price, and 
Phyllis Tien), U01-HL146242; Metropolitan Washington CRS (Seble Kassaye and 
Daniel Merenstein), U01-HL146205. The MWCCS is funded primarily by the National 
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), with additional co-funding from the 
Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development 
(NICHD), National Institute on Aging (NIA), National Institute of Dental and 
Craniofacial Research (NIDCR), National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Diseases (NIAID), National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke 
(NINDS), National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), National Institute on Drug 
Abuse (NIDA), National Institute of Nursing Research (NINR), National Cancer 
Institute (NCI), National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), 
National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD), 
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), 
National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD), and in 
coordination and alignment with the research priorities of the National 
Institutes of Health, Office of AIDS Research (OAR). MWCCS data collection is 
also supported by UL1-TR000004 (UCSF CTSA), UL1-TR003098 (JHU ICTR), 
UL1-TR001881 (UCLA CTSI).

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2024.103052
PMCID: PMC11794164
PMID: 39911246

Conflict of interest statement: HZ is a Wallenberg Scholar and a Distinguished 
Professor at the Swedish Research Council supported by grants from the Swedish 
Research Council (#2023-00356; #2022-01018 and #2019-02397), the European 
Union's Horizon Europe research and innovation programme under grant agreement 
No 101053962, and Swedish State Support for Clinical Research (#ALFGBG-71320). 
KB is supported by the Swedish Research Council (#2017-00915 and #2022-00732), 
the Swedish Alzheimer Foundation (#AF-930351, #AF-939721, #AF-968270, and 
#AF-994551), Hjärnfonden, Sweden (#FO2017-0243 and #ALZ2022-0006), the Swedish 
state under the agreement between the Swedish government and the County 
Councils, the ALF-agreement (#ALFGBG-715986 and #ALFGBG-965240). HZ has also 
served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, 
Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZ 
Therapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey 
Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and 
Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the Gothenburg 
University's Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). PM has 
received speaking honoraria from Mayo Clinic, Healthy Women, InfectionIQ; from 
Bayer, International Menopause Society for travel to a meeting; Astellas, Bayer 
for advisory board services and consultation; and has equity with Estrigenix, 
Respin, and MidiHealth. KM is a board member for the Hektoen Institute of 
Medicine Board Member.


9. Acta Biochim Biophys Sin (Shanghai). 2025 Jan 22;57(7):1057-1067. doi: 
10.3724/abbs.2024236.

mTOR-related linc-PMB promotes mitochondrial biogenesis via stabilizing SIRT1 
mRNA through binding to the HuR protein.

Chen Q(1), Zhang H(2), Wang D(1), Liao W(1), Liu Y(1), Cai Y(1), Wang S(1), Yu 
M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Chengdu Second People's Hospital, Chengdu 
610017, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Hangzhou Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Hospital Affiliated to Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310000, 
China.
(3)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Precision Diagnosis and Therapy for 
Major Gynecological Diseases, Women's Hospital and Institute of Translational 
Medicine, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310000, China.

Mitochondrial dysfunction is implicated in numerous disorders, including type 2 
diabetes, Alzheimer's disease and cancer. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are 
emerging as pivotal regulators of cellular energy metabolism, yet their roles 
remain largely unclear. In this study, we identify an lncRNA named linc-PMB, 
which is associated with mTOR and promotes mitochondrial biogenesis, through 
microarray analysis. We demonstrate that the knockdown of linc-PMB results in 
significantly impaired mitochondrial respiration and biogenesis, along with 
altered expressions of related genes. Conversely, overexpression of linc-PMB 
markedly increases mitochondrial function. We further reveal that linc-PMB 
interacts with the RNA-binding protein HuR, promoting the stabilization of SIRT1 
mRNA and a substantial increase in SIRT1 expression, which in turn activates the 
PGC-1α/mtTFA pathway and mitochondrial biogenesis. Collectively, our findings 
reveal a novel regulatory pathway in which linc-PMB, through its interaction 
with HuR, modulates the SIRT1/PGC-1α/mtTFA axis to maintain mitochondrial 
biogenesis and function.

DOI: 10.3724/abbs.2024236
PMCID: PMC12367985
PMID: 39910977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


10. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2025 Feb 2;71(1):111-117. doi: 
10.14715/cmb/2025.70.1.12.

Alzheimer's disease: assessing the therapeutic potential of anti-Aβ 
(Beta-Amyloid) treatments.

Almutairi JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Science, College of Pharmacy, Princess 
NourahBint Abdulrahman University, P.O. Box 84428, Riyadh 11671, Saudi Arabia. 
Jaalmutairi@pnu.edu.sa.

One of the most common forms of dementia and a neurodegenerative illness is 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), which is distinguished by impaired memory and 
cognitive dysfunction. Decades of research have been devoted to determining its 
etiology, pathogenic processes, and biomarkers to facilitate early 
identification and clinical investigations for therapy. Neural atrophy and 
broken connections between neurons are the outcomes of the illness. The amyloid 
beta (Aβ) cascade is among the most widely recognized and important hypotheses 
of the numerous hypotheses regarding the pathogenesis of AD. This theory 
suggests that the breakdown of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) produces Aβ 
monomers. These monomers are then converted into hazardous oligomers, which in 
turn form β-sheets, fibrils, and plaques after being formed. The amyloid cascade 
theory was covered in this review, along with a summary of how it is used to 
diagnose and treat Alzheimer's. Specifically, we covered the drawbacks, 
potential, and significant unsolved issues with the anti-Aβ therapy that is now 
in use, as well as plans for more research and the creation of more workable 
Aβ-targeted methods to optimize AD early detection and management.

DOI: 10.14715/cmb/2025.70.1.12
PMID: 39910935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Mar;104(1):52-60. doi: 10.1177/13872877251313819. Epub
 2025 Feb 5.

Effects of whole-head 810 nm near-infrared therapy on cognitive and 
neuropsychiatric symptoms in Alzheimer's disease: A pilot study.

Guo R(1), Li D(1)(2), Li F(3), Ji L(3), Liu H(4), Qiao H(1), Lv Z(4)(5), Tang 
Y(6), Wang D(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Science and Medical Engineering, Ministry of Education, 
Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Biomedical Engineering, Beihang 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Software Development Environment, State Key 
Laboratory of Virtual Reality Technology and System, Beihang University, 
Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Fu Xing Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(4)Rehabilitation Hospital Affiliated to National Rehabilitation Assistive 
Devices Research Center, Beijing, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Assistive Technology for Rehabilitation of Elderly 
Dysfunction, Beijing, China.
(6)Department of Neurology & Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Center for Neurological 
Disorders, Beijing, China.
(7)Jiangsu Danyang Huichuang Medical Equipment Co., Ltd, Jiangsu, China.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by significant cognitive and behavioral impairments. Near-infrared 
(NIR) light treatment has shown potential in cognitive improvement in previous 
studies. However, clinical trials of NIR for AD remain limited.ObjectiveThis 
study investigated the safety and effects of whole-head 810 nm NIR therapy in AD 
patients, including long-term efficacy.MethodsAn open-label pilot study on 
whole-head NIR treatment for AD patients was conducted. Nine AD patients 
completed 4-month treatment (810 nm, 100 mW/cm², 30 min/session, 6 sessions 
weekly). Safety and efﬁcacy were evaluated at baseline, months 2 and 4, and 
2-month post-treatment.ResultsAfter four months of whole-head NIR treatment, 
mean changes from baseline on the Mini-Mental State Examination were 3.2 
(p = 0.02). Mean changes from baseline on the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment 
Scale-Cognitive were -5.0 (p = 0.05), mean changes from baseline on the Montreal 
Cognitive Assessment were 1.9 (p = 0.12). Mean changes from baseline on the 
Neuropsychiatric Inventory were -4.2 (p = 0.47). These benefits were sustained 
two months at least. With no device-related adverse effects were 
reported.ConclusionsWhole-head 810 nm NIR light is safe and offers promising 
benefits for AD patients. To fully confirm its efficacy, durability, and 
underlying mechanisms, further large-scale randomized controlled trials are 
necessary.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251313819
PMID: 39910867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest. Prof. Wang (the corresponding 
author) holds shares in Jiangsu Danyang Huichuang Medical Equipment Co., Ltd, 
but there are no conflicts of interest in connection with this article.


12. Eur J Med Res. 2025 Feb 5;30(1):81. doi: 10.1186/s40001-025-02315-x.

Therapeutic effect of dihydroartemisinin on Alzheimer's disease model mice with 
senile macular degeneration.

Han G(1), Xuewu G(2), Meng Z(3), Yuejing W(4), Yuchun W(4), Keshuang Z(4), 
Hongbo Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Medical 
Technology, Qiqihar Medical University, 333 Bukui North Street, Jianhua 
District, Qiqihar, 161006, Heilongjiang, China.
(2)Ophthalmology, Second Affiliated Hospital, Qiqihar Medical University, No. 
37, Zhonghua West Road, Qiqihar, 161003, Heilongjiang, China.
(3)Scientific Research Department, School of Pharmacy, Qiqihar Medical 
University, 333 Bukui North Street, Jianhua District, Qiqihar, 161003, 
Heilongjiang, China.
(4)Department of Histology and Embryology, Heilongjiang Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Food & Medicine Homology and Metabolic Disease Prevention, School 
of Basic Medical Sciences, Qiqihar Medical University, 333 Bukui North Street, 
Jianhua District, Qiqihar, 161003, Heilongjiang, China.
(5)Department of Histology and Embryology, Heilongjiang Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Food & Medicine Homology and Metabolic Disease Prevention, School 
of Basic Medical Sciences, Qiqihar Medical University, 333 Bukui North Street, 
Jianhua District, Qiqihar, 161003, Heilongjiang, China. hongboyao2016@126.com.

OBJECTIVES: This study focuses on the preventive and therapeutic effects of 
Dihydroartemisinin (DHA) on Alzheimer's disease (AD) model mice and the effects 
of DHA and donepezil on amyloid β-protein deposition and autophagy in nerve 
cells.
METHODS: Six autophagy related targets were selected for molecular docking with 
DHA to predict the affinity between DHA and the target. The AD mouse model was 
established and treated with donepezil and DHA, respectively. Morris water maze 
was used to detect the spatial learning and memory ability of AD mice. 
Hematoxylin eosin (he) staining was used to observe the structural changes of 
cerebral cortical neurons and retina, and transmission electron microscope was 
used to observe the structural changes of mitochondria and synapses. 
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and immunofluorescence staining were used to detect 
the deposition of amyloid beta protein. Western blot was used to detect the 
expression of apoptosis and autophagy related proteins in the brain tissue of 
mice in each group.
RESULTS: The results of molecular docking showed that the selected active 
compounds had good binding activity with the target. The binding energy between 
DHA and Aβ, Bcl-2, ATG5, LC3, Caspase3, LAMP1 is -5.7, -7.0, -5.8, -7.2, 
-6.9 kcal/mol. The water maze test showed that compared with the wild type (WT) 
group, the spatial memory ability of AD model group mice (5× FAD) was 
significantly decreased, and the search time (27.62 ± 6.51 s vs. 
282.80 ± 17.15 s) and average path (106.30 ± 29.65 cm vs. 993.20 ± 135.80 cm) 
were significantly prolonged. The application of donepezil and DHA significantly 
shortened the exploration time and average path (donepezil: 116.10 ± 10.58 s, 
529.40 ± 106.00 cm; DHA: 99.71 ± 14.22 s, 373.30 ± 60.97 cm). The path to find 
the platform in DHA treatment group was shorter than donepezil treatment group 
(P < 0.05). HE staining showed that the arrangement of nerve cells in 5× FAD 
mice was disordered, and IHC showed that amyloid β-protein deposition was 
obvious. DHA and donepezil could improve the damage of cerebral cortex structure 
and reduce the deposition of extracellular amyloid β-protein in AD mice. 
Transmission electron microscopy showed that DHA and donepezil could reduce 
mitochondrial vacuolation and synaptic edema. The above results showed that DHA 
treatment effect was better than donepezil. Compared with the conventional 
feeding group, autophagy and apoptosis related proteins B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL2) 
and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) were significantly down regulated in the 5× 
FAD group, and the expressions of BCL2 and ATG were increased after treatment 
with DHA and donepezil.
CONCLUSIONS: DHA combined with BCL2 and ATG protein, through promoting autophagy 
protein, can reduce the damage of cerebral cortex structure in AD mice, reduce 
the deposition of extracellular β-amyloid protein, and then improve the memory 
ability of AD model mice. DHA treatment is superior to donepezil monotherapy.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40001-025-02315-x
PMCID: PMC11796114
PMID: 39910679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: Report from animal ethical care committee of Qiqihar medical 
university (QMU-AECC-2021-75). Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


13. J Neuroinflammation. 2025 Feb 5;22(1):32. doi: 10.1186/s12974-025-03361-2.

CD22 modulation alleviates amyloid β-induced neuroinflammation.

Mai YD(#)(1), Zhang Q(#)(2)(3), Fung CL(1), Leung SO(1), Chong CH(4).

Author information:
(1)SinoMab BioScience Limited, Unit 303, 305-307, 15 Science Park West Avenue, 
Hong Kong Science Park, Pak Shek Kok, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Stem Cell & Regenerative Medicine Consortium, School of Biomedical Sciences, 
LKS Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, 5/F, Jockey Club Building 
for Interdisciplinary Research, 5 Sassoon Road, Hong Kong, China. 
zhangqq1@hku.hk.
(3)Centre for Translational Stem Cell Biology, 17W Science Park, Hong Kong SAR, 
China. zhangqq1@hku.hk.
(4)SinoMab BioScience Limited, Unit 303, 305-307, 15 Science Park West Avenue, 
Hong Kong Science Park, Pak Shek Kok, Hong Kong, China. clement@sinomab.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Neuroinflammation is a crucial driver of multiple neurodegenerative diseases, 
including Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 
Parkinson's disease (PD). Yet, therapeutic targets for neurodegenerative 
diseases based on neuroinflammation still warrant investigation. CD22 has been 
implicated in neuroinflammatory diseases, namely AD. Specifically, plasma 
soluble CD22 (sCD22) level is upregulated in patients with AD. Direct 
experimental evidence for the role of CD22 in neuroinflammation is needed, as is 
a better understanding of its impact on microglia activation and therapeutic 
potential. Here we reported that sCD22 promotes neuroinflammation both in vivo 
and in vitro. sCD22 activated microglia via both p38 and ERK1/2 signaling 
pathway for the secretion of TNFα, IL-6 and CCL3. Moreover, sCD22 activated 
microglia via sialic acid binding domain and 2,6 linked sialic acid glycan on 
sCD22. The pivotal therapeutic potential of targeting CD22 was demonstrated in 
Amyloid β (Aβ) induced-neuroinflammation in hCD22 transgenic mice. Suciraslimab 
improved working memory and resolved neuroinflammation in vivo. Further, 
membrane CD22 inhibited Amyloid β (Aβ) induced-NFκB signaling pathway and 
mechanistic study delineated that suciraslimab suppressed Aβ-induced IL-1β 
secretion in human microglia and PBMC. Suciraslimab also suppressed IL-12 and 
IL-23 secretion in human PBMC. Moreover, suciraslimab reduced the surface 
expression of α4 integrin on B cells. Intriguingly, we discovered that CD22 
interact with Aβ and suciraslimab enhanced internalization of CD22-Aβ complex in 
microglia. Our data highlights the importance of sCD22 in driving 
neuroinflammation and the dual mechanism of targeting CD22 to resolve Aβ-induced 
inflammation and promote Aβ phagocytosis.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-025-03361-2
PMCID: PMC11800469
PMID: 39910617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: The use of animal 
and performance of experiments approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee (IACUC) at GemPharmatech Co., Ltd. All methods were conducted in 
accordance with the approved guidelines. Consent for publication: All authors 
agree to publish the manuscript. This manuscript does not contains any 
individual person’s data in any form. Competing interests: CHC, SOL, YDM & CLF 
are employees of SinoMab BioScience Limited. QQZ has declared that no conflict 
of interest exists.


14. Biol Sex Differ. 2025 Feb 5;16(1):10. doi: 10.1186/s13293-025-00694-8.

Sex-specific influences of APOEε4 genotype on hippocampal neurogenesis and 
progenitor cells in middle-aged rats.

Lee BH(1)(2)(3), Cevizci M(2)(4), Lieblich SE(2)(4), Galea LAM(5)(6)(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
BC, Canada.
(2)Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(3)Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada.
(5)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
BC, Canada. liisa.galea@utoronto.ca.
(6)Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada. liisa.galea@utoronto.ca.
(7)Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, Toronto, ON, Canada. liisa.galea@utoronto.ca.
(8)Department of Psychology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada. liisa.galea@utoronto.ca.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
liisa.galea@utoronto.ca.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) disproportionately and uniquely affects 
females, and these sex differences are further exacerbated by the presence of 
Apolipoprotein (APOE) ε4 alleles, the top genetic risk factor for late-onset AD. 
To expand our understanding about how late-onset AD risk might differentially 
influence males and females, this study explores how APOEε4 affects hippocampal 
neurogenesis and microglia, key neuroplastic markers involved in AD 
pathogenesis, differently by sex in middle-aged rats.
METHODS: A rat model expressing the humanized (h) APOEε4 allele was 
characterized to examine markers of adult neurogenesis (neural progenitor cells 
and new-born neurons) and immune cells (microglia) in the dentate gyrus of the 
hippocampus in 13 month-old male and female rats.
RESULTS: We observed basal sex differences in neurogenesis at middle age, as 
wildtype male rats had greater densities of neural progenitor cells and new-born 
neurons in the dentate gyrus than wildtype female rats. Male hAPOEε4 rats 
exhibited fewer neural progenitor cells, fewer new-born neurons, and more 
microglia than male wildtype rats. On the other hand, female hAPOEε4 rats 
exhibited more new-born neurons than female wildtype rats. Interestingly, 
females had more microglia than males regardless of genotype. Correlations were 
conducted to further elucidate any sex differences in the relationships between 
these biomarkers. Notably, there was a significant positive correlation between 
neural progenitor cells and new-born neurons, and a significant negative 
correlation between new-born neurons and microglia, but only in male rats.
CONCLUSION: In contrast to the clear pattern of effects of the hAPOEε4 risk 
factor on hippocampal neurogenesis in males, females had unaltered levels of 
neural progenitor cells and increased density of new-born neurons. Furthermore, 
relationships between neurogenesis and microglia were significantly correlated 
within males, and not females. This suggests that females may be presenting a 
compensatory response to the hAPOEε4 genotype at middle age. Collectively, these 
results exemplify the importance of thoroughly examining influences of sex on AD 
endophenotypes, as it may reveal sex-specific pathways and protective mechanisms 
relevant to AD.

Plain Language Summary: Female sex and Apolipoprotein (APOE) ε4 genotype are top 
risk factors for late-onset Alzheimer’s disease. This research investigates how 
these two risk factors might interact to influence biomarkers of brain health at 
middle age using a rat model. Compared to healthy controls, male rats with 
hAPOEε4 genotype showed reduced neural stem cell-like cells and new adult-born 
brain cells and increased microglia (marker of inflammation in the brain) at 
middle age. In contrast, female rats with hAPOEε4 genotype showed increased new 
adult-born neurons, but no changes in the other cell types, suggesting a 
possible compensatory response to the effects of hAPOEε4 at this time point. 
These results highlight the importance of examining sex-specific pathways in AD, 
as they may uncover unique protective mechanisms and inform development of 
tailored treatment strategies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13293-025-00694-8
PMCID: PMC11796140
PMID: 39910616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All experiments were carried out in accordance with the Canadian 
Council for Animal Care guidelines and were approved by the animal care 
committee at the University of British Columbia. All efforts were made to reduce 
the number of animals used and their suffering during all procedures. Consent 
for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


15. J Neuroeng Rehabil. 2025 Feb 5;22(1):22. doi: 10.1186/s12984-025-01566-3.

Efficacy of non-invasive brain stimulation interventions on cognitive 
impairment: an umbrella review of meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials.

Wu M(1), Song W(1), Wang X(2), Teng L(1), Li J(1), Zhang J(1), Li X(1), Yu D(1), 
Jia H(1), Wang B(1), Tang Q(2)(3), Zhu L(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Heilongjiang University of Chinese 
Medicine, Harbin, China.
(2)Rehabilitation Center, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Heilongjiang 
University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, China.
(3)Heilongjiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Function and 
Neurorehabilitation, Harbin, China.
(4)Rehabilitation Center, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Heilongjiang 
University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, China. zhuluwen1983@126.com.
(5)Heilongjiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Function and 
Neurorehabilitation, Harbin, China. zhuluwen1983@126.com.

BACKGROUND: The impact of noninvasive brain stimulation (NIBS) on cognitive and 
mental outcomes in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) 
remains under debate due to contradictory findings from systematic reviews and 
meta-analyses (SRMAs). To synthesize evidence from SRMAs assessing the 
effectiveness of NIBS techniques on cognitive and mental outcomes in AD and MCI 
populations. By comparing our findings to recent reviews and clinical 
guidelines, we highlight how this study addresses current limitations in the 
literature, provides a more holistic perspective on NIBS interventions, and 
guides future research and clinical practice.
METHODS: We searched four databases from inception to May 15, 2024, reviewing 
SRMAs that analyzed the effects of NIBS. Effect sizes, 95% confidence intervals 
(CIs), and prediction intervals were computed for each meta-analysis. The 
methodological quality of the SRMAs was evaluated using the Measurement Tool to 
Assess Systematic Reviews 2, and the quality of evidence was assessed through 
the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation 
criteria.
FINDINGS: Ten SRMAs detailing 22 associations were analyzed, focusing on two 
NIBS techniques across 12 unique outcomes. Significant improvements were 
observed in global cognition, language, executive function, and memory. 
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) significantly enhanced 
short-term global cognition (standardized mean difference [SMD], 0.44; 95% CI 
0.02-0.86), language (SMD, 1.64; 95% CI 1.22-2.06), executive function (SMD, 
1.64; 95% CI 0.18-0.83), and long-term global cognition (SMD, 0.29; 95% CI 
0.07-0.50). Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) was effective in 
improving memory (SMD, 0.60; 95% CI 0.32-0.89) and executive function (SMD, 
0.39; 95% CI 0.08-0.71). NIBS interventions showed no significant correlation 
with neuropsychiatric symptoms but demonstrated good tolerability in terms of 
safety and acceptability.
INTERPRETATION: This umbrella review indicates that NIBS techniques, 
particularly rTMS and tDCS, can significantly improve cognitive functions such 
as global cognition, language, executive functions, and memory in patients with 
AD and MCI. Despite potential benefits, results should be interpreted cautiously 
due to study heterogeneity and methodological limitations. Future studies should 
investigate their long-term effects and applicability across dementia types.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12984-025-01566-3
PMCID: PMC11796046
PMID: 39910547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: All authors have approved 
this manuscript for publication. This manuscript has not previously been 
published and is not pending publication elsewhere. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


16. BMC Neurol. 2025 Feb 5;25(1):49. doi: 10.1186/s12883-025-04057-z.

Influence of immune cells and inflammatory factors on Alzheimer's disease axis: 
evidence from mediation Mendelian randomization study.

Linzhu(1), Zhang J(1), Fan W(1), Su C(1), Jin Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, the Second Hospital of Shandong 
University, Jinan, 250014, China.
(2)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, the Second Hospital of Shandong 
University, Jinan, 250014, China. zhijinsdey@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common forms of dementia 
in the elderly, characterized by progressive neurodegeneration. While the exact 
etiology of AD remains unclear, immune inflammation is known to play a 
significant role in the disease.
METHODS: This study utilized a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) approach 
to assess the causal relationship between different types of immune cells and 
AD, while considering inflammatory factors as intermediate variables. Data were 
collected from three sources: immune cell data (731 phenotypes), inflammatory 
factors (48 cytokines from 8,293 individuals), and AD data (35,274 cases, 59,163 
controls). Multiple MR methods were employed to minimize bias, and detailed 
descriptions of instrumental variable selection and statistical methods were 
provided.
RESULTS: The study findings suggest potential causal relationships between six 
different types of immune cells and AD, as well as causal relationships between 
13 immune cells and inflammatory factors. Additionally, two statistically 
significant inflammatory factors were found to have potential causal 
relationships with AD. Specifically, immune cells CD33-HLA DR + and CD45 on 
CD33-HLA DR + may further influence AD by regulating Interleukin-2 levels.
CONCLUSION: This study provides valuable insights into the immunoinflammatory 
pathogenesis of AD and offers partial guidance for the development of relevant 
interventions, thereby contributing beneficial information for the prevention 
and treatment of related diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12883-025-04057-z
PMCID: PMC11796147
PMID: 39910474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. All data were downloaded from the internet. Consent 
for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Conflict of interest: The authors declare that the research 
was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that 
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


17. Sci Rep. 2025 Feb 5;15(1):4379. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-88542-y.

Network pharmacology and experimental verification to investigate the mechanism 
of isoliquiritigenin for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Gao W(#)(1), Yang G(#)(1), Liu X(1), Hu K(1), Pan J(1), Wang X(1), Zhao Y(2), Xu 
Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Integrative Medicine, Shanghai University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1200 Cailun Road, Shanghai, 201203, China.
(2)Department of Physiology, School of Integrative Medicine, Shanghai University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1200 Cailun Road, Shanghai, 201203, China. 
yanzhao319@shutcm.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Physiology, School of Integrative Medicine, Shanghai University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1200 Cailun Road, Shanghai, 201203, China. 
yingxu612@shutcm.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Isoliquiritigenin (ISL), a flavone isolated from licorice, has been demonstrated 
to exhibit anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties in the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the molecular details of the contribution of 
ISL to AD remain largely elusive. The present study aimed to investigate the 
molecular mechanisms of ISL against AD. In this study, AD targets and ISL 
targets were collected via different databases. The overlapped targets between 
AD and ISL were generated with Venny. Then we performed Gene Ontology (GO) and 
Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses on 
these common targets. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was 
constructed and clusters were obtained using the Molecular Complex Detection 
(MCODE) and the Cytohubba plugins. Further, molecular docking study was 
performed for these core targets. Subsequently, the receiver operating 
characteristic (ROC) curve analysis and the assessment of hub gene expression 
levels between AD and healthy individuals were used to estimate a possible link 
between target genes in AD. Finally, experiments were conducted to verify the 
therapeutic mechanism of ISL in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced BV2 microglial 
cells. GO and KEGG pathway analysis found that ISL was significantly enriched in 
regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. The PPI 
network manifested 7 key targets including albumin (ALB), epidermal growth 
factor receptor (EGFR), solute carrier family 2 member 1 (SLC2A1), insulin-like 
growth factor 1 (IGF1), mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MAPK1), peroxisome 
proliferator activated receptor alpha (PPARA) and peroxisome proliferator 
activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ, PPARG). Molecular docking showed that ISL had 
high binding affinity with these key targets. The experimental results revealed 
that ISL decreased extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) 
phosphorylation and increased the expression of PPAR-γ, and suppressed the 
production of proinflammatory mediators. Our work revealed that ISL might be an 
effective treatment strategy in the treatment of AD by its anti-inflammatory 
effect towards microglia through the ERK/PPAR-γ pathway.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-88542-y
PMCID: PMC11799321
PMID: 39910202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


18. Anal Biochem. 2025 May;700:115799. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2025.115799. Epub 2025
Feb  4.

Quantification of amyloid-β aggregation inhibitors gallic acid and rosmarinic 
acid in biological samples by LC-MS/MS.

Ştefănescu R(1).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Research and Development Center for Experimental Medicine "Prof. 
Ostin C. Mungiu" - CEMEX, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine and Pharmacy 
of Iasi, 16 Universității Street, 700115, Iaşi, Romania. Electronic address: 
raluca.stefanescu@umfiasi.ro.

The decline of the cognitive functions encountered at patients diagnosed with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) together with the findings of extracellular amyloid 
deposits, intracellular neurofibrillary tangles and microvascular angiopathy in 
brain were described at beginning of the 20th century. According to the amyloid 
cascade hypothesis, the overproduction of amyloid-β peptide and its aggregation 
into neurotoxic oligomers, fibrils, and amyloid plaques is considered the cause 
of AD. Amyloid-β fibril formation was experimentally proven in vitro using 
thioflavin T assay in the absence of interfering chemical compounds and the 
assay became an analytical tool for assessing the effects of different molecules 
against amyloid-β aggregation. Recent research studies provided experimental 
results that indicated the reduction of fibril formation by gallic acid and 
rosmarinic acid. Mass spectrometry was often employed in studies aiming at 
identifying, characterizing, and quantitating chemical compounds able to modify 
the progress of AD. The purpose of this review is to present current research 
studies regarding the identification and quantitation of the water-soluble 
gallic acid and rosmarinic acid in biological samples using liquid 
chromatographs coupled to triple quadrupole mass spectrometers as bioanalytical 
tools. The present study highlights the presence and amount of these chemical 
compounds in commonly used medicinal plants and culinary herbs and provides a 
list of extraction and liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray-triple 
quadrupole mass spectrometry methods examples described in previous 
pharmacokinetic studies. The article underlines the bioavailability and safety 
of gallic acid and rosmarinic acid for further research studies aiming at 
preventing and slowing the progress of AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Author. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2025.115799
PMID: 39909215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


19. J Neurosci Methods. 2025 Apr;416:110386. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2025.110386.
 Epub 2025 Feb 3.

Discrete variational autoencoders BERT model-based transcranial focused 
ultrasound for Alzheimer's disease detection.

Thipparthy KR(1), Kollu A(2), Kulkarni C(3), Dutta AK(4), Doshi H(5), Kashyap 
A(6), Sinha KP(7), Kondaveeti SB(8), Gupta R(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer science, Fairleigh Dickinson University, Teaneck, USA. 
Electronic address: kthipparthy@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Computer Engineering, PCET Pimpri Chinchwad College of 
Engineering and Research, Pune, India. Electronic address: kadarchna@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Computer Engineering, VPKBIET, Baramati, Maharashtra, India. 
Electronic address: chaitanya.kulkarni@vpkbiet.org.
(4)Department of Computer Science and Information Systems, College of Applied 
Sciences, AlMaarefa University, Ad Diriyah, Riyadh 13713, Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia. Electronic address: adotta@um.edu.sa.
(5)Marwadi University Research Center, Department of Computer Engineering, 
Faculty of Engineering & Technology, Marwadi University, Rajkot, Gujarat 360003, 
India. Electronic address: hardik.doshi@marwadieducation.edu.in.
(6)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Graphic Era Hill University, 
Dehradun, India; Graphic Era Deemed to be University, Dehradun, Uttarakhand 
248002, India. Electronic address: aditya_kashyap2024@outlook.com.
(7)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Nalanda College of 
Engineering, Chandi Bihar Engineering University, Patna, India. Electronic 
address: priyankasinha2008@gmail.com.
(8)Dept of Biochemistry, Symbiosis Medical College for Women, Symbiosis 
International (Deemed University), Pune, India. Electronic address: 
ksuresh.babu@smcw.siu.edu.in.
(9)Chitkara University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Chitkara 
University, Punjab, India. Electronic address: rupesh.gupta@chitkara.edu.in.

RESEARCH BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition 
marked by symptoms including aphasia and diminished verbal fluency. Researchers 
have employed phonetic attributes, fluency, pauses, and various paralinguistic 
traits, or derived aspects from transcribed text, to identify Alzheimer's 
disease.
METHODS AND METHODOLOGY: Nevertheless, conventional acoustic feature-based 
detection techniques are constrained in their ability to capture semantic 
information, and the process of transcribing speech into text is both 
time-consuming and labour-intensive. Non-invasive brain stimulation (NBS), 
encompassing methods such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and 
Transcranial focused ultrasound (tFUS), has been investigated as a potential 
intervention to enhance cognitive functions and communication in Alzheimer's 
patients, demonstrating efficacy in modulating brain activity and promoting 
neuroplasticity. This research utilises Discrete Variational Autoencoders to 
transform speech into pseudo-phoneme sequences, subsequently applying the BERT 
(Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) model to analyse the 
relationships among these pseudo-phoneme sequences. This research proposes a 
tFUS-BERT model to encapsulate the linguistic representations of audio.
RESULT ANALYSIS: The proposed tFUS-BERT model demonstrated its effectiveness 
with an accuracy of 76.06 % when combined with Wav2vec 2.0 and 71.83 % with 
Hu-BERT, outperforming the baseline by 5.63 % on the ADReSSo dataset. 
Additionally, the model exhibited superior performance in capturing linguistic 
representations compared to traditional acoustic methods, showcasing its 
potential for accurate and scalable Alzheimer's detection.
COMPARISON WITH PREVIOUS STUDIES: The model attains an accuracy of 70.42 % on 
the ADReSSo (Alzheimer's Dementia Recognition through Spontaneous Speech Only) 
dataset, reflecting a 5.63 % enhancement compared to the baseline system.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2025.110386
PMID: 39909160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


20. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2025 May;26(5):105485. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2025.105485. 
Epub 2025 Mar 31.

Treatment of Restless Legs Syndrome Improves Agitation and Sleep in Persons with 
Dementia: A Randomized Trial.

Richards KC(1), Fry LM(2), Lozano AJ(3), Ji W(3), Morrison JD(4), Britt KC(5), 
Bliwise DL(6), Gooneratne NS(7), Hanlon AL(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA. Electronic 
address: kricha@utexas.edu.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine and Austin Geriatrics Specialists, Dell 
Medical School, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Statistics, Virginia Tech, Roanoke, VA, USA.
(4)School of Nursing, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA.
(5)College of Nursing, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(7)Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Restless legs syndrome (RLS), a common, treatable, sensorimotor 
disorder of nighttime uncomfortable leg sensations that interfere with sleep, 
may prompt nighttime agitation in persons with dementia.
DESIGN: This randomized trial was double-blind and placebo-controlled. 
Participants received a Food and Drug Administration-approved drug for RLS, 
gabapentin enacarbil (GEn) (Horizant) or placebo.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Older adults (N = 147) with dementia due to 
Alzheimer's disease, nighttime agitation, and RLS, residing in long-term care or 
at home, participated.
METHODS: The primary outcome was change from baseline to 8 weeks in nighttime 
agitation between 5 pm and 7 am on the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory 
Index, Direct Observation. Multivariable linear mixed effects regression models 
based on multiply imputed data were estimated on nighttime agitation and sleep, 
with treatment group, week, the 2-way interaction of group and week as 
predictors, and mean arterial pressure as a covariate based on baseline group 
imbalances.
RESULTS: Mean age ± SD was 83.4 ± 9.1 years. Most were female (72.0%), white 
(92.3%), non-Hispanic (84.6%), and lived in nursing homes (76.9%). Nighttime 
agitation, by group over time, was significant at 8 weeks (estimate, -1.67; P = 
.003) and 2 weeks. Total sleep time (actigraphy) by group over time was 
significant at 8 weeks (estimate, 48.45; P = .026). Observed nighttime wake by 
group over time was significant at 2 (estimate, -12.54; P = .006) and 8 weeks 
(estimate, -11.12; P = .015). The number having ≥1 adverse events was 60 in the 
GEn group (81.1%) and 50 in the placebo group (68.5%); with 12 serious adverse 
events in placebo and 10 in the GEn group. The GEn group had a trend toward more 
falls (P = .066).
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Our findings suggest a novel approach for 
nighttime agitation in persons with dementia: assessing for RLS and initiating 
interventions. Larger and longer trials are needed.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2025.105485
PMID: 39909068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure D.L.B. has consulted for Ferring, 
Idorsia, and Merck. K.C.R. has consulted for Merck and Woolsey. These are not 
actual conflicts but could be construed as such. The other authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


21. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2025 Jun;250:114538. doi: 
10.1016/j.colsurfb.2025.114538. Epub 2025 Jan 26.

Revealing the mechanism of two rimantadine derivatives inhibiting Aβ aggregation 
and destabilizing Aβ protofibrils by molecular dynamics simulation.

Zhang J(1), Yang Y(2), Zhang C(3), Wang Y(2), Su R(4), Qi W(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering 
and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Chinese Medicine Modernization, Tianjin University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, PR China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Chinese Medicine Modernization, Tianjin University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 301617, PR China. Electronic address: 
zhangchengyu_ok@126.com.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering 
and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, PR China; Collaborative 
Innovation Centre of Chemical Science and Engineering (Tianjin), Tianjin 300072, 
PR China; Tianjin Key Laboratory of Membrane Science and Desalination 
Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, PR China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering 
and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, PR China; Collaborative 
Innovation Centre of Chemical Science and Engineering (Tianjin), Tianjin 300072, 
PR China; Tianjin Key Laboratory of Membrane Science and Desalination 
Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, PR China. Electronic address: 
qiwei@tju.edu.cn.

Two rimantadine derivatives, m-aminobenzoyl rimantadine (meta) and 
p-aminobenzoyl rimantadine (para), have been demonstrated to effectively inhibit 
the aggregation of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides. However, the exact atomic-level 
mechanism remains elusive. In this study, we investigated the inhibitory 
mechanisms of meta and para on Aβ aggregation. Using replica-exchange and 
microsecond classical molecular dynamics simulations, we analyzed the 
conformational ensembles of Aβ dimers and the structure of Aβ(1-40) protofibrils 
both with and without the rimantadine derivatives. Results showed that meta and 
para inhibit Aβ aggregation by hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions with 
Aβ dimers. Meta mainly binds to CHC residues F19 and F20 to disrupt hydrophobic 
contacts, while para targets β-turns and the K28-V40 region, destabilizing the 
hydrophobic core and increasing structural flexibility, thus preventing stable 
dimer formation. Para exhibits a higher binding affinity and is more effective 
in inhibiting Aβ aggregation and destabilizing protofibrils. These findings 
provide valuable insights into the atomic-level mechanisms by which meta and 
para inhibit Aβ aggregation, offering promising avenues for the exploration of 
potential therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease (AD).

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2025.114538
PMID: 39908957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


22. Int Immunopharmacol. 2025 Mar 6;149:114188. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.114188.  Epub 2025 Feb 6.

The shared mechanism of barrier dysfunction in ulcerative colitis and 
Alzheimer's disease: DDIT4/IL1β neutrophil extracellular traps drive 
macrophages-mediated phagocytosis.

Li SH(1), Huang QH(1), Yang QQ(1), Huang Q(1), Wang DX(2), Yang J(3), Huang 
SH(4), Zhang SY(4), Wang JM(1), Xie LS(4), Yu SG(5), Wu QF(6).

Author information:
(1)Acupuncture and Moxibustion College, Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan 610075, China.
(2)College of Intelligent Medicine, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan 610075, China.
(3)Suining Municipal Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Suining, Sichuan 
629000, China.
(4)Basic Medicine College, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Chengdu, Sichuan 610075, China.
(5)Acupuncture and Moxibustion College, Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan 610075, China. Electronic address: 
ysg@cdutcm.edu.cn.
(6)Acupuncture and Moxibustion College, Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan 610075, China; Key Laboratory of Acupuncture 
for Senile Disease (Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine), 
Ministry of Education, Chengdu, Sichuan 610075, China; Institute of Acupuncture 
and Homeostasis Regulation, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Chengdu, Sichuan 610075, China. Electronic address: wuqiaofeng@cdutcm.edu.cn.

Ulcerative colitis (UC) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) share a common etiology as 
inflammatory diseases characterized by barrier deterioration. The aim of this 
study is to elucidate how neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), serving as a 
comorbid etiological factor, can trigger the dysfunction in both the intestinal 
barrier and blood-brain barrier (BBB). Integrated bioinformatics analysis 
revealed 14 overlapped NETs-related differential expressed genes in UC and AD, 
which strongly featured barrier dysfunction. The following verification 
experiments identified enriched NETs, as well as damaged intestinal epithelium 
and BBB permeability, in the colon and prefrontal cortex of colitis mice and 
APP/PS1 mice. By employing pharmacological interventions (Cl-amidine and 
Disulfiram), we disrupted the formation of NETs and discovered significantly 
restored barrier integrity and attenuated inflammation. Further enrichment and 
correlation analysis indicated, for the first time, DDIT4/IL-1β NETs might drive 
macrophage-mediated phagocytosis to induce barrier dysfunction in UC and AD. Our 
findings originally established the peripheral-central inflammation interactions 
of UC and AD from the perspective of NETs, highlighting the potential valuable 
roles in gut-brain interactions and future clinic translational therapeutics.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.114188
PMID: 39908802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Mar;156:108226. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108226. Epub
2025  Jan 30.

Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) agonists as promising 
neurotherapeutics.

Ghannam IAY(1), Hassan RM(2), Abdel-Maksoud MS(2).

Author information:
(1)Chemistry of Natural and Microbial Products Department, Pharmaceutical and 
Drug Industries Research Institute, National Research Centre, Dokki, Cairo 
12622, Egypt. Electronic address: iman.youssef.ghannam@gmail.com.
(2)Medicinal and Pharmaceutical Chemistry Department, Pharmaceutical and Drug 
Industries Research Institute, National Research Centre (ID: 60014618), P.O. 
12622, Dokki, Giza, Egypt.

Neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by a continuous neurons loss 
resulting in a wide range of pathogenesis affecting the motor impairment. 
Several strategies are outlined for therapeutics of synthetic and natural PPARs 
agonists in some neurological disorders; Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), Multiple sclerosis (MS), Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and 
Huntington's disease (HD). The aim of this review is to provide a recent update 
of the previously reported studies, and reviews dealing with the medicinal 
chemistry of PPARs and their agonists, and to highlight the outstanding advances 
in the development of both synthetic compounds including; PPARα agonists 
(fibrates), PPARγ agonists (thiazolidindiones), and PPARβ/δ agonists either as 
sole or dual acting PPAR full or pan agonists, in addition to the natural 
phytochemicals; acids, cannabinoids, and flavonoids for their different 
neuroprotection effects in the previously mentioned neurodegenerative disorders 
(PD, AD, MS, ALS, and HD). Moreover, this review reports the diverse 
pre-clinical and clinical studies of PPARs agonists in the neurodegenerative 
diseases via cellular, and animal models and human.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108226
PMID: 39908735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


24. J Clin Neurosci. 2025 Apr;134:111101. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2025.111101. Epub
2025  Feb 4.

Clinical trials targeting tau should be halted.

Olluri A(1).

Author information:
(1)Independent and unaffiliated student, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden. Electronic address: andi_ronaldo@hotmail.se.

Experimental drugs lowering brain tau are heralded as improvements in the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease. However, the outcomes in clinical trials 
testing these agents have consistently failed to improve patient outcomes, i.e. 
slow down disease or improving cognition. Furthermore, the scientific rationale 
behind such drugs is rather poor in the first place and has been questioned. 
Therefore, I argue that trials of anti-tau drugs should be halted.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2025.111101
PMID: 39908690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


25. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2025 Mar;25(3):275-283. doi: 
10.1080/14712598.2025.2463963. Epub 2025 Feb 7.

Successes and failures: the latest advances in the clinical development of 
amyloid-β-targeting monoclonal antibodies for treating Alzheimer's disease.

Panza F(1), Dibello V(1)(2), Sardone R(3), Zupo R(4), Castellana F(4), 
Leccisotti I(5), Moretti MC(5), Altamura M(5), Bellomo A(5), Daniele A(6)(7), 
Solfrizzi V(1), Resta E(8), Lozupone M.

Author information:
(1)"Cesare Frugoni" Internal and Geriatric Medicine and Memory Unit, University 
of Bari "Aldo Moro", Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Orofacial Pain and Dysfunction, Academic Centre for Dentistry 
Amsterdam (ACTA), University of Amsterdam and Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Unit of Statistics and Epidemiology, Local Health Authority of Taranto, 
Taranto, Italy.
(4)Department of Translational Biomedicine and Neuroscience "DiBrain", 
University of Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy.
(5)Psychiatric Unit, Department of Clinical & Experimental Medicine, University 
of Foggia, Foggia, Italy.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Catholic University of Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy.
(7)Neurology Unit, IRCCS Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli, Rome, 
Italy.
(8)Translational Medicine and Health System Management, Department of Economy, 
University of Foggia, Foggia, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: The amyloid cascade hypothesis postulated that the accumulation of 
amyloid-β (Aβ) was the first step of the Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathological 
process. Effective reduction of Aβ plaque load by numerous drug candidates, 
among which anti-Aβ monoclonal antibodies, has produced discussible clinical 
successes and several failures. It was questioned whether Aβ may be the 
principal AD pathogenic factor and a valid therapeutic target and if targeting 
Aβ different species could make the difference.
AREAS COVERED: This review article summarized successes and failures of anti-Aβ 
monoclonal antibody therapy for AD, delineating the latest advances for their 
clinical development also according to their target engagement and downstream 
biomarkers.
EXPERT OPINION: The preliminary success of the recent Phase III randomized 
clinical trials (RCTs) of lecanemab, donanemab, and remternetug, and lessons 
learned from the failure of previous anti-Aβ monoclonal antibodies RCTs, 
provided critical evidence to support the role of Aβ in AD pathogenesis. The 
loss of free Aβ instead of an Aβ toxicity may promote AD neuropathology. 
Cerebrospinal fluid analyses (i.e. increases in Aβ1-42) may indicate a potential 
benefit of anti-Aβ monoclonal antibodies in AD and downstream biomarkers should 
be considered for providing comprehension in cognitive and clinical efficacy of 
future AD RCTs.

DOI: 10.1080/14712598.2025.2463963
PMID: 39908579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Med Chem. 2025 Feb 27;68(4):3970-3994. doi: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.4c01779.
Epub  2025 Feb 5.

Mitophagy in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Mechanisms of Action and the Advances 
of Drug Discovery.

Yang P(1), Shuai W(1), Wang X(1), Hu X(1), Zhao M(1), Wang A(1), Wu Y(1), Ouyang 
L(1), Wang G(1).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Center of Nursing Research, Nursing Key Laboratory of Sichuan 
Province, Department of Biotherapy, Cancer Center and State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, National Clinical Research Center for Geriatrics, West China 
Hospital, Sichuan University/West China School of Nursing, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu 610041, China.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs), such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), are devastating brain diseases and are incurable at 
the moment. Increasing evidence indicates that NDDs are associated with 
mitochondrial dysfunction. Mitophagy removes defective or redundant mitochondria 
to maintain cell homeostasis, whereas deficient mitophagy accelerates the 
accumulation of damaged mitochondria to mediate the pathologies of NDDs. 
Therefore, targeting mitophagy has become a valuable therapeutic pathway for the 
treatment of NDDs. Several mitophagy modulators have been shown to ameliorate 
neurodegeneration in PD and AD. However, it remains to be further investigated 
for other NDDs. Here, we describe the mechanism and key signaling pathway of 
mitophagy and summarize the roles of defective mitophagy on the pathogenesis of 
NDDs. Further, we underline the development advances of mitophagy modulators for 
PD and AD therapy, discuss the therapeutic challenges and limitations of the 
existing modulators, and provide guidelines for mitophagy mechanism exploration 
and drug design.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.4c01779
PMID: 39908485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Sci Adv. 2025 Feb 7;11(6):eadq6038. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adq6038. Epub 2025
Feb  5.

Reducing microglial lipid load enhances β amyloid phagocytosis in an Alzheimer's 
disease mouse model.

Wu X(1), Miller JA(2), Lee BTK(2), Wang Y(2), Ruedl C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(2)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, Singapore.

Macrophages accumulate lipid droplets (LDs) under stress and inflammatory 
conditions. Despite the presence of LD-loaded macrophages in many tissues, 
including the brain, their contribution to neurodegenerative disorders remains 
elusive. This study investigated the role of lipid metabolism in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) by assessing the contribution of LD-loaded brain macrophages, 
including microglia and border-associated macrophages (BAMs), in an AD mouse 
model. Particularly, BAMs and activated CD11c+ microglia localized near β 
amyloid (Aβ) plaques exhibited a pronounced lipid-associated gene signature and 
a high LD load. Having observed that elevated intracellular LD content 
correlated inversely with microglial phagocytic activities, we subsequently 
inhibited LD formation specifically in CX3CR1+ brain macrophages using an 
inducible APP-KI/Fit2iΔMφ transgenic mouse model. We demonstrated that reducing 
LD content in microglia and CX3CR1+ BAMs remarkably improved their phagocytic 
ability. Furthermore, lowering microglial LDs consistently enhanced their 
efferocytosis capacities and notably reduced Aβ deposition in the brain 
parenchyma. Therefore, mitigating LD accumulation in brain macrophages provides 
perspectives for AD treatment.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adq6038
PMCID: PMC11797491
PMID: 39908361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Adv Sci (Weinh). 2025 Mar;12(12):e2410910. doi: 10.1002/advs.202410910. Epub 
2025 Feb 5.

Microglial cGAS Deletion Preserves Intercellular Communication and Alleviates 
Amyloid-β-Induced Pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease.

He S(1)(2), Li X(1), Mittra N(1), Bhattacharjee A(1), Wang H(1), Song S(1), Zhao 
S(1)(3), Liu F(4), Han X(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, 78229, USA.
(2)Department of Cellular and Integrative Physiology, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, 78229, USA.
(3)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, 78229, USA.
(4)Metabolic Syndrome Research Center, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central 
South University, Changsha, Hunan, 410011, China.
(5)Division of Diabetes, Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, 78229, USA.

Innate immune activation plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and related dementias (ADRD). The cytosolic DNA sensing pathway, 
involving cGAMP synthase (cGAS) and Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING), has 
emerged as a key mediator of neurodegenerative diseases. However, the precise 
mechanisms through which cGAS activation influences AD progression remain poorly 
understood. In this study, we observed significant up-regulation of cGAS-STING 
signaling pathway in AD. Notably, this increase is primarily attributed to 
microglia, rather than non-microglial cell types. Using an inducible, 
microglia-specific cGAS knockout mouse model in the 5xFAD background, we 
demonstrated that deleting microglial cGAS at the onset of amyloid-β (Aβ) 
pathology profoundly restricts plaque accumulation and protects mice from 
Aβ-induced cognitive impairment. Mechanistically, our study revealed cGAS 
promotes plaque-associated microglia accumulation and is essential for 
inflammasome activation. Moreover, we showed that restricting cGAS-mediated 
innate immunity is crucial for preserving inter-cellular communication in the 
brain and induces pleiotrophin, a neuroprotective factor. These findings offer 
novel insights into the specific roles of the innate immune system in AD 
employing a cell-type-specific approach. The conclusions provide a foundation 
for targeted interventions to modulate the microglial cGAS-STING signaling 
pathway, offering promising therapeutic strategy for AD treatment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/advs.202410910
PMCID: PMC11948024
PMID: 39908354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


29. J Phys Chem B. 2025 Feb 20;129(7):1916-1926. doi: 10.1021/acs.jpcb.4c06423.
Epub  2025 Feb 5.

Exploring the Potential Interaction between the Functional Prion Protein CPEB3 
and the Amyloidogenic Pathogenic Protein Tau.

Babu AT(1), Abdul Vahid A(1), Reselammal DS(1), Kizhakkeduth ST(1), Pinhero 
F(1), Vijayan V(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research 
Thiruvananthapuram (IISER TVM), Vithura, Thiruvananthapuram 695551, India.

Abnormal aggregation of tau protein is pathologically linked to Alzheimer's 
disease, while the aggregation of the prion-like RNA-binding protein (RBP) CPEB3 
is functional and is associated with long-term memory. However, the interaction 
between these two memory-related proteins has not yet been explored. Our 
residue-specific NMR relaxation study revealed that the first prion domain of 
CPEB3 (PRD1) interacts with the 306VQIVYKPVDLSKV318 segment of tau and prevents 
the aggregation of tau-K18. Notably, this interaction is synergistic as it not 
only inhibits tau-K18 aggregation but also enhances PRD1 fibril formation. We 
also studied the interaction of different PRD1 subdomains with tau-K18 to 
elucidate the precise region of PRD1 that inhibits tau-K18 aggregation. This 
revealed that the PRD1-Q region is responsible for preventing tau-K18 
aggregation. Inspired by this, we synthesized a 15 amino acid Poly-Q peptide 
that inhibits tau-K18 aggregation, suggesting its potential as a small drug-like 
molecule for Alzheimer's disease therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcb.4c06423
PMID: 39908090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Neurosci Bull. 2025 May;41(5):821-836. doi: 10.1007/s12264-025-01354-y. Epub 
2025 Feb 5.

Triple-Target Inhibition of Cholinesterase, Amyloid Aggregation, and GSK3β to 
Ameliorate Cognitive Deficits and Neuropathology in the Triple-Transgenic Mouse 
Model of Alzheimer's Disease.

He J(#)(1), Sun S(#)(1)(2), Wang H(3), Ying Z(4), Tam KY(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Macau, Taipa, Macau SAR, China.
(2)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, 215127, 
China.
(3)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, 215127, 
China. wanghongfeng@suda.edu.cn.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, 215127, 
China. zheng.ying@suda.edu.cn.
(5)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Macau, Taipa, Macau SAR, China. 
kintam@um.edu.mo.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) poses one of the most urgent medical challenges in the 
21st century as it affects millions of people. Unfortunately, the 
etiopathogenesis of AD is not yet fully understood and the current 
pharmacotherapy options are somewhat limited. Here, we report a novel inhibitor, 
Compound 44, for targeting cholinesterases, amyloid-β (Aβ) aggregation, and 
glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK-3β) simultaneously with the aim of achieving 
symptomatic relief and disease modification in AD therapy. We found that 
Compound 44 had good inhibitory effects on all intended targets with IC50s of 
submicromolar or better, significant neuroprotective effects in cell models, and 
beneficial improvement of cognitive deficits in the triple transgenic AD (3 × Tg 
AD) mouse model. Moreover, we showed that Compound 44 acts as an autophagy 
regulator by inducing nuclear translocation of transcription factor EB through 
GSK-3β inhibition, enhancing the biogenesis of lysosomes and elevating 
autophagic flux, thus ameliorating the amyloid burden and tauopathy, as well as 
mitigating the disease phenotype. Our results suggest that triple-target 
inhibition via Compound 44 could be a promising strategy that may lead to the 
development of effective therapeutic approaches for AD.

© 2025. Center for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1007/s12264-025-01354-y
PMCID: PMC12014999
PMID: 39907971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest and have nothing to disclose.


31. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2025 Mar;64(3):407-424. doi: 10.1007/s40262-025-01482-8. 
Epub 2025 Feb 5.

Clinical Pharmacokinetics of Oral ALZ-801/Valiltramiprosate in a 2-Year Phase 2 
Trial of APOE4 Carriers with Early Alzheimer's Disease.

Hey JA(1), Yu JY(2), Abushakra S(2), Schaefer JF(2), Power A(2), Kesslak P(2), 
Paul J(2), Tolar M(2).

Author information:
(1)Alzheon Inc., 111 Speen Street, Suite 306, Framingham, MA, 01701, USA. 
john.hey@alzheon.com.
(2)Alzheon Inc., 111 Speen Street, Suite 306, Framingham, MA, 01701, USA.

INTRODUCTION: ALZ-801/valiltramiprosate is an oral, small-molecule inhibitor of 
β-amyloid (Aβ) oligomer formation in late-stage development as a potential 
disease-modifying therapy for Alzheimer's disease (AD). ALZ-801, a 
valine-conjugated prodrug, is rapidly converted to tramiprosate after oral 
dosing. Upon conversion to tramiprosate, it generates a single metabolite, 
3-sulfopropanoic acid (3-SPA). Both tramiprosate and 3-SPA are active anti-Aβ 
oligomer agents that mediate ALZ-801's central mechanism of action (MOA). We 
summarize herein the pharmacokinetics (PK) of ALZ-801 in apolipoprotein ε4 
(APOE4) carrier subjects with early AD from a phase 2 trial.
METHODS: The ALZ-801 phase 2 study was designed to evaluate longitudinal effects 
of ALZ-801 (265 mg BID) on plasma, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and volumetric 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) AD biomarkers, and clinical outcomes over 104 
weeks in APOE4 carriers with early AD. Eighty-four subjects (31 APOE4/4 
homozygotes and 53 APOE3/4 heterozygotes) with positive CSF biomarkers of 
amyloid and tau pathology were enrolled. The phase 2 study included a substudy 
of 24 subjects to provide 8-h steady-state PK at 65 weeks. Sparse PK samples 
were also analyzed. The relationships between plasma PK exposure and clinical 
characteristics [i.e., sex, APOE genotype, age, body mass index (BMI), estimated 
glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), concomitant acetylcholinesterase inhibitor 
(AChEI) use, and tablet lot] were evaluated.
RESULTS: The steady-state plasma PK results were closely aligned with the 
previous 2-week PK in the ALZ-801 phase 1b study in APOE4 carrier subjects with 
AD, as well as a phase 1 7-day PK study in heathy elderly volunteers. Following 
oral dosing, ALZ-801 was rapidly converted to the active moieties, tramiprosate 
and 3-SPA. The intersubject variability in plasma drug levels was low, 
confirming the superior performance of ALZ-801 versus oral tramiprosate tablet 
(150 mg BID) from the earlier tramiprosate phase 3 trials. Correlation analysis 
versus clinical characteristics showed that plasma exposures (Cmax and AUC8h) 
for ALZ-801, tramiprosate, and 3-SPA were not affected by sex, APOE genotype, 
age, BMI, concomitant AChEI use, or tablet lot. Plasma exposures of both 
tramiprosate and 3-SPA, but not ALZ-801, were inversely correlated with eGFR, in 
line with renal excretion as the primary route of elimination. ALZ-801 was well 
tolerated without new safety signals or events of amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities (ARIA).
CONCLUSIONS: The steady-state PK profile of oral ALZ-801 in subjects with early 
AD was not affected by sex, APOE genotype, age, BMI, concomitant use of AChEI, 
or tablet lot. The inverse relationship of plasma exposures of tramiprosate and 
3-SPA, but not ALZ-801, versus eGFR is consistent with renal clearance as the 
primary route of elimination for tramiprosate and 3-SPA (active moieties), and 
with the efficient conversion of ALZ-801 prodrug to the active moieties after 
dosing. These results demonstrate that ALZ-801 displays favorable PK properties 
without evidence of interactions with demographic characteristics and support 
its development as an oral disease-modifying treatment for AD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04693520 .

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40262-025-01482-8
PMCID: PMC11954699
PMID: 39907966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Funding: The clinical study and 
analyses in this report were supported by Alzheon, Inc. Conflict of interest: 
John A. Hey, Jeremy Y. Yu, Susan Abushakra, Jean F. Schaefer, Aidan Power, 
Patrick Kesslak, Jijo Paul and Martin Tolar are employees of Alzheon, Inc. All 
authors own Alzheon stocks and/or stock options. Ethics approval: The protocol 
was approved by the assigned Ethics Committees (EC) in the Netherlands and in 
Czech Republic and by the institutional EC in the Czech Republic. These include 
the Medical-Ethical Review Committee (METC), 12 October 2020; Ethics Committee 
of the Fakultní nemocnice Brno, 14 October 2020; Ethics Committee of the 
Fakultní nemocnice v Motole, 09 September 2020; Ethics Committee of the Fakultní 
nemocnice u sv Anny v Brne, 09 September 2020; and Etická Komise Vestra Clinics, 
17 September 2020. Consent to participate: All subjects and their partners, 
caregivers or legal representatives signed informed consent before participation 
in the study. Consent for publication: All subjects and their partners, 
caregivers or legal representatives provided consent that the data are 
publishable before participation in the study. Availability of data and 
material: The data and material contained in this publication are proprietary to 
Alzheon Inc. Code availability: Not applicable. Author contributions: JAH wrote 
the article in collaboration with JYY and JFS; SA, JAH, AP, PK, JP and MT were 
involved in the design and conduct of the ALZ-801-201 ADBM study. All authors 
have read and approved the final submitted manuscript and agree to be 
accountable for the work.


32. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jun;62(6):7506-7524. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04724-9.
Epub  2025 Feb 5.

Silica Nanoparticles Induce SH-SY5Y Cells Death Via PARP and Caspase Signaling 
Pathways.

Ma K(#)(1), Tian T(#)(1), Li X(1), Pang H(1), Ning X(1), Li M(1), Li J(1), Luo 
Z(1), Liu T(1), Liu M(1), Wang M(1), Zhao C(1), Song X(2), Du H(3), Jin M(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Public, Health Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin, 130021, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)School of Public, Health Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin, 130021, People's 
Republic of China. songxiuling@jlu.edu.cn.
(3)School of Public, Health Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin, 130021, People's 
Republic of China. hydu@jlu.edu.cn.
(4)School of Public, Health Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin, 130021, People's 
Republic of China. jinmh@jlu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

A growing stream of research indicates that exposure to Silica nanoparticles 
(SiNPs) can cause nervous system damage, leading to the occurrence of 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. However, the specific 
mechanism by which SiNPs cause neuroblast injury remains unclear and requires 
further research. This study established an in vitro experimental model of 
SH-SY5Y cells exposed to SiNPs and observed cell growth through an inverted 
fluorescence microscope. Cell viability was measured using an MTT assay. The 
intracellular ROS and Ca2+ levels were detected by flow cytometry. Cell 
apoptosis was observed using both Hoechst33342 staining and TUNEL staining. The 
activities of SOD and ATPase and the content of ATP in the cells were tested by 
biochemical methods. The genes including parp-1, aif, par, ucp2, vdac and prdx3 
were explored using quantitative real-time PCR. The expressions of PARP, AIF, 
PAR, Caspase-3, Caspase-9 and Cyt C proteins were evaluated by Western Blot. The 
immunofluorescence technique was used to observe the distribution of 
Parthanatos-related proteins induced by SiNPs. The results showed that SiNPs 
reduced cell survival rate, induced excessive ROS and Ca2+ overload, decreased 
SOD activity, ATPase activity, intracellular and mitochondrial ATP content, 
increased the expression of mitochondrial function and PARP pathway related 
genes, as well as PARP and Caspase pathway protein expression, ultimately 
inducing cell apoptosis. As a further test of the roles of PARP and Caspase 
pathways in SiNPs induced SH-SY5Y cells death, we selected the PARP inhibitor 
Olaparib and Caspase inhibitor Z-VAD, and the above effects were significantly 
improved after treatment with the inhibitors. Conclusively, this study confirmed 
that SiNPs can generate excessive ROS production in SH-SY5Y cells, alter 
mitochondrial function, and induce cell death through Parthanatos and caspase 
dependent apoptotic pathways, which can coexist and interact with each other.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04724-9
PMID: 39907903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: Not applicable. 
Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. 
Competing Interest: The authors declare no competing interests. 


33. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jun;62(6):7525-7541. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04729-4.
Epub  2025 Feb 5.

Long Non-Coding RNAs: Crucial Regulators in Alzheimer's Disease Pathogenesis and 
Prospects for Precision Medicine.

Yang C(1)(2), Li Y(3), Chen C(4), Sun Z(3), Liu E(1), Wei N(1), Liu X(1)(2), Shu 
J(1)(2), Zhao N(1)(2), Sun M(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, People's Republic of China.
(2)Henan Key Laboratory of Tumor Pathology, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, 
People's Republic of China.
(3)Henan Institute of Medical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhengzhou University, 
Zhengzhou, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, People's Republic of China.
(5)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, People's Republic of China. sunmiaomiaohd@163.com.
(6)Henan Key Laboratory of Tumor Pathology, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, 
People's Republic of China. sunmiaomiaohd@163.com.

Long non-coding RNAs (LncRNAs) have emerged as pivotal regulators in the 
pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a progressive neurodegenerative 
disorder characterized by cognitive decline and memory loss. With the capacity 
to modulate gene expression at various levels, LncRNAs are implicated in 
multiple pathological mechanisms of AD, including amyloid-beta (Aβ) 
accumulation, tau protein phosphorylation, neuroinflammation, and neuronal 
apoptosis. Recent studies have highlighted the potential of LncRNAs as 
diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets due to their differential 
expression patterns in AD patients. This review synthesizes current knowledge on 
the role of LncRNAs in AD, focusing on their involvement in key molecular 
pathways and their promise as indicators for early diagnosis and prognosis. We 
discuss the regulatory networks of LncRNAs in the context of AD, their 
interaction with miRNAs, and the implications for developing novel therapeutic 
strategies. Despite the complexity and variability in LncRNA function, the 
prospect of harnessing these molecules for precision medicine in AD is gaining 
momentum. The translational potential of LncRNA-based interventions offers a new 
frontier in the quest for effective treatments and a deeper understanding of the 
molecular underpinnings of AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04729-4
PMID: 39907902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


34. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Feb 19;16(4):699-710. doi:
10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00734.  Epub 2025 Feb 5.

Therapeutic Potential of Arimoclomol Nanomicelles: In Vitro Impact on 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Pathology and Correlation with In Vivo Inflammatory 
Response.

Xavier-de-Britto I(1), Gomes-da-Silva NC(1), Gomes Soares MA(1), Follmer C(2), 
Dabkiewicz D(2), Alencar LMR(3), Sant'Anna C(4), Ferreira TPT(5), Martins 
PMRES(5), Ricci-Junior E(6), Fechine PBA(7), Santos-Oliveira R(1)(8).

Author information:
(1)Brazilian Nuclear Energy Commission, Nuclear Engineering Institute, 
Laboratory of Nanoradiopharmacy and Synthesis of New Radiopharmaceuticals, Rio 
de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro 21941906, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Biological Chemistry of Neurodegenerative Disorders, Department 
of Physical Chemistry, Institute of Chemistry, Federal University of Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro 21941-909, Brazil.
(3)Biophysics and Nanosystems Laboratory, Federal University of Maranhão, 
Department of Physics, São Luis, Maranhão 65065690, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Microscopy Applied to Life Science-Lamav, National Institute of 
Metrology, Quality and Technology, Duque de Caxias, Rio de Janeiro 25250-020, 
Brazil.
(5)Laboratory of Inflammation, Oswaldo Cruz Institute, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, 
Rio de Janeiro 21040-360, Brazil.
(6)Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, School of Pharmacy, Rio de Janeiro, Rio 
de Janeiro 21941900, Brazil.
(7)Group of Chemistry of Advanced Materials (GQMat)-Department of Analytical 
Chemistry and Physical-Chemistry, Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza, Ceará 
451-970, Brazil.
(8)Rio de Janeiro State University, Laboratory of Radiopharmacy and 
Nanoradiopharmaceuticals, Rio de Janeiro 23070200, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

This study investigates the potential of arimoclomol-loaded nanomicelles for the 
treatment of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, as 
well as their anti-inflammatory properties. Arimoclomol, a coinducer of heat 
shock proteins (HSPs), has shown clinical promise in mitigating protein 
misfolding, a hallmark of these diseases. In this work, arimoclomol nanomicelles 
significantly reduced the aggregation of β-amyloid (Aβ1-42) and α-synuclein 
(α-syn), key pathological proteins in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. Additionally, 
the nanomicelles demonstrated potent anti-inflammatory effects, reducing 
leukocyte and neutrophil counts in an acute inflammation model. These results 
suggest that arimoclomol nanomicelles could enhance clinical outcomes by 
targeting both neurodegenerative and inflammatory processes, offering a 
promising therapeutic strategy for long-term disease management.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00734
PMCID: PMC11843614
PMID: 39907698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


35. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2025 May;73(5):1406-1418. doi: 10.1111/jgs.19382. Epub 2025
 Feb 5.

"By the Time We Knew …": Poetic Analysis of End-of-Life Caregiving Experiences 
for Rapidly Progressive and Slower-Duration Dementia Syndromes.

Harrison KL(1)(2)(3), Morgan BE(4), Friend J(1)(2)(5), Garrett SB(2)(6), Looi 
D(7), Halim M(8), James JE(9), Boyd ND(10), Gilissen J(11), Geschwind MD(12), 
Ritchie CS(13), Smith AK(1)(14).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, School of Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Philip R. Lee Institute for Health Policy Studies, University of California, 
San Francisco, California, USA.
(3)The Global Brain Health Institute, University of California, San Francisco, 
California, USA.
(4)Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Care, Grossman School of Medicine, New 
York University, New York City, New York, USA.
(5)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University of California, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(6)Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of California, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Sutter Roseville Medical Center, Roseville, 
California, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, California, 
USA.
(9)Institute for Health and Aging, School of Nursing, University of California, 
San Francisco, California, USA.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington, USA.
(11)Research Center Care in Connection, Department of Nursing and Midwifery, 
Karel de Grote University of Applied Sciences and Arts, Antwerp, Belgium.
(12)Weill Institute for Neurosciences, Department of Neurology, Memory and Aging 
Center, University of California, San Francisco, California, USA.
(13)Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, and Harvard Medical 
School, The Mongan Institute Center for Aging and Serious Illness and the 
Division of Palliative Care and Geriatric Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(14)San Francisco VA Medical Center, San Francisco, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: One in three older adults in the United States dies with or from 
dementia. Little is known about whether end-of-life caregiving experiences 
differ by dementia diagnosis.
METHODS: We conducted a secondary analysis of two qualitative studies. 
Participants included caregivers of decedents with "rapid-type" sporadic 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (sCJD, survival prognosis of < 1 year) or "slow-type" 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (survival prognosis of 5-20 years). We 
used reflexive thematic analysis and a novel method, poetic analysis, to compare 
end-of-life caregiving experiences.
RESULTS: "Rapid-type" caregivers (n = 12) had a median age of 59 (range 45-73) 
years; 6 were female, and 9 were spouses. "Slow-type" caregivers (n = 15) had a 
median age of 69 (45-82) years; 9 were female, and 11 were spouses. We 
identified three main areas of differential experience that were influenced by 
syndrome rarity and participation in research yet hinged on time. Time enables 
preparation: Due to the rarity of sCJD, "rapid-type" caregivers struggled to 
obtain accurate diagnoses, which prevented preparation for end-of-life care. 
Weeks or months before death, specialists simultaneously disclosed sCJD 
diagnoses and recommended hospice. In contrast, for "slow-type" dementia, 
preparation began years before death. Time complicates conflict: Most 
"rapid-type" caregivers described conflicts, rarely resolved before death, about 
code status, treatment, or care location decisions. Fewer "slow-type" caregivers 
experienced such conflicts, and these were typically resolved before death; 
instead, they experienced conflict between needs and what the care system 
provides. Postmortem experience contrasts with perimortem: For "rapid-type" 
dementia, short perimortem periods contrasted with elongated and often intense 
postmortem logistics and grief. For "slow-type" caregivers, preparation and 
perimortem grieving typically led to shorter duration and minimally intrusive 
postmortem logistics and grief.
CONCLUSIONS: End-of-life care for dementia should attend to and support axes of 
differential experience based on diagnosis and rarity, time since symptom onset 
(affecting preparation and conflict resolution), and participation in research 
studies.

© 2025 The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.19382
PMCID: PMC12101954
PMID: 39907502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Geschwind has no conflicts directly related to 
this paper; he has received or currently receives research support on prion 
disease from the NIH/NIA, Alliance Biosecure and the Michael J. Homer Family 
Fund. He has consulted for Adept Field Consulting (Backbay consulting), Anderson 
Boutwell Traylor, Blade Therapeutics, Bioscience Pharma Partners, LLC (BPP), 
Clarion Consulting, ClearView HealthCare Partners, First Thought Consulting, 
Grand Rounds Inc./In Thought Inc., Inc., InThought Consulting, LifeSci Capital 
LLC, Maupin Cox Legoy, MedConnect Pro LLC, 3DCommunications (Microvention 
Terumo), and Teledoc Health Inc. He has received speaking honoraria for various 
medical center lectures and from Oakstone Publishing. He has received past 
research support from CurePSP, the Tau Consortium, Quest Diagnostics, and NIH. 
Dr. Geschwind serves on the board of directors for San Francisco Bay Area 
Physicians for Social Responsibility and on the editorial board of Dementia and 
Neuropsychologia. No other authors have disclosures to report.


36. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14508. doi: 10.1002/alz.14508. Epub 2025
Feb  5.

The Alzheimer's Association Global Biomarker Standardization Consortium (GBSC) 
plasma phospho-tau Round Robin study.

Ashton NJ(1)(2)(3)(4), Keshavan A(5), Brum WS(1)(6), Andreasson U(1), Arslan 
B(1), Droescher M(7), Barghorn S(7), Vanbrabant J(8), Lambrechts C(8), Van Loo 
M(8), Stoops E(8), Iyengar S(9), Ji H(9), Xu X(9), Forrest-Hay A(9), Zhang B(9), 
Luo Y(9), Jeromin A(10), Vandijck M(11), Bastard NL(11), Kolb H(12), 
Triana-Baltzer G(13), Bali D(14), Janelidze S(14), Yang SY(15), Demos C(16), 
Romero D(16), Sigal G(16), Wohlstadter J(16), Malyavantham K(17), Khare M(17), 
Jethwa A(18), Stoeckl L(18), Gobom J(1)(19), Kac PR(1), Gonzalez-Ortiz F(1), 
Montoliu-Gaya L(1), Hansson O(14)(20), Rissman RA(21), Carrillo MC(22), Shaw 
LM(23), Blennow K(1)(20)(24)(25), Schott JM(5)(26), Zetterberg 
H(1)(20)(26)(27)(28)(29).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(2)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, 
Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute, London, UK.
(3)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health and Biomedical Research 
Unit for Dementia at South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(4)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, 
Norway.
(5)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK.
(6)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Biochemistry, Universidade Federal 
do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(7)Neuroscience Research, AbbVie Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG, Ludwigshafen, 
Germany.
(8)ADx NeuroSciences N.V., Ghent, Belgium.
(9)Alamar Biosciences, Inc., Fremont, California, USA.
(10)ALZpath Inc., Carlsbad, California, USA.
(11)Fujirebio Europe N.V., Ghent, Belgium.
(12)Enigma Biomedical Group, San Diego, California, USA.
(13)Neuroscience Biomarkers, Janssen Research and Development, San Diego, 
California, USA.
(14)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(15)MagQu Co., Ltd., New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(16)Meso Scale Diagnostics, LLC., Rockville, Maryland, USA.
(17)Quanterix Corp, Billerica, Massachusetts, USA.
(18)Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Penzberg, Germany.
(19)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(20)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(21)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine of the 
University of Southern California, San Diego, California, USA.
(22)Division of Medical & Scientific Relations, Alzheimer's Association, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(23)Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(24)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(25)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, P.R. China.
(26)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, UK.
(27)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, Queen Square, London, UK.
(28)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Science Park, Hong Kong, 
China.
(29)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Aug 22:2024.08.22.24312244. doi: 10.1101/2024.08.22.24312244.

INTRODUCTION: The Alzheimer's Association Global Biomarker Standardization 
Consortium conducted a blinded case-control study to learn which phosphorylated 
tau (p-tau) assays provide the largest fold-changes in Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
versus non-AD and show commutability in measuring patient samples and candidate 
certified reference materials (CRMs).
METHODS: Thirty-three different p-tau assays measured paired plasma and 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 40 participants (25 with "AD pathology" and 15 
with "non-AD pathology" by CSF amyloid beta [Aβ]42/Aβ40 and p-tau181 criteria). 
Four CRMs were assessed.
RESULTS: Plasma p-tau217 demonstrated higher fold-changes between AD and non-AD 
than other p-tau epitopes. Fujirebio LUMIPULSE G, UGOT IPMS, and Lilly MSD 
p-tau217 provided the highest fold-changes. Plasma p-tau217 showed the strongest 
correlations between plasma assays (rho = 0.81-0.97). The CRMs were not 
commutable across assays.
DISCUSSION: Plasma p-tau217 showed larger fold-changes and better accuracy for 
detecting AD pathology in symptomatic individuals, with greater cross-platform 
agreement than other p-tau variants. Further work is needed to develop suitable 
CRMs facilitating cross-assay standardization.
HIGHLIGHTS: Paired plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from twenty-five 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 15 non-AD patients were measured blind. 
Thirty-three plasma assays were compared, for phosphorylated tau-181 (p-tau181), 
205, 212, 217 and 231. Plasma p-tau217 consistently had the highest fold-change 
and was best correlated between assays. Plasma-CSF correlations were weak to 
moderate. There was lack of commutability for four candidate reference 
materials.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14508
PMCID: PMC11851162
PMID: 39907496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All biomarker measurements were performed by the 
assay developers in‐house without cost. ALZpath p‐tau217 was performed at the 
University of Gothenburg (UGOT) and Lilly immunoassays were performed at the 
University of Lund. C2N Diagnostics declined to participate in the study. N.J.A. 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Eli‐Lilly, Roche Diagnostics, Alamar 
Biosciences, Biogen, VJDementia and Quanterix; consulted for Quanterix, TauRx, 
Neurogen Biomarking; served on advisory boards for Biogen, TauRx, and TargetALS; 
and has a pending patent application (PCT/US2024/037834 (WSGR Docket No. 
58484‐709.601): Methods for Remote Blood Collection, Extraction and Analysis of 
Neuro Biomarkers). A.K., W.S.B., U.A., and B.A. have no conflicts of interest. 
M.D. is an employee of AbbVie and holds stock or stock options. S.B. is an 
employee of AbbVie and holds stock or stock options. J.V. is an employee of ADx 
NeuroSciences. C.L. is an employee of ADx NeuroSciences. M.V.L. is an employee 
of ADx NeuroSciences. E.S. is an employee of ADx NeuroSciences. S.I. is an 
employee of Alamar Biosciences. H.Y.J. is an employee of Alamar Biosciences. 
X.X. is an employee of Alamar Biosciences. A.F‐H. is an employee of Alamar 
Biosciences. B.Z. is an employee of, and has stock or stock options in, Alamar 
Biosciences. Y.L. is an employee of Alamar Biosciences. A.J. is former employee 
of ALZpath, Inc., and has stock in ALZpath, Inc., and Quanterix, Inc. M.V. is an 
employee of Fujirebio Europe N.V. N.L.B. is an employee of Fujirebio Europe N.V. 
H.K. is a former employee of Johnson and Johnson, and a current employee of the 
Enigma Biomedical Group; has undertaken paid consultancy for AviadoBio and 
Alector; has received an honorarium from Fortrea; and has a pending patient 
application for the Janssen CSF ptau217+ assay. D.B. has no conflicts of 
interest. G.T‐B. is an employee of Janssen R&D and has stock options; there is a 
pending patent application for the Janssen Simoa plasma p‐tau217+ assay. D.B. 
and S.J. have no conflicts of interest. S‐Y.Y. is an employee of MagQu Co., Ltd. 
C.D. is an employee of Meso Scale Diagnostics, LLC. D.R. is an employee of Meso 
Scale Diagnostics, LLC. G.S. is an employee of Meso Scale Diagnostics, LLC. J.W. 
is an employee of Meso Scale Diagnostics, LLC. K.M. is an employee of Quanterix. 
M.K. is an employee of Quanterix. A.J. is a full‐time employee of, and has stock 
or stock options in, Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Penzberg, Germany. L.S. is a 
full‐time employee of, and has stock or stock options in, Roche Diagnostics 
GmbH, Penzberg, Germany. J.G., P.R.K., F.G.‐O., and L.M.‐G. have no conflicts of 
interest. O.H. has acquired research support (for the institution) from C2N 
Diagnostics. In the past 2 years, he has received consultancy/speaker fees from 
AC Immune, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol Meyer Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, 
Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi, and Siemens. R.A.R. has received 
consulting fees from Amydis Inc., Bioivt, Lexeo, Keystone Bio, Allyx, DiamiR, 
and PrecisionMed; and support for travel from Biogen. M.C.C. has no conflicts of 
interest. L.M.S. has served as a consultant or on advisory boards for Biogen, 
Roche Diagnostics, and Fujirebio; and receives in‐kind support from Fujirebio 
and Roche Diagnostics automated immunoassay platforms and reagents. K.B. has 
served as a consultant, on advisory boards, or on data monitoring committees for 
Abcam, Axon, BioArctic, Biogen, JOMDD/Shimadzu, Julius Clinical, Lilly, MagQu, 
Novartis, Ono Pharma, Pharmatrophix, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens 
Healthineers; and is a cofounder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB 
(BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work 
presented in this paper. J.M.S. has received research funding from Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals (a wholly owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly); consulted for 
Roche Pharmaceuticals, Biogen, Merck, and Eli Lilly; given educational lectures 
sponsored by GE Healthcare, Eli Lilly, and Biogen; and is Chief Medical Officer 
for ARUK. H.Z. has served on scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant 
for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry 
Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, 
Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, and Roche; and is a co‐founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work). COBAS and ELECSYS are trademarks of 
Roche. All other trademarks are the8 property of their respective owners. The 
Elecsys Phospho‐Tau (181P) CSF immunoassay is approved for clinical use. The 
Elecsys p‐Tau181 and p‐Tau217 prototype plasma immunoassays are not currently 
approved for clinical use or commercially available. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information.


37. Acta Med Acad. 2024 Dec;53(3):303-308. doi: 10.5644/ama2006-124.463.

Translational Research on Polygenic Risk Scores in Common Neurodegenerative 
Diseases - A Scoping Review Protocol.

Čižek Sajko M(1), Suklan J(2), Osmanović D(3), Peterlin B(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Institute for Genomic Medicine, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, 
Slovenia. mojca.cizek.sajko@kclj.si.
(2)National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) HealthTech Research 
Centre (HRC) in Diagnostic and Technology Evaluation, Newcastle, United Kingdom; 
Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Newcastle University, United Kingdom.
(3)Faculty of Science and Mathematics, University of Tuzla, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina.
(4)Clinical Institute for Genomic Medicine, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, 
Slovenia.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this protocol is to clearly describe the process for 
the scoping review we plan to conduct on the topic of polygenic risk scores 
(PRS) in common neurodegenerative diseases. We will present the review's 
objective, the strategy for evidence search, the data extraction and analysis 
procedure, and how the results will be presented.
METHODS: The inclusion criteria for the planned scoping review will focus on 
evidence sources that involve PRS applied to neurogenerative diseases such as 
Multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and Amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis in any phase of translational research, from early development 
to clinical implementation. This includes its use in risk prediction, early 
diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment decision-making. The research questions were 
created based on the population, context, and concept framework. We will 
consider both peer-reviewed papers and grey literature published in English or 
German for inclusion. Two independent reviewers will search for information.
CONCLUISON: The findings from the scoping review will be presented descriptively 
and summarized according to the research questions to illustrate the current 
status of translational research on PRS in common neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2024 Čižek Sajko et al. This article is available under a Creative 
Commons License.

DOI: 10.5644/ama2006-124.463
PMCID: PMC11831539
PMID: 39907297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


38. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14526. doi: 10.1002/alz.14526. Epub 2025
Feb  5.

Differential roles of Alzheimer's disease plasma biomarkers in stepwise 
biomarker-guided diagnostics.

Jang H(1), Shin D(2), Yoo H(2), Zetterberg H(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8), Blennow 
K(3)(4)(9)(10), Gonzalez-Ortiz F(3)(4), Ashton NJ(3)(11)(12)(13), Day TA(14), 
Lee EH(2), Yun J(15), Na DL(2), Kim HJ(2)(16)(17)(18), Kang SH(19), Kim KW(20), 
Kim SE(21), Kim YJ(22), Kim Y(23), Kim J(24), Kim CH(25), Chun MY(26)(27), Jung 
NY(28), Cho SH(29), Kim JP(2), Seo SW(2)(16)(17)(18); K‐ROAD study groups.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Göteborg, 
Sweden.
(4)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Göteborg, Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(7)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
P.R. China.
(8)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(9)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(10)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, P.R. China.
(11)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, 
Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute, De Crespigny Park, London, UK.
(12)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health and Biomedical Research 
Unit for Dementia at South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation, De Crespigny 
Park, London, UK.
(13)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, 
Norway.
(14)Lilly Corporate Center, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(15)Department of Neurology, Soonchunhyang University Bucheon Hospital, 
Bucheon-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(16)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(17)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(18)Neuroscience Center, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(19)Department of Neurology, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(20)Department of Neurology, Jeonbuk National University Medical School and 
Hospital, Jeonju-si, Republic of Korea.
(21)Department of Neurology, Inje University College of Medicine, Haeundae Paik 
Hospital, Busan, Republic of Korea.
(22)Department of Neurology, Kangdong Sacred Heart Hospital, Hallym University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(23)Department of Neurology, Kangwon National University Hospital, Kangwon 
National University School of Medicine, Chuncheon-si, Gangwon-do, Republic of 
Korea.
(24)Department of Neurology, Dongtan Sacred Heart Hospital, Hallym University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(25)Department of Neurology, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, Hallym 
University College of Medicine, Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(26)Department of Neurology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(27)Department of Neurology, Yongin Severance Hospital, Yonsei University Health 
System, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(28)Department of Neurology, Pusan National University Yangsan Hospital, 
Research Institute for Convergence of Biomedical Science and Technology, 
Yangsan-si, Gyeongsangnam-do, Republic of Korea.
(29)Department of Neurology, Chonnam National University Hospital, Chonnam 
National University Medical School, Gwangju, Republic of Korea.

INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to investigate the differential roles of various 
plasma biomarkers in a stepwise diagnostic strategy for Alzheimer's disease 
(AD).
METHODS: A total of 2984 participants, including 666 cognitively unimpaired 
(CU), 2032 with Alzheimer's clinical syndrome (ACS), and 286 non-ACS 
individuals, were recruited. Plasma amyloid beta (Aβ) 42/40, four phosphorylated 
tau (p-tau) epitopes, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and neurofilament 
light chain (NfL) levels were measured using immunoassays.
RESULTS: NfL demonstrated fair to excellent accuracy in differentiating non-ACS 
from CU groups (area under the curve [AUC], 0.79 to 0.94). p-tau217 had the 
highest accuracy for identifying Aβ (AUC 0.94) and tau positron emission 
tomography status (AUC 0.91). In the ACS group, p-tau217 was the strongest 
predictor of cognitive decline (p < .001).
DISCUSSION: NfL may serve as a useful screening tool, while p-tau217 is 
particularly valuable for confirming AD pathology and prognosis.
HIGHLIGHTS: Plasma NfL could screen for cognitive impairment. p-tau217 reliably 
detects AD pathology, regardless of diagnosis. p-tau217 and GFAP predict 
prognosis in ACS. Each plasma biomarker plays a distinct role in stepwise AD 
diagnostics.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14526
PMCID: PMC11848384
PMID: 39907189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has delivered lectures at symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
K.B. has served as a consultant and on advisory boards for AbbVie, AC Immune, 
ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd., Novartis, 
Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served on 
data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has delivered 
lectures, produced educational materials, and participated in educational 
programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; 
and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which 
is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in 
this paper. The other authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose. Author 
disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


39. IBRO Neurosci Rep. 2025 Jan 9;18:191-199. doi: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.01.004. 
eCollection 2025 Jun.

Lipidopathy disrupts peripheral and central amyloid clearance in Alzheimer's 
disease: Where are our knowledge.

Darabi S(1), Gorgich EAC(2), Moradi F(3), Rustamzadeh A(1).

Author information:
(1)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Research Institute for Prevention of 
Non-communicable Diseases, Department of Anatomical Sciences, School of 
Medicine, Qazvin University of Medical Sciences, Qazvin, Iran.
(2)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Iranshahr University of Medical 
Sciences, Iranshahr, Iran.
(3)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Amyloid-beta (Aβ) production is a normal physiological process, essential for 
neuronal function. However, an imbalance in Aβ production and clearance is the 
central pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD), leading to the 
accumulation of Aβ plaques in the brain. Low-density lipoprotein 
receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) plays a critical role in both the central 
clearance of Aβ from the brain and its peripheral transport to visceral organs. 
Disruptions in these processes contribute to the accumulation of Aβ in the 
central nervous system (CNS) and the progression of AD. Recent research 
emphasizes the need for a broader focus on the systemic effects of organs 
outside the brain, particularly in the context of AD prevention and treatment. 
The contribution of peripheral systems, such as the liver, in Aβ clearance, is 
vital, given that Aβ levels in the plasma correlate closely with those in the 
brain. Consequently, targeting systemic processes, rather than focusing solely 
on the CNS, may offer promising therapeutic approaches. Furthermore, 
high-density lipoprotein (HDL) facilitates the formation of lipoprotein-amyloid 
complexes, which are important for Aβ transport and clearance, using proteins 
such as apolipoproteins E and J (ApoE and ApoJ) to form complexes that help 
manage Aβ accumulation. On the other hand, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) 
facilitates Aβ efflux from the brain by binding to LRP1, promoting its 
clearance. Given the relationship between lipid profiles and Aβ levels, along 
with lipid-modifying drugs, may be effective in managing Aβ accumulation and 
mitigating AD progression.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.01.004
PMCID: PMC11791331
PMID: 39906286

Conflict of interest statement: The Authors declare no competing financial or 
non-financial interests directly or indirectly related to the work submitted for 
publication.


40. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Feb 4;17(1):37. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01677-y.

A systematic review and meta-analysis of the impact of transcranial direct 
current stimulation on cognitive function in older adults with cognitive 
impairments: the influence of dosage parameters.

Prathum T(1), Chantanachai T(1), Vimolratana O(2), Laksanaphuk C(3), 
Apiworajirawit I(1), Aneksan B(1), Latthirun K(4), Yang CT(4)(5), Klomjai W(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Physical Therapy, Neuro Electrical Stimulation Laboratory (NeuE), 
Mahidol University, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Road, Salaya, Nakhon Pathom, 73170, 
Thailand.
(2)School of Integrative Medicine, Mae Fah Luang University, Chiang Rai, 
Thailand.
(3)Faculty of Physical Therapy and Sports Medicine, Rangsit University, Pathum 
Thani, Thailand.
(4)Department of Psychology, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Education and Humanities, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Faculty of Physical Therapy, Neuro Electrical Stimulation Laboratory (NeuE), 
Mahidol University, 999 Phuttamonthon 4 Road, Salaya, Nakhon Pathom, 73170, 
Thailand. wanalee.klo@mahidol.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Numerous studies have demonstrated the effects of transcranial 
direct current stimulation (tDCS) on cognitive function in the older people. 
This study further explores the impact of tDCS and its dosage parameters on 
cognitive enhancement in older people with cognitive impairments.
METHODS: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) published through November 2023 
were retrieved from databases including PubMed, Scopus, EMBASE, EBSCO, and the 
Cochrane Library. Participants were older adults with cognitive impairments, 
including Alzheimer's disease (AD), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 
dementia. AD was diagnosed based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of 
Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV), or the National Institute of 
Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke - Alzheimer' Disease and 
Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria. Dementia was diagnosed 
using the DSM-V or NINCDS-ADRDA criteria, while MCI was diagnosed using the 
DSM-V, the Petersen criteria, or assessments such as Montreal Cognitive 
Assessment (MoCA) and Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR). Standardized mean 
difference (SMD) values were analyzed to assess the effects.
RESULTS: A total of 19 RCTs were included. tDCS significantly improved the 
Mini-Mental State Examination score both immediately post-intervention 
(SMD = 0.51, p = 0.005) and at follow-up (SMD = 2.29, p = 0.0003). Significant 
effects were observed when tDCS was used alone (SMD = 0.39, p = 0.04), at 
current densities  ≤  0.06 mA/cm2 (SMD = 0.25, p = 0.04), session durations 
exceeding 20 min (SMD = 0.89, p = 0.01), up to 15 sessions (SMD = 0.28, 
p = 0.009), and when an active electrode was placed over the temporal area 
(SMD = 0.33, p = 0.02). People with AD showed greater improvements compared to 
those with MCI or dementia (SMD = 0.91, p = 0.02). However, tDCS did not 
significantly improve memory or executive function.
CONCLUSION: tDCS demonstrated efficacy in enhancing global cognition in older 
people with cognitive impairments, providing insight into optimal parameters for 
clinical application. However, no improvement were observed in memory or 
executive function.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01677-y
PMCID: PMC11796231
PMID: 39905569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Ethical approval was noted for all published papers included in the 
review. No further ethics approval was sought for this review of existing 
literature. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


41. Biol Sex Differ. 2025 Feb 4;16(1):9. doi: 10.1186/s13293-025-00686-8.

Sex differences in the neuroinflammatory signaling pathway: effect of miRNAs on 
fatty acid synthesis in microglia.

Zheng H(#)(1), Mizokami A(#)(2), Romera-Giner S(3), Llera-Oyola J(3), Yamawaki 
Y(4), Sano T(1), Jimi E(5)(6), García-García F(3), Kanematsu T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Aging Science, and Pharmacology, Division of Oral 
Biological Sciences, Faculty of Dental Science, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 
Maidashi, Higashi-Ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan.
(2)OBT Research Center, Faculty of Dental Science, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 
Maidashi, Higashi-Ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan. akiko-k@dent.kyushu-u.ac.jp.
(3)Computational Biomedicine Laboratory, Prince Felipe Research Center (CIPF), 
46012, Valencia, Spain.
(4)Department of Advanced Pharmacology, Daiichi University of Pharmacy, 22-1 
Tamagawa-Cho, Minami-Ku, Fukuoka, 815-8511, Japan.
(5)OBT Research Center, Faculty of Dental Science, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 
Maidashi, Higashi-Ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan.
(6)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry, Division of Oral 
Biological Sciences, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-Ku, Fukuoka, 
812-8582, Japan.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Significant sex differences exist in the prevalence and incidence of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Notably, testosterone has been reported to regulate 
cognitive functions in the brain, with low serum testosterone levels correlating 
with increased AD risk. However, the specific mechanisms underlying this 
relationship remain unclear. Recent studies have demonstrated that microglia, 
the primary innate immune cells in the brain, play a crucial role in AD 
development. Therefore, this study aimed to explore sex differences in 
microglial function, specifically focusing on the role of testosterone in 
miRNA-mediated regulation of microglial gene expression.
METHODS: Microglia were isolated from pooled hippocampal tissue of five 
8-month-old male and female mice. Total RNA was extracted and subjected to miRNA 
microarray analysis. The mouse microglial cell line MG6 was used for in vitro 
experiments. Following testosterone treatment, miRNA, gene, and protein 
expression levels were investigated. An inflammatory response was induced using 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation, and subsequent p65 phosphorylation was 
assessed.
RESULTS: Sex-dependent differences were observed in miRNA-mediated biological 
processes, with males exhibiting greater changes. Male-enriched miRNAs were 
associated with fatty acid synthesis and metabolism pathways. In MG6 cells, 
testosterone treatment upregulated the expression of several miRNAs enriched in 
male microglia, particularly those targeting genes related to fatty acid 
synthesis. Additionally, testosterone significantly reduced the gene expression 
of fatty acid synthase (FASN). This testosterone-induced inhibition of FASN 
expression attenuated NF-κB/p65 phosphorylation. Consequently, the suppression 
of FASN expression led to reduced expression and secretion of tumor necrosis 
factor-alpha following LPS stimulation in MG6 cells.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that testosterone modulates inflammation in 
male microglia by regulating fatty acid synthesis, potentially contributing to 
the observed sex differences in AD pathogenesis.

Plain Language Summary: Sex differences in Alzheimer’s disease (AD) are 
well-established, with females experiencing a higher prevalence and greater 
disease severity. Microglia, the primary innate immune cells of the brain, play 
a key role in AD development. Notably, sex-specific differences in microglial 
gene expression and function, including the regulatory roles of microRNAs 
(miRNAs), have been documented and may contribute to the differential 
pathogenesis of AD between sexes. This study investigated sex-specific 
differences in miRNA expression patterns. miRNA microarray analyses of 
hippocampal microglia from adult male and female mice revealed distinct miRNA 
expression patterns, with the potential target genes of male-enriched miRNAs 
being associated with pathways involved in fatty acid biosynthesis. Testosterone 
stimulation of the mouse microglial cell line MG6 resulted in the upregulation 
of several male-enriched miRNAs, leading to downregulated fatty acid synthase 
(FASN) expression. This testosterone-mediated suppression of FASN levels 
subsequently inhibited NF-κB/p65 phosphorylation. These findings highlight the 
regulatory role of testosterone in the NF-κB inflammatory signaling pathway 
through de novo fatty acid synthesis. Our study suggests that testosterone, 
through the upregulation of specific miRNA expression, plays a crucial role in 
suppressing inflammatory responses in male microglia, contributing to 
sex-specific characteristics under inflammatory conditions and potentially 
explaining the lower susceptibility to AD observed in males.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13293-025-00686-8
PMCID: PMC11792555
PMID: 39905477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal experiments were approved by the animal ethics committee 
of Kyushu University (approval nos. A19-316-1 and A21-136-0). Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


42. BMC Complement Med Ther. 2025 Feb 4;25(1):40. doi:
10.1186/s12906-025-04769-2.

Tangeretin offers neuroprotection against colchicine-induced memory impairment 
in Wistar rats by modulating the antioxidant milieu, inflammatory mediators and 
oxidative stress in the brain tissue.

Ogunro OB(1), Karigidi ME(2), Gyebi GA(3), Turkistani A(4), Almehmadi AH(5).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology, Drug Discovery and Toxicology Research Laboratory, Department 
of Biological Sciences, KolaDaisi University, Ibadan, 200213, Nigeria. 
olalekan.ogunro@koladaisiuniversity.edu.ng.
(2)Pharmacology, Drug Discovery and Toxicology Research Laboratory, Department 
of Biological Sciences, KolaDaisi University, Ibadan, 200213, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Biotechnology and Food Science, Faculty of Applied Sciences, 
Durban University of Technology, P.O. Box 1334, Durban, 4000, South Africa.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Medicine, Taif 
University, Taif, 21944, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
(5)Oral Biology Department, Faculty of Dentistry, King Abdulaziz University, 
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: Tangeretin, a flavone compound (O-polymethoxylated) naturally 
present in tangerine and other citrus peels has demonstrated effectiveness as an 
anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective agent in several disease model. This study 
evaluated the impact of tangeretin in mitigating cognitive dysfunction and 
oxidative stress induced by colchicine in rats, comparing its efficacy with 
donepezil hydrochloride.
METHODS: Cognitive dysfunction was induced by administering colchicine 
(15 µg/rat) intracerebroventricularly (ICV) via a stereotaxic apparatus in male 
Wistar rats. Colchicine resulted in poor memory retention in acquiring and 
retaining a spatial navigation task, passive avoidance apparatus, and Morris 
water maze paradigms. Chronic treatment with tangeretin (at doses of 50, 100, 
and 200 mg/kg, p.o. once daily) and donepezil hydrochloride (at a dose of 
10 mg/kg, p.o. daily) for 28 days, starting seven days before colchicine 
injection, significantly ameliorated colchicine-induced cognitive impairment.
RESULTS: The biochemical analysis showed that chronic administration of 
tangeretin effectively reversed the colchicine-induced increase in the 
level/activity of lipid peroxidation, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), myeloperoxidase 
(MPO), nitrite, reactive oxygen species (ROS), tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), 
nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), 
interleukin-10 (IL-10), serotonin, dopamine, glutamate, amyloid beta (Aβ) 
peptide, and caspase-3. Tangeretin also reversed the colchicine-induced 
reduction in the level/activity of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), 
amma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), acetylcholinesterase (AChE), glutathione 
S-Transferase (GST), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), 
catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), reduced glutathione (GSH), and total 
thiol (T-SH) in rat brains. However, donepezil hydrochloride did not prevent 
oxidative stress.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that chronic administration of tangeretin at 
50, 100, and 200 mg/kg, p.o. once daily, was protective in mitigating 
colchicine-induced cognitive impairment and associated oxidative stress. At the 
same time, donepezil hydrochloride did not demonstrate similar effects.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-025-04769-2
PMCID: PMC11792585
PMID: 39905390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The research procedure was approved by Ajayi Crowther University’s 
research ethics committee (FNS/ERC/2022/020B) and followed the National Academy 
of Science’s (NAS) recommendations for the moral use and appropriate handling of 
laboratory animals. Consent for publication: All authors attested to the 
publication of the manuscript. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Clinical trial number: Not applicable.


43. J Dent Res. 2025 Apr;104(4):439-448. doi: 10.1177/00220345241303141. Epub
2025  Feb 4.

Porphyromonas gingivalis Induces Disturbance of Kynurenine Metabolism Through 
the Gut-Brain Axis: Implications for Alzheimer's Disease.

Zhu H(1), Huang C(1), Luo Z(1), Wu L(2), Cheng X(1), Wu H(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, National Center for Stomatology, 
National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, Department of Geriatric 
Dentistry, West China Hospital of Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China.
(2)Department of Stomatology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

Porphyromonas gingivalis is one of the major pathogens of chronic periodontitis. 
P. gingivalis can cause systemic inflammation, amyloid β protein deposition, and 
hyperphosphorylation of tau protein, leading to Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like 
lesions. P. gingivalis oral infection causes gut microbiota alteration, gut 
barrier dysfunction, and intestinal immune response and inflammation. The 
microbiota-gut-brain axis has a potential role in the pathogenesis of AD. 
Whether P. gingivalis affects AD-like lesions via the gut-brain axis needs more 
study. In this study, orally administered P. gingivalis induced alveolar 
resorption, intestinal barrier impairment, and AD-like lesions. Oral infection 
with P. gingivalis induced oral and gut microflora dysbiosis, imbalance of the 
tryptophan metabolism pathway of gut microbiota, and elevated levels of 
3-hydroxykynurenine in the sera and hippocampi. The key metabolite, 
3-hydroxykynurenine, suppressed Bcl2 gene expression, leading to neuronal 
apoptosis and promoting AD-like lesions in vivo and in vitro. These findings 
suggest that P. gingivalis can induce AD pathogenesis through the gut-brain 
axis, providing new ideas for the prevention and treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.1177/00220345241303141
PMID: 39905278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


44. Sci Rep. 2025 Feb 4;15(1):4193. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-80755-x.

Integrative bioinformatic approach reveals novel melatonin-related biomarkers 
for Alzheimer's disease.

Zhang HX(1)(2), Hamit D(1)(2), Li Q(1)(2), Hu X(1)(2), Li SF(1)(2), Xu F(1)(2), 
Wang MY(1)(2), Bao GQ(1)(2), Li HY(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, People's Hospital of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous 
Region, Urumqi, 830000, China.
(2)Xinjiang Clinical Research Center for Stroke and Neurological Rare Disease, 
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region People's Hospital, No 91, Tianchi Road, Urumqi, 
830000, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, People's Hospital of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous 
Region, Urumqi, 830000, China. lhyxxy@vip.163.com.
(4)Xinjiang Clinical Research Center for Stroke and Neurological Rare Disease, 
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region People's Hospital, No 91, Tianchi Road, Urumqi, 
830000, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China. lhyxxy@vip.163.com.

BACKGROUND: Melatonin (MLT) can improve mitophagy, thereby ameliorating 
cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Hence, our research 
focused on the potential value of MLT-related genes (MRGs) in AD through 
bioinformatic analysis.
METHODS: First, the key cells in the single-cell dataset GSE138852 were screened 
out based on the proportion of annotated cells and Fisher's test between the AD 
and control groups. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the key cell 
and GSE5281 datasets were identified, and the MRGs in GSE5281 were selected via 
weighted gene coexpression network analysis. After intersecting two sets of DEGs 
and MRGs, we performed Mendelian randomization analysis to identify the MRGs 
causally related to AD. Biomarkers were further ascertained through receiver 
operating characteristic curve (ROC) and expression analysis in GSE5281 and 
GSE48350. Furthermore, gene set enrichment analysis, immune infiltration 
analysis and correlation analysis with metabolic pathways were conducted, as 
well as construction of a regulator network and molecular docking.
RESULTS: According to the Fisher test, oligodendrocytes were regarded as key 
cells due to their excellent abundance in the GSE138852 dataset, in which there 
were 281 DEGs between the AD and control groups. After overlapping with 3,490 
DEGs and 550 MRGs in GSE5281, four genes were found to be causally related to 
AD, namely, G protein-coupled receptor, family C, group 5, member B (GPRC5B), 
Methyltransferase-like protein 7 A (METTL7A), NF-κB inhibitor alpha (NFKBIA) and 
RAS association domain family 4(RASSF4). Moreover, GPRC5B, NFKBIA and RASSF4 
were deemed biomarkers, except for METTL7A, because of their indistinctive 
expression between the AD and control groups. Biomarkers might be involved in 
oxidative phosphorylation, adipogenesis and heme metabolism. Moreover, T helper 
type 17 cells, natural killer cells and CD56dim natural killer cells were 
significantly correlated with biomarkers. Transcription factors (GATA2, POU2F2, 
NFKB1, etc.) can regulate the expression of biomarkers. Finally, we discovered 
that all biomarkers could bind to MLT with a strong binding energy.
CONCLUSION: Our study identified three novel biomarkers related to MLT for AD, 
namely, GPRC5B, NFKBIA and RASSF4, providing a novel approach for the 
investigation and treatment of AD patients.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-80755-x
PMCID: PMC11794634
PMID: 39905093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


45. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2025 Feb 4;167(1):33. doi: 10.1007/s00701-025-06430-w.

Deep brain stimulation of the hypothalamic region: a systematic review.

Mofatteh M(1)(2), Mohamed A(3)(4), Mashayekhi MS(5)(6), Skandalakis GP(7)(8), 
Neudorfer C(9)(10)(11)(12), Arfaie S(13)(14)(15)(16), MohanaSundaram A(17), 
Sabahi M(18), Anand A(19), Aboulhosn R(20), Liao X(21), Horn A(22)(23)(24), 
Ashkan K(25)(26)(27)(28)(29).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences, Queen's University 
Belfast, 97 Lisburn Road, Belfast, BT9 7BL, UK. mmofatteh01@qub.ac.uk.
(2)Neuro International Collaboration (NIC), London, UK. mmofatteh01@qub.ac.uk.
(3)Medical Sciences Division, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(4)Neuro International Collaboration (NIC), Oxford, UK.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, Division of Neurosurgery, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, 
ON, Canada.
(6)Neuro International Collaboration (NIC), Vancouver, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Evangelismos General Hospital, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(8)Section of Neurosurgery, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH, 
USA.
(9)Brain Modulation Lab, Department of Neurosurgery, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(10)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Center for Brain Circuit Therapeutics Department of Neurology Brigham & 
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(12)Movement Disorder and Neuromodulation Unit, Department of Neurology, Charité 
-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, corporate member of, Freie Universität Berlin and 
Humboldt-Universität Zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(13)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.
(14)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences, 
Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Western Ontario, 
London, ON, Canada.
(15)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California Berkeley, 
Berkeley, CA, USA.
(16)Neuro International Collaboration (NIC), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(17)School of Pharmacy, Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, 
Tamilnadu, India.
(18)Department of Neurological Surgery, Pauline Braathen Neurological Center, 
Cleveland Clinic Florida, Weston, FL, USA.
(19)Koirala Institute of Health Sciences, B. P, Dharan, Nepal.
(20)School of Medicine, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(21)Department of Neurosurgery, First People's Hospital of Foshan, Foshan, 
Guangdong Province, China.
(22)Movement Disorder and Neuromodulation Unit, Department of Neurology, Charité 
- Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(23)Center for Brain Circuit Therapeutics, Department of Neurology, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(24)Departments of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(25)Neuro International Collaboration (NIC), London, UK.
(26)School of Biomedical Engineering and Imaging Sciences, Faculty of Life 
Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London, UK.
(27)King's Health Partners Academic Health Sciences Centre, London, UK.
(28)Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
(29)Department of Neurosurgery, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been successfully used for the 
treatment of circuitopathies including movement, anxiety, and behavioral 
disorders. The hypothalamus is a crucial integration center for many peripheral 
and central pathways relating to cardiovascular, metabolic, and behavioral 
functions and constitutes a potential target for neuromodulation in 
treatment-refractory conditions. To conduct a systematic review, investigating 
hypothalamic targets in DBS, their indications, and the primary clinical 
findings.
METHODS: PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science databases were searched in 
accordance with the PRISMA guideline to identify papers published in English 
studying DBS of the hypothalamus in humans.
RESULTS: After screening 3,148 papers, 34 studies consisting of 412 patients 
published over two decades were included in the final review. Hypothalamic DBS 
was indicated in refractory headaches (n = 238, 57.8%), aggressive behavior 
(n = 100, 24.3%), mild Alzheimer's disease (n = 58, 14.1%), trigeminal neuralgia 
in multiple sclerosis (n = 5, 1.2%), Prader-Willi syndrome (n = 4, 0.97%), and 
atypical facial pain (n = 3, 0.73%). The posterior hypothalamus was the most 
common DBS target site across 30 studies (88.2%). 262 (63.6%) participants were 
males, and 110 (26.7%) were females. 303 (73.5%) patients were adults whereas 33 
(8.0%) were pediatrics. The lowest mean age of participants was 15.25 ± 4.6 
years for chronic refractory aggressiveness, and the highest was 
68.5 ± 7.9 years in Alzheimer's disease patients. The mean duration of the 
disease ranged from 2.2 ± 1.7 (mild Alzheimer's disease) to 19.8 ± 10.1 years 
(refractory headaches). 213 (51.7%) patients across 29 studies (85.3%) reported 
symptom improvements which ranged from 23.1% to 100%. 25 (73.5%) studies 
reported complications, most of which were associated with higher voltage 
stimulations.
CONCLUSIONS: DBS of the hypothalamus is feasible in selected patients with 
various refractory conditions ranging from headaches to aggression in both 
pediatric and adult populations. Future large-scale studies with long-term 
follow-up are required to validate the safety and efficacy data and extend these 
findings.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00701-025-06430-w
PMCID: PMC11794333
PMID: 39904782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Informed consent: N/A. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests. Research involving human 
participants and/or animals: This article does not contain any studies with 
animals or human participants performed by any of the authors. Ethical approval 
was not required as this study is a systematic review of published data.


46. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Mar;12(3):100051. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2024.100051.  Epub 2025 Feb 3.

Brain health clinics - An evolving clinical pathway?

Butters AF(1), Blackman J(2), Farouk H(3), Meky S(3), A Newson M(2), Lemke T(4), 
Rosewell N(5), Selwood JA(2), Turner NL(2), Coulthard EJ(2), Archer HA(6).

Author information:
(1)Southmead Hospital, North Bristol NHS Trust, Southmead Road, 
Westbury-on-Trym, BS10 5NB, UK; ReMemBr Group, University of Bristol Medical 
School, Level 1, Learning and Research Building, Southmead Hospital, 
Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol, BS10 5NB, UK. Electronic address: 
anneka.butters@bristol.ac.uk.
(2)Southmead Hospital, North Bristol NHS Trust, Southmead Road, 
Westbury-on-Trym, BS10 5NB, UK; ReMemBr Group, University of Bristol Medical 
School, Level 1, Learning and Research Building, Southmead Hospital, 
Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol, BS10 5NB, UK.
(3)Southmead Hospital, North Bristol NHS Trust, Southmead Road, 
Westbury-on-Trym, BS10 5NB, UK; University of Bath, Claverton Down, Bath, 
Somerset, BA2 7AY, UK.
(4)Southmead Hospital, North Bristol NHS Trust, Southmead Road, 
Westbury-on-Trym, BS10 5NB, UK; ReMemBr Group, University of Bristol Medical 
School, Level 1, Learning and Research Building, Southmead Hospital, 
Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol, BS10 5NB, UK; University of Bath, Claverton Down, 
Bath, Somerset, BA2 7AY, UK.
(5)Southmead Hospital, North Bristol NHS Trust, Southmead Road, 
Westbury-on-Trym, BS10 5NB, UK.
(6)Southmead Hospital, North Bristol NHS Trust, Southmead Road, 
Westbury-on-Trym, BS10 5NB, UK; ReMemBr Group, University of Bristol Medical 
School, Level 1, Learning and Research Building, Southmead Hospital, 
Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol, BS10 5NB, UK. Electronic address: 
hilary.archer@nbt.nhs.uk.

BACKGROUND: Dementia clinics traditionally focus on diagnosis and 
post-diagnostic care. Awareness is increasing that attention to risk factors and 
their prevention also forms a key part of dementia management.
OBJECTIVES: To describe our Bristol Brain Health clinic including 1) Clinical 
pathway 2) Patient population 3) Patient experience 4) Evaluation in line with 
published gold standards.
DESIGN/ SETTING: Observational, (longitudinal/retrospective) clinical cohort 
study of patients attending the North Bristol NHS Trust's Brain Health Service.
PARTICIPANTS: One-hundred and ten patients with mild cognitive disorders 
attending clinic between 2017- 2023.
MEASUREMENTS: We collected data from medical records including clinical 
assessments, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for biomarkers of Alzheimer's Disease 
(AD), and a lifestyle questionnaire. Descriptive statistics were performed and a 
clinic evaluation was carried out using recommendations from The European Task 
Force for Brain Health Services.
RESULTS: Average age was 63.9 years (SD: 11.2). 74 patients were male (62.8 %). 
The mean baseline Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) score was 24.4 (SD: 3.6). 
73 patients (66.4 %) received a preventative lifestyle intervention with a 
review of risk and protective factors for dementia, and development of a bespoke 
risk reduction plan. Commonly identified risk factors; low mood; n = 61 (55.5 
%), hypertension; n = 54 (49.1 %), high cholesterol; n = 42 (47.3 %), and 
hearing loss; n = 44 (40 %). CSF testing for AD was carried out in 38 
individuals and was positive in 17 cases. At last review, one fifth of patients 
had progressed to dementia. Most common diagnoses; AD; n = 22 (20 %), Functional 
Cognitive Disorder; n = 16 (14.6 %), Vascular; n = 8 (7.3 %). Patient feedback 
was good, with all responders recommending the clinic and more than 
three-quarters of patients being 'extremely likely" to. Clinic evaluation 
highlighted 'Risk Assessment' and 'Personalised Intervention' as brain health 
pillar strengths. 'Cognitive Enhancement' was an area for further development.
CONCLUSIONS: Our patients had access to a range of cutting-edge, diagnostic 
assessments, in addition to a preventative lifestyle intervention. Our 
population had a high rate of dementia risk factors and a heterogeneous range of 
diagnoses. CSF biomarker testing was helpful for differentiating between those 
with early AD, and others with a multi-factorial presentation. The attendance 
rates for our preventative intervention suggests patients are receptive to 
taking a proactive approach to managing risk. This population merits further 
investigation and continued targeting with preventative measures.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2024.100051
PMCID: PMC11861520
PMID: 39904691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Elizabeth Coulthard reports a 
relationship with National Institute for Health and Care Research that includes: 
funding grants. Elizabeth Coulthard reports a relationship with Rosetrees Trust 
that includes: funding grants. Elizabeth Coulthard reports a relationship with 
Bristol Research into Alzheimers and Care of the Elderly that includes: funding 
grants. Elizabeth Coulthard reports a relationship with Medical research council 
that includes: funding grants. Elizabeth Coulthard reports a relationship with 
Biomedical research centre that includes: funding grants. Elizabeth Coulthard 
reports a relationship with Eisai Inc that includes: consulting or advisory, 
speaking and lecture fees, and travel reimbursement. Elizabeth Coulthard reports 
a relationship with Lilly that includes: consulting or advisory, speaking and 
lecture fees, and travel reimbursement. Elizabeth Coulthard reports a 
relationship with Biogen Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Elizabeth 
Coulthard reports a relationship with Top Hat Clinical Trial (DSMB) that 
includes: board membership. Elizabeth Coulthard reports a relationship with 
DESPIAD that includes: board membership. Jonathan Blackman reports a 
relationship with Alzheimers Research UK that includes: funding grants. Jonathan 
Blackman reports a relationship with David Telling Charitable Trust that 
includes: funding grants. Nicholas Turner reports a relationship with National 
Institute for Health and Care Research that includes: board membership and 
funding grants. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


47. Immunity. 2025 Feb 11;58(2):326-343.e11. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2025.01.007.
Epub  2025 Feb 3.

NLRP3-mediated glutaminolysis controls microglial phagocytosis to promote 
Alzheimer's disease progression.

McManus RM(1), Komes MP(1), Griep A(1), Santarelli F(1), Schwartz S(2), Ramón 
Perea J(3), Schlachetzki JCM(4), Bouvier DS(5), Khalil MA(6), Lauterbach MA(1), 
Heinemann L(7), Schlüter T(1), Pour MS(1), Lovotti M(2), Stahl R(2), Duthie 
F(2), Rodríguez-Alcázar JF(2), Schmidt SV(2), Spitzer J(2), Noori P(8), Maillo 
A(9), Boettcher A(10), Herron B(11), McConville J(12), Gomez-Cabrero D(13), 
Tegnér J(14), Glass CK(15), Hiller K(6), Latz E(16), Heneka MT(17).

Author information:
(1)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Venusberg Campus 1/99, 
53127 Bonn, Germany; Institute of Innate Immunity, University Hospital Bonn, 
Bonn, Germany.
(2)Institute of Innate Immunity, University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(3)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Venusberg Campus 1/99, 
53127 Bonn, Germany; Department of Molecular Neuropathology, Centro de Biología 
Molecular "Severo Ochoa" (UAM-CSIC), Madrid 28049, Spain.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman 
Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.
(5)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, 4367 
Belvaux, Luxembourg; Laboratoire National de Santé (LNS), National Center of 
Pathology (NCP), Dudelange, Luxembourg; Luxembourg Center of Neuropathology 
(LCNP), Dudelange, Luxembourg.
(6)Department of Bioinformatics and Biochemistry, Braunschweig Integrated Center 
of Systems Biology (BRICS), Technische Universität Braunschweig, Braunschweig, 
Germany.
(7)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Venusberg Campus 1/99, 
53127 Bonn, Germany.
(8)Unit of Computational Medicine, Center for Molecular Medicine, Department of 
Medicine Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(9)Translational Bioinformatics Unit, Navarrabiomed, Universidad Pública de 
Navarra, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Navarra (IdiSNA), Pamplona, 
Navarra, Spain.
(10)Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Novartis Pharma AG, 4056 Basel, 
Switzerland.
(11)Regional Neuropathology Service, Institute of Pathology, Royal Victoria 
Hospital, Belfast Health and Social Care Trust, Grosvenor Road, Belfast BT12 
6BL, Northern Ireland.
(12)Ulster Hospital, Dundonald, Northern Ireland.
(13)Translational Bioinformatics Unit, Navarrabiomed, Universidad Pública de 
Navarra, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Navarra (IdiSNA), Pamplona, 
Navarra, Spain; Biological and Environmental Science and Engineering Division, 
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), Thuwal, Saudi 
Arabia.
(14)Unit of Computational Medicine, Center for Molecular Medicine, Department of 
Medicine Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; Biological and 
Environmental Science and Engineering Division, King Abdullah University of 
Science and Technology (KAUST), Thuwal, Saudi Arabia; Computer, Electrical and 
Mathematical Sciences and Engineering Division, King Abdullah University of 
Science and Technology (KAUST), Thuwal, Saudi Arabia; Science for Life 
Laboratory, Tomtebodavagen 23A, 17165, Solna, Sweden.
(15)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA; Department of Medicine, 
University of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.
(16)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Venusberg Campus 1/99, 
53127 Bonn, Germany; Institute of Innate Immunity, University Hospital Bonn, 
Bonn, Germany; Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research, Norwegian University 
of Science and Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway; Division of Infectious 
Diseases and Immunology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, 
MA 01605, USA; Deutsches Rheuma-Forschungszentrum (DRFZ), Charitéplatz 1, 10117 
Berlin, Germany.
(17)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Venusberg Campus 1/99, 
53127 Bonn, Germany; Institute of Innate Immunity, University Hospital Bonn, 
Bonn, Germany; Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of 
Luxembourg, 4367 Belvaux, Luxembourg; Division of Infectious Diseases and 
Immunology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA 01605, 
USA. Electronic address: michael.heneka@unil.lu.

Activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome has been implicated in the pathogenesis of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) via the release of IL-1β and ASC specks. However, 
whether NLRP3 is involved in pathways beyond this remained unknown. Here, we 
found that Aβ deposition in vivo directly triggered NLRP3 activation in APP/PS1 
mice, which model many features of AD. Loss of NLRP3 increased glutamine- and 
glutamate-related metabolism and increased expression of microglial Slc1a3, 
which was associated with enhanced mitochondrial and metabolic activity. The 
generation of α-ketoglutarate during this process impacted cellular function, 
including increased clearance of Aβ peptides as well as epigenetic and gene 
transcription changes. This pathway was conserved between murine and human 
cells. Critically, we could mimic this effect pharmacologically using 
NLRP3-specific inhibitors, but only with chronic NLRP3 inhibition. Together, 
these data demonstrate an additional role for NLRP3, where it can modulate 
mitochondrial and metabolic function, with important downstream consequences for 
the progression of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2025.01.007
PMID: 39904338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests M.T.H. is a scientific 
advisory board member at Alector the Dementia Discovery Fund, and Muna 
Therapeutics and has received honoraria for oral presentations from Pfizer, 
Novartis, Roche, Abbvie, and Biogen. E.L. is a co-founder and adviser at IFM 
Therapeutics, Dioscure Therapeutics, “Stealth” Biotech, and Odyssey 
Therapeutics. C.K.G. is a co-founder, shareholder, and consultant to Asteroid 
Therapeutics. A.B is an employee of Novartis, Basel, Switzerland.


48. J Clin Neurosci. 2025 Apr;134:111099. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2025.111099. Epub
2025  Feb 3.

A new paradigm for neurodegenerative diseases classification: A clinical 
perspective.

Giannakis A(1), Konitsiotis S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Ioannina, University Campus, Stavrou 
Niarchou Av., Ioannina, Greece. Electronic address: papadates@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Ioannina, University Campus, Stavrou 
Niarchou Av., Ioannina, Greece.

A vast progress has been made in the understanding of neurodegenerative diseases 
during the past few years. However, clinical diagnostic accuracy continues to be 
very low, despite the introduction of various diagnostic tools and repeated 
revisions of diagnostic criteria. For instance, patients with Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) may present with symptoms that overlap with other neurodegenerative 
conditions like dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), making accurate diagnosis 
challenging. This diagnostic uncertainty can lead to delayed or incorrect 
treatment, significantly impacting patients' quality of life and prognosis. 
Thus, the definite diagnosis still relies on post-mortem pathological findings, 
placing a significant burden on both clinicians and researchers. As a growing 
body of evidence indicates, co-pathology seems to be the rule among 
neurodegenerative diseases. Additionally, a single pathological diagnosis, such 
as AD, can manifest in various clinical presentations, ranging from 
predominantly cognitive impairment to significant motor symptoms. Each of these 
presentations currently requires its own set of complicated diagnostic criteria. 
Perhaps, the time has come for a much-needed radical revision of existing 
clinical diagnostic criteria. Inclusion of patients do not neatly fit into 
existing diagnostic categories for neurodegenerative diseases, in future 
large-scale, longitudinal studies and/or clinical trials, and systematic 
assessment of their clinical features and disease progression using machine 
learning could generate valuable data on patients with mixed pathologies and 
improve our understanding of how to effectively treat these complex cases.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2025.111099
PMID: 39903975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


49. Brain. 2025 Jul 7;148(7):2429-2440. doi: 10.1093/brain/awaf038.

The landscape of autosomal-dominant Alzheimer's disease: global distribution and 
age of onset.

Liu H(1), Marsh TW(2), Shi X(3), Renton AE(4), Bowling KM(5), Ziegemeier E(1), 
Wang G(3), Cao Y(3), Aristel A(4), Li J(6), Dickson A(5), Perrin RJ(1)(5), Goate 
AM(4), Fernández V(7), Day GS(8), Doering M(9), Daniels A(1), Gordon BA(10), 
Benzinger TLS(10), Hassenstab J(1), Ibanez L(11), Supnet-Bell C(1), Xiong C(3), 
Allegri R(12), Berman SB(13), Fox NC(14), Ryan NS(14), Huey ED(15), Vöglein 
J(16)(17), Noble JM(18), Roh JH(19), Jucker M(20)(21), Laske C(20), Ikeuchi 
T(22), Sanchez-Valle R(23), Schofield PR(24)(25), Mendez PC(26), Chhatwal 
JP(27), Farlow M(28), Lee JH(29), Levey AI(30), Levin J(16)(17), Lopera F(31), 
Martins R(32), Niimi Y(33), Rosa-Neto P(34), Morris JC(1), Bateman RJ(1), Karch 
CM(2), Cruchaga C(2), McDade E(1), Llibre-Guerra JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO 63110, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO 63110, USA.
(3)Division of Biostatistics, Washington University School of Medicine, St 
Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(4)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Department of Genetics and 
Genomic Sciences, and Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65212, USA.
(7)Fundacio ACE, Institut Catala de Neurosciencies Aplicades, Barcelona 08028, 
Spain.
(8)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic in Florida, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.
(9)Bernard Becker Medical Library, Washington University School of Medicine, St 
Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(10)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO 63110, USA.
(11)Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(12)Department of Cognitive Neurology, Instituto Neurológico Fleni, Buenos Aires 
C1428AQK, Argentina.
(13)Department of Neurology and Clinical & Translational Science, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
(14)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease and UK Dementia Research Institute 
at Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University College London, London WC1N 
3BG, UK.
(15)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Alpert Medical School of Brown 
University, Providence, RI 02903, USA.
(16)Department of Neurology, LMU University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich 81377, 
Germany.
(17)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich 81377, Germany.
(18)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's disease and the Aging Brain, GH 
Sergievsky Center, Department of Neurology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(19)Departments of Neurology and Physiology, Korea University Anam Hospital, 
Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul 02841, South Korea.
(20)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Tübingen 72076, 
Germany.
(21)Hertie-Institute for Clinical Brain Research, University of Tübingen, 
Tübingen 72076, Germany.
(22)Brain Research Institute, Niigata University, Niigata 951-8585, Japan.
(23)Raquel Sánchez-Valle, Alzheimer's and other cognitive disorders unit, 
Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, FRCB-IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Barcelona 
08036, Spain.
(24)Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW 2031, Australia.
(25)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medicine, University of 
New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.
(26)Department of Neurology, Institute for Neurological Research Fleni, Buenos 
Aires C1428AQK, Argentina.
(27)Massachusetts General Hospital, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(28)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(29)Asian Medical Center, Seoul 05278, South Korea.
(30)Goizueta Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 
30329, USA.
(31)Group of Neuroscience of Antioquia, GNA, Medical School, University of 
Antioquia, Medellin 050010, Colombia.
(32)Ageing and Alzheimer's Disease Center, Edith Cowan University, Perth, 
Western Australia 6027, Australia.
(33)Unit for Early and Exploratory Clinical Development, University of Tokyo 
Hospital, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.
(34)McGill University Research Centre for Studies in Aging, Department of 
Neurology and Neurosurgery, Psychiatry and Pharmacology and Therapeutics, McGill 
University, Montreal, QC H4H 1R3, Canada.

We present a comprehensive global analysis of genetic variants associated with 
autosomal-dominant Alzheimer's disease (ADAD). A total of 550 variants in the 
APP, PSEN1 and PSEN2 genes were identified, of which 279 were classified as 
pathogenic or likely pathogenic based on American College of Medical Genetics 
and Genomics and the Association for Molecular Pathology criteria, utilizing 
data from the Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network (DIAN), literature and 
public databases. Symptomatic age at onset (AAO) data were estimated for 227 of 
these variants, allowing detailed characterization of their frequency, 
pathogenicity and AAO. Importantly, 226 variants met eligibility criteria for 
inclusion in disease-modifying clinical trials. Furthermore, we demonstrated the 
predictive value of mean variant AAO and parental AAO in predicting symptomatic 
AAO, validated against converters who became symptomatic during follow-up in the 
DIAN Observational Study. This dataset provides critical insights into the 
global landscape of ADAD and reveals the genetic and AAO heterogeneity of ADAD 
variants while refining variant trial eligibility criteria.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awaf038
PMCID: PMC12233549
PMID: 39903689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.C.M. is the Friedman Distinguished Professor 
of Neurology, Director, Knight ADRC; Associate Director of DIAN and Founding 
Principal Investigator of DIAN. He is funded by NIH grants P30 AG066444; P01 
AG003991; P01 AG026276; U19 AG032438 and U19 AG024904. Neither J.C.M. nor his 
family owns stock or has equity interest (outside of mutual funds or other 
externally directed accounts) in any pharmaceutical or biotechnology company. 
J.H. is a paid consultant for F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd., Takeda and Lundbeck, 
and is on the Data Safety and Monitoring Board for Eisai. C.C. receives research 
support from: Biogen, EISAI, Alector and Parabon. The funders of the study had 
no role in the collection, analysis or interpretation of data; in the writing of 
the report; or in the decision to submit the paper for publication. C.C. is a 
member of the advisory board of Vivid Genetics, Halia Therapeutics and Adx 
Healthcare. R.J.B. is the Director of the DIAN-TU and Principal Investigator of 
the DIAN-TU-001. He receives research support from the NIH-NIA, DIAN-TU Trial 
Pharmaceutical Partners (Eli Lilly and Company, F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. and 
Avid Radiopharmaceuticals), Alzheimer’s Association, GHR Foundation, Anonymous 
Organization, DIAN-TU Pharma Consortium (active: Biogen, Eisai, Eli Lilly and 
Company, Janssen, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd./Genentech, United Neuroscience. 
Previous: AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Forum, Mithridion, Novartis, Pfizer, 
Sanofi). He has been an invited speaker and consultant for AC Immune, F. Hoffman 
La Roche, Ltd., and Janssen and a consultant for Amgen and Eisai. A.E.D. reports 
no competing interests. He receives research support for this work from the NIA 
(R01AG053267, U19AG032438). T.I. reports no competing interests. He received 
research support for this work from Agency for Medical Research and Development 
(AMED) (JP23dk0207066 and JP23dk0207060). G.S.D. reports no competing interests 
that are directly relevant to this work. His research is supported by NIH 
(K23AG064029, U01AG057195, U01NS120901, U19AG032438) and the Chan Zuckerberg 
Initiative. He serves as a consultant for Parabon Nanolabs Inc. and as a Topic 
Editor (Dementia) for DynaMed (EBSCO). He is the co-Project Principal 
Investigator for a clinical trial in anti-NMDAR encephalitis, which receives 
support from Horizon Pharmaceuticals. He has developed educational materials for 
PeerView Media, Inc. and Continuing Education Inc. He owns stock in ANI 
pharmaceuticals. G.S.D.’s institution has received support from Eli Lilly for 
development and participation in an educational event promoting early diagnosis 
of symptomatic Alzheimer disease, and in-kind contributions of radiotracer 
precursors for tau-PET neuroimaging in studies of memory and ageing (via Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly). C.H.vD. receives 
research support from the NIH-NIA, Biogen, Eisai, Eli Lilly and Co., Janssen, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd./Genentech, UCB and Cerevel. He serves as a consultant 
for F. Hoffman La Roche, Ltd., Eisai, Ono and Cerevel. E.M.M. receives grant 
funding from NIA; institutional funding from Eli Lilly, Hoffmann-La Roche, 
Eisai. He is a Data and Safety Monitoring Board member (paid directly) for 
Alector; Eli Lilly; a Scientific Advisory Board Member (paid directly) for 
Alzamend, Fondation Alzheimer. He acts as a consultant/advisor for Sage 
Therapeutics, Eli Lilly, Sanofi, AstraZeneca, Hoffmann La-Roche. N.C.F. reports 
consulting fees from Biogen, Eisai, Ionis, Lilly, Roche/Genentech and Siemens 
paid to UCL; he has served on a Data Safety Monitoring Board for Biogen. He 
acknowledges grant support from the Alzheimer’s Society, Alzheimer’s Research 
UK, Rosetrees Trust, the Sigrid Rausing Trust, the UK Dementia Research 
Institute and the UK NIHR UCLH Biomedical Research Centre. S.B.B. reports no 
competing interests relevant to this work. Her research is supported by the NIH 
and the Michael J. Fox Foundation. J.L.l.G.’s research is supported by NIH-NIA 
(K01AG073526), the Alzheimer’s Association (AARFD-21-851415, SG-20-690363), the 
Michael J. Fox Foundation (MJFF-020770), the Foundation for Barnes-Jewish 
Hospital and the McDonnell Academy. J.L. and J.H.R. receive research support for 
this work from the Korea Dementia Research Project through the Korea Dementia 
Research Center (KDRC), funded by the Ministry of Health & Welfare and Ministry 
of Science and ICT, Republic of Korea (RS-2024-00344521). T.L.S.B. has 
investigator-initiated research funding from the NIH, the Alzheimer’s 
Association, the Barnes-Jewish Hospital Foundation and Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals. T.L.S.B. participates as a site investigator in clinical 
trials sponsored by Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly and Company, Biogen, 
Eisai, Jaansen and F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd. She also serves as an unpaid 
consultant to Eisai and Siemensand is on the Speaker’s Bureau for Biogen. R.J.P. 
is Neuropathology Core Leader for the DIAN observational study and the DIAN 
Trials Unit. He receives research support for this work from the NIA (U19 
AG032438, U19AG032438-09S1, R01AG068319). His laboratory receives cost recovery 
funding from Biogen for tissue procurement and processing services related to 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis clinical trials. Neither he nor his family owns 
stock or has equity interest (outside of mutual funds or other externally 
directed accounts) in any pharmaceutical or biotechnology company. C.X. is 
supported by NIA grants R01 AG067505 and R01 AG053550. The other authors report 
no competing interests.


50. Geroscience. 2025 Jun;47(3):4429-4449. doi: 10.1007/s11357-025-01550-8. Epub 
2025 Feb 4.

Inhibition of soluble epoxide hydrolase ameliorates cerebral blood flow 
autoregulation and cognition in alzheimer's disease and diabetes-related 
dementia rat models.

Tang C(#)(1)(2), Border JJ(#)(2), Zhang H(#)(2), Gregory A(1), Bai S(3), Fang 
X(2), Liu Y(2), Wang S(2), Hwang SH(4), Gao W(2), Morgan GC(1), Smith J(1), Bunn 
D(1), Cantwell C(1), Wagner KM(4), Morisseau C(4), Yang J(4), Shin SM(5), 
O'Herron P(1), Bagi Z(1), Filosa JA(1), Dong Y(6), Yu H(5), Hammock BD(4), Roman 
RJ(1), Fan F(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Physiology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, GA, USA.
(2)Pharmacology &Toxicology, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, 
MS, USA.
(3)Center for Biotechnology and Genomic Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, 
Augusta University, Augusta, GA, USA.
(4)Entomology and Nematology and UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of California Davis, Davis, CA, USA.
(5)Anesthesiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA.
(6)Georgia Prevention Center, Augusta University, Augusta, GA, USA.
(7)Physiology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, GA, USA. 
ffan@augusta.edu.
(8)Pharmacology &Toxicology, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, 
MS, USA. ffan@augusta.edu.
(9)Department of Physiology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, 
1462 Laney Walker Blvd, Augusta, GA, 30912, USA. ffan@augusta.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Aug 31:2024.08.30.610540. doi: 10.1101/2024.08.30.610540.

Alzheimer's Disease and Alzheimer's Disease-related dementias (AD/ADRD) pose 
major global healthcare challenges, with diabetes mellitus (DM) being a key risk 
factor. Both AD and DM-related ADRD are characterized by reduced cerebral blood 
flow, although the exact mechanisms remain unclear. We previously identified 
compromised cerebral hemodynamics as early signs in TgF344-AD and type 2 DM-ADRD 
(T2DN) rat models. Genome-wide studies have linked AD/ADRD to SNPs in soluble 
epoxide hydrolase (sEH). This study explored the effects of sEH inhibition with 
TPPU on cerebral vascular function and cognition in AD and DM-ADRD models. 
Chronic TPPU treatment improved cognition in both AD and DM-ADRD rats without 
affecting body weight. In DM-ADRD rats, TPPU reduced plasma glucose and HbA1c 
levels. Transcriptomic analysis of primary cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells 
from AD rats treated with TPPU revealed enhanced pathways related to cell 
contraction, alongside decreased oxidative stress and inflammation. Both AD and 
DM-ADRD rats exhibited impaired myogenic responses and autoregulation in the 
cerebral circulation, which were normalized with chronic sEH inhibition. 
Additionally, TPPU improved acetylcholine-induced vasodilation in the middle 
cerebral arteries (MCA) of DM-ADRD rats. Acute TPPU administration unexpectedly 
caused vasoconstriction in the MCA of DM-ADRD rats at lower doses. In contrast, 
higher doses or longer durations were required to induce effective vasodilation 
at physiological perfusion pressure in both control and ADRD rats. Additionally, 
TPPU decreased reactive oxygen species production in cerebral vessels of AD and 
DM-ADRD rats. These findings provide novel evidence that chronic sEH inhibition 
can reverse cerebrovascular dysfunction and cognitive impairments in AD/ADRD, 
offering a promising avenue for therapeutic development.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to American Aging Association.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-025-01550-8
PMCID: PMC12181608
PMID: 39903369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: All participants have 
consented to the publication. Conflict of interest: B.D. Hammock is a founder 
and S.H. Hwang, and J. Yang are employees of EicOsis L.L.C., a startup company 
with an sEH inhibitor in human clinical trials.


51. Neurochem Res. 2025 Feb 4;50(2):95. doi: 10.1007/s11064-025-04350-w.

Improvements in Exercise for Alzheimer's Disease: Highlighting FGF21-Induced 
Cerebrovascular Protection.

Wang J(1), Meng X(1), Yang J(1), Tang Y(1), Zeng F(1), Wang Y(1), Chen Z(1), 
Chen D(1), Zou R(1), Liu W(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness and Sports 
Rehabilitation, Hunan Normal University, No. 437, Lushan South Road, Changsha, 
Hunan Province, 410012, China.
(2)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness and Sports 
Rehabilitation, Hunan Normal University, No. 437, Lushan South Road, Changsha, 
Hunan Province, 410012, China. 18774976589@163.com.
(3)Key Laboratory of Protein Chemistry and Developmental Biology, Ministry of 
Education, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, Hunan Province, 410081, China. 
18774976589@163.com.
(4)Physical Education College, Yuelu District, Hunan Normal University, 
Changsha, Hunan Province, 410081, China. 18774976589@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease. 
Currently, it has shown a trend of earlier onset, with most patients 
experiencing a progressive decline in cognitive function following the disease's 
onset, which places a heavy burden on society and family. Since no drug cure for 
AD exists, exploring new ways for its treatment and prevention has become 
critical. Early vascular damage is an initial trigger for neuronal injury in AD, 
underscoring the importance of vascular health in the early stages of the 
disease. Patients with early AD experience abnormal blood-brain barrier 
transport of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides, with excess Aβ being deposited in the 
cerebral vasculature. The toxic effects of Aβ lead to abnormalities in 
cerebrovascular structure and function. Fibroblast growth factor21 (FGF21) is an 
endocrine factor that positively regulates energy homeostasis and glucose-lipid 
metabolism. Notably, it is one of the effective targets for metabolic disease 
prevention and treatment. Recent studies have found that FGF21 has anti-aging 
and vasoprotective effects, with receptors for FGF21 present in the brain. 
Exercise stimulates the liver to produce large amounts of FGF21, which enters 
the blood-brain barrier with the blood to exert neurovascular protection. 
Therefore, we review the biological properties of FGF21, its role in the 
cerebrovascular structure and function in AD, and the mechanism of 
exercise-regulated FGF21 action on AD-related cerebrovascular changes, aiming to 
provide a new theoretical basis for using exercise to ameliorate degenerative 
neurological diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-025-04350-w
PMID: 39903342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. 
Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. 
Competing Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


52. JMIR Aging. 2025 Feb 4;8:e64033. doi: 10.2196/64033.

Association of Subjective Cognitive Concerns With Performance on Mobile 
App-Based Cognitive Assessment in Cognitively Normal Older Adults: Observational 
Study.

Nester CO(1), De Vito AN(1), Prieto S(1), Kunicki ZJ(1), Strenger J(1)(2), 
Harrington KD(3), Roque N(4), Sliwinski MJ(3), Rabin LA(5), Thompson LI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, The Warren Alpert Medical School 
of Brown University, 222 Richmond St, Providence, RI, 02903, United States, 1 
(401) 863-3330.
(2)Memory and Aging Program, Butler Hospital, Providence, RI, United States.
(3)Center for Healthy Aging, Penn State University, University Park, PA, United 
States.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL, United 
States.
(5)Department of Psychology, Brooklyn College CUNY, Brooklyn, NY, United States.

BACKGROUND: Subjective cognitive concerns (SCCs) may be among the earliest 
clinical symptoms of dementia. There is growing interest in applying a mobile 
app-based cognitive assessment to remotely screen for cognitive status in 
preclinical dementia, but the relationship between SCC and relevant mobile 
assessment metrics is uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to characterize the relationship between SCC and 
adherence, satisfaction, and performance on mobile app assessments in 
cognitively unimpaired older adults.
METHODS: Participants (N=122; Meanage=68.85 [SD 4.93] years; Meaneducation=16.85 
[SD 2.39] years; female: n=82, 66.7%; White:n=106, 86.2%) completed 8 assessment 
days using Mobile Monitoring of Cognitive Change (M2C2), an app-based testing 
platform, with brief daily sessions within morning, afternoon, and evening time 
windows (24 total testing sessions). M2C2 includes digital working memory, 
processing speed, and episodic memory tasks. Participants provided feedback 
about their satisfaction and motivation related to M2C2 upon study completion. 
SCC was assessed using the Cognitive Function Instrument. Regression analyses 
evaluated the association between SCC and adherence, satisfaction, and 
performance on M2C2, controlling for age, sex, depression, and loneliness. 
Linear-mixed effects models evaluated whether SCC predicted M2C2 subtest 
performance over the 8-day testing period, controlling for covariates.
RESULTS: SCC was not associated with app satisfaction or protocol motivation, 
but it was significantly associated with lower rates of protocol adherence 
(ß=-.20, P=.37, 95% CI -.65 to -.02). Higher SCC endorsement significantly 
predicted worse overall episodic memory performance (ß=-.20, P=.02, 95% CI -.02 
to -.01), but not working memory or processing speed. There was a main effect of 
SCC on working memory performance at day 1 (estimate=-1.05, SE=0.47, P=.03) and 
a significant interaction between SCC and working memory over the 8-day period 
(estimate=0.05, SE=0.02, P=.03), such that SCC was associated with initially 
worse, then progressively better working memory performance.
CONCLUSIONS: SCCs are associated with worse overall memory performance on mobile 
app assessments, patterns of cognitive inefficiency (variable working memory), 
and mildly diminished adherence across an 8-day assessment period. Findings 
suggest that mobile app assessments may be sensitive to subtle cognitive 
changes, with important implications for early detection and treatment for 
individuals at risk for dementia.

© Caroline O Nester, Alyssa N De Vito, Sarah Prieto, Zachary J Kunicki, Jennifer 
Strenger, Karra D Harrington, Nelson Roque, Martin J Sliwinski, Laura A Rabin, 
Louisa I Thompson. Originally published in JMIR Aging (https://aging.jmir.org).

DOI: 10.2196/64033
PMCID: PMC11812482
PMID: 39903213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: KDH is an employee of 
Cogstate Ltd. All remaining authors declare no conflicts of interest.


53. J Neurochem. 2025 Feb;169(2):e70011. doi: 10.1111/jnc.70011.

FOXP1 is a Transcription Factor for the Alzheimer's Disease Risk Gene SORL1.

Fu X(1), Quan S(1), Liang W(2), Li Y(2), Cai H(1), Ren Z(1), Xu Y(1), Wang Z(2), 
Jia L(1).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)The National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disease, Xuanwu Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.

Sortilin-related receptor 1 (SORL1) is a risk gene of Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
and some protein-truncating (PTV) and rare missense variants causing the loss of 
function of SORL1 contribute to AD pathogenesis. SORL1 is an endosomal receptor 
that interacts with multiple protein sorting complexes to facilitate the 
transport of various cargoes through the endolysosomal network (ELN). However, 
the regulatory mechanisms governing SORL1 expression remain unknown. Through 
biochemical methods, we identified Forkhead Box P1 (FOXP1) as a binding protein 
to the minimal promoter region of SORL1 gene. Silencing FOXP1 using siRNA 
significantly decreased the activity of the SORL1 minimal promoter and reduced 
SORL1 protein and mRNA levels in the neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y. 
Additionally, using 5xFAD mouse models of AD, we observed significantly 
decreased FOXP1 and SORL1 expression in neurons within the prefrontal cortex. 
Disruption of ELN and the autophagy degradation system by bafilomycin A1 (BafA1) 
appeared to be a specific condition to suppress FOXP1 and hence SORL1 in SH-SY5Y 
cells. These findings highlight the critical role of FOXP1 in regulating SORL1 
expression and suggest that FOXP1 could be a potential target to maintain SORL1 
expression for AD prevention and therapy.

© 2025 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.70011
PMID: 39902677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Arch Intern Med Res. 2025;8(1):1-13. doi: 10.26502/aimr.0189. Epub 2025 Jan
10.

Semaglutide: Double-edged Sword with Risks and Benefits.

Pillarisetti L(1), Agrawal DK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Research, College of Osteopathic Medicine of the 
Pacific, Western University of Health Sciences, Pomona, California 91766 USA.

Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus therapy has evolved over the years to now include a new 
class of therapeutics, semaglutide. This article reviews the mechanism of action 
and formulation of semaglutide therapy, potential benefits, contraindications, 
adverse effects, and drug interactions. Oral and subcutaneous semaglutide 
therapies have shown effectiveness in improving glycemic control, weight loss, 
and reducing cardiovascular risks associated with diabetes mellitus. Semaglutide 
has also shown potential in being used as a therapeutic strategy in Alzheimer's 
disease due to its anti-neuroinflammatory effects and being used to treat 
polycystic ovary syndrome. However, semaglutide therapy is also associated with 
concerning adverse effects like acute pancreatitis, anesthetic risks like 
pulmonary aspiration or residual gastric content, acute kidney injury, acute 
gallbladder injury, nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy and diabetic 
retinopathy. Contraindications of semaglutide include history of medullary 
thyroid carcinoma or multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, and 
pregnancy. Drug interactions to consider with semaglutide therapy include those 
also used in diabetes treatment, like metformin, as well as anti-psychotics, due 
to anti-psychotics associated weight gain. The findings of this article 
emphasize the need for a cross-disciplinary approach to understand the molecular 
mechanisms and clinical implications of semaglutide on patients with complex 
medical histories and treatment regimens. The potential anesthetic risks of 
semaglutide therapy warrant careful consideratiion with ethical concerns. 
Further studies can assess if there is a need to modify pre-operative guidelines 
to account for patient using semaglutide and how delayed gastric emptying and 
constitpation will affect surgical outcomes and complications. While semaglutide 
therapy for diabetes mellitus has been established, there is a need for 
extensive research on repurposing semaglutide in neurodegenerative disease 
treatment.

DOI: 10.26502/aimr.0189
PMCID: PMC11790292
PMID: 39902055

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Both authors have read the 
manuscript and declare no conflict of interest. No writing assistance was 
utilized in the production of this manuscript.


55. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Feb 4;20(1):15. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00802-7.

Cellular senescence induced by cholesterol accumulation is mediated by lysosomal 
ABCA1 in APOE4 and AD.

Wang S(#)(1), Li B(#)(1), Li J(1), Cai Z(1), Hugo C(1), Sun Y(1), Qian L(2), Tcw 
J(2)(3), Chui HC(1), Dikeman D(4), Asante I(5), Louie SG(4), Bennett DA(6), 
Arvanitakis Z(6), Remaley AT(7), Kerman BE(1), Yassine HN(8).

Author information:
(1)Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, 
90033, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology & Biophysics, Chobanian & Avedisian 
School of Medicine, Boston University, Boston, MA, 02118, USA.
(3)Bioinformatics Program, Faculty of Computing & Data Sciences, Boston 
University, Boston, MA, 02215, USA.
(4)Alfred E. Mann School of Pharmacy, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA, 90089, USA.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, 90033, 
USA.
(6)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, 
60612, USA.
(7)National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
(8)Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, 
90033, USA. hyassine@usc.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 May 14:rs.3.rs-4373201. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-4373201/v1.

BACKGROUND: Cellular senescence, a hallmark of aging, has been implicated in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Cholesterol accumulation is known to 
drive cellular senescence; however, its underlying mechanisms are not fully 
understood. ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) plays an important role 
in cholesterol homeostasis, and its expression and trafficking are altered in 
APOE4 and AD models. However, the role of ABCA1 trafficking in cellular 
senescence associated with APOE4 and AD remains unclear.
METHODS: We examined the association between cellular senescence and ABCA1 
expression in human postmortem brain samples using transcriptomic, histological, 
and biochemical analyses. Unbiased proteomic screening was performed to identify 
the proteins that mediate cellular ABCA1 trafficking. We created ABCA1 knock out 
cell lines and mouse models to validate the role of ABCA1 in cholesterol-induced 
mTORC1 activation and senescence. Additionally, we used APOE4-TR mice and 
induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) models to explore 
cholesterol-ABCA1-senescence pathways.
RESULTS: Transcriptomic profiling of the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex 
from the Religious Order Study/Memory Aging Project (ROSMAP) cohort revealed the 
upregulation of cellular senescence transcriptome signatures in AD, which 
correlated with ABCA1 expression and oxysterol levels. Immunofluorescence and 
immunoblotting analyses confirmed increased lipofuscin-stained lipids and ABCA1 
expression in AD brains and an association with mTOR phosphorylation. Discovery 
proteomics identified caveolin-1, a sensor of cellular cholesterol accumulation, 
as a key promoter of ABCA1 endolysosomal trafficking. Greater caveolin-1 
expression was observed in APOE4-TR mouse models and AD human brains. Oxysterol 
induced mTORC1 activation and senescence were regulated by ABCA1 lysosomal 
trapping. Treatment of APOE4-TR mice with cyclodextrin reduced brain oxysterol 
levels, ABCA1 lysosome trapping, mTORC1 activation, and attenuated senescence 
and neuroinflammation markers. In human iPSC-derived astrocytes, the reduction 
of cholesterol by cyclodextrin attenuated inflammatory responses.
CONCLUSIONS: Oxysterol accumulation in APOE4 and AD induced ABCA1 and caveolin-1 
expression, contributing to lysosomal dysfunction and increased cellular 
senescence markers. This study provides novel insights into how cholesterol 
metabolism accelerates features of brain cellular senescence pathway and 
identifies therapeutic targets to mitigate these processes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00802-7
PMCID: PMC11792374
PMID: 39901180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration. Competing interests: The authors 
declare that they have no conflicts of interest.


56. NPJ Sci Food. 2025 Feb 4;9(1):16. doi: 10.1038/s41538-025-00378-y.

Network pharmacology study on the mechanism of berberine in Alzheimer's disease 
model.

Zhang Y(#)(1), Lv S(#)(2), Huang P(1), Xiao L(1), Lin N(3), Huang E(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative Diseases of Fujian 
Province, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 
Fujian Province, China.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, Dalian, Liaoning Province, China.
(3)Fujian Key Laboratory of Vascular Aging, Department of Geriatrics, Fujian 
Institute of Geriatrics, Fujian Clinical Research Center for Senile Vascular 
Aging and Brain Aging, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, Fujian, 
China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative Diseases of Fujian 
Province, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 
Fujian Province, China. ehuang0705@fjmu.edu.cn.
(5)Scientific Research Center, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian Province, China. ehuang0705@fjmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Research indicated that berberine (BBR) plays a protective role in modulating 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aimed to explore the target genes of BBR 
associated with AD therapy using a network pharmacology study. Through network 
pharmacology analysis, two main potential target genes, β-amyloid precursor 
protein (APP) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG), of 
BBR for AD therapy were screened out. Further experiments demonstrated that BV2 
and C8-D1A treated with BBR were decreased in the mRNA and protein expression of 
APP and presenilin 1 while PPARG was increased with a reduction in the NF-κB 
pathway. A similar result was shown in vivo. Through a network pharmacology 
study, this study supported that BBR played a protective role in the AD mice 
model via blocking APP processing and amyloid plaque formation. It also promotes 
PPARG expression to blockage of NF-κB pathway-mediated inflammatory response and 
neuroinflammation.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41538-025-00378-y
PMCID: PMC11790853
PMID: 39900946

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


57. Sci Rep. 2025 Feb 3;15(1):4037. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-88152-8.

Bauhinia coccinea extract prevents memory loss induced by scopolamine through 
activation of antiapoptotic and antioxidant pathways in mice.

Sohn E(1), Kim BY(1), Kim YJ(1), Kim JH(2), Jeong SJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Korean Medicine Convergence Research Division, Korea Institute of Oriental 
Medicine, Daejeon, 34054, South Korea.
(2)Department of Life Science, Gachon University, Seongnam, Gyeonggi-do, 13120, 
South Korea.
(3)Korean Medicine Convergence Research Division, Korea Institute of Oriental 
Medicine, Daejeon, 34054, South Korea. sjijeong@kiom.re.kr.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by oxidative stress-mediated memory 
dysfunction and neuronal cell death. This study investigated the effects of an 
ethanol extract from Bauhinia coccinea (EEBC) on memory impairment and neuronal 
damage in a memory deficit mouse model. EEBC was administered to ICR mice at 
doses of 50, 100, or 200 mg/kg daily for 3 weeks. Cognitive impairment was 
induced via scopolamine (SCO) injection. Brain tissues were analyzed for 
acetylcholine (ACh) levels, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, neuronal 
apoptosis, and antioxidant markers. Behavioral tests showed that SCO injection 
induced memory loss, whereas EEBC significantly ameliorated SCO-mediated memory 
impairment. EEBC regulated the cholinergic system by decreasing ACh levels and 
enhancing AChE activity. Nissl staining and immunohistochemistry for NeuN showed 
that EEBC exerted neuroprotective effects in SCO-injected mice brains. Moreover, 
EEBC significantly reduced the number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase 
dUTP nick end labeling-positive apoptotic cells increased by SCO treatment. EEBC 
also reversed the SCO-induced changes in apoptosis-related protein expression in 
brain tissues. Furthermore, EEBC significantly reduced malondialdehyde levels 
and activated catalase in SCO-administered brains. Quantitative RNA sequencing 
showed involvement of lipid metabolism in EEBC memory function regulation. Thus, 
EEBC is a promising candidate for attenuating AD progression as it targets the 
cholinergic system and neuronal apoptosis.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-88152-8
PMCID: PMC11791186
PMID: 39900729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


58. BMJ Open. 2025 Feb 3;15(2):e088324. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-088324.

mHealth Intervention for Dementia Prevention through lifestyle Optimisation 
(MIND-PRO) in a primary care setting: protocol for a randomised controlled trial 
in people with low SES and/or migration background.

van der Endt AR(1)(2), Hoevenaar-Blom MP(3)(4), Galenkamp H(3), Kas MJH(5), van 
den Berg E(6), Handels R(7), Moll van Charante EP *(#)(3)(4), Richard E 
*(#)(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public and Occupational Health, Amsterdam UMC Location VUmc, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands j.r.vanderendt@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Donders Institute for Brain Cognition and Behaviour, Department of Neurology, 
Radboudumc, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Public and Occupational Health, Amsterdam UMC Location VUmc, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of General Practice, Amsterdam UMC Location AMC, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences, University of Groningen, Groningen, 
The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Neurology and Alzheimer Center, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(7)Alzheimer Centre Limburg, Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, 
School of Mental Health and Neurosicences, Maastricht University, Maastricht, 
The Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: The Mobile Health (mHealth) Intervention for Dementia Prevention 
through lifestyle Optimisation (MIND-PRO) study addresses the increasing 
prevalence of dementia among populations with lower socio-economic status (SES) 
and/or a migration background. The study aims to evaluate the effectiveness and 
implementation of an mHealth intervention designed for self-managing lifestyle 
modifications with remote coaching to reduce dementia risk factors.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This prospective randomised open-label blinded end point 
(PROBE) trial follows a type 2 hybrid effectiveness-implementation design with a 
12-month intervention period. It aims to recruit 692 participants in Dutch 
primary care. Entry criteria include age 50-75 years, low SES and/or migration 
background, one or more dementia risk factors (hypertension, dyslipidaemia, 
diabetes mellitus, physical inactivity, smoking, depression and overweight) or 
manifest cardiovascular disease and possession of a smartphone. Participants are 
randomised to a coach-supported, interactive app facilitating self-management of 
dementia risk factors or to a control app with static health information. The 
primary effectiveness outcome is a composite score of systolic blood pressure, 
non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and body mass index. Implementation 
outcomes include coverage, adoption, acceptability, appropriateness, 
feasibility, fidelity, costs and sustainability of the intervention. Secondary 
outcomes include the Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Ageing and Dementia risk score 
and its individual risk factors, and disability, physical activity, depressive 
symptoms, cognitive functioning and daily distance moved.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The MIND-PRO trial is funded by the Netherlands 
Organisation for Health Research and Development (ZonMw, grant number 
10510032120004) and approved by the Ethics Committee of Amsterdam UMC 
(reference: METC 2023.0770). Results are expected in 2026 and will be submitted 
for publication in a peer-reviewed journal, and presented at scientific 
conferences.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN92928122.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-088324
PMCID: PMC11956295
PMID: 39900419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


59. Exp Gerontol. 2025 Apr;202:112698. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2025.112698. Epub
2025  Feb 16.

Statin is associated with higher cortical thickness in early Alzheimer's 
disease.

Zheng Y(1), Gu H(2), Kong Y(3); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 
(ADNI).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Shanghai Jiangong Hospital, Shanghai 200083, China. 
Electronic address: 10666727@tongji.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Tangqiao Community Health Service Center, 
Shanghai 200127, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Yangpu Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai 200438, China.

BACKGROUND: The brain is the most cholesterol-rich organ, essential for 
myelination and neuronal function. Statins, widely used to lower cholesterol, 
cross the blood-brain barrier and may impact brain cholesterol synthesis. 
Despite their widespread use, the effects of statins on cortical regions 
relevant to Alzheimer's disease (AD) are not well understood. This study aimed 
to compare cortical thickness between statin-exposed and statin-unexposed older 
adults and evaluate the potential neuroprotective effects of statins.
METHODS: Data were obtained from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 
(ADNI). The sample included 193 healthy controls (HC), 485 individuals with mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI), and 169 individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Participants were categorized as statin users if they had used statins for at 
least two years. MRI data were processed using FreeSurfer software to estimate 
cortical thickness in 64 regions of interest. ANCOVA models assessed the 
association between statin use and cortical thickness at baseline, and linear 
mixed models evaluated longitudinal changes.
RESULTS: Statin use was associated with increased cortical thickness in multiple 
brain regions across HC, MCI, and AD participants. In HC, statin users had 
greater thickness in the right lateral occipital, left middle temporal, and left 
parahippocampal regions. MCI participants exhibited additional increases in the 
right cuneus, right posterior cingulate, and left superior temporal cortex. In 
AD, statin users had higher thickness in the right cuneus and right superior 
parietal lobule. Longitudinal analysis revealed no statin-related differences in 
cortical thickness changes among HC and AD groups, but in MCI, statins slowed 
cortical thinning in the left medial orbitofrontal cortex.
CONCLUSION: Statin use is associated with greater cortical thickness in older 
adults, particularly in those with MCI. These findings suggest that statins may 
have neuroprotective effects, potentially mitigating neurodegenerative changes 
in early cognitive decline. Further research with larger cohorts and longer 
follow-up periods is needed to confirm these findings and understand the 
mechanisms involved.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2025.112698
PMID: 39900257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The author 
declares no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this paper.


60. Medicina (B Aires). 2025;85(1):39-46.

[Use of antidementia drugs at the end of life].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Del Campo PA(1), Bugianezi J(2), Vescovo OY(2), Latorre J(2), Pollán JA(3), 
Tentoni N(2)(4), Politi MT(2), Ferraris A(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Estadística Aplicada a las Ciencias de la Salud (LEACS), 
Cátedra II de Farmacología, Departamento de Toxicología y Farmacología, Facultad 
de Medicina, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina. E-mail: 
pdelcampo@campus.fmed.uba.ar.
(2)Laboratorio de Estadística Aplicada a las Ciencias de la Salud (LEACS), 
Cátedra II de Farmacología, Departamento de Toxicología y Farmacología, Facultad 
de Medicina, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Servicio de Clínica Médica, Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.
(4)Data Analytics, Resonance, Memphis, Tennessee, USA.
(5)Departamento de Epidemiología, Escuela de Salud Pública, Universidad de 
Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The use of antidementia drugs near the end of life remains 
controversial. We evaluated the prevalence of and factors associated with 
antidementia drug use in the last 6 months of life in older adults with 
dementia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Observational retrospective study of adults ≥60 years, 
affiliated to the Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires health maintenance 
organization, who died with a dementia diagnosis, between 2017 and 2021. The 
main event was the use of antidementia drugs in the 6 months prior to death. We 
fit a logistic regression model to estimate odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence 
intervals (CI) of baseline variables associated with antidementia drug use.
RESULTS: A total of 540/1898 (28%) patients used antidementia drugs in the 6 
months preceding death. Lewy body dementia (OR=1.97; 95%CI, 1.22-3.19) and 
Alzheimer's disease (OR=1.47; 95%CI, 1.12-1.92) were associated with higher odds 
of antidementia drug use. Heart failure (OR=0.65; 95%CI, 0.48-0.89), older age 
(OR=0.75; 95%CI, 0.68-0.81), and prior hospitalizations (OR=0.81; 95%CI, 
0.70-0.93) were inversely associated with antidementia drug use.
DISCUSSION: One out of three patients with dementia receive antidementia drugs 
in the 6 months prior to death despite limited evidence in such a scenario.

Publisher: Introducción: El uso de medicaciones antidemenciales cerca del final 
de la vida es controvertido. Evaluamos la prevalencia de uso de drogas 
antidemenciales en los últimos 6 meses de vida en adultos mayores con demencia y 
sus factores asociados. Materiales y métodos: Estudio observacional 
retrospectivo de pacientes ≥60 años, afiliados al plan de salud del Hospital 
Italiano de Buenos Aires, que fallecieron con un diagnóstico de demencia 
presente entre 2017 y 2021. El evento principal fue el uso de drogas 
antidemenciales en los 6 meses previos a la muerte. Usamos un modelo de 
regresión logística para estimar odds ratio (OR) e intervalos de confianza (IC) 
del 95% de las variables basales asociadas al uso de antidemenciales. 
Resultados: Un total de 540/1898 (28%) pacientes utilizaron antidemenciales en 
los en los 6 meses previos a la muerte. La demencia con cuerpos de Lewy 
(OR=1.97; IC95%, 1.22-3.19) y la enfermedad de Alzheimer (OR=1.47; IC95%, 
1.12-1.92) se asociaron con un mayor uso de drogas antidemenciales. La 
insuficiencia cardíaca (OR=0.65; IC95%, 0.48-0.89), la edad (OR=0.75; IC95%, 
0.68-0.81) y hospitalizaciones previas (OR=0.81; IC95%, 0.70-0.93) se asociaron 
inversamente al uso de antidemenciales. Discusión: Uno de cada tres pacientes 
con demencia reciben drogas antidemenciales en los 6 meses previos a la muerte a 
pesar de la limitada evidencia que soporta su uso en este escenario.

PMID: 39900047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. JAMA Intern Med. 2025 Apr 1;185(4):412-421. doi: 
10.1001/jamainternmed.2024.7719.

Extreme Heat and Hospitalization Among Older Persons With Alzheimer Disease and 
Related Dementias.

Delaney SW(1), Stegmuller A(1), Mork D(2), Mock L(2), Bell ML(3)(4), Gill TM(5), 
Braun D(2)(6), Zanobetti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)School of the Environment, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.
(4)School of Health Policy and Management, College of Health Sciences, Korea 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut.
(6)Department of Data Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2024.7727.

IMPORTANCE: As US society ages and the climate changes, extreme outdoor heat may 
exacerbate the health burden of Alzheimer disease and related dementias (ADRD), 
but where, when, and among whom extreme heat may increase hospitalizations with 
ADRD remains understudied.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between extreme heat and the risk of 
hospitalization with ADRD, and to explore how associations differ across 
climates and population subgroups.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Population-based cohort study, using a 
time-stratified case-crossover design, of Medicare fee-for-service (Part A) 
claims from 2000 to 2018 among beneficiaries aged 65 years or older in the 
contiguous US; time-stratified case-crossover design implemented with 
distributed lag nonlinear models using conditional logistic regression. Data 
were analyzed from October to November 2024.
EXPOSURES: Daily maximum heat index converted to percentiles of climate-specific 
warm season heat index distributions.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The main outcome was each beneficiary's first 
hospitalization with an ADRD diagnosis code, and other measures were 
county-level climates (arid, continental, temperate, or tropical).
RESULTS: The sample included 3 329 977 beneficiaries (2 126 290 [63.9%] female, 
33 887 [1.0%] Asian, 354 771 [10.7%] Black, 61 515 [1.8%] Hispanic, 2 831 391 
[85.0%] White, and 891 815 [26.8%] dual eligible for Medicaid). The odds ratio 
(OR) of hospitalization with ADRD comparing days in the 99th vs 50th percentile 
of the heat index distribution was 1.02 (95% CI, 1.01-1.02), corresponding to 
0.8 (95% CI, 0.5-1.1) additional hospitalizations with ADRD per 1000 
beneficiaries. Results suggest extreme heat associations persist for 3 days 
beyond the initial day. The cumulative OR of hospitalization with ADRD after 4 
days of continuous exposure to heat indexes at the 99th vs 50th percentile was 
1.04 (95% CI, 1.03-1.04), or 1.7 (95% CI, 1.3-2.0) additional hospitalizations 
with ADRD per 1000 beneficiaries. Extrapolating these estimates to the 6.7 
million adults currently living with ADRD suggests that each day of extreme heat 
could contribute to at least 5360 added hospitalizations with ADRD nationwide. 
Effects estimates were similar in temperate and continental climates. Arid and 
tropical climate estimates were somewhat similar but more uncertain. OR point 
estimates for hospitalization from 4 days of continuous extreme heat exposure 
for beneficiaries identifying as Asian (OR, 1.09; 95% CI, 1.02-1.17), Black (OR, 
1.07; 95% CI, 1.05-1.10), and Hispanic (OR, 1.08; 95% CI, 1.03-1.13), were 2.6 
to 3.2 times larger than for White beneficiaries (OR, 1.03; 95% CI, 1.02-1.04).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This study found that extreme heat may pose a growing 
threat to older adults living with ADRD. This threat may be larger among Asian, 
Black, and Hispanic racial and ethnic groups. Clinicians should consider 
counseling patients living with ADRD on extreme heat risks, and policymakers 
should devise risk mitigation programs.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2024.7719
PMCID: PMC11791774
PMID: 39899291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Bell 
reported receiving grants from Wellcome Trust, Health Effects Institute, Robert 
Wood Johnson Foundation, and Yale Women Faculty Forum; personal fees from 
Institute of Physics, the NIH, Health Canada, EHS, PAC-10, UKRI, AXA Research 
Fund Fellowship, University of Texas, Duke, Air Pollution and Climate Change 
Conference, Community Modeling and Analysis System South America, University of 
Connecticut, University of Pennsylvania, Colorado, University of Texas at 
Austin, Arizona State University, Data4Justice, Korea University, Harvard 
University , University of Montana, Columbia University, SciQuest, American 
Journal of Public Health, Clinique, and Toximap; postdoctoral funding from Yale 
Institute for Biospheric Studies Hutchingson; and an honorarium from the 
Environmental Protection Agency outside the submitted work. No other disclosures 
were reported.


62. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2025 Apr;73(4):1189-1197. doi: 10.1111/jgs.19379. Epub 2025
 Feb 3.

Aligning Medications With What Matters Most: Conversations Between Pharmacists, 
People With Dementia, and Care Partners.

Green AR(1), Rosado RQ(1), Daddato AE(2), Wec A(3), Gleason K(2), McPhail TT(2), 
Merrey J(4), Weffald L(2)(5), Swarthout M(4), Feeser S(6), Boyd CM(1), Wolff 
JL(1)(3), Blinka MD(7), Bayliss EA(2), Boxer RS(8).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(2)Kaiser Permanente Colorado Institute for Health Research, Colorado, Aurora, 
USA.
(3)Department of Health Plicy and Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Johns Hopkins Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(5)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Kaiser Permanente Colorado, Colorado, 
Aurora, USA.
(6)Internal Medicine, Johns Hopkins Community Physicians, Baltimore, Maryland, 
USA.
(7)Johns Hopkins Center on Aging and Health, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(8)Davis Department of Medicine, University of California, Sacramento, 
California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Successful deprescribing for people with dementia (PWD) depends on 
communication about medication-related priorities between PWD, care partners and 
clinicians. The objective of this study was to gain in-depth knowledge of how 
elicitation of PWD and care partner medication-related priorities during a 
deprescribing intervention shaped discussions with pharmacists about 
medications.
METHODS: Qualitative analysis of audio-recorded interactions between pharmacists 
and patient-care partner dyads in a pilot study of a pharmacist-led 
deprescribing intervention for PWD in primary care. Patients ≥ 65 years taking 
≥ 7 medications and care partners were recruited from an integrated delivery 
system in Colorado and a community-based medical practice in Maryland. 
Qualitative content analysis was used to analyze 82 transcripts from encounters 
with 55 patient-care partner dyads.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) age of PWD was 81 (8.1) years; 45% were women, 33% Black, 
and 15% Hispanic. PWD took an average of 13 (±5.3) medications at baseline. Care 
partners were on average 66 (13) years of age and most were spouses/partners of 
the PWD. Content analysis identified five themes: (1) Reducing 
medication-related treatment burden; (2) Alleviating burdensome symptoms; (3) 
Maintaining cognition and function; (4) Discussion of tradeoffs; (5) Challenges 
to deprescribing. After eliciting patient and care partner priorities, 
pharmacists recommended both deprescribing and prescribing.
CONCLUSION: Findings from this secondary analysis of a pilot deprescribing 
intervention suggest eliciting medication-related priorities of PWD and care 
partners can support goal-concordant care. These results can inform development 
of interventions to optimize medications for this population.

© 2025 The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.19379
PMCID: PMC12004250
PMID: 39898453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement: The authors 
report no conflicts of interest.


63. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14415. doi: 10.1002/alz.14415. Epub 2025
Feb  3.

Soluble Aβ pathology predicts neurodegeneration and cognitive decline 
independently on p-tau in the earliest Alzheimer's continuum: Evidence across 
two independent cohorts.

Cacciaglia R(1)(2)(3), Falcón C(1)(2)(4), Benavides GS(1)(2)(3), Brugulat-Serrat 
A(1)(2)(3)(5), Alomà MM(1)(6), Calvet MS(1)(2)(3)(7), Molinuevo JL(1), Fauria 
K(1)(2)(3), Minguillón C(1)(2)(3), Kollmorgen G(8), Quijano-Rubio C(9), Blennow 
K(10)(11), Zetterberg H(10)(11)(12)(13)(14)(15), Lorenzini L(16), Wink AM(16), 
Ingala S(16), Barkhof F(16)(17), Ritchie CW(18), Gispert JD(1)(2)(4)(19); ALFA 
study.

Author information:
(1)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento 
Saludable (CIBERFES), Madrid, Spain.
(4)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y 
Nanomedicina (CIBERBBN), Madrid, Spain.
(5)Global Brain Health Institute, San Francisco, California, USA.
(6)Northern California Institute for Research and Education, San Francisco, 
California, USA.
(7)Servei de Neurologia, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Penzberg, Germany.
(9)Roche Diagnostics International Ltd., Rotkreuz, Switzerland.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(11)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(12)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(13)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(14)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(16)Department of Radiology & Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije 
Universiteit, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(17)Queen Square Institute of Neurology and Centre for Medical Image Computing, 
University College London, London, UK.
(18)Edinburgh Dementia Prevention, Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.
(19)Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Identifying the link between early Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathological changes and neurodegeneration in asymptomatic individuals may lead 
to the discovery of preventive strategies. We assessed longitudinal brain 
atrophy and cognitive decline as a function of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) AD 
biomarkers in two independent cohorts of cognitively unimpaired (CU) 
individuals.
METHODS: We used longitudinal voxel-based morphometry (VBM) in combination with 
hippocampal subfield segmentation. Changes in neuroimaging and cognitive 
variables were inspected using general linear models (GLMs) adjusting by age, 
sex, apolipoprotein E (APOE) status, follow-up time, and years of education.
RESULTS: In both cohorts, baseline CSF amyloid beta (Aβ) biomarkers 
significantly predicted medial temporal lobe (MTL) atrophy rates and episodic 
memory (EM) decline independently of CSF phosphorylated tau (p-tau).
DISCUSSION: Our data suggest that soluble Aβ dyshomeostasis triggers MTL 
longitudinal atrophy and EM decline independently of CSF p-tau. Our data 
underscore the need for secondary preventive strategies at the earliest stages 
of the AD pathological cascade.
HIGHLIGHTS: We assessed brain atrophy and cognitive decline in asymptomatic 
individuals. Aβ biomarkers predicted MTL atrophy independently of p-tau. Our 
results underscore the importance of undertaking Alzheimer's preclinical trials.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14415
PMCID: PMC11848178
PMID: 39898436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This publication is part of the ALFA study 
(ALzheimer's and FAmilies). The authors would like to express their most sincere 
gratitude to the ALFA project participants, without whom this research would not 
have been possible. The authors would like to thank Roche Diagnostics 
International Ltd. for kindly providing the kits for the CSF analysis of ALFA+ 
participants. F.B. is Steering Committee or Data Safety Monitoring Board member 
for Biogen, Merck, ATRI/ACTC, and Prothena, has served as consultant for Roche, 
Celltrion, Rewind Therapeutics, Merck, IXICO, Jansen, and Combinostics, has 
research agreements with Merck, Biogen, GE Healthcare, Roche, and is co‐founder 
and shareholder of Queen Square Analytics LTD. J.D.G. has received research 
funding by GE Healthcare, Roche Diagnostics and Hoffmann – La Roche, speaker's 
fees from Biogen and Philips Nederlands, and consulting fees from Roche 
Diagnostics and serves on the Molecular Neuroimaging scientific board of 
Prothena Biosciences. The rest of the authors have no conflict of interest to 
declare. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


64. iScience. 2025 Jan 4;28(2):111752. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2025.111752.
eCollection  2025 Feb 21.

Extracellular vesicles contribute to the beneficial effects of exercise training 
in APP/PS1 mice.

Fuller OK(1), McLennan ED(1), Egan CL(1), Perera N(1), Terry LV(1), Pyun J(1), 
de Mendonca M(1), Telles GD(1), Smeuninx B(1), Burrows EL(2), Siddiqui G(1), 
Creek DJ(1), Scott JW(1), Pearen MA(3), Fonseka P(4), Nicolazzo JA(1), 
Mathivanan S(4), Hannan AJ(2), Ramm GA(3), Whitham M(5), Febbraio MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Monash University, Melbourne, 
VIC, Australia.
(2)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(4)La Trobe Institute for Molecular Science, La Trobe University, Melbourne, 
VIC, Australia.
(5)School of Sport, Exercise & Rehabilitation Sciences, University of 
Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK.

Exercise improves cognitive function in Alzheimer's disease (AD) via mechanism 
that are not fully clear. Here, we first examined the effect of voluntary 
exercise training (VET) on energy metabolism and cognitive function in the 
APP/PS1 transgenic mouse (Tg) model of familial AD. Next, we profiled 
extracellular vesicles (EVs) and examined whether they may play a role in the 
protective effects of VET via intranasal administration of EVs, purified from 
the blood of sedentary (sEV) and/or acutely exercised (eEV) donor wild-type mice 
into APP/PS1Tg mice. We show that VET reduced resting energy expenditure (REE) 
and improved cognition in APP/PS1 Tg mice. Administration of eEV, but not sEV, 
also reduced REE, but had no effect on cognition. Taken together, these data 
show that exercise is effective intervention to improve symptoms of AD in 
APP/PS1Tg mice. In addition, eEVs mediate some of these effects, implicating EVs 
in the treatment of age-related neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2025.111752
PMCID: PMC11787611
PMID: 39898049

Conflict of interest statement: M.A.F. is a shareholder and scientific advisor 
for N-Gene Pharmaceuticals. M.A.F. is the founder and shareholder of Celesta 
Therapeutics.


65. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2025 Jan 17;15:1456948. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2024.1456948. eCollection 2024.

Therapeutic targeting of obesity-induced neuroinflammation and 
neurodegeneration.

Zeng J(#)(1)(2), Cheong LYT(#)(3), Lo CH(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Chemical Engineering, Syracuse University, 
Syracuse, NY, United States.
(2)Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Program, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, 
United States.
(3)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(4)Department of Biology, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, United States.
(#)Contributed equally

Obesity is a major modifiable risk factor leading to neuroinflammation and 
neurodegeneration. Excessive fat storage in obesity promotes the progressive 
infiltration of immune cells into adipose tissue, resulting in the release of 
pro-inflammatory factors such as cytokines and adipokines. These inflammatory 
mediators circulate through the bloodstream, propagating inflammation both in 
the periphery and in the central nervous system. Gut dysbiosis, which results in 
a leaky intestinal barrier, exacerbates inflammation and plays a significant 
role in linking obesity to the pathogenesis of neuroinflammation and 
neurodegeneration through the gut-brain/gut-brain-liver axis. Inflammatory 
states within the brain can lead to insulin resistance, mitochondrial 
dysfunction, autolysosomal dysfunction, and increased oxidative stress. These 
disruptions impair normal neuronal function and subsequently lead to cognitive 
decline and motor deficits, similar to the pathologies observed in major 
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, 
and Parkinson's disease. Understanding the underlying disease mechanisms is 
crucial for developing therapeutic strategies to address defects in these 
inflammatory and metabolic pathways. In this review, we summarize and provide 
insights into different therapeutic strategies, including methods to alter gut 
dysbiosis, lifestyle changes, dietary supplementation, as well as 
pharmacological agents derived from natural sources, that target obesity-induced 
neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2025 Zeng, Cheong and Lo.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2024.1456948
PMCID: PMC11781992
PMID: 39897964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


66. Heliyon. 2025 Jan 13;11(2):e41841. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2025.e41841. 
eCollection 2025 Jan 30.

Interplay between oxidative stress, neuroinflammatory cytokines and melatonin in 
Alzheimer's disease: Insights from cerebrospinal fluid analysis.

Artime-Naveda F(1)(2)(3), Hevia D(1)(2)(3), Alonso-Arias R(2)(3)(4), Martínez 
C(3)(5), Quirós-González I(1)(2)(3), Cernuda-Cernuda R(1)(2)(3), Alvarez-Artime 
A(1)(2)(3), Menéndez-Valle I(3)(5), Sainz RM(1)(2)(3), Mayo JC(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Morfología y Biología Celular, School of Medicine, University 
of Oviedo, Julián Clavería 6, 33006, Oviedo, Spain.
(2)Instituto Universitario de Oncología del Principado de Asturias (IUOPA), 
33006, Oviedo, Spain.
(3)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Principado de Asturias (ISPA), Avda. 
Hospital Universitario, 33011, Oviedo, Spain.
(4)Department of Immunology, Central University Hospital of Asturias (HUCA), 
Oviedo, Spain.
(5)Department of Neurology, Central University Hospital of Asturias (HUCA), 
Oviedo, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Among neurodegenerative disorders Alzheimer's disease (AD) displays 
the highest prevalence and the projected increase in its incidence will require 
new advances in early diagnosis and treatment, particularly for distinguishing 
AD from other dementias. While beta-amyloid (Aβ) and tau biomarkers are 
currently used to discriminate AD from other tauopathies and dementias, 
additional indicators could enhance patient stratification for specific dementia 
types. The present study was designed to find potential associations among the 
classic neurologic markers, Aβ, total and phospho-tau (T-tau and P-tau), with 
other biomarkers including melatonin and its oxidative-derived metabolite, 
Formyl-N-acetyl-5-methoxykynurenamine (AFMK) levels, assayed in patients' 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) taken previously for diagnostic purposes. Other 
factors previously associated with the aetiology of AD, including redox 
indicators or proinflammatory biomarkers, were also included.
METHODS: The cross-sectional study included a cohort of 148 patients showing 
signs of dementia. A group of age-matched patients without neurological 
disorders were used as controls. CSF levels of Aβ, T-tau and P-tau were assayed, 
and patients were further classified according to threshold CSF levels of the 
three markers protein following the criteria of NIA-AA.
RESULTS: Correlational and group analysis showed a positive association between 
oxidative stress and neuronal damage. TNF-α negatively correlated with CSF Aβ 
levels (amyloid plaques) while only RANTES/CCL5 correlated positively with T-tau 
and P-tau. Qualitative analysis of the proinflammatory cytokines assayed showed 
a higher detection level in Aβ-positive patients. Regarding melatonin in the 
CSF, indolamine levels did not correlate with its major oxidative-derived 
metabolite, i.e., AFMK. However, melatonin CSF levels were significantly reduced 
in AD patients but not in OT. On the contrary, AFMK showed the opposite pattern, 
with higher levels in samples from patients displaying high T-tau and P-tau 
levels. Neuroinflammation was associated with Aβ deposits (low concentration in 
CSF), while oxidative stress significantly correlated with high T-tau and P-tau 
levels. Finally, among all the parameters assayed in CSF samples from the cohort 
studied, P-tau, in combination with antioxidant capacity, offered the best ROC 
curve for the diagnostic capacity to discriminate between AD and OT, showing an 
85 % specificity.
CONCLUSION: While oxidative stress is instead associated with high T- and P-tau 
levels, higher neuroinflammatory cytokines correlate with low CSF Aβ levels. An 
intriguing lack of correlation between neuroinflammation and melatonin found in 
this study could be as a result of sample size and requires further studies with 
a larger sample size. Even though indolamine levels in CSF drop significantly in 
AD, they do not correlate with AFMK, suggesting a different kynurenine synthesis 
source. None of them appear to discriminate between AD and OT. Finally, among 
all the parameters assayed in this study, P-tau in combination with antioxidant 
capacity, offered the best ROC curve for the diagnostic ability capacity to 
discriminate between AD and OT, showing an 85 % specificity. This study holds 
the potential to significantly improve patient stratification and contribute to 
the early diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2025.e41841
PMCID: PMC11786639
PMID: 39897852

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


67. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jan 17;16:1485132. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2024.1485132.  eCollection 2024.

Alzheimer's disease diagnosis using rhythmic power changes and phase 
differences: a low-density EEG study.

Wang J(1)(2), Zhao J(1), Chen X(1)(2), Yin B(3), Li X(4)(5), Xie P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Electrical Engineering, Yanshan University, Qinhuangdao, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Intelligent Rehabilitation and Neuromodulation of Hebei 
Province, Qinhuangdao, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Hospital of Qinhuangdao, Hebei Medical 
University, Qinhuangdao, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China.
(5)Center for Collaboration and Innovation in Brain and Learning Sciences, 
Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVES: The future emergence of disease-modifying treatments for dementia 
highlights the urgent need to identify reliable and easily accessible tools for 
diagnosing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Electroencephalography (EEG) is a 
non-invasive and cost-effective technique commonly used in the study of 
neurodegenerative disorders. However, the specific alterations in EEG biomarkers 
associated with AD remain unclear when using a limited number of electrodes.
METHODS: We studied pathological characteristics of AD using low-density EEG 
data collected from 26 AD and 29 healthy controls (HC) during both eye closed 
(EC) and eye opened (EO) resting conditions. The analysis including power 
spectrum, phase lock value (PLV), and weighted lag phase index (wPLI) and 
power-to-power frequency coupling (theta/beta) analysis were applied to extract 
features in the delta, theta, alpha, and beta bands.
RESULTS: During the EC condition, the AD group exhibited decreased alpha power 
compared to HC. Additionally, both analysis of PLV and wPLI in the theta band 
indicated that the alterations in the AD brain network predominantly involved in 
the frontal region with the opposite changes. Moreover, the AD group had 
increased frequency coupling in the frontal and central regions. Surprisingly, 
no group difference was found in the EO condition. Notably, decreased theta band 
functional connectivity within the fronto-central lobe and increased frequency 
coupling in frontal region were found in AD group from EC to EO. More 
importantly, the combination of EC and EO quantitative EEG features improved the 
inter-group classification accuracy when using support vector machine (SVM) in 
older adults with AD. These findings highlight the complementary nature of EC 
and EO conditions in assessing and differentiating AD cohorts.
CONCLUSION: Our results underscore the potential of utilizing low-density EEG 
data from resting-state paradigms, combined with machine learning techniques, to 
improve the identification and classification of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Zhao, Chen, Yin, Li and Xie.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1485132
PMCID: PMC11782140
PMID: 39897456

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


68. Targets (Basel). 2024 Dec;2(4):446-469. doi: 10.3390/targets2040025. Epub
2024  Dec 4.

Repurposing FDA-Approved Drugs Against Potential Drug Targets Involved in Brain 
Inflammation Contributing to Alzheimer's Disease.

Sharo C(1), Zhang J(2), Zhai T(2), Bao J(2), Garcia-Epelboim A(2), Mamourian 
E(2), Shen L(2), Huang Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Villanova University, 
Villanova, PA 19085, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Informatics, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disease that continues to have a 
rising number of cases. While extensive research has been conducted in the last 
few decades, only a few drugs have been approved by the FDA for treatment, and 
even fewer aim to be curative rather than manage symptoms. There remains an 
urgent need for understanding disease pathogenesis, as well as identifying new 
targets for further drug discovery. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is known to stem 
from a build-up of amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques as well as tangles of tau proteins. 
Furthermore, inflammation in the brain is known to arise from the degeneration 
of tissue and the build-up of insoluble material. Therefore, there is a 
potential link between the pathology of AD and inflammation in the brain, 
especially as the disease progresses to later stages where neuronal death and 
degeneration levels are higher. Proteins that are relevant to both brain 
inflammation and AD thus make ideal potential targets for therapeutics; however, 
the proteins need to be evaluated to determine which targets would be ideal for 
potential drug therapeutic treatments, or 'druggable'. Druggability analysis was 
conducted using two structure-based methods (i.e., Drug-Like Density analysis 
and SiteMap), as well as a sequence-based approach, SPIDER. The most druggable 
targets were then evaluated using single-nuclei sequencing data for their 
clinical relevance to inflammation in AD. For each of the top five targets, 
small molecule docking was used to evaluate which FDA approved drugs were able 
to bind with the chosen proteins. The top targets included DRD2 (inhibits 
adenylyl cyclase activity), C9 (binds with C5B8 to form the membrane attack 
complex), C4b (binds with C2a to form C3 convertase), C5AR1 (GPCR that binds 
C5a), and GABA-A-R (GPCR involved in inhibiting neurotransmission). Each target 
had multiple potential inhibitors from the FDA-approved drug list with decent 
binding infinities. Among these inhibitors, two drugs were found as top 
inhibitors for more than one protein target. They are C15H14N2O2 and v316 
(Paracetamol), used to treat pain/inflammation originally for cataracts and 
relieve headaches/fever, respectively. These results provide the groundwork for 
further experimental investigation or clinical trials.

DOI: 10.3390/targets2040025
PMCID: PMC11786951
PMID: 39897171

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


69. Cereb Circ Cogn Behav. 2025 Jan 9;8:100377. doi: 10.1016/j.cccb.2025.100377. 
eCollection 2025.

The health and economic burden of brain disorders: Consequences for investment 
in diagnosis, treatment, prevention and R&D.

Li Y(1), Jönsson L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, 
BioClinicum, Akademiska Stråket, Stockholm 171 64, Sweden.

Brain disorders are prevalent across all age groups but particularly in the 
elderly, highlighting the importance of preserving brain health in ageing 
populations. There have been few previous studies to address the complete scope 
of burden of brain disorders, including direct and indirect costs as well as 
intangible costs from morbidity and mortality. We seek to illustrate the full 
health and economic impact of brain disorders by leveraging data from previous 
large-scale epidemiological and health economic studies to estimate the total 
direct, indirect and intangible cost of brain disorders in 2019. Two alternative 
methods were used to estimate indirect costs: the human capital (HC) method 
(data from the CBDE2010 study), and the willingness-to-pay (WTP) per DALY method 
(data from GBD2019). Less than 10% of the costs of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
other dementias are incurred by the health care system, while Alzheimer's 
disease and other dementias is the costliest condition using the HC approach and 
stroke is the costliest condition due to the large number of life-years lost, 
followed by AD using the WTP approach. Using per-capita GDP as a proxy for WTP, 
the indirect costs were nearly four times higher compared to the conventional HC 
approach. We found that Indirect costs of brain disorders outweigh the direct 
costs for diagnosis, treatment and care even in high-income countries with 
advanced, universally accessible systems in Europe. There is likely 
underinvestment in R&D for brain disorders, and health care systems may lack 
sufficient incentives to invest in their treatment and prevention.

© 2025 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.cccb.2025.100377
PMCID: PMC11786689
PMID: 39897094

Conflict of interest statement: We declare we have no potential competing 
interests.


70. Int J Biol Sci. 2025 Jan 13;21(3):1014-1031. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.103028. 
eCollection 2025.

Regulatory Mechanisms and Therapeutic Implications of Lysosomal Dysfunction in 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Kim Y(1), Ha TY(2)(3), Lee MS(4)(5), Chang KA(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Gachon Advanced Institute for 
Health Sciences & Technology, Gachon University, Incheon 21999, Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, Gachon University, Incheon 
21999, Korea.
(3)Neuroscience Research Institute, Gachon University, Incheon 21565, Korea.
(4)Soonchunhyang Institute of Medi-bio Science & Division of Endocrinology, 
Department of Internal Medicine & Immunology, Soonchunhyang University College 
of Medicine, Cheonan 31151, Korea.
(5)Chief Scientific Officer, LysoTech, Inc., Seoul 03766, Korea.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-beta 
(Aβ) plaques, neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) formed from hyperphosphorylated 
Tau, and widespread neuronal loss. The autophagy-lysosomal pathway plays a 
crucial role in maintaining cellular homeostasis by degrading and recycling of 
damaged organelles and aggregate amyloid proteins implicated in AD. Lysosomes 
are key effectors of autophagic process, responsible for the breakdown of a 
variety of damaged organelles and aggregate or dysfunctional proteins. This 
review examines the role of lysosomal dysfunction in AD pathophysiology, 
focusing on genetic factors, acidification abnormalities, and other contributing 
factors. We also explore the involvement of lysosomal dysfunction of microglia 
in AD pathology, and cover the role of lysosomal stress response (LSR) in 
cellular response to neuronal injury associated with AD. Furthermore, we discuss 
potential therapeutic strategies targeting lysosomal proteolysis pathway and 
addressing lysosomal dysfunction for AD treatment, including the 
pharmacologically activating lysosomal activity, regulating TFEB, and 
considering other emerging approaches.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.103028
PMCID: PMC11781173
PMID: 39897039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


71. IBRO Neurosci Rep. 2025 Jan 10;18:163-170. doi: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.01.008.
 eCollection 2025 Jun.

Neuroprotective effects of empagliflozin against scopolamine-induced memory 
impairment and oxidative stress in rats.

Anoush M(1)(2), Taghaddosi N(2), Bokaei Hosseini Z(2), Rahmati F(2), Bijani 
S(1)(2), Kalantari-Hesari A(3), Hosseini MJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Zanjan Applied Pharmacology Research Center, Health and Metabolic Diseases 
Research Institute, Zanjan University of Medical Sciences, Zanjan, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Pharmacy, Zanjan 
University of Medical Sciences, Zanjan, Iran.
(3)Department of Basic Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Bu-Ali Sina 
University, Hamedan, Iran.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common age-related neurodegenerative 
disorders. The main medicinal theory for the management of AD belongs to the 
acetyl-cholinesterase-inhibition pathway and NMDA antagonism. Recent 
investigation proposed memory improvement by sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 
(SGLT2) inhibitors which indicated to improve glycemic control in adults with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus. According to the lack of sufficient evidence about the 
efficacy of empagliflozin (EMPA) for memory improvement, in comparison with 
donepezil (DON), the present research was carried out in order to investigate 
this hypothesis towards scopolamine-induced neurotoxicity on experimental male 
Wistar rats. The animals divided into two sets, each included 4 groups: The 
first set of Healthy animals [Control, EMPA (4 or 10 mg/kg), DON (1 mg/kg)]. The 
second set of rat Alzheimer model, which received 2 mg/kg Scopolamine by 
intraperitoneal route for 10 days followed by other treatments [AD, AD+ EMPA (4 
or 10 mg/kg) and AD+DON]. Normal rats and AD rats, with each group receiving 
different substances for 8 consecutive days and 24 h after the accomplishment of 
the drug administrations, the memory functions assessed through Morris water 
maze (MWM) paradigm. This task was followed by decapitation of rats in order to 
evaluate the biochemical oxidative stress parameters in brain tissue. Our data 
indicated that EMPA significantly improved animals' performance in the 
behavioral test with a significant decrease in oxidative stress and antioxidant 
imbalance. In addition, EMPA (4 mg/kg) significantly reduced both cellular 
malondialdehyde and protein carbonyl content while conversely increased the 
total reduced glutathione content. Besides, the levels of total as well as 
endogenous antioxidants in the ferric reducing antioxidant power assay reported 
to be augmented. It seems that EMPA significantly improved both cellular 
biochemical aspects and memory performance in animal models in accordance with 
histopathological assessments. Conclusively, 4 mg/kg EMPA demonstrated better 
results in all aspects that were evaluated during this research.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.01.008
PMCID: PMC11786754
PMID: 39896712

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


72. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jan 22:2025.01.20.633414. doi: 
10.1101/2025.01.20.633414.

Muscle Cathepsin B treatment improves behavioral and neurogenic deficits in a 
mouse model of Alzheimer's Disease.

Pinto A(1), Haytural H(2), Loss CM(1), Alvarez C(1), Ertas A(1), Curtis O(1), 
Williams AR(1), Murphy G(1), Salleng K(1), Gografe S(1), Altıntaş A(2), Kafri 
T(3), Barres R(2)(4), Deshmukh AS(2), van Praag H(1).

Author information:
(1)Stiles-Nicholson Brain Institute, Charles E. Schmidt College of Medicine, 
Florida Atlantic University, Jupiter, FL 33458, USA.
(2)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Gene Therapy Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Thurston-Bowles, NC 27599, USA.
(4)Institut de Pharmacologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Université Côte d'Azur & 
Centre National pour la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), 06560 Valbonne, France.

Muscle secretes factors during exercise that enhance cognition. Myokine 
Cathepsin B (Ctsb) is linked to memory function, but its role in 
neurodegenerative disease is unclear. Here we show that AAV-vector-mediated Ctsb 
overexpression in skeletal muscle in an Alzheimer's Disease (AD) mouse model 
(APP/PS1), improves motor coordination, memory function and adult hippocampal 
neurogenesis, while plaque pathology and neuroinflammation remain unchanged. 
Additionally, in AD mice, Ctsb treatment modifies hippocampal, muscle and plasma 
proteomic profiles to resemble that of wildtype controls. Conversely, in 
wildtype mice, Ctsb expression causes memory deficits and results in protein 
profiles across tissues that are comparable to AD control mice. In AD mice, Ctsb 
treatment increases the abundance of hippocampal proteins involved in mRNA 
metabolism and protein synthesis, including those relevant to adult hippocampal 
neurogenesis and memory function. Furthermore, Ctsb treatment enhances plasma 
metabolic and mitochondrial processes, and reduces inflammatory responses. In 
muscle, Ctsb expression elevates protein translation in AD mice, whereas in 
wildtype mice mitochondrial proteins decrease. Overall, the biological changes 
in the treatment groups are consistent with effects on memory function. Thus, 
skeletal muscle Ctsb application has potential as an AD therapeutic 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.01.20.633414
PMCID: PMC11785056
PMID: 39896474


73. PeerJ Comput Sci. 2024 Dec 13;10:e2590. doi: 10.7717/peerj-cs.2590.
eCollection  2024.

Multimodal Alzheimer's disease classification through ensemble deep random 
vector functional link neural network.

Henríquez PA(1), Araya N(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Administración, Universidad Diego Portales, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Escuela de Informática y Telecomunicaciones, Universidad Diego Portales, 
Santiago, Chile.
(3)Department of Computer Science, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 
Santiago, Chile.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a condition with a complex pathogenesis, sometimes 
hereditary, characterized by the loss of neurons and synapses, along with the 
presence of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Early detection, 
particularly among individuals at high risk, is critical for effective treatment 
or prevention, yet remains challenging due to data variability and 
incompleteness. Most current research relies on single data modalities, 
potentially limiting comprehensive staging of AD. This study addresses this gap 
by integrating multimodal data-including clinical and genetic information-using 
deep learning (DL) models, with a specific focus on random vector functional 
link (RVFL) networks, to enhance early detection of AD and mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI). Our findings demonstrate that ensemble deep RVFL (edRVFL) 
models, when combined with effective data imputation techniques such as 
Winsorized-mean (Wmean), achieve superior performance in detecting early stages 
of AD. Notably, the edRVFL model achieved an accuracy of 98.8%, precision of 
98.3%, recall of 98.4%, and F1-score of 98.2%, outperforming traditional machine 
learning models like support vector machines, random forests, and decision 
trees. This underscores the importance of integrating advanced imputation 
strategies and deep learning techniques in AD diagnosis.

© 2024 Henríquez and Araya.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.2590
PMCID: PMC11784893
PMID: 39896355

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


74. Age Ageing. 2025 Feb 2;54(2):afae282. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afae282.

Impact of in-hospital medication changes on clinical outcomes in older 
inpatients: the journey and destination.

Masnoon N(1), Lo S(1), Gnjidic D(2), McLachlan AJ(2), Blyth FM(3), Burke R(4), 
Capuano AW(5)(6), Hilmer SN(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Kolling Institute, Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney 
and Northern Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)Sydney Pharmacy School, Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Sydney School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine and Health, The 
University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(5)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(6)T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(7)Departments of Clinical Pharmacology and Aged Care, Royal North Shore 
Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Medication review is integral in the pharmacological management of 
older inpatients.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the association of in-hospital medication changes with 
28-day postdischarge clinical outcomes.
METHODS: Retrospective cohort of 2000 inpatients aged ≥75 years. Medication 
changes included the number of increases (medications started or dose-increased) 
and decreases (medications stopped or dose-decreased) for (i) all medications, 
(ii) Drug Burden Index (DBI)-contributing medications and (iii) Beers Criteria 
2015 medications (potentially inappropriate medications, PIMs). Changes also 
included differences in (i) the number of medications, (ii) the number of PIMs 
and (iii) DBI score, at discharge versus admission. Associations with clinical 
outcomes (28-day ED visit, readmission and mortality) were ascertained using 
logistic regression, adjusted for age, gender and principal diagnosis. For 
mortality, sensitivity analysis excluded end-of-life patients due to higher 
death risk. Patients were stratified into : (i) ≤4, (ii) 5-9 and (iii) ≥10 
discharge medications.
RESULTS: The mean age was 86 years (SD = 5.8), with 59.1% female. Medication 
changes reduced ED visits and readmission risk for patients prescribed five to 
nine discharge medications, with no associations in patients prescribed ≤4 
and ≥ 10 medications. In the five to nine medications group, decreasing PIMs 
reduced risks of ED visit (adjusted odds ratio, aOR 0.55, 95% CI 0.34-0.91, 
P = .02) and readmission (aOR 0.62, 95% CI 0.38-0.99, P = .04). Decreasing 
DBI-contributing medications reduced readmission risk (aOR 0.71, 95% CI 
0.51-0.99, P = .04). Differences in PIMs reduced ED visit risk (aOR 0.65, 95% CI 
0.43-0.99, P = .04). There were no associations with mortality in sensitivity 
analyses in all groups.
DISCUSSION: Medication changes were associated with reduced ED visits and 
readmission for patients prescribed five to nine discharge medications.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afae282
PMCID: PMC11788564
PMID: 39895509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


75. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2025 Mar;25(3):374-379. doi: 10.1111/ggi.15075. Epub
2025  Feb 2.

Correlation between serum YKL-40 and VILIP 1 levels and brain volume in dementia 
patients.

Tezen D(1), Koçhan Kızılkılıç E(2), Akkan Suzan A(1), Öz A(3), Gulmammadli N(4), 
Arslan S(3), Kızılkılıç O(3), Konukoğlu D(4), Demirbilek V(1), Bozluolçay M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Istanbul University-Cerrahpasa, Cerrahpasa Medical 
Faculty, Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Health Sciences, Prof. Dr. Cemil 
Taşcıoğlu City Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Department of Radiology, Istanbul University, Cerrahpasa, Cerrahpasa Medical 
Faculty, Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Cerrahpasa Faculty of Medicine, İstanbul 
University-Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, Turkey.
(5)Department of Neurology, Biruni University, Istanbul, Turkey.

AIM: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic, progressive cognitive disorder 
characterized by prominent episodic memory impairment. The contribution of 
neuronal damage and neuroinflammation to this process has been investigated by 
measuring various substances. Two of the most promising substances in serum and 
plasma studies are visinin-like protein 1 (VILIP-1) and tyrosine (Y), lysine 
(K), leucine (L)-40 (YKL-40). These markers may lead to early diagnosis and new 
treatment options.
METHODS: Serum VILIP-1 and YKL-40 levels were analyzed in 33 probable AD 
patients and 23 healthy controls. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was 
used for volumetric measurements. The results were compared with the control 
group and then the correlation analyze between markers and volumetric 
measurements of the patient group was achieved.
RESULTS: The right and left hippocampus and amygdala, left medial temporal, 
right rostral anterior cingulate, total brain, cortex, white matter, gray 
matter, subcortical gray matter, right and left total cortex volumes of the 
probable AD group were significantly lower than those of the control group. In 
the correlation analysis, the YKL-40 level and left posterior cingulate volume 
and the VILIP-1 level and left amygdala volume were negatively correlated.
CONCLUSIONS: In AD, there is atrophy of the limbic structures, cortex, and white 
matter. While the relationship between these regions and neurodegenerative 
markers remains unclear, our findings highlight a notable correlation between 
YKL-40 and VILIP-1 levels and the left amygdala and left posterior cingulate 
cortex, respectively. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2025; 25: 374-379.

© 2025 Japan Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ggi.15075
PMID: 39895108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Mar;104(1):14-31. doi: 10.1177/13872877241313397. Epub
 2025 Feb 2.

MicroRNA-based recent research developments in Alzheimer's disease.

Ramirez-Gomez J(1), Dalal S(1), Devara D(1), Sharma B(1), Rodarte D(1), Kumar 
S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center of Emphasis in Neuroscience, Department of Molecular and Translational 
Medicine, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center, El Paso, TX, USA.
(2)L. Frederick Francis Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Texas Tech 
University Health Sciences Center, El Paso, TX, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder that is 
characterized by memory and physical impairment in aged individuals. microRNAs 
(miRNAs) are small, single-stranded noncoding RNAs that induce translational 
repression by binding to the 3' UTR of a target mRNA. miRNAs play a crucial role 
in neurological activity by mediating cellular proliferation, synaptic 
plasticity, apoptosis and more. Ongoing research in patents and clinical trials 
have called attention to promising miRNAs as biomarkers and therapeutics in AD. 
Recent research has shown that miRNAs are aberrantly expressed in AD brain, 
blood, cerebrospinal fluid and serum. Attenuated miRNA expressions have 
diagnostic potential in AD by interacting with amyloid-β synthesis, 
phosphorylated tau, and neurofibrillary tangles. In this study, miRNA-29a, 
miRNA-125b, miRNA-34a, miRNA-146a, and miRNA-155 have shown promise as potential 
biomarker candidates for AD. Improving cognitive symptoms can be traced to 
restoring the endogenous miRNA activity by synthesizing miRNA mimics and miRNA 
antisense oligonucleotides. miRNA-483-5p, miRNA-188-5p, miRNA-219, miRNA135a/5p, 
miRNA-23/23b-3p, miRNA-124, and miRNA-455-3p are growing therapeutics for AD. 
However, miRNA-based therapeutics struggle outside of preclinical testing. 
miRNA-107, miRNA-206, miRNA-30/7, and miRNA-142-3p face bottlenecks in clinical 
trials due to a lack of experimental design, transparency and volunteer size. 
Patenting recent miRNA-based developments demonstrates the commitment in 
identifying a new biomarker and/or therapeutic for AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241313397
PMID: 39894921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


77. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Mar;104(1):3-13. doi: 10.1177/13872877241313223. Epub 
2025 Feb 2.

Microglial polarization in Alzheimer's disease: Mechanisms, implications, and 
therapeutic opportunities.

Yang X(1), Wang J(1), Jia X(2), Yang Y(1), Fang Y(1), Ying X(1), Li H(1), Zhang 
M(1), Wei J(1), Pan Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Medicine, Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine, 
Xianyang, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Affifiliated Xi'an Central Hospital of Xi'an 
Jiaotong University College of Medicine, Xi'an, Shaanxi, PR China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the 
accumulation of amyloid-β plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and chronic 
neuroinflammation. Microglial cells, the resident immune cells in the central 
nervous system, play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of AD. Microglia can 
undergo polarization, shifting between pro-inflammatory (M1) and 
anti-inflammatory (M2) phenotypes in response to different stimuli. 
Dysregulation of microglial polarization towards the pro-inflammatory phenotype 
leads to the release of inflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress, and synaptic 
dysfunction. These processes contribute to neuronal damage and cognitive decline 
in AD. However, several challenges remain in this field. The complex molecular 
mechanisms governing microglial polarization in AD need to be further 
elucidated. In this review, we discuss the mechanisms underlying microglial 
polarization in AD and its implications in disease progression.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241313223
PMID: 39894910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


78. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Feb;103(4):1180-1190. doi: 10.1177/13872877241313031. 
Epub 2025 Feb 2.

Iron chelation by oral deferoxamine treatment decreased brain iron and iron 
signaling proteins.

Thorwald MA(1), Sta Maria NS(2)(3), Chakhoyan A(2)(3), O'Day PA(4), Jacobs 
RE(2)(3), Zlokovic B(2)(3), Finch CE(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience, Keck School of Medicine, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)Life and Environmental Sciences Department, University of California, Merced, 
CA, USA.
(5)Dornsife College, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Aug 17:2024.08.14.607970. doi: 10.1101/2024.08.14.607970.

BACKGROUND: Deferoxamine (DFO) and other iron chelators are clinically used for 
cancer and stroke. They may also be useful for Alzheimer's disease (AD) to 
diminish iron from microbleeds. DFO may also stimulate antioxidant membrane 
repair which is impaired during AD. DFO and other chelators do enter the brain 
despite some contrary reports.
OBJECTIVE: Low dose, oral DFO was given in lab chow to wildtype (WT) C57BL/6 
mice to evaluate potential impact on iron levels, iron-signaling and storage 
proteins, and amyloid-β protein precursor (AβPP) and processing enzymes. Young 
WT mice do not have microbleeds or disrupted blood-brain barrier of AD mice.
METHODS: Iron was measured by MRI and chemically after two weeks of dietary DFO. 
Cerebral cortex was examined for changes in iron metabolism, antioxidant 
signaling, and AβPP processing by western blot.
RESULTS: DFO decreased brain iron 18% (p < 0.01) estimated by R2 MRI and 
decreased seven major proteins that mediate iron metabolism by at least 25%. The 
iron storage proteins ferritin light and heavy chain decreased by at least 30%. 
AβPP and secretase enzymes also decreased by 30%.
CONCLUSIONS: WT mice respond to DFO with decreased AβPP, amyloid processing 
enzymes, and antioxidant repair. Potential DFO treatment for early-stage AD by 
DFO should consider the benefits of lowered AβPP and secretase enzymes.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241313031
PMID: 39894909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


79. Signal Transduct Target Ther. 2025 Feb 3;10(1):31. doi: 
10.1038/s41392-024-02071-0.

Homeostasis and metabolism of iron and other metal ions in neurodegenerative 
diseases.

Chen L(1)(2)(3), Shen Q(1)(2)(3), Liu Y(1)(2)(3), Zhang Y(1)(2)(3), Sun 
L(1)(2)(3), Ma X(1)(2)(3), Song N(1)(2)(3), Xie J(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Brain Science and Disease, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, 
Shandong, China.
(2)Shandong Provincial Collaborative Innovation Center for Neurodegenerative 
Disorders, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, Shandong, China.
(3)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Pathogenesis and Prevention of 
Neurological Disorders, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, Shandong, China.
(4)Institute of Brain Science and Disease, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, 
Shandong, China. jxiaxie@public.qd.sd.cn.
(5)Shandong Provincial Collaborative Innovation Center for Neurodegenerative 
Disorders, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, Shandong, China. 
jxiaxie@public.qd.sd.cn.
(6)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Pathogenesis and Prevention of 
Neurological Disorders, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, Shandong, China. 
jxiaxie@public.qd.sd.cn.

As essential micronutrients, metal ions such as iron, manganese, copper, and 
zinc, are required for a wide range of physiological processes in the brain. 
However, an imbalance in metal ions, whether excessive or insufficient, is 
detrimental and can contribute to neuronal death through oxidative stress, 
ferroptosis, cuproptosis, cell senescence, or neuroinflammation. These processes 
have been found to be involved in the pathological mechanisms of 
neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, the research history and milestone 
events of studying metal ions, including iron, manganese, copper, and zinc in 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Huntington's disease (HD), will 
be introduced. Then, the upstream regulators, downstream effector, and crosstalk 
of mental ions under both physiologic and pathologic conditions will be 
summarized. Finally, the therapeutic effects of metal ion chelators, such as 
clioquinol, quercetin, curcumin, coumarin, and their derivatives for the 
treatment of neurodegenerative diseases will be discussed. Additionally, the 
promising results and limitations observed in clinical trials of these metal ion 
chelators will also be addressed. This review will not only provide a 
comprehensive understanding of the role of metal ions in disease development but 
also offer perspectives on their modulation for the prevention or treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41392-024-02071-0
PMCID: PMC11788444
PMID: 39894843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


80. Dis Mon. 2025 May;71(5):101863. doi: 10.1016/j.disamonth.2025.101863. Epub
2025  Feb 1.

Atypical Alzheimer's dementia: Addressing the subtypes, epidemiology, atypical 
presentations, diagnostic biomarkers, and treatment updates.

Vora N(1), Patel P(2), Marsool MDM(3), Marsool ADM(3), Sunasra R(4), Ladani 
P(5), Pati S(6), Khoont D(7), Prajjwal P(8), Ranjan R(8).

Author information:
(1)M.B.B.S., Internal Medicine, B. J. Medical College, Ahmedabad, India. 
Electronic address: neelv56@gmail.com.
(2)M.B.B.S., Internal Medicine, Pramukhswami Medical College, Karamsad, India.
(3)Medical Student, University of Baghdad/Al-Kindy College of Medicine, Baghdad, 
Iraq.
(4)M.B.B.S., Hinduhriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Medical College, Mumbai, 
India.
(5)M.B.B.S., Internal Medicine, Seth G.S. Medical College, Mumbai, India.
(6)Medical Student, St George's University, School of Medicine, Grenada.
(7)M.B.B.S., Internal Medicine, Narendra Modi Medical College, Ahmedabad, India.
(8)M.B.B.S., Neurology, Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College, Pune, India.

Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that primarily 
affects the elderly population; and is characterized by the gradual loss of 
memory, cognition, and ability to carry out daily activities. However, a growing 
body of research indicates that there exists a subtype of Alzheimer's disease 
known as Atypical Alzheimer's disease. Atypical Alzheimer's disease is a rare 
form of dementia that differs from the typical presentation of Alzheimer's 
disease, such as variations in the age of onset, distribution of brain 
pathology, and clinical symptoms. The patients affected have a younger age of 
onset and have predominantly visual, language, executive function, motor, and 
behavioral dysfunction. The diagnosis requires a comprehensive neurological 
evaluation with specific attention to cognitive and behavioral changes while 
ruling out other potential causes of dementia. Emerging biomarkers including CSF 
profiles, amyloid and tau PET imaging, and advanced neuroimaging techniques 
offer promising avenues for improving diagnostic accuracy and understanding 
disease mechanisms. In this article, we focus on atypical presentations seen in 
the posterior cortical variant, frontal variant, progressive aphasic variant, 
corticobasal syndrome and look at the specific biomarkers used in the diagnosis 
of each variant along with focusing on the treatment of the disease. We also aim 
to provide an understanding of Atypical Alzheimer's disease, its clinical 
features, the biomarkers helping in diagnosing the disease, the current 
treatment guidelines, and the current scientific advancements in the field.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.disamonth.2025.101863
PMID: 39894694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest, financial or otherwise.


81. Biol Pharm Bull. 2025;48(1):75-79. doi: 10.1248/bpb.b24-00773.

Preventive Effects of Psoraleae Semen Extracts on Cognitive Dysfunction in 
Alzheimer's Disease Model App(NL-P-F) Mice.

Hiramatsu G(1), Mizutani R(1), Toume K(2)(3), Inada Y(1), Sawahata M(1), Uta 
D(1), Komatsu K(2), Kume T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Pharmacology, Graduate School of Medicine and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Toyama, 2630 Sugitani, Toyama 930-0194, 
Japan.
(2)Institute of Natural Medicine, University of Toyama, 2630 Sugitani, Toyama 
930-0194, Japan.
(3)Department of Natural Medicine, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Doshisha 
Women's College of Liberal Arts, Kodo, Kyotanabe, Kyoto 610-0395, Japan.

Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation accompanied by microglial activation are 
increased in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and contribute to the pathogenesis of AD. 
Nuclear factor erythroid-derived 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a master 
transcription factor that acts as an endogenous defense mechanism against 
oxidative stress and inflammation and is a potential target for preventing AD. 
Psoraleae Semen (PS) reportedly has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. 
This study aimed to examine the effects of PS extract (PSE) on Nrf2 activation 
and prevention of cognitive dysfunction in AppNL-P-F AD model mice. The effects 
of PSE on antioxidant response element (ARE) activity and cytoprotection in PC12 
cells and on microglial activation in BV-2 cells were evaluated. PSE showed high 
ARE activity and prevented 6-hydroxydopamine-induced cytotoxicity in PC12 cells. 
Moreover, PSE suppressed lipopolysaccharide-induced nitric oxide production in 
BV-2 cells. Oral administration of PSE prevented cognitive dysfunction in 
AppNL-P-F mice without affecting motor function. Our results support that PSE 
can contribute to the development of new preventive and therapeutic agents for 
AD focusing on Nrf2 activation.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.b24-00773
PMID: 39894558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. BMJ Open. 2025 Feb 2;15(1):e086353. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-086353.

Exploring how PRIME-Parkinson care is implemented and whether, how and why it 
produces change, for who and under what conditions: a protocol for an embedded 
process evaluation within the PRIME-UK randomised controlled trial.

Lloyd K(1), Tenison E(2)(3), Smith S(2), Lithander F(4), Kidger J(5), Brant 
H(5)(6), Redwood S(5)(6), Ben-Shlomo Y(2), Henderson EJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Ageing and Movement Research Group, Population Health Sciences, University of 
Bristol, Bristol, UK katie.lloyd@bristol.ac.uk.
(2)Ageing and Movement Research Group, Population Health Sciences, University of 
Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(3)Older People's Unit, Royal United Hospital Bath NHS Trust, Bath, UK.
(4)Liggins Institute, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(5)Population Health Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(6)NIHR ARC West, Bristol, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The PRIME-UK randomised controlled trial (RCT) aims to establish 
whether a model of care that seeks to be proactive, integrated and empower 
participants, caregivers and healthcare professionals can improve outcomes in 
people with parkinsonism. Given that this intervention is novel and complex, 
understanding whether and how the intervention will be acceptable, 
implementable, cost-effective and scalable across contexts are key questions 
beyond that of whether 'it works'. We describe an embedded process evaluation to 
answer these questions, which aims to support interpretation of the trial 
results, refinement of the intervention and support future scaling of the 
PRIME-Parkinson model of care.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A mixed-methods approach will be used to collect data 
across four process evaluation domains: implementation, mechanism of change, 
acceptability and context. Quantitative data will be collected prospectively 
from all participants and analysed descriptively with exploratory tests of 
relationships as power allows. Qualitative data will be collected through 
semistructured interviews with a purposively sampled subpopulation of 
participants, caregivers and staff members as well as case studies where 
relevant. Interview transcripts will be analysed thematically using interpretive 
qualitative analysis. Synthesis of quantitative and qualitative data will also 
be performed to draw conclusions.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The quantitative data will be collected as part of the 
main PRIME-UK RCT which was been granted NHS REC approval (21/LO/0387) on 27 
July 2021. The qualitative data will be collected as part of a substudy, 
'PRIME-Qual', which was granted NHS REC approval (21/LO/0388) on 14 July 2021. 
The mixed-methods process evaluation will be published after the conclusion of 
the trial in addition to the main trial findings.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT05127057.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-086353
PMCID: PMC11792278
PMID: 39894518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: KL is in receipt of PhD 
fellowship funding from The Gatsby Foundation and funding from Parkinson’s UK. 
ET is funded by a National Institute for Health and Care Research Academic 
Clinical Lectureship and has received a speaker honorarium from the Neurology 
Academy. HB and SR are partly funded by National Institute for Health and Care 
Research Applied Research Collaboration West (NIHR ARC West) and The Gatsby 
Foundation. EJH is HEFCE funded by University of Bristol for her academic work 
and has received research funding from the National Institute of Health Research 
(NIHR), The British Geriatrics Society, The Gatsby Foundation, The Alzheimer’s 
Society, Royal Osteoporosis Society, The Dunhill Society, Parkinson's UK. She 
has received travel support, honoraria and/or sat on advisory boards for Kyowa 
Kirin; Abbvie; Luye; the CME institute, Ever, Simbec Orion, the Neurology 
Academy and Bial. YB-S is partly funded by National Institute for Health and 
Care Research Applied Research Collaboration West (NIHR ARC West) and University 
of Bristol and has received funding from Parkinson’s UK, Royal Osteoporosis 
Society, MRC, HQIP, Templeton Foundation, Versus Arthritis, Wellcome Trust, 
National Institute of Health Research, Gatsby Foundation. JK and SS have no 
conflicts of interest. FL is funded by the High Value Nutrition National Science 
Challenge, New Zealand, Health Research Council, New Zealand and the University 
of Auckland, New Zealand. This research was supported by the National Institute 
for Health and Care Research Applied Research Collaboration West (NIHR ARC 
West).


83. Neurobiol Dis. 2025 Mar;206:106826. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106826. Epub 2025
 Feb 1.

CRISPR-based epigenetic editing of Gad1 improves synaptic inhibition and 
cognitive behavior in a Tauopathy mouse model.

Wan L(1), Zhong P(1), Li P(1), Ren Y(1), Wang W(1), Yu M(1), Feng HY(1), Yan 
Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Jacobs School of Medicine and 
Biomedical Sciences, State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY 14214, 
USA.
(2)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Jacobs School of Medicine and 
Biomedical Sciences, State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY 14214, 
USA. Electronic address: zhenyan@buffalo.edu.

GABAergic signaling in the brain plays a key role in regulating synaptic 
transmission, neuronal excitability, and cognitive processes. Large-scale 
sequencing has revealed the diminished expression of GABA-related genes in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), however, it is largely unclear about the epigenetic 
mechanisms that dysregulate the transcription of these genes in AD. We confirmed 
that GABA synthesizing enzymes, GAD1 and GAD2, were significantly downregulated 
in prefrontal cortex (PFC) of AD human postmortem tissues. A tauopathy mouse 
model also had the significantly reduced expression of GABA-related genes, as 
well as the diminished GABAergic synaptic transmission in PFC pyramidal neurons. 
To elevate endogenous Gad1 levels, we used the CRISPR/Cas9-based epigenome 
editing technology to recruit histone acetyltransferase p300 to Gad1. Cells 
transfected with a fusion protein consisting of the nuclease-null dCas9 protein 
and the catalytic core of p300 (dCas9p300), as well as a guide RNA targeting 
Gad1 promoter (gRNAGad1), had significantly increased Gad1 mRNA expression and 
histone acetylation at Gad1 promoter. Furthermore, the tauopathy mouse model 
with PFC injection of dCas9p300 and gRNAGad1 lentiviruses had significantly 
elevated GABAergic synaptic currents and improved spatial memory. These results 
have provided an epigenetic editing-based gene-targeting strategy to restore 
synaptic inhibition and cognitive function in AD and related disorders.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106826
PMID: 39894446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
report no competing financial or other interests.


84. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2025 Feb;169:106032. doi: 
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2025.106032. Epub 2025 Jan 31.

Shared molecular signature in Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia: A 
systematic review of the reelin signaling pathway.

Valderrama-Mantilla AI(1), Martín-Cuevas C(2), Gómez-Garrido A(3), 
Morente-Montilla C(4), Crespo-Facorro B(5), García-Cerro S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Seville, Manuel 
Siurot AV, Seville 41013, Spain. Electronic address: anavalderrama311@gmail.com.
(2)Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla (IBiS)/University Hospital Virgen del 
Rocío/CSIC/University of Sevilla, Manuel Siurot AV, Seville 41013, Spain; 
Spanish Network for Research in Mental Health (CIBERSAM, ISCIII), Monforte de 
Lemos AV, 3-5, Madrid 28029, Spain. Electronic address: cmartinc-ibis@us.es.
(3)Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla (IBiS)/University Hospital Virgen del 
Rocío/CSIC/University of Sevilla, Manuel Siurot AV, Seville 41013, Spain; 
Spanish Network for Research in Mental Health (CIBERSAM, ISCIII), Monforte de 
Lemos AV, 3-5, Madrid 28029, Spain. Electronic address: agarrido-ibis@us.es.
(4)Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla (IBiS)/University Hospital Virgen del 
Rocío/CSIC/University of Sevilla, Manuel Siurot AV, Seville 41013, Spain. 
Electronic address: crismm257@gmail.com.
(5)Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla (IBiS)/University Hospital Virgen del 
Rocío/CSIC/University of Sevilla, Manuel Siurot AV, Seville 41013, Spain; 
Spanish Network for Research in Mental Health (CIBERSAM, ISCIII), Monforte de 
Lemos AV, 3-5, Madrid 28029, Spain; Department of Psychiatry, School of 
Medicine, University of Seville, Manuel Siurot AV, Seville 41013, Spain. 
Electronic address: benedicto.crespo.sspa@juntadeandalucia.es.
(6)Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla (IBiS)/University Hospital Virgen del 
Rocío/CSIC/University of Sevilla, Manuel Siurot AV, Seville 41013, Spain; 
Spanish Network for Research in Mental Health (CIBERSAM, ISCIII), Monforte de 
Lemos AV, 3-5, Madrid 28029, Spain. Electronic address: sgarciac-ibis@us.es.

The Reelin signaling pathway, particularly the RELN-APOER2-DAB1 complex, has 
emerged as a key contributor to the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
and Schizophrenia (SZ). Despite being distinct clinical conditions, these 
disorders exhibit similar patterns of cognitive decline, including early 
disruptions in synaptic function and memory impairments. Notably, individuals 
with SZ have a 2-4 fold increased risk of developing AD or other dementias, 
highlighting potential shared molecular mechanisms, and positioning Reelin as a 
pivotal link between them. This systematic review explores the role of Reelin 
and its signaling components across these disorders. In AD, Reelin disruption 
correlates with hallmark features such as Tau hyperphosphorylation, amyloid-beta 
accumulation, and cognitive deficits. In SZ, alterations in Reelin signaling, 
including epigenetic modifications affecting RELN expression, are linked to 
disruptions in neuronal development and synaptic plasticity, particularly in the 
parietal and prefrontal cortices. Additionally, genomic studies reveal specific 
RELN variants and allelic imbalances that may influence disease severity and 
treatment response in SZ, suggesting RELN's role as a potential biomarker for 
therapeutic outcomes. Region-specific Reelin alterations in both AD and SZ 
suggest differing impacts yet underscore a potential common molecular origin. 
Our findings highlight the Reelin pathway as a molecular convergence point, 
warranting further investigation as a therapeutic and diagnostic target for AD, 
SZ, and potentially other neuropsychiatric disorders. The interplay between 
genetic and epigenetic regulation of RELN may provide novel insights into 
neurodegeneration, with implications for personalized intervention strategies in 
AD and SZ.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2025.106032
PMID: 39894421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest No potential 
competing interest is reported by the authors.


85. J Neurosci Methods. 2025 Apr;416:110377. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2025.110377.
 Epub 2025 Jan 31.

Integrating neuroscience and artificial intelligence: EEG analysis using 
ensemble learning for diagnosis Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia.

Hachamnia AH(1), Mehri A(2), Jamaati M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Babol Noshirvani University of 
Technology, Babol, Iran.
(2)Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Babol Noshirvani University of 
Technology, Babol, Iran. Electronic address: alimehri@nit.ac.ir.
(3)Faculty of Computer Engineering, Iranian eUniversity, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are both 
progressive neurological disorders that affect the elderly. Distinguishing 
between individuals suffering from these two diseases in the early stages can be 
quite challenging, and due to their different treatments, it has become an 
important problem. Machine learning (ML) algorithms can be helpful in this 
matter due to their high ability to manage large data and deliver high-quality 
diagnostic results.
NEW METHOD: In this research, we integrate multiple ML algorithms into 10 
ensemble learning techniques, utilizing 7 distinct features: 3 from the time 
domain and 4 from the frequency domain.
RESULTS: They are used to achieve a higher diagnostic accuracy level in binary 
and multiclass classification of samples from electroencephalography (EEG) 
signals of elderly patients with AD, FTD, and healthy age-matching controls 
(CN), during the eye resting state.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHODS: The best results in carrying out binary AD/CN, 
FTD/CN, and AD/FTD classifications with significant accuracy>95% have been 
obtained with the help of the light gradient boosting machine (LGBM) method 
applying the wavelet transform feature.
CONCLUSION: This combination (LGBM&wavelet) also displays the best performance 
in the AD/FTD/CN multiclass classification process with accuracy>93%.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2025.110377
PMID: 39894256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


86. Patient Educ Couns. 2025 May;134:108668. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2025.108668. Epub
 2025 Jan 27.

Needs expressed by people with subjective cognitive decline during amyloid PET 
disclosure consultations: An observational study.

de Rijke TJ(1), Hendriksen HMA(2), Fruijtier AD(2), van Harten AC(3), van 
Leeuwenstijn-Koopman MSSA(3), van de Giessen EM(4), Trieu C(3), Visser D(5), 
Street RL Jr(6), van der Flier WM(7), Smets EMA(8), Visser LNC(9).

Author information:
(1)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Department of Medical 
Psychology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health Research 
Institute, Quality of Care, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health 
Research Institute, Personalised Medicine, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Alzheimer 
Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Department of Neurology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
t.j.derijke@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Department of Medical 
Psychology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam 
UMC location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Amsterdam UMC location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Radiology 
& Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, Brain 
Imaging, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(5)Amsterdam UMC location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Radiology 
& Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Communication and Journalism, Texas A&M University, College 
Station, USA; Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, USA.
(7)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam UMC 
location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(8)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Department of Medical 
Psychology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health Research 
Institute, Quality of Care, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(9)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Department of Medical 
Psychology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health Research 
Institute, Quality of Care, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health 
Research Institute, Personalised Medicine, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Alzheimer 
Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Department of Neurology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Division of Clinical Geriatrics, 
Center for Alzheimer Research, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: We disclosed amyloid PET results to people with subjective cognitive 
decline (SCD) and analysed audiotaped consultations. The aim was to examine the 
needs expressed by people with SCD and their care partners during amyloid PET 
disclosure consultations, and to explore neurologists' communication behaviours 
surrounding these expressions of need.
METHODS: 53 persons with SCD (65 ± 7.6 yrs, 18(34 %) female, MMSE 29 ± 1.4, 
14(26 %) amyloid-positive, 10(18.9 %) attended with care partner) who wished to 
learn their amyloid PET results were included. We audiotaped disclosure 
consultations (54.7 % face-to-face, 45.3 % telephone). Systematic coding using 
inductive and deductive elements was performed and followed by thematic analysis 
by two independent researchers.
RESULTS: We observed 1434 needs expressions, on average 27(±23) per 
consultation. The needs expressed could be categorized into two main overarching 
themes: the need to feel known and understood (44 %) and the need to know and 
understand (56 %). Amyloid-positive persons expressed significantly more needs 
(t (14.3)= -2.249, p = 0.041), especially regarding the need to know and 
understand. Neurologists frequently responded with 'providing space' reactions 
(68.6 %), which often led to continued discussions about people's needs.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that people with SCD receiving their amyloid 
PET-scan results have a considerable number and variety of needs. Despite of the 
large variation in the content of these needs, we identified two main themes 
implying that people with SCD do not only want information, but also want to 
feel known and understood. Although the average number of expressed needs was 
higher among people with an amyloid positive scan, people with a negative scan 
also expressed a variety of needs. Further research is needed to inform 
guidelines for tailoring amyloid PET disclosure consultations to individual 
needs, thereby enhancing person-centred care in memory clinic settings.
IMPLICATIONS: People with SCD, care partners, and neurologists can use these 
results to prepare for amyloid PET disclosure consultations.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2025.108668
PMID: 39893987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: AH is advisor to the Brain Research 
Center. Research programs of AH have been funded by ZonMW and Alzheimer 
Nederland (WE.06-2021-06). All funding is paid to her institution. LV has been 
an invited speaker at Schwabe Group, fees were paid to her institution. Her 
research has been funded by ZonMW, Alzheimer Nederland, Health~Holland, 
Topsector Life Sciences & Health, EISAI, and Amsterdam public health research 
institute. WF performs contract research for Biogen. Research programs of WF 
have been funded by ZonMW, NWO, EU-FP7, EU-JPND, Alzheimer Nederland, 
CardioVascular Onderzoek Nederland, Health~Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & 
Health, stichting Dioraphte, Gieskes-Strijbis fonds, stichting Equilibrio, 
Pasman stichting, stichting Alzheimer & NeuroPsychiatry Foundation, Philips, 
Biogen MA Inc, Novartis-NL, Life-MI, AVID, Roche BV, Fujifilm, Combinostics. WF 
has performed contract research for Biogen MA Inc, and Boehringer Ingelheim. WF 
has been an invited speaker at Boehringer Ingelheim, Biogen MA Inc, Danone, 
Eisai, WebMD Neurology (Medscape), Springer Healthcare. WF is consultant to 
Oxford Health Policy Forum CIC, Roche, and Biogen MA Inc. WF participated in 
advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc and Roche. All funding is paid to her 
institution. WF was associate editor of Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 
2020/2021. WF is associate editor at Brain. EG has received research support 
from ZonMw (#10510032120003), Hersenstichting (#DR-2021-00391), Alzheimer 
Nederland WE.03-2023-22cb), Health~Holland LSHM23061-SGF and KWF #14728). EG has 
performed contract research for Heuron Inc. and Roche. EG has a consultancy 
agreement with IXICO and Life Molecular Imaging for the reading of PET scans. 
TR, HH, AF, MLK, CT, DV, RS, and ES report no competing interests.


87. Geriatr Nurs. 2025 Mar-Apr;62(Pt A):131-137. doi: 
10.1016/j.gerinurse.2025.01.025. Epub 2025 Feb 1.

Racial/ethnic differences in social support for dementia caregiving: Midlife 
women family caregivers of people with Alzheimer's disease.

Jeong H(1), Kim H(2), Kim E(3), Chee W(4), Im EO(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Yonsei University, 50-1 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, 03722 
Seoul, South Korea; Department of Internal Medical Nursing, Seoul National 
University Hospital, Seoul, 101 Daehak-ro Jongno-gu, 03080 Seoul, South Korea. 
Electronic address: jhw2bum@gmail.com.
(2)College of Nursing, Yonsei University, 50-1 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, 03722 
Seoul, South Korea; Mo-Im Kim Nursing Research Institute, Yonsei University, 
50-1 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, 03722 Seoul, South Korea; Institute for Innovation 
in Digital Healthcare, Yonsei University, 50-1 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, 03722 
Seoul, South Korea; Visiting scholar, Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, 
Emory University, 1520 Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. Electronic address: 
HKIM80@yuhs.ac.
(3)College of Nursing, Yonsei University, 50-1 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, 03722 
Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: eunokim02@gmail.com.
(4)College of Education, The University of Texas at Austin, 1912 Speedway, Stop 
D5000, Austin, TX 78712, USA. Electronic address: 
wonshik.chee@austin.utexas.edu.
(5)School of Nursing, The University of Texas at Austin, 1710 Red River St., 
Austin, TX 78712, USA. Electronic address: deanSON@austin.utexas.edu.

This study explored racial/ethnic differences in social support among 
racial/ethnic minority midlife women who are family caregivers of people with 
Alzheimer's disease (MWPLAD) in the US. This secondary analysis used data from a 
cross-sectional online survey conducted among 136 MWPLAD. Structured 
questionnaires were used to assess the demographic and caregiving-related 
characteristics, perceived social support, and sociocultural factors. Moreover, 
the relative contributions of demographic and sociocultural factors to social 
support were evaluated by hierarchical linear regression analysis while 
controlling for race/ethnicity. Cultural justification for duty (β = .338, p < 
.001) and discrimination during caregiving (β = -.215, p = .014) were 
significant sociocultural influencing factors, and advanced age (β = -.188, p = 
.015) was significantly associated with low social support. Therefore, 
interventions based on social determinants of health are necessary to enhance 
social support among racial/ethnic MWPLAD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2025.01.025
PMID: 39893825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare they have no conflicts of interests.


88. Mult Scler Relat Disord. 2025 Feb;94:106302. doi:
10.1016/j.msard.2025.106302.  Epub 2025 Jan 30.

The value of CSF diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in NMOSD and MOGAD in 
real-life use.

Johnsson M(1), Eriksson K(2), Rosenstein I(3), Novakova L(3), Malmeström C(4), 
Lycke J(3), Sandgren S(3), Zetterberg H(5), Blennow K(6), Johansson K(7), 
Axelsson M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden/Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden; Region Västra 
Götaland, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Department of Neurology, Sweden. 
Electronic address: magnus.johnsson@neuro.gu.se.
(2)Institute of Medicine, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden/Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden; Region Västra 
Götaland, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Department of Neurology, Sweden.
(4)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden/Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden; Region Västra 
Götaland, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Department of Neurology, Sweden; 
Laboratory for Clinical Immunology, Department of Neurology, Sahlgrenska 
University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden/Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden; Clinical 
Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden; 
Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden; UK 
Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, UK; Hong Kong 
Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China; Wisconsin Alzheimer's 
Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(6)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden/Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden; Clinical 
Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden; 
Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden; 
Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France; Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life 
Sciences and Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain 
Disorders, University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated 
Hospital of USTC, Hefei, PR China.
(7)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden/Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Diagnosing neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) may be 
challenging owing to overlapping clinical features with multiple sclerosis (MS) 
and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD), 
particularly in AQP4-IgG seronegative NMOSD patients. We evaluated cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) biomarkers, specifically glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and 
albumin quotient (QAlb), to improve diagnostic accuracy in NMOSD.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, we analyzed CSF samples for biomarkers 
GFAP, QAlb, neurofilament light, and total-Tau, from patients with AQP4-NMOSD, 
DNNMOSD, MOGAD, and MS in the Region Västra Götaland, Sweden. Receiver operating 
characteristic (ROC) analysis with calculation of the area under the curve (AUC) 
was used to identify optimal cut-off levels for discriminating AQP4-NMOSD from 
the other groups. Logistic regression models assessed the diagnostic power of 
GFAP and QAlb combined.
RESULTS: Patients with AQP4-NMOSD (N = 19) had significantly higher CSF GFAP 
levels than the others: median 2470 ng/L vs 330 ng/L (p < 0.001). The GFAP 
cutoff >715 ng/L gave a sensitivity of 81 % and specificity of 92 %. Combining 
GFAP and QAlb further increased the diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.96). MOGAD 
patients (N = 29) had the highest CSF lymphocyte counts, with elevated 
lymphocyte counts correlating with polyphasic MOGAD (R = 0.63; p = 0.016).
CONCLUSION: CSF GFAP is a valuable biomarker for distinguishing AQP4-NMOSD from 
other demyelinating diseases: Combining GFAP with QAlb enhances diagnostic 
precision.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msard.2025.106302
PMID: 39893752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest CM has 
received honoraria for lectures and advisory board memberships from Biogen, 
Merck, Novartis, and SanofiAventis. HZ has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, 
Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given 
lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work). IR has received compensation for lectures from 
Biogen, Novartis, Merck and Sanofi, and has served on advisory boards for 
Sanofi. JL has received compensation for lectures from Biogen, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Celgene, Janssen, Merck, Novartis, Sanofi; and served on advisory boards 
for Amgen, Almirall, Biogen, Merck, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi and Sandoz; and 
served on Safety Monitoring Board: GE Neuro; Chair: Board for MS therapies 
associated to the Swedish MS Association; Foundation of Swedish MS research. KB 
has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, 
ALZPath, AriBio, Beckman-Coulter, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. 
Ltd, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Quanterix, Roche Diagnostics, 
Sanofi and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees for 
Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials 
and participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, 
Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, 
outside the work presented in this paper. KE has nothing to declare. KJ has 
nothing to declare. MA has received compensation for lectures and/or advisory 
boards from Biogen. Genzyme.and Novartis. MJ has nothing to declare. SS has 
received compensation for lectures from Novartis and Merck and has served on 
scientific advisory boards for Merck.


89. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Feb 1;17(1):34. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01679-w.

Rotation errors in path integration are associated with Alzheimer's disease tau 
pathology: a cross-sectional study.

Colmant L(1)(2)(3), Quenon L(4)(5), Huyghe L(4), Ivanoiu A(4)(5), Gérard 
T(4)(5), Lhommel R(5), Coppens P(4), Salman Y(4), Malotaux V(4)(6), Dricot L(4), 
Kunz L(7), Axmacher N(8), Lefèvre P(4)(9), Hanseeuw B(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, NEUR, UCLouvain, Avenue Mounier 53/B1.53.05, 
Brussels, 1200, Belgium. lise.colmant@uclouvain.be.
(2)Department of Neurology, Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, Brussels, 1200, 
Belgium. lise.colmant@uclouvain.be.
(3)Institute of Information and Communication Technologies, Electronics and 
Applied Mathematics, UCLouvain, Louvain-La-Neuve, 1348, Belgium. 
lise.colmant@uclouvain.be.
(4)Institute of Neuroscience, NEUR, UCLouvain, Avenue Mounier 53/B1.53.05, 
Brussels, 1200, Belgium.
(5)Department of Neurology, Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, Brussels, 1200, 
Belgium.
(6)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 02114, 
USA.
(7)Department of Epileptology, University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, 53127, Germany.
(8)Department of Neuropsychology, Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, Faculty 
of Psychology, Ruhr University Bochum, Bochum, 44780, Germany.
(9)Institute of Information and Communication Technologies, Electronics and 
Applied Mathematics, UCLouvain, Louvain-La-Neuve, 1348, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Early Alzheimer's disease diagnosis is crucial for preventive 
therapy development. Standard neuropsychological evaluation does not identify 
clinically normal individuals with brain amyloidosis, the first stage of the 
pathology, defined as preclinical Alzheimer's disease. Spatial navigation 
assessment, in particular path integration, appears promising to detect 
preclinical symptoms, as the medial temporal lobe plays a key role in navigation 
and is the first cortical region affected by tau pathology.
METHODS: We have conducted a cross-sectional study. We related the path 
integration performance of 102 individuals without dementia, aged over 50, to 
amyloid and tau pathologies, measured using positron emission tomography. We 
included 75 clinically normal individuals (19 with brain amyloidosis, 56 
without) and 27 individuals with mild cognitive impairment (18 with brain 
amyloidosis, 9 without). We fitted linear mixed models to predict the path 
integration performances according to amyloid status or tau pathology in the 
medial temporal lobal, adjusting for age, gender, cognitive status, education, 
and video game experience. We decomposed the error into rotation and distance 
errors.
RESULTS: We observed that clinically normal adults with brain amyloidosis 
(preclinical Alzheimer's disease) had spatial navigation deficits when relying 
only on self-motion cues. However, they were able to use a landmark to reduce 
their errors. Individuals with mild cognitive impairment had deficits in path 
integration that did not improve when a landmark was added in the environment. 
The amyloid status did not influence performance among individuals with mild 
cognitive impairment. Among all individuals, rotation, but not distance, errors 
increased with the level of tau pathology in the medial temporal lobe.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that path integration performance in an 
environment without external cues allows identifying individuals with 
preclinical Alzheimer's disease, before overt episodic memory impairment is 
noticeable. Specifically, we demonstrated that poor angular estimation is an 
early cognitive marker of tau pathology, whereas distance estimation relates to 
older ages, not to Alzheimer's disease.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Eudra-CT 2018-003473-94.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01679-w
PMCID: PMC11786419
PMID: 39893494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of 
Helsinki and approved by the institution’s Ethics Committee (UCL-2016–121). All 
participants provided written informed consent. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


90. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Feb 1;17(1):32. doi: 10.1186/s13195-024-01621-6.

Effects of intensive lifestyle changes on the progression of mild cognitive 
impairment or early dementia due to Alzheimer's disease: the need for rigor.

Grill JD(1)(2)(3), Gillen D(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders, University of 
California Irvine, 3204 Biological Sciences III, Irvine, CA, 92697, USA. 
jgrill@uci.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, University of California Irvine, 
Irvine, CA, USA. jgrill@uci.edu.
(3)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, University of California Irvine, 
Irvine, CA, USA. jgrill@uci.edu.
(4)Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders, University of 
California Irvine, 3204 Biological Sciences III, Irvine, CA, 92697, USA.
(5)Department of Statistics, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.

We consider the recent publication by Ornish and colleagues and the rigor 
expected for interventional clinical trials. We contend that lifestyle 
intervention trials should strive for the same rigor as drug trials and 
highlight opportunities to improve rigor in this example, particularly in 
design, data analysis, and publication of results for this and other lifestyle 
intervention studies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-024-01621-6
PMCID: PMC11786341
PMID: 39893378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Publish were not required for this communication. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


91. Neurol Sci. 2025 Jun;46(6):2419-2436. doi: 10.1007/s10072-025-08023-y. Epub
2025  Feb 1.

"Advances in biomarker discovery and diagnostics for alzheimer's disease".

Bhatia V(1), Chandel A(2), Minhas Y(2), Kushawaha SK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Laureate Institute of Pharmacy Kathog, Kangra, 
177101, India. Vandana.bhatia40@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Laureate Institute of Pharmacy Kathog, Kangra, 
177101, India.
(3)Laureate Institute of Pharmacy Kathog, Kangra, 176031, India.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by intracellular neurofibrillary tangles with tau protein and 
extracellular β-amyloid plaques. Early and accurate diagnosis is crucial for 
effective treatment and management.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this review is to investigate new technologies that 
improve diagnostic accuracy while looking at the current diagnostic criteria for 
AD, such as clinical evaluations, cognitive testing, and biomarker-based 
techniques.
METHODS: A thorough review of the literature was done in order to assess both 
conventional and contemporary diagnostic methods. Multimodal strategies 
integrating clinical, imaging, and biochemical evaluations were emphasised. The 
promise of current developments in biomarker discovery was also examined, 
including mass spectrometry and artificial intelligence.
RESULTS: Current diagnostic approaches include cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
biomarkers, imaging tools (MRI, PET), cognitive tests, and new blood-based 
markers. Integrating these technologies into multimodal diagnostic procedures 
enhances diagnostic accuracy and distinguishes dementia from other conditions. 
New technologies that hold promise for improving biomarker identification and 
diagnostic reliability include mass spectrometry and artificial intelligence.
CONCLUSION: Advancements in AD diagnostics underscore the need for accessible, 
minimally invasive, and cost-effective techniques to facilitate early detection 
and intervention. The integration of novel technologies with traditional methods 
may significantly enhance the accuracy and feasibility of AD diagnosis.

© 2025. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-025-08023-y
PMID: 39893357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: This review 
article is based on previously published studies and does not involve any new 
studies with human participants or animals conducted by the authors. All 
referenced studies were conducted by ethical standards, including the 1964 
Declaration of Helsinki and its subsequent amendments, as applicable. Conflict 
of interest: The authors declare they have no conflict of interest to disclose.


92. Commun Biol. 2025 Feb 1;8(1):155. doi: 10.1038/s42003-025-07599-7.

Evidence from a mouse model supports repurposing an anti-asthmatic drug, 
bambuterol, against Alzheimer's disease by administration through an intranasal 
route.

Groo AC(#)(1), Curel T(#)(2), Malzert-Fréon A(1), Séguy L(1), Bento O(2), 
Corvaisier S(1), Culerier T(1), Legrand R(3), Callizot N(4), Henriques A(4), 
Culley G(4), Claeysen S(2), Rochais C(5), Dallemagne P(6).

Author information:
(1)Université de Caen Normandie, CERMN UR4258, Normandie Univ, 14000, Caen, 
France.
(2)IGF, Univ. Montpellier, CNRS, INSERM, F-34094, Montpellier, France.
(3)RONOMA Pharma, 31 rue Léon Delille, F-76800, Saint Etienne du Rouvray, 
France.
(4)Neuro-Sys, 410 chemin départemental 60, F-13120, Gardanne, France.
(5)Université de Caen Normandie, CERMN UR4258, Normandie Univ, 14000, Caen, 
France. christophe.rochais@unicaen.fr.
(6)Université de Caen Normandie, CERMN UR4258, Normandie Univ, 14000, Caen, 
France. patrick.dallemagne@unicaen.fr.
(#)Contributed equally

Bambuterol is a long-acting anti-asthmatic prodrug which releases terbutaline. 
Terbutaline is an agonist of the β2-adrenergic receptors which is formed by 
decarbamoylation of bambuterol by butyrylcholinesterase. Inhibition of the 
latter, as well as activation of β2-AR, are of interest for the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Combining these two activities, bambuterol could 
express a good clinical efficacy against AD. The present work firstly confirmed 
the capacity of bambuterol to display in cellulo neuroprotective activities, 
reduction of Tau hyperphosphorylation and preservation of synapses in rat 
hippocampal neuronal cultures intoxicated with Aβ peptides. Further, bambuterol, 
in the form of a liposomal gel, showed a good bioavailability in CNS after 
intranasal administration, which should reduce any side effects linked to 
peripheral terbutaline release. Indeed, even if the latter is more selective 
than other β2-mimetics towards bronchial β2-AR, cardiovascular effects 
(tachycardia, arrhythmias…) could occur upon cardiac β1-AR activation. Finally, 
intranasal administration of low doses of bambuterol gel in mice intoxicated 
with Aβ peptides, prevented long-term spatial memory impairment and showed 
beneficial effects on the survival of neurons and on synapse preservation.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s42003-025-07599-7
PMCID: PMC11787381
PMID: 39893320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: N Callizot is co-founder of 
Neuro-Sys, member of the scientific board and consulting for: Alzprotect, 
Inflectis, Axoltis, Raya Therapeutics, Neuralia. R Legrand, C Rochais and P 
Dallemagne are co-founders and members of the scientific board of RonomA-Pharma. 
All other authors declare no competing interests.


93. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Mar;12(3):100068. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100068.  Epub 2025 Jan 31.

Use of lecanemab and donanemab in the Canadian healthcare system: Evidence, 
challenges, and areas for future research.

Smith EE(1), Phillips NA(2), Feldman HH(3), Borrie M(4), Ganesh A(5), 
Henri-Bhargava A(6), Desmarais P(7), Frank A(8), Badhwar A(9), Barlow L(10), 
Bartha R(4), Best S(4), Bethell J(11), Bhangu J(4), Black SE(12), Bocti C(13), 
Bronskill SE(14), Burhan AM(15), Calon F(16), Camicioli R(17), Campbell B(18), 
Collins DL(19), Dadar M(19), DeMarco ML(20), Ducharme S(21), Duchesne S(22), 
Einstein G(23), Fisk JD(24), Gawryluk JR(25), Grossman L(26), Ismail Z(5), 
Itzhak I(27), Joshi M(5), Harrison A(26), Kröger E(28), Kumar S(23), Laforce 
R(22), Lanctot KL(29), Lau M(26), Lee L(30), Masellis M(31), Massoud F(32), 
Mitchell SB(23), Montero-Odasso M(33), Myers Barnett K(26), Nygaard HB(10), 
Pasternak SH(34), Peters J(26), Rajah MN(35), Robillard JM(10), Rockwood K(24), 
Rosa-Neto P(19), Seitz DP(5), Soucy JP(19), Trenaman SC(36), Wellington CL(37), 
Zadem A(13), Chertkow H(38); Canadian Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)University of Calgary, Canada. Electronic address: eesmith@ucalgary.ca.
(2)Concordia University, Canada.
(3)Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, Department of Neurosciences, 
University of California, San Diego, United States.
(4)Western University, Canada.
(5)University of Calgary, Canada.
(6)University of British Columbia, University of Victoria, Island Health, 
Canada.
(7)Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Canada.
(8)Bruyère Health Research Institute and University of Ottawa, Canada.
(9)Centre de Recherche de l'Institut Universitaire de Gériatrie de Montréal, 
Université de Montreal, Canada.
(10)University of British Columbia, Canada.
(11)KITE Research Institute, Toronto Rehabilitation Institute - University 
Health Network, University of Toronto, Canada.
(12)Sunnybrook Research Institute, Canada.
(13)Université de Sherbrooke, Canada.
(14)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES), Canada.
(15)Ontario Shores Centre and University of Toronto, Canada.
(16)Université Laval (Faculté de pharmacie), Canada.
(17)University of Alberta, Canada.
(18)University of Manitoba, Canada.
(19)McGill University, Canada.
(20)Providence Health Care, University of British Columbia, Canada.
(21)McGill University - Douglas Institute, Canada.
(22)Laval University, Canada.
(23)University of Toronto, Canada.
(24)Dalhousie University, Canada.
(25)University of Victoria, Canada.
(26)Person with lived experience, Canada.
(27)Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research, Canada.
(28)Université Laval, Canada.
(29)Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Canada.
(30)McMaster University, Canada.
(31)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre, Hurvitz Brain Sciences Program, Sunnybrook Research Institute, 
University of Toronto, Canada.
(32)Centre Hospitalier Charles LeMoyne / University of Sherbrooke, Canada.
(33)Department of Medicine and Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Western 
University, Canada.
(34)Western University, Parkwood Institute, Canada.
(35)Toronto Metropolitan University, Canada.
(36)Dalhousie University and Nova Scotia Health, Canada.
(37)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Canada.
(38)Rotman Research Institute, Baycrest Centre, Canada.

Lecanemab and donanemab are monoclonal antibody therapies that remove 
amyloid-beta from the brain. They are the first therapies that alter a 
fundamental mechanism, amyloid-beta deposition, in Alzheimer disease (AD). To 
inform Canadian decisions on approval and use of these drugs, the Canadian 
Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging commissioned Work Groups to review 
evidence on the efficacy and safety of these new therapies, as well as their 
projected impacts on Canadian dementia systems of care. We included persons with 
lived experience with Alzheimer disease in the discussion about the benefits and 
harms. Our review of the trial publications found high quality evidence of 
statistically significant group differences, but also recognized that there are 
mixed views on the clinical relevance of the observed differences and the value 
of therapy for individual patients. The drugs are intended for persons with 
early AD, at a stage of mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia. If patients 
are treated, then confirmation of AD by positron emission tomography or 
cerebrospinal fluid analysis and monitoring for risk of amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities was recommended, as done in the clinical trials, although it would 
strain Canadian resource capacity. More data are needed to determine the size of 
the potentially eligible treatment population in Canada.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100068
PMCID: PMC12184013
PMID: 39893139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Howard Cherkow reports financial 
support was provided by Canadian Institutes of Health Research. Howard Chertkow 
reports financial support was provided by Alberta Prion Research Institute. 
Howard Chertkow reports financial support was provided by Alberta Innovates. 
Howard Chertkow reports financial support was provided by Alzheimer Research UK. 
Alzheimer Society of Canada reports financial support was provided by Alzheimer 
Society of Canada. Alzheimer Society of Canada reports financial support was 
provided by Brain Canada Foundation. Howard Chertkow reports financial support 
was provided by Canadian Nurses Foundation. Howard Chertkow reports financial 
support was provided by Eli Lilly and Company. Howard Chertkow reports financial 
support was provided by Quebec Health Research Fund. Howard Chertkow reports 
financial support was provided by Hypertension Canada. Howard Chertkow reports 
financial support was provided by Michael Smith Foundation for Health Research. 
Howard Chertkow reports financial support was provided by New Brunswick Health 
Research Foundation. Howard Chertkow reports financial support was provided by 
Nova Scotia Health Research Foundation. Howard Chertkow reports financial 
support was provided by Ontario Brain Institute. Howard Chertkow reports 
financial support was provided by Pfizer Canada Inc. Howard Chertkow reports 
financial support was provided by Robin and Barry Picov Family Foundation. 
Howard Chertkow reports financial support was provided by Sanofi. Howard 
Chertkow reports financial support was provided by Saskatchewan Health Research 
Foundation. AmanPreet Badhwar reports a grant from the Alzheimer Society of 
Canada, paid to her institution. Laura Barlow reports no disclosures. Robert 
Bartha reports no disclosures. Sarah Best reports honoraria from Eisai 
pharmaceuticals, paid to her. Jennifer Bethell reports no disclosures. Jaspreet 
Bhangu reports a contract from Eisai for site PI, paid to his institution; 
consulting for Eisai, unpaid; and consulting for Eli Lilly, paid to him. Sandra 
Black reports contracts with Genentech, Optina, Roche, Eli Lilly, Eisai/Biogen 
Idec, Novo Nordisk, Lilly Avid, and ICON, paid to her institution; grants from 
the Ontario Brain Institute, CIHR, Leducq Foundation, Heart and Stroke 
Foundation of Canada, NIH, Alzheimers Drug Discovery Foundation, Brain Canada, 
Weston Brain Institute, Canadian Partnership for Stroke Recovery, Canadian 
Foundation for Innovation, Focused Ultrasound Foundation, Alzheimers Association 
US, Queens University, Compute Canada Resources for Research Groups, CANARIE, 
and Networks of Centres of Excellence of Canada, paid to her institution; 
consulting for Novo Nordisk, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Roche, and Cpd network, paid to 
her; consulting for DSR: Diagnosis, Solutions & Results Inc., Conference Board 
Canada, World Dementia Council, University of Rochester Contribution to the 
Mission and Scientific Leadership of the Small Vessel VCID Biomarker Validation 
Consortium, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, and Ontario 
Dementia Care Alliance (ODCA), paid to her institution; honoraria from Biogen, 
Roche, and Eisai, paid to her; and honoraria from Roche, unpaid. Christian Bocti 
reports stock in Imeka. Michael Borrie reports consulting for Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
Biogen, and Hoffmann-La Roche, paid to him; and contracts with Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
Biogen, Hoffmann-La Roche, and Alector, paid to his institution. Susan Bronskill 
reports grants from the Alzheimer Society of Canada, Brain Canada Foundation, 
Evaluative Clinical Sciences Research Platform of Sunnybrook Research Institute, 
Canadian Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA), Canadian Institutes of 
Health Research, and Ontario Brain Institute, paid to her institution; and a 
contract with the Public Health Agency of Canada, paid to her institution. Amer 
Burhan reports a contract with the Toronto Memory Program (Headland Research), 
paid to him; consulting for Eisai, Avanir, Otsuka-Lundbeck, 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, and Roche Pharma, paid to him; and grants from the 
National Institute of Aging, Brain Canada Foundation, Alzheimer Drug Discovery 
Foundation, National Research Council, Weston Foundation, and Canada Institute 
for Health Research, paid to his institution. Frederic Calon reports meeting 
expenses from Eli Lilly, paid to him. Richard Camicioli reports grants from the 
Canadian Institutes of Health Research, National Institute of Health, Weston 
Foundation, paid to him; and support for attending meetings from Parkinson 
Canada, Canadian Movement Disorders Group, and the Canadian Consortium on 
Neurodegeneration in Aging, paid to him; and advisory boards for Ambroxal trial 
and Parkinson Canada, unpaid. Barry Campbell reports no disclosures. Howard 
Chertkow reports contracts as site PI for clinical trials with Hoffmann-La Roche 
Limited, TauRx, Eli Lilly Corp., Anavex Life Sciences, Alector LLC, Biogen MA 
Inc., IntelGenX Corp., and Immunocal, paid to his institution; and consulting 
for Eisai, Biogen, and Lilly Inc. in Canada, paid to his institution. D. Louis 
Collins reports no disclosures. Mahsa Dadar reports no disclosures. Mari DeMarco 
reports consulting for Roche and Eisai, paid to her; honoraria from Roche, paid 
to her; and a grant from Roche, paid to her institution. Philippe Desmarais 
reports consulting for Eisai, paid to him. Simon Ducharme reports contracts for 
clinical trials with Biogen, Janssen, Novo Nordisk, Alnylam, Passage Bio, and 
Innodem Neurosciences, paid to his institution; consulting for QuRALIS, Eisai, 
and Eli Lilly, paid to him; honoraria from Eisai, paid to him; and participation 
in a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board for Aviado Bio and 
IntelGenX, paid to him. Simon Duchesne reports stock or stock options for True 
Positive Medical Devices Inc., paid to him; honoraria from Novo Nordisk, paid to 
him; and travel expenses from Eisai, paid to him. Gillian Einstein reports no 
disclosures. Howard Feldman reports consulting for Eisai Inc., Biogen, LuMind, 
and Novo Nordisk, paid to his institution; grants from Allyx Therapeutics, 
Vivoryon Therapeutics, Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, and LuMind Foundation, paid to 
his institution; royalties from the University of British Columbia, paid to him; 
a patent held by the University of British Columbia, paid to him; consulting for 
Axon Neuroscience, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals, and Biosplice Therapeutics, paid 
to his institution; support for attending meetings or travel from Novo Nordisk 
Inc., Royal Society of Canada, Translating Research in Elder Care (TREC), and 
the Association for Frontotemporal Dementia (AFTD), with payments made to his 
institution; participation in a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board 
for the Tau Consortium and Janssen Research & Development LLC, paid to his 
institution; and philanthropic support from the Epstein Family Alzheimers 
Research Collaboration, paid to his institution. John Fisk reports no 
disclosures. Andrew Frank reports consulting for Eli Lilly Canada, Eisai Canada, 
and Novo Nordisk, paid to him. Aravind Ganesh reports grants from the Alzheimer 
Society of Canada and Alzheimer Society of Alberta and Northwest Territories, 
paid to his institution; and consulting for Biogen and Eisai, paid to him. Jodie 
Gawryluk reports no disclosures. Linda Grossman reports no disclosures. Arthur 
Harrison reports no disclosures. Alexandre Henri-Bhargava reports consulting for 
Eisai Canada and Eli Lilly, paid to him; contracts for clinical trials with Novo 
Nordisk, Cerevel, Anavex, IntelGenX, and Green Valley (Shanghai), paid to his 
institution; honoraria from the Canadian Coalition for Seniors Mental Health, 
paid to him; leadership in the Consortium of Canadian Centres for Clinical 
Cognitive Research and the Canadian Neurological Society, unpaid; and other 
financial or non-financial interests through the Neil and Susan Manning 
Cognitive Health Initiative, paid to his institution. Zahinoor Ismail reports 
consulting for CADTH, Eisai, Lilly, Lundbeck, Novo Nordisk, Otsuka, and Roche, 
paid to him. Inbal Itzhak reports no disclosures. Manish Joshi reports 
consulting for Eisai, Biogen, Eli Lilly, and Clario, paid to him. Edeltraut 
Kröger reports no disclosures. Sanjeev Kumar reports no disclosures. Robert 
Laforce reports consulting for Eisai and Eli Lilly, paid to him. Krista Lanctot 
reports grants from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Alzheimers Drug 
Discovery Foundation, Weston Foundation, Alzheimers Association (US), and Pooler 
Charitable Fund, paid to her institution; contracts with Cerevel and BioXcel, 
paid to her institution; consulting for Boehringer Ingelheim, Bright Minds, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Cerevel, Eisai Co. Ltd, Exciva, Ironshore Pharmaceuticals, 
Kondor Pharma, H Lundbeck A/S, Novo Nordisk, and Praxis Therapeutics, paid to 
her; honoraria from Novo Nordisk, H Lundbeck, and Eisai, paid to her; support 
for attending meetings or travel from H Lundbeck and Eisai, paid to her 
institution; participation in a Data Safety Monitoring Board or advisory board 
for the PAS-MCI Study, unpaid; leadership in the American Association of 
Geriatric Psychiatry, unpaid; and receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, gifts, 
or services from PBG, paid to her institution. Meghan Lau reports no 
disclosures. Linda Lee reports consulting for Eisai, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, 
Lundbeck, and Roche, paid to her. Mario Masellis reports grants from the 
Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Weston Brain Institute, Ontario Brain 
Institute, Washington University, Women's Brain Health Initiative, Brain Canada, 
and EU Joint Program for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, paid to him; 
contracts for clinical trials with Roche and Alector, paid to his institution; 
consulting fees from Ionis, Alector, Biogen Canada, Wave Life Science, Eisai 
Canada, and Novo Nordisk Canada, paid to him; royalties from the Henry Stewart 
Talks, paid to him; honoraria from MINT Memory Clinics and ECHO Dementia Series, 
paid to him; and membership in Scientific Advisory Boards of the Alzheimer's 
Society Canada and Parkinson Canada, unpaid. Fadi Massoud reports honoraria from 
Astellas and Pfizer, paid to him; and consulting for Eisai and Novo Nordisk, 
paid to him. Sara Mitchell reports consulting for Eisai, paid to her; honoraria 
from Eisai and Eli Lilly, paid to her; support for attending meetings or travel 
from Eli Lilly, paid to her; and leadership in the Novo Nordisk Advisory Board, 
paid to her. Manuel Montero-Odasso reports no disclosures. Karen Myers Barnett 
reports no disclosures. Haakon Nygaard reports consulting for Eisai, paid to 
him; and participation in advisory boards for Biogen and Hoffmann-La Roche, paid 
to him. Stephen Pasternak reports a grant from Zywie Bio LLC and the Weston 
Foundation, paid to his institution; site investigator for contracts with 
Cassava and AriBio, paid to his institution; consulting for Eisai, unpaid; an 
advisory board role for Zywie Bio LLC, unpaid; stock in Zywie Bio LLC; a patent 
through Zywie Bio LLC, unpaid; and leadership in the C5R Board, unpaid. Jody 
Peters reports no disclosures. Natalie Phillips reports no disclosures. M. 
Natasha Rajah reports no disclosures. Julie Robillard reports no disclosures. 
Kenneth Rockwood reports royalties from The Clinical Frailty Scale and the 
Pictorial Fit-Frail Scale, paid to his institution; honoraria from the Burnaby 
Family Practice, Chinese Medical Association, University of Nebraska-Omaha, the 
Australia New Zealand Society of Geriatric Medicine, the Atria Institute, 
University of British Columbia, McMaster University, and Fraser Health 
Authority, paid to him; a US patent application submitted for Electronic Goal 
Attainment Scaling (patent number US20230402138A1); consulting for EIP Pharma 
Inc., the ADMET-2 advisory board (Johns Hopkins), and the Wake Forest University 
Medical School Centre advisory board, unpaid; advisory board roles with Ardea 
Outcomes, Danone, Hollister, INmune, Novartis, Takeda, and Nutricia, unpaid. 
Pedro Rosa-Neto reports no disclosures. Dallas Seitz reports a grant from the 
University Health Foundation - Alberta Roche Collaboration in Health, Alzheimers 
Association, and Alzheimer Society of Canada, paid to his institution; honoraria 
from the Canadian Coalition for Seniors Mental Health, Alberta Health Services, 
and Recovery Alberta, paid to him; and leadership on the Board of Directors for 
the Alzheimer Society of Alberta and Northwest Territories, unpaid. Eric Smith 
reports grants from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Weston Family 
Foundation, and Weston Brain Institute, paid to his institution; contracts for 
clinical trials from Biogen, paid to his institution; contracts with Sense 
Diagnostics and SFJ Pharmaceuticals, paid to his institution; royalties from 
UpToDate and UTI Limited Partnership, paid to him; consulting for Eisai, Eli 
Lilly, and Alnylam, unpaid; and participation in a Data Safety and Monitoring 
Board for NINDS, paid to him. Jean-Paul Soucy reports grants from the Weston 
Foundation and Canadian Institutes of Health Research, paid to his institution; 
a contract with Charles River, paid to his institution; and consulting for 
Biogen, paid to him. Shanna Trenaman reports being a patient advisor for a 
Delphi panel developing best practices for antipsychotic use in long-term care, 
unpaid. Cheryl Wellington reports grants from the Heart and Stroke Foundation of 
Canada, BrightFocus Foundation, and Cure Alzheimer Fund, paid to her 
institution. Aicha Zadem reports no disclosures. If there are other authors, 
they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


94. Neurotherapeutics. 2025 Apr;22(3):e00536. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00536. 
Epub 2025 Jan 31.

Identification and development of cGAS inhibitors and their uses to treat 
Alzheimer's disease.

Alarcón-Espósito J(1), Nagiri RK(1), Gan L(1), Sinha SC(2).

Author information:
(1)Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research Institute, Feil Family 
Brain and Mind Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research Institute, Feil Family 
Brain and Mind Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA. 
Electronic address: sus2044@med.cornell.edu.

Cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) is a key component of the evolutionary 
conserved immune response pathway, acting upstream stimulator of interferon 
genes (STING). It is implicated in various human diseases, including Alzheimer's 
Disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative disorders. Recent studies have shown 
that pharmacological inhibition of cGAS in tauopathy mice reduces cytokine 
expression and ameliorates memory and cognition function. This review summarizes 
the development and application of high-throughput screening (HTS) strategies 
for identifying cGAS inhibitor hits and transitioning from hits to leads. Such 
efforts have provided diverse array of potent cGAS inhibitors that may be 
beneficial in treating central nervous system (CNS) disorders, such as AD and 
other neurodegenerative diseases. We describe three HTS strategies: the 
classical HTS using a chemical library of drug like compounds by cell-free or 
cell-based assays and the fragment-based screening, where the activity of 
potential inhibitors was determined by measuring the levels of unreacted ATP or 
assessing the production of cGAMP or pyrophosphate (PPi). These methods were 
instrumental in discovering cGAS inhibitor hits and subsequent modifications 
produced potent leads. Finally, we discuss various post-translational 
modifications of cGAS and consider whether some of these modifications may serve 
as useful targets for inhibiting cGAS activity or for promoting protein 
degradation.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00536
PMCID: PMC12047402
PMID: 39893084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Subhash Sinha reports a 
relationship with Aeton Therapeutics that includes: equity or stocks. Li Gan 
reports a relationship with Aeton Therapeutics that includes: equity or stocks. 
Li Gan has patent pending to Weill Cornell Medicine. Subhash Sinha has patent 
pending to Weill Cornell Medicine. Ravi Kumar Nigiri has patent pending to Weill 
Cornell Medicine. Guest Editor, Neurotherapeutics, Gan. Guest Editor, 
Neurotherapeutics, Sinha. If there are other authors, they declare that they 
have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could 
have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


95. Med Clin North Am. 2025 Mar;109(2):463-483. doi: 10.1016/j.mcna.2024.10.003. 
Epub 2024 Nov 19.

Alzheimer's Disease Diagnosis and Management in the Age of Amyloid Monoclonal 
Antibodies.

Hales CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Center for Neurodegenerative Disease, Goizueta 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Emory University School of Medicine, 6 
Executive Park Drive, Atlanta, GA 30329, USA. Electronic address: 
cmhales@emory.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder, and for 
providers the term AD is often avoided, favoring generic terms like memory loss 
or dementia. This is partly not only by limitations in using diagnostics and 
busy clinics but also by a sense that an AD diagnosis will not lead to a 
meaningful change in management. However, a turning point has occurred with 
advancements in diagnostics and disease-modifying therapies. Additionally, AD 
prevention therapies are not too far into the future. This review will cover AD 
clinical presentation and symptomatic management with focus on AD diagnostics 
and disease-modifying therapies.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcna.2024.10.003
PMID: 39893023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures The author has participated in 
industry-sponsored clinical trials for Alzheimer’s disease and frontotemporal 
dementia. Funding for trials is managed through the Emory Office of Sponsored 
Programs and there are no direct financial relationships between companies and 
the author.


96. Soins Gerontol. 2025 Jan-Feb;30(171):24-29. doi: 10.1016/j.sger.2024.10.005. 
Epub 2024 Dec 24.

[Relationships experienced by people living with Alzheimer's disease: six points 
of reference for understanding the times lived].

[Article in French]

Rey S(1).

Author information:
(1)Département des sciences infirmières de l'université du Québec à 
Trois-Rivières, Canada. Electronic address: sylvie.rey@uqtr.ca.

The changes associated with Alzheimer's disease modify the person's lived 
experience. Care can be considered from the point of view of the relationships 
to time, experienced and shaken, which are experienced by people suffering from 
this disease through six key concepts: Chronos, Diatribè, Kairos, Tempus, Schôlè 
and Aiôn. These six temporal textures are explained, illustrated and 
contextualized through concrete care situations.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sger.2024.10.005
PMID: 39892917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Contemp Clin Trials. 2025 May;152:107829. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2025.107829.
Epub  2025 Jan 30.

The Everyday Function Intervention Trial (EFIT) protocol: A randomized clinical 
trial.

Ross LA(1), Fine C(2), Stephan AT(2), Chai HW(2), McVey A(2), Phillips CB(2), 
Gamaldo A(2), Mogle J(2), Dennis N(3), Sliwinski M(4), Visscher K(5).

Author information:
(1)Clemson University, Department of Psychology and Institute for Engaged Aging, 
418 Brackett Hall, Clemson, SC 29631, United States. Electronic address: 
laross@clemson.edu.
(2)Clemson University, Department of Psychology and Institute for Engaged Aging, 
418 Brackett Hall, Clemson, SC 29631, United States.
(3)Pennsylvania State University, Department of Psychology, 140 Moore Building, 
University Park, PA 16802, United States.
(4)Pennsylvania State University, Department of Human Development and Family 
Studies, 133 Health and Human Development Building, University Park, PA 16802, 
United States.
(5)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Department of Neurobiology, SHEL 912, 
1720 2nd Avenue South, Birmingham, AL 35294, United States.

BACKGROUND: Preserving cognition and everyday function is essential for 
maintaining independence and reducing risk of Alzheimer's disease and related 
dementias (ADRD). Useful Field of View training (UFOVt) is a computerized 
cognitive training program that achieves these goals; however, the mechanisms 
underlying UFOVt are unclear. The Everyday Function Intervention Trial (EFIT) is 
a double-blind randomized clinical controlled trial designed to assess potential 
cognitive, psychosocial, biological, and lifestyle mechanisms underlying UFOVt. 
In the current paper, we outline the protocol employed in EFIT.
METHODS: Community-dwelling older adults (N = 96) completed cognitive, 
psychosocial, health, and lifestyle assessments on a study-provided laptop at 
baseline, post-test, and three-month follow-up, along with additional daily 
cognitive, psychosocial, health, and lifestyle assessments on a study-provided 
smartphone throughout the study period. Following baseline, participants were 
randomized into the cognitive training or active control group completing twenty 
hours of brain games across ten weeks. A subsample (n = 38) completed additional 
activities: wearing a FitBit, undergoing MRI scans, and using at-home sleep 
monitors across two nights at baseline and post-test. Aside from MRI sessions, 
participants completed study activities remotely.
DISCUSSION: EFIT's design included several novel features: ecological momentary 
assessment; remote data collection; evaluation of mediators before, during, and 
after training; training tasks targeting one cognitive domain at a time; 
performance-based and self-reported everyday function and instrumental 
activities of daily living measures; use of an active control group; and an 
exploratory multilevel modeling analytic approach. These features will provide 
an in-depth understanding of intervention transfer effects and guide the design 
of future cognitive interventions.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2025.107829
PMID: 39892866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


98. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2025 Mar 20;137:111278. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2025.111278. Epub 2025 Jan 31.

Psychedelics in neuroinflammation: Mechanisms and therapeutic potential.

de Deus JL(1), Maia JM(2), Soriano RN(3), Amorim MR(4), Branco LGS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, George Washington 
University, Washington, DC, USA; Department of Oral and Basic Biology Ribeirão 
Preto, Dental School of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, 
SP, Brazil.
(2)Department of Medicine, Federal University of Juiz de Fora, Governador 
Valadares,MG, Brazil.
(3)Division of Physiology and Biophysics, Department of Basic Life Sciences, 
Federal University of Juiz de Fora, Governador Valadares, MG, Brazil.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, George Washington 
University, Washington, DC, USA; Program of Physiology, Medical School of 
Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(5)Department of Oral and Basic Biology Ribeirão Preto, Dental School of 
Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil; Program of 
Physiology, Medical School of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão 
Preto, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: branco@forp.usp.br.

Neuroinflammation is a critical factor in the pathogenesis of various 
neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, and major depressive disorder. Psychedelics, such as 
psilocybin, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), and dimethyltryptamine (DMT), have 
demonstrated promising therapeutic effects on neuroinflammation, primarily 
through interactions with serotonin (5-HT) receptors, particularly the 5-HT2A 
receptor. Activation of these receptors by psychedelics modulates the production 
of pro-inflammatory cytokines, regulates microglial activity, and shifts the 
balance between neurotoxic and neuroprotective metabolites. Additionally, 
psychedelics affect critical signaling pathways, including the nuclear factor 
kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB), 
phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/Akt), and mechanistic 
target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathways, promoting neuroplasticity and exerting 
anti-inflammatory effects. Beyond the serotonergic system, other 
neurotransmitter systems-including the glutamatergic, dopaminergic, 
noradrenergic, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAergic), and cholinergic systems-also 
play significant roles in mediating the effects of psychedelics. This review 
examines the intricate mechanisms by which psychedelics modulate 
neuroinflammation and underscores their potential as innovative therapeutic 
agents for treating neuroinflammatory and neuropsychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2025.111278
PMID: 39892847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
acknowledge the financial support from FAPESP (Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do 
Estado de São Paulo), CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e 
Tecnológico), and CAPES (Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível 
Superior). Their contributions were essential for the development of this 
research. The authors also appreciate the institutional support provided for the 
execution of the study.


99. Behav Brain Res. 2025 Mar 28;482:115455. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115455. Epub
 2025 Jan 30.

Standardized extract of Ginkgo biloba induced memory consolidation in female 
mice with hypofunction of vesicular acetylcholine transporter.

Muratori BG(1), da Veiga IET(1), Medeiros GN(1), Silva SMSE(1), Soliani AG(1), 
Prado CM(2), Cerutti SM(3).

Author information:
(1)Cellular and Behavioral Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Department of 
Biological Sciences, Institute of Environmental, Chemical and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)Department of Biosciences, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Campus Baixada 
Santista, Santos, SP, Brazil.
(3)Cellular and Behavioral Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Department of 
Biological Sciences, Institute of Environmental, Chemical and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: 
smcerutti@unifesp.br.

Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons are pivotal for cholinergic signaling in the 
neocortex and hippocampal formation, crucially implicated in neurodegenerative 
diseases like late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD), recognition memory 
impairments, and decision-making. The acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) is 
essential for loading acetylcholine into synaptic vesicles. Building on our 
previous findings showing that Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb) preserves recognition 
memory, we hypothesized EGb would enhance memory in female mice with varying 
VAChT reductions. We also explored whether reduced cholinergic signaling induces 
anxiety-like behavior and whether EGb could alleviate such symptoms. 
Three-month-old female mice with severe VAChT reduction (knockdown homozygotes; 
VAChT KDHOM), moderate reduction (heterozygotes; VAChT KDHET), and wild-type 
(WT) mice received the vehicle, 5 mg/kg Donepezil, or EGb at doses of 250, 500, 
and 1000 mg/kg for 30 days. Memory assessments included aversive tasks like 
discriminative avoidance memory and non-aversive tasks like object recognition 
and location memory. We assessed VAChT protein expression in the hippocampal 
formation (HF) using Western blotting and quantified VAChT-immunopositive cells 
(IR+) in specific HF subfields (dCA1, dCA3, dDG) using immunohistochemistry. 
Chronic EGb treatment significantly improved long-term memory in female VAChT 
KDHOM mice in object recognition and locations memories in a dose-dependent 
manner, unlike Donepezil. Enhanced memory was correlated with an increase in 
VAChT-IR+ cells in the dCA1 of VAChT KDHOM mice. Additionally, EGb reduced 
VAChT-IR+ cells in the dDG of VAChT KDHET mice, which was associated with 
decreased anxiety-like behavior. These findings suggest that EGb effectively 
mitigates deficits caused by cholinergic deficiency in hippocampal-dependent 
memory consolidation, thereby improving our understanding of its role in 
modulating long-term memory and hippocampal plasticity.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115455
PMID: 39892653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
confirm that the research was conducted without any commercial or financial 
relationships that could potentially create a conflict of interest regarding the 
subject matter of this study.


100. Am J Prev Med. 2025 May;68(5):1015-1021. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2025.01.019.
Epub  2025 Jan 30.

Use of Medications for Opioid Use Disorder in Older Adults.

Kuo YF(1), Westra J(2), Harvey EP(3), Raji MA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, School of Public and Population 
Health, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas; Office of 
Biostatistics, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas; Department 
of Internal Medicine-Geriatric Medicine Division, John Sealy School of Medicine, 
University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas; Sealy Center on Aging, 
University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas. Electronic address: 
yokuo@utmb.edu.
(2)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, School of Public and Population 
Health, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas; Office of 
Biostatistics, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, University of Texas Medical 
Branch, Galveston, Texas.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine-Geriatric Medicine Division, John Sealy 
School of Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas; Sealy 
Center on Aging, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas.

INTRODUCTION: The American population diagnosed with opioid use disorder is 
growing, particularly those aged ≥65 years. Less than 30% of opioid use disorder 
patients receive medication for opioid use disorder, and even fewer older 
adults.
METHODS: Using 20% national Medicare data, beneficiaries aged over 65 years 
diagnosed with opioid use disorder in 2017-2022 were selected to assess the 
trend and types of medication for opioid use disorder use, including methadone, 
buprenorphine, or naltrexone. In the 2022 cohort (n=69,380), a multivariable 
logistic regression model was constructed to examine the factors associated with 
use of medication for opioid use disorder. Analyses were performed in 2024.
RESULTS: Use of medications for opioid use disorder among older adults increased 
from 4.8% in 2017 to 7.5% in 2019 and 15.0% in 2022. The larger increase 
coincided with implementation of a new Medicare payment policy covering 
methadone for opioid use disorder. About 79% of opioid use disorder patients had 
chronic pain and arthritis; 50% had anemia, depression, or anxiety. Males, Black 
patients, Hispanic patients, older patients, and rural residents had lower odds 
of receiving medication for opioid use disorder. Enrollees with dual coverage 
from Medicaid had higher odds of receiving medication for opioid use disorder. 
Patients with alcohol or tobacco use disorders, anxiety, depression, 
hypothyroidism, or liver disease were more likely to receive medication for 
opioid use disorder; conversely, those with non-Alzheimer's dementia, cancer, 
chronic kidney disease, stroke, chronic pain, or arthritis were less likely to 
receive medication for opioid use disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: The rate of medication for opioid use disorder use was low in older 
adults. The disparity in medication for opioid use disorder use underscores the 
need for improved access to comprehensive opioid treatment programs and 
increased medication for opioid use disorder coverage. Additional studies of 
treatment patterns are also warranted.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2025.01.019
PMCID: PMC12033077
PMID: 39892523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest and Financial Disclosures 
Drs. Kuo and Raji are funded by the grant R01DA039192 from the National 
Institute on Drug Abuse. The sponsors had no role in the design, methods, 
subject recruitment, data collection, analysis, or preparation of this 
manuscript. No financial disclosure have been reported by the authors of this 
paper.