1. Neurotherapeutics. 2025 Sep;22(5):e00712. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00712. 
Epub 2025 Jul 29.

From metabolism to mind: The expanding role of the GLP-1 receptor in 
neurotherapeutics.

Roy A(1), Dawson VL(2), Dawson TM(3).

Author information:
(1)Neuroregeneration and Stem Cell Programs, Institute for Cell Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Neuroregeneration and Stem Cell Programs, Institute for Cell Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA; Department of 
Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA; 
Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA; Department of Physiology, Pharmacology and 
Therapeutics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. 
Electronic address: vdawson@jhmi.edu.
(3)Neuroregeneration and Stem Cell Programs, Institute for Cell Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA; Department of 
Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA; 
Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA; Department of Physiology, Pharmacology and 
Therapeutics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. 
Electronic address: tdawson@jhmi.edu.

GLP-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs), initially approved for diabetes and obesity, 
are now under investigation for neuroprotective effects in a range of 
neurological disorders. These agents, whose receptors are widely expressed in 
brain regions involved in cognition and metabolism, modulate neurotransmitter 
release and promote neurogenesis. While preclinical studies consistently 
demonstrate benefits in models of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
multiple sclerosis, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), clinical trial 
outcomes have been variable, largely owing to heterogeneity in study populations 
and trial design. Newer agents, such as NLY01 and tirzepatide, are under 
development to enhance central nervous system penetration and efficacy. Although 
GLP-1RAs are generally safe in metabolic conditions, their use in neurological 
diseases requires careful monitoring and patient selection. Future directions 
include developing reliable biomarkers, implementing precision medicine 
strategies, and exploring the use of combination therapies to maximize 
therapeutic potential.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00712
PMCID: PMC12491786
PMID: 40738791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Ted M. Dawson reports financial 
support was provided by Freedom Together Foundation. Ted M. Dawson reports a 
relationship with D&D Pharmatech that includes: equity or stocks. Valina L. 
Dawson reports a relationship with D&D Pharmatech that includes: equity or 
stocks. Ted M. Dawson has patent #27. US,11123109 B2 – Long-Acting GLP-1R 
Agonist as a Therapy of Neurological and Neurodegenerative Conditions. issued to 
Neuraly. Valina L. Dawson has patent #27. US,11123109 B2 – Long-Acting GLP-1R 
Agonist as a Therapy of Neurological and Neurodegenerative Conditions. pending 
to Neuraly. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


2. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2025 Jul 30:ajnr.A8946. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A8946. Online
 ahead of print.

AI-Assisted Detection of Amyloid-related Imaging Abnormalities (ARIA): Promise 
and Pitfalls.

Petrella JR(1), Liu AJ(1), Wang LA(1), Doraiswamy PM(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Radiology (J.R.P), Neurology (A.J.L.) and Psychiatry 
(P.M.D., L.A.W), Duke University School of Medicine, Durham NC, USA; Duke-UNC 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (J.R.P, A.J.L., P.M.D.), Durham/Chapel Hill, 
NC, USA.

The advent of anti-amyloid therapies (AATs) for Alzheimer's disease (AD) has 
elevated the importance of MRI surveillance for amyloidrelated imaging 
abnormalities (ARIA) such as microhemorrhages and siderosis (ARIA-H) and edema 
(ARIA-E). We report a literature review and early quality assurance experience 
with an FDA-cleared assistive AI tool intended for detection of ARIA in MRI 
clinical workflows. The AI system improved sensitivity for detection of subtle 
ARIA-E and ARIA-H lesions but at the cost of a reduction in specificity. We 
propose a tiered workflow combining protocol harmonization and expert 
interpretation with AI overlay review. AI-assisted ARIA detection is a paradigm 
shift that offers great promise to enhance patient safety as disease-modifying 
therapies for AD gain broader clinical use; however, some pitfalls need to be 
considered.ABBREVIATIONS: AAT＝ anti-amyloid therapy; ARIA＝ amyloid-related 
imaging abnormalities, ARIA-H = amyloid-related imaging abnormality-hemorrhage, 
ARIA-E = amyloid-related imaging abnormality-edema.

© 2025 by American Journal of Neuroradiology.

DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A8946
PMID: 40738658


3. Fitoterapia. 2025 Sep;185:106772. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2025.106772. Epub 2025
 Jul 28.

Metabolite profiling and neuroprotective potential of Clitoria ternatea L. 
through in-vitro and in-vivo experimental models.

Chowdhury S(1), Das Gupta B(2), Ghosh S(3), Gayen S(4), Kar A(5), Mukherjee 
PK(6), Haldar PK(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Natural Product Studies, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, 
Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032, India. Electronic address: 
somachowdhury121@gmail.com.
(2)School of Natural Product Studies, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, 
Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032, India. Electronic address: 
barundasgupta38@gmail.com.
(3)School of Natural Product Studies, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, 
Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032, India. Electronic address: 
supghosh8@gmail.com.
(4)School of Natural Product Studies, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, 
Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032, India. Electronic address: 
srijongayen97@gmail.com.
(5)Institute of Bioresources and Sustainable Development, Biotechnology Research 
and Innovation Council, Department of Biotechnology, Govt. of India, Imphal 
795001, India. Electronic address: amit.kar23@ibsd.gov.in.
(6)School of Natural Product Studies, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, 
Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032, India. Electronic address: 
pulokm@gmail.com.
(7)School of Natural Product Studies, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, 
Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032, India. Electronic address: 
pallab.haldar@jadavpuruniversity.in.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease is a growing concern in the global population, 
affecting learning, memory and causes neurodegeneration. Clitoria ternatea L. 
(Fabaceae), is used traditionally to treat cognitive dysfunction by improving 
memory.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study focuses on the metabolite profiling and evaluation 
of the neuroprotective potential of C. ternatea L. extracts in the in-vitro 
enzyme inhibition model and in-vivo anti-Alzheimer model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The in-vitro cholinesterase enzyme inhibitory potential 
of CT root, flower, and combination extract was assessed by Ellman's method. 
Metabolite profiling of combination extract was done followed by in-vivo 
neurobehavioral study. Biochemical parameters related to neurological 
dysfunction were evaluated in brain tissues along with histopathological 
changes.
RESULT: The combination extract exhibited the most potent Acetylcholinesterase 
and Butyrylcholinesterase inhibitory activity with IC50 81.91 ± 0.19 μg/mL & and 
91.48 ± 0.23 μg/mL respectively as compare to CTF & CTR extract. The 
UHPLC-Q-TOF-MS identified 26 phytoconstituents, including Malvidin, Delphinidin, 
Taraxerol, Clitorinolactone etc. The in-vivo study demonstrated memory 
enhancement with dose 200 mg/kg body weight. No significant histopathological 
changes were found in high dose of combination treated group, whereas little 
changes were found in low dose.
CONCLUSION: C. ternatea L. flower and root extract in combination was found to 
be more efficacious for the management of neurological dysfunction and memory 
impairment and this is due to the synergistic interaction of phytomolecules 
present in the extract. Further, ex-vivo evaluation along with the regulation of 
key genes and pathways could be done to establish the mechanism of action.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2025.106772
PMID: 40738457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


4. Brain Behav Immun. 2025 Oct;129:1014-1027. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2025.07.028.
Epub  2025 Jul 28.

Genotype and microbiome shape immunity in a sex-specific manner in mouse models 
of Alzheimer's disease.

Bostick JW(1), Connerly TJ(2), Thron T(2), Needham BD(3), de Castro Fonseca 
M(2), Kaddurah-Daouk R(4), Knight R(5), Mazmanian SK(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of 
Technology, 1200 E California Blvd, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA. Electronic address: 
jwbostick@ufl.edu.
(2)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of 
Technology, 1200 E California Blvd, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA.
(3)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of 
Technology, 1200 E California Blvd, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA; Duke Institute of 
Brain Sciences, Duke University, 308 Research Dr, Durham, NC 27710, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University, 905 W Main 
St, Durham, NC 27701, USA; Duke Institute of Brain Sciences, Duke University, 
308 Research Dr, Durham, NC 27710, USA; Department of Medicine, Duke University, 
40 Duke Medicine Cir Rm 401, Davison Bldg, Durham, NC 27710, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, University of California San Diego, 9461 Gilman Dr, 
La Jolla, CA 92093, USA; Shu Chien-Gene Lay Department of Bioengineering, 
University of California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Dr, MC 0412, La Jolla, CA 92093, 
USA; Department of Computer Science & Engineering, University of California San 
Diego, 9500 Gilman Dr, MC 0404, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA; Halicioğlu Data Science 
Institute, University of California San Diego, 3234 Matthews Ln, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA.
(6)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of 
Technology, 1200 E California Blvd, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA. Electronic address: 
sarkis@caltech.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Oct 24:2024.05.07.593011. doi: 10.1101/2024.05.07.593011.

Preclinical studies have revealed that the microbiome broadly affects immune 
responses and deposition and/or clearance of amyloid-beta (Aβ) in mouse models 
of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but whether, and how, the microbiome shapes central 
and peripheral immune profiles in AD models remains unknown. We examined 
adaptive immune responses in two mouse models containing AD-related genetic 
predispositions (3xTg and 5xFAD) in the presence or absence of the microbiome to 
determine if it promotes dysregulated immune responses and cognition in AD. T 
and B cells were altered in central nervous system (CNS)-associated lymph nodes 
and systemic immune tissues between genetic models and wildtype mice, with 
earlier signs of heightened immune activity in females. Systemic immune 
responses were modulated by the microbiome and differed by sex. Further, the 
absence of a microbiome in germ-free mice resulted in increased cognitive 
deficits, primarily in males. These data reveal sexual dimorphism in early signs 
of immune activity and microbiome effects, and highlight how sex and the 
microbiome shape responses in mouse models of AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2025.07.028
PMCID: PMC12490345
PMID: 40738263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest R.K.-D. is an 
inventor on a series of patents on use of metabolomics for the diagnosis and 
treatment of CNS diseases and holds equity in Metabolon Inc., Chymia LLC and 
PsyProtix. R.K. is a scientific advisory board member, and consultant for 
BiomeSense, Inc., has equity, and receives income. He is a scientific advisory 
board member and has equity in GenCirq. He is a consultant for DayTwo, and 
receives income. He has equity in and acts as a consultant for Cybele. He is a 
co-founder of Biota, Inc., and has equity. He is a cofounder of Micronoma, and 
has equity and is a scientific advisory board member. The terms of these 
arrangements have been reviewed and approved by the University of California, 
San Diego in accordance with its conflict of interest policies. S.K.M. is a 
co-founder of Axial Therapeutics and Nuanced Health, and declares no competing 
interests with the current studies. The remaining authors have no interests to 
declare.


5. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2025 Sep 8;778:152418. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.152418. Epub 2025 Jul 28.

From gut to brain: donepezil and nimodipine combination therapy improves 
cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease via gut microbiota and metabolites.

Liu J(1), Liu K(2), Cui X(1), Ji Y(1), Ding Z(1), Chang Z(1), Zhang J(1), Wang 
X(1), Liu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, College of Pharmacy, Shandong First 
Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, 250118, China.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, College of Pharmacy, Shandong First 
Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, 250118, China. 
Electronic address: 15562563857@163.com.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, College of Pharmacy, Shandong First 
Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, 250118, China. 
Electronic address: 15044043490@163.com.

Donepezil (DNP) is often combined with nimodipine (NMD) for the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, its underlying mechanisms remain poorly 
understood. This study integrated pharmacodynamics, microbiomics, and fecal 
metabolomics analysis to explore the therapeutic potential and mechanism of 
DNP + NMD in AD. The results showed that DNP + NMD significantly reduced the 
contents of serum inflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-1β, and tumor 
necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) as well as the contents of nitric oxide synthase 
(NOS), glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in 
the hippocampus, alleviated neuronal damage in hippocampal tissues and 
effectively improved cognitive deficits of AD rats. Furthermore, DNP + NMD 
greatly increased the relative abundance of beneficial bacteria (Lactobacillus 
and Prevotellaceae_Prevotella) and decreased the relative abundance of harmful 
bacteria (Ruminococcus and Akkermansia). Fecal metabolomic analyses indicated 
that DNP + NMD regulated 28 fecal differential metabolite levels mainly through 
six key pathways, including linoleic acid metabolism, arachidonic acid 
metabolism, unsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis, steroid hormone biosynthesis, 
saturated fatty acid biosynthesis, primary bile acid biosynthesis, pantothenic 
acid biosynthesis, and coenzyme A biosynthesis pathway. Moreover, Spearman's 
correlation analysis revealed significant associations between affected 
metabolites and specific gut microbes. In general, our research sheds light that 
DNP + NMD exerts a neuroprotective effect against AD by ameliorating the gut 
microbiota and fecal metabolic disorders, uncovering novel mechanistic insights 
and therapeutic targets for AD intervention.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.152418
PMID: 40737743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


6. Stem Cells. 2025 Jul 30:sxaf055. doi: 10.1093/stmcls/sxaf055. Online ahead of 
print.

Brain pericytes derived from human pluripotent stem cells retain vascular and 
phagocytic functions under hypoxia.

Zhang M(1)(2), Kim Y(1)(2), Bosworth A(1)(2), T C W J(3), Nih LR(4), Kisler 
K(1)(2), Sagare AP(1)(2), Rust R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience, University of Southern California, 
Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA.
(2)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology & Biophysics, Chobanian & Avedisian 
School of Medicine, Boston University, 700 Albany St, Boston, MA 02118, USA.
(4)Department of Brain Health, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine, University of 
Nevada Las Vegas, NV 89154, USA.

The integrity and function of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) are largely 
regulated by pericytes. Pericyte deficiency leads to BBB breakdown and 
neurological dysfunction in major neurological disorders including stroke and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Transplantation of pericytes derived from induced 
pluripotent stem cells (iPSC-PC) has been shown to restore the BBB and improve 
functional recovery in mouse models of stroke and pericyte deficiency. However, 
the molecular profile and functional properties of iPSC-PC under hypoxic 
conditions, similar to those found in ischemic and neurodegenerative diseases 
remain largely unexplored. Here, we demonstrate that iPSC-PC under severe 
hypoxia retain essential functional properties, including key molecular markers, 
proliferation rates, and the ability to migrate to host brain vessels via 
function-associated PDGFRB-PDGF-BB signaling. Additionally, we show that iPSC-PC 
exhibit similar clearance of amyloid beta (Aβ) neurotoxins from AD mouse brain 
sections under both normoxic and hypoxic conditions. These findings suggest that 
iPSC-PC functions are largely resilient to hypoxia, highlighting their potential 
as a promising cell source for treating ischemic and neurodegenerative 
disorders.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/stmcls/sxaf055
PMID: 40737487


7. Sci Adv. 2025 Aug;11(31):eadw1732. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adw1732. Epub 2025 Jul 
30.

A wearable spatiotemporal controllable ultrasonic device with amyloid-β 
disaggregation for continuous Alzheimer's disease therapy.

Zou F(1), Liu Y(2), Luo Y(1), Xu T(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Advanced Study (IAS), Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, Guangdong 
518060, People's Republic of China.
(2)Longgang Central Hospital of Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518116, People's Republic of 
China.

The rising prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) due to an aging population has 
made the search for effective treatments more urgent than ever. Previous studies 
have demonstrated that continuous ultrasound can depolymerize amyloid proteins, 
offering potential relief from AD. In this study, we present a portable, fully 
integrated wearable ultrasound system designed to promote amyloid protein 
depolymerization. The system comprises a flexible honeycomb ultrasonic array 
patch, a flexible printed circuit, and an interactive terminal control system to 
facilitate the treatment process. Our results demonstrate that the system 
effectively reduces amyloid proteins in the brain, improves cognitive function 
in a familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) mouse model, enhances microglial 
phagocytosis of amyloid-β plaques, and shifts microglia polarization from M1 to 
M2. These changes contribute to a mitigated inflammatory environment in the 
brain. This innovative approach may pave the way for noninvasive, personalized 
treatments for AD, potentially transforming therapeutic strategies in 
neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adw1732
PMCID: PMC12309685
PMID: 40737409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Aug;40(8):e70137. doi: 10.1002/gps.70137.

Dose-Response Association of Handgrip Strength With Alzheimer's Disease: A 
Longitudinal Study Involving 85,979 Adults.

Núñez-Cortés R(1)(2), Calatayud J(3)(4), Calonge-Pascual S(5), Andersen LL(3), 
Bláfoss R(3)(6), López-Gil JF(7)(8), López-Bueno R(3)(4)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Physiotherapy in Motion Multispeciality Research 
Group (PTinMOTION), University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Chile, 
Santiago, Chile.
(3)National Research Centre for the Working Environment, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Physiotherapy, Exercise Intervention for Health Research Group 
(EXINH-RG), University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
(5)REDAFLED Research Group, Departamento de Didáctica de la Expresión Musical, 
Plástica y Corporal, Facultad de Educación, Universidad de Valladolid, Soria, 
Spain.
(6)Research Unit for Muscle Physiology and Biomechanics, Department of Sports 
Science and Clinical Biomechanics, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark.
(7)School of Medicine, Universidad Espíritu Santo, Samborondón, Ecuador.
(8)Vicerrectoría de Investigación y Postgrado, Universidad de Los Lagos, Osorno, 
Chile.
(9)Department of Physical Medicine and Nursing, University of Zaragoza, 
Zaragoza, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the dose-response relationship between handgrip 
strength and incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in middle-aged and older 
adults.
DESIGN: Longitudinal study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A longitudinal study was conducted in people over 50 years 
old in 27 European countries and Israel. Data were collected from waves 1, 2, 4, 
5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE) 
between February 2004 and January 2021. Handgrip strength was measured with a 
hand dynamometer. AD was self-reported based on previous diagnosis. 
Dose-response associations were assessed by restricted cubic splines.
RESULTS: A total of 85,979 (55.8% female) participants were followed for a 
median of 9.3 years. Over this time, 3324 (3.9%) developed AD. In the adjusted 
model, for participants < 65 years, those in the middle third of handgrip 
strength showed a lower risk of AD compared to the lower third (HR = 0.63, 95% 
CI: 0.47-0.84), as well as participants in the upper third (HR = 0.63, 95% CI: 
0.47-0.85). The spline model determined that the minimum and optimal doses of 
handgrip strength for a significant reduction in the risk of AD for those aged 
< 65 years were 54 kg (HR = 0.99; 95% CI: 0.08-0.99) and 56 kg (HR = 0.27; 95% 
CI: 0.08-0.91), respectively. Among those aged ≥ 65 years, the minimum and 
optimal doses were 31 kg (HR = 0.69; 95% CI: 0.48-0.99) and 49 kg (HR = 0.57; 
95% CI: 0.43-0.76), respectively.
CONCLUSION: Higher levels of handgrip strength showed a lower risk of developing 
AD, among adults aged 50 years and over. However, the dose-response relationship 
is limited to specific ranges according to age group. We identified a range 
between 54 and 56 kg years and a range between 31 and 49 kg as suitable to 
prevent AD in adults aged 50-64 and ≥ 65 years, respectively. Routine assessment 
of hand grip strength can help healthcare professionals identify people at 
increased risk of AD. Strength-based interventions could provide a practical 
strategy to support cognitive health and reduce the risk of dementia in clinical 
practice.

© 2025 The Author(s). International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.70137
PMCID: PMC12309640
PMID: 40736876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


9. Mol Biol Rep. 2025 Jul 30;52(1):771. doi: 10.1007/s11033-025-10878-5.

Effect of natural compounds on NRF2/KEAP1 signaling in periodontitis: a 
potential use to prevent age-related disorders.

Tossetta G(1)(2), Fantone S(3), Olivieri F(4)(5), Mazzucchelli R(2), Togni L(6), 
Santarelli A(6)(7), Marzioni D(8)(9), Rippo MR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, Università Politecnica 
delle Marche, Ancona, 60126, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Public Health, Section of Pathological 
Anatomy, Università Politecnica delle Marche, United Hospitals, Ancona, Italy.
(3)Scientific Direction, IRCCS INRCA, Ancona, 60124, Italy. s.fantone@inrca.it.
(4)Scientific Direction, IRCCS INRCA, Ancona, 60124, Italy.
(5)Department of Clinical and Molecular Sciences, DISCLIMO, Università 
Politecnica delle Marche, Ancona, 60126, Italy.
(6)Department of Clinical Specialistic and Dental Sciences, Università 
Politecnica delle Marche, Ancona, 60126, Italy.
(7)Dentistry Clinic, National Institute of Health and Science of Aging, IRCCS 
INRCA, Ancona, 60126, Italy.
(8)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, Università Politecnica 
delle Marche, Ancona, 60126, Italy. d.marzioni@univpm.it.
(9)IRCCS INRCA, Ancona, 60124, Italy. d.marzioni@univpm.it.

40% of the population over 60 years of age is affected by periodontitis which is 
characterized by chronic inflammation, periodontal damage and alveolar bone 
resorption. The nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NFE2L2 or NRF2)/ 
Kelch-like ECH-Associated Protein 1 (KEAP1) (NRF2/KEAP1) signaling pathway plays 
a key role in periodontitis modulating redox balance and periodontium 
inflammation. However, NRF2 expression decreases in gingival tissues of severe 
periodontitis patients while Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) levels are increased 
during periodontitis. ROS and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) produced by gram-negative 
bacteria favor the production of inflammatory cytokines, then causing 
periodontal inflammation and favoring alveolar bone loss (due to excessive 
osteoclast formation and activation). Periodontitis has also been associated to 
the development of age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's 
and Parkinson's diseases since the increased cytokines levels and the bacteria 
themselves present in the periodontium can easily reach the brain due to their 
anatomical proximity. Thus, periodontitis could be considered a risk factor for 
the development of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. In this review we 
explored the role of NRF2/KEAP1 signaling activation in in vitro and in vivo 
models of periodontitis to suggest potential treatments of periodontitis and 
avoid/delay the development of age-related neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-025-10878-5
PMCID: PMC12310809
PMID: 40736688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


10. Am Fam Physician. 2025 Jul;112(1):34-41.

Top 20 Research Studies of 2024 for Primary Care Physicians.

Grad R(1), Ebell MH(2).

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(2)Michigan State University, East Lansing.

This article summarizes the top 20 research studies of 2024 identified as POEMs 
(patient-oriented evidence that matters). Based on a network meta-analysis, the 
oral antibiotics most likely to be effective for community-acquired pneumonia 
are telithromycin (not available in the United States), azithromycin, 
amoxicillin-clavulanate, and the quinolones levofloxacin and nemonoxacin (not 
available in the United States). The oral antivirals molnupiravir and 
nirmatrelvir-ritonavir reduce hospitalizations in immunocompromised patients 
with COVID-19. In average-risk infants, a single dose of nirsevimab reduces 
hospitalizations due to respiratory syncytial virus. Amoxicillin with or without 
clavulanate is more effective than placebo for children with symptoms of acute 
sinusitis. Benzyl benzoate 25% is highly effective for scabies in adolescents 
and adults. Lactobacillus-containing probiotics reduce the incidence of 
recurrent urinary tract infections (UTIs) in premenopausal women with frequent 
UTIs. Low-dose amitriptyline is effective as second-line therapy for irritable 
bowel syndrome. For patients with uncomplicated gallstones, conservative 
management is a reasonable option. Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT-2) 
inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are better than 
older drugs at improving patient-oriented outcomes for type 2 diabetes. 
Continuous or intermittent glucose monitoring is minimally effective for control 
of type 2 diabetes and can be harmful. Phentermine-topiramate and GLP-1 receptor 
agonists are the most effective drugs for promoting weight loss. Semaglutide is 
effective for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in people with 
obesity and no diabetes. SGLT-2 inhibitors and GLP-1 receptor agonists decrease 
cardiovascular death in older adults with type 2 diabetes and heart failure. 
Beta blockers do not prevent subsequent events after myocardial infarction in 
patients with preserved ejection fraction. For patients who do not quit smoking 
after a trial of varenicline or combined nicotine replacement therapy, a higher 
dose of either drug can increase quit rates. e-Cigarettes increase abstinence 
from smoking, but long-term vaping is a consequence for some. Oral naltrexone 
and acamprosate are safe and effective treatments for alcohol use disorder. 
Cognitive behavior therapy can reduce fatigue attributed to long COVID. New 
monoclonal antibodies for Alzheimer disease are harmful, expensive, and 
minimally effective. Clinicians may choose to deliver bad news in person or by 
telephone, using their judgment or patient preference to decide which is best 
for the patient.

PMID: 40736492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Am Fam Physician. 2025 Jul;112(1):22-23.

Benzgalantamine (Zunveyl) for the Treatment of Mild to Moderate Alzheimer 
Disease.

Johnston EM, Lounsbery JL.

PMID: 40736488


12. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2025 Jul 25;97Suppl. 2(Suppl. 2):e20241163. doi: 
10.1590/0001-3765202520241163.

New Tacrine Dimers Alleviate the Intracellular Amyloid-β-induced Cognitive 
Disturbance and Oxidative Stress in Mice.

Gonçalves AE(1), Spigariol O(1), Silva LMD(1)(2), Rego YF(3), Herrera-Arozamena 
C(4), Rodríguez-Franco MI(4), Fátima Â(3), Doring TH(5), Araujo LA(6), Macedo 
MLR(6), Saba S(6), Rafique J(6)(7), Oliveira AS(5), Souza MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade do Vale do Itajaí (UNIVALI), Programa de Pós-Graduação em 
Ciências Farmacêuticas, Rua Uruguai, 468, 88301-320 Itajaí, SC, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC), Laboratório de Farmacologia do 
Trato Gastrointestinal e suas Interações, Programa de Pós-graduação em 
Farmacologia, Campus Universitário, s/n, Sala 208, Bloco E, Prédio 
Administrativo, Córrego Grande, Trindade, 88040-900 Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.
(3)Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG), GEQOB, Departamento de Química, 
ICEx, Av. Pres. Antônio Carlos, 6627, Pampulha, 31270-901 Belo Horizonte, MG, 
Brazil.
(4)Instituto de Química Médica, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas 
(IQM-CSIC), C/ Juan de la Cierva 3, E-28006 Madrid, Spain.
(5)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC), Departamento de Ciências 
Exatas e Educação, Rua João Pessoa, 2750, Bairro Velha, 89036-002 Blumenau, SC, 
Brazil.
(6)Universidade Federal de Goiás (UFG), LabSO, Instituto de Química (IQ), Av. 
Esperança, s/n, Campus Samambaia, 74690-900 Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(7)Universidade Federal do Mato Grosso do Sul (UFMS), Centro de Pesquisa e 
Inovação em Bioprospecção e Síntese de Produtos para a Saúde Humana e Animal 
(CIBSint), Instituto de Química (INQUI), Av. Costa e Silva, s/n, 79074-460 Campo 
Grande, MS, Brazil.

This study aimed to investigate <italic>in vivo</italic> and 
<italic>ex-vivo</italic> the effects of tacrine dimers (TD1, TD2, TD3 and TD4) 
in mice with Alzheimer's disease (AD) induced by amyloid peptide 
(A<italic>β</italic>42) and, respectively, evaluated in behavioral tests of 
cognition, oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. All dimers reduced the 
cognitive deficit caused by A<italic>β</italic>42, oxidative stress and 
neuroinflammation, especially the compound TD4. By ADMET analysis (SwissADME and 
pkCSM 2.10 platforms), TD4 exhibited favorable pharmacokinetic properties with 
the control drug. The results suggest a therapeutic potential for AD for these 
compounds, given their distinct cognitive and neuroprotective effects in AD 
models induced by A<italic>β</italic>42.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765202520241163
PMID: 40736114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Curr Top Med Chem. 2025 Jul 28. doi: 10.2174/0115680266397447250723073446. 
Online ahead of print.

Nanotechnological Approaches for Mitochondrial Targeting in Neurodegenerative 
Diseases.

Ergin AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department Pharmaceutical Technology, Trakya University, Edirne, Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: Mitochondria are dynamic organelles essential for energy metabolism 
and cellular homeostasis, playing critical roles in ATP production, calcium 
regulation, redox balance, and apoptosis. However, mitochondrial dysfunction is 
a central factor in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, including 
Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease, and 
Parkinson's disease. Given the essential role of mitochondria in neuronal 
survival, targeted therapeutic strategies that restore mitochondrial function 
have gained significant attention. This review explores the latest advances in 
mitochondrial-targeted therapies and their potential applications in 
neurodegenerative diseases.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature review was conducted on 
mitochondrial-targeted therapeutic strategies, with a focus on 
nanotechnology-based drug delivery systems. The analysis includes various 
nanoparticle-based approaches, such as liposomes, DQAsomes, and polymeric 
nanoparticles, which have demonstrated high biocompatibility, controlled drug 
release, and enhanced mitochondrial targeting efficiency. Additionally, 
mitochondria-penetrating peptides and delocalized lipophilic cations (DLCs) are 
discussed for their role in improving drug localization within mitochondria and 
overcoming biological barriers, including the blood-brain barrier (BBB).
RESULTS: Recent research shows the potential of mitochondrial-targeted 
antioxidants, peptides, and biocompatible nanocarriers in arranging 
mitochondrial dysfunction and protecting neurons from oxidative damage. Various 
nanoparticle-based drug delivery systems have demonstrated the ability to 
selectively target mitochondria, improving drug bioavailability, therapeutic 
efficacy, and neuroprotective outcomes in neurodegenerative diseases.
CONCLUSION: Mitochondria-targeted therapies provide promising avenues for 
disease-modifying treatments aimed at preserving neuronal integrity and delaying 
disease progression. The unique properties of nanoparticles, such as their 
ability to enhance drug stability, facilitate controlled release, and achieve 
precise mitochondrial localization, make them valuable tools for 
neurodegenerative disease therapy. Future research should focus on optimizing 
delivery systems, validating clinical applicability, and exploring 
interdisciplinary approaches to accelerate translation into effective 
treatments.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115680266397447250723073446
PMID: 40735987


14. Curr Top Med Chem. 2025 Jul 28. doi: 10.2174/0115680266373008250723064558. 
Online ahead of print.

Exploring the Carbonic Anhydrase Activation Properties of 4-arylazo-3,5- 
diamino-1H-pyrazoles against hCA I, II, IV, and VII isoenzymes.

Akocak S(1), Lolak N(1), Ammara A(2), Güler ÖÖ(3), Supuran CT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Adıyaman 
University, 02040 Adıyaman, Türkiye.
(2)Università degli Studi di Firenze, NEUROFARBA Dept., Sezione di Scienze 
Farmaceutiche, via Ugo Schiff 6, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino (Florence), Italy.
(3)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Ankara Yıldırım Beyazıt 
University, Ankara, Türkiye.

INTRODUCTION: CAs serve as crucial enzymes involved in a variety of 
physiological processes, including brain metabolism and cognitive function. hCA 
VII, a brain-associated isoform, plays an important role in modulating cerebral 
metabolism. Activating hCA VII may provide therapeutic benefits in Alzheimer's 
disease and other neurodegenerative or age-related illnesses. This study 
proposes to add to the growing interest in CAAs by developing innovative drugs 
with selective activation characteristics that target brain-associated CA 
isoforms.
METHOD: A series of 4-arylazo-3,5-diamino-1H-pyrazoles have been produced by 
reacting aniline and aniline derivatives with a malononitrile solution at 0-5 
°C, resulting in compounds 1(a-m). Then, arylazo malononitrile compounds were 
added with hydrazine monohydrate to obtain 4- arylazo-3,5-diamino-1H-pyrazole 
derivatives 2(a-m). The activity of the synthesized compounds was examined on 
human CA isoforms I, II, IV, and VII to determine activation potency and 
selectivity.
RESULTS: The synthesized compounds demonstrated a wide spectrum of strong 
micromolar activation on human CA isoforms, with particularly encouraging 
results for hCA VII. The discovered activators showed a high selectivity profile 
for the brain-associated hCA VII isoform, indicating their potential use in 
neurological methods of therapy.
DISCUSSION: Among the most compelling findings of this study is the 
unprecedented potency of several synthesized derivatives, particularly 2i and 
2m, in selectively activating hCA VII far beyond the benchmark histamine, 
positioning them as promising pharmacological candidates for addressing 
CA-related neurological disorders.
CONCLUSION: The research successfully discovered potent and selective CAAs with 
specific activity against hCA VII, a key enzyme in brain metabolism. These 
outcomes offer novel possibilities for developing medicinal products for 
neurological disorders and provide critical molecules for further study into 
CAAs. Furthermore, the study advances our understanding of enzyme activation 
kinetics and gives significant insights into the future of enzyme-based 
treatment research.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115680266373008250723064558
PMID: 40735986


15. Curr Gene Ther. 2025 Jul 28. doi: 10.2174/0115665232389348250722073721.
Online  ahead of print.

Pathogens Association with Alzheimer Disease: Emerging Concepts and New 
Perspectives.

Agarwal U(1), Tonk RK(1), Verma S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences & 
Research University, Delhi, 110017, India.
(2)Pharmaceutical Chemistry Division, School of Medical and Allied Sciences, 
K.R. Mangalam University, Gurugram, 122103, India.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) represents a significant global health challenge, 
distinguished by a complex pathology that involves the accumulation of abnormal 
proteins in the brain, leading to neuronal loss and brain atrophy. Recent 
research has indicated a potential association between various pathogens and the 
development of AD, suggesting that infectious pathogens may play a role in its 
pathology. The study focuses on the exploration of pathogens linked to AD. It 
aims to enhance the understanding of the disease's etiopathogenesis, which 
refers to the causes and development of the condition. The findings from this 
analysis have the potential to contribute to improved diagnostic methods and 
treatment strategies for AD. Overall, the manuscript highlights the importance 
of exploring infectious pathogens relating to neurodegenerative disorders. This 
comprehensive literature review was conducted using databases such as PubMed and 
Scopus, focusing on research published up to March 2025. Articles were searched 
based on keywords related to reviews and research exploring the association/link 
between different pathogens and AD, emerging interventions, preventive 
strategies, and limitations in study design. This study indicates that various 
viruses, bacteria, and fungi are significant contributors to the condition, 
while parasites and prions play a lesser role. Notably, the variability in 
pathogen species among patients could provide insights into the evolution and 
severity of clinical symptoms associated with the disease. Additionally, some 
studies propose that after modification, certain fungi may actually reduce the 
amyloid burden in Alzheimer's patients. However, it is crucial to emphasize that 
there is currently no definitive evidence supporting the notion that treating 
infections alone can prevent or cure AD. The prevention and treatment of 
pathogens, including viruses, bacteria, and fungi, as well as infectious prions, 
may play a significant role in reducing the risk of AD. Effective management of 
these pathogens can help to control and prevent further damage in individuals 
who have already been diagnosed with AD. There is a pressing need for additional 
pre-clinical and clinical research to deepen the understanding of the 
pathophysiological connections between pathogens and AD.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115665232389348250722073721
PMID: 40735980


16. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Jul 15;12:1590201. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1590201.
 eCollection 2025.

An explainable and efficient deep learning framework for EEG-based diagnosis of 
Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia.

Khan W(1), Khan MS(2), Qasem SN(3)(4), Ghaban W(5), Saeed F(6), Hanif M(7), 
Ahmad J(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cybersecurity, Pakistan Navy Engineering College, National 
University of Sciences and Technology, Karachi, Pakistan.
(2)School of Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment, Edinburgh Napier 
University, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(3)Computer Science Department, College of Computer and Information Sciences, 
Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic University (IMSIU), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(4)King Salman Center for Disability Research, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Applied College, University of Tabuk, Tabuk, Saudi Arabia.
(6)College of Computing, Birmingham City University, Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(7)Department of Informatics, School of Business, Örebro Universitet, Örebro, 
Sweden.
(8)Cybersecurity Center, Prince Mohammad Bin Fahd University, Al-Khobar, Saudi 
Arabia.

The early and accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease and Frontotemporal 
Dementia remains a critical challenge, particularly with traditional machine 
learning models which often fail to provide transparency in their predictions, 
reducing user confidence and treatment effectiveness. To address these 
limitations, this paper introduces an explainable and lightweight deep learning 
framework comprising temporal convolutional networks and long short-term memory 
networks that efficiently classifies Frontotemporal dementia (FTD), Alzheimer's 
Disease (AD), and healthy controls using electroencephalogram (EEG) data. 
Feature engineering has been conducted using modified Relative Band Power (RBP) 
analysis, leveraging six EEG frequency bands extracted through power spectrum 
density (PSD) calculations. The model achieves high classification accuracies of 
99.7% for binary tasks and 80.34% for multi-class classification. Furthermore, 
to enhance the transparency and interpretability of the framework, SHAP (SHapley 
Additive exPlanations) has been utilized as an explainable artificial 
intelligence technique that provides insights into feature contributions.

Copyright © 2025 Khan, Khan, Qasem, Ghaban, Saeed, Hanif and Ahmad.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1590201
PMCID: PMC12303882
PMID: 40735445

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


17. Clin Neuropsychiatry. 2025 Jun;22(3):207-214. doi: 
10.36131/cnfioritieditore20250304.

Medical Comorbidities in Alzheimer's Disease: An Autopsy Confirmed Study with a 
Focus on Sex-Differences?

Luca A(1), Luca M(2), Ferri R(3), Barbanti M(1), Malaguarnera R(1), Pecorino 
B(1), Scollo P(1), Serretti A(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and surgery, Kore University of Enna, Italy.
(2)Centre for Addiction, Adrano-Bronte, Italy.
(3)Oasi Research Institute-IRCCS, Troina, Italyly.

OBJECTIVE: Systemic comorbidities are common in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and may 
influence disease progression, severity, and management. Aim of the study was to 
assess the prevalence of comorbid medical conditions in a large cohort of AD 
patients, focusing on sex differences.
METHOD: AD patients from the NIMH Alzheimer Disease Genetics Initiative were 
enrolled. Data on multimorbidity, demographics, disease characteristics, and 
clinical assessments were collected from interviews, medical records, and 
examinations. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression models were 
performed to identify possible associations between comorbidities and sex. 
Subgroup analysis was performed for patients with autopsy-confirmed AD.
RESULTS: Four hundred and twenty-four AD patients (295 women; mean age: 78.4±8.3 
years) were included. Men had a higher prevalence of heart disease, diabetes, 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and smoking, whereas thyroid disease, 
hypertension and depression were more common in women (all p<0.05). Except for 
hypertension, all associations found in the univariate analysis were confirmed 
in the multivariate analysis after adjustment for age. Subgroup analysis of 
autopsy-confirmed cases confirmed these findings.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support the importance of considering sex-specific 
comorbidities in AD for precision medicine and emphasize the need for 
comprehensive assessment of comorbidities to improve clinical outcomes, 
treatment strategies and health equity.nt.

© 2025 Giovanni Fioriti Editore s.r.l.

DOI: 10.36131/cnfioritieditore20250304
PMCID: PMC12302816
PMID: 40735383

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


18. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jul 15;17:1610350. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1610350.  eCollection 2025.

Dysregulated calcium signaling in the aged primate association cortices: 
vulnerability to Alzheimer's disease neuropathology.

Arnsten AFT(1), Perone I(1), Wang M(1), Yang S(1), Uchendu S(1), Bolat D(1), 
Datta D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Yale Medical School, New Haven, CT, United 
States.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, CT, 
United States.

The common, late onset form of Alzheimer's disease (AD) selectively impacts 
higher brain circuits, with tau pathology and neurodegeneration preferentially 
afflicting glutamatergic neurons in the limbic and association cortices. 
Understanding this selective vulnerability may help reveal the etiology of 
sporadic AD and therapeutic targets for prevention. The current review describes 
that these vulnerable circuits express magnified calcium signaling needed for 
higher cognition and memory, but that heightened calcium signaling becomes toxic 
when dysregulated by age and inflammation. Many of the earliest pathological 
events in AD are challenging to study in human brain, as proteins such as tau 
rapidly dephosphorylate postmortem. However, they can be studied in aging 
macaques, who are all APOE-ε4 homozygotes and naturally develop cognitive 
deficits, calcium dysregulation, synapse loss, tau and amyloid pathology and 
autophagic degeneration, including elevated plasma pT217Tau, a new blood 
biomarker of incipient AD. High resolution nanoscale imaging of aging macaque 
brains reveals the earliest stages of soluble tau pathology and its 
relationships with Aβ42 and calcium signaling. These data indicate that 
inflammation erodes regulation of calcium signaling leading to the activation of 
calpain-2, which drives tau hyperphosphorylation, APP cleavage to Aβ42 and 
autophagic degeneration. These in turn propel further calcium dysregulation to 
drive vicious cycles. Restoring calcium dysregulation, e.g., with calpain-2 
inhibitors, thus may be a rational strategy for slowing or preventing AD 
pathology. Recent data show that an agent that reduces GCPII inflammation and 
restores mGluR3 regulation of calcium reduced tau pathology in aged macaques, 
encouraging this approach. Targeting inflammation and dysregulated calcium may 
be especially helpful for patients who are APOE-ε4 carriers and insufficiently 
aided by current anti-amyloid antibody treatments.

Copyright © 2025 Arnsten, Perone, Wang, Yang, Uchendu, Bolat and Datta.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1610350
PMCID: PMC12303958
PMID: 40735190

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


19. Int Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2025 Jul 25;29(3):1-7. doi:
10.1055/s-0045-1802579.  eCollection 2025 Jul.

Immediate Effect of Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation on Swallowing in 
Elderly People with Alzheimer's Dementia.

Ribeiro EG(1), Oliveira CMDS(2), Mourão AM(1), Vicente LCC(1), Motta AR(1), 
Honório HM(3), Berretin-Felix G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Speech Therapy, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
(2)Department of Speech Therapy, Faculdade de Odontologia de Bauru, Universidade 
de São Paulo, Bauru, SP, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, Orthodontics, and Public Health, Faculdade 
de Odontologia de Bauru, Universidade de São Paulo, Bauru, SP, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Dysphagia affects a significant number of patients with 
Alzheimer's dementia. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation may be a promising 
resource for dysphagia rehabilitation in this population.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the immediate effects of neuromuscular electrical 
stimulation on hyoid bone displacement, pharyngeal transit time, and swallowing 
safety in elderly people with Alzheimer's dementia.
METHODS: We evaluated 30 elderly individuals with an average age of 82.79 years, 
regardless of the stage of dementia and with reduced hyolaryngeal elevation, 
using the Northwestern Dysphagia Patient Check Sheet. Neuromuscular electrical 
stimulation was performed at the sensory and motor levels in the submental 
region during videofluoroscopy, with food being offered in solid, pudding, and 
liquid consistencies, and in portions of 5 mL and 10 mL. We applied Analysis of 
variance and the Friedman test, adopting a significance level of < 5%.
RESULTS: The comparison between the sensory and motor levels of stimulation 
showed that there was a significant difference in hyoid bone displacement for 
the mushy consistency, with neuromuscular stimulation at the motor level. There 
was no difference in the application of stimuli for the other consistencies 
regarding hyoid bone displacement, pharyngeal transit time, and the penetration 
and aspiration scale.
CONCLUSION: In elderly people with Alzheimer's dementia, neuromuscular 
electrical stimulation at the motor level generated a reduction in hyoid bone 
displacement during swallowing of food with pudding consistency, with no effects 
on pharyngeal transit time or swallowing safety.

The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the 
terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, permitting 
copying and reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate 
credit ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).

DOI: 10.1055/s-0045-1802579
PMCID: PMC12302327
PMID: 40735128

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests The authors have no 
conflict of interests to declare.


20. Front Cell Neurosci. 2025 Jul 15;19:1650938. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1650938.
 eCollection 2025.

Editorial: Recent advances in mitochondrial dysfunction and therapeutics for 
neurodegeneration and aging.

Sen MK(#)(1), Dunville K(#)(2), Miles N(3), Newbery M(#)(3), Ng NS(#)(3), Ooi 
L(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health, Charles Perkins Centre, School of Medical 
Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience and Centre for Algorithms of the 
Cortex, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, 
Norway.
(3)Molecular Horizons and School of Chemistry and Molecular Bioscience, 
University of Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW, Australia.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment on
    Editorial on the Research Topic Recent advances in mitochondrial dysfunction 
and therapeutics for neurodegeneration and aging.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1650938
PMCID: PMC12303997
PMID: 40735110

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


21. Alzheimers Dement (Amst). 2025 Jul 29;17(3):e70151. doi: 10.1002/dad2.70151. 
eCollection 2025 Jul-Sep.

Apathy and affective symptoms associated with elevated plasma neurofilament 
light but not p-tau181 in Alzheimer's disease.

Kang MJY(1)(2), Eratne D(1)(2), Loi SM(1)(2), Dang C(3)(4), Santillo AF(5), 
Zetterberg H(6)(7)(8)(9)(10)(11), Blennow K(6)(7)(12)(13), Mitchell PB(14), 
Hopwood M(2)(15), Malpas CB(16)(17), Velakoulis D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatry Centre The Royal Melbourne Hospital Melbourne Victoria 
Australia.
(2)Department of Psychiatry The University of Melbourne Melbourne Victoria 
Australia.
(3)National Ageing Research Institute Melbourne Victoria Australia.
(4)Department of General Practice The University of Melbourne Melbourne Victoria 
Australia.
(5)Department of Clinical Sciences Clinical Memory Research Unit Faculty of 
Medicine Lund University Malmö Sweden.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg Mölndal Sweden.
(7)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory Sahlgrenska University Hospital Mölndal 
Sweden.
(8)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease Queen Square Institute of Neurology 
University College London, Queen Square London UK.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL London UK.
(10)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases Clear Water Bay Hong Kong 
China.
(11)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health University of Wisconsin-Madison Madison Wisconsin 
USA.
(12)Paris Brain Institute, ICM Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital Sorbonne University 
Paris France.
(13)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC Hefei Anhui P.R. China.
(14)Discipline of Psychiatry and Mental Health School of Clinical Medicine 
Faculty of Medicine and Health The University of New South Wales Sydney New 
South Wales Australia.
(15)Professorial Psychiatry Unit Ramsay Clinic Albert Road Melbourne Victoria 
Australia.
(16)Department of Medicine Melbourne Medical School University of Melbourne 
Melbourne Victoria Australia.
(17)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences University of Melbourne Melbourne 
Victoria Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Apathy and affective neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) are prevalent 
in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet their neurobiological cause is still unclear. 
We examined associations between plasma neurofilament light chain (NfL) and tau 
pathology (p-tau181) with apathy and affective symptoms in mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) and AD dementia.
METHODS: This longitudinal study analyzed data from 781 participants with MCI 
and AD dementia enrolled in ADNI, with annual blood samples collected over 4 
years. NPS were assessed via the Neuropsychiatric Interview (NPI), and biomarker 
trajectories were analyzed using mixed-effects models.
RESULTS: Elevated plasma NfL levels were associated with apathy, anxiety and 
depression in MCI and AD dementia, with apathy linked to a significantly higher 
rate of NfL increase, indicating accelerated neurodegeneration.
DISCUSSION: Apathy and affective symptoms may indicate greater neurodegenerative 
burden in AD independent of tau-related pathology. Apathy was associated with a 
steeper rise in plasma NfL, suggesting a more aggressive disease progression.
HIGHLIGHTS: Apathy and affective neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) are highly 
prevalent in clinical Alzheimer's disease (AD).The presence of apathy, 
depression or anxiety was associated with higher plasma levels of neurofilament 
light chain (NfL).Apathy was associated with an accelerated increase in plasma 
NfL levels over time.Apathy and affective NPS were not associated with p-tau181 
levels in plasma.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease 
Monitoring published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/dad2.70151
PMCID: PMC12305118
PMID: 40735049

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures 
sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). K.B. has served as a consultant and at advisory boards 
for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac 
Pte. Ltd., Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, Sanofi 
and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees for Julius 
Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials and 
participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, 
Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, 
outside the work presented in this paper. S.L. has received honorarium from 
Lundbeck and Otsuka. M.H. has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for 
Boehringer‐Ingelheim, Cortexa, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Lundbeck, Novartis, Otsuka, 
Orion, Servier and Takeda. He has received research support from Alto 
Neuroscience, Boehringer‐Ingelheim, Douglas, Janssen, and Lyndra. P.B.M. has 
received honoraria from Janssen (Australia) for lectures and advisory board 
membership. The remaining authors declare no conflicts of interest. Author 
disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


22. Plast Reconstr Surg Glob Open. 2025 Jul 29;13(7):e6955. doi: 
10.1097/GOX.0000000000006955. eCollection 2025 Jul.

Linking Lymphedema, Chronic Inflammation, Oxidative Stress, Alzheimer Disease, 
and Potential Role of Lymphaticovenous Anastomosis.

Yang JC(1)(2)(3), Kuo PJ(1)(2), Chang C(1)(2)(4), Wang YM(2)(5), Ou YC(2)(6)(7), 
Cheng YC(1)(2), Wu SC(2)(8), Chien PC(1)(2), Hsieh CH(1)(2), Lin WC(2)(9).

Author information:
(1)From the Lymphedema Center, Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 
Department of Surgery, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan.
(2)College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Xiamen Changgung Hospital, 
Xiamen, Fujian, China.
(4)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Royal Victoria Infirmary, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Chiayi Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
Chiayi, Taiwan.
(8)Department of Anesthesiology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(9)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Lymphedema and Alzheimer disease (AD) share common mechanisms 
involving oxidative stress and chronic inflammation. However, the link between 
these 2 conditions and the impact of lymphaticovenous anastomosis (LVA) has not 
been fully explored. This study aimed to evaluate their association by examining 
changes in AD biomarkers, inflammatory cytokines, and oxidative stress markers 
before and after LVA.
METHODS: Twenty-four patients with unilateral lower limb lymphedema who 
underwent LVA as primary treatment and 18 healthy controls were recruited. 
Exclusion criteria included previous LVA, liposuction, or excisional surgery. 
Venous blood samples were obtained before and 1 month after LVA.
RESULTS: After matching, 15 patients remained in each group. The lymphedema 
group had significantly elevated levels of t-tau (p < 0.001), amyloid beta 
(Aβ)1-40 (P = 0.033), Aβ1-42 (P = 0.033), Aβ1-42 × t-tau (P < 0.001), and 
Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratio (P = 0.021) compared with controls. One month post-LVA, 
there were significant reductions in t-tau (P = 0.007) and Aβ1-42 × t-tau (P = 
0.002), and a notable increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (P = 0.006). 
Post-LVA samples also showed significant improvements in antioxidative enzymes, 
antioxidant capacity, and reductions in lipid peroxidation. Inflammatory 
cytokine levels were also significantly reduced, indicating decreased oxidative 
stress and inflammation. The median follow-up period was 6.3 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest a possible association between lymphedema and 
increased AD risk possibly linked to elevated oxidative stress and inflammation. 
LVA may modulate this risk by reducing AD biomarkers and systemic 
inflammation/oxidative stress, supporting further investigation into its 
neuroprotective potential.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf 
of The American Society of Plastic Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000006955
PMCID: PMC12306703
PMID: 40734951

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial interest to 
declare in relation to the content of this article. This study was supported by 
the grant CMRPG8N0091 from Chang Gung Memorial Hospital.


23. Hippocampus. 2025 Sep;35(5):e70027. doi: 10.1002/hipo.70027.

Developing an Anatomically Valid Segmentation Protocol for Anterior Regions of 
the Medial Temporal Lobe for Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Sadeghpour N(1), Lim SA(1), Wuestefeld A(2), Denning AE(1), Ittyerah R(1), 
Trotman W(3), Chung E(1), Sadaghiani S(3), Prabhakaran K(1), Bedard ML(1), Ohm 
DT(3), Artacho-Pérula E(4), de Onzoño Martin MMI(4), Muñoz M(4), Romero FJM(4), 
González JCD(4), Del Arroyo Jiménez M(4), Del Marcos Rabal M(4), Insausti 
Serrano AM(5), González NV(4), Sánchez SC(4), de la Rosa Prieto C(4), Insausti 
R(4), McMillan C(3), Lee EB(6), Detre JA(1)(3), Das SR(3), Xie L(7), Tisdall 
MD(1), Irwin DJ(3), Wolk DA(3), Yushkevich PA(1), Wisse LEM(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Human Neuroanatomy Laboratory, Neuromax CSIC Associated Unit, University of 
Castilla-La Mancha and Institute for Biomedicine, Albacete, Spain.
(5)Health Sciences Faculty, Public University of Navarre, Spain.
(6)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(7)Department of Digital Technology and Innovation, Siemens Healthineers, 
Princeton, New Jersey, USA.
(8)Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2025 Feb 13:2025.02.11.637506. doi: 10.1101/2025.02.11.637506.

The anterior portion of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) is one of the first 
regions targeted by pathology in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy (LATE) indicating a 
potential for metrics from this region to serve as imaging biomarkers. 
Leveraging a unique post-mortem dataset of histology and magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) scans, we aimed to (1) develop an anatomically valid segmentation 
protocol for anterior entorhinal cortex (ERC), Brodmann area (BA) 35, and BA36 
for in vivo 3 T MRI and (2) incorporate this protocol in an automated approach. 
We included 20 cases (61-97 years old, 50% females) with and without 
neurodegenerative diseases (11 vs. 9 cases) to ensure generalizability of the 
developed protocol. Digitized MTL Nissl-stained coronal histology sections from 
these cases were annotated and registered to same-subject post-mortem MRI. The 
protocol was developed by determining the location of histological borders of 
the MTL cortices in relation to anatomical landmarks. Subsequently, the protocol 
was applied to 15 cases twice, with a 2-week interval, to assess intra-rater 
reliability with the Dice Similarity Index (DSI). Thereafter, it was implemented 
in our in-house Automatic Segmentation of Hippocampal Subfields (ASHS)-T1 
approach and evaluated with DSIs. The anterior histological border distances of 
ERC, BA35 and BA36 were evaluated with respect to various anatomical landmarks, 
and the distance relative to the beginning of the hippocampus was chosen. To 
formulate segmentation rules, we examined the histological sections for the 
location of borders in relationship to anatomical landmarks in the coronal 
sections. The DSI for the anterior MTL cortices for the intra-rater reliability 
was 0.85-0.88, and for the ASHS-T1 against the manual segmentation, it was 
0.62-0.65. We developed a reliable segmentation protocol and incorporated it in 
an automated approach. Given the vulnerability of the anterior MTL cortices to 
tau deposition in AD and LATE, the updated approach is expected to improve 
imaging biomarkers for these diseases.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hipo.70027
PMCID: PMC12361719
PMID: 40734544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: David A. Wolk has served as a paid consultant to 
Eli Lilly, GE Healthcare, and Qynapse. He serves on a DSMB for Functional 
Neuromodulation and GSK. He receives research support paid to his institution 
from Biogen. Long Xie is a paid employee of Siemens Healthineers. Sandhitsu R. 
Das received consultation fees from Rancho Bioscience and Nia Therapeutics. The 
other declare no conflicts of interest.


24. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(2):857-878. doi: 10.1177/13872877251362787.
Epub  2025 Sep 1.

Therapeutic potential of 6BIO and DKK1-LRP6 inhibitor in Wnt/β-catenin pathway 
modulation for amyloid-β-induced Alzheimer's disease model.

Prajapat M(1), Sarma P(2), Kaur G(1), Choudhary G(1), Jain S(3), Kamal R(4), 
Bains O(4), Sangwan N(5), Prakash A(1), Medhi B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), 
Guwahati, India.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, India.
(4)Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, India.
(5)Department of Anesthesia, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.

BackgroundThe Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway plays a crucial role in central 
nervous system development, with emerging evidence linking its dysregulation to 
the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD).ObjectiveThis study investigates the 
activation of Wnt signaling by targeting GSK3β and the DKK1/LRP6 interaction 
using a combination of 6BIO (6Bromoindirubin-3-oxime) and a novel gallocyanine 
derivative (8e) modulator.MethodsWe identified the interaction energy scores of 
both modulators with target proteins through an in-silico approach. Furthermore, 
the effects of 6BIO (10 µM) and 8e (20 µM) were assessed in SH-SY5Y cells 
treated with Aβ1-42 (20 µM). The efficacy of these modulators was also evaluated 
in male Wistar rats through dose-ranging studies. An Alzheimer's disease model 
was established via intracerebroventricular injection of Aβ1-42, followed by 
treatment with 6BIO (23.8 µg/kg/day, i.p.) and 8e (4.2 mg/kg/day, 
i.p.).ResultsBoth modulators demonstrated favorable binding energy scores and 
dynamic simulation results against the targeted proteins. In Aβ1-42-treated 
SHSY5Y cells, the combination of 6BIO and 8e significantly reduced reactive 
oxygen species production and apoptotic activity while modulating protein 
expression. In vivo study, rats treated with combination of 6BIO and 8e 
modulators exhibited improved neurobehavioral activity compared to AD model 
rats, along with altered expression of DKK1, β-catenin, p-tau, and pGSK3β. 
Additionally, decreased oxidative stress and apoptosis markers.ConclusionsThese 
findings suggest that the combined targeting of GSK3β and LRP6 represents a 
promising therapeutic strategy for AD. The combination of 6BIO and 8e shows 
potential as a novel modulator and warrants further investigation in clinical 
trials to assess its therapeutic efficacy.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251362787
PMID: 40734473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


25. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(2):542-560. doi: 10.1177/13872877251361042.
Epub  2025 Sep 1.

Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analysis identifies FBXW7 as a key 
regulator of tau homeostasis in Alzheimer's disease.

Wang H(1)(2), Yang Q(1)(2), Ge C(1)(2), Liu J(1)(2), Mistry H(3), Jia 
YF(1)(4)(5), He G(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Center for Neuroscience, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Department of Anatomy, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(3)Leicester Medical School, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(4)Department of Physiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Major Brain Disease and Aging Research (Ministry of 
Education), Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
driven by complex, incompletely understood genetic and pathogenic factors. E3 
ubiquitin ligases (E3s), crucial for protein degradation, are implicated in AD, 
but their specific contributions to its progression remain to be 
elucidated.ObjectiveThis study aimed to identify dysregulated E3s in AD and 
elucidate the role of a hub E3, FBXW7, in its pathogenesis and tau protein 
regulation.MethodsWe integrated four datasets to identify differentially 
expressed E3s (DE-E3s) in AD and performed functional enrichment and PPI network 
analyses. Machine learning identified hub E3s and stratified AD patients into 
molecular subtypes. Furthermore, we validated the expression and functional role 
of FBXW7 using western blot, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS), and 
co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP).ResultsWe identified 42 DE-E3s primarily enriched 
in protein ubiquitination and Notch signaling pathways. FBXW7 and ENC1 emerged 
as hub E3s, stratifying patients into two subtypes. Subtype I exhibited 
enrichment of inflammatory pathways, suggesting immune dysregulation. 
Conversely, subtype II displayed activation of pathways associated with synaptic 
dysfunction and neuronal loss, potentially representing distinct primary 
pathological features. Furthermore, we observed decreased FBXW7 expression in AD 
models compared to controls. Notably, FBXW7 interacted with Tau protein. 
Overexpression of FBXW7 reduced the levels of both total Tau and p-Tau Ser262, 
and this reduction in Tau levels was reversed by MG132 treatment.ConclusionsThis 
study comprehensively identified E3s associated with AD, with our findings 
highlighting FBXW7 as a potential key regulator of AD pathogenesis through its 
modulation of tau protein levels.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251361042
PMID: 40734451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


26. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(2):393-408. doi: 10.1177/13872877251361049.
Epub  2025 Sep 1.

The structural foundations of anti-amyloid-β immunotherapies: Unravelling 
antibody-antigen interactions in Alzheimer's disease treatment.

Miles LA(1), Masters CL(1).

Author information:
(1)The Florey Institute, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.

BackgroundAnti-amyloid-β (Aβ) immunotherapies are emerging as treatments for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD).ObjectiveThis review examines the structure-activity 
relationships of anti-Aβ therapeutics tested in phase 3 trials.MethodsWe 
analyzed crystallographic data and molecular models to elucidate the Aβ binding 
mechanisms of donanemab, lecanemab, aducanumab, bapineuzumab, gantenerumab, 
solanezumab, and crenezumab.ResultsLecanemab recognizes minimally degraded Aβ 
missing 1-2 residues, avoiding common Aβ in circulation and further degraded 
material sequestered in plaques. Bapineuzumab buries the N-terminus of Aβ 
requiring Asp1 and is reactive with benign, common Aβ. Donanemab buries the 
truncated N-Glu3 terminus with strong contacts engaging the cyclized pyro-Glu3 
modification. Gantenerumab shows lecanemab-like properties but also binds common 
Aβ. Aducanumab likely needs mAb-mAb cooperation to scavenge a spectrum of Aβ 
oligomers explaining higher doses. Solanezumab and crenezumab target a 
pre-amyloid epitope resulting in off-target engagement, including monomers and 
likely excluding Aβ-ApoE complexes.ConclusionsPreventing primary Aβ nucleation 
failed due to limitations imposed by the blood-brain barrier, intracellular 
aggregation routes, and the natural abundance of Aβ. Anti-Aβ monoclonal antibody 
therapies in clinical use capture Aβ at various stages of decay where post 
translational modifications have been used effectively as proxies for time spent 
in vivo. By targeting a relatively labile epitope of aging Aβ, lecanemab selects 
more biologically active species of Aβ avoiding both benign monomers and old 
fortified species. This focal point may account for the significant cognitive 
effects of lecanemab. The structure of aducanumab suggests a broadly 
neutralizing role has evolved for natural immunity to AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251361049
PMID: 40734422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsLAM declares 
no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, 
and/or publication of this article. CLM reports Ad Hoc consultancy speaking 
engagements and scientific advice with Actinogen, Acumen, Alterity, Biogen, 
Eisai, Eli-Lilly, Roche.


27. Transl Neurodegener. 2025 Jul 29;14(1):39. doi: 10.1186/s40035-025-00499-0.

Axonal tau reduction ameliorates tau and amyloid pathology in a mouse model of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Zare A(#)(1), Salehi S(#)(1), Bader JM(2), Wiessler AL(1), Prokesch M(3), 
Albrecht V(2), Villmann C(1), Mann M(2)(4), Briese M(5), Sendtner M(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Neurobiology, University Hospital Wuerzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Proteomics and Signal Transduction, Max Planck Institute of 
Biochemistry, Martinsried, Munich, Germany.
(3)Scantox Neuro GmbH, Grambach, Austria.
(4)NNF Center for Protein Research, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)Institute of Clinical Neurobiology, University Hospital Wuerzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany. Briese_M@ukw.de.
(6)Institute of Clinical Neurobiology, University Hospital Wuerzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany. Sendtner_M@ukw.de.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Pathological deposition of hyperphosphorylated tau in the brain 
closely correlates with the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Tau pathology 
occurs in axons of affected neurons and tau removal from axons might thus be an 
early intervention strategy.
METHODS: We investigated the role of the RNA-binding protein hnRNP R in axonal 
localization and local translation of Mapt mRNA in neurons cultured from hnRNP R 
knockout mice. hnRNP R knockout mice were crossed with 5×FAD mice, an AD mouse 
model, and the effects of hnRNP R loss on the deposition of phospho-tau and 
amyloid-β plaques were evaluated. We designed antisense oligonucleotides 
(MAPT-ASOs) to block the binding of hnRNP R to Mapt mRNA. Cultured mouse and 
human neurons were treated with MAPT-ASOs and axonal Mapt mRNA and tau protein 
levels were quantified. MAPT-ASO was injected intracerebroventricularly into 
5×FAD mice followed by quantification of phospho-tau aggregates and amyloid-β 
plaques in their brains. Protein changes in brains of 5×FAD mice treated with 
the MAPT-ASO were measured by mass spectrometry.
RESULTS: Mapt mRNA and tau protein were reduced in axons but not cell bodies of 
primary neurons cultured from hnRNP R knockout mice. Brains of 5×FAD mice 
deficient for hnRNP R contained less phospho-tau aggregates and amyloid-β 
plaques in the cortex and hippocampus. Treatment of neurons with MAPT-ASOs to 
block hnRNP R binding to Mapt similarly reduced axonal tau levels. 
Intracerebroventricular injection of a MAPT-ASO reduced the phospho-tau and 
plaque load and prevented neurodegeneration in the brains of 5×FAD mice, 
accompanied by rescue of proteome alterations.
CONCLUSION: Lowering of tau selectively in axons thus represents an innovative 
therapeutic perspective for treatment of AD and other tauopathies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40035-025-00499-0
PMCID: PMC12306013
PMID: 40734174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The experimental procedures in this study involving mice were 
performed according to the regulations on animal protection of the German 
federal law and the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory 
Animal Care, in agreement with and under the control of the local veterinary 
authority. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: 
Abdolhossein Zare, Saeede Salehi, Michael Briese and Michael Sendtner are listed 
as inventors on a US provisional patent application titled “Method and molecules 
for reducing axonal tau protein accumulation through blocking of hnRNP 
R-mediated MAPT mRNA transport for treatment of Alzheimer’s disease” filed by 
the University of Wuerzburg, Germany, that covers the use of the MAPT-ASOs and 
of hnRNP R depletion for treatment of Alzheimer’s disease.


28. Molecules. 2025 Jul 21;30(14):3047. doi: 10.3390/molecules30143047.

Design, Synthesis, and Evaluation of 1-Benzylpiperidine and 1-Benzoylpiperidine 
Derivatives as Dual-Target Inhibitors of Acetylcholinesterase and Serotonin 
Transporter for Alzheimer's Disease.

González-Gutiérrez JP(1), Castillo-Ríos D(1), Ríos-Campos V(2), 
González-Gutiérrez IA(3), Flores Melivilu D(4), Hormazábal Uribe E(5)(6), 
Moraga-Nicolás F(5)(6), Segura K(7), Hernández V(7), Farías-Cea A(8)(9), 
Pessoa-Mahana HA(10), Reyes-Parada MI(1)(11), Iturriaga-Vásquez P(7).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Ciencias Aplicadas, Facultad de Ingeniería, Universidad Autónoma 
de Chile, Talca 3467987, Chile.
(2)Electrical Signaling in Plants (ESP) Laboratory, Center of Bioinformatics, 
Simulation and Modeling (CBSM), Faculty of Engineering, Universidad de Talca, 
Campus Talca, Avenida Lircay, Talca 3460000, Chile.
(3)Interno de Medicina, Facultad de Medicina y Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad 
Mayor, Huechuraba 8580000, Chile.
(4)Carrera de Bioquímica, Departamento de Ciencias Químicas y Recursos 
Naturales, Facultad de Ingeniería y Ciencias, Universidad de La Frontera, Temuco 
4811230, Chile.
(5)Laboratorio de Química Ecológica, Departamento de Ciencias Químicas y 
Recursos Naturales, Universidad de La Frontera, Temuco 4811230, Chile.
(6)Centro de Excelencia de Investigación Biotecnológica Aplicada al Medio 
Ambiente (CIBAMA), Universidad de La Frontera, Temuco 4811230, Chile.
(7)Laboratorio de Farmacología Molecular y Química Medicinal, Facultad de 
Ingeniería y Ciencias, Universidad de La Frontera, Temuco 4811230, Chile.
(8)Laboratorio de Bioquímica y Farmacología Molecular, Escuela de Ciencias, 
Facultad de Ciencias de la Vida, Universidad Viña del Mar, Viña del Mar 2572007, 
Chile.
(9)Escuela de Educación, Facultad de Ciencias Jurídicas, Sociales y de la 
Educación, Universidad Viña del Mar, Viña del Mar 2580022, Chile.
(10)Departamento de Química Orgánica y Fisicoquímica, Facultad de Ciencias 
Químicas y Farmacéuticas, Universidad de Chile, Santiago 8380492, Chile.
(11)Centro de Investigación Biomédica y Aplicada (CIBAP), Escuela de Medicina, 
Facultad de Ciencias Médicas, Universidad de Santiago de Chile, Santiago 
9170022, Chile.

Cholinergic neuron impairment is a significant cause of cognitive decline in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), making acetylcholinesterase (AChE) a key therapeutic 
target. AChE inhibitors are principal drugs prescribed to alleviate symptoms in 
AD patients, while up to 50% of these individuals also suffer from depression, 
frequently treated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Due to 
the multisymptomatic nature of AD, there is a growing interest in developing 
multitargeted ligands that simultaneously enhance cholinergic and serotonergic 
tone. This study presents the synthesis of novel ligands based on functionalized 
piperidines, evaluated through radioligand binding assays at the serotonin 
transporter (SERT) and AChE and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) inhibition. The 
pharmacological results showed that some compounds exhibited moderate inhibitory 
activity against AChE, with one compound 19 standing out as the most potent, 
also displaying a moderate BuChE inhibitory activity, while showing low affinity 
for SERT. On the other hand, compound 21 displayed an interesting 
polypharmacological profile, with good and selective activity against BuChE and 
SERT. The results underscore the difficulty of designing promiscuous ligands for 
these targets and suggest that future structural modifications could optimize 
their therapeutic potential in AD.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30143047
PMCID: PMC12299174
PMID: 40733311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


29. Molecules. 2025 Jul 15;30(14):2975. doi: 10.3390/molecules30142975.

Dual Inhibitors of Acetylcholinesterase and Monoamine Oxidase-B for the 
Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

Asim A(1), Jastrzębski MK(1), Kaczor AA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Synthesis and Chemical Technology of Pharmaceutical Substances 
with Computer Modeling Laboratory, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University of 
Lublin, 4A Chodźki St., PL-20093 Lublin, Poland.
(2)School of Pharmacy, University of Eastern Finland, Yliopistonranta 1, P.O. 
Box 1627, FI-70211 Kuopio, Finland.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multi-factorial neurodegenerative disease with a 
complex pathomechanism that can be best treated with multi-target medications. 
Among the possible molecular targets involved in AD, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) 
and monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) are well recognized because they control the 
neurotransmitters responsible for memory processes. This review discusses the 
current understanding of AD pathology, recent advances in AD treatment, and 
recent reports in the field of dual AChE/MAO-B inhibitors for treating AD. We 
provide a classification of dual inhibitors based on their chemical structure 
and describe active compounds belonging to, i.a., chalcones, coumarins, 
chromones, imines, and hydrazones. Special emphasis is given to the 
computer-aided strategies of dual inhibitors design, their structure-activity 
relationships, and their interactions with the molecular targets at the 
molecular level.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30142975
PMCID: PMC12301006
PMID: 40733241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


30. Nutrients. 2025 Jul 16;17(14):2328. doi: 10.3390/nu17142328.

Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Alzheimer's Disease, and the MIND Diet: A Narrative 
Review from Molecular Mechanisms to Clinical Outcomes.

Ataei Kachouei A(1), Singar S(2), Wood A(3), Flatt JD(4), Rosenkranz SK(3), 
Rosenkranz RR(3), Akhavan NS(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences: Food, Nutrition and Health, University of Bayreuth, 
95326 Kulmbach, Germany.
(2)Department of Health, Nutrition, and Food Sciences, Anne Spencer Daves 
College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences, Florida State University, 
Tallahassee, FL 32306, USA.
(3)Department of Kinesiology and Nutrition Sciences, School of Integrated Health 
Sciences, University of Nevada Las Vegas, Las Vegas, NV 89154, USA.
(4)Department of Social and Behavioral Health, School of Public Health, 
University of Nevada Las Vegas, Las Vegas, NV 89154, USA.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are among the top 10 
causes of death worldwide. Accumulating evidence suggests connections between 
CVD risk factors-including hypertension (HTN), hyperlipidemia (HLP), diabetes 
mellitus (DM), obesity, and physical inactivity-and AD. The Mediterranean-DASH 
Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND) dietary pattern has recently 
garnered considerable attention as a key preventive strategy for both CVDs and 
AD. While previous studies have examined the connections between CVD risk 
factors and AD, they have not thoroughly explored their underlying mechanisms. 
Therefore, the current literature review aims to synthesize the literature and 
highlight underlying mechanisms from preclinical to clinical studies to 
elucidate the relationship between CVD risk factors, AD, and the role of the 
MIND dietary pattern in these conditions. The MIND dietary pattern emphasizes 
foods rich in antioxidants and brain-healthy nutrients such as vitamin E, 
folate, polyphenols, flavonoids, carotenoids, fiber, monounsaturated fatty 
acids, and omega-3 fatty acids. These components have been associated with 
reduced amyloid-β accumulation in preclinical studies and may contribute to the 
prevention of AD, either directly or indirectly by affecting CVD risk factors. 
Despite the extensive evidence from preclinical and observational studies, few 
clinical trials have investigated the effects of the MIND dietary pattern on 
cognitive health. Therefore, long-term clinical trials are required to better 
understand and establish the potential role of the MIND dietary pattern in 
preventing and managing AD.

DOI: 10.3390/nu17142328
PMCID: PMC12299063
PMID: 40732953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


31. Nutrients. 2025 Jul 14;17(14):2312. doi: 10.3390/nu17142312.

Sea Cucumber Egg Oligopeptides Ameliorate Cognitive Impairments and Pathology of 
Alzheimer's Disease Through Regulating HDAC3 and BDNF/NT3 via the 
Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis.

Zhang G(1), Dou Y(1), Xie H(1), Pu D(1), Wang L(2), Wang R(1), Han X(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Saccharide and Lipid Metabolism Research in Liaoning 
Province, College of Life and Health of Dalian University, Dalian 116622, China.
(2)Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian 
116023, China.

BACKGROUND: Oligopeptides from sea cucumber eggs (SCEPs) are rarely studied for 
their neuroprotective effects.
METHODS: Therefore, we prepared SCEPs via simulated gastrointestinal digestion 
and then administered them to an Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse model via 
gavage. Behavior tests, gut-brain histopathology and fecal microbiota 
transplantation (FMT) experiments were conducted, and gut microbiota and 
metabolite short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) were evaluated via 16sRNA gene 
sequencing and LC-MS.
RESULTS: The results showed that both the SCEP and FMT groups experienced 
improvements in the cognitive impairments of AD and showed reduced levels of Aβ, 
P-Tau, GFAP, and NFL in the brain, especially in the hippocampus. SCEP remodeled 
the gut microbiota, increasing the relative abundances of Turicibacter and 
Lactobacillus by 2.7- and 4.8-fold compared with the model at the genus level. 
In the SCEP and FMT treatments, four SCFA-producing bacteria obtained from gut 
microbiota profiling showed consistent trends, indicating that they may be 
involved in mediating the neuroprotective effects of SCEP. Mechanically, SCEP 
regulated the SCFA distribution in feces, blood, and the brain, greatly 
increased the content of SCFAs in the brain up to 2000 μg/mg, eased gut-brain 
barrier dysfunction, inhibited HDAC3 overexpression, and upregulated BDNF/NT3 
levels.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a promising candidate for preventing AD and a 
reference for applying SCEP.

DOI: 10.3390/nu17142312
PMCID: PMC12298608
PMID: 40732937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
influenced the research reported in this study.


32. Nutrients. 2025 Jul 10;17(14):2286. doi: 10.3390/nu17142286.

The Therapeutic Potential of Butyrate and Lauric Acid in Modulating Glial and 
Neuronal Activity in Alzheimer's Disease.

Senarath RMUS(1)(2), Oikari LE(3), Bharadwaj P(1)(2), Jayasena V(4), Martins 
RN(1)(2)(5)(6), Fernando WMADB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, WA 
6027, Australia.
(2)Australian Alzheimer's Research, Ralph and Patricia Sarich Neuroscience 
Research Institute, Nedlands, WA 6009, Australia.
(3)Brain and Mental Health, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, 
QLD 4006, Australia.
(4)Nutrition and Food Science, School of Science, Western Sydney University, 
Campbelltown, NSW 2560, Australia.
(5)Lions Alzheimer's Foundation, Nedlands, WA 6909, Australia.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW 2109, 
Australia.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder marked by 
amyloid-β plaque accumulation, tau tangles, and extensive neuroinflammation. 
Neuroinflammation, driven by glial cells like microglia and astrocytes, plays a 
critical role in AD progression. Initially, these cells provide protective 
functions, such as debris clearance and neurotrophic support. However, as AD 
progresses, chronic activation of these cells exacerbates inflammation, 
contributing to synaptic dysfunction, neuronal loss, and cognitive decline. 
Microglia release pro-inflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen species (ROS), 
while astrocytes undergo reactive astrogliosis, further impairing neuronal 
health. This maladaptive response from glial cells significantly accelerates 
disease pathology. Current AD treatments primarily aim at symptomatic relief, 
with limited success in disease modification. While amyloid-targeting therapies 
like Aducanumab and Lecanemab show some promise, their efficacy remains limited. 
In this context, natural compounds have gained attention for their potential to 
modulate neuroinflammation and promote neuroprotection. Among these, butyrate 
and lauric acid are particularly notable. Butyrate, produced by a healthy gut 
microbiome, acts as a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, reducing 
pro-inflammatory cytokines and supporting neuronal health. Lauric acid, on the 
other hand, enhances mitochondrial function, reduces oxidative stress, and 
modulates inflammatory pathways, thereby supporting glial and neuronal health. 
Both compounds have been shown to decrease amyloid-β deposition, reduce 
neuroinflammation, and promote neuroprotection in AD models. This review 
explores the mechanisms through which butyrate and lauric acid modulate glial 
and neuronal activity, highlighting their potential as therapeutic agents for 
mitigating neuroinflammation and slowing AD progression.

DOI: 10.3390/nu17142286
PMCID: PMC12298293
PMID: 40732911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


33. Nutrients. 2025 Jul 9;17(14):2266. doi: 10.3390/nu17142266.

Intermittent Fasting as a Neuroprotective Strategy: Gut-Brain Axis Modulation 
and Metabolic Reprogramming in Neurodegenerative Disorders.

Hein ZM(1), Arbain MFF(2), Kumar S(3), Mehat MZ(4)(5), Hamid HA(4)(5), Che Ramli 
MD(3), Che Mohd Nassir CMN(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, Ajman University, 
Ajman P.O. Box 346, United Arab Emirates.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Physiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Faculty of Medicine, University Sultan Zainal Abidin, Kuala Terengganu 20400, 
TGG, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Diagnostic and Allied Health Science, Faculty of Health and 
Life Sciences, Management and Science University, Shah Alam 40100, SEL, 
Malaysia.
(4)Department of Human Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang 43400, SEL, Malaysia.
(5)Brain and Mental Health Research Advancement and Innovation Networks (PUTRA 
BRAIN), Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 
Serdang 43400, SEL, Malaysia.

Intermittent fasting (IF) is emerging as a heterogeneous neurometabolic 
intervention with the possibility of changing the course of neurodegenerative 
diseases. Through the modulation of the gut-brain axis (GBA), cellular 
bioenergetics (or metabolic) reprogramming, and involvement in preserved stress 
adaptation pathways, IF influences a range of physiological mechanisms, 
including mitobiogenesis, autophagy, circadian rhythm alignment, and 
neuroinflammation. This review critically synthesises current preclinical and 
early clinical evidence illustrating IF's capability to supplement synaptic 
plasticity and integrity, reduce toxic proteins (proteotoxic) burden, and 
rehabilitate glial and immune homeostasis across models of Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
The key players behind these effects are bioactive metabolites such as 
short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) and β-hydroxybutyrate (BHB), and molecular 
mediators such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We feature the 
therapeutic pertinence of IF-induced changes in gut microbiota composition, 
immune response, and mitochondrial dynamics, and we discuss emerging approaches 
for merging IF into precision medicine frameworks. Crucial challenges include 
individual variability, protocol optimisation, safety in cognitively vulnerable 
populations, and the need for biomarker-guided, ethically grounded clinical 
trials. Finally, we propose IF as a scalable and flexible intervention that, 
when personalised and integrated with other modalities, may reframe 
neurodegeneration from a model of irreversible decline to one of modifiable 
resilience.

DOI: 10.3390/nu17142266
PMCID: PMC12298811
PMID: 40732891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


34. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2025 Jul 14;18(7):1041. doi: 10.3390/ph18071041.

From Molecules to Medicines: The Role of AI-Driven Drug Discovery Against 
Alzheimer's Disease and Other Neurological Disorders.

Alghamdi MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, College of Science, Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic 
University (IMSIU), Riyadh 11432, Saudi Arabia.

The discovery of effective therapeutics against Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
other neurological disorders remains a significant challenge. Artificial 
intelligence (AI) tools are of considerable interest in modern drug discovery 
processes and, by exploiting machine learning (ML) algorithms and deep learning 
(DL) tools, as well as data analytics, can expedite the identification of new 
drug targets and potential lead molecules. The current study was aimed at 
assessing the role of AI-based tools in the discovery of new drug targets 
against AD and other related neurodegenerative diseases and their efficacy in 
the discovery of new drugs against these diseases. AD represents a 
multifactorial neurological disease with limited therapeutics available for 
management and limited efficacy. The discovery of more effective medications is 
limited by the complicated pathophysiology of the disease, involving amyloid 
beta (Aβ), neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), oxidative stress, and 
inflammation-induced damage in the brain. The integration of AI tools into the 
traditional drug discovery process against AD can help to find more effective, 
safe, highly potent compounds, identify new targets of the disease, and help in 
the optimization of lead molecules. A detailed literature review was performed 
to gather evidence regarding the most recent AI tools for drug discovery against 
AD, Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MLS), and epilepsy, focusing 
on biological markers, early diagnoses, and drug discovery using various 
databases like PubMed, Web of Science, Google Scholar, Scopus, and ScienceDirect 
to collect relevant literature. We evaluated the role of AI in analyzing 
multifaceted biological data and the properties of potential drug candidates and 
in streamlining the design of clinical trials. By exploring the intersection of 
AI and neuroscience, this review focused on providing insights into the future 
of AD treatment and the potential of AI to revolutionize the field of drug 
discovery. Our findings conclude that AI-based tools are not only 
cost-effective, but the success rate is extremely high compared to traditional 
drug discovery methods in identifying new therapeutic targets and in the 
screening of the majority of molecules for clinical trial purposes.

DOI: 10.3390/ph18071041
PMCID: PMC12300675
PMID: 40732328

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflicts of interest.


35. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2025 Jun 29;18(7):977. doi: 10.3390/ph18070977.

Study on the Pharmacological Efficacy and Mechanism of Dual-Target Liposome 
Complex AD808 Against Alzheimer's Disease.

Liu C(1), Wang X(1), Xu W(2), Yu S(1), Zhang Y(3), Xu Q(1), Tan X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China.
(2)School of Advanced Materials Engineering, Jiaxing Nanhu University, Jiaxing 
314000, China.
(3)Hangzhou Orenstar Biomed Co., Ltd., Hangzhou 314000, China.

Background/Objectives: To study the efficacy and pharmacological mechanism of 
the dual-target liposome complex AD808 in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. 
Methods: Using APP/PS1 mouse models, the therapeutic efficacy and 
pharmacological mechanism of AD808 on Alzheimer's disease were studied through 
water maze tests, brain tissue staining, immunofluorescence, and ELISA for 
inflammatory and neurotrophic factors. Results: AD808 exhibited significant 
pharmacodynamic effects in improving behavioral and cognitive abilities (70% 
reduction in escape latency) and repairing damaged nerve cells (90% reduction in 
Aβ plaque) in Alzheimer's disease mice. The efficacy of the liposome complex 
AD808 was significantly better than that of ST707 or gh625-Zn7MT3 alone. AD808 
significantly reduced brain inflammation (57.3% and 61.5% reductions in TNF-α 
and IL-1β, respectively) in AD (Alzheimer's disease) mouse models and promoted 
the upregulation of neurotrophic factors and nerve growth factors (142.8% 
increase in BDNF, 275.9% in GDNF, and 111.3% in NGF-1) in brain homogenates. By 
activating the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway in brain microglia, AD808 upregulated 
TREM2 protein expression and removed Aβ amyloid plaques in the brain. 
Additionally, it promoted the transition of microglia from the pro-inflammatory 
M1 phenotype to the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, regulated the M1/M2 balance, 
released anti-inflammatory and neurotrophic factors, reduced chronic 
inflammation, and enhanced neurological repair. Based on these results, the 
potential pharmacological mechanism of AD808 against Alzheimer's disease was 
proposed. Conclusions: As a dual-target liposome complex, AD808 has shown 
promising therapeutic potential in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, 
providing a new strategy for innovative drug development.

DOI: 10.3390/ph18070977
PMCID: PMC12298213
PMID: 40732267

Conflict of interest statement: Author Yueru Zhang was employed by the company 
Hangzhou Orenstar Biomed Co., Ltd. The remaining authors declare that the 
research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


36. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Aug;21(8):e70540. doi: 10.1002/alz.70540.

Decreased quantitative transport mapping velocity in the middle cerebral 
artery-supplied temporal lobe in Alzheimer's disease.

Guo Y(1), Liu T(2), Li Y(3), Chiang GC(3)(4), Huang W(1), Zhang Y(1), Chen H(1), 
de Leon MJ(3), Butler TA(3), Wang Y(5), Chen F(1), Zhou L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Hainan General Hospital (Hainan Affiliated Hospital 
of Hainan Medical University), Haikou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Hainan General Hospital (Hainan Affiliated Hospital 
of Hainan Medical University), Haikou, China.
(3)Department of Radiology, Brain Health Imaging Institute (BHII), Weill Cornell 
Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Division of Neuroradiology, Weill Cornell Medicine, 
New York-Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, MRI Research Institute (MRIRI), Weill Cornell 
Medicine, United States, New York, New York, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Reduced blood perfusion has been observed in patients with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the patterns of blood perfusion changes during AD 
progression remain insufficiently explored.
METHODS: Quantitative transport mapping (QTM) is a novel biophysical 
modeling-based method for quantifying blood perfusion velocity. In this study, 
we examined regional changes in perfusion velocity throughout AD progression by 
combining QTM velocity measurements with Granger causality analysis using 
cross-sectional data, as a secondary and exploratory analysis following our 
previous QTM work, aiming to offer a comprehensive view of the QTM velocity 
patterns based on the arterial territories.
RESULTS: Reduced QTM velocity was observed in the middle cerebral artery 
(MCA)-supplied regions for patients with mild cognitive impairment. The 
MCA-supplied temporal lobe is a driving region of QTM velocity changes in other 
brain regions.
DISCUSSION: The temporal lobe supplied by the MCA is the earliest brain region 
to exhibit changes in QTM velocity, indicating its potential as an early 
biomarker for AD diagnosis.
HIGHLIGHTS: Quantitative transport mapping (QTM) velocity was significantly 
reduced in the middle cerebral artery (MCA)-supplied regions among patients with 
mild cognitive impairment, compared to cognitively normal individuals. The 
temporal lobe supplied by the MCA is a driving region of QTM velocity changes in 
other brain regions. The temporal lobe supplied by the MCA has great potential 
as an early biomarker for AD diagnosis.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70540
PMCID: PMC12307133
PMID: 40731250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Y.W. owns equity of Medimagemetric LLC. G.C. 
receives consulting fees from Life Molecular Imaging and research funds from 
Minoryx Therapeutics. All authors declare no other conflicts of interest. Author 
disclosures are available in the supporting information.


37. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Aug;21(8):e70519. doi: 10.1002/alz.70519.

Mitochondrial complex I deficiency induces Alzheimer's disease-like signatures 
that are reversible by targeted therapy.

Gao H(1), Jensen K(2), Nesbitt J(2), Ostroot M(2), Cary GA(3), Wiley J(4), 
Trushin S(1), Watzlawik JO(5), Springer W(5), Galkin A(6), Baloni P(7), Funk 
C(8), Trushina E(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(3)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine, USA.
(4)Sage Bionetworks, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(6)New York-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(7)School of Health Sciences and Purdue Institute for Integrative Neuroscience 
at Purdue, University, West Lafayette, Indiana, USA.
(8)Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, Washington, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Mitochondrial dysfunction is implicated in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), but whether it drives AD-associated changes is unclear. We assessed 
transcriptomic alterations in the brains of Ndufs4-/- mice, a model of 
mitochondrial complex I (mtCI) deficiency, and evaluated the therapeutic effects 
of the neuroprotective mtCI inhibitor CP2.
METHODS: Cortico-hippocampal tissue from Ndufs4-/- and wild-type mice was 
subjected to transcriptomic analysis, followed by cross-species comparisons to 
human late-onset AD and familial AD mouse datasets.
RESULTS: Knockout of Ndufs4-mediated mtCI deficiency disrupted mitochondrial 
homeostasis, energy metabolism, and synaptic gene expression, recapitulating 
transcriptomic signatures of AD. CP2 treatment partially reversed these changes, 
with female Ndufs4-/- mice showing greater compensatory adaptations and 
treatment responses.
DISCUSSION: Loss of mtCI activity alone is sufficient to induce AD-like 
molecular changes in the brain, independent of amyloid beta or phosphorylated 
tau. CP2-mediated rescue highlights the potential of targeting mitochondria as a 
therapeutic strategy for AD. Sex-specific responses suggest important 
considerations for personalized therapeutics.
HIGHLIGHTS: Activity of mitochondrial complex I (mtCI) affects broad 
mitochondrial and neuronal transcriptional networks. A reduction of mtCI 
activity is sufficient to induce transcriptomic changes reminiscent of those 
observed in late-onset Alsheimer's disease (AD) patients and familial mouse 
models of AD. Pharmacological targeting of mtCI mediates neuroprotective 
signaling. Male and female mice have differential responses to the loss of mtCI 
activity and to the mitochondria-targeted therapeutics. Mitochondria play a key 
role in AD development and treatment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70519
PMCID: PMC12307131
PMID: 40731203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Eugenia Trushina and the Mayo Clinic hold 
four US patents on novel small‐molecule mitochondrion‐targeted compounds. Dr. 
Cory Funk is a cofounder of Fulcrum Neuroscience. Declarations of interest: 
None. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


38. J Transl Med. 2025 Jul 29;23(1):850. doi: 10.1186/s12967-025-06721-x.

Translation of task-evoked negative BOLD response into aging and Alzheimer's 
disease: a systematic review of the current literature.

Ghaderi Yazdi B(1), Razlighi QR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Brain Health Imaging Institute, Weill Cornell 
Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, Brain Health Imaging Institute, Weill Cornell 
Medicine, New York, NY, USA. qrr4001@med.cornell.edu.

BACKGROUND: Aging, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
and individuals at risk for AD are associated with impaired negative 
blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) response (NBR) in task-evoked functional 
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies. In addition, autosomal dominant AD 
patients have exhibited NBR alterations in the default mode network (DMN) 
regions nearly a decade before any accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) or tau and 
subsequent memory decline. Studies examining exclusively the NBR are rare in 
clinical settings, but some existing studies using task-evoked fMRI also report 
alterations in the NBR. However, in many studies, NBR is often disregarded, left 
lingering in the shadows, or, more generally, masked out as a bothersome noise.
METHODS: We reviewed the Embase, Scopus, and PubMed databases, and forward and 
backward citation tracking for studies published up to 6/11/2024. Included 
articles detailed the use of task-evoked fMRI (tb-fMRI) to investigate aging, 
AD, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and early tau or Aβ deposition, with all 
results reported on NBR.
FINDINGS: From 319 records identified for aging, 154 records for tau or Aβ, and 
159 records for AD and MCI, 42, 14, and 9 papers were included, respectively. 
Forward and backward citation tracking added 44, 3, and 55 papers, respectively 
resulting in 167 studies with 11310 individuals. A significantly reduced 
magnitude of NBR in some regions of the DMN in healthy aging compared with young 
participants and individuals with elevated Aβ levels, MCI, and AD compared to 
healthy aging was found in 57, 12, 17, and 14 studies, respectively.
INTERPRETATION: This review highlights the DMN NBR's importance in the AD 
continuum and underscores its potential as an early diagnostic biomarker when 
pharmacological treatment options can still alter the disease course.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-025-06721-x
PMCID: PMC12306062
PMID: 40731005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Considering the nature of a systematic review, this does not apply. 
Consent for publication: Considering the nature of a systematic review, this 
does not apply. Competing interests: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
report.


39. Neurotherapeutics. 2025 Jul 28:e00708. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00708.
Online  ahead of print.

Aberrant S-nitrosylation in the TCA cycle contributes to mitochondrial 
dysfunction, energy compromise, and synapse loss in neurodegenerative diseases.

Nakamura T(1), Sharma A(2), Lipton SA(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurodegeneration New Medicines Center and Department of Molecular & Cellular 
Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, 92037, USA. Electronic 
address: tnakamura@scripps.edu.
(2)Neurodegeneration New Medicines Center and Department of Molecular & Cellular 
Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, 92037, USA.
(3)Neurodegeneration New Medicines Center and Department of Molecular & Cellular 
Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, 92037, USA; Department of 
Neurosciences, School of Medicine, University of California at San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA, 92093, USA. Electronic address: slipton@scripps.edu.

Neuronal synaptic activity relies heavily on mitochondrial energy production, as 
synaptic transmission requires substantial ATP. Accordingly, mitochondrial 
dysfunction represents a key underlying factor in synaptic loss that strongly 
correlates with cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease and other 
neurocognitive disorders. Increasing evidence suggests that elevated 
nitro-oxidative stress impairs mitochondrial bioenergetic function, leading to 
synaptic degeneration. In this review, we highlight the pathophysiological roles 
of nitric oxide (NO)-dependent posttranslational modifications (PTMs), 
particularly S-nitrosylation of cysteine residues, and their impact on 
mitochondrial metabolism. We focus on the pathological S-nitrosylation of 
tricarboxylic acid cycle enzymes, particularly α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, as 
well as electron transport chain proteins. This aberrant PTM disrupts 
mitochondrial energy production. Additionally, we discuss the consequences of 
aberrant protein S-nitrosylation on mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy, 
further contributing to mitochondrial dysfunction and synapse loss. Finally, we 
examine current strategies to ameliorate S-nitrosylation-mediated mitochondrial 
dysfunction in preclinical models of neurodegenerative diseases and explore 
future directions for developing neurotherapeutics aimed at restoring 
mitochondrial metabolism in the context of nitro-oxidative stress.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00708
PMID: 40730758

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest SAL discloses 
that he is an inventor on worldwide patents for the use of memantine and 
NitroSynapsin for neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental disorders. Per 
Harvard University guidelines, SAL participates in a royalty-sharing agreement 
with his former institution Boston Children's Hospital/Harvard Medical School, 
which licensed the drug memantine (Namenda®) to Forest Laboratories, 
Inc./Actavis/Allergan/AbbVie. NitroSynapsin is licensed to the biotechnology 
company EuMentis Therapeutics, Inc., for which SAL is scientific founder and 
chair of the Scientific Advisory Board (SAB). SLA is also a member of the SAB of 
Point 6 Bio. Ltd., and has recently served as a consultant to Circumvent 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Further, SAL discloses that he is a named inventor on 
patent(s) filed by his current institution, The Scripps Research Institute, for 
novel NRF2 activators in the treatment of systemic and nervous system diseases 
via anti-inflammatory and antioxidant actions. TN serves as a consultant to 
Dojindo Molecular Technologies. The other author declares no competing 
interests.


40. Pharmacoeconomics. 2025 Oct;43(10):1251-1266. doi:
10.1007/s40273-025-01527-7.  Epub 2025 Jul 29.

The Cost-Effective Price of Lecanemab for Patients with Early Alzheimer's 
Disease in Sweden.

Xia X(1), Aye S(2), Frisell O(3)(4), Aho E(2), Handels R(2)(5), Li Y(2), Wimo 
A(2), Winblad B(2)(6), Eriksdotter M(6)(7), Skillbäck TB(8)(9), Kern 
S(8)(9)(10), Zetterberg H(11)(12)(13)(14)(15)(16), Jönsson L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Section for 
Neurogeriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, BioClinicum, Solnavägen 30, Floor 10, 
171 64, Solna, Sweden. xin.xia@ki.se.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Section for 
Neurogeriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, BioClinicum, Solnavägen 30, Floor 10, 
171 64, Solna, Sweden.
(3)Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska 
Institutet, Solna, Sweden.
(4)The Swedish Institute for Health Economics (IHE), Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Faculty of Health Medicine and Life Sciences, Department of Psychiatry and 
Neuropsychology, Alzheimer Centre Limburg, Mental Health and Neuroscience 
Research Institute, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(6)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge, 
Sweden.
(7)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden.
(8)Neuropsychiatric Epidemiology Unit, Department of Psychiatry and 
Neurochemistry, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(9)Clinical Dementia Research, Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(10)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Region Västra Götaland, Sahlgrenska 
University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(11)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(12)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(13)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(14)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(15)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(16)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: We sought to estimate the cost-effective price for lecanemab for 
treating early Alzheimer's disease in Sweden from the perspective of formal care 
payers.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model with states defined by disease severity and 
care setting. The model was populated by integrated clinical and economic data 
from Swedish registers. We included patients with biomarker-confirmed 
Alzheimer's disease and fitted survival models for transitions between model 
states. Costs in 2023 Swedish kronor (SEK), life-years (LYs), and 
quality-adjusted LYs (QALYs) over a 10-year time horizon were estimated for 
standard of care and for lecanemab in addition to standard of care, assuming a 
maximum treatment duration of 3 years with lecanemab and no treatment effect 
after treatment stops. We also explored the impact of different assumptions 
regarding treatment efficacy and duration.
RESULTS: Treatment with lecanemab over 3 years resulted in 0.13 LYs gained, 0.17 
QALYs gained, and a net cost increase of 87,146 SEK (€1 = 11.5 SEK, $US1 = 10.6 
SEK) due to administration and monitoring, before considering the cost of drug. 
The cost-effective price of lecanemab at a willingness-to-pay level of 1 million 
SEK per QALY was 33,886 SEK per year of treatment. The health gain, net costs, 
and cost-effective price of lecanemab varied significantly by treatment 
duration, potential residual effects, and patient characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: The future price of lecanemab in European countries is unknown. 
However, treatment with lecanemab is unlikely to be cost effective in Sweden at 
the levels of current list prices in the USA.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-025-01527-7
PMCID: PMC12450216
PMID: 40730714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Statements: The study 
received approval from the Swedish Ethical Review Authority (DNR: 
2024-07272-02). Ethical approvals for NACC were obtained from the local 
institutional review boards at each participating site. The NACC request ID for 
this study is 11753. Data Sharing: In accordance with Swedish regulations, we 
are unable to share the data used in this study. Researchers can access SveDem 
and other Swedish registers after receiving ethical approvals from ethical 
review authorities and approvals from the register holders. Analysis codes for 
the study, including codes for the meta-analyses of utility, are available at: 
https://github.com/axinaxia/AD-DMT-Model . Author Contributions: All authors, 
including AW and BW, have reviewed the manuscript, provided critical feedback, 
and approved the submission of the manuscript for publication. Conflicts of 
Interest: RH has received consulting fees in the past 36 months from Lilly 
Nederland and the Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (paid to 
institution), outside this study. BW has served on scientific advisory boards 
for Alzinova, Axon Neuroscience, Artery Therapeutics, NSC-Therapeutics, and 
Phanes Biotech and on a data safety monitoring board for Primus-AD. SK has 
served on scientific advisory boards and as a speaker and/or consultant for 
Roche, Eli Lilly, Geras Solutions, Optoceutics, Biogen, Eisai, Merry Life, 
Triolab, Novo Nordisk, and Bioarctic, unrelated to the present study content. HZ 
has served on scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for AbbVie, 
Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Enigma, 
LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures 
sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside the submitted work). LJ has received research grants (unrelated to the 
current work) from Novo Nordisk; consultancy fees from Lundbeck, Eli Lilly, and 
Teva; and licence fees for the RUD (resource utilization in dementia) 
instrument. LJ is an editorial board member of PharmacoEconomics and was not 
involved in the selection of peer reviewers for the manuscript or any of the 
subsequent editorial decisions. AW and BW have received licence fees for the RUD 
instrument. ME has served as consultant for BioArctic AB, Roche, Eli Lilly, 
Biogen/Eisai, and Novo Nordisk and given lectures in symposia sponsored by 
Roche. XX, SA, OF, EA, YL, and TS have no competing interests. Funding: Open 
access funding provided by Karolinska Institute. This project is supported by 
the Innovative Health Initiative Joint Undertaking (IHI JU) under grant 
agreement no. 101112145 and PREDEM (Vinnova grant 2021-02680). The JU receives 
support from the European Union’s Horizon Europe research and innovation 
programme, Combinostics Oy and BioArctic AB. The views and opinions expressed 
are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of the 
aforementioned parties. Neither of the aforementioned parties can be held 
responsible for them. BW has received research funding from Margaretha af 
Ugglas’ foundation, Swedish Research Council (2024-03573), and Swedish Brain 
Foundation (FO2024-0287). HZ is a Wallenberg Scholar and a Distinguished 
Professor at the Swedish Research Council supported by grants from the Swedish 
Research Council (#2023-00356, #2022-01018 and #2019-02397), the European 
Union’s Horizon Europe research and innovation programme under grant agreement 
no. 101053962, and Swedish State Support for Clinical Research (#ALFGBG-71320). 
SK was financed by grants from the Swedish state under the agreement between the 
Swedish government and the county councils, the ALF-agreement (ALFGBG-1005471, 
ALFGBG-965923, ALFGBG-81392, ALFGBG-771071), the Alzheimerfonden (AF-842471, 
AF-737641, AF-929959, AF-939825), the Swedish Research Council (2019-02075, 
2019-02075_15), Stiftelsen Psykiatriska Forskningsfonden, and the Swedish Brain 
Foundation (FO2024-0097). ME was supported by the Swedish Research Council 
(2024-03599), the Swedish Brain Foundation (FO2024-0339), the regional agreement 
on medical training and clinical research between the Stockholm County council 
and the Karolinska Institutet (ALF) and the Paulsson foundation.


41. Nat Aging. 2025 Sep;5(9):1771-1789. doi: 10.1038/s43587-025-00924-z. Epub
2025  Jul 29.

Serum amyloid P secreted by bone marrow adipocytes drives skeletal amyloidosis.

Kumar S(1), Song K(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2), Baghel MS(3), Zeng Y(1), Shen K(1), 
Zheng J(1), Crane J(1)(4), Demehri S(5), Gao P(6), Jain A(1), Skolasky RL(1), 
Wong P(3)(7), Cao X(1)(2), Wan M(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, the Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, the Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Sciences, the 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(6)Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, the Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(7)Department of Neuroscience, the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(8)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, the Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. mwan4@jhmi.edu.
(9)Department of Biomedical Engineering, the Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. mwan4@jhmi.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Aug 15:2024.08.15.608092. doi: 10.1101/2024.08.15.608092.

The accumulation of amyloid fibrils has been identified in tissues outside the 
brain, yet little is understood about the formation of extracerebral amyloidosis 
and its impact on organ aging. Here, we demonstrate that both transgenic 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) mice and naturally aging mice exhibit accumulated 
senescent bone marrow adipocytes (BMAds), accompanied by amyloid deposits. 
Senescent BMAds acquire a secretory phenotype, markedly increasing secretion of 
serum amyloid P component (SAP), also known as pentraxin 2 (PTX2). SAP/PTX2 
colocalizes with amyloid deposits around senescent BMAds in vivo and promotes 
insoluble amyloid formation from soluble amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides in in vitro and 
ex vivo three-dimensional (3D) BMAd-based cultures. Combined SAP/PTX2 and Aβ 
treatment promotes osteoclastogenesis but inhibits osteoblastogenesis. 
Transplanting senescent BMAds into the bone marrow cavity of young mice induces 
bone loss, which is reversed by senolytic treatment. Finally, depleting SAP/PTX2 
in aged mice abolishes marrow amyloid deposition and rescues low bone mass. 
Thus, senescent BMAds drive age-related skeletal amyloidosis and bone deficits 
via SAP/PTX2.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s43587-025-00924-z
PMCID: PMC12443615
PMID: 40730660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


42. Free Radic Biol Med. 2025 Nov;239:406-416. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2025.07.036. Epub 2025 Jul 27.

Dehydroascorbic acid impairs neurite growth through RIPK1-associated caspase 
activation.

Magdalena R(1), Ferrada L(2), Ramírez E(1), Smith-Ghigliotto JF(1), Salazar 
K(1), Nualart F(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology and Stem Cells, NeuroCellT, Department of Cellular 
Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of Concepción, Concepción, 
Chile.
(2)Laboratory of Neurobiology and Stem Cells, NeuroCellT, Department of Cellular 
Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of Concepción, Concepción, 
Chile; Center for Advanced Microscopy, CMA BIO BIO, University of Concepción, 
Concepción, Chile.
(3)Laboratory of Neurobiology and Stem Cells, NeuroCellT, Department of Cellular 
Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of Concepción, Concepción, 
Chile; Center for Advanced Microscopy, CMA BIO BIO, University of Concepción, 
Concepción, Chile. Electronic address: frnualart@udec.cl.

Axonal and neurite loss is a common event in neurodegenerative diseases, such as 
Alzheimer's disease or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which are enhanced by 
oxidative damage and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. In the central 
nervous system, vitamin C can be found as ascorbic acid (AA), its reduced form, 
or dehydroascorbic acid (DHA), its oxidized form. Vitamin C mainly acts as an 
antioxidant agent, and homeostasis in the brain is maintained through its 
recycling between neurons and astrocytes. However, DHA accumulation under 
pathophysiological conditions has been associated with changes in neuronal 
metabolism and necroptotic cell death through RIPK1 activation. Furthermore, 
recent studies show that DHA accumulation induces significant neurite loss; 
however, it is unknown whether this effect is associated with RIPK1 activation. 
Here, we show that DHA treatment on neurospheres (NE) in vitro induces 
significant neurite shortening and reduced branching, effects associated with 
early RIPK1 activation and inhibited through Necrostatin-1s and zVAD-FMK 
treatment, suggesting the activation of apoptotic mechanisms. Finally, we 
propose DHA, the oxidized form of vitamin C, impairs neurite growth through 
ripk1-associated caspase activation.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2025.07.036
PMID: 40730291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interest statement None.


43. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Nov 15;298:117986. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117986.
Epub  2025 Jul 23.

Multitarget-directed carbamate and carbamothioate derivatives: Cholinesterase 
and monoamine oxidase inhibition, anti-β-amyloid (Aβ) aggregation, antioxidant 
and blood-brain barrier permeation properties against Alzheimer's disease.

Teke Tuncel S(1), Erol Gunal S(2), Demir İ(3), Baysal İ(4), Erdem SS(3), Telli 
G(5), Ucar G(6), Dogan I(7), Kelekci NG(8).

Author information:
(1)Bogazici University, Department of Chemistry, Bebek, 34342, Istanbul, Turkey; 
İstanbul Arel University, Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, 34537, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)İstanbul University-Cerrahpaşa, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Marmara University, Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Göztepe, 
Istanbul, 34722, Turkey.
(4)Hacettepe University, Graduate School of Health Sciences, Department of One 
Health, Ankara, Turkey; Hacettepe University, Vocational School of Health 
Services, Ankara, Turkey.
(5)Hacettepe University, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacology, 
Sıhhiye, Ankara, 06100, Turkey.
(6)Hacettepe University, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Biochemistry, 
Sıhhiye, Ankara, 06100, Turkey.
(7)Bogazici University, Department of Chemistry, Bebek, 34342, Istanbul, Turkey.
(8)Hacettepe University, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutical 
Chemistry, Sıhhiye, Ankara, 06100, Turkey. Electronic address: 
onesrin@hacettepe.edu.tr.

Neurodegenerative diseases are multifactorial disorders characterized by protein 
misfolding, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation, finally resulting in 
neuronal loss and cognitive dysfunctions. Nowadays, an attractive strategy to 
improve the classical treatments is the development of multitarget-directed 
molecules able to synergistically interact with different enzymes and/or 
receptors. A novel series of chiral carbamate and carbamothioate derivatives 
were designed, synthesized, and investigated as inhibition of cholinesterases 
and monoamine oxidases, anti-β-amyloid aggregation and antioxidant activities 
against Alzheimer's disease. The enzymatic activity of butyrylcholinesterase 
(BChE) in the brain increases with the progression of Alzheimer's disease, thus 
classifying BChE as a promising drug target in advanced Alzheimer's disease. Two 
compounds, 4a-S and 4a-R, showed excellent and selective inhibitory activities 
against BChE (IC50: 0.051 μM; IC50: 0.059 μM). Compound 4a-S also exhibited 
selective hMAO-B (IC50 = 0.45 ± 0.02 μM) inhibitory activities. The molecular 
docking and dynamic simulations of compounds 4a-R and 4a-S in human BChE 
revealed that the piperidine and propargyl groups play crucial roles for the 
inhibition. Compound 1d-R had the greatest ability to hMAO-B inhibition 
(IC50 = 0.09 μM). Compound 2b exhibited significant ability to inhibit 
self-induced β-amyloid (Aβ1-42; IC50: 0.97 μM). Achiral carbamate derivatives 
2c, 2j and 2a act as potential antioxidants. Among the compounds, 2c, 2i, 2j, 
4a-S were selected for the PAMPA-BBB test. These compounds demonstrated 
excellent penetration into the central nervous system. Compounds 1d-R, 2b, 2c, 
4a-S and 4a-R were assessed in vivo with Aluminium chloride induced Alzheimer 
mice model. Compounds 1d-R, 2b, and 4a-S increased learning according to Morris 
Water Maze test. Our preliminary findings may open-up the way for developing 
innovative carbamate and carbamothioate derivatives against neurodegenerative 
diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117986
PMID: 40730063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


44. Adv Sci (Weinh). 2025 Jul 29:e03408. doi: 10.1002/advs.202503408. Online
ahead  of print.

SENP6 Maintains Mitochondrial Homeostasis by Regulating Mitochondrial Protein 
Import Through deSUMOylation of TOM40.

Hu L(1)(2), Li J(3)(4), Guo H(3), Su L(3), Dong P(1)(3), Huang J(3)(2), Liu 
Y(3)(2), Liu X(3)(2), Luo Z(1)(2), Xiong W(5), Ju Z(1)(6), Zhou Q(1)(3), Wang 
H(1)(7), Wang W(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)The First Affiliated Hospital, Key Laboratory of Regenerative Medicine of the 
Ministry of Education, Jinan University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510632, China.
(2)The Biomedical Translational Research Institute, Health Science Center 
(School of Medicine), Jinan University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510632, China.
(3)The College of Life Science and Technology, Jinan University, Guangzhou, 
Guangdong, 510632, China.
(4)Department of Orthopaedics, Guangzhou Red Cross Hospital, Faculty of Medical 
Science, Jinan University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510220, China.
(5)MOE Key Laboratory for Membraneless Organelles and Cellular Dynamics, Hefei 
National Science Center for Physical Sciences at Microscale and University of 
Science and Technology of China, School of Life Sciences/Division of Biomedical 
Sciences, Hefei, Anhui, 230026, China.
(6)The Institute of Aging and Regenerative Medicine, Jinan University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510632, China.
(7)The Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Jinan University (Dongguan Eastern Central 
Hospital), Jinan University, Dongguan, Guangdong, 523067, China.

SUMOylation, a reversible post-translational modification, regulates various 
mitochondrial processes, including biogenesis, dynamics, mitophagy, and the 
mitochondrial unfolded protein response. Although SUMOylation is shown to be 
triggered by mitochondrial protein import failure in yeast, its impact on 
mammalian mitochondrial protein import remains unclear. Here, it is demonstrated 
that SENP6 knockdown-induced SUMOylation causes loss of mitochondrial 
proteostasis, which impairs mitochondrial morphology and function. 
Mechanistically, SENP6 knockdown dampens TOM complex assembly by SUMOylating 
TOM40, thereby hindering the mitochondrial protein import process, including 
TOM40 precursor, and ultimately disrupts mitochondrial homeostasis. 
Additionally, it is observed that CCCP treatment resulted in a decrease of SENP6 
within mitochondria fraction, accompanied by increased TOM40 SUMOylation in the 
brains of 3×Tg-Alzheimer's disease (AD) mice or Aβ1-42 peptide-stimulated cells. 
Collectively, the results suggest that Aβ1-42 accumulation may enhance TOM40 
SUMOylation by suppressing SENP6, thereby impairing mitochondrial homeostasis 
through protein import failure and potentially contributing to the pathological 
process of AD. This study elucidates the role of TOM40 SUMOylation/deSUMOylation 
in regulating the mitochondrial import process during mitochondrial stress.

© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/advs.202503408
PMID: 40729740


45. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70535. doi: 10.1002/alz.70535.

Alzheimer's Association Clinical Practice Guideline on the use of blood-based 
biomarkers in the diagnostic workup of suspected Alzheimer's disease within 
specialized care settings.

Palmqvist S(1)(2), Whitson HE(3)(4), Allen LA(5), Suarez-Calvet M(6)(7), Galasko 
D(8), Karikari TK(9)(10)(11), Okrahvi HR(12), Paczynski M(13), Schindler SE(13), 
Teunissen CE(14), Zetterberg H(15), Carrillo MC(16), Edelmayer RM(16), Mahinrad 
S(16), McAteer MB(17), Kahale LA(18), Pahlke S(16), Tampi MP(16).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(2)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(3)Departments of Opthalmology, Medicine, and Neurology, Duke School of 
Medicine, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(4)Geriatrics Research and Education and Clinical Center, Durham VA Medical 
Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(6)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Servei de Neurologia, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California, USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(10)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(11)Biofluid Biomarker Laboratory, Western Psychiatric Hospital, University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(12)Department of Medicine: Glennan Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, 
Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, Virginia, USA.
(13)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri, USA.
(14)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Amsterdam University Medical Centre, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(15)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(16)Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(17)Jones Learning Center, Virginia Mason Franciscan Health, Seattle, 
Washington, USA.
(18)Clinical Affairs and Practice Guidelines, Infectious Diseases Society of 
America, Arlington, Virginia, USA.

OBJECTIVE AND SCOPE: A panel of clinicians, subject-matter experts, and 
guideline methodologists convened by the Alzheimer's Association conducted a 
systematic review and formulated evidence-based recommendations for using 
blood-based biomarkers (BBMs) in the diagnostic workup of suspected Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) within specialized care settings. The scope focuses on individuals 
with objective cognitive impairment, including those with mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) or dementia, who are undergoing evaluation by providers trained 
and experienced in memory disorders, where AD is the suspected underlying 
etiology.
METHODS: The panel conducted a systematic review to assess the diagnostic 
accuracy of BBMs in detecting AD pathology. The BBMs of interest included plasma 
phosphorylated-tau (p-tau) and amyloid-beta (Aβ) tests measuring the following 
analytes: p-tau217, ratio of p-tau217 to non-p-tau217 ×100 (%p-tau17), p-tau181, 
p-tau231, and ratio of Aβ42 to Aβ40. The reference standard tests included 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) AD biomarkers, amyloid positron emission tomography 
(PET), or neuropathology. The panel applied the Grading of Recommendations, 
Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) approach to assess the certainty 
of the evidence and the GRADE evidence-to-decision (EtD) Framework to develop 
its recommendations.
RECOMMENDATIONS: The key recommendations in this Clinical Practice Guideline 
(CPG) are: (1) BBM tests with ≥90% sensitivity and ≥75% specificity can be used 
as a triaging test and (2) BBM tests with ≥90% sensitivity and specificity can 
serve as a substitute for amyloid PET imaging or CSF AD biomarker testing in 
patients with cognitive impairment presenting to specialized care for memory 
disorders. The panel cautions users of this guideline that there is significant 
variability in diagnostic test accuracy and many commercially available BBM 
tests do not meet these thresholds, especially using a single cutoff. 
Additionally, these tests do not serve as a substitute for comprehensive 
clinical evaluation by a healthcare professional and should be used only as part 
of a full diagnostic workup of patients with cognitive impairment presenting to 
specialized care settings, and with careful consideration of pretest probability 
of AD pathology.
CONCLUSIONS AND PRACTICAL IMPLICATIONS: This CPG provides performance-based, 
brand-agnostic recommendations for the use of BBMs in the diagnostic workup of 
suspected AD within specialized care settings. By linking recommendations to a 
systematic review and associated living updates, and using a robust and 
transparent methodology, the guideline ensures scientific rigor, adaptability, 
and sustained relevance as evidence evolves. Clinicians are encouraged to stay 
informed about emerging paradigms-such as biomarker combinations or ratios and 
multi-threshold testing-that may further refine the diagnostic accuracy of BBMs 
as the field evolves.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70535
PMCID: PMC12306682
PMID: 40729527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Palmqvist receives grant funding for 
research related to AD from Avid and ki elements through the Alzheimer's Drug 
Discovery Foundation (paid to his institution) and in the past 36 months he has 
received consultancy/speaker fees from BioArtic, Biogen, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, and Roche. Dr. Whitson receives grant funding in the diagnostic AD 
space from the National Institute of Aging (NIA) (paid to her institution) and 
has served in speaking/education/advisory roles from UpToDate Inc., DrivenData 
Inc., ClinSTAR, American Federation for Aging Research, and universities 
(unrelated to the topic) in the past 36 months. Dr. Suarez‐Calvet has received 
grant funding for research in the blood and diagnostic AD space from Agència de 
Gestió d'Ajuts Universitaris i de Recerca (AGAUR), Instituto de Salud Carlos 
III, European Commission, Fundació “la Caixa,” European Union and Health 
Department, HNA Foundation, and Roche Diagnostics International Ltd. (paid to 
his institution) and has served in paid advisory roles for Roche Diagnostics 
International Ltd., Roche Diagnostics, Roche Farma, S.A., Almirall, Eli Lilly, 
Quanterix, Novo Nordisk, and Grifols (paid to him and his institution) in the 
past 36 months and has reported no other direct financial or intellectual COIs 
related to the guideline topic that may impact or bias recommendations 
for/against the use of blood‐based biomarkers. Dr. Galasko has received 
speaking/education/advisory fees from Fujirebio, Inc., Biogen Inc., Eisai Inc., 
Roche Diagnostics, and Janssen related to treatment and diagnosis of AD in the 
past 36 months (paid to him and his institution). Dr. Karikari has consulted for 
Quanterix Corporation, SpearBio Inc., Neurogen Biomarking LLC., and Alzheon, has 
served on advisory boards for Siemens Healthineers and Neurogen Biomarking LLC., 
outside the submitted work (paid to him), has received in‐kind research support 
from Janssen Research Laboratories, SpearBio Inc., and Alamar Biosciences, as 
well as meeting travel support from the Alzheimer’s Association and Neurogen 
Biomarking LLC., outside the submitted work (paid to him and his institution), 
has has received royalties from Bioventix for the transfer of specific 
antibodies and assays to third party organizations (paid to him), has received 
honoraria for speaker/grant review engagements from the NIH, UPENN, UW‐Madison, 
the Cherry Blossom symposium, the HABS‐HD/ADNI4 Health Enhancement Scientific 
Program, Advent Health Translational Research Institute, Brain Health 
conference, Barcelona‐Pittsburgh conference, the International 
Neuropsychological Society, the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai and the 
Quebec Center for Drug Discovery, Canada, all outside of the submitted work 
(paid to him), is an inventor on several patents and provisional patents 
regarding biofluid biomarker methods, targets and reagents/compositions, that 
may generate income for the institution and/or self should they be licensed 
and/or transferred to another organization including WO2020193500A1: Use of a 
ps396 assay to diagnose tauopathies; US 63/679,361: Methods to Evaluate 
Early‐Stage Pre‐Tangle TAU Aggregates and Treatment of Alzheimer’s Disease 
Patients; US 63/672,952: Method for the Quantification of Plasma Amyloid‐Beta 
Biomarkers in Alzheimer's Disease; US 63/693,956: Anti‐tau Protein Antigen 
Binding Reagents; and 2450702‐2: Detection of oligomeric tau and soluble tau 
aggregates. Dr. Okrahvi has received grant funding for AD research from the 
Eastern Virginia Medical School‐Sentara Affiliation Funds, Optina Diagnostics, 
NIH, Commonwealth Health Research Board, and Eli Lilly (paid to his 
institution), and has served in a consulting role with Optina Diagnostics (paid 
to his institution) in the past 36 months. Dr. Schindler has received grant 
funding for research directly related to this topic from the NIA (paid to her 
institution), and has served in speaking/advisory roles for blood‐based 
biomarker research for Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Eisai, Medscape, and 
universities (paid directly to her), and unpaid speaking/advisory roles with 
Eisai, Danaher, Eli Lilly, and the World Health Organization in the past 36 
months. Dr. Teunissen has received grant funding for research related to AD 
biomarkers from European Commission, Innovative Medicines Initiatives 3TR, 
European Platform for Neurodegenerative Diseases, EU Joint 
Programme—Neurodegenerative Disease Research, European Partnership on 
Metrology/EU Horizon Europe Research and Innovation Programme, CANTATE project 
funded by the Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation, Alzheimer Association, 
Michael J. Fox Foundation, Health Holland, the Dutch Research Council (ZonMW), 
Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation, The Selfridges Group Foundation, Alzheimer 
Netherlands (paid to her institution), has research contracts with contracts 
with Acumen, ADx Neurosciences, AC‐Immune, Alamar, Aribio, Axon Neurosciences, 
Beckman‐Coulter, BioConnect, Bioorchestra, Brainstorm Therapeutics, Celgene, 
Cognition Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Instant Nano 
Biosensors, Novo Nordisk, Olink, PeopleBio, Quanterix, Roche, Toyama, Vivoryon, 
and has consultancy/speaker contracts for Aribio, Biogen, Beckman‐Coulter, 
Cognition Therapeutics, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Merck, Novo Nordisk, Novartis, Olink, 
Roche, Sanofi and Veravas (paid to her institution) in the past 36 months. Dr. 
Zetterberg has served in speaker/advisory/consulting roles for Denali, Apellis, 
Siemens, Biogen, Roche, Neumora Therapeutics Inc., Novo Nordisk, Amylyx, Enigma, 
WebMD Health Corp, LabCorp, Oy Medics (paid to him) in the past 36 months. Ms. 
Allen, Dr. Kahale, Ms. McAteer, and Ms.Paczynski report no indirect or direct 
financial or intellectual COIs related to the guideline topic that may impact or 
bias recommendations for/against the use of blood‐based biomarkers. Dr. Carillo, 
Dr. Edelmeyer, Dr. Mahinrad, Ms. Pahlke, and Ms. Tampi are full time employees 
of the Alzheimer's Association. The Alzheimer's Association funds research in 
numerous areas. The terms and conditions of its research awards contain a 
standard provision that requires the awardee to share with the Alzheimer's 
Association revenue derived from the licensing of intellectual property 
resulting from the funded research. A research award made to Washington 
University in St. Louis led to the development of technology for the measurement 
of pTau‐217. This technology was subsequently licensed to C2N Diagnostics. In 
accordance with the terms and condition of its award, Washington University 
shares a portion of the licensing fees that the University receives for this 
technology with the Alzheimer's Association. The Alzheimer's Association is not 
a party to the licensing agreement between Washington University and C2N 
Diagnostics, and did not participate in its negotiation. ICMJE forms for all 
authors are published in the Supplementary Materials. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information. Conflicts of interest management 
process: Conflicts of interest were managed using predetermined rules set by the 
Alzheimer's Association to minimize bias. The Alzheimer's Association Rules for 
the Disclosure and Management of Clinical Guidance Panel Conflicts of Interest 
are provided here: 
https://www.alz.org/professionals/health‐systems‐medical‐professionals/clinical‐practice‐guidelines‐and‐evidence.


46. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Aug;40(8):e70138. doi: 10.1002/gps.70138.

Associations of Plasma p-tau181 With Age, Adjusted for Kidney Function and 
Sociodemographic Factors.

Hazan J(1), Liu KY(1), Zetterberg H(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Fox N(2)(3), Howard R(1); 
with ADNI.

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
(2)Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, UK.
(3)Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(7)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Plasma phosphorylated tau (p-tau) levels, such as p-tau181, are 
elevated in Alzheimer's disease compared to cognitively unimpaired individuals. 
They represent potential candidate blood biomarkers for use in memory services 
where CSF examinations are not available. However, the effect of age on plasma 
p-tau levels remains undetermined. Limited studies have investigated the 
association between age and plasma p-tau thus far, and fewer still have 
differentiated levels by brain amyloid pathology. Characterising these 
associations and determining if this is influenced by sociodemographic factors 
or medical comorbidities is important for establishing blood biomarker reference 
ranges.
METHODS: Using ADNI data, we analysed 860 observations (581 participants; age 
range: 55-95 years; 56.0% male; 93.6% White). Linear mixed models (LMMs) 
estimated fixed effects of age, creatinine, baseline BMI, sex, ethnicity, and 
group (Control vs. AD) on plasma p-tau181 concentration, with a random intercept 
for participant ID. Separate LMMs assessed covariate effects and interactions 
with group status.
RESULTS: Analysis of ADNI data revealed a significant positive association 
between p-tau181 levels, group status, and creatinine in the fully adjusted LLM. 
Group status may have obscured the total effect of age on p-tau181, as its 
removal from the model resulted in a significant age effect. Single-variable 
models showed the positive association between either age, or creatinine and 
p-tau181 levels did not differ between control and AD groups. There was a 
significant negative association between BMI and plasma p-tau, which was 
stronger in AD versus control groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides insights into the factors that may influence 
plasma p-tau181 levels. These findings underscore the need to account for 
clinical and demographic factors when interpreting p-tau181. Future research 
should validate these associations in diverse populations and explore underlying 
mechanisms.

© 2025 The Author(s). International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.70138
PMCID: PMC12306926
PMID: 40729462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: HZ has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Programme (outside submitted work). 
NF has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Biogen, 
Eisai, Ionis, Lilly, Roche/Genentech, and Siemens.


47. Drugs Aging. 2025 Oct;42(10):907-920. doi: 10.1007/s40266-025-01233-1. Epub
2025  Jul 29.

Sacubitril/Valsartan Reduces the Risk of All-Cause Dementia in Patients with 
Heart Failure: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Helal MM(1), Almosilhy NA(#)(2)(3), Hamam NG(#)(4), Abdelbaset MAA(5), Shelbaya 
AN(2)(6), Musse HAY(2)(7), Prasad A(8).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Zagazig University, Zagazig, Egypt. 
helal.rsch@gmail.com.
(2)Medical Research Group of Egypt, Negida Academy, Arlington, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tanta 
University, Tanta, Egypt.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Kasr Al-Ainy, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, Zagazig University, Zagazig, Egypt.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, New Mansoura University, New Mansoura, Egypt.
(7)Faculty of Medicine, Al-Azhar University, Cairo, Egypt.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Montefiore St. Luke's, Cornwall, NY, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Drugs Aging. 2025 Oct;42(10):903-905. doi: 10.1007/s40266-025-01242-0.

BACKGROUND: Sacubitril/valsartan, an angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitor 
(ARNI), has become a cornerstone therapy for heart failure (HF) since its 
approval over a decade ago. However, concerns have emerged about potential 
cognitive risks, as neprilysin inhibition may contribute to the accumulation of 
amyloid-beta (Aβ) in the brain-a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, the most 
common form of dementia.
OBJECTIVE: Given the already elevated risk of dementia in patients with HF and 
the widespread use of sacubitril/valsartan, this meta-analysis aimed to evaluate 
whether its use is associated with an increased risk of all-cause dementia in HF 
populations.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted on 23 March 2025, to 
identify eligible studies comparing the risk of dementia in patients receiving 
sacubitril/valsartan versus those receiving placebo, no treatment, or other HF 
medications. Risk ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were pooled 
using a random-effects model.
RESULTS: Six studies, comprising 101,074 participants and published between 2017 
and 2024, were included in the meta-analysis. Treatment with 
sacubitril/valsartan was associated with a significant 15% reduction in the risk 
of all-cause dementia (RR = 0.85; 95% CI: 0.74-0.98; p = 0.02). Leave-one-out 
sensitivity and subgroup analyses confirmed the robustness of the findings.
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis suggests that sacubitril/valsartan is associated 
with a reduced risk of dementia in patients with HF, helping to alleviate 
previous concerns about potential cognitive adverse effects. These findings 
support the continued use of sacubitril/valsartan as a foundational therapy in 
this high-risk population.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-025-01233-1
PMID: 40728824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval and Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. 
Availability of Data and Materials: Not applicable. Competing Interests: Mohamed 
Mohsen Helal, Nereen A. Almosilhy, Nada G. Hamam, Mohamed Ahmed Adel Abdelbaset, 
Ali Nagy Shelbaya, Halima Abdirashid Y. Musse, and Aishwarya Prasad declare that 
they have no potential conflicts of interest that might be relevant to the 
contents of this manuscript. Funding: No funding was received to assist with the 
preparation of this manuscript. Authors’ Contributions: M.M.H. conceived the 
study idea, developed the overall design and direction, conducted the analysis, 
contributed to writing, and provided supervision. N.A.A. supervised the 
screening process and contributed to writing. N.G.H. oversaw the screening, data 
extraction quality assessment processes, and contributed to writing. M.A. and 
A.N.S. contributed to screening, data extraction, quality assessment, and 
writing. H.M. and A.P. contributed to writing.


48. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 Jul 29;40(6):244. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01663-1.

Optimizing predictive biomarkers for alzheimer's disease: muscarinic M1 
antagonist-induced synaptic signaling disruptions and bee venom intervention 
through cholinergic modulation and multiregression dose selection.

Al Saihati HA(1), Alazabi NI(2), Bakeer RM(3)(4), Abol-Fetouh GM(5), Ahmed-Farid 
OA(6), Alshedi AF(7), Alsabeelah NF(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, University of Hafr Albatin, Hafr Albatin, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Biology, Zintan university, Zintan, Libya.
(3)Department of Pathology, Galala University, Suez, Galala, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Helwan University, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(5)Department of Physiology, National Organization for Drug Control and 
Research, Giza, Egypt.
(6)Department of Physiology, National Organization for Drug Control and 
Research, Giza, Egypt. dc.Meddiag.admin@edaegypt.gov.eg.
(7)Department of Radiological Sciences, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
University of King Saud, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Pharmacy Practice Department, Pharmacy College University of Hafr Al Batin, 
Hafr Al Batin, Saudi Arabia.

Alzheimer's (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
cognitive decline and neurochemical imbalances. The present study aims to ensure 
the correct dosage of scopolamine (SC) for inducing AD using Quality by Design 
to optimize the predictive biomarker acetylcholine esterase. Further, 
neuroprotective effects will be assessed with variable doses of bee venom (BV) 
by analyzing its effect on cognitive function, neurochemical markers, and 
oxidative stress. The goal of this study is to improve models of AD and learn 
more about how BV can protect neurons in a dose-dependent way during treatment. 
Methods: The rats were randomly divided into six groups (n = 6): Control, SC 
-induced AD, SC + Memantine (1 mg/kg bwt p.o.), and three BV doses (5, 10, 
15 µl/kg, i.p, every other day) to study dose-dependent effects combined with 
SC. Memantine and BV were given to the animals two months before they developed 
AD, which happened on its own 14 days after treatment. After four days of 
behavioral assessment using the Morris Water Maze to evaluate cognitive 
function, the animals were humanely sacrificed. Blood and brain samples were 
collected for the measurement of serum liver and kidney function markers, 
oxidative and nitrosative stress parameters, cellular energy metabolites, amino 
acid profiles, neurotransmitters, and inflammatory markers in brain tissue. 
Results and Conclusion: The most remarkable neuroprotective effect was found in 
the group treated with BV medium and high dose showed a plateau, beyond which no 
more improvement was shown. These findings point toward a promising therapeutic 
approach for BV in the cognitive decline of AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01663-1
PMID: 40728549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests. The authors declare no 
competing interests.


49. Invest Radiol. 2025 Jul 29. doi: 10.1097/RLI.0000000000001229. Online ahead
of  print.

Accelerated MRI Sequences for Intracranial Hemorrhage Screening.

Loftus JR, McClelland AC, Hsu K, Nayak GK, Bruno M, Jachung R, Keerthivasan M, 
Sadowski M, Shepherd TM.

OBJECTIVES: Anti-amyloid-beta immunotherapy requires frequent MRI screening for 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities-hemorrhage subtype (ARIA-H), consisting of 
cerebral microbleeds (CMB) and/or superficial siderosis (SS), using 
gradient-recalled echo (GRE) or susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI). Screening 
MRI sequences for ARIA-H may benefit from acceleration to maximize patient 
enrollment by increased throughput and reduced motion degradation. This study 
assessed the diagnostic performance of standard GRE and SWI to echo-planar 
imaging (EPI) accelerated substitutions for detecting CMB and SS.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective single-center rater study included 50 
patients, 25 with CMB and 25 patients without CMB (median age 77 y, IQR: 70 to 
82 y; 30 of 50 female) who were imaged with FDG PET-3T MRI from April to July 
2023. Standard GRE (90 s) and SWI (192 s) were compared with an EPI-accelerated 
GRE (aGRE; 13 s, 86% time reduction) and an EPI-accelerated SWI substitution 
(aSWI; 33 s, 83% time reduction). Three board-certified neuroradiologists 
independently reported CMB and SS (per ARIA-H monitoring guidelines), perceived 
image quality and motion for each sequence. There were 240 total assessments per 
rater (the 4 different sequences for the 50 patients plus 10 duplicated 
patients). Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, 
area under the curve (AUC), inter-rater and intrarater agreement were determined 
for each sequence and rater.
RESULTS: The aggregate AUCs for the 4 individual sequences were excellent for 
detecting CMB (0.84 to 0.94) and SS (0.89 to 1.00) without statistical 
differences observed between standard and EPI-accelerated substitutions. Both 
aGRE and aSWI had high negative predictive values (96.5% to 100%). There were 
modest quantitative correlations between standard and accelerated sequences 
(0.606 and 0.391 for GRE and SWI, respectively), no differences in CMB count for 
aGRE (bias 0.01, P=0.895), but reduced CMB count with aSWI (bias -1.12, 
P=0.014). Inter-rater agreements were mildly reduced for both GRE versus aGRE 
(eg, 0.757 to 0.622 for CMB detection) and SWI versus aSWI (eg, 0.834 to 0.649 
for SS detection). Perceived image quality for accelerated sequences was 
reduced, but with less motion observed with aSWI.
CONCLUSIONS: The aGRE and aSWI sequences shorten scan times 86% and 83%, 
respectively, with similar diagnostic performance for ARIA-H screening, but 
reduced rater agreement and perceived image quality.

Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/RLI.0000000000001229
PMID: 40728376

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest and sources of funding: 
M.B.: payment for lecture from Siemens Medical; support to attend meeting from 
Siemens Medical. M.K.: employee of Siemens Medical Solutions USA Inc. M.S.: 
consulting Fee: Biogen, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Axsome, Oligomerix, Cognition 
Therapeutics, In Kind Consulting: GlaxoSmithKline, Industry Funded Research 
(Clinical Trials): Biogen, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Novartis, Janssen, Neurim 
Pharmaceuticals, GlaxoSmithKline, Alnylam, Ono Pharmaceutical. T.S.: 
MICroStructure Imaging (MICSI), equity and scientific advisor, Payment for 
medicolegal expert testimony. The remaining authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


50. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70504. doi: 10.1002/alz.70504.

Amyloid PET and clinical management in a diverse, cognitively impaired 
population: The New IDEAS Study.

Windon CC(1), Gatsonis C(2)(3), Carrillo MC(4), Romanoff J(2), Hanna L(2), 
Glavin E(5), Gareen I(2)(6), Gutman R(2)(3), Hillner BE(7), March A(5), O'Bryant 
S(8)(9), Rissman RA(10), Siegel BA(11), Smith K(1), Whitmer RA(12)(13), Weber 
CJ(4), Wilkins CH(14), Dilworth-Anderson P(15), Rabinovici GD(1)(16).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Memory and Aging Center, Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California, USA.
(2)Center for Biostatistics and Health Data Science, Brown University School of 
Public Health, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Brown University School of Public Health, 
Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(4)Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(5)Center for Research and Innovation, American College of Radiology, Reston, 
Virginia, USA.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, Brown University School of Public Health, 
Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, Virginia, 
USA.
(8)Institute for Translational Research, University of North Texas Health 
Science Center, Fort Worth, Texas, USA.
(9)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, University of North Texas Health 
Science Center, Fort Worth, Texas, USA.
(10)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience, Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research 
Institute, Keck School of Medicine of the University of Southern California, San 
Diego, California, USA.
(11)Edward Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(12)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente, Oakland, California, USA.
(13)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California Davis, Davis, 
California, USA.
(14)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatric Medicine, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(15)Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(16)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The New Imaging Dementia-Evidence for Amyloid Scanning (IDEAS) 
study (NCT04426539) evaluated the association between amyloid positron emission 
tomography (PET) and changes in clinical management among ethnoracially diverse, 
clinically heterogeneous patients.
METHODS: We assessed diagnosis and management plan before and 90 ± 30 days after 
amyloid PET among Medicare beneficiaries who met 2018 National Institute on 
Aging-Alzheimer's Association criteria for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or 
dementia. We aimed to identify ≥ 30% change in a composite patient management 
endpoint (CPME; i.e., changes in Alzheimer's disease [AD]/non-AD medications, 
changes in counseling).
RESULTS: Among 5757 participants (median age 75 years; 21.7% Black, 20.3% 
Latinx, 58.1% all other races/ethnicities [AORE]), a change in CPME occurred in 
59.0% (95% confidence interval 57.6%-60.5%) of individuals post PET. Change 
varied by ethnoracial identity and type of clinical presentation: Black (MCI: 
55.3%, dementia: 55.8%), Latinx (MCI: 53.7%, dementia: 61.9%), AORE (MCI: 62.0%, 
dementia: 58.3%), typical (MCI: 64.8%, dementia: 60.9%), atypical (MCI 45.5%, 
dementia: 53.6%).
DISCUSSION: Amyloid PET is associated with clinical management among diverse, 
clinically heterogeneous populations.
HIGHLIGHTS: Changes in management plan occurred in 59% of patients 90 days after 
amyloid positron emission tomography. Rates of change in management exceeded the 
pre-specified goal of > 30% across ethnoracial groups. Rates of change in 
management also exceeded > 30% among amnestic and non-amnestic Alzheimer's 
disease presentations.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70504
PMCID: PMC12305457
PMID: 40728069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CCW reports receiving grants from the 
Alzheimer's Association and the NIA. He has received honorariums from LCN, 
Kinetix Group, and Onviv Inc. CG and BEH report support from the American 
College of Radiology. JR, LH, and KS were supported by the American College of 
Radiology through institutional funding. MCC is a full‐time employee of the 
Alzheimer's Association. EG and AM are salaried employees of the American 
College of Radiology. IFG and RG report support from the Alzheimer's Association 
and the American College of Radiology. RAR reports research support from the 
National Institute on Aging and the Alzheimer's Association and is a consultant 
for Amydis Inc, Bioivt, Lexeo, Keystone Bio, Allyx, DiamiR, Ionis, and 
PrecisionMed. BAS reports receiving grants to institution from the American 
College of Radiology (ACR) during the conduct of the study; personal fees from 
Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Curium Pharma, Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Lantheus 
Medical Imaging, the American Medical Foundation for Peer Review and Education, 
Siemens Healthineers (for spouse), ACR (also for spouse), Capella Imaging, 
ECOG‐ACRIN Medical Research Foundation (also for spouse), Evicore Healthcare 
(for spouse), GE Healthcare, and Radiological Society of North America (also for 
spouse) outside the submitted work; and grants from Curium Pharma, Progenics 
Pharmaceuticals, ImaginAb, and Blue Earth Diagnostics outside the submitted 
work. RAW reports grants from the NIH and NIA and consulting fees from Genentech 
PanNeuro. She is the epidemiology section editor for Alzheimer's and Dementia. 
CJW is a full‐time employee of the Alzheimer's Association. CHW reports grants 
from the NIH, PCORI, and the American College of Radiology. GDR received 
research support from Genentech. He has served as a paid scientific consultant 
for Alector, Bristol Myers Squibb, C2N, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly, 
Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novo Norodisk, Roche. He is an associate editor for 
JAMA and JAMA Neurology. All other authors report no conflicts of interest 
relevant to this work. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


51. ACS Omega. 2025 Jul 8;10(28):31208. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.5c06137.
eCollection  2025 Jul 22.

Retraction of "Design, Synthesis, and Biological Evaluation of Notopterol 
Derivatives as Triple Inhibitors of AChE/BACE1/GSK3β for the Treatment of 
Alzheimer's Disease".

Wang N, Liu W, Zhou L, Liu W, Liang X, Liu X, Xu Z, Zhong T, Wu Q, Jiao X, Chen 
J, Ning X, Jiang X, Zhao Q.

Retraction of
    ACS Omega. 2022 Aug 30;7(36):32131-32152. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.2c03368.

[This retracts the article DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.2c03368.].

© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.5c06137
PMCID: PMC12290926
PMID: 40727792


52. Biophys Rev. 2025 Feb 15;17(3):737-758. doi: 10.1007/s12551-025-01286-x. 
eCollection 2025 Jun.

Integrating chemical artificial intelligence and cognitive computing for 
predictive analysis of biological pathways: a case for intrinsically disordered 
proteins.

Coskuner-Weber O(1), Gentili PL(2), Uversky VN(3).

Author information:
(1)Turkish-German University, Molecular Biotechnology, Sahinkaya Caddesi, No. 
106, Beykoz, Istanbul, 34820 Turkey.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Biology, and Biotechnology, Università Degli Studi 
Di Perugia, 06123 Perugia, Italy.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine and USF Health Byrd Alzheimer's Institute, 
Morsani College of Medicine, University of South Florida, 12901 Bruce B. Downs 
Blvd., MDC07, Tampa, FL 33612 USA.

Incorporating biological molecular interactions into cognitive computing through 
chemical artificial intelligence (AI) presents a transformative approach with 
far-reaching implications for various fields, such as protein engineering, drug 
discovery, bioinformatics, synthetic biology, and unconventional computing. 
Cognitive computing, designed to emulate human thought processes and enhance 
decision-making, utilizes technologies, such as machine learning, natural 
language processing, and speech recognition for better human-system 
interactions. Despite advancements, the integration of biological processes with 
cognitive computing remains fraught with challenges, particularly due to the 
complexity and scale of biological data. Here, we explore the possible benefits 
of connecting cognitive computing with biological knowledge, including more 
precise models of protein interactions, gene regulation, and metabolic pathways, 
which could lead to personalized treatments and early disease detection. 
Furthermore, we discuss the intersection of cognitive computing and biophysical 
research techniques, examining how analogies from neuroscience-like synaptic 
communication and neural plasticity-can inform the development of neuromorphic 
chips and enhance predictive models. Additionally, the study delves into 
intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) and their crucial roles in brain 
function and information processing. These insights are pivotal for advancing 
neuroinformatics and creating more adaptive, context-aware cognitive computing 
algorithms. By leveraging biophysical investigations and the unique properties 
of IDPs, the research aims to bridge the gap between the biological processes 
and their computational analogs, proposing novel methods, such as chemical AI 
implemented in liquid solutions as promising avenues for future advancements.

© International Union for Pure and Applied Biophysics (IUPAB) and 
Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2025. Springer Nature or 
its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this 
article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other 
rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of 
this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and 
applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s12551-025-01286-x
PMCID: PMC12290163
PMID: 40727659

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no 
competing interests.


53. Front Mol Neurosci. 2025 Jul 14;18:1619583. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2025.1619583. 
eCollection 2025.

Inhibition of BET proteins modulates amyloid-beta accumulation and cognitive 
performance in middle-aged mice prenatally exposed to maternal immune 
activation.

Matuszewska M(1), Wilkaniec A(1), Gąssowska-Dobrowolska M(1), Cieślik M(1), 
Olech-Kochańczyk G(1), Pałasz E(1), Gawinek E(1), Strawski M(2), Czapski GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular Signalling, Mossakowski Medical Research Institute 
Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Chemistry, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: Given the complex etiological basis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
it is reasonable to hypothesize that neuronal dysfunction and death result from 
the interplay of numerous factors, both genetic and environmental. Accumulating 
evidence implicates the immune system and inflammation as key components of the 
pathomechanism of AD. In the present study, we analyzed the effect of maternal 
immune activation (MIA) on AD-related pathological changes in middle-aged 
12-month-old offspring mice. Additionally, we investigated whether the 
inhibition of bromodomain and extraterminal domain (BET) proteins, which are 
readers of the histone acetylation code, could influence these changes.
METHODS: In our study, we administered a viral mimetic, 
polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (PIC), on gestation day 17 to induce MIA in 
wild-type C57BL/6J mice. The BET protein inhibitor, OTX-015 (Birabresib), was 
administered orally to 12-month-old male offspring for 14 days. Subsequently, 
behavioral, genetic, and immunochemical analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Our results demonstrated several MIA-evoked molecular alterations in 
the brains of middle-aged offspring. We observed an increase in App gene 
expression (qPCR) and amyloid-β (Aβ) levels (ELISA), while the levels and 
phosphorylation of Tau protein remained unchanged (WB). The mRNA levels of 
selected microglial markers were also elevated in the MIA group. Treatment with 
OTX-015 improved memory, as observed in the novel object recognition test, and 
reduced Aβ levels, but did not alter the expression of inflammatory genes or 
amyloidogenesis-related genes.
DISCUSSION: Our findings suggest that inhibition of BET proteins may effectively 
attenuate neuropathological alterations in the aged brain.

Copyright © 2025 Matuszewska, Wilkaniec, Gąssowska-Dobrowolska, Cieślik, 
Olech-Kochańczyk, Pałasz, Gawinek, Strawski and Czapski.

DOI: 10.3389/fnmol.2025.1619583
PMCID: PMC12301310
PMID: 40727583

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


54. J Alzheimers Dis Rep. 2025 Jul 23;9:25424823251362469. doi: 
10.1177/25424823251362469. eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

Causal associations and shared genetic etiology between neurodegenerative 
diseases and constipation.

Sun W(1), Zhu A(1), Chang H(2), Xia J(3), Gao J(1), Zhang Z(4), Chi F(1), Zhu 
Y(1), Bao X(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin 
Medical University, Harbin, China.
(2)Center for Clinical Research, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, Fudan University 
Pudong Medical Center, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Shanghai Pudong 
Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Xinqiao Hospital, Army Medical University, 
Chongqing, China.
(5)Department of Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: There is increasing evidence suggesting a correlation between 
neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) and constipation; however, their genetic 
relationship and causal mechanisms remain inadequately elucidated.
OBJECTIVE: We aim to investigate the causal link and shared genetic basis 
between NDDs and constipation.
METHODS: We obtained summary statistics from large-scale genome-wide association 
studies, encompassing five NDDs, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Lewy 
body dementia (LBD), as well as constipation. The primary analysis employed five 
Mendelian randomization methods to evaluate causal effects, while linkage 
disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) and high-definition likelihood (HDL) were 
utilized to investigate genetic correlations. Additionally, significant 
pleiotropic SNPs were identified using pleiotropic analysis under the composite 
null hypothesis (PLACO) and functional mapping and annotation (FUMA). Finally, 
enrichment analysis was conducted to explore the biological pathways associated 
with the identified pleiotropic genes.
RESULTS: MR analysis revealed a significant causal relationship between AD and 
an enhanced risk of constipation was demonstrated (OR = 1.043, 95% CI: 
1.015-1.073, p = 0.003), while no causality was found between PD, MS, ALS, LBD, 
and the risk of constipation (p > 0.05). LDSC and HDL analysis revealed a 
significant positive genetic correlation between AD and constipation. Using 
PLACO combined with FUMA, we identified 30 overlapping pleiotropic loci, with 
pathway enrichment analysis revealing important biological pathways related to 
Aβ metabolism and processing, tau protein process, and the complement and 
coagulation cascades.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicates that AD is a contributing factor to 
constipation and uncovers the complex genetic mechanisms linking AD and 
constipation, which holds significant implications for diagnosis and treatment 
of both conditions.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/25424823251362469
PMCID: PMC12301607
PMID: 40727259

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


55. Front Psychol. 2025 Jul 14;16:1474579. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2025.1474579. 
eCollection 2025.

The underlying mechanism of physical exercise on neurodegenerative diseases: the 
mediating role of psychological stress and resilience: a systematic review.

Jiang Q(1), Liu Y(1), Wei Y(2), Kuan G(3), Ma L(4), Wang H(5), Wang Y(6), Lou 
H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Sports Science, Nantong University, Nantong, China.
(2)Institute of Rehabilitation Research, Nantong Rehabilitation Hospital, 
Nantong, China.
(3)School of Health Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Kubang Kerian, 
Kelantan, Malaysia.
(4)School of Information Science and Technology, Nantong University, Nantong, 
China.
(5)Institute of Special Environmental Medicine, Nantong University, Nantong, 
China.
(6)Nursing College of Nantong University, Nantong University, Nantong, China.

Theories and experiments have shown that physical exercise can improve mental 
resilience and resist the negative effects of psychological stress. 
Neurodegenerative diseases are a collection of diseases in which progressive 
changes in the structure and function of neurons result in progressive disorders 
of cognitive and motor function, greatly reducing the quality of life of the 
patient. The latest research suggests that psychological factors such as 
psychological stress and resilience also have an impact on the onset, symptoms, 
and course of Neurodegenerative diseases. However, the specific mechanisms in 
the above pathways are unclear, so this study introduced psychological factors 
such as psychological stress and resilience and explore the mechanism of 
physical exercise in improving NDDs by influencing psychological factors such as 
psychological stress and resilience. This review examined four electronic 
databases (PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, and CNKI) up to May 2024, 
selecting a total of 95 articles. A logical analysis approach was employed to 
evaluate the literature. The findings revealed that: (1) Exercise can enhance 
resilience by reducing negative emotions or fulfilling individual needs, thereby 
diminishing the harmful effects of stress, a key risk factor for NDDs. (2) 
Exercise alleviates NDDs through neurobiological pathways such as improving 
immune function, regulating endocrine and neurotransmitter levels, and modifying 
neuronal structure. (3) Long-term, regular high-intensity exercise effectively 
enhances resilience and helps prevent and treat NDDs. Exercise has a positive 
impact on the prevention and treatment of NDDs. Clarifying the mechanisms by 
which exercise improves NDDs is crucial for providing new theoretical insights 
into the diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of psychologically induced NDDs, 
as well as offering practical guidance and feasible strategies for using 
exercise to prevent and mitigate NDDs.

Copyright © 2025 Jiang, Liu, Wei, Kuan, Ma, Wang, Wang and Lou.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2025.1474579
PMCID: PMC12302032
PMID: 40727044

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


56. Ann Neurosci. 2025 Jul 24:09727531251356049. doi: 10.1177/09727531251356049. 
Online ahead of print.

Enhanced Neuroprotection by Diosgenin and Pterostilbene Combination Against 
Neurotoxicity Induced by Amyloid-Β 1-42 in SH-SY5Y Differentiated Cell Models.

Fatima SJ(1), Prasad DK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Anurag University, Hyderabad, Telangana, India.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the predominant age-related 
neurodegenerative condition, characterised by the gradual and irreversible loss 
of neurons. Key pathological features include amyloid plaques and 
neurofibrillary tangles, which trigger a chronic inflammatory response in the 
brain, leading to microglial activation and proliferation.
PURPOSE: This study evaluated the neuroprotective potential of diosgenin (DGN) 
and pterostilbene, two phytoconstituents with known antioxidant and 
anti-inflammatory properties, in amyloid-β 1-42 exposed SH-SY5Y cells.
METHODS: Human neuroblastoma cells were cultured and neurodifferentiated with 
retinoic acid, then exposed to amyloid-β 1-42 to simulate the AD model. 
Treatments included DGN (1.5 µM), pterostilbene (PTB) (1.5 µM), their 
combination (0.25 µM and 0.5 µM), and donepezil (1.2 µM) as a standard drug for 
comparison. The effects of treatments were assessed through cell viability, 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokines, and 
BDNF levels using various assays, including flow cytometry, ELISA, Western 
blotting, and inhibitory assays for NOS, H2O2-mediated oxidative stress, DPPH, 
AChE, and β-secretase.
RESULTS: DGN and PTB combination indicated increased cell viability, reduced 
microglial activation, decreased apoptosis, and lower ROS levels, with the 
maximum effect observed in the combination group (0.5 µM). Combination 
treatments also showed maximum inhibition in various assays and reduced levels 
of cytokines while upregulating BDNF, highlighting their neuroprotective, 
anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant activities.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest that the combination of DGN and PTB may serve 
as an effective neuroinflammatory modulator in managing neurodegenerative 
diseases.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/09727531251356049
PMCID: PMC12289621
PMID: 40726803

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship and/or publication of this 
article.


57. ACS Cent Sci. 2025 Mar 20;11(7):1062-1070. doi: 10.1021/acscentsci.5c00027. 
eCollection 2025 Jul 23.

Engineering a Green Fluorescent Protein-Core-Inspired NIR-Photocage: Exploring 
meso-GFP-PRPG toward Alzheimer's Disease Therapeutics.

Mondal S(1), An J(2), Bera T(3), Banerjee M(1), Debnath S(2), Mandal D(1), 
Sikder A(1), Guha S(3), Kim JS(2), Singh NDP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, Kharagpur 
721302, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Korea University, Seoul 02841, Korea.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Organic Chemistry Section, Jadavpur University, 
Kolkata 700032, India.

NIR light-activated photocage with inherent protein tagging ability is 
unprecedented in contemporary photochemistry. Herein, we introduce a series of 
protein-taggable NIR-photocages derived from green fluorescent protein (GFP) 
chromophore analogs with spatiotemporal control for releasing the caged 
bioactive molecules. Through molecular engineering of the GFP chromophoric 
scaffold, a series of meso-substituted oxazolone-photocages (meso-GFP-PRPG) were 
judiciously designed and synthesized. These photocages, anchored with 
electron-donating groups (EDG) and electron-withdrawing groups (EWG), 
accommodate diverse payloads, including aliphatic carboxylic acids, expanding 
the possibilities for tailoring their properties and applications. Notably, 
under anaerobic conditions, irradiation of meso-GFP-PRPG leads to fast and 
efficient release of caged molecules. Insightful experimental and theoretical 
investigations revealed that photorelease is predominantly driven by the triplet 
state photochemistry in anaerobic conditions. The concept's theranostic 
potential was demonstrated by the conditional release of valproic acid, a 
neuroprotective agent for Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment. meso-GFP-PRPG 
(15E) showed enhanced NIR emission with Aβ oligomers and fibrils (30-37 fold vs 
ThT) and effectively degraded amyloid fibrils under 640 nm light, offering a 
promising targeted treatment approach for neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acscentsci.5c00027
PMCID: PMC12291143
PMID: 40726797


58. ACS Cent Sci. 2025 Apr 7;11(7):1024-1025. doi: 10.1021/acscentsci.5c00553. 
eCollection 2025 Jul 23.

Protein-Taggable Near-Infrared Photocages for Theranostics of Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Ma M(1), Zhao Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology, Nanyang 
Technological University, 21 Nanyang Link, Singapore 637371, Singapore.

Protein-tagged near-infrared-activatable photocages have been developed for the 
simultaneous diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Published 2025 by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acscentsci.5c00553
PMCID: PMC12291107
PMID: 40726790


59. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2025 Jul 18;8(8):2448-2464. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.5c00031. eCollection 2025 Aug 8.

Oral Prodrug of a Novel Glutathione Surrogate Reverses Metabolic Dysregulation 
and Attenuates Neurodegenerative Process in Transgenic Alzheimer's Mice.

Rao SP(1), Imam-Fulani AO(2), Xie W(1), Phillip S(2), Chennavajula K(2), Bhilare 
KD(1), Lind EB(2)(3), Zhang Y(4), Vince R(1), Lee MK(2)(3), More SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Drug Design, College of Pharmacy, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, United States.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55455, United States.
(3)Institute for Translational Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, United States.
(4)Minnesota Supercomputing Institute, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 
Minnesota 55455, United States.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2025 Jan 17:2025.01.15.633247. doi: 10.1101/2025.01.15.633247.

Glycation-induced oxidative stress underlies the numerous metabolic ravages of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Reduced glutathione levels in AD lead to increased 
oxidative stress, including glycation-induced pathology. Previously, we showed 
that the accumulation of reactive 1,2-dicarbonyls such as methylglyoxal, the 
major precursor of nonenzymatic glycation products, was reduced by the increased 
function of GSH-dependent glyoxalase-1 enzyme in the brain. In this two-pronged 
study, we evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of an orally bioavailable prodrug of 
our lead glyoxalase substrate, pro-ψ-GSH, for the first time in a transgenic 
Alzheimer's disease mouse model. This prodrug delivers pharmacodynamically 
relevant brain concentrations of ψ-GSH upon oral delivery. Chronic oral dosing 
of pro-ψ-GSH effectively reversed the cognitive decline observed in the APP/PS1 
mouse model. The prodrug successfully mirrors the robust effects of the parent 
drug, i.e., reducing amyloid pathology, glycation stress, neuroinflammation, and 
the resultant neurodegeneration, in these mice. We also report the first 
metabolomics study of such a treatment that yields key biomarkers linked to the 
reversal of AD-related metabolic dysregulation. Collectively, this study 
demonstrates the neuroprotective effect of pro-ψ-GSH in a symptomatic 
preclinical model of AD and paves the way for further preclinical advancement of 
such therapeutics. Metabolomic signatures identified could prove beneficial in 
the development of treatment-specific, clinically translatable biomarkers.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.5c00031
PMCID: PMC12291054
PMID: 40726727

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing 
financial interest(s): S.S.M. and R.V. are co-inventors on the patent 
applications relating to psi-GSH and its analogs as treatment options for 
neurodegenerative disorders and liver diseases. The funders had no role in the 
design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in 
the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to publish the results.


60. Phytochem Anal. 2025 Jul 29. doi: 10.1002/pca.70020. Online ahead of print.

Phytochemical Nanoparticles for the Treatment of Neurological Disorders.

Ehtezazi T(1), Sarker SD(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Natural Product Discovery, School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular 
Sciences, Liverpool John Moores University, Liverpool, UK.

Neurological disorders impose a significant burden on the healthcare systems. 
The latest published data by WHO indicated that stroke was the second leading 
cause of death globally in 2020, with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other 
dementias in the seventh position. The treatment of neurological disorders is 
challenging because of the complex nature of the disease, as well as limited 
accessibility to this target organ due to several biological barriers. There is 
a wide range of treatment options for neurological disorders. Small drug 
molecules, antibodies, and stem cells have been employed for the treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases such as AD, but currently, there is no effective 
treatment for AD. As conventional drugs have not been successful in achieving 
therapeutic outcomes, natural products such as curcumin, stemming from 
traditional medicines, have been tested for the treatment of neurodegenerative 
diseases such as AD. However, this compound has not shown significant 
therapeutic effects for the treatment of brain diseases, mainly due to rapid 
clearance from the body. Therefore, phytochemical nanoparticles have been 
developed. In this review article, the rationale has been provided for the use 
of nanoparticles for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases with emphasis 
on phytochemical nanoparticles.

© 2025 The Author(s). Phytochemical Analysis published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pca.70020
PMID: 4072644261. Medicine (Baltimore). 2025 Jul 25;104(30):e43542. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000043542.

Unveiling the therapeutic potential of the gut microbiota-brain axis: Novel 
insights and clinical applications in neurological disorders.

Ugwu OP(1), Okon MB(1), Alum EU(1), Ugwu CN(1), Anyanwu EG(2), Mariam B(3), 
Ogenyi FC(1), Eze VHU(1), Anyanwu CN(4), Ezeonwumelu JOC(5), Egba SI(1), Uti 
DE(1), Onohuean H(6), Aja PM(7), Ugwu MN(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Publication and Extension, Kampala International University, 
Kansanga, Kampala, Uganda.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Biomedical Sciences, Kampala International 
University, Kansanga, Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Health Care and Data Management, Leiden University, Leiden, Netherlands.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Kampala International University, 
Kansanga, Kampala, Uganda.
(5)Faculty of Pharmacy, Kampala International University, Kansanga, Kampala, 
Uganda.
(6)Biopharmaceutics Unit, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of 
Pharmacy, Kansanga, Kampala, Uganda.
(7)Department of Biochemistry, Kampala International University, Kansanga, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(8)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, State 
University of Medical and Applied Science, Igbo Eno, Enugu, Nigeria.

Over the last several years, the gut microbiota-brain axis has been the focus of 
medical study, demonstrating the bidirectional nature of gut and brain 
communication and the resulting influence on neurological and mental health. 
Trillions of microorganisms, particularly those found in the gastrointestinal 
tract, contribute the most to the pathophysiology recovery of organs that are 
critical to human health, such as digestive processes and metabolism, immune 
responses, and even cognitive function. Dysbiosis (a disturbance in the 
microbiome balance) has been identified as one of the risk factors for 
neuropsychiatric illnesses such as depression, anxiety, autism spectrum 
disorder, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. Therapeutic strategies 
aimed at the gut microbiota, such as probiotics, dietary modifications, 
prebiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation, will eventually offer ways to 
alleviate symptoms associated with these disorders by restoring microbial 
balance, modulating the immune response, and influencing the production of major 
neurotransmitters. Innovative drug carriers, such as microbially-derived 
nanoparticles and probiotics that target particular parts of the gut or 
microbial communities, may improve pharmaceutical treatment efficacy and 
specificity. The resolution of difficulties such as ethical concerns, unexpected 
repercussions, and peak performance optimization in a clinical setting is 
critical for the advancement of this subject.

Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000043542
PMCID: PMC12303509
PMID: 40725913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no funding and conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


62. J Clin Med. 2025 Jul 16;14(14):5039. doi: 10.3390/jcm14145039.

Understanding Insulin Actions Beyond Glycemic Control: A Narrative Review.

Riachi R(1), Khalife E(1), Kędzia A(1), Niechciał E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Diabetes, Clinical Auxology and Obesity, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, 60-572 Poznan, Poland.

Insulin, traditionally recognized for its pivotal role in glycemic regulation, 
exerts extensive effects beyond glucose homeostasis, influencing multiple 
physiological systems. This narrative review explores the multifaceted actions 
of insulin, emphasizing its impact on skeletal muscle remodeling, protein and 
lipid metabolism, growth, reproductive health, and the central nervous system. 
Methods: An in-depth review of articles with evidence-based research discussing 
insulin actions beyond glycemic control was conducted in this review paper. 
Results: Insulin directly influences lipid and protein metabolism as well as 
growth hormone levels. This hormone provides a protective effect on the skeletal 
and central nervous systems, helping to maintain homeostasis and potentially 
reducing the risk of certain disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. The 
significance of insulin balance in the reproductive system is also crucial, with 
recent research indicating that insulin plays a role in worsening symptoms and 
complications associated with polycystic ovary syndrome. This review underscores 
the importance of maintaining proper insulin levels to lower the risk of insulin 
resistance. Ongoing research aims to deepen our understanding of insulin's 
functions, which are essential for preventing specific diseases and developing 
new treatment strategies. Conclusions: Insulin's action extends far beyond 
glucose metabolism, affecting many systems and preventing pathological changes 
in some.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm14145039
PMCID: PMC12294866
PMID: 40725728

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


63. Genes (Basel). 2025 Jul 12;16(7):818. doi: 10.3390/genes16070818.

Brain and CSF Alzheimer's Biomarkers Are Associated with SERPINE1 Gene 
Expression.

Picard C(1)(2), Zetterberg H(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Blennow K(3)(4), Villeneuve 
S(1)(2)(10), Poirier J(1)(2)(10), On Behalf Of The Prevent-Ad Research Group(2).

Author information:
(1)Douglas Mental Health University Institute, Montréal, QC H4H 1R3, Canada.
(2)Centre for the Studies on Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease, Montréal, QC H4H 
1R3, Canada.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, SE-405 30 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 431 30 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London 
WC1N 3BG, UK.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(7)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong 1501-02 15, China.
(8)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 
53715, USA.
(9)Centre for Brain Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bangladore 560012, 
India.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montréal, QC H3A 0C8, Canada.

BACKGROUND: SERPINE1, also known as plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI), has 
been proposed as a potential blood biomarker for the early detection and 
diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Expanding on previous studies, this 
research contrasted SERPINE1 levels in CSF and brain tissue of AD patients and 
those at risk for AD with established AD biomarkers.
METHODS: Utilizing OLINK and immunoassay methods, CSF SERPINE1 protein levels 
were quantified across two separate cohorts: PREVENT-AD and ADNI. Microarray and 
RNAseq were used to measure tissue SERPINE1 mRNA levels in two separate cohorts: 
the Douglas-Bell Canada Brain Bank and the Mayo Clinic Brain Bank.
RESULTS: At the pre-clinical stage, elevated CSF levels of pTau, tTau and 
synaptic markers, alongside reduced hippocampal volume, correlate with CSF 
SERPINE1 levels. Elevated cortical SERPINE1 mRNA levels in autopsy-confirmed AD 
show weak correlation with regional plaques and tangles densities, but strong 
correlation with Braak staging.
CONCLUSIONS: CSF SERPINE1 levels can be used as an early biomarker for the 
detection of pathological changes associated with AD. Higher SERPINE1 levels 
correlate more strongly with tau pathology than with amyloid formation or 
deposition.

DOI: 10.3390/genes16070818
PMCID: PMC12294632
PMID: 40725474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JP serves as a scientific advisor to the 
Alzheimer Society of France. H.Z. has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics and Wave; has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk and 
Roche; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
K.B. has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, 
ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd., Neurimmune, 
Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics and Siemens Healthineers; has 
served at data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given 
lectures, produced educational materials and participated in educational 
programmes for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; 
and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which 
is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in 
this paper. All other authors have nothing to disclose.


64. Genes (Basel). 2025 Jun 30;16(7):782. doi: 10.3390/genes16070782.

Intron Retention and Alzheimer's Disease (AD): A Review of Regulation Genes 
Implicated in AD.

El-Seedy A(1), Ladevèze V(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Genetics, Department of Genetics, 
Alexandria University, Aflaton Street, El-Shatby, Alexandria 21545, Egypt.
(2)Laboratoire MOVE-UR20296, University of Poitiers, Pôle Biologie Santé-Bât 
B36, 1 rue G. Bonnet-TSA 51156, Cedex 9, 86073 Poitiers, France.

Determining the genetic variations of candidate genes in affected subjects will 
help identify early pathological biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
develop effective treatments. It has recently been found that some genes that 
are linked share an increase in intron retention (IR). In this review, we 
discuss a few instances of mRNA-IR in various genes linked to AD, including 
APOE, MAPT-Tau, Psen2, Farp1, Gpx4, Clu, HDAC4, Slc16a3, and App genes. These 
genes are vulnerable to IR, encompassing additional crucial proteins for brain 
functionality, but they are frequently involved in pathways linked to the 
control of mRNA and protein homeostasis. Despite the advancements in human in 
vivo RNA therapy, as far as we know, there are no reports of data generated 
regarding artificial in vivo splicing in either animal models or humans. To 
prevent genetic variations and improve or repair errors in expression of desired 
genes, humans have adopted new gene editing techniques like CRISPR-Cas9 and RNAi 
modalities. Ultimately, IR could be utilized as a therapeutic potential 
biomarker for disorders related to intronic expansion.

DOI: 10.3390/genes16070782
PMCID: PMC12294458
PMID: 40725435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


65. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Jul 21;26(14):7023. doi: 10.3390/ijms26147023.

Neurosteroids, Microbiota, and Neuroinflammation: Mechanistic Insights and 
Therapeutic Perspectives.

Tahri A(1), Niccolai E(1)(2), Amedei A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, 
Largo Brambilla 3, 50134 Florence, Italy.
(2)Laboratorio Congiunto MIA-LAB (Microbiome-Immunity Axis Research for a 
Circular Health), University of Florence, Largo Brambilla 3, 50134 Florence, 
Italy.

The gut-brain axis (GBA) represents a complex bidirectional communication 
network that links the gut microbiota (GM) and the central nervous system (CNS). 
Recent research has revealed that neurosteroids (NSs) play crucial roles in 
modulating neuroinflammatory responses and promoting neuroprotection. Meanwhile, 
GM alterations have been associated with various neuroinflammatory and 
neurodegenerative conditions, such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, 
and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This review aims to provide a comprehensive 
overview of the intricate interactions between NS, GM, and neuroinflammation. We 
discuss how NS and metabolites can influence neuroinflammatory pathways through 
immune, metabolic, and neuronal mechanisms. Additionally, we explore how GM 
modulation can impact neurosteroidogenesis, highlighting potential therapeutic 
strategies that include probiotics, neuroactive metabolites, and targeted 
interventions. Understanding these interactions may pave the way for innovative 
treatment approaches for neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases, 
promoting a more integrated view of brain health and disease management.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26147023
PMCID: PMC12294831
PMID: 40725270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


66. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Jul 20;26(14):6980. doi: 10.3390/ijms26146980.

Alzheimer's Disease Etiology Hypotheses and Therapeutic Strategies: A 
Perspective.

Scarano N(1)(2), Musumeci F(1), Casini B(1)(2), Brullo C(1), D'Ursi P(2), Fossa 
P(1)(2), Schenone S(1), Cichero E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Section of Medicinal Chemistry, School of Medical and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Genoa, Viale Benedetto XV, 3, 16132 
Genoa, Italy.
(2)Institute for Biomedical Technologies, National Research Council, 20054 
Segrate, Milan, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, complex, multifactorial, 
neurodegenerative disease and accounts for most cases of dementia. The currently 
approved therapy includes cholinesterase inhibitors, NMDA-receptor antagonists 
and monoclonal antibodies. However, these medications were gradually discovered 
to be ineffective in removing the root of AD pathogenesis, having only 
symptomatic effects. Thus, the priority remains prevention and clarifying AD 
etiology. A better understanding of the neuroprotective mechanisms undertaken by 
specific genes is crucial to guide the design of novel therapeutic agents via 
selective ligands and precision medicine. In this review, we present a 
perspective of the physiological phase of the AD spectrum, of risk factors in AD 
with a focus on therapeutic approaches in three categories: 
neurotransmitters/ion modulations, peptide deposit control and aspecific 
treatments, followed by a discussion of treatment limitations. An overview of 
innovative strategies and non-pharmaceutical ancillary support is given.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26146980
PMCID: PMC12295398
PMID: 40725224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


67. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Jul 18;26(14):6922. doi: 10.3390/ijms26146922.

Hydrogen Gas Attenuates Toxic Metabolites and Oxidative Stress-Mediated 
Signaling to Inhibit Neurodegeneration and Enhance Memory in Alzheimer's Disease 
Models.

Abdul-Nasir S(1)(2), Chau CT(1)(2)(3), Nguyen TT(1)(2)(3), Bajgai J(2)(4), 
Rahman MH(2), Hwang-Un K(5), You IS(5), Kim CS(2), Seo BA(1)(2)(3)(6)(7), Lee 
KJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Medical Science, Wonju College of Medicine, Yonsei 
University, Wonju 26426, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Convergence Medicine, Wonju College of Medicine, Yonsei 
University, Wonju 26426, Republic of Korea.
(3)Organelle Medicine Research Center, Wonju College of Medicine, Yonsei 
University, Wonju 26426, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Wonju College of Medicine, Yonsei 
University Wonju 26426, Republic of Korea.
(5)GOOTZ Co., Ltd., Yuljeongro, 247 beon-gil, Yangju-si 11457, Republic of 
Korea.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, Wonju College of Medicine, Yonsei University, 
Wonju 26426, Republic of Korea.
(7)Natural Product Research Center, Korea Institute of Science and Technology, 
Gangneung 25451, Republic of Korea.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition in which amyloid-beta 
(Aβ) plaques trigger oxidative stress (OS) and neuroinflammation, causing memory 
loss. OS and neurodegeneration can also be caused by reactive astrocytes, 
thereby promoting AD via toxic metabolite accumulation in the astrocytic urea 
cycle. However, the effect of molecular hydrogen (H2) on this cycle remains 
unknown. Therefore, we investigated whether H2 treatment could reduce OS-induced 
neurodegeneration and memory loss. 5xFAD (n = 14) and wild-type (n = 15) mice 
were randomized into four groups and treated with either 3% hydrogen gas (H2) or 
vehicle for 60 days. Cognitive behaviors were evaluated using the Morris water 
maze and Y-maze tests. In addition, we used biochemical assays to measure 
ammonia and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) levels in the hippocampi of the mice and 
AβO-treated primary mouse astrocytes. Aβ, γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and the 
expression of inflammatory markers were evaluated using immunohistochemistry 
(IHC) and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). We 
observed that H2 treatment significantly prevented cognitive deficits, oxidative 
stress, the accumulation of toxic metabolites, and the increase in inflammatory 
markers in 5xFAD mice. These results suggest that H2 therapy can mitigate toxic 
metabolites in the astrocytic urea cycle, thereby reducing neurodegeneration and 
memory loss in AD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26146922
PMCID: PMC12295766
PMID: 40725167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors Kwon Hwang-Un and You In-Soo were 
employed by the GOOTZ Co., Ltd., Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea. They declare no 
conflicts of interest. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted without any commercial or financial relationships that could be 
construed as a potential conflict of interest.


68. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Jul 15;26(14):6759. doi: 10.3390/ijms26146759.

Aβ(40) Improves Cerebrovascular Endothelial Function via NOX4-Dependent Hydrogen 
Peroxide Release.

Heller E(1), McGurran L(1), Brown JK(1), Love K(1), Hobbs M(1), Kim-Han JS(1), 
Han BH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine, A.T. 
Still University of Health Sciences, Kirksville, MO 63501, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with an abnormal accumulation of amyloid 
β (Aβ) fibrils in the brain parenchyma and cerebrovasculature, which leads to 
cognitive impairment and cerebrovascular dysfunction. Cerebrovascular 
endothelial cells play a crucial role in regulating cerebral blood flow, 
vascular permeability, and neurovascular function. Reactive oxygen species 
(ROS), particularly those generated by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide 
phosphate (NADPH) oxidase 2 (NOX2), contribute to vascular dysfunction and 
amyloid deposition in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. However, the role of 
the NOX4 isoform in AD pathogenesis remains to be examined. In the present 
study, we found that NOX4 among the NOX isoforms is predominantly expressed in 
bEnd.3 mouse brain endothelial cells. Treatment with Aβ40 significantly enhanced 
the release of H2O2 and NO, and increased the endothelial cell viability. To 
test the involvement of NOX4 in Aβ40-induced H2O2 production, we utilized 
pharmacological inhibitors of NOX isoforms. Aβ40-induced H2O2 production was 
attenuated in the presence of the pan-NOX inhibitor, apocynin, or the 
NOX1/4-selective inhibitors, setanaxib and GKT136901. Since only the NOX4 
isoform is expressed in bEnd.3 cells, these results indicate that NOX4 is 
responsible for the release of H2O2 stimulated by Aβ40. Taken together, the 
present study demonstrated that Aβ40 peptide exerts beneficial effects in bEnd.3 
endothelial cells via the NOX4-dependent mechanism.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26146759
PMCID: PMC12294844
PMID: 40725005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


69. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Jul 13;26(14):6724. doi: 10.3390/ijms26146724.

Oxidative Stress in HIV-Associated Neurodegeneration: Mechanisms of Pathogenesis 
and Therapeutic Targets.

Gagliardi S(1), Hotchkin T(1), Hillmer G(1), Engelbride M(1), Diggs A(1), Tibebe 
H(1), Izumi C(1), Sullivan C(1), Cropp C(1), Lantz O(1), Marquez D(1), Chang 
J(1), Ezaki J(1), Zestos AG(2), Riley AL(3), Izumi T(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, College of Arts & Sciences, American University, 
Washington, DC 20016, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, College of Arts & Sciences, American University, 
Washington, DC 20016, USA.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, College of Arts & Sciences, American University, 
Washington, DC 20016, USA.
(4)District of Columbia Center for AIDS Research, Washington, DC 20052, USA.

Treatment for HIV infection has become more manageable due to advances in 
combination antiretroviral therapy (cART). However, HIV still significantly 
affects the central nervous system (CNS) in infected individuals, even with 
effective plasma viral suppression, due to persistent viral reservoirs and 
chronic neuroinflammation. This ongoing inflammation contributes to the 
development of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HANDs), including 
dementia and Alzheimer's disease-like pathology. These complications are 
particularly prevalent among the aging population with HIV. This review aims to 
provide a comprehensive overview of HAND, with a focus on the contribution of 
oxidative stress induced by HIV-mediated reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
production through viral proteins such as gp120, Tat, Nef, Vpr, and reverse 
transcriptase. In addition, we discuss current and emerging therapeutic 
interventions targeting HAND, including antioxidant strategies and poly 
(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. These are potential adjunctive 
approaches to mitigate neuroinflammation and oxidative damage in the CNS.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26146724
PMCID: PMC12295029
PMID: 40724974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


70. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Jul 12;26(14):6698. doi: 10.3390/ijms26146698.

A Systems Biology Approach to Memory Health: Integrating Network Pharmacology, 
Gut Microbiota, and Multi-Omics for Health Functional Foods.

Yuan H(1), Zhou J(2), Li H(1), Kang S(3), Park S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710049, China.
(2)Institute of Advanced Clinical Medicine, Peking University, Beijing 100871, 
China.
(3)Department of Food and Nutrition, Obesity/Diabetes Research Center, Hoseo 
University, Asan 31499, Republic of Korea.

Memory impairment, ranging from mild memory impairment to neurodegenerative 
diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, poses an escalating global health 
challenge that necessitates multi-targeted interventions to prevent progression. 
Health functional foods (HFFs), which include bioactive dietary compounds that 
not only provide basic nutrition but also function beyond that to modulate 
physiological pathways, offer a promising non-pharmacological strategy to 
preserve memory function. This review presents an integrative framework for the 
discovery, evaluation, and clinical translation of biomarkers responsive to HFFs 
in the context of preventing memory impairment. We examine both established 
clinical biomarkers, such as amyloid-β and tau in the cerebrospinal fluid, 
neuroimaging indicators, and memory assessments, as well as emerging 
nutritionally sensitive markers including cytokines, microRNAs, gut microbiota 
signatures, epigenetic modifications, and neuroactive metabolites. By leveraging 
systems biology approaches, we explore how network pharmacology, gut-brain axis 
modulation, and multi-omics integration can help to elucidate the complex 
interactions between HFF components and memory-related pathways such as 
neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, synaptic plasticity, and metabolic 
regulation. The review also addresses the translational pipeline for HFFs, from 
formulation and standardization to regulatory frameworks and clinical 
development, with an emphasis on precision nutrition strategies and 
cross-disciplinary integration. Ultimately, we propose a paradigm shift in 
memory health interventions, positioning HFFs as scientifically validated 
compounds for personalized nutrition within a preventative memory function 
framework.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26146698
PMCID: PMC12294780
PMID: 40724948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


71. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Jul 8;26(14):6570. doi: 10.3390/ijms26146570.

Anti-Inflammatory Effects of Cannabinoids in Therapy of Neurodegenerative 
Disorders and Inflammatory Diseases of the CNS.

Tomaszewska-Zaremba D(1), Gajewska A(1), Misztal T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Physiology, The Kielanowski Institute of Animal 
Physiology and Nutrition, Polish Academy of Sciences, 05-110 Jablonna, Poland.

Many neurodegenerative diseases are associated with immune system disorders, 
while neurodegenerative processes often occur in inflammatory conditions of the 
Central Nervous System (CNS). Cannabinoids exhibit significant therapeutic 
potential due to their dual ability to modulate both neural and immune 
functions. These compounds have a broad spectrum of action, allowing them to 
target multiple pathological mechanisms underlying neurodegenerative and 
inflammatory CNS diseases. The present review outlines the therapeutic potential 
of cannabinoids, with a focus on their anti-inflammatory properties, in the 
treatment of neurodegenerative conditions, including Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Huntington's disease, as 
well as inflammatory CNS disorders like multiple sclerosis and HIV-associated 
dementia.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26146570
PMCID: PMC12294762
PMID: 40724820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


72. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Jul 8;26(14):6553. doi: 10.3390/ijms26146553.

The Novel Melatonin Analog Containing Donepezil Fragment Prevents Cognitive 
Impairments and Associated Oxidative Stress in a Hybrid Rat Model of Melatonin 
Deficiency and icvAβ(1-42).

Ivanova P(1), Kortenska L(1), Angelova VT(2), Tchekalarova J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neurobiology, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, 1113 Sofia, 
Bulgaria.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University of Sofia, 1000 Sofia, Bulgaria.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in older adults 
and is becoming a major public health crisis as life expectancy increases 
worldwide. A major contributor to this disease is a deficiency in melatonin 
signaling. We have recently synthesised a series of melatonin analogs containing 
donepezil fragments. These compounds have been tested both in silico and in 
vitro. In this study, a particularly potent compound, 3a, was evaluated in a 
hybrid rat model of melatonin deficiency and AD. Rats underwent pinealectomy 
followed one week later by bilateral intracerebroventricular infusion of Aβ1-42 
(1 µg/µL). A 14-day subchronic treatment with compound 3a was started 
simultaneously with the neurotoxin infusion. Melatonin was used as a reference 
drug, while a matched sham group received vehicle treatment. One week after the 
Aβ1-42 infusion, the rats' cognitive functions were assessed using two Y-maze 
protocols, object recognition and object location tests. Markers of oxidative 
stress, including hippocampal glutathione, superoxide dismutase, and 
malondialdehyde, were assessed by ELISA. Compound 3a effectively prevented 
cognitive impairment induced by the AD model, and its effects were comparable to 
those of melatonin. In addition, this melatonin analogue with a donepezil 
fragment reduced AD-associated oxidative stress and suppressed model-associated 
increased Aβ1-42 levels in the hippocampus. Our findings suggest that melatonin 
analogs containing donepezil fragments are promising therapeutic options for 
targeting oxidative stress associated with AD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26146553
PMCID: PMC12294633
PMID: 40724803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


73. Life (Basel). 2025 Jun 28;15(7):1032. doi: 10.3390/life15071032.

Neuronal and Glial α7 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors: Role in Alzheimer's 
Disease Pathophysiology.

Rennie K(1).

Author information:
(1)Human Health Therapeutics, National Research Council, Ottawa, ON K1A 0R6, 
Canada.

Cholinergic projections from the basal forebrain to the cortex and hippocampus 
play a critical role in cognitive functions, many of which rely on signaling 
through the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7nAChR). The Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) brain is characterized by the profound impairment of the basal 
forebrain cholinergic system, including alterations in the levels of α7nAChR in 
various brain areas. In addition, α7nAChR binds with high affinity to beta 
amyloid (Aβ), suggesting α7nAChR might mediate some of Aβ's effects in the 
brain. Under normal physiological conditions, the interaction between Aβ and 
α7nAChR appears to be beneficial, supporting normal neurotransmission, synaptic 
plasticity, and memory functions. However, when levels of Aβ are pathologically 
elevated, their interaction leads to deleterious effects, implicating α7nAChR in 
the pathophysiology of AD. In addition to expression in neurons, α7nAChR is 
expressed in astrocytes and microglia, where it serves as a key component of a 
cholinergic pathway that regulates neuroinflammation. This review article will 
cover the role of α7nAChR in neurons, astrocytes and microglia under normal 
conditions, summarize changes in the expression or function of α7nAChR in 
neurons and glia in the AD brain, and discuss cell-type specific contributions 
of α7nAChR to AD pathology with an emphasis on interactions of α7nAChR with Aβ.

DOI: 10.3390/life15071032
PMCID: PMC12298375
PMID: 40724534

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflicts of interest.


74. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2025 Jun 20;22(7):970. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph22070970.

Increasing Care Partners' Capacity for Supporting Individuals Living with 
Dementia Through Bravo Zulu: Achieving Excellence in Relationship-Centered 
Dementia Care.

Carson J(1)(2), Koswatta TJ(3), Hoeper S(2)(3), Reed PS(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Dementia Engagement, Education, and Research (DEER) Program, School of Public 
Health, University of Nevada, Reno, NV 89557, USA.
(2)Department of Health Behavior, Policy and Administration Sciences, School of 
Public Health, University of Nevada, Reno, NV 89557, USA.
(3)Sanford Center for Aging, School of Medicine, University of Nevada, Reno, NV 
89557, USA.

The need for person- and relationship-centered care (PCC/RCC) in Alzheimer's 
disease and other dementias is well established. Recognizing the limitations of 
PCC in fully honoring the intricate interdependencies between care partners and 
persons living with dementia, a new training program called Bravo Zulu was 
developed. This comprehensive, 12-hour dementia training program aims to enhance 
personhood beliefs and self-efficacy among care partners, improving the 
experience of care and support for both people living with dementia and their 
care partners. Responses from 182 participants who completed the training were 
analyzed using paired t-tests to assess changes in personhood beliefs and 
self-efficacy. The Bravo Zulu training produced significant increases in both 
personhood beliefs and self-efficacy. Notably, healthcare professionals without 
prior care partner training exhibited the greatest gains in personhood beliefs, 
while participants who were not direct care partners showed substantial 
improvements in self-efficacy. Overall, these findings support the concept of 
tailoring dementia education to ensure care partners and healthcare 
professionals are able to provide culturally competent care that is aligned with 
the diverse backgrounds of people living with dementia. Expanding access to 
high-quality interactive programs such as Bravo Zulu can contribute to 
strengthening the dementia care workforce and improving care experiences for all 
involved.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph22070970
PMCID: PMC12294183
PMID: 40724037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The data analysis, interpretation of results, and initial manuscript draft were 
led by T.K. while J.C., who developed and delivered the training, was not 
involved in the analysis or interpretation of the findings to prevent any undue 
influence on the representation or interpretation of the research results. The 
funders had no role in the design of this study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


75. Biomolecules. 2025 Jun 28;15(7):941. doi: 10.3390/biom15070941.

Uric Acid, the End-Product of Purine Metabolism, Mitigates Tau-Related 
Abnormalities: Comparison with DOT, a Non-Antibiotic Oxytetracycline Derivative.

Andretto de Mattos B(1)(2), Tomas-Grau RH(1)(3), Alves Fernandes TA(1)(2), 
González-Lizárraga F(1)(3), Tourville A(1), Ciss I(1)(4), Brunel JM(5), Chehin 
R(3), Lannuzel A(1)(6), Ferrié L(4), Raisman-Vozari R(1), Figadère B(4), Del Bel 
E(2)(7), Michel PP(1).

Author information:
(1)Paris Brain Institute-ICM, Inserm, CNRS, APHP, Hôpital de la Pitié 
Salpêtrière, Sorbonne Université, 75013 Paris, France.
(2)Medical School of Ribeirão Preto, Department of Physiology, University of Sao 
Paulo, Ribeirão Preto 14040-904, Brazil.
(3)IMMCA, CONICET-UNT-SIPROSA, Tucumán 4000, Argentina.
(4)BioCIS, CNRS, Université Paris-Saclay, 91400 Orsay, France.
(5)Inserm, Membranes et Cibles Thérapeutiques, Service de Santé des Armées, Aix 
Marseille Université, 13385 Marseille, France.
(6)Department of Neurology, CIC1424, University Hospital of Guadeloupe, Antilles 
University, French West Indies, 97159 Pointe-à-Pitre, France.
(7)Dentistry School, Basic and Oral Biology, University of Sao Paulo, Ribeirão 
Preto 14040-904, Brazil.

We aimed to simulate tau abnormalities-specifically hyperphosphorylation and 
aggregation-that are hallmarks of tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease, to 
evaluate tau-targeting therapies. To model pathological p-tau accumulation at 
early disease stages, we exposed mouse cortical cultures to redox-active iron 
from hemin (Hm), a breakdown product of hemoglobin, or challenged them with the 
excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate. Using the AT8 phospho-specific antibody, 
we demonstrate that a subtoxic concentration of Hm (3 µM) promotes pathological 
p-tau accumulation in a subpopulation of cultured cortical neurons and their 
proximal neurites. Uric acid (UA; 0.1-200 µM), the metabolic end-product of 
purines in humans, prevented p-tau build-up. Neither xanthine, the immediate 
precursor of UA, nor allantoin, its oxidized product, reproduced this effect. 
Live cell imaging studies revealed that UA operates by repressing iron-driven 
lipid peroxidation. DOT (3 µM), a brain-permeant tetracycline (TC) without 
antibiotic activity, mimicked UA's anti-tau and antioxidant effects. 
Interestingly, both UA and DOT remained effective in preventing p-tau 
accumulation induced by glutamate (10 µM). To simulate tau aggregation at more 
advanced disease stages, we conducted a Thioflavin-T aggregation assay. Our 
findings revealed that UA and DOT prevented tau aggregation seeded by heparin. 
However, only DOT remained effective when heparin-assembled tau fibrils were 
used as the seeding material. In summary, our results indicate that UA-elevating 
agents may hold therapeutic utility for tauopathies. The non-purine compound DOT 
could serve as an effective alternative to UA-related therapies.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15070941
PMCID: PMC12292136
PMID: 40723813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: P.P.M., R.R.-V., E.D.-B., L.F. and B.F. have 
filed patent applications for the use of non-antibiotic tetracycline derivatives 
for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease and related neurodegenerative 
disorders.


76. Biomolecules. 2025 Jun 20;15(7):910. doi: 10.3390/biom15070910.

The Role of Astrocytes in Synaptic Dysfunction and Memory Deficits in 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Muñoz de León-López CA(1)(2), Navarro-Lobato I(1)(2), Khan ZU(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, CIMES, University of Malaga, Campus Teatinos s/n, 
29010 Malaga, Spain.
(2)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaga, Campus 
Teatinos s/n, 29010 Malaga, Spain.
(3)CIBERNED, Institute of Health Carlos III, 28029 Madrid, Spain.

Astrocytes are the most abundant glial cells in the brain. They play critical 
roles in synapse formation and function, neurotransmitter release and uptake, 
the production of trophic factors, and energy supply for neuronal survival. In 
addition to producing proteases for amyloid-β degradation, astrocytes express 
various receptors, transporters, gliotransmitters, and other molecules that 
enable them to sense and respond to external signals. They are also implicated 
in amyloid-β clearance. In Alzheimer's disease, excessive accumulation of 
amyloid-β induces the polarization of astrocytes into the A1 phenotype, 
promoting the release of inflammatory cytokines and mitochondrial reactive 
oxygen species, leading to alterations in astrocytic functions. Under such 
conditions, gliotransmitter release, glutamate neurotransmission, AMPA receptor 
trafficking, and both Hebbian and non-Hebbian forms of synaptic 
plasticity-biological activities essential for synaptic functions-are 
compromised. Moreover, astrocytes are essential for learning, memory, and 
synaptic plasticity, and alterations in their function are associated with 
memory deficits in Alzheimer's disease. This review provides an overview of the 
current understanding of the defects in astrocytes that lead to altered synaptic 
functions, neuronal structural plasticity, and memory deficits in Alzheimer's 
disease.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15070910
PMCID: PMC12292185
PMID: 40723783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


77. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Jul 8;14(7):834. doi: 10.3390/antiox14070834.

Distinctive Effects of Fullerene C(60) and Fullerenol C(60)(OH)(24) 
Nanoparticles on Histological, Molecular and Behavioral Hallmarks of Alzheimer's 
Disease in APPswe/PS1E9 Mice.

Askarova S(1), Sitdikova K(1)(2), Kassenova A(1)(3), Chaprov K(4), Svirin 
E(2)(5), Tsoy A(1), de Munter J(5), Gorlova A(2)(6), Litavrin A(7), Deikin A(8), 
Nedorubov A(7), Appazov N(9), Kalueff A(10), Chernopiatko A(2), Strekalova 
T(2)(6)(7)(9).

Author information:
(1)Center for Life Sciences, National Laboratory Astana, Nazarbayev University, 
Astana 010000, Kazakhstan.
(2)Institute of General Pathology and Pathophysiology, Moscow 125315, Russia.
(3)Department of General Biology and Genomics, Faculty of Natural Sciences, L.N. 
Gumilyov Eurasian National University, Astana 010000, Kazakhstan.
(4)Institute of Physiologically Active Compounds at Federal Research Center of 
Problems of Chemical Physics and Medicinal Chemistry, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Chernogolovka 119071, Russia.
(5)Neuroplast BV, 6222 NK Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(6)Research and Education Resource Center, Peoples Friendship University of 
Russia, Moscow 117198, Russia.
(7)Department of Normal Physiology, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical 
University, Moscow 119991, Russia.
(8)Laboratory of Genetic Technology and Gene Editing for Biomedicine and 
Veterinary, National Research, Belgorod State University, Belgorod 308015, 
Russia.
(9)Laboratory of Engineering Profile Physical and Chemical Methods of Analysis, 
Korkyt Ata Kyzylorda University, Kyzylorda 120014, Kazakhstan.
(10)Department of Biosciences and Bioinformatics, Suzhou Municipal Key 
Laboratory of Neurobiology and Cell Signaling, School of Science, Xi'an 
Jiaotong-Liverpool University, Suzhou 215123, China.

Fullerenes and fullerenols exhibit antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, 
making them promising candidates for Alzheimer's disease (AD) therapy. Unlike 
conventional anti-inflammatory drugs, these compounds have multitargeted 
effects, including their ability to inhibit amyloid fibril formation. However, 
few studies have explored their efficacy in high-validity AD models. Female 
APPswe/PS1E9 (APP/PS1) mice and their wild-type (WT) littermates were orally 
administered with fullerene C60 (0.1 mg/kg/day) or fullerenol C60(OH)24 (0.15 
mg/kg/day) for 10 months starting at 2 months of age. Behavioral assessments 
were performed at 12 months of age. Amyloid plaque density and size were 
analyzed in the brain regions using Congo red staining. The expression of genes 
related to inflammation and plasticity was examined, and an in vitro assay was 
used to test the toxicity of fullerenol and its effect on amyloid β peptide 42 
(Aβ42)-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Fullerenol reduced the 
maximum plaque size in the cortex and hippocampus, decreased the small plaque 
density in the hippocampus and thalamus, and prevented an increase in glial 
fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive cell density in the mutants. Both 
treatments improved cognitive and emotional behaviors and reduced Il1β and 
increased Sirt1 expression. In vitro, fullerenol was non-toxic across a range of 
concentrations and reduced Aβ42-induced ROS production in brain endothelial 
cells and astrocytes. Long-term administration of fullerene or fullerenol 
improved behavioral and molecular markers of AD in APP/PS1 mice, with fullerenol 
showing additional benefits in reducing amyloid burden.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14070834
PMCID: PMC12292005
PMID: 40722938

Conflict of interest statement: Johannes de Munter and Evgeniy Svirin were 
employed by the company Neuroplast BV. The remaining authors declare that the 
research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


78. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Jul 2;14(7):818. doi: 10.3390/antiox14070818.

Glucosinolate Metabolites and Brain Health: An Updated Review on Their Potential 
Benefits in Neurodegenerative, Neurodevelopmental, and Psychiatric Disorders.

Muscarà C(1), Gugliandolo A(1), Mazzon E(2), Calì G(1).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Centro Neurolesi "Bonino-Pulejo", Via Provinciale Palermo, Contrada 
Casazza, 98124 Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical, Oral and Biotechnological Sciences, University "G. 
D'Annunzio" Chieti-Pescara, 66100 Chieti, Italy.

Neurodegenerative, neurodevelopmental, and psychiatric disorders, as well as 
epilepsy, affect millions of people. Due to their impact on patients' quality of 
life, they represent a major health issue. Natural compounds are arising as new 
treatments for these diseases. Particularly, glucosinolates (GLS) are secondary 
metabolites found in Cruciferae family plants. Their basic structure consists of 
a glucose unit linked to a thiohydroximate-O-sulfonate group and an aliphatic, 
aralkyl, or indolyl side chain, depending on their precursor amino acid. 
Specifically, aliphatic GLS derive from methionine, aromatic ones from 
phenylalanine, and indolic ones from tryptophan. Myrosinase (thioglucoside 
glucohydrolase) is the crucial enzyme for GLS degradation, leading to the 
production of isothiocyanates (ITCs). ITCs attracted considerable scientific 
interest for their protective effects against various diseases, thanks to their 
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective properties. Here, we 
collected the latest evidence regarding ITC effects in neurodegenerative, 
neurodevelopmental, and psychiatric disorders, including preclinical and 
clinical studies published in the last decade. These studies evidenced ITCs' 
neuroprotective effects, exerted mainly through antioxidant and 
anti-inflammatory mechanisms. Thus, ITCs' integration, also through the diet, 
may represent a safe and efficacious strategy to improve health and limit the 
risk of neurological and psychiatric disorders. However, new large-scale trials 
are needed to determine their therapeutic potential, particularly for diseases 
with no clinical evidence.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14070818
PMCID: PMC12291864
PMID: 40722922

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


79. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Jun 25;14(7):781. doi: 10.3390/antiox14070781.

CRISPR/Cas9 and iPSC-Based Therapeutic Approaches in Alzheimer's Disease.

Raffaele I(1), Cipriano GL(1), Anchesi I(1), Oddo S(2), Silvestro S(1).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Centro Neurolesi "Bonino-Pulejo", Via Provinciale Palermo, Contrada 
Casazza, 98124 Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Chemical, Biological, Pharmaceutical and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Messina, Viale F. Stagno d'Alcontres 31, 98166 Messina, 
Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the leading cause of dementia, remains poorly 
understood despite decades of intensive research, which continues to hinder the 
development of effective treatments. As a complex multifactorial disorder, AD 
lacks a cure to halt the progressive neurodegeneration, and the precise 
mechanisms underlying its onset and progression remain elusive, limiting 
therapeutic options. Due to the challenges of studying neuronal cells in vivo, 
technologies such as clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic 
repeats/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CRISPR/Cas9) and human-induced pluripotent 
stem cells (hiPSCs) are key for identifying therapeutic targets, although they 
face technical and ethical hurdles in their early stages. CRISPR/Cas9 and hiPSCs 
are promising for disease modeling and therapy, but off-target effects and the 
complexity of gene editing in the brain limit their use. CRISPR technology 
enables specific genetic modifications in key AD-related genes, such as APP, 
PSEN1, PSEN2, and APOE, providing valuable insights into disease mechanisms. 
iPSC-derived neurons, astrocytes, microglia, and 3D organoids can recapitulate 
key aspects of human AD pathology, but they do not fully replicate the 
complexity of the human brain, limiting clinical applicability. These 
technologies advance studies of amyloid processing, tau aggregation, 
neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress, yet translating them into clinical 
therapies remains challenging. Despite the promise of CRISPR/Cas9 and iPSCs for 
precision medicine, gaps in knowledge about their long-term safety and efficacy 
must be addressed before clinical implementation.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14070781
PMCID: PMC12291668
PMID: 40722885

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


80. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Jun 24;14(7):774. doi: 10.3390/antiox14070774.

Interplay Between Aging and Tau Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease: Mechanisms and 
Translational Perspectives.

Alrouji M(1), Alshammari MS(2), Tasqeeruddin S(3), Shamsi A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratories, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
Shaqra University, Shaqra 11961, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Shaqra University, Shaqra 11961, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, King Khalid 
University, Abha 62521, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Centre of Medical and Bio-Allied Health Sciences Research, Ajman University, 
Ajman P.O. Box 346, United Arab Emirates.

Aging is a key risk factor for neurodegenerative disorders and is associated 
with widespread systemic and brain-specific changes. Alzheimer's disease (AD), a 
progressive and irreversible brain disorder, primarily affects older adults and 
leads to a gradual decline in cognitive function. The underlying disease 
mechanisms often begin years before clinical symptoms appear, limiting the 
effectiveness of current treatments. Several factors linked to aging-including 
inflammation, oxidative stress, impaired metabolism, and protein 
aggregation-contribute to the onset and progression of AD. A central feature of 
AD is the abnormal accumulation of amyloid beta (Aβ) and tau, a 
microtubule-associated protein, driven by post-translational modifications such 
as acetylation and hyperphosphorylation. These modifications lead to structural 
changes in tau, promoting the formation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), which 
are more closely associated with cognitive decline than Aβ plaques. 
Interestingly, tau accumulation and the resulting cognitive impairments are 
often observed in aged individuals without Aβ deposition, highlighting tauopathy 
as a distinct contributor to age-related cognitive decline. This review focuses 
on new developments in therapeutic approaches that target oxidative stress, 
protein aggregation, and neuroinflammation, and our current understanding of the 
molecular pathways relating aging and tau pathology in AD.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14070774
PMCID: PMC12291953
PMID: 40722878

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


81. Biomedicines. 2025 Jul 12;13(7):1704. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13071704.

Prospective Neuropsychological and Plasma Biomarker Changes in Treatment-Naïve 
People Living with HIV After Antiretroviral Treatment Initiation.

Moschopoulos CD(1), Stanitsa E(2), Protopapas K(1), Vatsi A(3), Galani I(1), 
Zetterberg H(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Beratis I(2)(11), Fragkou PC(12), Tsiodras 
S(1), Kavatha D(1), Papadopoulos A(1), Papageorgiou SG(2), Antoniadou A(1).

Author information:
(1)Fourth Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Attikon 
University Hospital, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 12462 
Athens, Greece.
(2)First Department of Neurology, Aiginition University Hospital, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, 11528 Athens, Greece.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Evangelismos Hospital, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, 10676 Athens, Greece.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, 405 30 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 431 80 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(6)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, 
University College London, London WC1N 3BG, UK.
(7)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, University College London, London WC1N 
3AR, UK.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 
53726, USA.
(10)Centre for Brain Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore 560012, 
India.
(11)Psychology Department, American College of Greece, Deree, 6 Gravias Street, 
15342 Athens, Greece.
(12)Internal Medicine Department, Aegli Medical Clinic, 19003 Markopoulo, 
Greece.

Introduction: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated neurocognitive 
impairment (NCI) remains a concern despite combination antiretroviral therapy 
(cART), with cognitive problems often persisting even after viral suppression. 
The mechanisms underlying neurocognitive deterioration in people living with HIV 
(PLWH) and the role of plasma biomarkers remain unclear. This study aims to 
evaluate neurocognitive trajectories and biomarker changes in a real-world 
cohort of newly diagnosed PLWH initiating cART in Greece. Methods: This 
prospective, single-center study assessed neuropsychological performance and 
plasma biomarkers in treatment-naïve PLWH at baseline and 18 months after cART 
initiation. HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) was classified using 
the Frascati criteria, and plasma biomarkers of inflammation and monocyte 
activation were measured. Correlations between biomarkers and cognitive 
performance were analyzed. Results: A total of 39 treatment-naïve PLWH were 
enrolled in this study. At baseline, 45.7% of participants met criteria for 
HAND, predominantly, asymptomatic neurocognitive impairment (ANI). Over 18 
months, neurocognitive function improved, particularly in speed of information 
processing, executive function, and visuospatial ability, while verbal fluency, 
fine motor dexterity, and attention/working memory remained unchanged. 
Biomarkers of inflammation and monocyte activation decreased following cART, 
except for neopterin, which increased (10.6 vs. 13 ng/mL, p = 0.002), and plasma 
NFL (7.5 vs. 7.2 pg/mL, p = 0.54), which remained stable. A negative correlation 
between monocyte activation markers and cognitive performance was observed only 
at follow-up, suggesting that systemic inflammation may mask these associations 
in untreated PLWH. Conclusions: Early cART initiation supports neurocognitive 
recovery and reduces immune activation in PLWH. The observed correlation between 
cognitive performance and monocyte activation markers after viral suppression 
highlights the potential utility of plasma biomarkers in predicting cognitive 
impairment.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13071704
PMCID: PMC12292645
PMID: 40722775

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, 
Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, ScandiBio Therapeutics AB, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures sponsored by 
Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, LabCorp, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, Oy Medix Biochemica AB, Roche, and WebMD, is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program, and is a shareholder of MicThera (outside submitted work).


82. Biomedicines. 2025 Jun 25;13(7):1553. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13071553.

Urolithin A in Central Nervous System Disorders: Therapeutic Applications and 
Challenges.

Zhang Q(1), Zhang W(1), Yuan X(1), Peng X(1), Hu G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.

With the global trend of population aging becoming increasingly pronounced, the 
incidence of central nervous system (CNS) disorders continues to rise, posing a 
significant challenge to public health systems worldwide. Currently, many CNS 
disorders lack effective treatments, prompting researchers to investigate the 
therapeutic potential of natural compounds. Urolithin A (UA), a gut 
microbiota-derived metabolite of ellagitannins and ellagic acid, can cross the 
blood-brain barrier and exhibits a favorable safety profile. This review 
summarizes the biosynthesis, pharmacokinetic profile, and key biological effects 
of UA, including its promotion of mitophagy and mitochondrial homeostasis, as 
well as its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-senescence, and anti-apoptotic 
properties. We comprehensively summarize the preclinical evidence demonstrating 
UA's therapeutic potential in CNS disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, and stroke. Recent clinical trials involving UA are 
presented, followed by a thorough analysis of the challenges associated with 
translating UA-based interventions into clinical practice for CNS disorders. 
This work aims to support the development of UA-based therapies to improve 
patient outcomes and address the growing global burden of CNS disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13071553
PMCID: PMC12292995
PMID: 40722629

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest to declare.


83. Brain Sci. 2025 Jul 16;15(7):754. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15070754.

Neuromodulation Interventions for Language Deficits in Alzheimer's Disease: 
Update on Current Practice and Future Developments.

Chen F(1), Nie Y(1), Kuang C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Foreign Languages, Hunan University, Lushannan Road No. 2, Yuelu 
District, Changsha 410082, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a leading cause of dementia, characterized by 
progressive cognitive and language impairments that significantly impact 
communication and quality of life. Neuromodulation techniques, including 
repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), transcranial direct current 
stimulation (tDCS), and deep brain stimulation (DBS), have emerged as promising 
interventions. This study employs bibliometric analysis to evaluate global 
research trends in neuromodulation treatments for AD-related language 
impairments. A total of 88 publications from the Web of Science Core Collection 
(2006-2024) were analyzed using bibliometric methods. Key indicators such as 
publication trends, citation patterns, collaboration networks, and research 
themes were examined to map the intellectual landscape of this field. The 
analysis identified 580 authors across 65 journals, with an average of 34.82 
citations per article. Nearly half of the publications were produced after 2021, 
indicating rapid recent growth. The findings highlight a predominant focus on 
non-invasive neuromodulation methods, particularly rTMS and tDCS, within 
neurosciences and neurology. While research activity is increasing, significant 
challenges persist, including ethical concerns, operational constraints, and the 
translational gap between research and clinical applications. This study 
provides insights into the current research landscape and future directions for 
neuromodulation in AD-related language impairments. The results emphasize the 
need for novel neuromodulation techniques and interdisciplinary collaboration to 
enhance therapeutic efficacy and clinical integration.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15070754
PMCID: PMC12293641
PMID: 40722344

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests that could have appeared to influence the work 
reported in this paper.


84. Brain Sci. 2025 Jun 29;15(7):701. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15070701.

Transcranial Magneto-Acoustic Stimulation Enhances Cognitive and Working Memory 
in AD Rats by Regulating Theta-Gamma Oscillation Coupling and Synergistic 
Activity in the Hippocampal CA3 Region.

Mi J(1)(2)(3)(4), Zhang S(1)(2)(3)(4), Lu X(1)(2)(3)(4), Xu Y(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Reliability and Intelligence of Electrical Equipment, 
Hebei University of Technology, Tianjin 300130, China.
(2)Hebei Key Laboratory of Bioelectromagnetics and Neuroengineering, School of 
Health Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, Hebei University of Technology, 
Tianjin 300130, China.
(3)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Bioelectromagnetic Technology and Intelligent 
Health, School of Health Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, Hebei University 
of Technology, Tianjin 300130, China.
(4)School of Health Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, Hebei University of 
Technology, Tianjin 300130, China.

Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by cognitive dysfunction and working memory impairment, with early 
hippocampal damage being a prominent feature. Transcranial magneto-acoustic 
stimulation (TMAS) has been shown to target specific brain regions for 
neuroregulation. Methods: This study investigated the effects of TMAS on 
cognitive function, working memory, and hippocampal CA3 neural rhythms in AD 
rats by specifically stimulating the hippocampal region. Results: The novel 
object recognition test and T-maze test were employed to assess behavioral 
performance, while time-frequency analyses were conducted to evaluate 
memory-related activity, neural synchronization, and cross-frequency 
phase-amplitude coupling. TMAS significantly improved cognitive and working 
memory deficits in AD rats, enhancing long-term memory performance. 
Additionally, the abnormal energy levels observed in the θ and γ rhythm power 
spectra of the CA3 region were markedly restored, suggesting the recovery of 
normal neural function. This improvement was accompanied by a partial resurgence 
of neural activity, indicating enhanced inter-neuronal communication. 
Furthermore, the previously damaged coupling between the θ-fast γ and θ-slow γ 
rhythms was successfully improved, resulting in a notable enhancement of 
synchronized activity. Conclusions: These findings suggest that TMAS effectively 
alleviates cognitive and working memory impairments in AD rats and may provide 
experimental support for developing new treatments for AD.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15070701
PMCID: PMC12293288
PMID: 40722293

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


85. Nurse Pract. 2025 Aug 1;50(8):10-24. doi: 10.1097/01.NPR.0000000000000344.
Epub  2025 Jul 29.

The Drug Update: Recent drug approvals, summer 2025 edition.

Marino AB, Drake ES, Theroux JD, Osteen R, Sarpong R, Hughes A, Plummer J.

In the final half of 2024, the US FDA approved several new drugs that have 
relevance for those practicing in primary care. This article highlights the 
following new medications: donanemab-azbt (Kisunla), nalmefene injection 
(Zurnai), epinephrine nasal spray (neffy), palopegteriparatide (Yorvipath), 
xanomeline and trospium chloride (Cobenfy), and sulopenem etzadroxil/probenecid 
(Orlynvah). Additionally, this article highlights the recent approval of 
obstructive sleep apnea as a new indication for tirzepatide (Zepbound) and 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as a new indication for dupilumab 
(Dupixent).

Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NPR.0000000000000344
PMID: 40722217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Langmuir. 2025 Aug 12;41(31):20623-20630. doi: 10.1021/acs.langmuir.5c02043. 
Epub 2025 Jul 28.

Design of Zwitterionic Conjugated Polymers as Protein Aggregation Inhibitors.

Rajan R(1), Singh M(1), Suzuki K(1), Matsumura K(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science, Japan Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology, 1-1 Asahidai, Nomi, Ishikawa 923-1292, Japan.

Protein aggregation and misfolding is the root cause of several 
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, and can be mitigated 
using small molecules, peptides, and conjugated or zwitterionic polymers. 
However, polymers that are both conjugated and zwitterionic have not been 
evaluated as protein aggregation/misfolding inhibitors. Herein, to bridge this 
gap, we prepare polymers with a conjugated backbone bearing zwitterionic 
sulfobetaine moieties and poly(ethylene glycol) chains and examine their 
abilities to inhibit protein aggregation. These polymers not only strongly 
inhibit the aggregation of amyloid β peptide (Aβ42) and other proteins but also 
actively disrupt and solubilize pre-established amyloid fibrils. This dual 
functionality enables almost complete fibril disaggregation at concentrations 
lower than those required for existing alternatives and results in protective 
capability extension across a broad spectrum of proteins. The results open new 
avenues for advancing neurodegenerative disease treatment strategies and 
represent considerable progress in the development of biomedical materials.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.langmuir.5c02043
PMID: 40722053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2025 Jul 28;16(1):409. doi: 10.1186/s13287-025-04555-4.

Intranasal administration of stem cell derivatives for the treatment of AD 
animal models: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Hua Z(#)(1)(2)(3), Zhou N(#)(4)(3), Zhou Z(1)(2)(3), Fu Z(1)(2)(3), Guo 
R(1)(2)(3)(5), Akogo HY(1)(2)(3)(6), Yang J(1)(2)(3), Yu M(1)(2)(3), Jiang 
Y(1)(2)(3), Lan S(1)(2)(3), Chang H(7)(8), Ma J(9)(10)(11)(12)(13), Cui 
H(1)(2)(3)(5)(14).

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Research Center, Hebei Medical University-Galway University, Hebei 
Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, 050017, China.
(2)Hebei Research Center for Stem Cell Medical Translational Engineering, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, 050017, China.
(3)Hebei Technology Innovation Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, 050017, China.
(4)The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei 
Province, 050017, China.
(5)Human Anatomy Department, Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei 
Province, 050017, China.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Health and Allied Sciences, 
University of Cape Coast, PMB UCC, Cape Coast, Ghana.
(7)Department of Child Health, Hebei Children's Hospital, Hebei International 
Joint Research Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Shijiazhuang, 
Hebei Province, 050017, China. haixiachanghmu@hebmu.edu.cn.
(8)Hebei International Joint Research Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative 
Medicine, Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, 050017, China. 
haixiachanghmu@hebmu.edu.cn.
(9)Stem Cell Research Center, Hebei Medical University-Galway University, Hebei 
Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, 050017, China. 
junmahmu@hebmu.edu.cn.
(10)Hebei Research Center for Stem Cell Medical Translational Engineering, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, 050017, China. junmahmu@hebmu.edu.cn.
(11)Hebei Technology Innovation Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, 050017, China. junmahmu@hebmu.edu.cn.
(12)Human Anatomy Department, Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei 
Province, 050017, China. junmahmu@hebmu.edu.cn.
(13)Hebei International Joint Research Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative 
Medicine, Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, 050017, China. junmahmu@hebmu.edu.cn.
(14)Hebei International Joint Research Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative 
Medicine, Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, 050017, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with 
increasing prevalence and limited efficacy of current therapies. Stem 
cell-derived therapies have attracted attention for their potential 
neurodegenerative and reparative effects. Intranasal administration provides a 
non-invasive route that bypasses the blood-brain barrier and delivers stem cell 
derivatives directly to the brain. Although studies have shown that the 
intranasal administration of stem cell derivatives alleviates symptoms in animal 
models of AD, a comprehensive meta-analysis evaluating their therapeutic 
efficacy is yet to be conducted. This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of 
intranasal stem cell derivatives therapies in AD animal models and provide a 
foundation for clinical translation.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic literature search across four databases 
(Pubmed, Embase, Web of Science and Cochrane Library) using subject terms and 
complementary keywords. After applying inclusion and exclusion criteria, data 
were extracted using Origin 2024 software and analysed using Review Mange 5.4. 
The SYRCLE tool was applied to assess study quality and evaluate the potential 
risk of bias systematically.
RESULTS: This meta-analysis of 14 studies investigated the efficacy of 
intranasal stem cell-derived therapies in animal models of Alzheimer’s disease 
(AD). Using predominantly mouse and rat models from diverse geographical 
locations and employing various stem cell types (bone marrow, umbilical cord 
blood, adipose tissue, hiPSCs), the analysis revealed a significant reduction in 
amyloid-beta (Aβ) deposition (SMD = -2.69, p < 0.0001). Subgroup analyses 
indicated that stem cell source, stem cell derivative types and Aβ detection 
method were not primary drivers of heterogeneity. Furthermore, treatment 
significantly reduced inflammatory markers IL-1β (SMD = -0.92, p = 0.008) and 
IBA-1 (SMD = -1.68, p = 0.006), suggesting an anti-inflammatory effect. 
Auxiliary outcomes CD68 and GFAP also exhibited decreased expression levels. 
Improved cognitive function was evident, as measured by increased target 
quadrant dwell time (MD = 10.17, p < 0.00001) and decreased escape latency (MD = 
-15.74, p = 0.003) in behavioral experiments, and enhanced recognition in the 
Novel Object Recognition Test (NORT) (SMD = 1.10, p = 0.006). Nissl staining 
demonstrated a significant reduction in neuronal cell death 
(SMD=-3.33,p < 0.00001),suggesting a role in neuronal repair.Together, these 
findings support the potential of intranasal stem cell-derived therapies to 
improve Alzheimer’s disease pathology, neuronal repair, and cognition in animal 
models.
CONCLUSION: Intranasal administration of stem cell derivatives has demonstrated 
efficacy in Alzheimer’s disease (AD) animal models, leading to reductions in 
amyloid-beta (Aβ) deposition, cognitive improvement, repair neurons and 
attenuation of inflammatory responses. However, limitations such as potential 
publication bias and heterogeneity among existing studies are noted. Due to 
insufficient data and study limitations, additional preclinical and clinical 
trials are required to confirm these results and explore the therapy’s long-term 
safety and efficacy.
GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT: [Image: see text]

DOI: 10.1186/s13287-025-04555-4
PMCID: PMC12306092
PMID: 40722027

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: This study did 
not require ethics approval. Consent to participate: Not applicable. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Artificial intelligence: The authors declare that 
they have not use AI-generated work in this manuscript. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


88. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2025 Jul 29;13(1):165. doi:
10.1186/s40478-025-02023-x.

Mitochondrial dysfunction mediated by ER-calcium dysregulation in neurons 
derived from Alzheimer's disease patients.

Mustaly-Kalimi S(1)(2), Gallegos W(1)(2), Steinbrenner D(1), Gupta S(1), Houcek 
AJ(1), Bennett DA(3), Marr RA(1)(4)(2), Peterson DA(1)(4)(2), Sekler I(5), 
Stutzmann GE(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative Disease and Therapeutics, The Chicago Medical 
School, Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL, 
60064, USA.
(2)School of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies, Rosalind Franklin University of 
Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL, 60064, USA.
(3)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(4)Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Rosalind Franklin University 
of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL, 60064, USA.
(5)Department of Physiology and Cell Biology, Faculty of Health Science and 
Zlotowski Center for Neuroscience, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer 
Sheva, Israel.
(6)Center for Neurodegenerative Disease and Therapeutics, The Chicago Medical 
School, Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL, 
60064, USA. grace.stutzmann@rosalindfranklin.edu.
(7)Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Rosalind Franklin University 
of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL, 60064, USA. 
grace.stutzmann@rosalindfranklin.edu.
(8)School of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies, Rosalind Franklin University of 
Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL, 60064, USA. 
grace.stutzmann@rosalindfranklin.edu.

Tight regulation of mitochondrial Ca2+ is essential for neuronal bioenergetics 
and cellular metabolism. Ca2+ transfer from ER-localized ryanodine receptors 
(RyR) and inositol triphosphate receptors (IP3R) to the mitochondria maintains a 
steady Ca2+ source that fuels oxidative phosphorylation and ATP production. In 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), RyR-evoked Ca2+ release is markedly increased, 
contributing to synaptic deficits, protein mishandling, and memory impairment. 
Here, we demonstrate dysregulated RyR-Ca2+ release in neurons from familial and 
sporadic AD patients, and this directly compromises mitochondrial activity and 
contributes to AD cellular pathology. We measured an array of mitochondrial 
functions using fluorescent biosensors and optical imaging in RyR2-expressing 
HEK cells and neurons derived from AD and nonAD individuals. In neurons from AD 
patients, resting mitochondrial Ca2+ levels were elevated alongside increased 
free radical production and higher caspase-3 activity relative to nonAD neurons. 
RyR-evoked Ca2+ release further potentiated pathogenic mitochondrial responses 
in AD neurons, with increased Ca2+ uptake and exaggerated mitochondrial membrane 
depolarization. Additionally, clearance of damaged mitochondria was impaired in 
AD neurons, demonstrating consequences from dysfunctional lysosomes. Notably, 
impairments to mitochondria in AD neurons were largely prevented with the RyR 
negative allosteric modulator, Ryanodex. These findings highlight how excess 
RyR-Ca2+ release broadly contributes to early cellular pathology in AD which 
includes a cascade of ER, lysosomal, and mitochondrial deficits culminating in 
neuronal decline and degeneration. Additionally, pharmacological suppression of 
RyR-Ca2+ release preserves mitochondrial, ER and lysosomal function, thus 
providing a novel and effective therapeutic strategy.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-025-02023-x
PMCID: PMC12305934
PMID: 40721842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


89. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Aug;33(8):4311-4321. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01869-w.  Epub 2025 Jul 28.

Asperuloside as a promising multi-target agent for Alzheimer's disease: 
molecular mechanisms and therapeutic perspectives.

Vashisht K(1), Kumar H(1), Ankalgi A(2), Ashawat MS(2), Rimpi(3), Kushawaha 
SK(4), Baldi A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Laureate Institute of Pharmacy, Kathog, Kangra, 
Himachal Pradesh, 176031, India.
(2)Laureate Institute of Pharmacy, Kathog, Kangra, Himachal Pradesh, India.
(3)Department of Clinical Haemato-Oncology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, 
Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, Punjab, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Laureate Institute of Pharmacy, Kathog, Kangra, 
Himachal Pradesh, 176031, India. shiv.kushawaha@gmail.com.
(5)Pharma Innovation Lab, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technology, 
Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, 151001, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder marked by 
memory loss, cognitive decline, and neuronal dysfunction. Despite advancements 
in understanding AD pathology, including β-amyloid plaques and tau 
neurofibrillary tangles, effective disease-modifying treatments remain limited. 
Natural compounds are being explored for their therapeutic potential in AD. 
Asperuloside, a bioactive iridoid glycoside, has demonstrated multi-target 
activity, particularly through modulation of NF-κB, Nrf2/ARE, and Wnt/β-catenin 
pathways, implicated in neuronal survival and synaptic plasticity. These 
mechanisms are relevant to AD pathology involving neuroinflammation, oxidative 
stress, and synaptic dysfunction, although most evidence derives from peripheral 
or in vitro models. Emerging studies using AD-specific in vivo (e.g., C. 
elegans) and cellular models (e.g., Aβ-expressing SH-SY5Y cells) provide 
disease-relevant insights into ASP neuroprotective potential. This review 
focuses on disease-specific insights into Asperuloside therapeutic actions in 
AD, highlighting the need for further validation using transgenic mouse models 
and iPSC-derived neurons.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01869-w
PMID: 40721702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interest: The authors 
declare no competing interest. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Clinical 
trial number: Not applicable. Ethical approval Not applicable.


90. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 28;15(1):27388. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-11632-4.

A new low-rank adaptation method for brain structure and metastasis segmentation 
via decoupled principal weight direction and magnitude.

Zhu H(1)(2), Yang H(1), Wang Y(2), Hu K(2), He G(3), Zhou J(4), Li Z(5); 
Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)School of Mathematics, Physics and Information, Shaoxing University, 900 
ChengNan Rd, Shaoxing, 312000, Zhejiang, China.
(2)The Affiliated Hospital of Shaoxing University, Shaoxing, 312000, Zhejiang, 
China.
(3)School of Mathematics, Physics and Information, Shaoxing University, 900 
ChengNan Rd, Shaoxing, 312000, Zhejiang, China. hegh23@sina.com.
(4)Cancer Center, Gamma Knife Treatment Center, Zhejiang Provincial People's 
Hospital, AffiliatedPeople's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 
310014, Zhejiang, China. cneagles@sina.com.
(5)School of Information Engineering, Huzhou University, Huzhou, 313000, 
Zhejiang, China.

Deep learning techniques have become pivotal in medical image segmentation, but 
their success often relies on large, manually annotated datasets, which are 
expensive and labor-intensive to obtain. Additionally, different segmentation 
tasks frequently require retraining models from scratch, resulting in 
substantial computational costs. To address these limitations, we propose PDoRA, 
an innovative parameter-efficient fine-tuning method that leverages knowledge 
transfer from a pre-trained SwinUNETR model for a wide range of brain image 
segmentation tasks. PDoRA minimizes the reliance on extensive data annotation 
and computational resources by decomposing model weights into principal and 
residual weights. The principal weights are further divided into magnitude and 
direction, enabling independent fine-tuning to enhance the model's ability to 
capture task-specific features. The residual weights remain fixed and are later 
fused with the updated principal weights, ensuring model stability while 
enhancing performance. We evaluated PDoRA on three diverse medical image 
datasets for brain structure and metastasis segmentation. The results 
demonstrate that PDoRA consistently outperforms existing parameter-efficient 
fine-tuning methods, achieving superior segmentation accuracy and efficiency. 
Our code is available at https://github.com/Perfect199001/PDoRA/tree/main .

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-11632-4
PMCID: PMC12304152
PMID: 40721601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval and consent to participate: The 
utilization of the Bra-MET dataset adheres to HIPAA regulations and has received 
approval from the Ethics Committee of Zhejiang Provincial People’s Hospital 
(Approval No. ZHRYRS 2023-066). All patients participating in this study 
provided informed consent prior to their involvement.


91. J Neurosci Methods. 2025 Nov;423:110544. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2025.110544.
 Epub 2025 Jul 26.

Effects of focused ultrasound stimulation on various in vitro neurological cell 
models.

Bano I(1), Jeevanandam J(2), Tsenov G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Physiology, Faculty of Science, Charles University, 
Albertov 6, Prague 128 00, Czech Republic; Division of Experimental 
Neurobiology, Preclinical Research Program, National Institute of Mental Health, 
Topolová 748, Klecany 250 67, Czech Republic; Department of Physiology and 
Biochemistry, Faculty of Bioscience, Shaheed Benazir Bhutto University of 
Veterinary & Animal Sciences, Sakrand 67210, Pakistan. Electronic address: 
iqrabano.chandio440@student.cuni.cz.
(2)Division of Experimental Neurobiology, Preclinical Research Program, National 
Institute of Mental Health, Topolová 748, Klecany 250 67, Czech Republic.

Focused ultrasound stimulation (FUS) is rapidly gaining attention as a 
non-invasive and highly precise neuromodulatory technique with broad therapeutic 
potential in neurological and psychiatric disorders. While most reviews to date 
have emphasized in vivo and clinical studies, the cellular mechanisms underlying 
FUS remain underexplored. This study presents an innovative and thorough 
synthesis of FUS effects in in vitro neurological cell models, including 
SH-SY5Y, PC12, BV2 microglia, NSC-34 motor neurons, and human iPSC-derived 
neurons and astrocytes. These models offer essential insights into the 
mechanisms by which FUS influences intracellular calcium dynamics, mitigates 
oxidative stress, modulates inflammatory responses, and stimulates autophagy, 
thus facilitating neuroprotection and synaptic resilience in various disease 
contexts, including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, 
epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, OCD, and traumatic brain injury. Mapping 
disease-specific results with comprehensive FUS sonication parameters, this 
evaluation only focuses on cell-based systems, which is a fundamental advance. 
Additionally, it emphasizes the incorporation of new technology into FUS, such 
as acoustically responsive biomaterials, microbubble-assisted gene transfection, 
and nanoparticle-mediated medication delivery. The study highlights the 
increasing importance of AI in directing real-time FUS targeting and optimizing 
parameters, which is leading to tailored neuromodulation treatments. This study 
establishes a solid groundwork for the advancement of FUS in preclinical 
research by connecting the dots between cellular bioeffects and translational 
potential. It highlights the critical need for multidisciplinary methods, 
standardization, and the use of 3D organoid systems for next-generation brain 
treatments that fully use FUS.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2025.110544
PMID: 40721156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


92. Signal Transduct Target Ther. 2025 Jul 28;10(1):240. doi: 
10.1038/s41392-025-02317-5.

Astrocytic gamma-aminobutyric acid dysregulation as a therapeutic target for 
posttraumatic stress disorder.

Yoon S(#)(1)(2), Won W(#)(3), Lee S(#)(4), Han K(5)(6), Ha E(1), Lee J(6)(7)(8), 
Hyeon SJ(9), Joo Y(1), Hong H(1), Lee H(1), Song Y(1), Park KD(9)(10), Huber 
BR(11)(12), Lee J(11)(12), Edden RAE(13), Suh M(6)(7)(8), Ryu H(9)(10), Lee 
CJ(14), Lyoo IK(15)(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Ewha Brain Institute, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, 
South Korea.
(3)Center for Cognition and Sociality, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), 
Daejeon, South Korea.
(4)Division of Psychology and Cognitive Science, Seoul Women's University, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Biomedical Institute for Convergence at SKKU (BICS), Sungkyunkwan University, 
Suwon, South Korea.
(6)Center for Neuroscience Imaging Research, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), 
Suwon, South Korea.
(7)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, South 
Korea.
(8)Department of Intelligent Precision Healthcare Convergence (IPHC), 
Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, South Korea.
(9)Center for Brain Disorders, Brain Science Institute, Korea Institute of 
Science and Technology (KIST), Seoul, South Korea.
(10)Division of Bio-Med Science & Technology, KIST School, Korea University of 
Science and Technology, Seoul, South Korea.
(11)VA Boston Healthcare System, U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(12)Boston University Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and Department of 
Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(13)The Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(14)Center for Cognition and Sociality, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), 
Daejeon, South Korea. cjl@ibs.re.kr.
(15)Ewha Brain Institute, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, South Korea. 
inkylyoo@ewha.ac.kr.
(16)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, 
South Korea. inkylyoo@ewha.ac.kr.
(17)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, 
South Korea. inkylyoo@ewha.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) remains a debilitating psychiatric 
condition with limited pharmacological treatment options. Identifying novel 
therapeutic targets is critical for addressing its unmet clinical needs. Through 
our comprehensive human clinical research, including both cross-sectional and 
longitudinal studies, we revealed a compelling link between dysregulated 
prefrontal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels and PTSD symptoms. Notably, 
elevated prefrontal GABA levels in PTSD patients are associated with impaired 
cerebral blood flow (CBF) and symptom severity, normalizing with recovery, 
highlighting GABA dysregulation as a key mechanism in the disorder. Postmortem 
and PTSD-like mouse models implicated monoamine oxidase B (MAOB)-dependent 
astrocytic GABA as a primary driver of this imbalance, exacerbating deficit in 
fear extinction retrieval. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of MAOB 
effectively restored astrocytic GABA and improved fear extinction retrieval in 
PTSD-like mouse models. Specifically, KDS2010, a recently developed highly 
selective and reversible MAOB inhibitor, not only restored astrocytic GABA 
homeostasis but also rescued CBF deficits and reduced tonic GABA and 
astrogliosis in the prefrontal cortex. Moreover, KDS2010 successfully advanced 
through Phase 1 clinical trials, showing a favorable safety profile and paving 
the way for Phase 2 trials to evaluate its therapeutic potential in PTSD. Our 
findings highlight the pivotal role of astrocytic GABA in PTSD pathophysiology 
and establish MAOB inhibition as a mechanistically targeted approach to 
alleviate symptoms. By bridging human and animal studies with translational 
clinical trials, this work positions KDS2010 as a promising first-in-class 
therapy, offering a novel paradigm for PTSD treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41392-025-02317-5
PMCID: PMC12301456
PMID: 40717119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interest.


93. Neuropharmacology. 2025 Nov 15;279:110600. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2025.110600. Epub 2025 Jul 25.

Ceftriaxone ameliorates tau phosphorylation and mislocalization in APP/PS1 AD 
mice by inhibiting endoplasmic reticulum stress.

Feng NN(1), Li L(2), Liu LZ(3), He RB(3), Xian XH(3), Liu LR(3), Hu YY(4), Li 
WB(5).

Author information:
(1)Hebei Key Laboratory of Critical Disease Mechanism and Intervention, 
Department of Pathophysiology, Neuroscience Research Center, Hebei Medical 
University, 361 Zhongshan East Road, Shijiazhuang, 050017, PR China; Department 
of Basic Medicine, Hebei North University, 11 Zuanshi South Road, Zhangjiakou, 
075000, PR China.
(2)Central Laboratory, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 215 
Heping West Road, Shijiazhuang, 050000, PR China.
(3)Hebei Key Laboratory of Critical Disease Mechanism and Intervention, 
Department of Pathophysiology, Neuroscience Research Center, Hebei Medical 
University, 361 Zhongshan East Road, Shijiazhuang, 050017, PR China.
(4)Hebei Key Laboratory of Critical Disease Mechanism and Intervention, 
Department of Pathophysiology, Neuroscience Research Center, Hebei Medical 
University, 361 Zhongshan East Road, Shijiazhuang, 050017, PR China. Electronic 
address: huyuyan@hebmu.edu.cn.
(5)Hebei Key Laboratory of Critical Disease Mechanism and Intervention, 
Department of Pathophysiology, Neuroscience Research Center, Hebei Medical 
University, 361 Zhongshan East Road, Shijiazhuang, 050017, PR China. Electronic 
address: liwbsjz@hebmu.edu.cn.

Tau phosphorylation and mislocalization are hallmark pathological features of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), with endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) contributing 
to tauopathy. We previously showed that ceftriaxone (Cef) improves cognition in 
APP/PS1 AD mice through regulating GLT-1-mediated glutamate homeostasis. Here, 
we examined Cef's neuroprotection against ERS-related tauopathy. C57BL/6J and 
APP/PS1 AD mice were used. Cognitive functions were assessed by new object 
recognition (NOR), new location recognition (NLR) and Morris water maze (MWM) 
tests. Hippocampal synaptosomes were isolated using the Syn-PER™ Synaptic 
Protein Extraction Kit. Western blot analysis evaluates the protein levels of 
ERS markers, total and phosphorylated tau (Ser396/Ser262/Thr181), and Gsk3β. 
Transmission electron microscopy examined the endoplasmic reticulum 
ultrastructural changes of the hippocampus. Confocal 3D-reconstructed imaging 
assessed the phosphorylated tau (Ser396) distribution on the dendrites in the 
hippocampal region. The results showed that Cef treatment effectively reduced 
protein levels of ERS markers and restored endoplasmic reticulum ultrastructural 
integrity of hippocampus. Simultaneously, Cef treatment significantly alleviated 
tau phosphorylation levels, decreased accumulation of total and phosphorylated 
tau in synaptosomes, reduced phosphorylated tau (Ser396) distribution in 
dendritic compartments and inhibited Gsk3β activity in the hippocampus of 
APP/PS1 AD mice. Tunicamycin, a promoter of ERS, exacerbated cognitive 
impairments, tau phosphorylation levels and mislocalization, and Gsk3β activity, 
and notably, this exacerbation was inhibited by Cef treatment. Simultaneously, 
the ERS activation significantly inhibited Cef's above benefits on APP/PS1 AD 
mice. In conclusion, Cef improves cognitive impairment by alleviating ERS, 
decreasing Gsk3β activity, and reducing tau phosphorylation and mislocalization 
in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 AD mice.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2025.110600
PMID: 40716511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We confirm 
that this manuscript has not been published previously and is not under 
consideration for publication elsewhere. The article's publication is approved 
by all authors. If accepted, the article will not be published elsewhere in the 
same form, in English or in any other language, including electronically, 
without the written consent of the copyright-holder. The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


94. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Jul;40(7):e70129. doi: 10.1002/gps.70129.

Time to Diagnosis in Dementia: A Systematic Review With Meta-Analysis.

Kusoro O(1), Roche M(1), Del-Pino-Casado R(2), Leung P(1), Orgeta V(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Brain Sciences, Division of Psychiatry, University College London, 
London, UK.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, Department of Nursing, University of Jaén, 
Andalusia, Spain.

Timely dementia diagnosis is a global priority, reflected in most national and 
regional policies and plans. Nevertheless, there are currently no robust 
estimates of the average time to diagnosis (TTD) and factors influencing 
diagnostic intervals. This article presents the first systematic review of 
quantitative studies on TTD in dementia and the factors associated with its 
duration. We systematically searched EMBASE, Psych INFO, MEDLINE, and CINAHL 
databases for relevant studies published up to December 2024. We defined TTD as 
the interval between symptom onset (rated by family carers or patients using 
interviews or medical records) to final diagnosis. Risk of bias was assessed 
using the Reporting studies on time to diagnosis tool. We included 13 studies 
reporting data on 30,257 participants, with age at onset ranging between 54 and 
93 years. Meta-analysis pooling 10 studies showed that average mean TTD across 
all types of dementia was 3.5 years [confidence interval (CI): 2.7-4.3; moderate 
quality evidence]. Analyses of six studies showed that TTD in young onset 
dementia was 4.1 years (CI: 3.4-4.9; moderate quality evidence). Although the 
factors influencing TTD were inconsistent, a younger age at onset and having 
frontotemporal dementia were consistently associated with a longer interval to 
diagnosis. TTD in dementia remains long, and specific healthcare strategies are 
urgently needed to improve it. Increasing the evidence base and developing 
interventions to reduce TTD should be a future research priority. Specialist 
services are likely to be key in improving TTD in young-onset dementia.

International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry© 2025 The Author(s). International 
Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.70129
PMCID: PMC12300619
PMID: 40716451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


95. Neurochem Int. 2025 Oct;189:106023. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2025.106023. Epub
2025  Jul 26.

Aerobic exercise rescues synaptic plasticity in early-stage Alzheimer's disease 
by suppressing miR-3473e to activate EphB2-dependent NMDA/AMPA receptor 
signaling.

Tong X(1), Tong Z(1), Wu W(1), Yang J(1), Wang J(1), Wang Y(1), Chen D(1), Wang 
Y(1), Zeng F(1), Du Q(1), Chen Y(2), Liu W(3).

Author information:
(1)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness and Sports 
Rehabilitation, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, 410012, China.
(2)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness and Sports 
Rehabilitation, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, 410012, China. Electronic 
address: Eason@hunnu.edu.cn.
(3)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness and Sports 
Rehabilitation, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, 410012, China; Key Laboratory 
of Protein Chemistry and Developmental Biology of Ministry of Education, Hunan 
Normal University, Changsha, 410081, China. Electronic address: 
wfliu@hunnu.edu.cn.

Cognitive dysfunction in early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves 
significant impairments in synaptic plasticity and dendritic spines integrity. 
Intriguingly, exercise interventions have demonstrated efficacy in enhancing 
cognitive function. However, the precise molecular mechanisms, particularly the 
upstream endogenous regulators (such as miRNAs) through which exercise mediates 
this synaptic improvement, remain unclear. Our findings indicated that 12 weeks 
of aerobic exercise effectively increased learning and memory, promoted amyloid 
beta (Aβ) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) clearance in early-stage AD. 
Furthermore, aerobic exercise markedly enhanced dendritic spines density of 
pyramidal neurons in cortical layers II/III and the hippocampal CA1 region, as 
well as the expression of synapse-associated proteins such as cAMP response 
element-binding protein (CREB), synaptophysin (SYN), and postsynaptic density 
protein 95 (PSD95). Whole genome RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and bioinformatics 
analysis was performed to identify miR-3473e, a target closely related to AD and 
also a response factor that serves as a key mediator of aerobic exercise 
benefits. Subsequent findings revealed that miR-3473e was overexpressed in the 
brains of APP/PS1 mice, whereas aerobic exercise led to a decrease in its 
expression. Moreover, aerobic exercise enhanced its downstream targets, EPH 
receptor B2 (EphB2) and solute carrier family 1 member 1 gene (Slc1a1) as well 
as increased downstream GluN1, GRIA1 and p-GluN2B/GluN2B protein expression 
levels. In summary, we demonstrate that aerobic exercise can improve synaptic 
plasticity, and these effects are mediated via suppression of miR-3473e and 
regulation EphB2-NMDA/AMPA receptor signaling pathway, underscoring the 
potential of aerobic exercise to enhance cognitive function in early-stage of 
AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2025.106023
PMID: 40716190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


96. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 26. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05198-5. Online ahead of 
print.

Mitochondrial-Derived Peptides: Implication in the Therapy of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases.

Thakur R(1), Chauhan A(2), Moudgil H(2), Singh S(3), Devi R(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bio-Sciences and Technology, Maharishi Markandeshwar 
Engineering College, Maharishi Markandeshwar (Deemed to be University), Mullana, 
Ambala, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Central Research Cell, Maharishi Markandeshwar 
Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Maharishi Markandeshwar (Deemed to 
Be University), Mullana, Ambala, 133207, India.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Adesh Medical College and Hospital, Shahabad, 
Ambala, Haryana, India. sukhpal619@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Central Research Cell, Maharishi Markandeshwar 
Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Maharishi Markandeshwar (Deemed to 
Be University), Mullana, Ambala, 133207, India. ranarooma@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Adesh Medical College and Hospital, Shahabad, 
Ambala, Haryana, India. ranarooma@gmail.com.

Mitochondrial-derived peptides (MDPs), including humanin, MOTS-c, and small 
humanin-like peptides (SHLPs), have emerged as promising therapeutic candidates 
for neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), and Huntington's disease (HD). This review systematically 
evaluates current literature retrieved from databases including PubMed, Scopus, 
and Web of Science using keywords such as "mitochondrial-derived peptides," 
"neurodegeneration," "humanin," "MOTS-c," and "SHLPs." Studies were included 
based on their relevance to mitochondrial function, oxidative stress, 
neuroprotection, and anti-inflammatory mechanisms in AD, PD, and HD models. 
Despite growing interest, current research remains limited in understanding the 
precise molecular pathways. Our review highlights their role in mitigating 
disease-specific pathologies such as Amyloid-beta (Aβ) toxicity in AD, 
dopaminergic neuron loss in PD, and mutant huntingtin aggregation in HD while 
also emphasizing their potential to attenuate oxidative stress and 
neuroinflammation. By identifying critical knowledge gaps, particularly in the 
areas of molecular mechanisms of MDPs in neuroprotection, targeted delivery, and 
clinical translation, this review provides a comprehensive framework to guide 
future investigations.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05198-5
PMID: 40715951

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. 
Informed Consent: Not applicable. Competing Interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


97. Mikrochim Acta. 2025 Jul 27;192(8):526. doi: 10.1007/s00604-025-07293-9.

Cellulose nanocrystals from waste cotton fabric and polyvinyl alcohol composite 
hydrogel for non-invasive colorimetric sensing of cysteine.

Suk-In N(1), Promphet N(2), Rodthongkum N(3)(4), Ummartyotin S(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Materials and Textile Technology, Faculty of Science and 
Technology, Thammasat University, Pathumtani, 12120, Thailand.
(2)Metallurgy and Materials Science Research Institute, Chulalongkorn 
University, Phayathai Road, Wangmai, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand.
(3)Center of Excellence in Responsive Wearable Materials, Metallurgy and 
Materials Science Research Institute, Chulalongkorn University, Soi Chula 12, 
Phayathai Road, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand. nadnudda.r@chula.ac.th.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, 
Phayathai Road, Wangmai, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand. 
nadnudda.r@chula.ac.th.
(5)Department of Materials and Textile Technology, Faculty of Science and 
Technology, Thammasat University, Pathumtani, 12120, Thailand. sarute@tu.ac.th.
(6)Center of Excellence on Petrochemical and Materials Technology, Chulalongkorn 
University, Soi Chula 12, Phayathai Road, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand. 
sarute@tu.ac.th.

Cellulose nanocrystals (CNCs) were successfully extracted and purified from 
cotton fabric waste via alkali treatment and acid hydrolysis. The resulting 
nanostructure was characterized using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and 
X-ray diffraction spectroscopy (XRD), confirming the successful isolation of 
CNCs. A PV/Cu2+-CNCs/CNFs/PVA hydrogel was then synthesized through chemical 
crosslinking of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), cellulose nanofibrils (CNFs), cellulose 
nanocrystals (CNCs), and borax. The incorporation of CNCs as a reinforcing agent 
significantly enhanced the hydrogel's surface area and water absorption 
capacity, leading to a substantial improvement in the colorimetric sensitivity 
of the sensor. This hydrogel was employed as a non-invasive colorimetric sensor 
for urinary cysteine detection, utilizing an indicator-displacement assay (IDA) 
with pyrocatechol violet/copper ion (PV/Cu2+) as the indicator. Upon exposure to 
cysteine, the sensor exhibited a distinct color change from greenish-blue to 
orange-red. The sensor demonstrated a linear detection range of 0-0.6 g/L and a 
limit of detection (LOD) of 0.017 g/L, effectively encompassing the clinical 
cut-off level for cysteine in human urine (0.25 g/L), relevant for Alzheimer's 
disease indication. Eventually, this sensor was validated for cysteine 
determination in artificial urine samples, confirming its practical 
applicability.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00604-025-07293-9
PMID: 40715899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


98. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Aug 6;16(15):3070-3081. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00476. Epub 2025 Jul 28.

Enhanced Positron Emission Tomography Imaging of β-Amyloid through Focused 
Ultrasound-Mediated Gallium-68 Radiotracer Delivery across the Blood-Brain 
Barrier.

Li W(1), Zha X(1)(2), Zhang X(1), Dai H(1), Pu S(1)(3), Yao X(1), Hui W(1), Xu 
R(1), Bao J(1)(4), Yu J(1), Wei Y(1), Huang J(1)(3), Guo N(5)(6), Xu M(7), Zhao 
J(5)(6), Cheng B(1), Luo Z(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Engineering & State Key Laboratory of Advanced Medical 
Materials and Devices, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai 201210, China.
(2)School of Life Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai 
201210, China.
(3)School of Physical Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai 
201210, China.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Tianjin 301617, China.
(5)Shanghai Institute for Advanced Immunochemical Studies & School of Life 
Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai 201210, China.
(6)Shanghai Clinical Research and Trial Center, Shanghai 201210, China.
(7)Department of Medical Ultrasonics, the First Affiliated Hospital, Institute 
of Diagnostic andInterventional Ultrasound, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 
510080, China.

Focused ultrasound (FUS)-mediated blood-brain barrier (BBB) opening is an 
innovative approach for enhancing the delivery of central nervous system drugs. 
68Ga radiotracers are advantageous for imaging due to their ideal half-life and 
imaging properties; however, their limited ability to traverse the BBB 
constrains their application in brain imaging. This study investigates the 
application of FUS to selectively deliver the 68Ga radiotracer, [68Ga]STZL4110, 
into the hippocampus for β-amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) imaging in 
an Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse model. The synthesis and radiolabeling of 
[68Ga]STZL4110 were accomplished, demonstrating robust binding to β-amyloid, as 
validated by Thioflavin T assays and in vitro autoradiography with both 
wild-type (WT) and APP/PS1 AD mouse brain sections. Cavitation activity 
measurements confirmed effective and consistent BBB opening post-FUS treatment, 
ensuring targeted delivery without vascular damage, as supported by histological 
analysis. Quantitative PET imaging revealed the successful detection of 
β-amyloid deposition following FUS treatment. Initially, [68Ga]STZL4110 showed a 
low volume of distribution in the right hippocampus of AD mice. FUS application 
significantly enhanced BBB permeability, leading to a 74% increase in 
[68Ga]STZL4110 uptake in the targeted right hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice compared 
with the left hippocampus, whereas no significant change was observed in WT 
mice. These findings suggest that combining FUS with [68Ga]STZL4110 could 
significantly enhance the sensitivity and specificity of 68Ga PET imaging for 
β-amyloid. FUS-mediated PET imaging may potentially address the challenge of 
effective brain imaging with radiotracers that traditionally exhibit a low 
penetration of the BBB.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00476
PMID: 40720733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70556. doi: 10.1002/alz.70556.

What the U.S. POINTER results mean for public health initiatives and the 
Alzheimer's Association.

Carrillo MC(1), Snyder HM(1), Baumgart M(2), Pike KJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical and Scientific Relations and Medical Affairs, Alzheimer's 
Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(2)Department of Public Health, Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(3)Office of the President and CEO Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, 
USA.

The Alzheimer's Association launched the U.S. Study to Protect Brain Health 
Through Lifestyle Intervention to Reduce Risk (U.S. POINTER), a 2 year clinical 
trial to evaluate whether lifestyle or behavioral interventions that 
simultaneously target multiple risk factors protect cognitive function in > 2000 
older adults (ages 60-79) at increased risk for cognitive decline. Top-line 
results from the study demonstrated that a structured, multi-domain lifestyle 
intervention significantly reduces cognitive decline compared to a self-guided 
approach over the 2 year interventions. U.S. POINTER positive trial results have 
far-reaching implications for public health, clinical care, and possibly 
dementia prevention strategies in the United States and the world. This 
perspective describes the implications and the Alzheimer's Association's 
commitment to creating the conditions that make this possible; activating 
individuals, communities, and organizations to take charge of and improve their 
brain health and creating conditions or environments for the success of 
implementation in communities. HIGHLIGHTS: A growing body of evidence suggests 
that lifestyle modifications may play a critical role in reducing the risk of 
cognitive decline and dementia. U.S. Study to Protect Brain Health Through 
Lifestyle Intervention to Reduce Risk (U.S. POINTER) positive trial results have 
far-reaching implications for public health, clinical care, and possibly 
dementia prevention strategies in the United States and the world. U.S. POINTER 
will significantly inform public health action on a multi-domain intervention 
for an at-risk population. Continued analysis of trial data, including 
biomarkers, along with insights from the Alzheimer's Association-funded Alumni 
Extension study, will offer additional insights on the impact of the trial 
intervention and provide valuable guidance on how best to adapt the intervention 
for diverse communities.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70556
PMCID: PMC12303254
PMID: 40720630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.C.C., H.M.S., M.B., K.J.P. are all full‐time 
employees of the Alzheimer's Association. M.C.C. has a child who is a graduate 
student at the University of Southern California. H.M.S.’s spouse is an employee 
at Abbott Labs in an unrelated field. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


100. PLoS One. 2025 Jul 28;20(7):e0328847. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0328847. 
eCollection 2025.

Memory improving effect of silkworm larva on insulin resistance related 
cognitive impairment model.

Hwang J(1), Choi J(1), Cha SY(1), Lee IS(1), Yoon JH(1), Jung DJ(2), Lee CW(2), 
Kim SR(3), Lee JH(4), Jeon B(5), Park JH(1)(2), Maeng S(1)(2), Park H(6).

Author information:
(1)Age-Tech Service Convergence Major, Graduate School of East-West Medical 
Science. Kyung Hee University, Yongin-si, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of East-West Medicine, Graduate School of East-West Medical 
Science, Kyung Hee University, Yongin-si, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Agricultural Biology, National Institute of Agricultural 
Sciences, Rural Development Administration, Wanju, Republic of Korea.
(4)QB Department of Agricultural Biology, National Institute of Agricultural 
Sciences, Rural Development Administration, Wanju, Republic of Korea.
(5)QBM co., ltd., Seocho-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(6)Health Park co., ltd., Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Hongjam (HJ) is the steamed and freeze-dried powder of larva-stage silkworm 
(Bombyx mori) rich in protein, unsaturated fatty acids, and minerals. Silkworm 
products have traditionally been used for medical purposes, and their 
effectiveness in diabetic and neurodegenerative diseases has been studied. In 
particular, the anti-inflammatory-antioxidant, blood sugar-lowering, and 
neuroprotective effects are expected to be useful for the prevention and 
treatment of dementia, especially in a model of dementia related to insulin 
resistance. Most animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are based on genetic 
factors and research based on these models does not explain the pathophysiology 
of sporadic AD. Therefore, no drug can effectively delay the progression of AD. 
We hypothesized that HJ may improve cognitive function in an insulin resistance 
model which is considered one of the causes of sporadic AD. Insulin resistance 
was induced by a high-fat diet and streptozotocin injection. Additionally, the 
effect of HJ was tested in in vitro cultured hippocampal slices treated with an 
N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist. At the given dose, HJ did not affect on the 
body weight but lowered blood glucose concentration, improved spatial memory in 
the Morris water maze and avoidance memory in the passive avoidance tests which 
was related to hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In hippocampal 
slices, HJ strengthened long-term potentiation, which was suppressed by AP5. 
Thus, HJ improved cognitive functions in an insulin-resistance related dementia 
model and may be useful in treating sporadic AD.

Copyright: © 2025 Hwang et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0328847
PMCID: PMC12303296
PMID: 40720390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.