1. Curr Drug Targets. 2025 Jun 24. doi: 10.2174/0113894501388678250618070927. 
Online ahead of print.

Advancing Amyloid Aggregation Research: A Focus on Innovative Therapies, 
Molecular Modeling and Nano-Delivery Systems in Alzheimer's Disease.

Hasan U(1), Jain H(1), Ali R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Delhi Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences and Research (DIPSAR), DPSRU, Pushp Vihar, New Delhi, 110017, India.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, is a 
major global health issue. Its complex pathology, including amyloid-beta (Aβ) 
aggregation, leads to neuronal damage and cognitive decline. Since Aβ plays a 
major role in AD, therapies targeting its production, aggregation, and clearance 
are being actively explored. This review discusses recent advances in gene 
therapy, enzyme inhibitors, molecular modeling, and nano-delivery systems aimed 
at modifying AD progression, highlighting their potential and challenges.
METHODS: This review compiles findings on BACE1 and γ-secretase inhibitors, gene 
therapies that modify amyloid metabolism, and combination therapies. Studies 
have been selected based on their focus on Aβ regulation and their impact on 
disease progression, cognitive function, and breakthroughs in diagnostics, 
molecular modeling, and drug delivery for neurodegenerative conditions.
RESULTS: BACE1 inhibitors, such as verubecestat, and γ-secretase inhibitors, 
shows potential, however, they face significant challenges related to BBB 
penetration and adverse effects. Gene therapies using AAV vectors and 
CRISPR/Cas9 technologies are promising, particularly for individuals genetically 
predisposed to these diseases. Combination therapies targeting amyloid, tau, and 
neuro-inflammation have emerged as effective approaches. Advancements in PET, 
SPECT, MRI, small molecule probes, molecular modeling, and nano-particle-based 
drug delivery are improving diagnostic and treatment options.
DISCUSSION: The findings emphasize the multifactorial complexity of amyloid 
disorders and the limitations of mono-therapies. While certain agents 
demonstrated efficacy in early disease stages, most treatments have failed in 
advanced phases due to poor central nervous system (CNS) bioavailability, 
adverse effects, or insufficient target engagement. Novel delivery systems, 
combination therapies, and computational design approaches offer enhanced 
translational potential. However, challenges such as immune responses, delivery 
efficiency, and off-target effects continue to pose significant barriers.
CONCLUSION: Aβ-targeted therapies, including enzyme inhibitors and gene 
therapies, hold promise, though challenges such as BBB penetration and toxicity 
still remain. Combination therapies, along with advancements in diagnostics and 
drug delivery technology, are essential for finding effective treatments for 
Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and other neurodegenerative diseases. Future research 
should prioritize overcoming the persistent barriers to BBB penetration, 
enhancing therapeutic selectivity, and refining drug delivery systems to enable 
more precise, targeted interventions, to ultimately reduce the progression of 
disease at the molecular level.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113894501388678250618070927
PMID: 40600550


2. Curr Drug Targets. 2025 Jun 24. doi: 10.2174/0113894501383329250616070727. 
Online ahead of print.

The Role of PGE2 in Age-related Diseases.

Guan J(1), Chen C(1), Wu S(1), Zhu H(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, 
National Clinical Research Center for Infectious Diseases, National Medical 
Center for Infectious Diseases, Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.

In the past several years, human life expectancy has increased dramatically, and 
the global aging process is accelerating at an unprecedented rate. Impaired 
organ functions and systemic inflammation increase the risk of aging-related 
diseases. It seriously affects the quality of life in older adults and places a 
heavy burden on the global economy and public health. Inflammation is the 
cornerstone of many age-related diseases, and among various inflammatory 
mediators, Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) has emerged as a key player. For example, 
PGE2 could participate in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by 
modulating neuroinflammation. Plasma PGE2 is regarded as a potential and 
specific diagnostic biomarker, and higher initial PGE2 levels are positively 
correlated with longer survival in AD. PGE2 also mediates bone and muscle 
metabolism to affect age-related musculoskeletal diseases, including sarcopenia, 
osteoporosis, and osteoarthritis. It activates the EP4 receptor on sensory 
nerves to inhibit sympathetic nerve activity and modulate bone formation. 
Moreover, the PGE2/EP4 axis positively regulates muscle mass and strength. In 
diabetes, increased Cox-2 and m-PGES2 promote PGE2 production. The activated 
PGE2/EP3 axis exacerbates the progression of type 2 diabetes (T2D) by impairing 
glucose metabolism and accelerating β-cell senescence. Therefore, the role of 
PGE2 in age-related diseases deserves greater attention. Its involvement is 
driven by the dysregulation of its biosynthesis, metabolism, and receptor- 
mediated signaling. Regulating the concentration of PGE2 or modulating receptor 
activity represents a promising therapeutic strategy for managing age-related 
diseases.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113894501383329250616070727
PMID: 40600549


3. Curr Pharm Des. 2025 Jun 24. doi: 10.2174/0113816128374254250605070049. Online
 ahead of print.

Exploring Neurodegenerative Diseases: Bridging the Gap between in vitro and in 
vivo Models.

El Elhaj A(1), Onger ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Histology and Embryology, Faculty of Medicine, Ondokuz Mayis 
University, Samsun, Turkey.

Neurological disorders are brain conditions characterized by the loss of nerve 
cells, leading to a decline in function. Standard examples include dementia, 
tremors, involuntary movements, muscle weakness, and autoimmune attacks. The 
most common form of dementia is Alzheimer's, affecting over 5 million elderly 
individuals, while tremors, stiffness, and slow movement are caused by 
Parkinson's. Involuntary movements and emotional problems are caused by 
Huntington's, while muscle weakness and eventual demise are caused by 
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Vision problems, fatigue, and difficulty walking 
are caused by Multiple sclerosis (MS), an autoimmune disease that attacks the 
myelin sheath. In vitro models provide cost and complexity reduction, 
environmental control, and high-through". Researchers employ both cell-based (in 
vitro) and animal- based (in vivo) models to investigate neurodegenerative 
illnesses and endeavor to formulate novel treatments for diverse conditions. In 
vitro models provide cost and complexity reduction, environment control, and 
high-throughput screening of potential therapeutic agents compared to in vivo 
models. Nevertheless, they possess constraints, including the absence of 
intricate interactions that transpire in the entire organism and the inability 
to reproduce the disease progression completely.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113816128374254250605070049
PMID: 40600544


4. J Neurochem. 2025 Jul;169(7):e70148. doi: 10.1111/jnc.70148.

Milestone Review: The History of Molecular Genetics Analysis of Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Hardy J(1).

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Neurology and Dementia Research Institute, London, UK.

Alzheimer research has been driven by genetic findings: from the 1990s until 
about 2005, by the identification of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and 
presenilin (PSEN) mutations, leading to the formulation of the amyloid 
hypothesis, and then from ~2007 by genome-wide studies which have led to the 
increasing appreciation of the importance of microglial insufficiency in the 
disease pathogenesis. These genome findings have led not only to key mechanistic 
insights but also to progress in the use of genetic data to predict those at 
high risk of the disease so that earlier treatment becomes more practical. In 
this review I will outline these developments and attempts to synthesise the 
findings into a coherent single view of the disease.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.70148
PMCID: PMC12216791
PMID: 40600356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have received funding for consulting with 
Eisai and Eli Lilly.


5. Future Med Chem. 2025 Jun;17(12):1377-1389. doi:
10.1080/17568919.2025.2525065.  Epub 2025 Jul 2.

New and potential boron-containing compounds for treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease and cancers.

Comert Onder F(1)(2), Ural K(3), Onder A(2), Ozpolat B(4), Ay M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart 
University, Çanakkale, Türkiye.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Natural Products and Drug Research Laboratory, 
Faculty of Science, Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart University, Çanakkale, Türkiye.
(3)Department of Medical System Biology, School of Graduate Studies, Çanakkale 
Onsekiz Mart University, Çanakkale, Türkiye.
(4)Department of Nanomedicine, Houston Methodist Research Institute, Houston, TX 
USA.

AIM: In this study, new boron-containing carbamate compounds were synthesized 
and evaluated as potential acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors by in vitro 
and in silico analyses.
MATERIALS & METHODS: The structures were characterized by spectroscopic analysis 
including 1H NMR, 13C NMR, 11B NMR, and MS. The purities of the compounds were 
determined by HPLC analysis. In vitro and in silico analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Based on our findings, compounds (1-4) demonstrated more potent AChE 
inhibitory activity compared to tacrine, which is an FDA-approved AChE 
inhibitor. Compound 4 had the highest inhibitory activity with an IC50 of 
37.87 ± 0.96 nM and was more effective than tacrine (74.23 ± 0.83 nM). Compounds 
1, 2, and 3, respectively, showed 1.78-, 1.73-, and 1.58-fold more potent enzyme 
inhibition activity compared to tacrine. The strong interactions with critical 
residues in the binding pocket of AChE were identified between protein and the 
compounds. Furthermore, compound 4 exerted an antiproliferative activity against 
various human cancer cell lines (32.91 ± 4.92 µM in HT29 and 42.38 ± 2.73 µM in 
MCF-7).
CONCLUSION: Our study indicates the discovery of new boron-containing AChE 
inhibitors as potential candidates for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1080/17568919.2025.2525065
PMCID: PMC12296104
PMID: 40600330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no other relevant affiliations 
or financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial 
interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed 
in the manuscript apart from those disclosed.


6. J Neurochem. 2025 Jul;169(7):e70114. doi: 10.1111/jnc.70114.

Equivalence of Plasma and Serum for Clinical Measurement of p-tau217: 
Comparative Analyses of Four Blood-Based Assays.

Chen Y(1)(2), Albert AL(1), Sehrawat A(1), Farinas MF(1), L Lopez O(1)(3), Zeng 
X(1), Cohen AD(1), Karikari TK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Dec 28:2024.12.26.24319657. doi: 10.1101/2024.12.26.24319657.

Phosphorylated tau (p-tau) 217 is a promising blood biomarker for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). However, most p-tau217 assays have been validated solely in 
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) plasma, leaving the clinical 
applicability of serum p-tau217 largely unexplored despite serum being a 
preferred matrix in many clinical laboratories. To address this gap, we compared 
p-tau217 concentrations and classification accuracies in matched plasma and 
serum samples in four research-use-only assays. Paired plasma and serum samples 
were processed from the same venipuncture collection and assessed with each of 
the four p-tau217 assays following manufacturer-recommended procedures in two 
research cohorts from the University of Pittsburgh Azheimer's Disease Research 
Center (Pitt-ADRC; n = 50) and the Human Connectome Project (n = 34). The four 
assays evaluated included three from commercial sources-Lumipulse (recently 
gained FDA approval), ALZpath, and NULISA-and another from the University of 
Pittsburgh (Pittsburgh plasma p-tau217). Plasma and serum p-tau217 levels varied 
across assays; the ALZpath, Pittsburgh, and NULISA methods showed significantly 
lower p-tau217 levels in serum compared with plasma (p < 0.0001) for both 
cohorts, while Lumipulse showed higher plasma levels in the Pitt-ADRC cohort but 
equivalent plasma and serum levels in the HCP cohort. Yet, strong correlations 
(rho > 0.8) were observed between plasma and serum p-tau217 pairs for all 
methods. Both plasma and serum p-tau217 demonstrated strong classification 
accuracies to differentiate clinical AD from normal controls, with high AUC (up 
to 0.963) for all methods. The exception was the Pittsburgh assay, where plasma 
p-tau217 had significantly superior AUC to serum p-tau217 (plasma: 0.912, serum: 
0.844). The rest of the assays had equivalent accuracies in both matrices. Serum 
p-tau217 performs equivalently as plasma p-tau217 for most assessed assays. 
Serum can be used as a substitute for plasma in the use of most p-tau217 assays 
to evaluate Aβ pathology in AD for both research and clinical purposes.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.70114
PMCID: PMC12215601
PMID: 40600294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: T.K.K. has consulted for Quanterix Corporation, 
SpearBio Inc., Neurogen Biomarking LLC., and Alzheon, has served on advisory 
boards for Siemens Healthineers, Neurogen Biomarking LLC. and Alzheon outside 
the submitted work. He has received in‐kind research support from Janssen 
Research Laboratories, SpearBio Inc., and Alamar Biosciences, as well as meeting 
travel support from the Alzheimer's Association and Neurogen Biomarking LLC., 
outside the submitted work. T.K.K. has received royalties from Bioventix for the 
transfer of specific tau antibodies and assays to third party organizations. He 
has received honoraria for speaker/grant review engagements from the NIH, UPENN, 
UW‐Madison, the Cherry Blossom symposium, the HABS‐HD/ADNI4 Health Enhancement 
Scientific Program, Advent Health Translational Research Institute, Brain Health 
conference, Barcelona‐Pittsburgh conference, the International 
Neuropsychological Society, the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai and the 
Quebec Center for Drug Discovery, Canada, all outside of the submitted work. 
T.K.K. serves/has served as a guest editor for npj Dementia, as an invited 
member of the World Health Organization committee to develop preferred product 
characteristics for blood‐based biomarker diagnostics for Alzheimer's disease, 
as an executive committee member for the Human Amyloid Imaging (HAI) conference, 
as an elected member of the NACC ADRCs Steering Committee, as co‐director of the 
NACC ADRCs Biofluid Biomarker Working Group, and as a member of the Alzheimer's 
Association committees to develop Appropriate Use Criteria for clinical use of 
blood‐based biomarkers, and treatment‐related amyloid clearance. T.K.K. is an 
inventor on several patents and provisional patents regarding biofluid biomarker 
methods, targets and reagents/compositions, that may generate income for the 
institution and/or self should they be licensed and/or transferred to another 
organization. These include WO2020193500A1: Use of a ps396 assay to diagnose 
tauopathies; 63/679,361: Methods to Evaluate Early‐Stage Pre‐Tangle TAU 
Aggregates and Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease Patients; 63/672,952: Method for 
the Quantification of Plasma Amyloid‐Beta Biomarkers in Alzheimer's Disease; 
63/693,956: Anti‐tau Protein Antigen Binding Reagents; and 2450702‐2: Detection 
of oligomeric tau and soluble tau aggregates.


7. Med Rev (2021). 2024 Dec 23;5(3):179-202. doi: 10.1515/mr-2024-0064.
eCollection  2025 Jun.

Immune cells in Alzheimer's disease: insights into pathogenesis and potential 
therapeutic targets.

Fu X(1), Cai H(1), Quan S(1), Ren Z(1), Xu Y(1), Jia L(1).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Clinical Research Center 
for Geriatric Diseases, Beijing, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder for which there 
are currently no effective treatment options. Increasing evidence suggests that 
AD is a systemic disease closely associated with the immune system, not merely a 
central nervous system (CNS) disorder. Immune cells play crucial roles in the 
onset and progression of AD. Microglia and astrocytes are the primary 
inflammatory cells in the brain that can sensitively detect changes in the 
internal environment and transform into different phenotypes to exert differing 
effects at various stages of AD. Peripheral immune cells, such as T cells, 
B cells, monocytes/macrophages, and neutrophils can also be recruited to the CNS 
to mediate the inflammatory response in AD. As such, investigating the role of 
immune cells in AD is particularly important for elucidating its specific 
pathogenesis. This review primarily discusses the roles of central innate immune 
cells, peripheral immune cells, and the interactions between central and 
peripheral immune cells in the development of neuroinflammation in AD. 
Furthermore, we listed clinical trials targeting AD-associated 
neuroinflammation, which may represent a promising direction for developing 
effective treatments for AD in the future.

© 2024 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/mr-2024-0064
PMCID: PMC12207208
PMID: 40600183

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Authors state no conflict 
of interest.


8. IBRO Neurosci Rep. 2025 Jun 16;19:101-109. doi: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.06.006. 
eCollection 2025 Dec.

Alternative splicing and the aging brain in AfrAbia: New frontiers in dementia 
research.

Aremu SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, 
Nigeria.

AfrAbia (Sub-Saharan Africa and Arab world), is undergoing a significant 
demographic shift characterized by increased longevity and rising dementia 
rates. Despite this, molecular insights into brain aging in these regions, 
especially in RNA processing pathways like alternative splicing (AS), are 
virtually absent. AS promotes transcriptomic and proteomic complexity and is 
pivotal for brain function, with its dysregulation connected to 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), frontotemporal 
dementia (FTD), and Parkinson's disease (PD). However, current knowledge is 
overwhelmingly derived from Western populations, limiting global applicability. 
This perspective synthesizes the mechanisms and regulatory elements of AS, its 
role in aging and neurodegeneration, and emerging biomarkers and therapeutic 
strategies. Special attention is paid to ancestry-associated splicing variants 
and fluid biomarker development in AfrAbian cohorts. We argue for inclusive, 
population-specific molecular studies to bridge disparities in dementia 
diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.06.006
PMCID: PMC12209933
PMID: 40600167

Conflict of interest statement: During the preparation of this work the author 
used ChatGpt in order to correct some grammars in the manuscript. After using 
this tool/service, the author(s) reviewed and edited the content as needed and 
take(s) full responsibility for the content of the publication.


9. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Jun 17;12:1568312. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1568312. 
eCollection 2025.

AlzheimerViT: harnessing lightweight vision transformer architecture for 
proactive Alzheimer's screening.

Kishor Kumar Reddy C(1), Ahmed HI(1), Mohzary M(2)(3), Monika Singh T(1), Shuaib 
M(2), Alam S(2), Alnami HM(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Stanley College of 
Engineering and Technology for Women, Hyderabad, India.
(2)Department of Computer Science, College of Engineering and Computer Science, 
Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Engineering and Technology Research Center, Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi 
Arabia.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's is a disease in the human brain characterized by gradual 
memory loss, confusion, and alterations in behavior. It is a complex and 
continuously degenerative disorder of the nervous system, which still has early 
detection and diagnosis as challenges to overcome. The disease causes 
significant damage in individuals suffering from the disorder as they 
progressively lose cognitive ability. Its diagnosis and management depend 
primarily on the ability to diagnose early to initiate proper intervention. 
Unfortunately, this remains a difficult feat, given the resemblance of early 
signs of the disease with symptoms associated with normal aging and other 
disorders involving cognition. While clinical tests have their limitations, 
brain imaging such as MRI can provide detailed insights into changes in the 
brain. Deep learning techniques, mainly when applied to MRI data, have proven 
helpful in the early detection of Alzheimer's Disease.
METHODS: In the proposed study, a lightweight, self-attention-based vision 
transformer (ViT) is employed to predict Alzheimer's disease using MRI images 
from the OASIS-3 dataset. Data pre-processing and augmentation techniques have 
been added to strengthen the model's generalization ability and enhance model 
performance, which is visualized using Grad-Cam.
RESULTS: The proposed model achieves exceptional results with an accuracy of 
98.57%, approximate precision of 98.7%, Recall of about 98.47%, and specificity 
of 98.67%. It also achieves a Kappa Score of 97.2% and an AUC ROC Score of 99%.
CONCLUSION: This paper, along with comprehensive data pre-processing and 
augmentation, represents one of the major steps toward achieving more robust and 
clinically applicable models for Alzheimer's disease prediction. The proposed 
study indicates that deep learning models have the potential to enhance the 
diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. By integrating Deep learning techniques with 
careful data processing, more reliable early detection models can be developed, 
which in turn leads to better treatment outcomes.

Copyright © 2025 Kishor Kumar Reddy, Ahmed, Mohzary, Monika Singh, Shuaib, Alam 
and Alnami.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1568312
PMCID: PMC12210019
PMID: 40600046

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


10. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Jun 17;12:1587026. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1587026.
 eCollection 2025.

GAN-enhanced deep learning for improved Alzheimer's disease classification and 
longitudinal brain change analysis.

Pandey P(1), Bhatia Khan S(2)(3)(4), Pruthi J(1), Albalawi E(5), Algarni A(6), 
Almusharraf A(7).

Author information:
(1)Manav Rachna University (MRU), Faridabad, Haryana, India.
(2)School of Science, Engineering and Environment, University of Salford, 
Salford, United Kingdom.
(3)Centre for Research Impact & Outcome, Chitkara University, Institute of 
Engineering and Technology, Rajpura, Punjab, India.
(4)Research and Innovation Cell, Rayat Bahra University, Mohali, Punjab, India.
(5)Department of Computer Science, College of Computer Sciences and Information 
Technology, King Faisal University, Al Ahsa, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Informatics and Computer Systems, College of Computer Science, 
King Khalid University, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Management, College of Business Administration, Princess Nourah 
Bint Abdulrahman University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is commonly defined by a progressive decline in 
cognitive functions and memory. Early detection is crucial to mitigate the 
devastating impacts of AD, which can significantly impair a person's quality of 
life. Traditional methods for diagnosing AD, while still in use, often involve 
time-consuming processes that are prone to errors and inefficiencies. These 
manual techniques are limited in their ability to handle the vast amount of data 
associated with the disease, leading to slower diagnosis and potential 
misclassification. Advancements in artificial intelligence (AI), specifically 
machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL), offer promising solutions to these 
challenges. AI techniques can process large datasets with high accuracy, 
significantly improving the speed and precision of AD detection. However, 
despite these advancements, issues such as limited accuracy, computational 
complexity, and the risk of overfitting still pose challenges in the field of AD 
classification. To address these challenges, the proposed study integrates deep 
learning architectures, particularly ResNet101 and long short-term memory (LSTM) 
networks, to enhance both feature extraction and classification of AD. The 
ResNet101 model is augmented with innovative layers such as the pattern 
descriptor parsing operation (PDPO) and the detection convolutional kernel layer 
(DCK), which are designed to extract the most relevant features from datasets 
such as ADNI and OASIS. These features are then processed through the LSTM 
model, which classifies individuals into categories such as cognitively normal 
(CN), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Another key 
aspect of the research is the use of generative adversarial networks (GANs) to 
identify the progressive or non-progressive nature of AD. By employing both a 
generator and a discriminator, the GAN model detects whether the AD state is 
advancing. If the original and predicted classes align, AD is deemed 
non-progressive; if they differ, the disease is progressing. This innovative 
approach provides a nuanced view of AD, which could lead to more precise and 
personalized treatment plans. The numerical outcome obtained by the proposed 
model for ADNI dataset is 0.9931, and for OASIS dataset, the accuracy gained by 
the model is 0.9985. Ultimately, this research aims to offer significant 
contributions to the medical field, helping healthcare professionals diagnose AD 
more accurately and efficiently, thus improving patient outcomes. Furthermore, 
brain simulation models are integrated into this framework to provide deeper 
insights into the underlying neural mechanisms of AD. These brain simulation 
models help visualize and predict how AD may evolve in different regions of the 
brain, enhancing both diagnosis and treatment planning.

Copyright © 2025 Pandey, Bhatia Khan, Pruthi, Albalawi, Algarni and Almusharraf.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1587026
PMCID: PMC12209275
PMID: 40600033

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


11. Brain Commun. 2025 Apr 25;7(3):fcaf159. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf159. 
eCollection 2025.

An artificial intelligence-derived metabolic network predicts psychosis in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Nguyen N(1), Gomar JJ(2), Truong JN(3), Barbero J(4), Do PP(5), Rommal A(4), Oh 
A(1), Eidelberg D(1)(4), Koppel J(2)(4), Vo A(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Neurosciences, The Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research, 
Manhasset, NY 11030, USA.
(2)The Litwin-Zucker Research Center for the Study of Alzheimer's Disease, The 
Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research, Manhasset, NY 11030, USA.
(3)Department of Computer Science, Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and 
Computer Science at The University of Texas at Dallas, Dallas, TX 75080, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular Medicine, Donald and Barbara Zucker School of 
Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, Hempstead, NY 11549, USA.
(5)Manning College of Information and Computer Sciences, University of 
Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst, MA 01003, USA.

The delusions and hallucinations that characterize Alzheimer's disease psychosis 
(AD + P) are associated with violence towards caregivers and an accelerated 
cognitive and functional decline whose management relies on the utilization of 
medications developed for young people with schizophrenia. The development of 
novel therapies requires biomarkers that distinguish AD + P from non-psychotic 
Alzheimer's disease. We investigated whether there might exist a brain metabolic 
network that distinguishes AD + P from non-psychotic Alzheimer's disease that 
could be used as a biomarker to predict and track the course of AD + P for use 
in clinical trials. Utilizing F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission 
tomography scans from cohorts of cognitively healthy elderly (N = 174), those 
with Alzheimer's disease without psychosis (N = 174) and those with AD + P (N = 
88) participating in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative study, we 
employed a convolutional neural network to identify and validate the Alzheimer's 
Psychosis Network. We analysed network progression, clinical correlations and 
psychosis prediction using expression scores and network organization using 
graph theory. The Alzheimer's Psychosis Network accurately distinguishes AD + P 
from controls (97%), with increasing scores correlating with cognitive decline. 
The Alzheimer's Psychosis Network-based approach predicts psychosis in 
Alzheimer's disease with 77% accuracy and identifies specific brain regions and 
connections associated with psychosis. Alzheimer's Psychosis Network expression 
was found to be associated with increased cognitive and functional decline that 
characterizes AD + P. The increased metabolic connectivity between motor and 
language/social cognition regions in AD + P may drive delusions and agitated 
behaviour. Alzheimer's Psychosis Network holds promise as a biomarker for AD + 
P, aiding in treatment development and patient stratification.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf159
PMCID: PMC12209852
PMID: 40599906

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests.


12. Curr Ther Res Clin Exp. 2025 May 27;103:100798. doi: 
10.1016/j.curtheres.2025.100798. eCollection 2025.

Cognitive Effect of Levetiracetam in Patients with Alzheimer's Disease or Mild 
Cognitive Impairment: A Systematic Review.

Mohamadi MH(1), Bavafa A(2)(3), Salehi S(4), Abedi M(5), Shahabi F(2), Jafarlou 
S(1), Kolivand P(6), Sahab-Negah S(7).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Sabzevar University of Medical Sciences, 
Sabzevar, Iran.
(2)Neuroscience Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Department of Food Nanotechnology, Research Institute of Food Science and 
Technology, Mashhad, Iran.
(5)Institute for Molecular and Clinical Immunology, Medical Faculty, 
Otto-von-Guericke University, Magdeburg, Germany.
(6)Department of Health Economics, School of Medicine, Shahed University, 
Tehran, Iran.
(7)Multiple Sclerosis Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Various therapeutic interventions have been investigated for 
cognitive impairment, a common problem in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Levetiracetam (LEV), an antiepileptic drug, has been shown to alleviate 
cognitive impairment.
OBJECTIVE: The present systematic review aimed to evaluate the cognitive effects 
of LEV in patients with AD or mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
METHODS: We searched PubMed/MEDLINE, Scopus, Web of Sciences, and Embase 
databases for all studies on LEV and cognitive impairment. After multistep 
screening, we identified qualified interventional studies and performed further 
data extraction. We reviewed the methodological diversity across the studies and 
assessed the quality of each study using the critical appraisal of the Joanna 
Briggs Institute checklist (the risk of bias assessment).
RESULTS: Of the 1091 publications, only 5 articles were qualified for review. 
All studies enrolled patients with AD or MCI, and at least 1 arm of the trial 
involved LEV therapy. Four of 5 studies reported significant cognitive 
improvement in patients with AD or MCI after the LEV trials, whereas 1 study 
found no significant change in cognitive status. The risk of bias assessment 
revealed that 4 studies had a low risk of bias. Among them, 3 showed significant 
improvement, whereas 1 did not report a significant change in cognitive 
function.
CONCLUSIONS: The efficacy of LEV therapy for cognitive impairment varies across 
studies owing to different methodologies, dosages, treatment durations, and 
outcome assessment tools. This study suggests that LEV may exert a beneficial 
impact on cognitive function in patients with AD or MCI. However, a quantitative 
comparison or meta-analysis is essential to draw definitive conclusions about 
the cognitive effects of LEV in AD and MCI.

© 2025 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.curtheres.2025.100798
PMCID: PMC12210292
PMID: 40599654

Conflict of interest statement: All authors approved that there are no interests 
to declare. The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.


13. Cureus. 2025 May 31;17(5):e85156. doi: 10.7759/cureus.85156. eCollection 2025
 May.

The Potential for Neuromodulation in the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease: A 
Review of Clinical Trials.

Jones T(1), Shalom M(2), Chalamgari A(3), Gold J(4), Zomalan B(1), Patel S(5), 
Munjal V(6), Khan MF(7), Mao Y(8), Gendreau JL(9), Abraham ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of California San Diego, San Diego, 
USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Children's Hospital at Montefiore, Bronx, USA.
(3)Department of Surgery, University of Florida, Gainesville, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Rowan University Cooper Medical School, Camden, USA.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Seton Hall University, South Orange, USA.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Ohio State University College of Medicine, 
Columbus, USA.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, USA.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, USA.
(9)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
USA.

There is still no cure for Alzheimer's disease (AD), which remains the leading 
cause of dementia in Western countries. Neuromodulation, the use of electrical 
or chemical interventions to modify neuronal excitability, has shown promise in 
treating several neurological conditions and has become a topic of interest in 
the context of AD. We aim to review clinical trials related to neuromodulation 
in AD. Analysis of current clinical trials was conducted using 
ClinicalTrials.gov. The search term used was "Alzheimer's disease," and results 
were filtered for studies that included neuromodulation. One hundred and eleven 
clinical trials were found, and 82 trials remained after exclusion. All trials 
utilized some form of neuromodulation device as the primary intervention, with 
transcranial magnetic stimulation and transcranial direct current stimulation as 
the most common modalities. Thirty-six (43.9%) trials were completed, 20 (24.3%) 
were not yet recruiting, 23 (28.0%) were actively recruiting, and three (3.7%) 
were enrolling by invitation. Of the completed trials, only 11 (30.6%) had 
associated results, and of those 11, eight (22.2% of completed trials, 72.7% of 
trials with results) were associated with published articles in a peer-reviewed 
journal. All but one of the eight trials displayed some form of improvement in 
their metric of choice. Although the number of trials with published results is 
limited, there appears to be positive evidence of the efficacy of 
neuromodulation in treating AD. The medical community must continue to emphasize 
the need for additional clinical trials in this area.

Copyright © 2025, Jones et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.85156
PMCID: PMC12209552
PMID: 40599507

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


14. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jun 17;17:1600119. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1600119.  eCollection 2025.

Effects of West Nile virus on behavioral and cognitive performance, cortical Aβ 
pathology, viral loads, and immune measures of middle-aged NL-G-F/E3 and 
NL-G-F/E4 mice.

O'Niel A(1), Parkins CJ(2), Pederson A(1), Saltonstall E(1), Bunnell E(1), 
Aggarwal R(1), Sandholm P(1), Kessler K(1), Harrison HF(2), Smith JL(2), Hirsch 
AJ(2), Raber J(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Neuroscience, Oregon Health and Science University, 
Portland, OR, United States.
(2)Vaccine and Gene Therapy Center, Oregon Health and Science University, 
Portland, OR, United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR, 
United States.
(4)Department of Radiation Medicine, Oregon Health and Science University, 
Portland, OR, United States.
(5)Division of Neuroscience, ONPRC, Oregon Health and Science University, 
Portland, OR, United States.

INTRODUCTION: West Nile Virus (WNV) can cause severe and long-lasting 
neurological disease and results in some neuropathology and neuroinflammation 
seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Exposure to WNV might impact AD-relevant 
behavioral and cognitive performance and neuropathology via AD-susceptibility 
genes (i.e., E4) and by inducing neuroinflammation (i.e., increases in TCR-α, 
IFN-γ, TNF-α, and CXCL- 10). There are three human apolipoprotein E (E) 
isoforms, which play a role in cholesterol metabolism: E2, E3, and E4. Compared 
to E3, E4 is an AD risk factor.
METHODS: We crossed knock-in (KI) mice expressing human amyloid precursor 
protein (APP) containing the dominant NL-G-F mutations with human apoE targeted 
replacement (TR) mice and used middle-aged NL-G-F/E3 and NL-G-F/E4 mice to 
assess the role of prior WNV (subtype Kunjin virus) (KUNV) exposure on 
hAPP/Aβ-induced behavioral alterations, cognitive injury, circadian body 
temperatures, viral loads, neuropathology, and transcript levels of four immune 
measures important in the detrimental effects of KUNV on brain function.
RESULTS: KUNV affected physiological, behavioral, cognitive, amyloid pathology, 
viral load, and immune measures in middle aged NL-G-F mice in an apoE 
isoform-dependent fashion. NL-G-F/E4 mice were more susceptible to KUNV induced 
cognitive injury and prolonged viral load in the cortex.
DISCUSSION: These results support an important apoE isoform-dependent role in 
modulating phenotypes in the NL-G-F AD mouse model following WNV exposure.

Copyright © 2025 O’Niel, Parkins, Pederson, Saltonstall, Bunnell, Aggarwal, 
Sandholm, Kessler, Harrison, Smith, Hirsch and Raber.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1600119
PMCID: PMC12209204
PMID: 40599380

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


15. iScience. 2025 Jun 3;28(7):112817. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2025.112817.
eCollection  2025 Jul 18.

Metabolomic and microbial insights: Kai-Xin-San's impact on Alzheimer's disease 
pathology.

Ma H(1)(2), Yu Z(2), Qiao Q(2), Wang W(2), Li Z(3)(2), Wang P(3)(2), Song 
J(1)(2), Zhang X(1)(2), Su Y(1)(2), Sun Y(4), Xie Z(3)(2), Zhang Z(1)(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Collaborative Innovation Center of Prevention and Treatment of Major Diseases 
by Chinese and Western Medicine, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, 
Zhengzhou, Henan 450046, China.
(2)Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, 
Zhengzhou, Henan 450046, China.
(3)Collaborative Innovation Center of Research and Development on the Whole 
Industry Chain of Yu-Yao, Zhengzhou, Henan 450046, China.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Chengdu Medical College, Chengdu 610500, China.

There has been increasing interest in the connection between AD, gut microbiota, 
and metabolites. Kai-Xin-San (KXS) has been commonly employed in ancient and 
modern Chinese clinical trials for the treatment of dementia; however, whether 
the protective effect of KXS in AD is related to the gut microbiota remains 
elusive. APP/PS1 mice were used as the model of AD. 43 key metabolites 
influenced by KXS were screened using untargeted metabolomics. At the genus 
level, Clostridium_IV, Eubacterium, Acetatifactor, etc., were identified to be 
impacted by KXS using 16S rRNA sequencing. Additionally, we identified 9 
distinct intestinal floras at the genus level that were correlated with 13 
pivotal differential metabolites related to cognitive impairment. KXS also 
inhibited the neuroinflammation, mostly via regulating the key metabolites. A 
potential relationship between gut microbiota, metabolites, and 
neuroinflammation is suggested as a protective mechanism of KXS in AD. These 
findings provide support for further development of KXS.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2025.112817
PMCID: PMC12209901
PMID: 40599314

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


16. Biochem Biophys Rep. 2025 Jun 17;43:102089. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2025.102089.
 eCollection 2025 Sep.

BDNF gene therapy rescues neuronal function via unique and common 
transcriptional responses in Aβ and tau-driven Alzheimer's disease mouse models.

Tang S(1), Luo W(2), Cheng C(2)(3), Shen L(3), Wu X(1), Xiao X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China.
(2)Belief Biomed Inc, Shanghai, 200237, China.
(3)School of Bioengineering, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protects neurons from degeneration, 
making it a promising therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, 
the genetic regulation resulting from BDNF overexpression in the brain remains 
to be further illustrated. Using APP/PS1 and rTg4510 mouse models, we analyzed 
hippocampal transcriptomes after intrahippocampal AAVT42-BDNF injection. In 
APP/PS1 mice with Aβ accumulation, BDNF upregulated genes involved in neuronal 
signaling and downregulated neurodegenerative pathways. In rTg4510 mice with 
p-tau pathology, upregulated genes were associated with cell differentiation and 
neuronal development, while downregulated genes were related to metabolism and 
biosynthesis. A comparison of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the 
two strains identified eight commonly upregulated genes (Cecr2, Cdhr1, Dusp6, 
Pam, Rasd1, Dusp4, Htr5b, Tmem117) and two downregulated genes (Abhd14a, Pmel). 
Notably, three genes - Npy, Crh, Tac1-were upregulated in both models, 
suggesting shared neuroprotective mechanisms. These findings reveal distinct and 
common genetic responses to BDNF in Aβ and p-tau pathogenesis, supporting its 
potential as a therapeutic strategy for AD.

© 2025 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2025.102089
PMCID: PMC12212124
PMID: 40599204

Conflict of interest statement: Xiao Xiao is the inventor of a patent about the 
AAVT42 serotype used in this paper (a reference to patent no. US 2016/0304904 
A1). Wenshu Luo currently works for Belief Biomed Inc, and Xiao Xiao is the 
company's founder.


17. Ann Geriatr Med Res. 2025 Jun;29(2):207-212. doi: 10.4235/agmr.24.0158. Epub 
2025 Feb 25.

Intervention Effects of the Holistic Physio-Cognitive Rehabilitation for 
Alzheimer Disease and Mild Cognitive Impairment.

Osawa A(1), Maeshima S(2), Kamiya M(1), Ueda I(1), Itoh N(1), Kondo I(1), Arai 
H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, National Center for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology, Obu, Aichi, Japan.
(2)Education and Innovation Center, National Center for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology, Obu, Aichi, Japan.
(3)National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Obu, Aichi, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive decline in dementia often leads to impaired activities of 
daily living (ADL), which worsens as the condition progresses. Although a 
complex rehabilitation program that includes exercise, cognitive tasks, and 
family guidance improves physical ability in people with dementia and mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI), the effects on cognitive function and ADL remain 
unclear. We conducted this study to clarify this point.
METHODS: This retrospective observational study was conducted at the outpatient 
rehabilitation department of the National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, 
Japan. It analyzed 50 MCI and Alzheimer disease (AD) patients who participated 
in a holistic physico-cognitive rehabilitation (HPCR) program. The control group 
consisted of 50 patients matched by age, gender, disease, and Barthel Index (BI) 
from 963 MCI and AD patients who did not undergo HPCR. Cognitive function was 
assessed using the Mini-Mental State Examination, and ADL was evaluated with the 
BI.
RESULTS: Both groups showed a significant decline in MMSE scores after 1 year. 
However, the intervention group maintained its ADL function, while the control 
group experienced a significant reduction in BI scores.
CONCLUSION: HPCR, combining exercise therapy and cognitive training, may help 
maintain ADL in patients with MCI and AD despite cognitive decline. This study 
suggests that rehabilitation plays a crucial role in sustaining daily 
functioning in dementia care.

DOI: 10.4235/agmr.24.0158
PMCID: PMC12214989
PMID: 40598947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The researchers claim no 
conflicts of interest.


18. Psychogeriatrics. 2025 Jul;25(4):e70063. doi: 10.1111/psyg.70063.

Clinical Characteristics of Older Adults With Late-Onset Suicide Attempts: A 
Hospital-Based Retrospective Study.

Morioka D(1), Kobayashi R(1), Sakamoto K(1), Shirata T(1), Kobayashi T(2), 
Suzuki A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Yamagata University School of Medicine, Yamagata, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, Yamagata University 
School of Medicine, Yamagata, Japan.

BACKGROUND: No previous study has fully described older adults who make a first 
suicide attempt late in life. We retrospectively reviewed adults ≥ 60 years 
admitted to a university psychiatric ward after an attempt to (1) detail their 
demographic and clinical features; (2) compare admission and discharge diagnoses 
to measure diagnostic shifts-especially from major depressive disorder (MDD) to 
dementia; and (3) determine whether certain dementia subtypes, notably dementia 
with Lewy bodies (DLB), are over-represented.
METHODS: Medical charts of patients transported to the emergency department and 
hospitalised between April 2015 and March 2024 were screened. After excluding 
cases with psychiatric disorders before the age of 60 years, 63 late-onset 
attempters were analysed. Diagnoses were reassessed with DSM-5-TR and standard 
neurodegenerative criteria; discrepancies were resolved by two senior 
psychiatrists. Mini-Mental State Examination scores, suicide methods and 
demographics were compared across final diagnoses.
RESULTS: At discharge, psychiatric disorders predominated (65.1%), but dementia 
was present in 31.7%; DLB was the leading subtype (19.0%), followed by 
Alzheimer's disease (9.5%). Diagnostic revision was common: 17 patients (27.0%) 
changed diagnosis during hospitalisation, including 15 who shifted from MDD to 
dementia; 10 of these reclassifications were to DLB and six met criteria for 
psychiatric-onset DLB. Mini-Mental State Examination scores did not differ 
between MDD and DLB, although scores were lower in Alzheimer's disease. Suicide 
methods-most often drug overdose-showed no relation to diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Almost one-third of older first-time attempters harboured 
unrecognised dementia, most frequently DLB and over one-quarter of initial MDD 
diagnoses converted to dementia after full assessment. Brief cognitive screens 
alone missed these cases. Routine post-attempt care for older adults should 
therefore include informant history, detailed neuropsychological testing and 
dementia-specific biomarkers to guide targeted prevention and treatment.

© 2025 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/psyg.70063
PMID: 40598878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(4):1360-1382. doi: 10.1177/13872877251352107. 
Epub 2025 Jul 1.

Low-dose dietary vorinostat increases brain histone acetylation levels and 
reduces oxidative stress in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model.

Bose C(1)(2), Hindle A(1)(2), Smith SC(1)(2), Strickland J(1)(2), Zhang 
C(1)(2)(3)(4), Guzman I(1)(2)(5), Baker A(1)(2)(6), Ponomarev I(1)(7), Manczak 
M(2)(7)(8), Shin AC(7)(9)(10), Pal R(11), Singh SP(10)(12), Lawrence 
JJ(1)(2)(7)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Texas Tech 
University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(2)Garrison Institute on Aging, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 
Lubbock, TX, USA.
(3)Honors College, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(5)Department of Animal & Food Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX, 
USA.
(6)MD/PhD Program, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, 
USA.
(7)Center of Excellence for Translational Neuroscience and Therapeutics, Texas 
Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(9)Neurobiology of Nutrition Laboratory, Department of Nutritional Sciences, 
College of Health & Human Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(10)Center of Excellence for Integrated Health, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(11)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Texas Tech University, 
Lubbock, TX, USA.
(12)Department of Internal Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) disrupts histone acetylation/deacetylation 
homeostasis, blocking access of transcription factors to DNA, and compromising 
learning. Vorinostat (VOR), the only FDA-approved HDAC inhibitor that is orally 
bioavailable and brain penetrant, confers neuroprotection in AD models. We 
delivered VOR via diet in an AD mouse model, examining tolerability, accompanied 
by biochemical analyses.ObjectiveOur objective was to examine dietary delivery 
of vorinostat for tolerability, including changes to histone acetylation, 
amyloid-β (Aβ) production, oxidative stress (OS), mitochondrial health, and 
synaptic integrity.MethodsFood pellets containing control, 0.18 mg/g (low-dose) 
and 0.36 mg/g (high-dose) VOR were administered to hAβ-KI AD mice for 14 days. 
Brain acetyl-histone H3 (AH3), total H3 expression, and synaptic markers were 
measured via Western blot. Aβ, H2O2, antioxidant capacity, lipid peroxidation 
(via 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE)), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and citrate 
synthase (CS) activity were measured in brain tissue.ResultsVOR inhibited brain 
HDAC enzyme activity and increased AH3 and H3 expression at both VOR doses. Aβ 
and synaptic proteins were not significantly affected; however, OS markers were 
improved at both doses. Both doses increased CS activity, while ATP was 
increased only at the low dose. Finally, low-dose VOR was tolerable over 2 
months.ConclusionsWe established that low-dose VOR, delivered via diet, is 
tolerable in AD mice, successfully inhibiting brain HDAC activity while reducing 
OS and improving mitochondrial health. This study improves existing preclinical 
experimental designs by enabling noninvasive manipulation of histone acetylation 
through dietary intervention. This route of administration provides advantages 
for future preclinical animal studies.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251352107
PMCID: PMC12322344
PMID: 40598871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


20. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):823-831. doi: 10.1177/13872877251350125.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Klotho protein in Alzheimer's disease: Diet leading to immortality?

Walczak K(1), Kołodziejczyk W(1), Pszczołowska M(1), Kozłowska M(1), Beszłej 
JA(2), Leszek J(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Wrocław Medical University, Wrocław, Poland.
(2)Clinic of Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, Medical Department, Wrocław 
Medical University, Wrocław, Poland.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia, leading to 
progressive cognitive decline and premature death. Despite decades of research, 
the exact cause of AD remains unknown, and current treatments only slow disease 
progression without addressing its root cause. Recent studies suggest that 
endogenous factors such as the Klotho protein may have neuroprotective 
properties and influence AD progression. This review aims to explore the role of 
Klotho protein in AD, with a particular focus on its biological functions, 
expression, and potential therapeutic implications. Additionally, it examines 
the relationship between Klotho levels and dietary patterns. A literature review 
was conducted to analyze existing research on Klotho protein, its 
neuroprotective effects, and its correlation with different dietary factors in 
the context of AD. Evidence suggests that Klotho protein plays a crucial role in 
cellular metabolism and neuroprotection. Higher levels of Klotho have been 
linked to better cognitive function and reduced neurodegeneration. Emerging 
research also indicates that certain dietary patterns, particularly the 
Mediterranean diet, may positively influence Klotho expression. Klotho protein 
represents a promising therapeutic target in AD, potentially slowing disease 
progression through its neuroprotective effects. Further research is needed to 
better understand the mechanisms regulating Klotho levels, particularly the 
impact of diet, and how they can be leveraged for AD prevention and treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251350125
PMID: 40598860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


21. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(4):1436-1451. doi: 10.1177/13872877251352194. 
Epub 2025 Jul 1.

PTEN inhibition induces neuronal differentiation and neuritogenesis in SH-SY5Y 
cells via AKT signaling pathway.

Moreira NCDS(1), Piassi LO(1), Lima JEBF(1), Passos GA(1)(2), Sakamoto-Hojo 
ET(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Ribeirão Preto Medical School, University of São 
Paulo-USP, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Genetics and Molecular Biology, Department of Basic and Oral 
Biology, School of Dentistry of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Philosophy, Sciences and Letters at 
Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo-USP, São Paulo, Brazil.

BackgroundPTEN is a key regulator of neuronal differentiation and neurogenesis. 
Its role in modulating the PI3K/AKT pathway and oxidative stress responses in 
neuronal models remains an area of active investigation.ObjectiveThis study 
aimed to assess the effects of PTEN knockdown on neuronal differentiation, 
neuritic growth, and PI3K/AKT pathway activation in SH-SY5Y cells.MethodsSH-SY5Y 
cells were treated with PTEN siRNA to induce PTEN knockdown. The level of PTEN 
inhibition was confirmed, and assays were performed to evaluate neurogenesis and 
neuritogenesis at 3- and 7-days post-treatment. Protein expression analysis of 
key components in the AKT/GSK3-β/Tau pathway was conducted to assess their role 
in neurogenesis. Additionally, the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 was used to examine 
its impact on PTEN knockdown-induced neuronal differentiation.ResultsPTEN 
knockdown significantly increased neurite lengths and reduced cytoplasmic size, 
indicating neuronal differentiation. Protein analysis showed that PTEN 
inhibition modulated the expression of components in the AKT/GSK3-β/Tau pathway. 
The PI3K inhibitor LY294002 prevented neuronal differentiation, confirming the 
involvement of the PI3K/AKT pathway in mediating the effects of PTEN 
knockdown.ConclusionsOur findings demonstrate that PTEN plays a crucial role in 
regulating neuronal differentiation in SH-SY5Y cells. The PI3K/AKT pathway 
mediates the effects of PTEN knockdown, suggesting PTEN as a potential 
therapeutic target for neurodegenerative diseases where its dysregulation may 
contribute to disease progression.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251352194
PMID: 40598859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


22. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(4):1629-1640. doi: 10.1177/13872877251352548. 
Epub 2025 Jul 1.

Glucose-lipid metabolic index reflects cognitive impairment of non-diabetic 
elderly individuals.

Zeng Y(1)(2), Zhao X(1)(2), Sang S(1)(2), Yu S(1)(2), Zhong C(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers Center for 
Brain Science, Institutes of Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)National Clinical Research Center for Aging and Medicine, Huashan Hospital, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

BackgroundGlucose and lipid metabolic disorders are involved in the impairment 
of cognitive function. However, it remains unclear the link between a new 
indicator of glucose-lipid metabolism index (GLMI) and cognitive 
impairment.ObjectiveThis study investigates the relationship between GLMI and 
multidimensional cognitive function in adults aged ≥ 60 years.MethodsGLMI was 
derived from glucose and lipid metabolism parameters. Consortium to Establish a 
Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) Word Learning test, Animal Fluency Test 
(AFT) and Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST) were used to evaluate the 
cognitive abilities of participants. Linear regression, subgroup analyses, 
multivariable adjustments, and restricted cubic spline (RCS) models were 
employed to evaluate GLMI-cognition associations.ResultsAmong 787 participants 
from NHANES 2011-2014, diabetic individuals exhibited higher GLMI levels and 
more severe cognitive impairment than non-diabetic counterparts. In non-diabetic 
adults, GLMI showed linear correlations with CERAD and DSST assessed cognitive 
deficits. Subgroup analyses confirmed high GLMI as an independent risk factor 
for cognitive dysfunction in CERAD and DSST assessment. Multivariable regression 
revealed increased GLMI significantly elevated cognitive decline risk. ROC 
analysis identified 581.41 as the optimal GLMI cutoff (specificity: 86.0%) for 
predicting DSST impairment, outperforming traditional indices (TyG/HOMA-IR). RCS 
models demonstrated nonlinear GLMI-cognition associations, with a dose-dependent 
risk curve (200-800 range) and critical threshold at 545.ConclusionsThis study 
establishes that a high score of GLMI is associated with great severity of 
cognitive impairment in non-diabetic population.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251352548
PMID: 40598858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
disclosed receipt of the following financial support for the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article: Zhong C holds share of Shanghai 
Raising Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., which is dedicated to developing drugs for the 
prevention and treatment of AD. Other authors claim to have no competing 
interests.


23. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):996-1009. doi: 10.1177/13872877251350722.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

An ABCA1 missense variant decreases cholesterol efflux and confers Alzheimer's 
disease risk in the Chinese population.

Liu SK(1), Cao H(1)(2), Yang X(1), Zhou X(1)(2), Chen Y(1)(3)(4)(5), Fu 
WY(1)(2), Chan SY(1), Ip FC(1)(2)(3), Mok KY(1)(2)(6), Mok VC(7), Kwok TC(8), 
Hardy J(2)(6)(9), Fu AK(1)(2)(3)(5), Ip NY(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience and 
Molecular Neuroscience Center, The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, HKSAR, China.
(2)InnoHK Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, HKSAR, China.
(3)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Science, Disease and Drug 
Development, Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute of Brain Science, HKUST Shenzhen 
Research Institute, Shenzhen, China.
(4)The Brain Cognition and Brain Disease Institute, Shenzhen Institutes of 
Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, China.
(5)SIAT-HKUST Joint Laboratory for Brain Science, Shenzhen, China.
(6)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
University College London, London, UK.
(7)Lau Tat-chuen Research Centre of Brain Degenerative Diseases in Chinese, 
Gerald Choa Neuroscience Institute, Lui Che Woo Institute of Innovative 
Medicine, Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, Division of Neurology, 
Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
HKSAR, China.
(8)Therese Pei Fong Chow Research Centre for Prevention of Dementia, Division of 
Geriatrics, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, HKSAR, China.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, UK.

BackgroundGenetic studies have revealed that single-nucleotide polymorphisms 
(SNPs) of ABCA1 are associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk. However, 
their AD-related effects in non-European populations are not well studied. 
Moreover, the functional implications of these AD-associated SNPs remain 
unclear.ObjectiveWe examined the AD associations of ABCA1 SNPs in the Chinese 
population and investigated the underlying mechanisms whereby these SNPs 
modulate AD risk.MethodsWe conducted a genetic analysis in a Hong Kong Chinese 
AD cohort (n = 332 patients with AD, n = 316 normal controls). Specifically, we 
analyzed 6 independent ABCA1 SNPs reported to be associated with AD risk in 
populations of European descent. To investigate the effects of these SNPs on 
ABCA1 protein function and brain molecular phenotypes, we analyzed cholesterol 
efflux in human glioblastoma cells as well as the associations between the AD 
risk SNPs and brain transcriptomic profiles, respectively.ResultsThe ABCA1 
coding SNP, rs2230806 (p.R219 K), was significantly associated with AD in the 
Chinese population, specifically in females (odds ratio [95% confidence 
interval] = 1.65 [1.16-2.33]). Notably, human glioblastoma cells expressing the 
ABCA1 R219 K showed a 17% cholesterol efflux reduction (p < 0.001). Moreover, 
ABCA1 rs2230806 was associated with changes in the expression of oligodendrocyte 
genes involved in myelination in the brain in females.ConclusionsWe identified a 
significant AD risk ABCA1 coding variant in the Chinese population and 
demonstrated its effects on cholesterol efflux and brain molecular phenotypes. 
These results shed light on the genetic basis whereby an ABCA1 genetic variant 
contributes to AD pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251350722
PMID: 40598857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


24. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 1;17(1):144. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01798-4.

Safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects of the 
muscarinic M(1) positive allosteric modulator VU0467319 for Alzheimer's disease: 
a single ascending-dose study in healthy participants.

Conley AC(1), Key AP(1)(2), Blackford JU(1)(3), Russell JK(1)(4), Albert KM(1), 
Gong X(1), Bubser M(5)(6), Rook JM(5)(6), Conn PJ(5)(6), Lindsley CW(5)(6), 
Jones CK(5)(6), Newhouse PA(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cognitive Medicine, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral 
Sciences, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 1601 23rd Ave South, Nashville, 
TN, 37212, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(3)Munroe-Meyer Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 
USA.
(4)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine, 
University of Southern California, San Diego, CA, USA.
(5)Warren Center for Neuroscience Drug Discovery, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, TN, USA.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.
(7)Center for Cognitive Medicine, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral 
Sciences, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 1601 23rd Ave South, Nashville, 
TN, 37212, USA. paul.newhouse@vanderbilt.edu.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2025 Apr 04:rs.3.rs-6271510. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6271510/v1.

The development of cholinergic neurotransmitter based cognitive enhancers for 
Alzheimer's disease and other neuropsychiatric disorders have focused recently 
on allosteric modulation of specific muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) 
subtypes to reduce dose-limiting side-effects that have been the hallmark of 
earlier orthosteric mAChR agonists. VU0467319 (VU319) is an investigational 
positive allosteric modulator of the M1 mAChR. A Phase 1 first-in-human study 
was conducted assessing safety and brain activity utilizing cognitive tasks and 
event-related potentials (ERPs) in single-ascending dose and food effect 
studies. VU319 was given orally to 52 healthy volunteers aged 18-55 years. The 
single ascending dose study tested 40 participants in five dose escalating 
cohorts (60, 120, 240, 400, 600 mg; 6 VU319/2 placebo per dose). The food effect 
study involved 12 participants, 10 VU319 (120 mg)/2 placebo. Exploratory 
cognitive and electrophysiological tasks were examined pre-dosing and at 5 h 
post-dose. Tolerability was good with no observed dose limiting side effects 
throughout the full dose range tested. In the single ascending dose study, there 
were 47 TEAEs reported across the 5 cohorts, 14 in the placebo group and 33 
across the 5 active dose cohorts. In the food effect study, there were 20 TEAEs 
reported, 6 in the placebo group and 14 in the fed and fasted conditions. Drug 
exposure increased with dose in a less than dose-proportional manner with a 
half-life ranging from 30 to 55 h. Peak concentration was observed between 5 and 
9.5 h across the dosage groups. Absorption was increased with food. Exploratory 
cognitive/ERP testing showed evidence for drug-induced CNS activity on higher 
doses of VU319 compared to placebo. Single dose VU319 across five ascending 
cohorts appeared to have a favorable safety profile and a PK profile consistent 
with once daily dosing. Target engagement results suggest stimulation of the 
cholinergic system functioning in healthy adults following a single dose of 
VU319. These results provide a strong foundation for further studies of positive 
allosteric modulators of muscarinic M1 receptors for potential cognitive or 
behavioral benefits.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01798-4
PMCID: PMC12211128
PMID: 40598606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Duke University Institutional Review 
Board and was performed in accordance with Good Clinical Practice guidelines and 
the Declaration of Helsinki. All participants signed written informed consent 
documents before participating in the study. Competing interests: Vanderbilt 
University and the Warren Center for Neuroscience Drug Discovery are partnered 
with Acadia Pharmaceuticals to develop next generation M1 PAMs and hold patents 
to the same. The other authors have no competing interests to declare.


25. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 1;17(1):143. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01797-5.

Arhgef7 as a key target for enriched environment rescuing spatial cognitive 
deficits and anxiety-like behaviors in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease 
following early social isolation.

Wang Y(#)(1), Wang Z(#)(1)(2), Li Y(1), Cao M(1), Zhang S(1), Ding S(1), Chen 
S(1), Jin Y(1), Zhang Y(3), Gao J(4), Xiao M(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Neurodegeneration, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, 211166, China.
(2)Wuxi People's Hospital, Wuxi Medical Center, Nanjing Medical University, 
Wuxi, 214000, China.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Neurodegeneration, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, 211166, China. yanlizhang0229@njmu.edu.cn.
(4)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Neurodegeneration, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, 211166, China. gaojunying@njmu.edu.cn.
(5)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Neurodegeneration, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, 211166, China. mingx@njmu.edu.cn.
(6)Wuxi People's Hospital, Wuxi Medical Center, Nanjing Medical University, 
Wuxi, 214000, China. mingx@njmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Both social and physical environmental factors influence the 
progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying mechanisms are not 
yet fully understood. This study aims to investigate how an enriched environment 
(EE) alleviates the detrimental effects of early social isolation (SI) on 
AD-like pathophysiology.
METHODS: Four-week-old 5×FAD transgenic mice were randomly divided into 
group-housed and isolated groups. After 3 weeks, the mice were further raised in 
either a physical EE or a standard environment for an additional 3 weeks. 
Subsequently, these experimental subjects underwent a two-week of behavioral 
tests while maintaining their original housing conditions unchanged, followed by 
neuropathological analyses. A series of experiments were conducted on the medial 
prefrontal cortex (mPFC), including transcriptome sequencing, cellular 
localization, and knockdown and overexpression of a candidate gene, to identify 
the key molecules through which physical EE alleviates SI-induced AD-like 
alterations. The protective effects of the identified gene on cultured forebrain 
neurons exposed to β-amyloid stimulation, as well as its associated signaling 
pathways, were also investigated.
RESULTS: EE enhanced cognitive function and alleviated anxiety-like behavior in 
SI-5×FAD mice, partially reversing dendritic and synaptic loss and glial cell 
activation in the mPFC. However, it did not mitigate deficits in social and 
cooperative behaviors, hypomyelination, or β-amyloid deposition. Notably, 
group-housed 5×FAD mice raised in the EE exhibited alleviation of the 
aforementioned AD-like phenotypes. Transcriptomic and bioinformatic analyses 
pinpointed Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 7 (Arhgef7) as a pivotal 
mediator of the beneficial effects of physical EE. Arhgef7 overexpression in 
mPFC neurons enhanced dendritic and synaptic growth and alleviated spatial 
cognitive impairments and anxiety-like behavior in SI-5×FAD mice, but it did not 
correct hypomyelination or social behavior deficits. Consistently, knockdown of 
Arhgef7 in mPFC neurons of group-housed 5×FAD mice selectively impaired neuronal 
processes and spatial cognition, and increased anxiety-like behavior. 
Mechanistically, Arhgef7 protected cortical neurons from β-amyloid toxicity by 
activating the Wnt signaling pathway.
CONCLUSION: Arhgef7 in mPFC neurons is essential for the physical components of 
EE selectively alleviating spatial cognitive deficits and anxiety-like behaviors 
in early isolated AD model mice, serving as a potential target for the 
prevention and treatment of AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01797-5
PMCID: PMC12210992
PMID: 40598577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All procedures in this study were performed according to the 
protocol reviewed and approved by the Nanjing Medical University Animal Care and 
Use Committee. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


26. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Jul 1;20(1):77. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00868-3.

Alpha-synuclein seeding amplification assays in Lewy body dementia: a brief 
review.

Bregendahl M(#)(1)(2)(3), Kaya ZB(#)(2), Singer W(4), McLean PJ(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical and Translational Sciences, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo 
Road S, Jacksonville, FL, 32224, USA.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road S, Jacksonville, 
FL, 32224, USA.
(3)Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Mayo Clinic, 200 First 
St. SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, 200 First St. SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, 
USA.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road S, Jacksonville, 
FL, 32224, USA. mclean.pamela@mayo.edu.
(6)Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Mayo Clinic, 200 First 
St. SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. mclean.pamela@mayo.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Lewy body dementia (LBD), which includes dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and 
Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD), is characterized by cognitive decline, sleep 
disturbances, motor dysfunction, and other debilitating clinical symptoms. 
Neuropathologically, LBD is characterized by the progressive accumulation of 
alpha-synuclein (aSYN) in vulnerable cellular populations in the brain. 
Diagnosing LBD is challenging due to the overlap of clinical symptoms with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative disorders with current 
diagnostic tools, including clinical examinations by specialized neurologists 
and brain imaging, limited by accessibility. Taken together, LBD is often 
misdiagnosed, especially at early disease stages. Seed amplification assays to 
detect pathogenic aSYN (aSYN SAAs) are emerging as promising tools to detect 
aSYN pathology in biological specimens. These assays amplify trace amounts of 
misfolded aSYN, enabling their potential detection in brain, CSF, saliva, skin, 
and blood. This review compares the sensitivity and specificity of aSYN SAAs 
across different biological samples and explores the potential of the assay as a 
diagnostic in LBD. We also highlight challenges that will need to be addressed 
going forward if the aSYN SAA is to be widely adopted as a diagnostic test. 
Despite current limitations, aSYN SAAs hold promise for early and precise 
diagnosis, paving the way for targeted treatments that could significantly 
improve patient care and outcomes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00868-3
PMCID: PMC12210522
PMID: 40598304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


27. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Jul 1;20(1):78. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00856-7.

Current strategies in the management of dementia with lewy bodies and future 
directions based on disease pathophysiology.

Erskine D(1), Taylor JP(2).

Author information:
(1)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Biomedical Research Building, 
Newcastle University, Campus for Ageing and Vitality, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE4 
5PL, UK. daniel.erskine@ncl.ac.uk.
(2)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Biomedical Research Building, 
Newcastle University, Campus for Ageing and Vitality, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE4 
5PL, UK.

Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is thought to be the second most common form of 
dementia after Alzheimer’s disease, and is characterised by a combination of 
cognitive, neuropsychiatric and motor symptoms. The present review seeks to 
discuss current strategies for the management of DLB, and future directions for 
novel disease-modifying therapies. Current best practice for the clinical 
management of DLB is based upon therapies that target specific symptom domains 
due to the lack of disease-modifying therapies. Cholinesterase inhibitors are 
the frontline treatment for treating cognitive decline in DLB, whereas the 
treatment of motor symptoms remains challenging due to poor response to 
dopaminergic therapies and the potential for exacerbation of neuropsychiatric 
features. There is emerging evidence suggesting a range of further 
pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapies may be effective in treating 
specific symptom domains of DLB, but further evidence is warranted to 
demonstrate their efficacy. A key challenge in the treatment of DLB is 
incomplete understanding of disease pathophysiology, which has limited attempts 
to develop disease-modifying therapies. In the present article, we discuss the 
multi-faceted nature of DLB neuropathology, from Lewy body pathology to 
mitochondrial dysfunction, and discuss therapies in development that target 
particular aspects of DLB neuropathology. In particular, we highlight 
antibody-based therapies to attenuate protein aggregation, compounds that 
enhance the generation of cellular energy and autophagy-enhancing agents as 
particular areas of promise. Furthermore, we discuss how optimal strategies for 
disease modification will be centred on agents that treat DLB neuropathology 
more holistically, and will be underpinned by a more complete understanding of 
the pathogenic events that underlie the full spectrum of pathological changes 
observed in the DLB brain.

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00856-7
PMCID: PMC12220670
PMID: 40598239

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent: Not 
applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


28. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2025 Jul 1;25(1):226. doi:
10.1186/s12911-025-03040-5.

A dynamic prediction model for predicting the time at which patients with MCI 
progress to AD based on time-dependent covariates.

Wang Y(1), Song Y(1), Zhang C(1), Ren J(1), Xue P(1), Hou Y(2), Chen Z(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health (Guangdong Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Tropical Disease Research), Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Statistics and Data Science, School of Economics, Jinan 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health (Guangdong Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Tropical Disease Research), Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China. zheng-chen@hotmail.com.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Multi-Organ Injury Prevention and Treatment, 
Guangzhou, China. zheng-chen@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is an irreversible neurodegenerative 
disorder that imposes a significant burden on families and society. Timely 
intervention during the transitional stages from Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) 
to AD can help mitigate this issue. The MCI-to-AD conversion time would be 
helpful if it could be predicted. Most studies rely on Cox models, which possess 
certain limitations and do not intuitively forecast the duration until patients 
with MCI progress to AD. Thus we construct a new dynamic prediction model based 
on the conditional restricted mean survival time (cRMST) from a time-scale 
perspective to explore the factors influencing progression to AD in patients 
with MCI and predict the average time required MCI patients to progress to AD at 
different time points in the future.
METHODS: We construct a new two-stage dynamic prediction model (tRMST model) 
based on the conditional restricted mean survival time (cRMST) in combination 
with landmark method to apply in the analysis of the ADNI database.
RESULTS: The results of the ADNI analysis showed that four variables (Education, 
MMSE, ADAS-Cog13 and P-tau) have dynamic effects over time. The C-index and the 
mean prediction error of the cross validation are better than the static RMST 
model.
CONCLUSION: This study presents a time-scale dynamic prediction model that 
effectively leverages longitudinal data to identify the dynamic effects of the 
factors' impact on the outcome over time, thereby assisting physicians in 
personalizing treatment for patients.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12911-025-03040-5
PMCID: PMC12220000
PMID: 40597176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. The data in this study is available from the ADNI 
database. No new clinical data was gathered or used. There is thus no need for 
the ethical approval and consent to participate. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Relevant guidelines and regulations: Not applicable. Competing 
interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


29. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2025 Jul 1;25(1):219. doi:
10.1186/s12911-025-03073-w.

Attention-driven hybrid deep learning and SVM model for early Alzheimer's 
diagnosis using neuroimaging fusion.

Paduvilan AK(1), Livingston GAL(2), Kuppuchamy SK(3), Dhanaraj RK(4), 
Subramanian M(5), Al-Rasheed A(6), Getahun M(7), Soufiene BO(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, GITAM University, Bengaluru, 
Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Bharath Institute of Higher 
Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Saveetha School of 
Engineering, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), 
Saveetha University, Thandalam, Tamil Nadu, India.
(4)Symbiosis Institute of Computer Studies and Research (SICSR), Symbiosis 
International (Deemed University), Pune, India.
(5)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, AMET University, Chennai, 
Tamil Nadu, India.
(6)Department of Information Systems, College of Computer and Information 
Sciences, Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman University, P.O. Box 84428, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Computer Science and Information Technology, College of 
Engineering and Technology, Kebri Dehar University, Kebri Dehar, Ethiopia. 
masreshaggetahun@gmail.com.
(8)PRINCE Laboratory Research, ISITcom, Hammam Sousse, University of Sousse, 
Sousse, Tunisia.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) poses a significant global health challenge, 
necessitating early and accurate diagnosis to enable timely interventions. AD is 
a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that affects millions worldwide and is 
one of the leading causes of cognitive impairment in older adults. Early 
diagnosis is critical for enabling effective treatment strategies, slowing 
disease progression, and improving the quality of life for patients. Existing 
diagnostic methods often struggle with limited sensitivity, overfitting, and 
reduced reliability due to inadequate feature extraction, imbalanced datasets, 
and suboptimal model architectures. This study addresses these gaps by 
introducing an innovative methodology that combines SVM with Deep Learning (DL) 
to improve the classification performance of AD. Deep learning models extract 
high-level imaging features which are then concatenated with SVM kernels in a 
late-fusion ensemble. This hybrid design leverages deep representations for 
pattern recognition and SVM's robustness on small sample sets. This study 
provides a necessary tool for early-stage identification of possible cases, so 
enhancing the management and treatment options. This is attained by precisely 
classifying the disease from neuroimaging data. The approach integrates advanced 
data pre-processing, dynamic feature optimization, and attention-driven learning 
mechanisms to enhance interpretability and robustness. The research leverages a 
dataset of MRI and PET imaging, integrating novel fusion techniques to extract 
key biomarkers indicative of cognitive decline. Unlike prior approaches, this 
method effectively mitigates the challenges of data sparsity and dimensionality 
reduction while improving generalization across diverse datasets. Comparative 
analysis highlights a 15% improvement in accuracy, a 12% reduction in false 
positives, and a 10% increase in F1-score against state-of-the-art models such 
as HNC and MFNNC. The proposed method significantly outperforms existing 
techniques across metrics like accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, and 
computational efficiency, achieving an overall accuracy of 98.5%.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12911-025-03073-w
PMCID: PMC12210430
PMID: 40597079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


30. BMC Neurol. 2025 Jul 1;25(1):260. doi: 10.1186/s12883-025-04278-2.

Integrated genetic analysis of Alzheimer's disease and stroke subtypes: insights 
from LDSC, PLACO, and MR studies.

Long Y(1), Liu J(2), Guo J(2), Jiang J(1), Wang X(3), Sun R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, No. 23 Youzheng Street, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang 
Province, 150001, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, No. 23 Youzheng Street, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang 
Province, 150001, China.
(3)Department of Ultrasound, The First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, No. 23 Youzheng Street, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang 
Province, 150001, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, No. 23 Youzheng Street, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang 
Province, 150001, China. ruohan.sun@hrbmu.edu.cn.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate the genetic relationship between 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and stroke, including its subtypes.
METHODS: The Linkage Disequilibrium Score Regression (LDSC) for heritability and 
genetic correlations, Polygenic Likelihood Ratio under a Composite Null 
Hypothesis (PLACO) method for pleiotropic loci and locus, and Functional maps 
and annotations from genome-wide association studies (FUMA) for function 
analysis of multi-effect loci, multi-marker analysis of genoMic annotation 
(MAGMA) for gene tissue specificity, Mendelian Randomization (MR) analyses for 
causal relationships between AD and five stroke subtypes were performed through 
Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) heritability enrichments and causal 
associations were analyzed using comprehensive GWAS data.
RESULTS: Manhattan plots revealed pleiotropic SNPs mainly on chromosomes 11 and 
19, with additional loci on chromosomes 1, 2, and 3 for specific subgroups. Key 
genes like DEDD, UFC1, USP21, affecting both AD and stroke subtypes, were 
enriched in brain tissues, highlighting shared mechanisms. Stratified LD score 
regression showed overlaps in brain regions such as substantia nigra and spinal 
cord. MR analysis indicated AD as a risk factor for LAS and AS but protective 
for cerebral embolism stroke (CES), supported by consistent causal effect 
estimates without publication bias. This study reveals that AD shares genetic 
factors with multiple stroke subtypes, notably in brain tissues, impacting their 
etiology and potential treatments.
CONCLUSION: Overall, our study revealed that AD shares genetic factors with 
multiple stroke subtypes, notably in brain tissues. MR analysis indicates AD is 
a risk factor for LAS and AS, but protective for CES.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12883-025-04278-2
PMCID: PMC12211776
PMID: 40596977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


31. Commun Biol. 2025 Jul 1;8(1):971. doi: 10.1038/s42003-025-08368-2.

Opposing role of phagocytic receptors MERTK and AXL in Progranulin deficient 
FTD.

Clelland CD(#)(1)(2), Fan L(#)(3), Saloner R(4), Etchegaray JI(5), Altobelli 
CR(6), Salomonsson S(7), Maltos AM(5), Sachdev A(5), Zhu J(3), Lee SI(3), Li 
Y(5), Zhou Y(5), Le D(5), Wang C(5), Carling G(3), Kodama L(5), Sayed F(5), 
Perez-Bermejo JA(5), Geier EG(7)(4), Yokoyama JS(7)(4), Rosen H(4), Nana AL(4), 
Spina S(4), Grinberg LT(4), Seeley WW(4), Elahi F(4), Boxer AL(4), Arkin MR(6), 
Gan L(8).

Author information:
(1)Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of California San Francisco, 
San Francisco, CA, USA. claire.clelland@ucsf.edu.
(2)Memory & Aging Center, Department of Neurology, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA. claire.clelland@ucsf.edu.
(3)Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research Institute, Brain and Mind 
Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Memory & Aging Center, Department of Neurology, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(5)Gladstone Institutes, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Small Molecule Discovery Center; 
University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(7)Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of California San Francisco, 
San Francisco, CA, USA.
(8)Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research Institute, Brain and Mind 
Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA. 
lig2033@med.cornell.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Genetic mutations in the progranulin gene, GRN, cause frontotemporal dementia 
and a lysosomal storage disorder. Using single-nuclei RNA sequencing of the 
post-mortem brain tissue from adult heterozygous pathogenic granulin variant 
(GRN+/-) carriers we find dysregulation of microglia, phagocytosis and the 
phagocytic receptors MERTK and AXL. Exogenous progranulin regulates MERTK and 
AXL RNA expression in human microglia induced from iPSCs irrespective of GRN 
mutation status, without directly binding to MERTK or AXL proteins. We generated 
double knock-out mice and find that constitutive homozygous loss of Grn and 
Mertk (Grn-/-;Mertk-/-) rescued microglial disease signature while constitutive 
homozygous loss of Grn and Axl (Grn-/-;Axl-/-) worsened the microglial disease 
signature and increased lipofuscin. Lower CSF MERTK but not AXL is associated 
with lower progranulin levels. Furthermore, CSF MERTK is lower in symptomatic 
but not presymptomatic FTD patients with genetic mutations (GRN, C9ORF72, and 
MAPT) whereas AXL does not change between disease state and control. These data 
explain in part the inflammation seen in GRN-FTD and are applicable to other 
inflammatory states in which PGRN, MERTK and AXL play regulatory roles beyond 
neurodegenerative diseases. The interaction between GRN, MERTK, and AXL opens 
potential new therapeutic avenues to intervene on this inflammatory axis.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s42003-025-08368-2
PMCID: PMC12218935
PMID: 40596721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: C.D.C. is a founder, with 
equity, in Ciznor Co. L.G. is founder and equity holder of Aeton Therapeutics 
Inc. S.Sp. received consulting honoraria from Techspert.io, Precision Xtract, 
Acsel Health, and Putnam Associates. E.G.G. is employed by Transposon 
Therapeutics which is conducting clinical trials in PSP and C9-ALS/FTD 
(unrelated to this work); employment commenced after his contribution to this 
project. H.R. received consulting fees from Eisai and Genentech. L.T.G. receives 
research support from Genentech Inc. and a gift from Pivotal Life Science. 
L.T.G. received honoraria for educational activities from Medscape Education, 
Celdara Medical and consulting honoraria from Guidepoint Insights. W.W.S. is a 
paid consultant to Biogen Idec, Inc. and received speaker honoraria from Verge 
Genomics. The other authors declare no competing interests.


32. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 1;16(1):6003. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61054-z.

Proteomic analysis of Down syndrome cerebrospinal fluid compared to late-onset 
and autosomal dominant Alzheimer´s disease.

Montoliu-Gaya L(#)(1), Bian S(#)(2), Dammer EB(#)(3)(4), Alcolea D(5), Sauer 
M(1), Martá-Ariza M(6)(7)(8), Ashton NJ(1), Belbin O(5), Fuchs J(9), Watson 
CM(4)(10), Ping L(3)(4)(10), Duong DM(3)(4), Nilsson J(1), Barroeta I(5), 
Lantero-Rodriguez J(1), Videla L(5), Benejam B(5), Roberts BR(3)(4), Blennow 
K(1)(11), Seyfried NT(3)(4)(10), Levey AI(4)(10), Carmona-Iragui M(5), Gobom 
J(1), Lleó A(5), Wisniewski T(6)(7)(12)(13), Zetterberg 
H(1)(11)(14)(15)(16)(17), Fortea J(18), Johnson ECB(19)(20).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Rollins School of Public 
Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(4)Goizueta Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(5)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i 
Sant Pau, Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau (IIB Sant Pau), Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Department of Neurology, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Center for Cognitive Neurology, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, New York, 
NY, USA.
(8)Institut de Neurociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(9)Proteomics Core Facility at Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(10)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(11)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(12)Department of Pathology, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(13)Department of Psychiatry, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY, 
USA.
(14)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Institute of Neurology, UCL, 
London, UK.
(15)UK Dementia Research Institute, UCL, London, UK.
(16)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(17)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(18)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i 
Sant Pau, Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau (IIB Sant Pau), Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. jfortea@santpau.cat.
(19)Goizueta Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA. erik.johnson@emory.edu.
(20)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA. erik.johnson@emory.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Almost all individuals with Down Syndrome (DS) develop Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
by mid to late life. However, the degree to which AD in DS shares pathological 
changes with sporadic late-onset AD (LOAD) and autosomal dominant AD (ADAD) 
beyond core AD biomarkers such as amyloid-β (Aβ) and tau is unknown. Here, we 
used proteomics of cerebrospinal fluid from individuals with DS (n = 229) in the 
Down Alzheimer Barcelona Neuroimaging Initiative (DABNI) cohort to assess the 
evolution of AD pathophysiology from asymptomatic to dementia stages and 
compared the proteomic biomarker changes in DS to those observed in LOAD and 
ADAD. Although many proteomic alterations were shared across DS, LOAD, and ADAD, 
DS demonstrated more severe changes in immune-related proteins, extracellular 
matrix pathways, and plasma proteins likely related to blood-brain barrier 
dysfunction compared to LOAD. These changes were present in young adults with DS 
prior to the onset of Aβ or tau pathology, suggesting they are associated with 
trisomy 21 and may serve as risk factors for DSAD. DSAD showed an earlier 
increase in markers of axonal and white matter pathology and earlier changes in 
markers potentially associated with cerebral amyloid angiopathy compared to 
ADAD. The unique features of DSAD may have important implications for treatment 
strategies in this population.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61054-z
PMCID: PMC12214755
PMID: 40595720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: E.C.B.J. has served on an 
advisory board for Eli Lilly and has received royalties from EmTheraPro (outside 
submitted work). J.F. reported receiving personal fees for service on the 
advisory boards, adjudication committees or speaker honoraria from AC Immune, 
Adamed, Alzheon, Biogen, Eisai, Esteve, Fujirebio, Ionis, Laboratorios Carnot, 
Life Molecular Imaging, Lilly, Lundbeck, Perha, Roche and outside the submitted 
work. O.B., D.A., A.L., and J.F. report holding a patent for markers of 
synaptopathy in neurodegenerative disease (WO2019175379, applicant Fundació 
Institut de Recerca de L’hospital de la Santa Creu, Sant Pau, “Markers of 
synaptopathy in neurodegenerative diseases”, EP19709749.6, priority date 
16/3/2018, patent pending, inventors O Belbin, A Lleó, A Bayés, J Fortea, and D 
Alcolea, licensed to ADX NeuroSciences, N.V. EPI8382175.0 to develop antibodies 
and immunoassays for Calsyntenin-1, GluR2, GluR4, Neuroligin-2, neurexin-2a, 
neurexin-3a, syntaxin-1b, thy-1, tenascin-r, and vamp-2). N.T.S. and A.I.L. are 
founders of EmTheraPro (outside submitted work). H.Z. has served at scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZPath, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in 
symposia sponsored by Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Alzecure, Biogen, and Roche, and 
is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a 
part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). K.B. has 
served as a consultant, on advisory boards, or at data monitoring committees for 
Abcam, Axon, BioArctic, Biogen, and JOMDD/Shimadzu. Julius Clinical, Lilly, 
MagQu, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Pharmatrophix, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and 
Siemens Healthineers, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, 
outside the work presented in this paper. T.W. has served as a consultant or on 
data monitoring committees for Acumen, Biogen, Grifols, Lilly and ProMIS 
Neurosciences. The remaining authors declare no competing interests.


33. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 1;16(1):5621. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-60746-w.

Connexin43 hemichannel blockade turns microglia neuroprotective and mitigates 
cognitive deficits in a mouse model of amyloidosis.

Su Y(1)(2), Li H(1)(2), Zhang W(3), Tao S(3), Wang Q(1)(2), Zhang X(3), Zhou 
M(4), Huang X(1), Wang C(1)(2), Tang Y(5), Chen H(6), Verkhratsky 
A(7)(8)(9)(10)(11), Zha Z(12), Niu J(13)(14), Yi C(15)(16)(17)(18).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre, Seventh Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, 
Shenzhen, China.
(2)Department of Histology and Embryology, Third Military Medical University, 
Chongqing, China.
(3)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, 
Hefei, China.
(4)Department of Central Laboratory, Qianjiang Hospital, Chongqing University, 
Qianjiang, Chongqing, China.
(5)International Joint Research Centre on Purinergic Signalling/School of Health 
and Rehabilitation, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, 
China.
(6)School of Life Sciences, Faculty of Science, University of Technology Sydney, 
Ultimo, Australia.
(7)Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK.
(8)Department of Neurosciences, University of the Basque Country, Leioa, 
Bizkaia, Spain.
(9)IKERBASQUE Basque Foundation for Science, Bilbao, Spain.
(10)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Digestive Cancer Research, Shenzhen, 
China.
(11)Department of Forensic Analytical Toxicology, School of Forensic Medicine, 
China Medical University, Shenyang, China.
(12)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, 
Hefei, China. zbzha@hfut.edu.cn.
(13)Department of Histology and Embryology, Third Military Medical University, 
Chongqing, China. jianqinniu@tmmu.edu.cn.
(14)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Neurobiology, Chongqing, China. 
jianqinniu@tmmu.edu.cn.
(15)Research Centre, Seventh Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, 
Shenzhen, China. yichj@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(16)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Digestive Cancer Research, Shenzhen, 
China. yichj@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(17)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Function and Disease, 
Guangzhou, China. yichj@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(18)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Chinese Medicine Active Substance Screening and 
Translational Research, Shenzhen, China. yichj@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the leading cause of senile dementia, lacks effective 
therapies. While microglia are central to AD pathology, key therapeutic targets 
remain unclear. Here we identify microglial connexin43 (Cx43) hemichannels as a 
regulator of microglial reactivity in AD, positioning them as a promising 
therapeutic target. Post-mortem AD patient tissue showed elevated Cx43 levels in 
periplaque microglia. In the APPswe/PS1dE9 (APP/PS1) mouse model of amyloidosis, 
we demonstrated that microglial Cx43 hemichannels correlated with microglial 
malfunction, which in turn exacerbated β-amyloid pathology. Ablation of 
microglial Cx43 hemichannels by genetic knockout shifts microglia to a 
neuroprotective phenotype, enhancing the microglia-plaque interaction while 
suppressing neurotoxicity, thereby mitigating the progression of AD-like 
pathology. We developed TAT-Cx43@LNPs, a Cx43 hemichannel-targeting peptide 
delivered by a lipid nanoparticle system, which effectively delayed and rescued 
β-amyloid-related neuropathology and cognitive impairment in APP/PS1 mice. This 
study provides evidence for advancing Cx43 hemichannel targeting therapy into 
clinical trials.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-60746-w
PMCID: PMC12219535
PMID: 40595567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


34. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 1;16(1):5812. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-60370-8.

Variable and interactive effects of Sex, APOE ε4 and TREM2 on the deposition of 
tau in entorhinal and neocortical regions.

Giorgio J(#)(1)(2), Jonson C(#)(3)(4)(5)(6), Wang Y(#)(7), Yokoyama JS(6)(8), 
Wang J(9), Jagust WJ(10); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, 
94720, USA. jgiorgio@berkeley.edu.
(2)School of Psychological Sciences, College of Engineering, Science and the 
Environment, University of Newcastle, Newcastle, NSW, 2308, Australia. 
jgiorgio@berkeley.edu.
(3)Center for Alzheimer's and Related Dementias, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
(4)DataTecnica LLC, Washington, DC, 20037, USA.
(5)Pharmaceutical Sciences and Pharmacogenomics Graduate Program, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, 94158, USA.
(6)Memory and Aging Center, Department of Neurology, Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, 
94158, USA.
(7)Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, The University of Iowa, Iowa 
City, IA, USA.
(8)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(9)Division of Biostatistics, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, 
94720, USA.
(10)Department of Neuroscience, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, 
94720, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 Aug 09:rs.3.rs-4804430. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-4804430/v1.

The canonical Alzheimer's Disease (AD) pathological cascade posits that the 
accumulation of amyloid beta (Aβ) is the initiating event, accelerating the 
accumulation of tau in the entorhinal cortex (EC), which subsequently spreads 
into the neocortex. Here in a multi-cohort study (ADNI, A4, HABS-HD) of 1354 
participants with multimodal imaging and genetic information we queried how 
genetic variation affects these stages of the AD cascade. We observed that 
females and APOE-ε4 homozygotes are more susceptible to the effects of Aβ on the 
primary accumulation of tau, with greater EC tau for a given level of Aβ. 
Furthermore, we observed for individuals who have rare risk variants in TREM2 
and/or APOE-ε4 homozygotes there was a greater spread of primary tau from the EC 
into the neocortex. These findings offer insights into the function of sex, APOE 
and microglia in AD progression and have implications for determining 
personalised treatment with drugs targeting Aβ and tau.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-60370-8
PMCID: PMC12214702
PMID: 40595476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: W.J. serves as a consultant 
to Biogen, Genentech, CuraSen, Bioclinica, and Novartis. J.S.Y. serves on the 
scientific advisory board for the Epstein Family Alzheimer’s Research 
Collaboration. All other authors declare no competing financial interests.


35. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 2;15(1):22488. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-05888-z.

Optimizing the early diagnosis of neurological disorders through the application 
of machine learning for predictive analytics in medical imaging.

Sadu VB(1), Bagam S(2), Naved M(3), Andluru SKR(4), Ramineni K(5), Alharbi 
MG(6), Sengan S(7), Khadhar Moideen R(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological 
University, Kakinada, 533003, Andhra Pradesh, India.
(2)Software Development Team Lead at Paycom, Master of Computer Science, 
Oklahoma Christian University, Edmond, Oklahoma, 73013, USA.
(3)Department of Business Analytics, Jaipuria Institute of Management, Noida, 
Uttar Pradesh, 201309, India.
(4)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Koneru Lakshmaiah Education 
Foundation, Hyderabad, 500075, Telangana, India.
(5)School of Engineering, Anurag University, Hyderabad, Telangana, 500088, 
India.
(6)Department of Computer Science, College of Computer Engineering and Sciences, 
Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz University, Al-Kharj, 16278, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, PSN College of Engineering 
and Technology, Tirunelveli, 627451, Tamil Nadu, India. sudhasengan@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, Mahendra Engineering 
College, Mallasamudram, Namakkal, Tamil Nadu, 637503, India. 
ksrahmaan2204@gmail.com.

Early diagnosis of Neurological Disorders (ND) such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
and Brain Tumors (BT) can be highly challenging since these diseases cause minor 
changes in the brain's anatomy. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is a vital tool 
for diagnosing and visualizing these ND; however, standard techniques contingent 
upon human analysis can be inaccurate, require a long-time, and detect 
early-stage symptoms necessary for effective treatment. Spatial Feature 
Extraction (FE) has been improved by Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and 
hybrid models, both of which are changes in Deep Learning (DL). However, these 
analysis methods frequently fail to accept temporal dynamics, which is 
significant for a complete test. The present investigation introduces the 
STGCN-ViT, a hybrid model that integrates CNN + Spatial-Temporal Graph 
Convolutional Networks (STGCN) + Vision Transformer (ViT) components to address 
these gaps. The model causes the reference to EfficientNet-B0 for FE in space, 
STGCN for FE in time, and ViT for FE using AM. By applying the Open Access 
Series of Imaging Studies (OASIS) and Harvard Medical School (HMS) benchmark 
datasets, the recommended approach proved effective in the investigations, with 
Group A attaining an accuracy of 93.56%, a precision of 94.41% and an Area under 
the Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve (AUC-ROC) score of 94.63%. Compared 
with standard and transformer-based models, the model attains better results for 
Group B, with an accuracy of 94.52%, precision of 95.03%, and AUC-ROC score of 
95.24%. Those results support the model's use in real-time medical applications 
by providing proof of the probability of accurate but early-stage ND diagnosis.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-05888-z
PMCID: PMC12217182
PMID: 40594215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


36. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 1;15(1):20448. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-04658-1.

Differential effects of S-allyl cysteine and cannabidiol on enterocytic and 
plasma amyloid-β in db/db diabetic mice.

Sharif A(1)(2)(3), Majimbi M(1)(2), Mamo J(1)(2)(4), Lam V(1)(2)(4), Nesbit 
M(1), Takechi R(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Curtin Medical Research Institute, Curtin 
University, Perth, WA, Australia.
(2)Perron Institute for Neurological and Translational Research, Perth, WA, 
Australia.
(3)Curtin Medical School, Faculty of Health Sciences, Curtin University, Perth, 
WA, Australia.
(4)School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, Curtin University, 
Perth, WA, Australia.
(5)Faculty of Health Sciences, Curtin Medical Research Institute, Curtin 
University, Perth, WA, Australia. r.takechi@curtin.edu.au.
(6)Perron Institute for Neurological and Translational Research, Perth, WA, 
Australia. r.takechi@curtin.edu.au.
(7)School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, Curtin University, 
Perth, WA, Australia. r.takechi@curtin.edu.au.

Peripheral amyloid-beta (Aβ), including those in bloodstream and intestine, is 
implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Additionally, 
diabetes and insulin resistance are associated with the impairment of Aβ 
metabolism and an increased risk of developing cognitive decline and AD. 
Previous research has demonstrated the neuroprotective effects of cannabidiol 
(CBD) and S-allyl-cysteine (SAC); however, their impact on Aβ levels in the 
context of diabetes remains unexplored. 5-week-old diabetic db/db mice underwent 
23 weeks of dietary interventions with SAC, CBD, or a combination of SAC and 
CBD. Immunofluorescent imaging quantified enterocytic Aβ abundance and plasma 
concentrations of Aβ42, Aβ40, and Aβ oligomers were measured using ELISA. Our 
results reveal a progressive increase in enterocytic Aβ expression in db/db 
mice, which was mitigated by SAC administration. In contrast, CBD treatment 
alone and in combination with SAC, increased enterocytic Aβ abundance and 
elevated plasma Aβ42 concentrations. The combination therapy reduced Aβ 
oligomers. These findings suggest that the neuroprotective effects of SAC are 
partially mediated by its impact on peripheral Aβ levels. CBD could potentially 
exacerbate Aβ accumulation in diabetes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-04658-1
PMCID: PMC12214909
PMID: 40593940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval: All experimental procedures in 
this study were approved by the Curtin Animal Ethics Committee (Approval No. ARE 
2018-19) and conducted in accordance with the Australian Code for the Care and 
Use of Animals for Scientific Purposes. Consent for publication: Not applicable.


37. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 1;15(1):21632. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-04129-7.

Integrative machine learning and molecular simulation approaches identify GSK3β 
inhibitors for neurodegenerative disease therapy.

Alhassan HH(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Jouf University, Sakaka, 72341, Al-Jouf, Saudi Arabia. 
h.alhasan@ju.edu.sa.
(2)King Salman Centre for Disability Research, Riyadh, 11614, Saudi Arabia. 
h.alhasan@ju.edu.sa.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs), including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
Parkinson's disease (PD), are a growing global health concern, especially among 
the elderly, posing significant challenges to well-being and survival. GSK3β, a 
serine/threonine kinase, is a key molecular player in the pathogenesis of NDDs. 
Dysregulated activity of GSK3β has been linked to neurodegenerative 
complications. Targeting GSK3β with active-site-specific inhibitors presents a 
promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating its pathological effects and 
potentially intercepting NDD progression. This study aimed to identify potential 
GSK3β inhibitors through an integrated in silico approach combining machine 
learning (ML)-based virtual screening, molecular docking, molecular dynamics 
(MD) simulations, and MM/GBSA binding free energy calculations. ML models were 
trained using known GSK3β inhibitors from BindingDB. Among all models, the 
Random Forest (RF) algorithm had the best prediction accuracy, with a value of 
0.6832 on the test set and 0.7432 on the training set, and was employed to 
screen the target library of 11,032 phytochemicals. The ML-based screening 
identified 2,898 compounds with potential inhibitory action against GSK3β. 
Further screening based on Lipinski's Rule of Five gave 221 drug-like 
candidates. These compounds were further evaluated for GSK3β interaction via 
molecular docking. The analyses found ZINC136900288, ZINC7267, and ZINC519549 
bind strongly and interact well with key residues in GSK3β active site with 
their binding scores being - 9.9, -8.8, and - 8.7 kcal/mol, respectively. MD 
simulations were conducted for both ligand-bound and apo GSK3β to assess 
structural stability. The simulation results showed that the ligand bound 
complexes were structurally stable with less fluctuations and higher 
conformational stability. In addition, (MM/GBSA) binding free energy 
calculations were carried out to quantify the affinity of the candidate 
compounds, and the candidate compound ZINC136900288 has the strongest binding 
affinity (-24.86 kcal/mol) of the three. Notably, these identified compounds 
feature novel chemical scaffolds that are structurally distinct from previously 
reported GSK3β inhibitors, emphasizing the originality and therapeutic potential 
of this study. These results show that ZINC136900288 may serve as suitable GSK3β 
inhibitors. Nevertheless, the efficacy and safety of these compounds need to be 
further validated experimentally and further studied in vivo for possible 
therapeutic application in NDDs.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-04129-7
PMCID: PMC12217229
PMID: 40593894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


38. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 1;16(1):5653. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-60806-1.

Glial reactivity correlates with synaptic dysfunction across aging and 
Alzheimer's disease.

Rohden F(1)(2), Ferreira PCL(1), Bellaver B(1), Ferrari-Souza JP(1)(2), Aguzzoli 
CS(1)(3)(4), Soares C(1)(2), Abbas S(1), Zalzale H(1), Povala G(1), Lussier 
FZ(1), Leffa DT(1), Bauer-Negrini G(1), Rahmouni N(5)(6), Tissot C(1)(5)(6), 
Therriault J(5)(6), Servaes S(5)(6), Stevenson J(5)(6), Benedet AL(7)(8), Ashton 
NJ(7)(8)(9)(10), Karikari TK(1)(7)(8), Tudorascu DL(1)(11), Zetterberg 
H(7)(8)(12)(13)(14)(15), Blennow K(7)(8), Zimmer ER(2)(3)(16)(17), Souza D(2), 
Rosa-Neto P(5)(6), Pascoal TA(18)(19).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Biochemistry, Universidade Federal 
do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(3)Brain Institute of Rio Grande do Sul, PUCRS, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, 
Brazil.
(4)Global Brain Health Institute, University of California, San Francisco, USA.
(5)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill University Research Centre for 
Studies in Aging, Alzheimer's Disease Research Unit, Douglas Hospital Research 
Institute, Le Centre intégré universitaire de santé et de services sociaux 
(CIUSSS) de l'Ouest-de-l'Île-de-Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the 
University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(9)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(10)Department of Old Age Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & 
Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
(11)Department of Biostatistics, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(12)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, London, UK.
(13)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(14)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
China.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(16)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Pharmacology and Therapeuctis, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, 
Brazil.
(17)Department of Pharmacology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto 
Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(18)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. pascoalt@upmc.edu.
(19)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. pascoalt@upmc.edu.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 Aug 12:rs.3.rs-4782732. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-4782732/v1.

Previous studies suggest glial and neuronal changes may trigger synaptic 
dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the link between their markers and 
synaptic abnormalities in the living brain remains unclear. We investigated the 
association between glial reactivity and synaptic dysfunction biomarkers in 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 478 individuals in cognitively unimpaired (CU) 
and cognitively impaired (CI) individuals. We measured amyloid-β (Aβ), 
phosphorylated tau (pTau181), astrocyte reactivity (GFAP), microglial activation 
(sTREM2), and synaptic markers (GAP43, neurogranin). CSF GFAP levels were 
associated with presynaptic and postsynaptic dysfunction, independent of 
cognitive status or Aβ presence. CSF sTREM2 levels were related to presynaptic 
markers in cognitively unimpaired and impaired Aβ+ individuals, and to 
postsynaptic markers in cognitively impaired Aβ+ individuals. Notably, CSF pTau 
mediated the relationships between GFAP or sTREM2 and synaptic dysfunction. Our 
findings, validated in two independent cohorts (TRIAD and ADNI), reveal a 
distinct pattern of glial contribution to synaptic degeneration.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-60806-1
PMCID: PMC12215965
PMID: 40593718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Therriault has served as a 
paid consultant for the Neurotorium educational platform and Alzheon. Ashton 
received payment for lectures from Biogen, BioArctic, Eli-Lilly, and Quanterix. 
Karikari reported receiving grants from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
and personal fees from the University of Wisconsin–Madison and the University of 
Pennsylvania outside the submitted work. Additionally, he holds a patent for 
WO2020193500A1. Zetterberg received personal fees from multiple companies, 
including AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, 
Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, 
LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave. He also received personal fees for 
sponsored lectures from Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, and Roche outside the submitted work. Furthermore, Zetterberg is a 
cofounder of Brain Biomarker Solutions, part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program, outside the submitted work. Blennow has served as a consultant and on 
advisory boards for Acumen, ALZPath, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Eli Lilly and Co, 
Moleac Pte Ltd, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens 
Healthineers. He has also served on data monitoring committees for Julius 
Clinical and Novartis, given lectures, produced educational materials, and 
participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, 
Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics. Additionally, he is a cofounder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions, part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the submitted 
work. Zimmer served on the Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) of Novo Nordisk, 
serves on the SAB of Next Innovative Therapeutics (Nintx), and is a cofounder of 
MASIMA. Rosa-Neto served on the SAB of Novo Nordisk, Eisai, and Eli Lilly, and 
acted as a consultant for Eisai and Cerveau Radiopharmaceuticals. The remaining 
authors declare no competing interests.


39. Insights Imaging. 2025 Jul 1;16(1):146. doi: 10.1186/s13244-025-02026-1.

Developments in MRI radiomics research for vascular cognitive impairment.

Chen X(1)(2), Luo X(3), Chen L(3), Liu H(3), Yin X(2), Chen Z(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Shanghai for Science and Technology, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Jiujiang University, 
Jiujiang, China.
(3)Department of Imaging, Affiliated Hospital of Jiujiang University, Jiujiang, 
China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Jiujiang University, 
Jiujiang, China. zychenjj@jju.edu.cn.

Vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) is an umbrella term for diseases associated 
with cognitive decline induced by substantive brain damage following 
pathological changes in the cerebrovascular system. The primary clinical 
manifestations include behavioral abnormalities and diminished learning and 
memory cognitive functions. If the location and extent of brain injury are not 
identified early and therapeutic interventions are not promptly administered, it 
may lead to irreversible cognitive impairment. Therefore, the early diagnosis of 
VCI is crucial for its prevention and treatment. Prior to the onset of cognitive 
impairment in VCI, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) radiomics can be utilized 
for early assessment and diagnosis, thereby guiding clinicians in providing 
precise treatment for patients, which holds significant potential for 
development. This article reviews the classification of VCI, the concept of 
radiomics, the application of MRI radiomics in VCI, and the limitations of 
radiomics in the context of advancements in its application within the central 
nervous system. CRITICAL RELEVANCE STATEMENT: This article explores how MRI 
radiomics can be used to detect VCI early, enhancing clinical radiology practice 
by offering a reliable method for prediction, diagnosis, and identification, 
which also promotes standardization in research and integration of disciplines. 
KEY POINTS: MRI radiomics can predict VCI early. MRI radiomics can diagnose VCI. 
MRI radiomics distinguishes VCI from Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13244-025-02026-1
PMCID: PMC12214101
PMID: 40593438

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.


40. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 1;16(1):5948. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-60903-1.

Integrated dopamine sensing and 40 Hz hippocampal stimulation improves cognitive 
performance in Alzheimer's mouse models.

Lv S(1)(2), Mo F(1)(2), Xu Z(1)(2), Wang Y(1)(2), Liu Y(1)(2), Han M(1)(2), Duan 
Y(1)(2), Jing L(1)(2), Kong F(1)(2), Jia Q(1)(2), Li M(1)(2), Xu W(1)(2), Jiao 
P(1)(2), Wang M(1)(2), Liu J(1)(2), Luo J(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2), Fan Z(1)(2), Song 
Y(3)(4), Wu Y(5)(6), Cai X(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Transducer Technology, Aerospace Information Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100190, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Transducer Technology, Aerospace Information Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100190, China. 
ylsong@mail.ie.ac.cn.
(4)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China. 
ylsong@mail.ie.ac.cn.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Transducer Technology, Aerospace Information Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100190, China. 
wyr@mail.ie.ac.cn.
(6)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China. 
wyr@mail.ie.ac.cn.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Transducer Technology, Aerospace Information Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100190, China. 
xxcai@mail.ie.ac.cn.
(8)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China. 
xxcai@mail.ie.ac.cn.

Hippocampal degeneration and reduced dopamine levels in Alzheimer's disease are 
associated with severe memory and cognitive impairments. However, the lack of 
multifunctional in situ neural chips has posed challenges for integrated 
investigations of Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology, dopamine dynamics, and 
neural activity. Therefore, we developed NeuroRevive-FlexChip, a flexible neural 
interface capable of precise electrical modulation and simultaneous in situ 
monitoring of dopamine levels and neural activity. In this study, the 
NeuroRevive-FlexChip demonstrates improved electrochemical detection sensitivity 
and modulation efficiency. Preliminary observations in APP/PS1 mice indicate 
that implantation of the chip in the hippocampal CA1 region, combined with 40 Hz 
stimulation, may contribute to the restoration of dopamine release, a reduction 
in neuronal hyper-synchronization, and a shift toward more stable firing 
patterns. These effects appear to be modulated by dopamine-related mechanisms. 
Furthemore, 40 Hz stimulation was observed to  correlate with reduction in Aβ42 
deposition and modest improvements in spatial cognition performance, as assessed 
by the Y-maze test. These findings highlight the potential of 
NeuroRevive-FlexChip as a research tool for investigating the mechanisms of 
40 Hz stimulation in Alzheimer's disease models. Further studies could explore 
its utility in clarifying the relationship between dopamine dysfunction, neural 
activity, and amyloid pathology. While these early results are promising, 
additional preclinical and translational research will be necessary to assess 
the therapeutic potential of this approach for neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-60903-1
PMCID: PMC12217251
PMID: 40592843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: S.L., X.C., Y.S., F.M., 
L.J., W.X. are involved in the patent ‘Flexible Neural Electrode with Multilayer 
Bidirectional Signal Transmission Structure and Its Fabrication Method’. The 
other authors declare no competing interests. Ethics: All animal care and 
procedures adhered to the guidelines set by the Institutional Animal Care and 
Use Committee at the Aerospace Information Research Institute, Chinese Academy 
of Science (AIRCAS), and were approved by the Beijing Laboratory Animal Care 
Association and the AIRCAS Animal Care and Use Committee under approval number 
AIRCAS-202103-1.


41. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;12(8):100256. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100256.  Epub 2025 Jun 30.

Blood-brain barrier water exchange and paramagnetic susceptibility alterations 
during anti-amyloid therapy: preliminary MRI findings.

Uchida Y(1), Kano Y(2), Kan H(3), Sakurai K(4), Morita H(5), Akagawa Y(6), 
Matsukawa N(7), Oishi K(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, 208 Traylor Building, 720 Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, MD 
21205, USA; Department of Neurology, Nagoya City University Graduate School of 
Medical Sciences, 1, Kawasumi, Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Aichi 467-8601, 
Japan. Electronic address: yuchida2@jhmi.edu.
(2)Department of Neurology, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical 
Sciences, 1, Kawasumi, Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Aichi 467-8601, Japan; 
Department of Neurology, Toyokawa City Hospital, 23, Noji, Yawata-cho, Toyokawa, 
Aichi 442-0857, Japan.
(3)Department of Integrated Health Sciences, Nagoya University Graduate School 
of Medicine, 1-1-20, Daiko-Minami, Higashi-ku, Nagoya, Aichi 461-8673, Japan.
(4)Department of Radiology, National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, 
Morioka-cho, Obu, Aichi 474-8511, Japan.
(5)Department of Neurology, Toyokawa City Hospital, 23, Noji, Yawata-cho, 
Toyokawa, Aichi 442-0857, Japan.
(6)Department of Radiology, Toyokawa City Hospital, 23, Noji, Yawata-cho, 
Toyokawa, Aichi 442-0857, Japan.
(7)Department of Neurology, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical 
Sciences, 1, Kawasumi, Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Aichi 467-8601, Japan.
(8)Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, 208 Traylor Building, 720 Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, MD 
21205, USA; The Richman Family Precision Medicine Center of Excellence in 
Alzheimer's Disease, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100256
PMCID: PMC12413729
PMID: 40592633

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Yuto Uchida reports financial 
support was provided by Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. Hirohito Kan 
reports financial support was provided by Japan Society for the Promotion of 
Science. Yuto Uchida reports financial support was provided by Alzheimer’s 
Association. Yuto Uchida reports financial support was provided by National 
Institute on Aging. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no 
known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


42. J Affect Disord. 2025 Dec 1;390:119790. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.119790. Epub 
2025 Jun 30.

Depressive symptom factors and their differential association with psychotherapy 
outcomes in late-life depression: Results of the CBTlate study.

Heser K(1), Dafsari FS(2), Kleineidam L(3), Kuss-Gondorf K(4), Luppa M(5), 
Peters O(6), Froelich L(7), Riedel-Heller S(5), Schramm E(8), Hautzinger M(9), 
Wagner M(3), Jessen F(10), Bewernick B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Old Age Psychiatry and Cognitive Disorders, University Hospital 
Bonn, Bonn, Germany. Electronic address: kathrin.heser@ukbonn.de.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Cologne, Faculty of 
Medicine and University Hospital Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(3)Department of Old Age Psychiatry and Cognitive Disorders, University Hospital 
Bonn, Bonn, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Disease (DZNE), Bonn, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Old Age Psychiatry and Cognitive Disorders, University Hospital 
Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(5)Institute of Social Medicine, Occupational Health and Public Health, 
University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Berlin, Germany.
(7)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, Central Institute of Mental Health, 
Medical Faculty Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Medical Center, University of 
Freiburg, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(9)Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Eberhard Karls 
University, Tuebingen, Germany.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Cologne, Faculty 
of Medicine and University Hospital Cologne, Cologne, Germany; German Center for 
Neurodegenerative Disease (DZNE), Bonn, Germany; Cellular Stress Response in 
Aging-Associated Diseases (CECAD) Cluster of Excellence, University of Cologne, 
Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Depression is characterized by heterogeneous symptom patterns. We 
investigated different facets of depressive symptoms and their role in 
predicting the longitudinal outcome of psychotherapy in late-life depression 
(LLD).
METHODS: This is a secondary analysis of a multicenter, randomized clinical 
trial in 229 LLD patients. The factor structure of the Geriatric Depression 
Scale (GDS) was examined. The association between these identified GDS factors 
and longitudinal psychotherapy outcomes (remission, response, GDS change scores) 
was analysed using logistic and linear regression.
RESULTS: Five GDS factors were identified at baseline ("worries and tension", 
"hopelessness and worthlessness", "positivity and appreciation of life", 
"cognitive and performance-related disturbances", "social withdrawal"). Higher 
factor scores in "positivity and appreciation of life" and "social withdrawal" 
were associated with better psychotherapy outcomes. More specifically, 
"positivity and appreciation of life" predicted remission at the end of 
treatment (e.g., OR, 1.95 [95%CI, 1.18-3.22]; p = .009). "Social withdrawal" 
predicted remission at follow-up (e.g., OR, 1.86 [95%CI, 1.17-2.95]; p = .009) 
and response at the end of treatment (e.g., OR, 1.80 [95%CI, 1.17-2.76]; 
p = .008) and follow-up (e.g., OR, 1.93 [95%CI, 1.22-3.04]; p = .005).
CONCLUSIONS: Resilience factors were associated with better outcomes at the end 
of treatment. Social withdrawal might have been reduced by high-frequent 
psychotherapy sessions. Positive associations between social withdrawal and 
better psychotherapy outcomes remained not only at the end of treatment, but 
also in the long-term at follow-up. Our results might assist in treatment 
decision-making and improve treatment efficacy in LLD patients by developing 
targeted, personalized interventions.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.119790
PMID: 40592410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Frank Jessen 
is a member of the executive board of the German Psychiatric Association 
(DGPPN), the European Alzheimer‘s Disease Consortium (EADC), and the German 
Memory Clinic Network (DNG). He received fees for advice and presentations from 
Abbvie, AC immune, Biogen, Boehringer, Danone/Nutricia, Eisai, Grifols, Janssen, 
Lilly and Roche. Lutz Frölich received fees for consultancy and lectures from 
Avanir, Axon Neuroscience, Biogen, Charité Berlin, Eisai, Forschungszentrum 
Jülich, Grifols, Hummingbird, Medscape, Medical Tribune, MerckSharpe & Dohme, 
Neurimmune, Neuroscios, Noselab, NovoNordisk, Pharmatropix, Roche, Schwabe, 
TauRX, and Vivoryon. Oliver Peters received fees for consultancy and lectures 
from Biogen, Eisai, Grifols, Medscape, Noselab, NovoNordisk and Roche. All other 
authors have no conflicts of interest to declare. The authors declare that they 
have no competing interests with regard to the content of the manuscript.


43. Brain Res. 2025 Oct 1;1864:149789. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149789. Epub 
2025 Jun 29.

Calycosin improved long-term memory impairment in the very early of APP/PS1 
mice.

Ding Z(1), Wang J(2), Ding W(1), Duan Y(1), Qi F(1), Liu J(1), Li J(3), Wang 
J(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou City 730000, China.
(2)Surgery Department, Gansu Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Lanzhou City 730000, China.
(3)School of Basic Medicine, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou City 730000, China.
(4)School of Basic Medicine, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou City 730000, China. 
Electronic address: jangbiw@lzu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease is a progressive syndrome characterized by cognitive 
dysfunction, with neuroinflammation and β-amyloid plaque deposition representing 
early pathological hallmarks. Activated microglia and astrocytes play pivotal 
roles in neuroinflammation, further exacerbating the progression of Alzheimer's 
disease. Calycosin, an active ingredient derived from radix astragali, binds to 
estrogen receptors to elicit estrogen-like effects and has demonstrated efficacy 
in alleviating cognitive impairment. However, the impact of calycosin on memory 
deficits and its underlying mechanisms in the very early stages of Alzheimer's 
disease remain unknown. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether calycosin 
can ameliorate early memory loss by inhibiting microglia and astrocyte 
activation in the initial stages of Alzheimer's disease. To this end, we 
selected 3-month-old APP/PS1 transgenic mice and administered 20 mg/kg of 
calycosin daily for 90 days. Our findings revealed that calycosin administration 
improved long-term memory impairment, but had no significant effect on 
short-term learning and memory. Furthermore, calycosin reduced the number of 
β-amyloid plaques and alleviated neuronal loss in the cortex, although no such 
effect was observed in the hippocampus. Notably, calycosin did not alter the 
number of activated astrocytes or microglia surrounding β-amyloid plaques. 
Collectively, these results suggest that the improvement in long-term memory 
function observed with calycosin is not mediated through the inhibition of glial 
cell activation. These findings contribute to our understanding of the potential 
mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of calycosin in Alzheimer's disease 
and highlight the complexity of its actions in this disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149789
PMID: 40592398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


44. Biosens Bioelectron. 2025 Nov 1;287:117722. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2025.117722. 
Epub 2025 Jun 25.

Small-molecule fluorescence probes for biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease.

Wang J(1), Shao X(1), Wang C(1), Wu S(2), Bai M(1), Zhang P(3), Tang S(3), Zhang 
N(4), Wang X(1), Yang Z(5), Hu X(6), Guan P(7), Lyu Z(8), Ding S(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, 
Northwestern Polytechnical University, 127 Youyi Road, Xi'an, 710072, China.
(2)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California 
San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(3)Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering, 
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA.
(4)Institute of Regenerative and Reconstructive Medicine, Med-X Institute, First 
Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 710049, China.
(5)School of Precision Instrument and Opto-electronics Engineering, Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300072, China.
(6)Department of Chemistry, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, 
Northwestern Polytechnical University, 127 Youyi Road, Xi'an, 710072, China. 
Electronic address: huxl@nwpu.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Chemistry, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, 
Northwestern Polytechnical University, 127 Youyi Road, Xi'an, 710072, China. 
Electronic address: guanping1113@nwpu.edu.cn.
(8)School of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, Washington State University, 
Pullman, WA, 99164, USA. Electronic address: zhaoyuan.lyu@wsu.edu.
(9)School of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, Washington State University, 
Pullman, WA, 99164, USA. Electronic address: shichao.ding@wsu.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the prevalent neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by the accumulation of aberrant proteins that obstruct brain cells 
and neurons. Early detection of Alzheimer's disease-related biomarkers is very 
critical for effective treatment of AD. However, the current probes for early 
clinical diagnosis of AD are invasive and costly, susceptible to interference by 
biological background fluorescence, and lack sufficient penetration capabilities 
and challenges associated with imaging in vivo. Therefore, it is very important 
to develop small-molecular fluorescent probes with biocompatibility, strong 
penetration ability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), customizable physical and 
chemical properties, and real-time non-destructive in situ monitoring. This 
review provides a comprehensive overview of protein aggregates, reactive oxygen 
species, metal ions, gas markers, cholinesterase, cysteine, and other recently 
discovered biomarkers, concentrating on the mechanism of targeted diagnosis and 
the relationship between probe structure and characteristics. In addition, the 
review also summaries recent advances in machine learning and artificial 
intelligence for AD field. Furthermore, the challenges and prospects of 
small-molecule fluorescent probes for AD diagnosis and clinical application are 
also summarized. This review aims to provide a foundation for researchers in 
this field, stimulate innovative molecular design strategies, expedite the 
clinical evaluation of AD probes, and ultimately achieving accurate early 
detection of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2025.117722
PMID: 40592264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


45. EBioMedicine. 2025 Aug;118:105826. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105826. Epub
2025  Jun 30.

Trajectory of plasma lipidome associated with the risk of late-onset Alzheimer's 
disease: a longitudinal cohort study.

Wang T(1), Arnold M(2), Huynh K(3), Weinisch P(4), Giles C(3), Mellett NA(5), 
Duong T(5), Marella B(4), Nho K(6), De Livera A(7), Han X(8), Blach C(9), Yu 
C(10), McNeil JJ(10), Lacaze P(10), Saykin AJ(11), Kastenmüller G(4), Meikle 
PJ(3), Kaddurah-Daouk R(12); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI).

Author information:
(1)Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, Australia; Baker Department of 
Cardiometabolic Health, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University, Durham, 
NC, USA; Institute of Computational Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German 
Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(3)Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, Australia; Baker Department of 
Cardiometabolic Health, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Department 
of Cardiovascular Research Translation and Implementation, La Trobe University, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(4)Institute of Computational Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German 
Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(5)Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, Australia.
(6)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA; Center for Computational Biology and 
Bioinformatics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA; 
Indiana Alzheimer Disease Center, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(7)School of Computing, Engineering and Mathematical Sciences, La Trobe 
University, Melbourne, Australia.
(8)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(9)Duke Molecular Physiology Institute, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(10)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(11)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA; Indiana Alzheimer Disease Center, Indiana 
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(12)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University, Durham, 
NC, USA; Duke Institute of Brain Sciences, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA; 
Department of Medicine, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA. Electronic address: 
lisa.howerton@duke.edu.

BACKGROUND: Comprehensive lipidomic studies have demonstrated strong 
cross-sectional associations between the blood lipidome and late-onset 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia and its risk factors, yet the longitudinal 
relationship between lipidome changes and AD progression remains unclear.
METHODS: We employed longitudinal lipidomic profiling on 4730 plasma samples 
from 1517 participants of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) 
cohort to investigate the temporal evolution of lipidomes among diagnostic 
groups. At baseline (n = 1393), participants were classified as stable diagnosis 
status including stable AD (n = 243), stable cognitive normal (CN; n = 337), and 
stable mild cognitive impairment (MCI; n = 413), or converters (AD converters: n 
= 329; MCI converters: n = 71). We developed a dementia risk classification 
model to stratify the non-converting MCI group into dementia-like and 
non-dementia-like MCI based on their baseline lipidomic profiles, aiming to 
identify early metabolic signatures predictive of dementia progression.
FINDINGS: Longitudinal analysis identified significant associations between the 
change in ether lipid species (including alkylphosphatidylcholine, 
alkenylphosphatidylcholine, lysoalkylphosphatidylcholine, and 
lysoalkenylphosphatidylcholine) and AD dementia conversion. Specifically, AD 
dementia converters show a 3-4.8% reduction in these ether lipid species 
compared to the non-converting CN and MCI groups, suggesting metabolic 
dysregulation as a key feature of AD progression. Further, The Dementia Risk 
Model effectively distinguished MCI from AD dementia converters (AUC = 0.70; 95% 
CI: 0.66-0.74). Within the MCI group, the model identified a high-risk subgroup 
with a twofold higher likelihood of conversion to AD dementia compared to the 
low-risk group. External validation in the ASPREE cohort confirmed its 
predictive utility, with the Dementia Risk Score discriminating incident 
dementia from cognitively normal individuals (C-index = 0.75, 95% CI: 
0.73-0.78), improving prediction by 2% over the combination of traditional risk 
factors and APOE genetic risk factor. Additionally, the Dementia Risk Score was 
significantly associated with reduced temporal lobar fludeoxyglucose uptake (β = 
-0.286, p = 1.34 × 10-4), higher amyloid PET levels (β = 0.308, p = 4.03 × 
10-4), and elevated p-tau levels (β = 0.167, p = 2.37 × 10-2), reinforcing its 
pathophysiological relevance in tracking neurodegeneration, amyloid burden, and 
tau pathology.
INTERPRETATION: These findings highlight lipidomic profiling as a potential 
blood-based biomarker for identifying individuals at high risk of AD 
progression, offering a scalable, non-invasive approach for early detection, 
risk stratification, and targeted interventions in AD.
FUNDING: The National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia (#1101320 
and #1157607); NHMRC Investigator grant (#GNT1197190); Victorian Government's 
Operational Infrastructure Support Program; National Heart Foundation of 
Australia, Future Leader Fellowship (#102604), and National Health and Medical 
Research Council Investigator Grant (#2026325); Investigator grant (#2009965) 
from the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia; a National 
Health and Medical Research Council of Australia Senior Research Fellowship 
(#1042095); National Institutes of Health grants: P30AG010133, P30AG072976, 
R01AG019771, R01AG057739, U19AG024904, R01LM013463, R01AG068193, T32AG071444, 
U01AG068057, U01AG072177, U19AG074879, R01AG069901, R01AG046171, RF1AG051550, 
RF1AG057452; National Institutes of Health/National Institute on Aging grants 
RF1AG058942, RF1AG059093, U01AG061359, U19AG063744, and R01AG081322, NIH/NLM 
R01LM012535; FNIH: DAOU16AMPA.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105826
PMCID: PMC12269576
PMID: 40592256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests Dr. Kaddurah-Daouk is 
an inventor on a series of patents on use of metabolomics for the diagnosis and 
treatment of CNS diseases and holds equity in Metabolon Inc., Chymia LLC and 
PsyProtix. Prof. Meikle leads the provisional patent “METHODS OF ASSESSING 
ALZHEIMER’S DISEASE” on the development of dementia risk scores that has been 
filed with the Serial No. 63/463,808. Gabi Kastenmüller declares equity in 
Chymia LLC and EMBL-EBI, is the inventor on patents, Philippine Genome 
Center/Davao Medical School, DAAD/DWIH, and BMBF. Andrew Saykin has received 
gifts/services from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, has editorial involvement with 
Springer-Nature Publishing, and has served on scientific advisory boards for 
Eisai, Novo Nordisk, and Siemens. Paul Lacaze is supported by a National Heart 
Foundation of Australia Future Leader Fellowship. Matthias Arnold reports 
support from NIH/NIA, is a co-inventor on patents, and has equity in Chymia LLC, 
PsyProtiz, and Atai Life Sciences. Other authors have declared that no conflict 
of interest exists.


46. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Aug;189:118299. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118299. 
Epub 2025 Jun 30.

Paeoniflorin exercise-mimetic potential regulates the Nrf2/HO-1/BDNF/CREB and 
APP/BACE-1/NF-κB/MAPK signaling pathways to reduce cognitive impairments and 
neuroinflammation in amnesic mouse model.

Choi JW(1), Im JH(2), Balakrishnan R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Physiology and Kinesiology, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, United States.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, College of Biomedical and Health Science, 
Research Institute of Inflammatory Disease (RID), Konkuk University, Chungju 
27478, South Korea.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, College of Biomedical and Health Science, 
Research Institute of Inflammatory Disease (RID), Konkuk University, Chungju 
27478, South Korea. Electronic address: balakonkuk@kku.ac.kr.

Microglia-mediated neuroinflammation plays a crucial role in memory and 
cognitive deficits and the development of early mild cognitive impairment (MCI) 
associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Paeoniflorin (PF) has been established 
as an effective antioxidant and anti-apoptotic agent. This study investigated 
the protective effects of PF on neuroinflammation, amyloidogenesis, and memory 
impairments in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated BV-2 microglial cells and a 
C57BL/6 J amnesic mouse model. In BV-2 microglial cells, PF treatment inhibited 
LPS-stimulated nitric oxide (NO) production, attenuated microglial 
overactivation, and suppressed the excessive release of inflammatory mediators 
(iNOS and COX-2) in a concentration-dependent manner. More crucially, PF 
regulated the LPS-stimulated phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein 
kinases (MAPKs)-including p38, ERK, and JNK-while also suppressing NF-κB nuclear 
transport and inhibiting IκB-α phosphorylation. In the in vivo study, PF (10 or 
20 mg/kg) treatment significantly improved spatial learning memory and cognitive 
function and ameliorated memory deficits. Furthermore, PF administration 
upregulated BDNF, p-CREB, Nrf2, and HO-1 expression, which are biomarkers of 
neuroprotective and antioxidant effects. This was accompanied by a reduction in 
markers of neuroinflammation (iNOS and COX-2), the inhibition of microglia and 
astrocytes overactivation, and decreased expression of amyloidogenic protein 
markers APP and BACE-1 in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Further, PF 
inhibited the LPS-promoted phosphorylation of MAPK signaling, thereby reducing 
the phosphorylation level of IκB-α and inhibiting NF-κB activation in the 
hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Our results suggest that PF confers 
neuroprotective effects in an LPS model of Alzheimer-associated MCI by 
regulating the Nrf2/HO-1/BDNF/CREB and APP/BACE-1/NF-κB/MAPK signaling pathways.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118299
PMID: 40592207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


47. Comput Biol Chem. 2025 Dec;119:108569. doi:
10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2025.108569.  Epub 2025 Jun 26.

Chemical constituents of vegetables and fruits as potential inhibitors of 
lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2: An in-silico approach toward mitigating 
the complications of Alzheimer's disease and atherosclerosis.

Amalraj S(1), Karunanithi K(2), Prabhu S(3), Dass K(4), Awadalkreem F(5), 
Kadaikunnan S(6), Thiruvengadam M(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Phytochemistry and Drug Design, Department of Biosciences, 
Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Cochin, Kerala 683 104, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Government College of Engineering, Sengipatti, 
Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu 613 402, India.
(3)Division of Phytochemistry and Drug Design, Department of Biosciences, 
Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Cochin, Kerala 683 104, India. Electronic 
address: prabhusbotany@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Zoology, Annai Vailankanni Arts and Science College (Affiliated 
to Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirappalli), Thanjavur, Tamilnadu 613007, 
India.
(5)Department of Prosthodontics, RAK College of Dental Sciences, RAK Medical & 
Health Sciences University, United Arab Emirates.
(6)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Sciences, King Saud 
University, P. O. Box 2455, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
sshine@ksu.edu.sa.
(7)Department of Crop Science, College of Sanghuh Life Science, Konkuk 
University, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive disorder that causes memory loss, 
communication difficulties, cognitive impairment, and behavioral changes. On the 
other hand, atherosclerosis is a cardiovascular disease characterized by the 
build-up of plaque in the arteries. Hence, the current research aims to 
investigate the potential of chemical compounds present in food plants to treat 
Alzheimer's disease and atherosclerosis by targeting Lp-PLA₂ using in silico 
techniques. In this study, the Schrodinger suite, particularly Maestro v14.1, 
was used to prepare the chemical constituents (80 metabolites) and protein (PDB 
ID: 5I8P) molecules after they were obtained from established databases. 
Molecular docking showed that procyanidin A1 was the strongest blocker of 
Lp-PLA₂, with a docking score of -9.475 kcal/mol and stronger interactions. 
Similarly, sulfur-containing molecules, such as benzyl glucosinolate 
(-8.150 kcal/mol), glucoconringiin (-7.988 kcal/mol), and sinalbin 
(-7.958 kcal/mol), have also been identified as ideal candidates for treating 
Alzheimer's disease and atherosclerosis, as they have strong interactions with 
Lp-PLA₂. The study of molecular dynamics simulations showed that procyanidin A1, 
benzyl glucosinolate, and glucoconringiin had better binding stability for 
100 ns, with an RMSD range of less than 1.5 Å. The post-MD interaction plots 
revealed that all hit compounds firmly attached to the residues of Lp-PLAs, with 
binding percentages ranging from 60 % to 98 %, indicating that the complex had 
high binding affinity. The toxicity assessment further revealed that procyanidin 
A1 and sinaplin possess the ability to traverse the blood-brain barrier (BBB), 
suggesting their potential to penetrate cerebral regions in the context of 
treating neurodegenerative diseases, particularly Alzheimer's disease. In the 
organ toxicity assessment, procyanidin A1, benzyl glucosinolate, 
glucoconringiin, and sinalbin had only two active probability organ toxicity 
rates for respiratory and nephrons, which were less than 0.60, whereas VQ7 had 
four active probability rates for hepatotoxicity, neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, 
and respiratory toxicity ranging from > 0.50 < 90. The present study concludes 
that complications related to Alzheimer's disease and atherosclerosis could 
possibly be alleviated through the use of everyday foods, particularly 
vegetables and fruits. However, to develop new therapeutic candidates for 
Alzheimer's disease and atherosclerosis, additional in vitro and in vivo studies 
on the identified molecules are required to better understand their distinct 
modes of action in treating these diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2025.108569
PMID: 40592030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


48. Sci Signal. 2025 Jul;18(893):eadv0970. doi: 10.1126/scisignal.adv0970. Epub
2025  Jul 1.

A PKCη missense mutation enhances Golgi-localized signaling and is associated 
with recessively inherited familial Alzheimer's disease.

Gauron MC(1), Prokopenko D(2)(3), Lee S(4)(5), Wolfe SA(1), Hecker J(3)(6), 
Willett J(2)(3), Waqas M(2), Lordén G(1), Yang Y(1), Mayfield JE(1), Castanho 
I(3)(7), Mullin K(2), Morgan S(7)(8), Hahn G(5), Demeo DL(3)(6), Hide W(3)(7), 
Bertram L(9)(10), Lange C(3)(5), Newton AC(1), Tanzi RE(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093-0721, USA.
(2)Genetics and Aging Research Unit and the McCance Center for Brain Health, 
Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown, MA 02129, 
USA.
(3)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(4)Department of Medical Consilience, Graduate School, Dankook University, 
Yongin-si, 16890, South Korea.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(6)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
MA 02115, USA.
(7)Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA 
02115, USA.
(8)Blizard Institute, Department of Neuroscience, Surgery and Trauma, Queen Mary 
University of London, London E1 4NS, UK.
(9)Lübeck Interdisciplinary Platform for Genome Analytics, Institutes of 
Neurogenetics and Cardiogenetics, University of Lübeck, 23562 Lübeck, Germany.
(10)Center for Lifespan Changes in Brain and Cognition, Department of 
Psychology, University of Oslo, 0373 Oslo, Norway.

The identification of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-associated genomic variants has 
provided powerful insight into disease etiology. Genome-wide association studies 
(GWASs) of AD have successfully identified previously unidentified targets but 
have almost exclusively used additive genetic models. Here, we performed a 
family-based GWAS of a recessive inheritance model using whole-genome sequencing 
from families affected by AD. We found an association between AD risk and the 
variant rs7161410, which is located in an intron of the PRKCH gene encoding 
protein kinase C eta (PKCη). In addition, a rare PRKCH missense mutation, K65R, 
was in linkage disequilibrium with rs7161410 and was present in homozygous 
carriers of the rs7161410 risk allele. In vitro analysis revealed that the 
catalytic rate, lipid dependence, and peptide substrate binding of the purified 
variant were indistinguishable from those of the wild-type kinase. However, 
cellular studies revealed that the K65R PKCη variant had reduced cytosolic 
activity and, instead, enhanced localization and signaling at the Golgi. 
Moreover, the K65R variant had altered interaction networks in transfected 
cells, particularly with proteins involved in Golgi processes such as vesicle 
transport. In human brain tissue, the AD-associated recessive genotype of 
rs7161410 was associated with increased expression of PRKCH, particularly in the 
amygdala. This association of aberrant PKCη signaling with AD and the insight 
into how its function is altered may lead to previously unidentified therapeutic 
targets for prevention and treatment.

DOI: 10.1126/scisignal.adv0970
PMCID: PMC12303577
PMID: 40591711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests. Furthermore, the funding body had no role in 
the design of the study and collection, analysis, and interpretation of data or 
in writing the manuscript.


49. Behav Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 1;36(6):397-414. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000838.
 Epub 2025 Jul 1.

Procognitive effects of methyl 2-amino-3-methoxybenzoate (or daopine) may 
involve the dorsal striatal anthranilic acid pathway and 
mutimetabolite-multitarget pharmacology.

Bright Y(1), Amatdjais-Groenen HIV(2), Verheij MMM(1), van den Broek PHH(3), 
Spoelder M(1)(4), Maas D(1)(5)(6), Greupink R(3), Martens GJM(6), Homberg JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Centre, 
Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour.
(2)Institute for Molecules and Materials, System Chemistry, Radboud University.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Radboud Institute of Molecular 
Life Sciences.
(4)Department of Primary and Community Care, Radboud Institute for Health 
Sciences, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen.
(5)Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam 
UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam.
(6)Department of Molecular Animal Physiology, Donders Institute for Brain, 
Cognition and Behaviour, Faculty of Science, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Multifunctional drug treatment is currently the most promising approach in 
neuropsychopharmacology to overcome complex disorders, such as schizophrenia. We 
previously showed that the natural protoalkaloid, methyl 
2-amino-3-methoxybenzoate [or daopine (DAO)] has procognitive effects in animal 
models of schizophrenia. Because DAO is a metabolite of the anthranilic acid 
biosynthesis pathway in Nigella damascena plant seeds, we sought to find out if 
DAO exerts its procognitive effects via the 'anthranilic 
acid-brain-pathway-twin' and mutimetabolite-multitarget pharmacology. We 
explored the procognitive effects of DAO using the operant set shift task in a 
rat model of attentional flexibility deficits induced by L-kynurenine, the 
precursor of both kynurenic acid and anthranilic acid. HPLC and liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to identify brain and plasma DAO 
metabolites and the effects of DAO on dorsal striatal anthranilic acid. DAO 
attenuated kynurenine-induced cognitive deficits. We identified for the first 
time the brain (DAO-1 and DAO-3) and plasma (DAO-1 and DAO-2) metabolites of 
DAO, which remarkably are all methylated derivatives of 3-hydroxyanthranilic 
acid (3-OHAA), an endogenous brain astrocytic metabolite of anthranilic acid 
playing a crucial role in cognition. In vitro , DAO-2 and DAO-3 significantly 
reduced oxidative activity, lipid peroxidation, inflammation, and amyloid 
β-42-aggregation, all of which represent processes that play an important 
protective role against cognitive dysfunction. The results strengthen our 
hypothesis that administering small molecules structurally related to 
anthranilic acid/3-OHAA, such as DAO, may provide a multitarget strategy for the 
prevention and treatment of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia, and more 
broadly, in other cognitive disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000838
PMCID: PMC12329809
PMID: 40590485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


50. Behav Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 1;36(6):387-396. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000836.
 Epub 2025 Jul 1.

Effect of Alcea aucheri (Bioss.) Alef extract against scopolamine-induced memory 
impairment in rats.

Mombeini T(1)(2), Gholami Pourbadie H(3), Kamalinejad M(4), Dehpour AR(5)(6), 
Mazloumi S(7), Hamidian R(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Shahed 
University.
(2)Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuroscience and Cognition, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Pasteur Institute of Iran.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences.
(5)Experimental Medicine Research Center.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences.
(7)School of Medicine, Shahed University.
(8)Department of Physiology, Biological Science Faculty, Shahid Beheshti 
University, Tehran, Iran.

Memory impairment is a core feature of neurodegenerative diseases such as 
Alzheimer's disease, often modeled using scopolamine-induced cognitive 
dysfunction in animals. While Alcea aucheri (Boiss.) Alef has demonstrated 
anxiolytic properties, but its potential impact on cognitive function, 
particularly memory, remains unexplored. This study investigates the effects of 
extract of flower of Alcea aucheri (EFA) on cognitive performance in 
scopolamine-free rats and in a scopolamine-induced memory impairment model. Male 
Wistar rats were administered EFA [17.5-700 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)] 
across various experimental groups. Cognitive function was assessed using the 
passive avoidance test for long-term memory and two-trial Y-maze for spatial 
reference memory. Scopolamine (2 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered to induce memory 
impairment. The efficacy of EFA in mitigating scopolamine-induced cognitive 
deficits was evaluated, and memory maintenance was assessed over 6 weeks 
following treatment. Except for the EFA dose of 700 mg/kg which adversly 
affected passive avoidance test, its other doses had no significant impact on 
memory performance in scopolamine-free rats, as observed in both the passive 
avoidance test and the two-trial Y-maze; however, in rats with 
scopolamine-induced cognitive deficits, EFA (particularly at 70 mg/kg) 
significantly improved step-through latency in the passive avoidance test ( P 
 < 0.001). This suggests a dose-dependent reversal of memory impairment. In 
addition, EFA demonstrated sustained cognitive enhancement over a 6-week period 
without affecting body weight. The findings suggest that EFA has a protective 
effect against scopolamine-induced memory impairment and could serve as a 
potential therapeutic agent for neurodegenerative conditions associated with 
cognitive decline. Further research is required to elucidate the underlying 
mechanisms responsible for these effects.

Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000836
PMID: 40590264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Clin Invest. 2025 Jul 1;135(13):e194443. doi: 10.1172/JCI194443.
eCollection  2025 Jul 1.

Thwarting amyloidosis: IL-17 as a disease modifier along the gut/brain axis.

Self WK, Holtzman DM.

Comment on
    The gut microbiome controls reactive astrocytosis during Aβ amyloidosis via 
propionate-mediated regulation of IL-17.

Recent studies have highlighted a possible role for gut microbiota in modulating 
Alzheimer's disease pathology, particularly through the actions of gut-derived 
metabolites and their influence on the immune system. In this issue of the JCI, 
Chandra et al. reveal that circulating levels of the gut microbiota-derived 
metabolite propionate affected amyloid burden and glial activation in a mouse 
model of Aβ amyloidosis. The study also identifies a mechanism for the 
therapeutic benefit of propionate supplementation, showing that propionate 
lowered peripheral IL-17 and suppressed Th17 cell activity. These results 
support the idea of therapeutic targeting of the gut/brain/immune axis, 
particularly via modulation of Th17 responses, and suggest translational 
strategies involving microbiome-based or immunological interventions for 
dementia prevention and treatment.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI194443
PMCID: PMC12208533
PMID: 40590230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: WKS consults for 
Astonishing Labs. DMH has equity in and is on the scientific advisory board of 
C2N Diagnostics; is on the scientific advisory boards of Denali, Genentech, 
Acta, Cajal Neuroscience, and Switch Therapeutics; and consults for Pfizer and 
Roche.


52. Front Neurol. 2025 Jun 16;16:1588535. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1588535. 
eCollection 2025.

Therapeutic role of mesenchymal stem cells in neurogenesis for management of 
neurological disorders: a scientometric study to an in-depth review.

Wang Q(#)(1), Jiang W(#)(2), Feng Y(1), Li L(1), Chu L(1), Fang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, 
China.
(2)Department of Gerontology, The Quzhou Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Quzhou People's Hospital, Quzhou, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The biological process of neurogenesis involves the production of 
new and completely functional neurons in two specific regions of the brain: the 
ventricular-subventricular zone (V-SVZ) and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the 
hippocampal dentate gyrus by neural stem cells (NSCs). Interfering with this 
mechanism harms the brain and may result in neurological disorders. Cell-based 
therapies are becoming recognized as optimal possibilities for facilitating 
neurogenesis. To comprehend the many processes and mechanisms of neurogenesis 
and the role of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as active contributors to 
pathologic events influencing neurogenesis. We utilized the Web of Science (core 
collection) as the data source.
METHODS: The search was performed in the Web of Science core collection database 
until April 30, 2024, with the terms "Mesenchymal stem cells" as the title and 
"neurogenesis" as the topic.
RESULTS: A total of 407 papers about mesenchymal stem cells in neurogenesis 
published from 2004 to 2024 were retrieved. Further, we performed a bibliometric 
analysis of these publications, such as generating cooperation maps, co-citation 
analysis of journals and references, and cluster analysis of keywords. Next, we 
discussed the mechanism by which MSCs promote neurogenesis during the onset of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and stroke diseases.
CONCLUSION: Overall, three aspects primarily reflect the treatment of stroke 
with MSCs: neural circuit reconstruction, mitochondrial transfer, and 
extracellular vesicle transfer. The treatment of AD with MSCs is mainly 
reflected in the five aspects of inhibiting neuroinflammation, microglia 
changes, amyloid-β removal, functional recovery of autophagy, and blood-brain 
barrier (BBB) function recovery. Finally, we also made prospects for future 
research of MSCs.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Jiang, Feng, Li, Chu and Fang.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1588535
PMCID: PMC12206825
PMID: 40589994

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


53. J Pharmacopuncture. 2025 Jun 30;28(2):92-99. doi: 10.3831/KPI.2025.28.2.92.

Piper Longum's Neuroprotective Role Against Amyloid-β and Okadaic Acid-Induced 
Toxicity in U87MG Cells Through the Lipocalin-2 Pathway.

Sung SH(1), Shin SM(1), Kim Y(1)(2)(3), Cho SH(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Korean Medicine, College of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, College of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee 
University Medical Center, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Research Group of Neuroscience, East-West Medical Research Institute, WHO 
Collaborating Center, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVES: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurological disorder that causes 
symptoms such as cognitive impairment and memory loss. The number of AD patients 
keeps escalating throughout the world leading to various social problems, 
meanwhile no practical treatment for the disease has been proposed. Some of the 
well-known causes of AD are excessive amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation and tau 
hyperphosphorylation. Lipocalin-2 (LCN2) is a proinflammatory mediator in 
astrocytes that increases Aβ aggregation and tau pathology accumulation. 
However, Piperine, a plant-derived siderophore found in Piper longum disrupts 
the function of LCN2. This study aimed to investigate the effect of P. longum on 
U87MG cell line under administration of Aβ and Okadaic acid (OKA) with 
LCN2-related mechanism.
METHODS: Aβ and OKA were administered to the U87MG cell lines. PLE (Piper Longum 
Extract) was administered to see the therapeutic affect against the toxins. WST 
assay and Western blot were used to compare cell viability and relative 
intensity of p-Tau (AT8), p-Tau (AT180), and LCN2.
RESULTS: PLE showed neuroprotective effects in U87MG cells on Aβ and OKA each. 
The group treated with PLE showed increased cell viability and the decreased 
level of LCN2 compared to the Aβ group. Also, the group treated with PLE 
recovered cell viability and showed significantly decreased p-Tau (AT8)/p-Tau 
(AT180) levels compared to the group treated with OKA. Upon administration of 
PLE, there was a considerable decrease in the relative level of LCN2 compared to 
the OKA treated group.
CONCLUSION: These findings demonstrate that P. longum exerts neuroprotective 
effects against Aβ- and tau-induced toxicity in an astrocyte cell model by 
alleviating the damage from Aβ and OKA that induce neuroinflammation and 
decreasing LCN2 levels in astrocyte cells. Additionally, there is need to 
investigate other underlying mechanisms for novel use of P. longum that may 
contribute to AD recovery in the future.

© 2025 Korean Pharmacopuncture Institute.

DOI: 10.3831/KPI.2025.28.2.92
PMCID: PMC12177567
PMID: 40589483

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Seung-Hun Cho has been an 
editorial board member of Journal of Pharmacopuncture since 2021 but has no role 
in the decision to publish this article. No other potential conflicts of 
interest relevant to this aricle were reported.


54. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2025 Jul;31(7):e70497. doi: 10.1111/cns.70497.

Electroacupuncture Attenuates High-Fat Diet-Exacerbated Alzheimer's Pathology by 
Enhancing TFEB/TFE3-Mediated Autophagic Clearance of Tau and NLRP3 Inflammasome 
in 3xTg Mice.

Zheng X(1), Luo Z(2), Zheng J(2), Deng C(2), Liu D(2), Chen Y(2), Zhou R(2), Zou 
J(1)(3), Huang G(1)(3), Zeng Q(1)(3), Tang C(2), Song JX(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Rehabilitation Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 
China.
(2)Medical College of Acupuncture-Moxibustion and Rehabilitation, Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Chengdu, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology is increasingly linked to 
metabolic disturbances induced by high-fat diets (HFD), with both 
autophagy-lysosomal pathway (ALP) dysfunction and activation of the NLRP3 
inflammasome emerging as key pathological mechanisms. This study introduces a 
novel approach using electroacupuncture (EA) to mitigate HFD-accelerated AD 
pathology, focusing on the regulatory role of transcription factors TFEB and 
TFE3 in ALP and their potential modulation by EA.
METHODS: 3xTg-AD mice were fed either an HFD or a standard diet for 16 weeks, 
followed by EA treatment at the ST36 acupoint. AAV-mediated hippocampal 
knockdown of TFEB and TFE3 was performed using shRNA constructs. Cognitive 
performance was evaluated with the Morris water maze (MWM) and Y-maze tests. 
Molecular analyses, including immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry, were 
conducted to examine the impact of EA on NLRP3 inflammasome activation, ALP 
dynamics, and the involvement of TFEB and TFE3 in modulating these pathways 
within the brain.
RESULTS: HFD feeding significantly exacerbated Tau pathology and NLRP3 
inflammasome activation in 3xTg-AD mice, leading to pronounced cognitive 
deficits. Notably, EA-ST36 intervention reversed these pathological effects, 
enhancing memory function and reducing both Tau aggregation and NLRP3 
inflammasome activation. Mechanistic insights revealed that EA-ST36 activated 
TFEB and TFE3 by modulating the MTOR/ULK1 signaling pathway, thereby enhancing 
autophagic clearance of NLRP3 inflammasome components and Tau aggregates.
CONCLUSION: This study proposes EA-ST36 as a promising therapeutic strategy for 
counteracting HFD-induced AD pathology by activating TFEB/TFE3-driven autophagic 
pathways, thereby enhancing the clearance of toxic protein aggregates and 
inflammasome components. These findings advance our understanding of EA's 
molecular mechanisms in AD therapy, offering a novel, nonpharmacological 
approach for mitigating diet-induced exacerbation of neurodegenerative 
processes.

© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.70497
PMCID: PMC12209595
PMID: 40589337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


55. Zhongguo Ying Yong Sheng Li Xue Za Zhi. 2025 Jul 1;41:e20250014. doi: 
10.62958/j.cjap.2025.014.

Perspectives on Fecal Microbiota Transplantation: Uses and Modes of 
Administration.

Tiwari R(1), Paswan A(1), Tiwari G(1), Reddy VJS(2), Posa MK(3).

Author information:
(1)PSIT-Pranveer Singh Institute of Technology (Pharmacy), Kalpi Road, Bhauti, 
Kanpur-208020, India.
(2)Krishna Teja pharmacy college, Renigunta Road, Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh 
517506, India.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Jaipur National University, Jaipur-Agra 
Bypass, Near New RTO Office, Jagatpura, Jaipur-302017, India.

Fecal microbiota Transplantation (FMT), often referred to as stool 
transplantation, fecal transfusion, and fecal bacteria therapy, is considered 
one of the most medical innovations of the 20th century. Fecal microbiota 
Transplantation entails filtering and dilution of a healthy donor's feces before 
injecting it into the recipient's digestive system. In China, it was first 
administered orally in the fourth century for diarrhea and food poisoning under 
the name "Yellow Soup." It has recently been widely employed in a variety of 
clinical settings, including cases of Clostridium difficile infection that are 
recurring and resistant. By replacing the unhealthy intestinal microbiota with a 
healthy bacterial community, the FMT treatment aims to enhance the intestinal 
flora. It also looks at neurological conditions where alterations in gut 
microbiota are prevalent. We have discussed FMT in the context of its use in 
conditions affecting the nerve system, such as neurological and other conditions 
(multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, stroke, epilepsy, 
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Tourette syndrome, neuropathic pain, Huntington's 
diseases, etc.), as well as the role of gut microbiota in many neurological 
disorders.

DOI: 10.62958/j.cjap.2025.014
PMID: 40589142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Immunology. 2025 Jun 30. doi: 10.1111/imm.70014. Online ahead of print.

The Role and Mechanism of Anti-ICOS mAb in Experimental Autoimmune 
Encephalomyelitis.

Xiao M(1)(2), Zhao Y(1)(2), Zhang X(3), Sun Q(1)(2), Gao G(1)(2), Wu N(1), Fan 
X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Binzhou Medical University Hospital, Binzhou, China.
(2)Binzhou Medical University, Binzhou, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Liaocheng People's Hospital, Liaocheng, China.

Targeting costimulatory signalling pathways, especially inducible T-cell 
costimulatory (ICOS)-ICOS ligand(ICOSL) co-stimulatory signal, has been widely 
used as a therapeutic target in autoimmune diseases. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is 
an autoimmune inflammatory demyelinating and neurodegenerative disease in the 
central nervous system. At present, few studies are addressing the role of the 
ICOS-ICOSL co-stimulatory pathway in MS. We aimed to explore the role of 
anti-ICOS mAb in the immune response of EAE and further reveal the regulatory 
mechanism. C57BL/6 female mice (6-8 weeks old, 18-20 g) were randomly divided 
into EAE group, T1 group, T9 group and T30 group. The EAE model was established 
in the three groups by MOG active immunisation. Symptom scores and weights of 
mice were recorded every day after modelling. Mice in the T1 and the T9 groups 
were given intraperitoneal injections of anti-ICOS mAb on Day 1 or 9 after 
active immunisation, respectively. Anti-ICOS mAb were injected three times 
total, each injection separated by 72 h. On the 19th day after modelling, the 
mice were sacrificed and the spinal cord tissues of each group were collected. 
Mice in the T30 group were given an intraperitoneal injection of anti-ICOS mAb 
on Day 9 after active immunisation. These anti-ICOS mAb were injected 
continuously until Day 30. On Day 30 after the establishment of the model, the 
mice were sacrificed and spinal cord tissues were collected. HE staining was 
used to observe the inflammatory infiltration of the spinal cord in each group 
of mice. Transcriptome sequencing was used to detect gene transcription in 
spinal cord tissues of mice and to explore the signalling pathways that might be 
involved. Finally, the signalling pathway was verified by Western blot. (1) 
Compared with the EAE group, there are significantly lower behavioural scores, 
heavier weight, delayed onset time and fewer inflammatory infiltrations of the 
spinal cord in the T9 group and T30 group. However, there were no significant 
differences in behavioural scores, weight, onset time and inflammatory 
infiltration between the EAE group and the T1 group. (2) The R2 value of the 
spinal cord sample in each group was greater than 0.8. There were 6569 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between T9 group and EAE group, including 
2579 up-regulated genes and 3990 down-regulated genes. There were 487 DEGs 
between T1 and EAE groups, including 131 up-regulated genes and 356 
down-regulated genes. There were 7116 DEGs between T9 and T1 groups, including 
2921 up-regulated genes and 4195 down-regulated genes. KEGG enrichment showed 
that DEGs between T9 group and EAE group were mainly enriched in Epstein-Barr 
virus infection, NF-κB signalling pathway, FcγR-mediated phagocytosis, natural 
killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity, as well as Th17, Th1 and Th2 cell 
differentiation pathways. In the most significantly enriched EB pathway, we 
found that the fold change of key genes SYK, PI3K and AKT was -4.3457, -2.0985 
and -0.69373, respectively (p < 0.001). However, in KEGG enrichment analysis 
between T1 group and EAE group, DEGs were mainly enriched in retrograde 
endocannabinoid signalling, Parkinson's disease, morphine addiction, Alzheimer's 
disease, endocrine disorders, Huntington's disease, cholinergic synapses, 
oxidative phosphorylation and other pathways. In addition, in KEGG enrichment 
analysis between T9 group and T1 group, DEGs were mainly in Epstein-Barr virus 
infection, Th17, Th1 and Th2 cell differentiation, NF-κB signalling pathway, B/T 
cell receptor signalling pathway, TNF signalling pathway, FcγR-mediated 
phagocytosis and other pathways. (3) Compared with the control group, the 
relative expression of SYK, AKT and PI3K protein in the spinal cord of the EAE 
group was significantly increased. The relative expression of SYK, AKT and PI3K 
protein in the T9 group and T30 group was significantly decreased compared with 
the EAE group, while there was no significant difference between the EAE group 
and the T1 group. Anti-ICOS mAb treatment showed a therapeutic effect in EAE 
mice during the immune response period (Days 9 and 30 after active 
immunisation), but not in the immune activation period (Day 1 after active 
immunisation). The therapeutic effect of anti-ICOS mAb through blocking 
ICOS-ICOSL signalling in the immune response of EAE mice may be mediated by 
inhibiting the SYK/PI3K/AKT pathway.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imm.70014
PMID: 40589140


57. Curr Top Med Chem. 2025 Jun 27. doi: 10.2174/0115680266362594250527112018. 
Online ahead of print.

Novel Nanoformulations to Overcome Obstacles in Herbal Drug Delivery for 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Kumar D(1), Wal P(2), Wal A(2), Lari MQ(1), Ashesh AM(1), Kumar D(3), Singh 
SK(4), Singh BK(5), Kumar A(1).

Author information:
(1)Sardar Patel College of Pharmacy, Medical College Road, Gorakhpur 273013, 
(U.P.), India.
(2)Pranveer Singh Institute of Technology, Kanpur, 209305, (U.P.), India.
(3)Poona College of Pharmacy, Bharati Vidyapeeth University, Bharati Vidyapeeth 
Educational Complex, More Vidyalaya Campus, Eradwane, Paun Road, Pune - 411038.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Science and Technology, Madan Mohan Malviya 
University of Technology, Gorakhpur, (U.P.), India.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Graphic Era Hill University, Dehradun-248002, India & 
Department of Pharmacy, S. N. Medical College, Agra-282002, India.

INTRODUCTION: Nanomedicine is a rapidly growing field in pharmaceutical science, 
driven by the enhanced quality of nano-formulations that improve the treatment 
of various diseases. Nano-sized novel drug delivery techniques for herbal 
pharmaceuticals have the potential to enhance activity and address concerns 
related to medicinal plants in the future. Natural chemicals show promise in 
various neurodegenerative diseases, but their permeability across the 
blood-brain barrier prevents them from reaching the nervous system. By improving 
molecular monitoring, synthesis, and diagnostics, pharmaceutical nanotechnology 
provides improved controlled drug delivery for the treatment of 
neurodegeneration.
METHOD: The evaluated and investigated data from recent studies were gathered 
using Google Scholar as a search engine. We reviewed and analysed research 
publications from databases like Bentham Science, Elsevier, PubMed, and 
ScienceDirect, among others, to summarize the findings.
RESULTS: Curcumin, Centella asiatica, thymoquinone, Hypericum perforatum, Panax 
ginseng, quercetin, piperine, and a variety of other herbs and herbal medicines 
have all been examined for their potential to aid in the treatment of brain 
disorders like Alzheimer's disease. To enhance drug bioavailability in the 
brain, nanoformulations, including phytosomes, transferosomes, ethosomes, and 
niosomes, have been utilized as pharmaceuticals.
CONCLUSION: Herbs and herbal medicines have been synthesized into nanoparticle 
form to enhance tissue distribution, achieve sustained delivery, and protect 
against physicochemical degradation while also increasing the solubility and 
bioavailability of poorly soluble herbal products. To overcome physiological 
complications, researchers must develop lab-scale approaches, characterization 
methodologies, and targeting tactics for nanoformulations with high 
translational potential early in product development.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115680266362594250527112018
PMID: 40589006


58. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2025 Jun 27. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273382447250526062100. Online ahead of print.

β-Amyloid Pathways in Alzheimer's Disease: Mechanisms and Therapeutic Targets.

Bansal S(1)(2), Yadav M(3), Bisht P(3), Bansal D(3), Tushir S(4), Rathore D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science 
& Technology, Hisar, 125001, Haryana, India.
(2)Bhaskar Pharmacy College, Moinabad, Ranga Reddy, Hyderabad, Telangana, 
500075, India.
(3)Amity Institute of Pharmacy, Amity University, Haryana, Amity Education 
Valley, Gurugram, Manesar, Panchgaon, Haryana, 122413, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Panipat Institute of Engineering and Technology, 
Samalkha, 132102, Panipat, Haryana, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a typical neurodegenerative illness, and it is a 
main cause of dementia, affecting millions of older populations throughout the 
world. Although the exact causes of AD are still not clear, the disorder is 
known to be considered by the accumulation of amyloid plaques and tau tangles in 
the neuronal cells. Currently, available drugs such as cholinesterase inhibitors 
and NMDA antagonists can help manage symptoms but don't address the underlying 
causes of the disease. New experimental treatments targeting amyloid and tau 
proteins show promise but are still in clinical trials. Recently, β-Amyloid has 
gained attention as an emerging target to develop new medications as it is 
strongly involved in the pathophysiology of AD. β-Amyloidpathies are directly or 
indirectly linked with multiple pathways, including GSK3β, insulin resistance, 
NMDA dysfunction, AMP-activated kinase, cholesterol mechanism, mitochondrial 
dysfunction, neuroinflammation, and SIRT1. However, several β-Amyloid targeting 
therapies employing various mechanisms have shown partial success in clinical 
trials, possibly due to a lack of understanding of the molecular link of this 
peptide with other pathways. Therefore, this paper has discussed the β- Amyloid 
molecular mechanisms involved in pathophysiological pathways to manage neuronal 
disorders and intracellular signal transduction effectively.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273382447250526062100
PMID: 40588995


59. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2025 Jun 30;13(1):144. doi:
10.1186/s40478-025-02064-2.

Comparison of plasma ALZpath p-Tau217 with Lilly p-Tau217 and p-Tau181 in a 
neuropathological cohort.

Bali D(1), Salvadó G(2), Beach TG(3), Serrano GE(3), Atri A(4), Reiman 
EM(5)(6)(7)(8), Jeromin A(9), Hansson O(2)(10), Janelidze S(11).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund 
University, Sölvegatan 19, BMC B11, Lund, 22184, Sweden. divya.bali@med.lu.se.
(2)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund 
University, Sölvegatan 19, BMC B11, Lund, 22184, Sweden.
(3)Civin Laboratory for Neuropathology, Banner Sun Health Research Institute, 
10515 W Santa Fe Drive, Sun City, Arizona, 85351, USA.
(4)Cleo Roberts Clinical Center, Banner Sun Health Research Institute, 10515 W 
Santa Fe Drive, Sun City, Arizona, 85351, USA.
(5)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of Arizona College of Medicine, Phoenix, 
Arizona, USA.
(7)Arizona Alzheimer's Consortium, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(8)ASU-Banner Neurodegenerative Disease Research Center, Arizona State 
University, Tempe, AZ, USA.
(9)Atlantic Biomarkers, LLC, Alachua, FL, USA.
(10)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(11)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund 
University, Sölvegatan 19, BMC B11, Lund, 22184, Sweden. 
shorena.janelidze@med.lu.se.

There is an urgent need for accurate and validated methods to measure plasma 
phosphorylated tau (p-Tau) biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this 
study, we compared the performance of new commercially available plasma p-Tau217 
assay developed by ALZpath to other established p-Tau assays in an 
autopsy-confirmed sample. We included 72 participants from the Arizona Study of 
Aging and Neurodegenerative Disorders cohort, with antemortem plasma assessments 
and postmortem neuropathological examination. Plasma p-Tau217 was measured using 
the single molecule arrays (SIMOA)-based ALZpath immunoassay and plasma p-Tau217 
and p-Tau181 were analyzed with mesoscale discovery (MSD)-based immunoassays 
developed by Lilly Research Laboratories. Plasma biomarkers were compared with 
densities of post-mortem-assessed amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary changes. 
Levels of p-Tau217ALZpath, p-Tau217Lilly and p-Tau181Lilly were significantly 
associated with plaque (partial Spearman ρ = 0.58, ρ = 0.78, ρ = 0.65; 
p < 0.001) and neurofibrillary (ρ = 0.26, ρ = 0.51, ρ = 0.37; p < 0.05) density 
scores, adjusting for age, sex, and time of interval between blood sampling and 
death. All three biomarkers were also significantly associated with plaque 
density scores (p-Tau217ALZpath, ρ = 0.53; p-Tau217Lilly, ρ = 0.73; 
p-Tau181Lilly, ρ = 0.59; p < 0.001), when additionally adjusting for 
neurofibrillary density scores. However, only p-Tau217Lilly was significantly 
associated with neurofibrillary density scores (ρ = 0.32, p = 0.022), when 
adjusting for plaque density scores. The correlations of p-Tau217ALZpath and 
p-Tau181Lilly with plaque density scores were comparable, whereas p-Tau217Lilly 
exhibited significantly higher correlations with plaques (pdiff≤0.015) and 
neurofibrillary changes (pdiff≤0.004) than p-Tau217ALZpath. While 
p-Tau217ALZpath and p-Tau181Lilly predicted the presence of Alzheimer's disease 
neuropathological change (ADNC), Braak staging (Braak 0-IV vs. Braak V-VI) and 
CERAD neuritic plaque classification (low/sparse vs. moderate/frequent) with 
similar accuracies (area under the curve [AUC]range, 0.74-0.79), p-Tau217Lilly 
AUCs were significantly higher (AUCrange,0.82-0.89, pdiff≤0.024) than the AUCs 
of p-Tau217ALZpath. In conclusion, p-Tau217ALZpath exhibited similar performance 
as p-Tau181Lilly but its correlations with core measures of AD pathology were 
significantly lower in comparison with p-Tau217Lilly. Future studies are 
warranted to replicate these findings in larger independent cohorts.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-025-02064-2
PMCID: PMC12207803
PMID: 40588775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and participant 
consent: All experiments were conducted in accordance with the Declaration of 
Helsinki. The operations of the Brain and Body Donation Program are approved by 
Institutional Review Boards and all participants, or their legal representatives 
gave informed consent. Consent for publication: Figure 1 is original and created 
using BioRender.com. Competing interests: DB, GS, SJ report no disclosures. OH 
is a part-time employee of Eli Lilly, and he has previously acquired research 
support (for Lund University) from AVID Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, C2N 
Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Fujirebio, GE Healthcare, and Roche. In the past 
2 years, he has received consultancy/speaker fees from Alzpath, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Bristol Meyer Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo 
Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi and Siemens. TGB received paid consultancy from Biogen, 
Acadia Pharmaceuticals and Aprinoia Therapeutics; and has stock options with 
Vivid Genomics; and received honoraria from the NIH, Mayo Clinic, Stanford 
University, IOS Press– Journal of Parkinson’s Disease and the International 
Movement Disorders Association. AJ is a Founder/ CSO to Atlantic Biomarkers, LLC 
and has stock options with ALZpath. EMR is a cofounder and advisor of AlzPath, 
and a compensated scientific advisor to Alzheon, Denali, Enigma, Cognition 
Therapeutics, Retromer Therapeutics, and Vaxxinity.


60. Transl Neurodegener. 2025 Jul 1;14(1):33. doi: 10.1186/s40035-025-00490-9.

Immunization targeting diseased proteins in synucleinopathy and tauopathy: 
insights from clinical trials.

Zhan X(#)(1)(2), Wen G(#)(1), Wu X(1), Li JY(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Forensic Medicine, China Medical University, Shenyang, 110122, 
China.
(2)Neural Plasticity and Repair Unit, Department of Experimental Medical 
Science, Wallenberg Neuroscience Center, Lund University, BMC A10, 22184, Lund, 
Sweden.
(3)Neural Plasticity and Repair Unit, Department of Experimental Medical 
Science, Wallenberg Neuroscience Center, Lund University, BMC A10, 22184, Lund, 
Sweden. lijiayi@cmu.edu.cn.
(4)Health Sciences Institute, Key Laboratory of Major Chronic Diseases of 
Nervous System of Liaoning Province, China Medical University, Shenyang, 110122, 
China. lijiayi@cmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Synucleinopathies and tauopathies are neurodegenerative disorders characterized 
by the pathological accumulation of α-synuclein (α-syn) and tau proteins, 
respectively. These disorders are traditionally managed with symptomatic 
treatments without addressing the underlying pathologies. Recent advancements in 
passive immunotherapies, notably the FDA approval of the amyloid-beta 
(Aβ)-targeting antibody lecanemab, have sparked new hope in directly targeting 
pathological proteins. However, unlike the extracellular Aβ pathology, 
immunotherapies aimed at α-syn and tau, which predominantly form intracellular 
inclusions, face substantial challenges. To date, the therapeutic efficacy of 
five α-syn and 14 tau antibodies has been assessed in patients with 
synucleinopathies and tauopathies. These immunizations have demonstrated 
promising preclinical outcomes in alleviating pathological and behavioral 
deficits, but have not yielded significant clinical improvements in symptoms or 
measurable biomarkers. Therefore, a clear understanding of potential causes for 
the discrepancies between preclinical successes and clinical outcomes is 
critical for the successful translation of immunotherapy in the future. In this 
review, we examine existing passive immunotherapeutic strategies targeting α-syn 
and tau, specifically in patients with Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's 
disease. Lessons learned from initial trial failures are also discussed, 
including refinement of animal models, inclusion and stratification of 
participants, improvement of clinical evaluations, and development of 
biomarkers. Given the overlapping pathologies and clinical manifestations of 
synucleinopathies and tauopathies, we further explore the potential of combined 
therapies targeting co-pathologies, offering novel insights for future 
therapeutic development against these neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40035-025-00490-9
PMCID: PMC12211364
PMID: 40588759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.61. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70421. doi: 10.1002/alz.70421.

Plasma p-tau231 in the presenilin 1 E280A autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease 
kindred: A cross-sectional and longitudinal cohort study.

Malotaux V(1), Ashton NJ(2)(3)(4), Öhrfelt A(2), Chen Y(3), Su Y(3), 
Garcia-Ospina G(5), Guzman-Martínez C(5), Villegas-Lanau A(5), Gómez-Ramirez 
J(5), Giraldo-Chica M(5), Aguillon D(5), Tirado V(5), Baena A(5), Munoz C(5), 
Acosta-Baena N(5), Pruzin JJ(3), Ghisays V(3), Rios-Romenets S(5), Vila-Castelar 
C(1), Martínez JE(1)(6), Giudicessi A(1)(6), Tariot PN(3)(7), Zetterberg 
H(2)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12), Blennow K(8), Reiman EM(3)(7)(13)(14), Quiroz 
YT(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Inst. of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(3)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(4)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(5)Grupo de Neurociencias de Antioquia, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de 
Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(6)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Boston University, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(7)College of Medicine, University of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(9)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(10)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(11)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(12)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(13)Arizona State University, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(14)Translational Genomics Research Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Plasma phosphorylated tau (p-tau)-231 is a promising biomarker for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), particularly in preclinical stages. We evaluated its 
diagnostic value in presenilin 1 (PSEN1) E280A mutation carriers versus 
non-carriers and compared it to p-tau217 and neurofilament light chain (NfL).
METHODS: We analyzed plasma p-tau231 in 722 carriers and 640 non-carriers (ages 
18-75). Longitudinal data from 164 carriers and 132 non-carriers were available, 
with 137 carriers and 109 non-carriers having p-tau231, p-tau217, and NfL 
levels. Analyses used linear mixed effects models and restricted cubic splines.
RESULTS: E280A carriers had higher p-tau231 levels than non-carriers 
(9.0 ± 7.4 vs. 5.2 ± 3.4 pg/mL, P < 0.001). Baseline p-tau231 levels correlated 
with age, distinguishing carriers at age 23. Rates of change differed at age 19, 
≈ 25 years before cognitive impairment. In a subset, p-tau231 changes 
differentiated carriers by age 20, earlier than p-tau217 and NfL.
DISCUSSION: Plasma p-tau231 is a sensitive biomarker for early AD detection and 
progression monitoring.
HIGHLIGHTS: Plasma phosphorylated tau (p-tau)231 levels are associated with age 
in presenilin 1 carriers and non-carriers. Baseline p-tau231 levels diverged 
between carriers and non-carriers at age 23. Plasma p-tau231 changes 
distinguished carriers by age 19, at very early stages. P-tau231 longitudinal 
changes differentiate carriers earlier than p-tau217 or neurofilament light 
chain.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70421
PMCID: PMC12208796
PMID: 40588692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Quiroz has served as consultant for Biogen. 
Dr. Zetterberg has served on scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant 
for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
All other co‐authors have no competing interests. Author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


62. Nat Metab. 2025 Jul;7(7):1375-1391. doi: 10.1038/s42255-025-01314-w. Epub
2025  Jun 30.

Neuronal glycogen breakdown mitigates tauopathy via 
pentose-phosphate-pathway-mediated oxidative stress reduction.

Bar S(1), Wilson KA(1), Hilsabeck TAU(1), Alderfer S(1), Dammer EB(2)(3), Burton 
JB(1), Shah S(1), Holtz A(1), Carrera EM(1), Beck JN(1), Chen JH(1), Kauwe G(1), 
Seifar F(2)(4), Shantaraman A(4), Tracy TE(1), Seyfried NT(2)(4), Schilling 
B(1), Ellerby LM(1), Kapahi P(5).

Author information:
(1)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, Novato, CA, USA.
(2)Emory Center for Neurodegenerative Disease, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Emory University, School of Medicine Core Labs, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(5)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, Novato, CA, USA. 
pkapahi@buckinstitute.org.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2023 Nov 08:rs.3.rs-3526342. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-3526342/v1.

Tauopathies encompass a range of neurodegenerative disorders, such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with tau 
inclusions (FTLD-tau), for which there are currently no successful treatments. 
Here, we show impaired glycogen metabolism in the brain of a tauopathy 
Drosophila melanogaster model and people with AD, indicating a link between 
tauopathies and glycogen metabolism. We demonstrate that the breakdown of 
neuronal glycogen ameliorates the tauopathy phenotypes in flies and induced 
pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neurons from people with FTLD-tau. Glycogen 
breakdown redirects glucose flux to the pentose phosphate pathway and alleviates 
oxidative stress. Our findings uncover a critical role for the neuroprotective 
effects of dietary restriction (DR) by increasing glycogen breakdown. 
Mechanistically, we show a potential interaction between tau protein and 
glycogen, suggesting a vicious cycle in which tau binding promotes glycogen 
accumulation in neurons, which in turn exacerbates tau accumulation which 
further disrupts cellular homeostasis. Our studies identify impaired glycogen 
metabolism as a key hallmark for tauopathies and offer a promising therapeutic 
target in tauopathy and other neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s42255-025-01314-w
PMID: 40588539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: P.K. is a founder and a 
member of the scientific advisory board at Juvify Bio. The other authors have no 
competing interests.


63. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Aug;320(Pt 1):145647. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.145647. Epub 2025 Jun 28.

Formulation and evaluation of in-situ forming poloxamer-based hydrogel 
containing thiolated chitosan nanoparticles as intranasal galantamine delivery 
system.

Lotfi M(1), Nakhlband A(2), Doustmihan A(2), Omidi Y(3), Fathi M(4), Adibkia 
K(5).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Biomedicine Institute, 
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran; Department of 
Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Research Center for Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Biomedicine Institute, 
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Barry and Judy Silverman College of 
Pharmacy, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33328, USA.
(4)Research Center for Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Biomedicine Institute, 
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: 
fathim@tbzmed.ac.ir.
(5)Research Center for Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Biomedicine Institute, 
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran; Department of 
Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: adibkia@tbzmed.ac.ir.

Intranasal treatment enables circumvention of the blood-brain barrier with 
direct targeting of cerebral tissues. Here, in situ-forming hydrogel of 
Poloxamer 407 containing thiolated chitosan nanoparticles (TCS-NPs) was 
developed for nasal delivery of galantamine. The thiolation value was 
198.6 μmol/g. The NPs produced via the desolvation method exhibited a small 
particle size of around 98 nm and a galantamine entrapment efficiency of about 
40 %. TEM image showed spherical NPs around 100 nm. The hydrogel indicated a 
96 % release of the drug in 24 h. In the rheological studies, the formulation 
showed a higher G' and G'/G" ratio, indicating gel-like behavior suitable for 
intranasal delivery. The cellular uptake study demonstrated that the TCS-NPs and 
galantamine-loaded TCS-NPs were successfully internalized by A172 cells. The 
bioassays (MTT, DAPI staining, and live/dead) were performed on the A172 and 
Caco-2 cell lines and revealed the desired biocompatibility of the developed 
nanoformulation. Ex vivo testing indicated low levels of tissue damage and 
proved the higher mucoadhesive strength and mucosal retention time of 
TCS-NPs/poloxamer gel compared to CS-NPs/poloxamer gel. Considering the obtained 
results, the developed TCS-NPs/poloxamer hydrogel could be a promising delivery 
system for targeting drugs toward the brain via a minimally invasive approach.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.145647
PMID: 40588203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could influence the work reported in this manuscript.


64. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2025 Dec 1;128:130321. doi: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2025.130321.
 Epub 2025 Jun 28.

Desulfonylative halogenation of arene sulfonyl chlorides using 
N-halosuccinimides: Synthesis, molecular docking, and anti-Alzheimer activity.

Yadav V(1), Kumar R(2), Srikrishna S(2), Prasad V(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Institute of Science, Banaras Hindu University 
(BHU), Varanasi, India 221005.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Science, Banaras Hindu University 
(BHU), Varanasi, India 221005.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Institute of Science, Banaras Hindu University 
(BHU), Varanasi, India 221005. Electronic address: vprasad@bhu.ac.in.

Considering the significant biological potential of halogenated arenes, we 
developed a novel and eco-friendly method for accessing dihalogenated arenes 
viaN-halosuccinimide-promoted desulfonylative halogenation of arenesulfonyl 
chlorides under metal-free conditions. In silico evaluations of selected 
compounds for amyloid-beta (Aβ) protein interactions identified compounds 1d and 
2d as promising candidates, exhibiting strong binding potential and low toxicity 
in wild-type Oregon R flies. Furthermore, these compounds demonstrated 
significant neuroprotective activity in an Aβ-induced Alzheimer's disease model 
in Drosophila, emphasizing the need for further studies in higher organisms and 
detailed mechanistic investigations.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2025.130321
PMID: 40588173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


65. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Aug 29;352:120221. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120221.
Epub  2025 Jun 28.

Saikosaponin C ameliorates tau-related pathology by modulating oxidative stress 
and MAPK axis in Alzheimer's disease.

Chen D(1), Li R(2), She F(3), Chen J(4), Cho SM(5), Yang B(6), Tian Y(7), Guan 
L(8), Zheng X(9), Wang Q(10), Wang L(11), Park SW(12), Tao W(13), Zhang T(14), 
Kim BM(15), Lee TH(16).

Author information:
(1)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. Electronic 
address: dmchen88@fjmu.edu.cn.
(2)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. Electronic 
address: hupimao@live.com.
(3)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. Electronic 
address: Fei.She@outlook.com.
(4)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. Electronic 
address: 18150021261@163.com.
(5)Research Center for New Drug Development, AgingTarget Inc., Gwachen-si, 
Gyeonggi-do, 13840, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
smcho@agingtarget.com.
(6)Research Center for New Drug Development, AgingTarget Inc., Gwachen-si, 
Gyeonggi-do, 13840, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
byang@agingtarget.com.
(7)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. Electronic 
address: tian18615526627@163.com.
(8)Key Laboratory of Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative Diseases, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. 
Electronic address: leguan7647@163.com.
(9)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. Electronic 
address: zhangtailu66666@163.com.
(10)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. Electronic 
address: quling502959@163.com.
(11)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. Electronic 
address: wanglong@fjmu.edu.cn.
(12)Division of Endocrinology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, 02115, 
USA; Department of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 02115, USA. 
Electronic address: SangWon.Park@childrens.harvard.edu.
(13)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China; Key 
Laboratory of Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative Diseases, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. 
Electronic address: taowucheng@fjmu.edu.cn.
(14)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. Electronic 
address: taozh@fjmu.edu.cn.
(15)Research Center for New Drug Development, AgingTarget Inc., Gwachen-si, 
Gyeonggi-do, 13840, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
bmkim@agingtarget.com.
(16)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Institute of Basic Medicine, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350122, China. Electronic 
address: tlee0813@fjmu.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Saikosaponin C (SSc), a traditional Chinese 
herbal medicine, is a triterpene saponin and an active compound extracted from 
Radix Bupleuri. It has been demonstrated to have neuroprotective effects in 
cellular models of neurodegenerative diseases; however, its precise mechanism of 
action in alleviating tau pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD), as well as its 
potential to improve cognitive deficits in animal models, has not yet been 
elucidated.
AIM OF THE STUDY: In this study, we investigated the in vivo therapeutic effects 
of SSc on a human tau (hTau) mouse model expressing normal hTau isoforms in 
terms of tau-related pathology (tauopathy) and the underlying mechanisms.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: For the animal study, C57BL/6 mice received stereotaxic 
brain injections of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-hTau in the absence or presence 
of SSc. The Morris water maze test was employed to evaluate the therapeutic 
effects of SSc on memory and learning. Tau phosphorylation in the brain was 
assessed by immunofluorescence and Western blotting. Dendritic spine maturation, 
an indicator of synaptic plasticity, was determined by assessing doublecortin 
expression and performing automatic dendritic spine analysis. GFAP and Iba1 
immunoreactivity were observed as indicators of neuroinflammation. Dityrosine 
formation and superoxide dismutase 2 expression were measured to monitor 
oxidative stress. For the mechanistic study, RNA-Seq was used to identify 
tauopathy-related changes in gene expression. Furthermore, the effects of SSc on 
aluminum chloride (AlCl3)-induced cytotoxicity, oxidative stress, tau 
phosphorylation, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling were 
evaluated.
RESULTS: We found that SSc significantly relieved spatial memory impairment and 
alleviated the pathological hallmarks of AD-like tau, such as excessive tau 
phosphorylation and oxidative stress, in AAV-hTau-injected mice. SSc also 
relieved the deficit in dendritic spine density in mice with 
tauopathy-associated dementia. Neuroinflammation, another hallmark of AD-like 
pathology, was reduced by SSc treatment. Furthermore, SSc attenuated 
AlCl3-induced tau pathology, such as neurotoxicity and abnormal tau 
phosphorylation, by targeting oxidative stress and the downstream MAPK pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that SSc treatment ameliorates cognitive 
deficits and related tau pathological features in the hTau AD mouse model. The 
antioxidant effects of SSc might be responsible for the therapeutic potential of 
SSc in protecting against tau pathology and cognitive decline.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120221
PMID: 40588144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Byeong Mo Kim 
is a founder of and owns equity in AgingTarget Inc. Other authors do not have 
any competing interests.


66. Mol Pharm. 2025 Aug 4;22(8):4413-4434. doi:
10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.5c00277.  Epub 2025 Jun 30.

Nanomedicine for Treating Major Brain Diseases: Advances and Future Directions.

Sagar G(1), Wilson B(1), Kannoth Mukundan G(2), Divekar K(3), Jenita JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Dayananda 
Sagar University, Devarakaggalahalli, Harohalli, Kanakapura Road, Bengaluru 
562112, Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Dayananda 
Sagar University, Devarakaggalahalli, Harohalli, Kanakapura Road, Bengaluru 
562112, Karnataka, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Dayananda Sagar University, Devarakaggalahalli, Harohalli, Kanakapura Road, 
Bengaluru 562112, Karnataka, India.

Traditional drug delivery systems lack target specificity. Various 
macromolecules, which are useful to treat central nervous system (CNS) diseases, 
have failed in clinical trials. This is because the molecules fail to cross the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) effectively. The diseases of the brain are a major 
cause of disability and death. Various brain diseases affect 3.4 billion people 
worldwide. Nanomedicine, the medical application of nanotechnology for the 
diagnosis and treatment of diseases, improves drugs' solubility, stability, 
bioavailability, safety, and therapeutic efficacy. Site-specific ligand 
conjugated nanomedicine increases the target-specificity of nanomedicine toward 
specific receptors or determinants and delivers the drugs to the target organ. 
Nanomedicine provides better patient care while minimizing side effects and 
treatment cost. Further, it has the ability to change the traditional way of 
diagnosing and treating diseases. This review discusses recent advances in the 
usefulness of nanomedicine to treat major brain diseases such as Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and stroke. The article also addresses 
the challenges in the development of nanoformulation and associated 
nanotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.5c00277
PMID: 40587763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. PLoS One. 2025 Jun 30;20(6):e0327346. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0327346. 
eCollection 2025.

Knowledge and attitudes towards Alzheimer's disease among adult residents in 
Jiulongpo, Chongqing, China: A cross-sectional survey.

Zhang J(1)(2), Huang Y(1)(2), Jiang Y(2), Li T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Non-communicable Chronic Disease Control and Prevention, 
Disease Control and Prevention Center of Jiulongpo District, Chongqing, China.
(2)Research Center for Medicine and Social Development, School of Public Health, 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) continues to rise as the 
aging population increases, and the resulting cognitive decline severely affects 
patients' quality of life. However, the public's understanding of AD is markedly 
insufficient, which limits the effectiveness of early prevention and treatment. 
This study conducted a cross-sectional survey to assess the level of knowledge 
about AD among adult residents in Jiulongpo District, Chongqing, as well as 
their attitudes towards people with dementia, providing a basis for formulating 
targeted intervention strategies.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey was conducted in Jiulongpo, Chongqing, China, 
from September to October 2024. The self-reported questionnaire for participants 
included three parts: demographic information, the Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge 
Scale (ADKS), and the Dementia Attitude Scale (DAS). Multiple linear regression 
analysis was used to identify the main factors influencing AD knowledge and 
attitudes.
RESULTS: 1,362 respondents were surveyed, with 64.24% female. The age group of 
40-64 has the largest number of people, accounting for 38.03%. The average ADKS 
score was 17.67 (standard deviation = 2.47), with individual item score rates 
ranging from 16.01% to 89.72% across the 30 items. The domains with the lowest 
ADKS score rates were "Caregiving" (43.40%) and "Symptoms" (52.25%). The average 
score on the DAS was 81.72 (standard deviation = 11.19). The score rates for the 
"Dementia knowledge," "Positive social comfort," and "Negative social comfort" 
dimensions of the DAS were 61.56%, 55.02%, and 56.38%, respectively. Residents 
aged 18-39, living in urban areas, with higher education or above, working in 
healthcare, having a higher income level, being unmarried, and having experience 
in Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD) knowledge training have a 
higher level of knowledge about AD and a more positive attitude towards it. 
Residents with family members suffering from ADRD have lower DAS scores than 
those without such family members.
CONCLUSION: People's understanding of AD is limited, especially in the areas of 
"Caregiving" and "Symptoms", and they hold a neutral attitude toward dementia. 
We recommend intensifying health education efforts on AD knowledge across 
different populations, particularly emphasizing the promotion of knowledge in 
weak areas, while also cultivating their friendly attitudes towards dementia 
patients.

Copyright: © 2025 Zhang et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0327346
PMCID: PMC12208453
PMID: 40587504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


68. JAMA Neurol. 2025 Jun 30;82(8):797-807. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2025.1687. 
Online ahead of print.

Ambroxol as a Treatment for Parkinson Disease Dementia: A Randomized Clinical 
Trial.

Silveira CRA(1)(2), Coleman KKL(1)(2)(3), Borron K(1)(2), Tirona RG(2)(4), Rupar 
CA(2)(5)(6)(7), Zou G(3)(8), Hegele RA(2)(8)(9), Wellington C(10)(11), Stukas 
S(10)(11), Finger EC(1)(2)(12), Bartha R(8)(13), Morrow SA(1)(2)(12)(14), Wells 
JL(2)(15), Borrie MJ(2)(15), Mahuran D(16), MacDonald PA(12), Jenkins ME(2)(12), 
Jog MS(2)(12), Dresser G(9), Fox S(17), Camicioli R(18), Feagan B(8)(19), 
Mendonça DA(1), Mayich M(2)(20), Sharma MD(20), Pandey SK(20), Pasternak 
SH(1)(2)(8)(12).

Author information:
(1)Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease Research Centre, Parkwood 
Institute, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Lawson Research Institute, St Joseph's Health Care London, London, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Schulich School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Schulich School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western 
University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Schulich School of Medicine 
and Dentistry, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Robarts Research Institute, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(9)Department of Medicine, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western 
University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(11)Djavad Mowafaghian Center for Brain Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(12)Department of Clinical Neurological Science, Schulich School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(13)Department of Medical Biophysics, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(14)Department of Clinical Neurosciences Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University 
of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(15)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(16)Laboratory of Medicine and Pathobiology, The Hospital for Sick Children, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(17)Krembil Brain Institute, UHN, Division of Neurology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(18)Department Medicine (Neurology) and Neuroscience and Mental Health 
Institute, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 
Alberta, Canada.
(19)Alimentiv Inc, London, Ontario, Canada.
(20)Department of Medical Imaging, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.

IMPORTANCE: Carrying a variation in the gene for β-glucocerebrosidase is a major 
risk factor for Parkinson disease dementia (PDD), and raising 
β-glucocerebrosidase levels lowers α-synuclein in cell and animals. Ambroxol is 
a chaperone for β-glucocerebrosidase, which increases the levels of 
β-glucocerebrosidase.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the safety and tolerability of ambroxol in PDD, test the 
efficacy of ambroxol in improving or slowing the progression of cognitive 
deficits, and acquire pharmacological data.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This was a 52-week, phase 2, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial conducted from February 2015 to 
June 2023. The study took place at a single center and was referral based. 
Included were patients with PDD who were older than 50 years, had Parkinson 
disease for at least 1 year before cognitive impairment, had mild to moderate 
dementia, were taking stable medications, and had a study partner.
INTERVENTIONS: Ambroxol low dose (525 mg per day), high dose (1050 mg per day), 
or placebo.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Safety and tolerability outcomes were adverse 
events. Primary efficacy outcomes were the Alzheimer Disease Assessment 
Scale-cognitive subscale, version 13 (ADAS-Cog-13) and Clinician's Global 
Impression of Change (CGIC).
RESULTS: A total of 75 patients were screened, and 55 were randomized. 
Thirty-one individuals received ambroxol, with 8 patients (mean [SD] age, 78.8 
[3.4] years, all male) in the low-dose group and 22 patients (mean [SD] age, 
70.7 [7.6]; 19 male [86.4%]) in the high-dose group. One patient was excluded 
from the high-dose group due to a diagnosis of progressive supranuclear palsy. A 
total of 24 patients (mean [SD] age, 72.7 [6.3] years; 19 male [79.2%]) were 
included in the placebo group. Participants receiving ambroxol (23 of 193 
adverse events [12%]) showed more gastrointestinal adverse events than those 
receiving placebo (9 of 172 adverse events [5%]). Statistical analyses compared 
ambroxol high dose vs placebo. There was no evidence to suggest differences 
between groups on primary or secondary outcomes. Mean (SD) ambroxol high-dose 
concentrations were 7.48μM (3.17μM; 95% CI, 6.08-8.87μM) in plasma and 0.73μM 
(0.07μM; 95% CI, 0.64-0.81μM) in cerebrospinal fluid at the end of titration. 
Mean (SD) β-glucocerebrosidase levels were higher at week 26 (ambroxol, 12.45 
[1.97] nmol/h/mg; 91% CI, 11.54-13.36 nmol/h/mg); placebo, 8.50 [1.96] 
nmol/h/mg; 91% CI, 7.65-9.34 nmol/h/mg; P = .05) in the ambroxol group compared 
with placebo.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Results of this randomized clinical trial reveal that 
ambroxol was safe, well-tolerated, and demonstrated target engagement. However, 
the effect of ambroxol on cognition was not confirmed.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02914366.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2025.1687
PMCID: PMC12210149
PMID: 40587145

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Bartha 
reported receiving grants from Weston Family Foundation during the conduct of 
the study. Dr Borrie reported receiving advisory board fees from Eisai and Eli 
Lilly outside the submitted work. Dr Fox reported receiving research funding 
from Michael J Fox Foundation for Parkinson Research, National Institutes of 
Health (Dystonia Coalition), Parkinson Canada, and Weston Foundation; honoraria 
from the International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society; 
consultancy/speaker fees from AbbVie, Lundbeck, and Sunovion; and royalties from 
Oxford University Press. Dr Camicioli reported receiving grants from Canadian 
Institute for Health Research for research related to Parkinson disease and 
dementia and related disorders, Parkinson Canada and Brain Canada Canadian Open 
Parkinson Network as side co–lead investigator, Weston Foundation Clinical trial 
in Mild Cognitive Impairment, and National Institutes of Health site for 
clinical trial in Parkinson disease outside the submitted work. Dr Feagan 
reported receiving consulting from AbbVie, Abivax, Adiso, AgomAB Therapeutics, 
Akros, Alira Health, Ally Bridge Group, AnaptysBio, Apini Therapeutics, Argenx, 
Attovia Tx, Avoro Capital Advisors, Belmore Law, BioFactura, BioJamp, Biora 
Therapeutics, Blackbird Laboratories, Boehringer Ingelheim, Boxer Capital, 
Celsius Therapeutics, Celgene/BMS, Celltrion, Clarivate, Connect BioPharma, Disc 
Medicine, Duality, EcoR1, Eli Lilly, Ensho Therapeutics, Equillium, Evida, 
Enveda, Faes Farma, First Wave, Forbion, Galapagos, Galen Atlantica, 
Genentech/Roche, General Atlantic, Genesis Therapeutics, Gilead, Gossamer 
Pharma, GSK, Imhotex, ImmiDomics, Immunic Therapeutics, Intercept, Janssen, 
Japan Tobacco Inc, Klick Health, LifeMine Therapeutics, Mage Biologics, Merck, 
Mestag, Mirador Therapeutics, Mobius Care, Monte Rosa Tx, Morphic Therapeutics, 
Nexys Therapeutics, Nighthawk Therapeutics, Nimbus Therapeutics, Novartis, 
OncoC4, OrbiMed, Orphagen, Palisade Bio, Pendopharm, Pfizer, Protagonist, 32 
Bio, REDX, Roche, Roivant/Televant, Sanofi, Sobi, Sorriso, Spyre Therapeutics, 
SRT Therapeutics, Sun Pharma, Surrozen Inc, Synedgen, Takeda, Teva, Triastek, 
Trex Bio, TR1X Inc, TVM Lifesciences, Ventyx Biosciences, Versant Ventures, Vida 
Ventures, and Zagbio. Dr Pasternak reported receiving grants from Weston Brain 
Institute, Canadian Institute for Health Research, and Zywie Bio outside the 
submitted work; having a patent for Zywie Bio pending; and being a shareholder 
in Zywie Bio. No other disclosures were reported.


69. Drug Deliv Transl Res. 2025 Jun 30. doi: 10.1007/s13346-025-01906-9. Online 
ahead of print.

Plant-based flavonoids and their nanoparticles: Latest arsenal against 
Alzheimer's disease.

Kumbhar PS(#)(1), Kolekar KA(#)(2), Vishwas S(3), Kamble V(4), Bashir B(2), 
Patil KS(5), Bhagwat D(6), Gupta G(7)(8), Prasher P(9), Singh M(10), Singh 
SK(11)(12), Disouza J(13), Patravale VB(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Tatyasaheb Kore College of Pharmacy, 
Warananagar, Dist: Kolhapur Maharashtra, Tal: Panhala, India, 416 113.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
Punjab, 144 411, India.
(3)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, 140401, 
India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technology, Institute of Chemical 
Technology, Matunga, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India, 400 019.
(5)Department of Pharmacognosy, Tatyasaheb Kore College of Pharmacy, 
Warananagar, Dist: Kolhapur Maharashtra, Tal: Panhala, India, 416 113.
(6)Bharati Vidyapeeth College of Pharmacy, Kolhapur, Maharashtra, 416013, India.
(7)Centre for Research Impact & Outcome, Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara 
University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, India.
(8)Centre of Medical and Bio-Allied Health Sciences Research, Ajman University, 
Ajman, United Arab Emirates.
(9)Department of Chemistry, University of Petroleum & Energy Studies (UPES), 
Dehradun, India, 248007.
(10)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, JSS College of Pharmacy, JSS Academy 
of Higher and Research, Sri Shivarathreeshwara Nagara, Mysuru, 570015, India.
(11)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
Punjab, 144 411, India. singhsachin23@gmail.com.
(12)Sunway Biofunctional Molecules Discovery Centre (SBMDC), School of Medical 
and Life Sciences, Sunway University, Sunway, Malaysia. singhsachin23@gmail.com.
(13)Bombay Institute of Pharmacy and Research, Dombivli, Mumbai, Maharashtra, 
India, 421203. jidisouza@tkcpwarana.ac.in.
(14)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technology, Institute of Chemical 
Technology, Matunga, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India, 400 019. vbp_muict@yahoo.co.in.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent and emerging neurodegenerative 
disease and serves as the seventh biggest cause of mortality across the globe. 
The pathogenesis of AD is linked with multiple hallmarks. The applications of 
anti-AD therapeutics approved by the FDA have been restricted because of the 
least permeability, bioavailability, negative effects, and huge cost. Various 
flavonoids have attenuated the potential pathogenic biomarkers of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and reduced disease progression. However, the presence of the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB), limited permeability, bioavailability, and low 
stability are chief concerns associated with their delivery against AD. 
Therefore, they have been loaded into various nanoformulations, including PLGA 
nanoparticles, gold nanoparticles, NLCs, exosomes, cell membrane-coated 
nanocarriers, and microneedles, to improve brain targeting and enhance 
therapeutic effects at the site of action. This review focuses on the flavonoid 
as a potential natural therapeutics against AD. Diverse flavonoids explored to 
manage AD are discussed with their multiple anti-AD mechanisms. AD 
pathophysiology, current treatment strategies and its challenges, and the 
significance of using flavonoids against AD are explained. Moreover, role of 
NSCs in AD and potential of flavonoids in targeting NSCs is briefed. Challenges 
in the delivery of flavonoids against AD and diverse ground-breaking 
nanotechnological strategies employed to deliver these flavonoid-based 
therapeutics are discussed with manifold case studies. Also, the mechanisms of 
transport of NCs are explained. Further, flavonoids in clinical trials are 
briefed with conclusions and future concerns. In conclusion, flavonoid-based 
therapeutics and their delivery using breakthrough nanotechnological approaches 
hold promise for successfully managing AD.

© 2025. Controlled Release Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s13346-025-01906-9
PMID: 40587047

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not Applicable. Consent for publication: Not Applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


70. Biogerontology. 2025 Jun 30;26(4):135. doi: 10.1007/s10522-025-10277-0.

Translational potential of GADD45α: biomarker and therapeutic target in 
age-associated neurodegeneration and longevity.

Kazmi I(1), Al-Abbasi FA(2), Zeyadi M(2), Rafeeq M(3)(4), Habib AH(5), Iqbal 
J(6), Alzarea SI(7), Alsaidan OA(8), Nadeem MS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Sciences, King Abdulaziz University, 
21589, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. ikazmi@kau.edu.sa.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Sciences, King Abdulaziz University, 
21589, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Pharmacology Faculty of Medicine, Rabigh King Abdulaziz 
University, 21589, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Integral Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Integral University, 
Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, 226026, India.
(5)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, King Abdulaziz University, 
21589, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Jazan University, 
45142, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, Jouf University, 72341, 
Sakaka, Aljouf, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, Jouf University, 72341, 
Sakaka, Aljouf, Saudi Arabia.

Aging features a gradual decline in genomic integrity, epigenetic fidelity, and 
cellular homeostasis, driving the onset of chronic pathologies such as cancer, 
neurodegeneration, and metabolic disease. Growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible 
45 alpha (GADD45α) functions as a pivotal stress-response mediator, coordinating 
DNA repair, cell-cycle arrest, oxidative stress defence, mitochondrial quality 
control, and chromatin remodeling. Researchers have extensively studied GADD45α 
in tumor suppression, but its roles in healthy aging and age-related disorders 
remain underexplored. Here, we provide a comprehensive synthesis of recent 
findings illuminating GADD45α's contributions to aging biology. We detail its 
engagement with nucleotide and base excision repair pathways to preserve genome 
stability, enforce G₂/M checkpoints to prevent damaged DNA propagation, and 
promote mitochondrial resilience under oxidative challenge. We then examine how 
GADD45α modulates epigenetic landscapes, mitigating age-associated DNA 
methylation drift and sustaining chromatin plasticity, and highlight its 
emerging neuroprotective actions in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's models. 
Integrating multi-omics analyses, in vivo rodent investigations, and Drosophila 
lifespan assays, we establish GADD45α as a dynamic biomarker of cellular aging 
and a promising geroprotective target. Finally, we discuss translational 
strategies to harness GADD45α activity, ranging from small-molecule enhancers 
and epigenetic modifiers to precision gene-editing to reinforce DNA repair 
capacity, delay senescence onset, and extend organismal healthspan. This review 
reframes GADD45α from a cancer-centric effector to a versatile regulator of 
aging processes, underscoring its therapeutic potential for promoting healthy 
longevity.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-025-10277-0
PMID: 40586967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: Not applicable. Consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Consent to publish has 
been obtained from all authors.


71. Int J Biometeorol. 2025 Sep;69(9):2271-2283. doi: 10.1007/s00484-025-02963-y.
 Epub 2025 Jun 30.

Short-term effects of chemical and noise pollution during heat and cold waves on 
emergency hospital admissions in Madrid.

Ruiz-Páez R(1), López-Bueno JA(2), Díaz J(3), Navas MA(2), Linares C(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Alcalá, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Climate Change, Health and Urban Environment Reference Unit, Carlos III 
Institute of Health (Instituto de Salud Carlos III/ISCIII), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Climate Change, Health and Urban Environment Reference Unit, Carlos III 
Institute of Health (Instituto de Salud Carlos III/ISCIII), Madrid, Spain. 
j.diaz@isciii.es.

Cold and heatwaves and air pollution have a joint, direct impact on population 
health. The aim of this study was to evaluate the combined impact of chemical 
air and noise pollution on hospital admissions during warm and cold months, with 
a breakdown by age group. We conducted a time-series study of unscheduled 
emergency admissions by specific causes in Madrid across the period 2013-2018. 
The independent variables were daily mean concentrations of PM2.5, PM10, NO2, 
tropospheric ozone, noise, and maximum and minimum temperatures. Relative and 
attributable risks were calculated using generalised linear models with a 
Poisson link. During the warm months, stronger associations were found between: 
ozone and admissions due to respiratory, circulatory and neurological causes; 
NO2 and admissions due to respiratory diseases; and PM and admissions due to 
dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Heat had a greater effect on admissions due to 
neurological diseases. During the cold months, no association was found with any 
chemical air pollutant, except for NO2 and asthma-related admissions. By age, 
the greatest impacts were registered for PM, noise, cold and heat at ages ≥ 65 
years, and for noise, NO2 and cold at ages ≤ 14 years.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00484-025-02963-y
PMCID: PMC12479677
PMID: 40586883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. Disclaimer: The views expressed by the authors are not necessarily those 
of the institutions with which they are affiliated.


72. Org Biomol Chem. 2025 Jul 16;23(28):6773-6784. doi: 10.1039/d5ob00785b.

Synthesis, docking, in vitro and in silico investigations of novel tacrine 
derivatives as acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.

Reddy MM(1), J A(2), Reddy EK(1), Anwar S(1), C S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, School of Applied Science and Humanities, Vignan's 
Foundation for Science, Technology and Research University, Vadlamudi, Guntur 
522 213, Andhra Pradesh, India. shaikanwarcu@gmail.com.
(2)Centre for Integrative Omics Data Science (CIODS), Yenepoya (Deemed to be 
University), Mangalore, Karnataka, India - 575018.
(3)Department of Biotechnology & Microbiology, Dr Janaki Ammal Campus, Kannur 
University, Kannur 670001, Kerala, India.

Different cyclic ketones were used as substrates to synthesize tacrine 
derivatives to investigate their drug-like properties to identify a lead 
molecule for treating Alzheimer's disease (AD). The studies revealed that 
compound 3c, a tacrine-2-carboxylic ester, binds to the catalytically active 
site (CAS) of AChE with a glide score of -11.49 kcal mol-1 and binding energy of 
-75.04 kcal mol-1. In comparison, tacrine showed a glide score of -10.59 kcal 
mol-1 with a binding energy of -54.05 kcal mol-1. The interaction of tacrine and 
its derivative at the active site of AChE involves a hydrogen bond between 
Tyr124 and Ser125, as well as π-π stacking and cationic interactions with Trp86. 
Both tacrine and compound 3c exhibit similar interactions, and protein-ligand 
binding heavily relies on π-π stacking interactions, which serve as an indicator 
of the binding enthalpy. Most of the synthesized tacrine derivatives showed a 
good potency of less than 100 nM. Among the 16 analogues, compounds 3c, 3f, and 
3m were found to exhibit good potency of 46.8 nM, 45.9 nM and 13.6 nM, 
respectively, towards the inhibition of acetylcholinesterase. Molecular dynamics 
simulation confirmed the significant binding of compound 3c with an average RMSD 
value of 1.36 ± 0.14 Å. Therefore, compound 3c can be considered as a promising 
hit or lead derivative as a cholinesterase inhibitor for the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1039/d5ob00785b
PMID: 40586736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Aging Dis. 2025 Jun 25. doi: 10.14336/AD.2025.0338. Online ahead of print.

Glucose Metabolism, Lactate, Lactylation and Alzheimer's Disease.

Hai S(1), Hou Y(2)(3), Zhang M(1)(4), Gao X(5), Yang T(1), Shang X(3), Sun 
X(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110032, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Chifeng Municipal Hospital, Chifeng, Inner Mongolia 
024000, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110000, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Central Hospital of Dalian University of Technology, 
Dalian, Liaoning 116033, China.
(5)Science Experiment Center, China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning 
110122, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder primarily characterized 
by cognitive decline; however, its pathogenesis remains incompletely understood. 
In recent years, the role of lactate metabolism and its derived lactylation 
modifications in AD has received increasing attention. As a product of 
glycolysis, lactate is not only a key molecule in energy metabolism but also 
regulates gene expression and protein function through lactylation 
modifications. Studies have shown that in the brains of AD patients, glucose 
metabolism is significantly reduced, while glycolysis is upregulated, and 
lactate levels are elevated. Nevertheless, the research regarding the 
relationship between lactylation and AD remains limited. Building on recent 
advances in understanding lactylation in neurodegenerative diseases and related 
conditions, we analyze and explore the potential relationships between 
lactylation and AD from the perspectives of β-amyloid (Aβ) deposition, tau 
protein pathology, and neuroinflammation. In summary, lactylation, as a novel 
post-translational modification holds significant promise in elucidating the 
pathological mechanisms and advancing the treatment of AD. A deeper 
investigation into its molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks may open new 
avenues for the diagnosis and treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2025.0338
PMID: 40586382


74. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2025 Jul;39(7):e70343. doi: 10.1002/jbt.70343.

Taurine and Neuroprotection: A Potential Shield Against Methylglyoxal-Induced 
Toxicity in SH-SY5Y Cells.

Althobaiti NA(1), Alsharif I(2), Alhasani RH(3), Albalawi AE(4), Alshahrani 
MY(5), Almars AI(6)(7), Basabrain AA(6)(7), Alhashmi MH(6)(8), Alrayes ZR(9), 
Almohaimeed HM(10), Soliman MH(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Biology Department, College of Science and Humanities, Shaqra University, Al 
Quwaiiyah, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Biology, Jamoum University College, Umm Al-Qura University, 
Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah, 
Saudi Arabia.
(4)Faculty of Sciences, Department of Biology, University of Tabuk, Tabuk, Saudi 
Arabia.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, King Khalid University, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Medial Laboratory Sciences, Faculty of Applied Medical Science, 
King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Hematology Research Unit, King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz 
University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Toxicology and Forensic Sciences Unit, King Fahd Medical Research Center, 
King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(9)Department of Biology, College of Science, Jouf University, Sakaka, Saudi 
Arabia.
(10)Department of Basic Science, College of Medicine, Princess Nourah Bint 
Abdulrahman University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(11)Botany and Microbiology Department, Faculty of Science, Cairo University, 
Giza, Egypt.
(12)Biology Department, Faculty of Science, Taibah University, Yanbu, Saudi 
Arabia.

Methylglyoxal (MG) is thought to have harmful effects on Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). On the other hand, taurine demonstrates promising potential for treating 
AD. Therefore, we examined the neuroprotective properties of taurine against MG 
in the SH-SY5Y cells. We used the MTT assay to evaluate the effects of taurine 
(0.5, 1, and 1.5 mg/mL) and MG (1200 and 2400 μM) on SH-SY5Y cell viability. We 
measured the expression of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-17, and IL-1β in the target 
cell line after treatment with MG and taurine. Following the treatment of 
SH-SY5Y cells with MG and taurine, we evaluated the expression levels of 
microRNA (miRNA)-101a, miRNA-137, miRNA-222, and miRNA-29c genes using real-time 
PCR. Furthermore, the Neurogenesis Plus RT² Profiler PCR array was utilized to 
identify the expression of genes associated with neurogenesis. The survival 
results indicated that increasing taurine concentrations reduces the toxicity of 
MG in SH-SY5Y cells. Treatment of SH-SY5Y cells with taurine + MG decreased the 
expression levels of IL-6, IL-17, and IL-1β compared to those treated with MG 
(p < 0.05). Treatment with taurine led to increased expression of miRNA-101a, 
miRNA-137, miRNA-222, and miRNA-29c, with the highest levels observed at a 
concentration of 1 mg/mL (p < 0.001). The results showed that when SH-SY5Y cells 
are exposed to MG (2400 μM) + taurine (1.5 mg/mL), genes SHH, BMP2, ERBB2, 
NEUROG2, BDNF, POU3F3, PARD3, PAX3, NR2E3, NRP2, CXCL1, and EGF had a 
significant increase (p < 0.005). Taurine protects SH-SY5Y cells from MG-induced 
toxicity by enhancing cell viability, reducing inflammation, upregulating genes 
associated with neurogenesis, and upregulating specific miRNAs. This suggests 
taurine's potential as a therapeutic agent for conditions like AD. However, 
further in vivo studies and clinical trials are necessary to validate the 
therapeutic potential of taurine for AD.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.70343
PMID: 40586270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Geriatr Psychol Neuropsychiatr Vieil. 2025 Jun 1;23(2):235-253. doi: 
10.1684/pnv.2025.1231.

[Treatment of psychological and behavioral symptoms in dementia with Lewy bodies 
and Parkinson's disease dementia: Review of the literature and consensus using 
the Delphi method].

[Article in French]

Blanc F(1), Brangier A(2), Mouton A(3), Magnan N(4), Rabiant K(5), Auxire P(6), 
Schorr B(1), Roche J(7), Soto M(8), Delrieu J(8).

Author information:
(1)CM2R et service de gérontologie mobile-neuro-psy-recherche, pôle GeRMINED, 
hôpitaux universitaires de Strasbourg et laboratoire ICube, FMTS, UMR7357, CNRS 
et université de Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France.
(2)Department of Geriatric Medicine and Memory Clinic, Research Center on 
Autonomy and Longevity, University Hospital, Angers, et Gérontopôle des 
Pays-de-la-Loire, Nantes, France.
(3)Laboratoire CoBTeK, service clinique gériatrique du cerveau et du mouvement, 
centre hospitalier universitaire de Nice, université Côte d'Azur, Nice, France.
(4)Maison de retraite les Jardins de la Crau, Miramas, et centre mémoire du 
centre hospitalier intercommunal de Manosque, Manosque, France.
(5)Association France Alzheimer et maladies apparentées, Paris, France.
(6)Centre hospitalier Henri-Laborit, Poitiers, France.
(7)Service de psychogériatrie, pôle de gérontologie, CHU de Lille, Lille, France 
et Centre référent régional de psychiatrie de la personne âgée (CR3PA).
(8)Gerontopôle, Inserm U1027, Alzheimer's Disease Research and Clinical Center, 
Toulouse University Hospital, France.

Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) have 
frequent psychological and behavioral symptoms (PBS). Treatment of these PBS is 
variably validated We carried out a review of the treatment of PBS in DLB and 
PDD from 2009 to 2023. Where the literature allowed, we made treatment 
recommendations. When the literature was insufficient, we used the Delphi 
method. The following proposals were made: for pervasive and criticized 
hallucinations, donepezil or rivastigmine; for delusion, and Capgras syndrome 
(Delphi), low doses of clozapine; for depression, sertraline, venlafaxine or 
mirtazapine (Delphi); for RBD, immediate-release melatonin; for frontal 
syndrome, sertraline or paroxetine first then trazodone (Delphi); for catatonia, 
lorazepam. Our group's proposals should help to improve the care of DLB and PDD 
PBS, and thus enhance the quality of life of patients and caregivers.

DOI: 10.1684/pnv.2025.1231
PMID: 40586177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Geriatr Psychol Neuropsychiatr Vieil. 2025 Jun 1;23(2):161-167. doi: 
10.1684/pnv.2025.1232.

[Speech therapy after memory consultation: characteristics of patients receiving 
speech therapy sessions].

[Article in French]

Delphin-Combe F(1), Gervais F(2), Petit J(2), Moutet C(2), Garnier-Crussard 
A(3), Dauphinot V(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre mémoire de ressource et de recherche, hôpital des Charpennes, Institut 
du vieillissement, hospices civils de Lyon, Villeurbanne, France, Centre de 
formation universitaire d'orthophonie, Institut des science et technique de 
réadaptation, université Claude-Bernard Lyon-1, Lyon, France.
(2)Centre mémoire de ressource et de recherche, hôpital des Charpennes, Institut 
du vieillissement, hospices civils de Lyon, Villeurbanne, France.
(3)Centre mémoire de ressource et de recherche, hôpital des Charpennes, Institut 
du vieillissement, hospices civils de Lyon, Villeurbanne, France, Université de 
Normandie, Unicaen, Inserm, U1237, PhIND "Physiopathology and Imaging of 
Neurological Disorders", équipe Neuropresage, Cyceron, Caen, France, Université 
Claude-Bernard Lyon-1, France.

This real-life study aims to describe and compare the characteristics of 
patients who do or do not receive speech therapy after a memory consultation. 
Socio-demographic and medical data from the MEMORA cohort were matched with 
speech therapy reimbursement data from the French caisse primaire d'assurance 
maladie. Univariate analyses showed that speech therapy was more frequent in 
men, in patients with higher or secondary education, in patients suffering from 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and having a higher MMSE. The multivariate model showed 
that only the diagnosis of AD remained strongly associated with the presence of 
speech therapy. The diagnosis of AD is the characteristic associated with the 
highest probability of future speech therapy. Female gender, lower level of 
education and lower cognitive efficiency appear to be associated with a lower 
probability of speech therapy.

DOI: 10.1684/pnv.2025.1232
PMID: 40586175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2025 Jul;31(7):e70493. doi: 10.1111/cns.70493.

Downregulation of USP9X in the DG Region of the Hippocampus Leads to AD-Like 
Cognitive Dysfunction in Mice.

Qi X(1)(2), Ying M(1)(3), Wang A(1)(2), Shi K(1)(3), Zhong G(4), Lu Y(5), Liu 
C(1)(3), Guo Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Anhui Engineering Research Centre for Neural Regeneration Technology and 
Medical New Materials, Bengbu Medical University, Bengbu, China.
(2)School of Laboratory Medicine, Bengbu Medical University, Bengbu, China.
(3)School of Life Sciences, Bengbu Medical University, Bengbu, China.
(4)Affiliated Hospital of Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Pathology, Jinan, China.
(5)School of Clinical Medicine, Bengbu Medical University, Bengbu, China.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the link between ubiquitin-specific peptidase 
9 X-linked (USP9X) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis, aiming to identify 
potential targets for AD diagnosis, treatment, and drug development.
METHODS: We constructed a USP9X-inhibited expression mouse model and assessed 
cognitive and memory functions. We also measured Tau phosphorylation and APP 
levels in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) and analyzed neuronal functions, 
dendritic spine features, late apoptosis, and autophagy.
RESULTS: Mice with USP9Xinhibition exhibited impaired cognitive and memory 
functions. An increase in the APP levels and Tau hyperphosphorylation in the DG 
resembled AD-like pathology. Neurons exhibited abnormal functions, altered 
dendritic spine morphology, increase in neuronal apoptosis, and dysfunctions, 
similar to neuron loss observed in AD.
CONCLUSION: Investigating the role of USP9X in AD could provide valuable 
insights for developing novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.70493
PMCID: PMC12207322
PMID: 40586131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflicts of interest. All authors read and approved 
the final version of the manuscript.


78. Brain Commun. 2025 Jun 2;7(3):fcaf212. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf212. 
eCollection 2025.

Early brain iron changes in Parkinson's disease and isolated rapid eye movement 
sleep behaviour disorder: a four-year longitudinal multimodal quantitative MRI 
study.

Gaurav R(1)(2)(3), Lejeune FX(1)(4), Santin MD(1)(3), Valabrègue R(1)(3), Pérot 
JB(1)(2)(3), Pyatigorskaya N(1)(2)(3)(5), Mangone G(1)(6), Leu-Semenescu S(7), 
Villain N(1)(8), Habert MO(1)(9)(10), Vidailhet M(1)(2)(8), Arnulf I(1)(2)(7), 
Corvol JC(1)(6)(8), Lehéricy S(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Paris Brain Institute-ICM, Sorbonne University, INSERM U1127, CNRS UMR 7225, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris 75013, France.
(2)Movement Investigations and Therapeutics Team (MOV'IT), ICM, Paris 75013, 
France.
(3)Center for NeuroImaging Research (CENIR), ICM, Paris 75013, France.
(4)Data Analysis Core (DAC), ICM, Paris 75013, France.
(5)Department of Neuroradiology, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, AP-HP, Paris 75013, 
France.
(6)INSERM, Clinical Investigation Center for Neurosciences (CIC), 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris 75013, France.
(7)Sleep Disorders Unit, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, AP-HP, Paris 75013, France.
(8)Department of Neurology, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, AP-HP, Paris 75013, 
France.
(9)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, AP-HP, Paris 
75013, France.
(10)CNRS, INSERM, Laboratoire D'Imagerie Biomédicale, LIB, Sorbonne University, 
Paris F-75006, France.

Parkinson's disease demonstrates increased iron concentration in the substantia 
nigra (SN). The progression of iron and its interaction with neuromelanin 
content and dopaminergic dysregulation from prodromal to early-stage Parkinson's 
disease remain poorly understood. Using quantitative susceptibility mapping 
(QSM) and R2* relaxation rate, we investigated brain iron changes in patients 
with isolated rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behaviour disorder and early-stage 
Parkinson's disease. Subjects were scanned longitudinally at 3.0 Tesla MRI. QSM 
and R2* values were calculated in the entire SN and its anterior and posterior 
dorsal and ventral subdivisions. Baseline and longitudinal group differences 
were tested using analysis of variance of multiple linear regression models 
controlling for age and sex and linear mixed-effects modelling respectively. We 
included 44/36/28 healthy volunteers (HVs), 49/20/11 isolated REM sleep 
behaviour disorder, 127/88/50 Parkinson's disease at first/second/third visit 
respectively, separated by a 2-year interval. At baseline, there was a 
significant increase in QSM and R2* values in Parkinson's disease versus HVs in 
the posteroventral SN only (QSM: +17.6%%; R2*: +7.1%), which did not reach 
significance in isolated REM sleep behaviour disorder (QSM: +6.9%, R2*: +3.3%). 
Longitudinally, only posteroventral SN values demonstrated significant effects 
for Group and Visit using QSM and R2*. Further, the Group-by-Visit interaction 
was significant only for QSM. The posteroventral SN iron increased with disease 
duration and was inversely correlated with the changes in nigral neuromelanin 
content and striatal DaT levels in Parkinson's disease. The posteroventral 
nigral iron increased with the progression of the disease as well as 
dopaminergic denervation in Parkinson's disease. QSM was a stronger quantitative 
longitudinal marker than R2* in detecting regional nigral iron abnormalities as 
the disease progressed.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf212
PMCID: PMC12203178
PMID: 40585816

Conflict of interest statement: R.G., F.-X.L., M.D.S., R.V., J.-B.P., N.P., 
G.M., S.L.-S., M.-O.H., M.V. and S.L. has nothing to report. Independent of this 
work, Nicolas Villain received research support from Fondation 
Bettencourt-Schueller, Fondation Servier, Union Nationale pour les Intérêts de 
la Médecine (UNIM), Fondation Claude Pompidou, Fondation Alzheimer, Banque 
Publique d'Investissement and Fondation pour la Recherche sur l’Alzheimer; 
travel grant from the Movement Disorders Society, Merz-Pharma, UCB Pharma, and 
GE Healthcare SAS; is an unpaid local principal investigator or sub-investigator 
in NCT04241068 and NCT05310071 (aducanumab, Biogen), NCT05399888 (BIIB080, 
Biogen), NCT03352557 (gosuranemab, Biogen), NCT05463731 (remternetug, 
Eli-Lilly), NCT04592341 (gantenerumab, Roche), NCT03887455 (lecanemab, Eisai), 
NCT03828747 and NCT03289143 (semorinemab, Roche), NCT04619420 (JNJ-63733657, 
Janssen – Johnson & Johnson), NCT04374136 (AL001, Alector), NCT04592874 (AL002, 
Alector), NCT04867616 (bepranemab, UCB Pharma), NCT04777396 and NCT04777409 
(semaglutide, Novo Nordisk), NCT05469360 (NIO752, Novartis), is an unpaid 
national coordinator for NCT05564169 (masitinib, ABScience), NCT (AD04, 
ADvantage Therapeutics GmbH); has given unpaid lectures in symposia organized by 
Eisai and the Servier Foundation; has been an unpaid expert for Janssen – 
Johnson & Johnson. Isabelle Arnulf received honoraria from Idorsia Pharma, 
unrelated to this study. Jean-Christophe Corvol has served in advisory boards 
for Air Liquide, Biogen Inc., Denali, Ever Pharma, Idorsia, Prevail Therapeutic, 
Theranexus, UCB; has received grants from Sanofi and the Michael J Fox 
Foundation.


79. Brain Commun. 2025 Jun 14;7(3):fcaf239. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf239. 
eCollection 2025.

The temporal dynamics and clinical relevance of choroid plexus measures in 
multiple sclerosis.

De Meo E(1)(2), Al-Araji S(1), Kanber B(3)(4), Bianchi A(1), Yam CH(1)(5), 
Christensen R(1), Mohamud S(1), Wingrove J(1), Abdel-Mannan O(1), Aojula A(1), 
Champsas D(1)(6), Hamed W(1)(7), Hammam A(8), Wilkins D(9), He A(1), Hacohen 
Y(1)(6), Prados F(4)(10), Barkhof F(1)(3)(4)(11), Chard D(1)(3)(7), Ciccarelli 
O(1)(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)Queen Square MS Centre, Department of Neuroinflammation, UCL Queen Square 
Institute of Neurology, London, WC1B 5EH, UK.
(2)NEUROFARBA Department, University of Florence, 50100 Florence, Italy.
(3)National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) University College 
London Hospitals (UCLH) Biomedical Research Centre, London, WC1E 6BT, UK.
(4)Centre for Medical Image Computing, Department of Medical Physics and 
Biomedical Engineering, University College London, London, WC1V 6LJ, UK.
(5)Neurology Department, Cleveland Clinic London, London, SW1X 7HY, UK.
(6)Department of Neurology, Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, London, 
WC1N 1LE, UK.
(7)Neuroradiology Department, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, 
London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(8)Neuroradiology Department, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation, London, 
SE5 9RS, UK.
(9)Neurology Department, NHS, Redditch, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(10)eHealth Center, Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, Barcelona, 08018, Spain.
(11)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, VU University Medical Centre, 
Amsterdam, 1081 HV, Netherlands.

Choroid plexus enlargement is a promising biomarker of disease activity in 
multiple sclerosis. However, longitudinal changes in choroid plexus volume and 
microstructural integrity remain unclear. This study investigated temporal 
changes in choroid plexus measures and their correlations with clinical 
disability and brain volume changes over 18 months and the entire disease 
duration. We recruited consecutive relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis 
patients at treatment initiation who were then invited to come back for 
clinical, neuropsychological and brain MRI assessments at 6 and 18 months. 
Choroid plexus volume was measured using FreeSurfer and Gaussian Mixture Models 
on 3D-T1-weighted scans, and choroid plexus T1/T2 ratio was calculated from 
conventional 3D-T1- and T2-weighted images. Brain lesion, whole brain, grey 
matter, and white matter volumes were measured. Alternating conditional 
expectation algorithm was used to estimate trajectories of changes in choroid 
plexus measures over the entire disease course. Multiple linear regression and 
mixed effects models were used to investigate associations of choroid plexus 
measures with clinical and MRI measures. False discovery rate correction was 
applied. 422 RRMS patients were recruited [mean age: 40.8 years (SD 10.9), mean 
disease duration: 9.5 years (SD 17.4), median expanded disability status scale: 
2.0 (IQR: 1.5-3.5); mean symbol digit modalities test score: 50.6 (SD 14.7), 
mean brief visuospatial memory test-revised score: 25 (SD7.6)]; 276 participants 
were studied at 6-months follow-up and 80 at 18-months. During the entire 
disease course, an initial increase in normalized choroid plexus volume was 
observed, followed by a plateau; T1/T2 ratio decreased initially, but then 
increased once the volume had stabilized. When examining changes in choroid 
plexus volumes over a median follow-up of 8.6 months, significant increases in 
both choroid plexus volumes [β = 0.45, standard error = 0.11, False discovery 
rate-corrected P < 0.001)] and T1/T2 ratios (β = 0.29, standard error = 0.14, 
False discovery rate-corrected P = 0.05) were observed. A higher baseline 
choroid plexus T1/T2 ratio was linked to a faster rate of decrease in normalized 
brain volume (β = -0.21, standard error = 0.08, False discovery rate-corrected P 
= 0.01) and deep grey matter volume (β = -0.25, standard error = 0.10, False 
discovery rate-corrected P = 0.03) over time. Higher baseline choroid plexus 
T1/T2 values were associated with worsening performance on brief visuospatial 
memory test-revised over time (β = -0.23, standard error = 0.10, False discovery 
rate-corrected P = 0.04). Changes in choroid plexus measures over time appear 
non-linear, with volumes increasing earlier in the disease course and T1/T2 
ratios rising later. After a mean disease duration of 9.5 years, higher choroid 
plexus T1/T2 ratios, but not volume, predicted faster memory decline and whole 
brain and deep grey matter volume loss, underscoring the value of assessing 
choroid plexus microstructure, alongside volumes, in predicting clinical and MRI 
outcomes.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf239
PMCID: PMC12203544
PMID: 40585815

Conflict of interest statement: E.D.M. served as advisor for BMS and received 
speaker honoraria from Novartis; S.A.-A., B.K., A.B., C.H.-Y.Y., R.C., S.M., 
J.W., O.A.-M., A.A., D. Champsas, W.H., A.H., D.W., A.H., Y.H. and F.P. report 
no conflict of interests. F.B. acts as a consultant to Biogen, Janssen Alzheimer 
Immunotherapy, Bayer, Merck, Roche, Novartis, and Sanofi-Genzyme; he has 
received sponsorship from EU-H2020, NWO, SMSR, EU-FP7, Teva, Novartis, and 
Toshiba. P. Nachev: nothing to disclose. D. Chard is a consultant for 
Hoffmann-La Roche. In the last 3 years he has been a consultant for Biogen, has 
received research funding from Hoffmann-La Roche, the International Progressive 
MS Alliance, the MS Society, the Medical Research Council, and the National 
Institute for Health Research (NIHR) University College London Hospitals (UCLH) 
Biomedical Research Centre, and a speaker’s honorarium from Novartis. He 
co-supervises a clinical fellowship at the National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, London, which is supported by Merck. O.C. is an NIHR Research 
Professor (RP-2017-08-ST2-004); she is a member of independent DSMB for 
Novartis, gave a teaching talk on McDonald criteria in a Merck local symposium, 
and contributed to an Advisory Board for Biogen; she is Deputy Editor of 
Neurology, for which she receives an honorarium; she has received research grant 
support from the MS Society of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the NIHR UCLH 
Biomedical Research Centre, the Rosetree Trust, the National MS Society, and the 
NIHR-HTA.


80. Cureus. 2025 May 29;17(5):e85050. doi: 10.7759/cureus.85050. eCollection 2025
 May.

Real-Time Feedback Training to Improve Postural Control in a Patient With 
Femoral Neck Fracture and Severe Dementia: A Case Study.

Okada T(1), Shirakawa T(2).

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation, Matterhorn Rehabilitation Hospital, Hiroshima, JPN.
(2)Orthopedics, Matterhorn Rehabilitation Hospital, Hiroshima, JPN.

Older adults with Alzheimer's disease have a higher risk of falling compared to 
cognitively healthy individuals, partly due to the combined presence of 
cognitive decline and motor impairments. In older adults with severe dementia, 
conventional balance training is often difficult to implement because of reduced 
comprehension and difficulty following complex instructions. To address these 
challenges, there is increasing interest in balance interventions that are 
cognitively accessible, feasible under static conditions, and do not rely 
heavily on active motor learning or verbal instruction. Balance training using 
the Balance Adjustment System (BASYS) (Tec Gihan Co., Ltd., Kyoto, Japan) can be 
performed in a static standing position and is expected to offer clinical 
benefits. This case study examined the changes observed following BASYS-based 
balance training, which reduces body sway in real-time, on balance improvement. 
The subject was a 97-year-old female patient with severe Alzheimer's disease and 
a femoral neck fracture. Conventional balance training was used initially, 
followed by an intervention phase of balance training with BASYS. The observed 
changes following the intervention were assessed based on changes in functional 
balance and center of pressure (COP) parameters during static standing. 
Improvements in both functional balance and COP parameters were observed during 
the period in which balance training with BASYS was implemented. Furthermore, 
spectral analysis of the anterior-posterior (AP) component of the COP revealed a 
reduction in the relative power of the mid- and low-frequency bands of the AP 
spectral density, which may suggest potential alterations in balance control 
mechanisms. These findings suggest that a static standing approach could support 
balance training in patients with severe dementia.

Copyright © 2025, Okada et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.85050
PMCID: PMC12205966
PMID: 40585654

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Ethics committee of the Matterhorn Rehabilitation Hospital issued approval 
MRH24002. This is to inform you that the Institutional Review Board at 
Matterhorn Rehabilitation Hospital has approved your research protocol titled 
“Real-Time Body Sway Reduction Improving COP Control in a Femoral Neck Fracture 
Patient with Severe Dementia” as of 2024/12/26. The IRB approval number is 
MRH24002. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


81. Bioact Mater. 2025 Jun 13;52:366-392. doi: 10.1016/j.bioactmat.2025.06.022. 
eCollection 2025 Oct.

Research trends of piezoelectric materials in neurodegenerative disease 
applications.

Wang X(1), Sun Y(1), Han C(1), Meng X(1), Wen K(1), Wu J(1), Min P(1), Li K(1), 
Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Shanghai Ninth People's 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200011, 
China.

Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and huntington's disease, 
pose significant threats to human health, with current treatment options 
remaining limited. Piezoelectric materials, known for their ability to convert 
mechanical energy into electrical signals at the nanoscale, hold great promise 
in the diagnosis and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases due to their 
excellent electromechanical properties, environmental stability, and 
sensitivity. This review systematically outlines the working principles and 
classifications of piezoelectric materials. Subsequently, the recent advances in 
piezoelectric materials and their applications in the diagnosis and treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases are highlighted. Finally, the challenges and 
perspectives regarding the development of future piezoelectric materials are 
discussed. This review aims to provide a comprehensive reference for the further 
application of piezoelectric materials in neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioactmat.2025.06.022
PMCID: PMC12206050
PMID: 40585388

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


82. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 19:rs.3.rs-6735123. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-6735123/v1.

Genetics of PLCG2 expression and splicing relative to Alzheimer's disease risk.

Turner AK(1), Dotson K(1), Qiao Q(1), Cain K(1), Simpson JF(1), Fardo DW(1), 
Estus S(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Kentucky.

BACKGROUND: PLCG2 is associated with the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
through a rare missense polymorphism, rs72824905 (P522R) as well as a common 
variant, rs12445675, within a long non-coding RNA adjacent to PLCG2. Elucidating 
the impact of genetics on PLCG2 expression and splicing will provide insights 
into the role of PLCG2 in AD risk and, potentially, treatments that might reduce 
AD risk.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate PLCG2 expression and splicing as a function of AD 
genetics.
METHODS: PLCG2 isoform expression was detected by PCR and quantified by qPCR in 
AD and non-AD brain samples and in blood buffy coat samples. The function of a 
genetic variant, rs107164, was tested by using a minigene approach with both 
alleles in murine BV-2 microglial cells. The impact of ectopic splicing factor 
expression on PLCG2 minigene splicing was also tested in BV-2 cells. The extent 
that endogenous levels of a novel PLCG2 mRNA isoform lacking 65 bp within exon 
28 (D65-PLCG2) were affected by nonsense mediated decay (NMD) was determined by 
using cycloheximide in vitro. Lastly, whether D65-PLCG2 manifested a Ca + 2 
response similar to PLCG2 was tested by comparing D65-PLCG2-GFP and PLCG2-GFP 
fusion proteins in transfected HEK293 cells.
RESULTS: We report PLCG2 isoforms that include (i) a transcript that replaces 
PLCG2 exon 1 with sequence from an adjacent long noncoding (LNC) RNA (LNC-PLCG2) 
and (ii) a transcript that lacks 65 bp from the beginning of exon 28 
(D65-PLCG2). The ratio of LNC-PLCG2 to canonical PLCG2 was associated with 
rs12445675 genotype in both human brain and buffy coat samples. The proportion 
of PLCG2 expressed as D65-PLCG2 was increased by the T allele of rs1071644, a 
T/C SNP within the 65bp variably spliced portion of exon 28. This SNP was 
demonstrated to be functional in a minigene splicing assay. Moreover, the 
rs1071644-T allele was found to be associated with increased AD risk, 
independent of rs72824905 (P522R) and rs12445675. D65-PLCG2 was susceptible to 
nonsense mediated RNA decay. D65-PLCG2 was not responsive to Ca+ 2 in a fashion 
similar to that observed for PLCG2. Hence, the rs1071644-T allele appears to 
increase AD risk by increasing the proportion of PLCG2 expressed as D65-PLCG2, 
representing a loss of PLCG2 function.
CONCLUSIONS: We report that two AD genetic risk factors, rs12445675 and 
rs1071644, affect AD risk by impacting the LNC-PLCG2 to PLCG2 ratio and PLCG2 
exon 28 splicing, respectively.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6735123/v1
PMCID: PMC12204370
PMID: 40585241

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


83. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 17:rs.3.rs-6874797. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-6874797/v1.

Longitudinal pharmacokinetic and safety studies for dose optimization of a 
brain- penetrating erythropoietin for Alzheimer's disease.

Chang R(1), Chandrashekar DV(1), Roules GC(1), Jagadeesan N(1), Iwasaki E(1), 
Oyegbesan A(1), Davtyan H(2), Sumbria RK(1).

Author information:
(1)Chapman University.
(2)University of California.

BACKGROUND: Erythropoietin (EPO) is a potential therapeutic for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), but has limited brain penetration, requiring high systemic doses 
that lead to hematopoietic side effects. To overcome this, EPO was conjugated 
with a transferrin receptor monoclonal antibody (TfRMAb) to enhance blood-brain 
barrier transport. This study assessed the pharmacokinetics (PK), safety, and 
efficacy of this modified EPO after repeated dosing in mice.
METHODS: For the PK and safety study, a multidose design was employed with 
10-week-old C57 male mice (n=4-5/dose) receiving low (1 mg/kg), mid (3 and 6 
mg/kg), or high (20 mg/kg) doses SQ for 4 weeks, aimed to evaluate the 
dose-dependent plasma concentrations and biodistribution, and metabolic and 
hematologic safety of the modified EPO. The dose that resulted in the highest 
safety and sustained plasma exposure was then dosed SQ to 5.5-month-old male 
APPSAA KI mice (n=6) for 14 weeks. Controls included vehicle-treated APPSAA KI 
and APP wild-type mice (n=4-5/group). The effect of modified EPO on Aβ load by 
immunoassays and spatial memory via the Y-maze test were assessed.
RESULTS: The 1 mg/kg dose showed no adverse effects and sustained brain and 
plasma exposure following repeated dosing, making it suitable for longitudinal 
treatment. Mid and high doses reduced plasma and brain exposure, and altered 
hematocrit, TfR expression, and spleen weight; changes that were largely 
reversible upon treatment cessation. Reduced plasma exposure at mid and high 
doses was not completely explained by increased TfR expression, anti-drug 
antibodies, tissue sequestration, or EPO receptor expression. Subsequently, 
5.5-month-old APPSAA KI mice received 1 mg/kg TfRMAb-EPO SQ for 14 weeks. 
Modified EPO significantly reduced brain Aβ load (70-80%, p<0.001) and 
aggregated Aβ (p<0.05), and improved spatial memory, indicated by a higher 
discrimination index in the Y maze test (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: With the advancement of TfRMAb-based therapeutics into clinical 
trials for AD, these findings are particularly significant. They offer essential 
preclinical data to guide dose optimization in longitudinal studies using 
TfRMAb-based therapeutics, specifically modified-EPO, and show the robust 
therapeutic potential of low-dose brain-penetrating EPO in the APPSAA KI AD 
mouse model.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6874797/v1
PMCID: PMC12204373
PMID: 40585228

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


84. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 20:2025.06.20.25329948. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.20.25329948.

A Comprehensive Study of Circulating Blood Linear RNA nominates CD55 and DLD as 
novel causal genes and early-stage biomarkers for Parkinson's Disease.

Beric A(1)(2), Sahin S(1)(2), Sanchez S(1)(2), Yang Z(1)(2), Kumar R(1)(2), 
Alfradique-Dunham I(3), Sanford J(1)(2), Western D(1)(2), Phillips B(1)(2), 
Budde JP(1)(2), Perrin RJ(4), Kotzbauer PT(3), Perlmutter JS(3)(5)(6)(7)(8), 
Norris SA(3)(5), Cruchaga C(1)(2)(3)(9)(10)(11), Ibanez L(1)(2)(3)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in Saint Louis School of 
Medicine.
(2)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University in Saint Louis 
School of Medicine.
(3)Department of Neurology, Washington University in Saint Louis School of 
Medicine.
(4)Department of Pathology & Immunology, Washington University in Saint Louis 
School of Medicine.
(5)Department of Radiology, Washington University in Saint Louis School of 
Medicine.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Washington University in Saint Louis School of 
Medicine.
(7)Program of Physical Therapy, Washington University in Saint Louis School of 
Medicine.
(8)Department of Occupational Therapy, Washington University in Saint Louis 
School of Medicine.
(9)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University in Saint Louis 
School of Medicine.
(10)The Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, 
Washington University in Saint Louis.
(11)Department of Genetics, Washington University in Saint Louis School of 
Medicine.

We leveraged transcriptomic data from 4,343 participants from four independent 
datasets to robustly identify and annotate circulating PD-associated 
transcripts. We identified 296 differentially expressed transcripts, 28 of which 
were transcribed from known PD-associated loci. Further, we found a significant 
overlap between our findings and transcripts dysregulated in brain, as well as 
proteins differentially accumulated in CSF. Expression of the identified 
transcripts was affected by genetic background including ancestry and PD-related 
mutations, and nearly half of the identified transcripts were dysregulated 
before symptom onset. The differentially expressed transcripts were utilized to 
develop three predictive models that distinguished between PD and healthy 
controls with a ROC AUC of 0.727-0.733. The predictive models were capable of 
detecting PD transcriptomic signatures even before symptom onset. One 
transcript, DLD, showed particular promise as an early stage, minimally invasive 
PD biomarker that was differentially expressed in whole blood, brain and CSF. 
This transcript significantly related to PD in the eQTL analyses and in two of 
the three predictive models.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.20.25329948
PMCID: PMC12204277
PMID: 40585127

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests The funders of the study had 
no role in the collection, analysis, or interpretation of data; in the writing 
of the report; or in the decision to submit the paper for publication. CC is a 
member of the advisory board of Vivid genetics, Halia Therapeutics and ADx 
Healthcare and has received research support from Biogen, EISAI, Alector and 
Parabon. The rest of the authors report no conflict of interest.


85. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 11:2025.06.10.25329342. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.10.25329342.

Characterizing spatiotemporal white matter hyperintensity pathophysiology in 
vivo to disentangle vascular and neurodegenerative contributions.

Parent O(1)(2), Alasmar Z(1)(2), Osborne S(1), Bussy A(1)(2), Costantino 
M(1)(2), Fouquet JP(1), Quesada D(2), Pastor-Bernier A(3)(4), Fajardo-Valdez 
A(3), Pichet-Binette A(5)(6), McQuarrie A(7), Maranzano J(8)(9), Devenyi 
GA(1)(10), Steele CJ(11)(12), Villeneuve S(1)(3)(10)(13); PREVENT-AD Research 
Group; Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI); Dadar M(1)(2)(10), 
Chakravarty MM(1)(2)(10)(14).

Author information:
(1)Cerebral Imaging Centre, Douglas Mental Health University Institute, 
Montreal, Canada.
(2)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(3)Center for the Studies in the Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease, Douglas 
Mental Health University Institute, Montreal, Canada.
(4)Centre d'études avancées en médecine du sommeil, Université de Montreal, 
Montreal, Canada.
(5)Département de pharmacologie et physiologie, Université de Montréal, 
Montreal, Canada.
(6)Centre de recherche de l'Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal, 
Montreal, Canada.
(7)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(8)Département d'Anatomie, Université du Québec à Trois-Rivières, 
Trois-Rivières, Canada.
(9)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, 
Canada.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(11)Department of Psychology, Concordia University, Montreal, Canada.
(12)Department of Neurology, Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain 
Sciences, Leipzig, Germany.
(13)McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal, 
Canada.
(14)Department of Biomedical Engineering, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) are neuroimaging markers widely interpreted 
as caused by cerebral small vessel disease, yet emerging evidence suggests that 
a subset may have a neurodegenerative etiology. Current imaging methods have 
lacked the specificity to disentangle biological processes underlying WMHs in 
vivo. Here, we used voxel-level normative modeling and seven microstructural MRI 
markers with complementary biophysical sensitivities to generate single-subject 
high-resolution WMH pathophysiology maps in a large cohort (n=32,526). We 
calculated data-driven spatial patterns of similar WMHs, revealing distinct 
periventricular, posterior, and anterior clusters. We identified a reproducible 
WMH signature linked to dementia and Alzheimer's disease, characterized by a 
posterior predominance and a pathophysiological pattern indicative of selective 
fiber degeneration. Posterior WMHs connected cortical regions vulnerable to tau 
pathology. Our framework distinguishes vascular and neurodegenerative 
contributions of WMHs in vivo, which could alter the course of treatment 
strategies and provide nuanced interpretations of research findings.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.10.25329342
PMCID: PMC12204449
PMID: 40585093

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors declare no 
competing interests


86. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 10:2025.01.02.25319880. doi: 
10.1101/2025.01.02.25319880.

Integrating GWAS and Transcriptomic Data Using PrediXcan and Multimodal Deep 
Learning Reveals Genetic Basis and Drug Repositioning Opportunities for 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Tian X, Su Y, Zhang S, Chen C, Ma Y, Sun H, Chen C, Zhou W, Gao Y, Zhou L, Lv X, 
Roussos P, Zhang W.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the leading cause of dementia, imposes a significant 
societal and economic burden; however, its complex molecular mechanisms remain 
unclear. This study integrates multi-omics data with advanced artificial 
intelligence (AI) methods to uncover the molecular basis underlying AD phenotype 
regulation and explore personalized drug repositioning strategies based on 
individual genetic backgrounds. First, we applied the PrediXcan method to 
identify candidate genes closely associated with AD cognitive diagnosis, 
selecting from 61 brain-related traits. We validated these findings through 
individual-level analysis using gene expression and genotype data from 553 
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex samples in the ROSMAP database. Simultaneously, 
we constructed a deep, multi-layer information fusion model (AD-MIF) by 
integrating genotype and gene expression data and employing autoencoders as well 
as graph autoencoders for multi-modal feature extraction. The results revealed a 
10-20% improvement in the Area Under the Curve (AUC) for predicting AD-related 
phenotypes. Both approaches showed high consistency across cellular structures, 
brain regions, and neurobiological pathways, demonstrating their complementary 
advantages. Gene enrichment analysis indicated that APOE and its interacting 
gene APOC1 play a central role in cholesterol metabolism, lipid transport, and 
immune regulation, while genes such as SCIMP and KAT8 are involved in immune 
signaling, epigenetic regulation, and neuroprotection. After incorporating 
attention mechanisms, AD-MIF highlighted the importance of key genes, such as 
POLR2C and TRAPPC4, in regulating neuronal function. Based on predictive results 
and enrichment analysis, we further identified candidate drugs, including 
sirolimus, dasatinib, and MGCD-265. In vivo experiments confirmed that MGCD-265, 
also known as Glesatinib, and dasatinib significantly improve cognitive deficits 
in the SAMP8 AD model mice by inhibiting neuroinflammation, pathological tau 
phosphorylation, and Aβ deposition. This study demonstrates the complementary 
advantages of bioinformatics pipelines and AI-based multi-modal fusion methods 
in elucidating the complex pathological mechanisms of AD and enhancing phenotype 
prediction accuracy. It also provides new theoretical support for personalized 
drug interventions based on individual genetic characteristics, laying a solid 
foundation for optimizing early screening, prediction, and personalized 
treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.01.02.25319880
PMCID: PMC12204425
PMID: 40585083


87. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 11:2025.06.10.25328978. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.10.25328978.

Structural Similarity Networks Reveal Brain Vulnerability in Dementia.

Montagnese M(1), Ebneabbasi A(2), García-San-Martín N(3), Pecci-Terroba C(1), 
Romero-García R(3)(4)(5), Morgan SE(6)(7), Cole JH(8)(9), Seidlitz 
J(10)(11)(12)(13), Rittman T(2), Bethlehem RAI(1)(14)(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing Pl, Cambridge, CB2 
3EB, UK.
(2)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, Herchel Smith 
Building, Robinson Way, Cambridge, CB2 0SZ, UK.
(3)Department of Medical Physiology and Biophysics, University of Seville, C. 
San Fernando, 4, 41004 Sevilla, Spain.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Herchel Smith Building, 
Robinson Way, Cambridge, CB2 0SZ, UK.
(5)Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla (IBiS), HUVR/CSIC/University of Seville / 
CIBERSAM, ISCIII, C. Antonio Maura Montaner, 41013 Sevilla, Spain.
(6)School of Biomedical Engineering and Imaging Sciences, King's College London, 
Becket House, 1 Lambeth Palace Road, London SE1 7EU, UK.
(7)Department of Computer Science and Technology, University of Cambridge, 
William Gates Building, 15 JJ Thomson Ave, Cambridge CB3 0FD, UK.
(8)Department of Computer Science, Hawkes Institute, University College London, 
90 High Holborn, London WC1V 6LJ, UK.
(9)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(10)Lifespan Brain Institute, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and Penn 
Medicine, 3401 Civic Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 
19104, USA.
(12)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, The 
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 3401 Civic Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 
19104, USA.
(13)Institute for Translational Medicine and Therapeutics, University of 
Pennsylvania, 3400 Civic Center Boulevard, Building 421, Philadelphia, PA 
19104-5158, USA.
(14)Autism Research Centre, Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, 
Douglas House, 18b Trumpington Road, Cambridge, CB2 8AH, UK.
(15)Brain Mapping Unit, Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, 
Forvie Site, Robinson Way, Cambridge, CB2 2PZ, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterised by inter-individual 
heterogeneity in brain degeneration, limiting diagnostic and prognostic 
precision. We present a novel framework integrating Morphometric Inverse 
Divergence (MIND) networks with hierarchical Bayesian large-scale population 
modelling to identify individual-level neuroanatomical deviations.
METHODS: MIND networks quantify similarity between brain regions using 
multivariate MRI features. A normative model of regional MIND values trained on 
UK Biobank (N=35,133) was applied to the National Alzheimer's Coordinating 
Center cohort (N=3,567). We examined brain deviations across clinical stages, 
APOE genotypes, mortality risk, and neuropathological burden.
RESULTS: Negative deviations (reduced MIND) stratified disease stages (p<0.01) 
and showed functional network enrichment in AD. Greater negative deviations 
characterised APOE ε4 homozygotes and correlated with postmortem 
neuropathological severity (p=0.032). Neurobiological decoding revealed 
associations with neurotransmitter receptor distributions and cortical 
organisation properties.
DISCUSSION: This population neuroimaging modelling enables individualised brain 
mapping with direct utility for diagnosis, prognosis, and understanding of 
biological mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.10.25328978
PMCID: PMC12204435
PMID: 40585075

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest JS holds equity in and is 
a director of Centile Bioscience. RAIB holds equity in and is a director of 
Centile Bioscience. All other authors report no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript.


88. Bioimpacts. 2025 Apr 21;15:30795. doi: 10.34172/bi.30795. eCollection 2025.

The promise of gene therapy in common types of dementia.

Ghobadi M(1), Heidari MF(2), Farhadi A(3), Shakerimoghaddam A(4), Ghorbani 
M(1)(2), Hami Z(5), Ehtesham N(6), Behroozi J(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Epidemiology Research Center, Aja University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, School of Allied Health Medicine, 
AJA Univers.
(3)Department of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, School of Medicine, Zanjan 
University of Medical Sciences, Zanjan, Iran.
(4)Infectious Diseases Research Center, AJA University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(5)Toxicology Research Center, AJA University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Meical Genetics, School of Medicine, Iranshahr University of 
Medical Sciences, Iranshahr, Iran.

Dementia is an umbrella term describing different types of diseases that lead to 
cognitive impairment and memory dysfunction, predominantly affecting older 
adults. The most common forms include Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular 
dementia (VaD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and frontotemporal dementia 
(FTD). Despite extensive research, there is no definitive cure for dementia, 
primarily due to its complex and multifactorial nature, particularly the role of 
genetic abnormalities. Gene therapy, a novel therapeutic approach, aims to 
correct defective genes or introduce functional gene products by delivering 
specific DNA sequences to patients, and is often considered for individuals 
unresponsive to conventional treatments, such as those with dementia. Over the 
past decade, significant research has explored the potential of gene therapy in 
dementia, offering new hope for more effective treatments. However, several 
challenges remain in its practical application. One key challenge is developing 
safe and efficient gene delivery methods, as the brain's intricate structure and 
protective barriers present significant obstacles. Furthermore, ensuring the 
long-term expression and stability of therapeutic genes is crucial for sustained 
benefit. Future studies should focus on identifying genes implicated in 
different types of dementia, optimizing gene delivery systems, improving 
gene-targeting specificity, and conducting comprehensive clinical trials to 
assess the safety and efficacy of these therapies. Addressing these challenges 
could pave the way for novel treatment strategies, ultimately improving the 
quality of life for individuals with dementia.

© 2025 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.34172/bi.30795
PMCID: PMC12204781
PMID: 40584900

Conflict of interest statement: None to be declared.


89. IBRO Neurosci Rep. 2025 May 29;19:72-82. doi: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.05.016. 
eCollection 2025 Dec.

A meta-analysis update evaluating the treatment effects of donepezil alone 
versus donepezil combined with memantine for Alzheimer's disease.

Hajihosseini S(1), Zakavi SA(2), Farrokhi Z(3), Amanzadeh M(4), Panahi P(5), 
Mahram M(6), Eftekhari N(7), Noroozi M(8), Ebrahimi MJ(9), Alizadeh A(10), 
Refahi P(11), Bafrani MA(12), Moafi M(9), Deravi N(13).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)Students Research Committee, school of medicine, Ardabil University of 
Medical Sciences, Ardabil, Iran.
(3)Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)School of Medicine, Birjand University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran.
(5)Universal Scientific Education and Research Network (USERN), Tehran, Iran.
(6)Student Research Committee, Faculty of Medicine, Hormozgan University of 
Medical Science, Bandar Abbas, Iran.
(7)Qazvin University of Medical Science, Iran.
(8)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University of 
Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.
(9)Cell Biology and Anatomical Sciences, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(10)Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad Branch, Islamic Azad University, Mashhad, Iran.
(11)Student Research Committee, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(12)Faculty of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(13)Student Research Committee, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains a significant global health 
problem, with ongoing debates about the most effective treatment approach. While 
donepezil monotherapy has been traditionally used, recent interest has focused 
on combining it with memantine. This updated meta-analysis aimed to compare the 
efficacy of donepezil monotherapy versus its combination with memantine for 
treating AD.
METHOD: A literature search was conducted in the PubMed, Scopus, and Google 
Scholar databases up to February 14, 2024. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) 
comparing donepezil monotherapy with donepezil combined with memantine in AD 
patients were included. The quality of each selected study was assessed using 
the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) risk-of-bias tool. Data on cognitive function, 
measured using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Severe 
Impairment Battery (SIB), were extracted and analyzed using a random-effects 
model.
RESULTS: A total of four RCTs, including 1930 patients, met the inclusion 
criteria. Analysis using a forest plot revealed no significant difference in 
MMSE scores between monotherapy and combination therapy (OR = 0.54, 95 % CI: 
0.06-4.60, p > 0.05). However, SIB scores showed a significant improvement with 
combination therapy (OR = 7.00, 95 % CI: 1.13-43.24, p < 0.05). Both analyses 
exhibited high heterogeneity (I² = 72 % for MMSE; I² = 89 % for SIB). The funnel 
plots suggested minor publication bias for the MMSE outcomes, but some asymmetry 
was observed in the results for SIB.
CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis suggests that combination therapy with donepezil 
and memantine significantly benefits patients with severe cognitive impairment, 
as assessed by the SIB, compared to donepezil monotherapy. However, no 
significant advantage was observed in MMSE scores. The high heterogeneity among 
studies highlights the need for cautious interpretation and calls for larger, 
well-designed randomized controlled trials to further elucidate the comparative 
efficacy of these two therapeutic approaches in Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2025.05.016
PMCID: PMC12205533
PMID: 40584841

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare regarding the study described in this article and preparation of the 
article.


90. Front Hum Neurosci. 2025 Jun 13;19:1588935. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2025.1588935. 
eCollection 2025.

The mysterious sense of smell: evolution, historical perspectives, and 
neurological disorders.

Brandt T(1), Huppert D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)German Center for Vertigo and Balance Disorders, Klinikum der 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, Germany.
(2)Department of Neurology, Klinikum der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, 
Munich, Germany.

Phylogenetically, the chemical sense of smell is the oldest of all sensory 
modalities in terrestrial and aquatic organisms. For most non-human species in 
the wild, it is essential like other senses for survival because it aids 
nutrition, detection of environmental threats, and mating. In contrast to other 
senses, olfaction holds some unique properties: vertebrates, humans, and other 
mammals can distinguish many thousands of different odors due to genetically 
determined specific odorant receptors which have a lifespan of about 1 month and 
then are continuously replaced by neuroneogenesis in the olfactory epithelium. 
From a historical perspective, fragrances and perfumes played a significant role 
in the most influential ancient cultures, Egypt, Greece, and China. Most 
important was the belief in the magic power of fragrances-which were classified 
as "pleasant" or "unpleasant"-for medical treatment, religious or funeral 
rituals, e.g., preparing the bodies of the deceased for the assumed life after 
death, purification and divine favor. Further perfumes were used to cover 
natural body odor, for personal grooming, or to offer a potential hedonic odor 
in sexual selection. In contemporary medicine, the potential diagnostic value of 
olfactory loss as a biological marker for an impending neurodegenerative 
disorder such as Mild Cognitive Impairment, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, or estimating the inflammatory activity in Multiple Sclerosis is 
increasingly recognized. The regeneration of odorant receptors and inhibitory 
interneurons provide the basis for long-term recovery of loss of olfaction due 
to respiratory infections, for example in pandemics like COVID-19 or after a 
head trauma. Imaging disorders of olfaction disclosed clinically relevant 
structural changes of the brain network of olfaction and the intimate reciprocal 
interaction with other networks to subserve higher cortical functions such as an 
impressive specific odor memory, quality of life, emotion, cognition, selection 
of food, social interaction, stress, and depression. The latter higher olfactory 
functions often remain undetected by both patients and their doctors. A more 
intensive implementation of olfactory function and clinical testing should be 
considered in medical training.

Copyright © 2025 Brandt and Huppert.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2025.1588935
PMCID: PMC12203381
PMID: 40584825

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


91. Neurol Clin Pract. 2025 Aug;15(4):e200508. doi: 10.1212/CPJ.0000000000200508.
 Epub 2025 Jun 18.

Changes of a Cerebral Cavernous Malformation Associated With Lecanemab Therapy 
in a Patient With Alzheimer Disease.

Schwartz NU(1), Dietz CD(1), Prufer Araújo I(1), Villanueva-Meyer JE(2), Chiong 
W(1), Lane-Donovan C(1), Vandevrede L(1), Ljubenkov PA(1), Wang Y(2), 
Soleimani-Meigooni DN(1), La Joie R(1), Rojas JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Memory and Aging Center, Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of 
California, San Francisco; and.
(2)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, San 
Francisco.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Antiamyloid immunotherapies are associated with 
increased risk of intracerebral hemorrhage, particularly in the setting of 
APOE-ε4 carriership, anticoagulation, thrombolytics, and other lesions at risk 
of hemorrhagic conversion. It is not known whether patients with cavernous 
malformations are at increased risk of complication because patients with these 
lesions were excluded from clinical trials.
METHODS: We describe a case of a patient with Alzheimer disease (AD) with an 
incidental cavernous malformation treated with lecanemab.
RESULTS: A 73-year-old APOE ε4 heterozygous woman with mild cognitive impairment 
and CSF biomarker evidence of AD underwent treatment with intravenous lecanemab. 
Baseline MRI revealed 3 lobar microhemorrhages and an asymptomatic left 
orbitofrontal cavernous malformation. This cavernous malformation exhibited 
gross radiologic stability at surveillance brain MRI before the 5th and 7th 
infusions, but on surveillance MRI after infusion 13 exhibited an asymptomatic 
increase in size with subacute blood products without additional new 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA), resulting in treatment 
discontinuation.
DISCUSSION: Lecanemab therapy was associated with asymptomatic expansion of an 
incidental cavernous malformation in a patient with AD and without evidence of 
ARIA.

© 2025 American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/CPJ.0000000000200508
PMCID: PMC12204771
PMID: 40584633

Conflict of interest statement: N.U. Schwartz has received funding from 
2T32AG023481; C.D. Dietz, I. Prufer Araújo, and J.E. Villanueva-Meyer reports no 
disclosures relevant to the manuscript; W. Chiong has received funding from 
K24AG083117; C. Lane-Donovan has received funding from K08AG083050, Drew and 
Ellen Bradley, and the Creative Minds Award; L. Vandevrede is the site principle 
investigator for clinical trials sponsored by Biogen; P.A. Ljubenkov has served 
as the site principle investigator for trials sponsored by Abbvie, Bristol-Myers 
Squibb, Alector, Woolsey, Transposon, and Voyager, has served as a site sub 
investigator for trials sponsored by Eisai and Lilly, and has received research 
support from the National Institute of Aging/National Institutes of Health, the 
Alzhiemer's Association–Part the Cloud Partnership, and Biohaven; Y. Wang 
reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript; D.N. Soleimani-Meigooni has 
received funding from K23AG076960; R. La Joie has received consulting fees from 
GE Healthcare, and has received funding from P30AG062422; J.C. Rojas is the site 
principle investigator for clinical trials sponsored by Eli Lilly, Amylyx, and 
Eisai, has received consulting fees from Ferrer International and Roon Health, 
and has received funding from the John Douglas French Alzheimer's Foundation and 
AlzOut. Full disclosure form information provided by the authors is available 
with the full text of this article at Neurology.org/cp.


92. Neurol Clin Pract. 2025 Aug;15(4):e200502. doi: 10.1212/CPJ.0000000000200502.
 Epub 2025 Jun 25.

Diagnostic Journey and Health Care Burden of Patients With Creutzfeldt-Jakob 
Disease in the United States: A Real-World Evidence Study.

Kutrieb E(1), Vera Llonch M(2), Weycker D(1), Kymes SM(2), Brown D(3), Smith 
AV(2), Pulido RS(2), Appleby B(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Avalere Health, Boston, MA.
(2)Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc., Carlsbad, CA.
(3)National Prion Disease Pathology Surveillance Center, Cleveland, OH.
(4)Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH; and.
(5)University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, Cleveland, OH.

Erratum in
    Neurol Clin Pract. 2025 Oct;15(5):e200532. doi: 
10.1212/CPJ.0000000000200532.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Evidence on the diagnostic journey and health care 
burden of patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) in the United States is 
limited. A real-world evidence study using a US health care claims database was 
undertaken to address this gap.
METHODS: A retrospective observational cohort study was conducted using data 
from the Merative MarketScan Research Databases (01/2012-12/2020). Study 
population comprised adults aged 18 years or older with evidence of CJD (initial 
diagnosis = index date), no evidence of selected neurologic conditions after the 
last CJD diagnosis, and health care coverage during the 12-month pre-index 
period; adults meeting selection criteria are referred herein as "patients with 
CJD." Diagnostic journey was detailed based on evidence of symptoms and 
alternative neurologic conditions during the pre-index period as well as time to 
death (based on a proxy). Health care burden was summarized through levels of 
all-cause health care utilization and expenditures during the pre/post-index 
periods.
RESULTS: A total of 215 patients with CJD qualified for inclusion in the study 
population. The mean duration from first symptom to initial CJD diagnosis was 
5.0 months, and 80% of patients had ≥3 symptoms, most commonly altered mental 
status (82%), gait/coordination disturbance (60%), and malaise/fatigue (44%). 
Most patients (63%) also had ≥1 alternative diagnosis, including cerebrovascular 
disease (49%), peripheral vertigo (11%), and Alzheimer disease (7%); the mean 
duration from first alternative diagnosis to initial CJD diagnosis was 2.4 
months. The mean (median) time to death (proxy) from first symptom was 7.9 (6.6) 
months and from initial CJD diagnosis was 2.9 (1.1) months. During the 12-month 
pre-index period, mean (95% CI) cumulative health care expenditures were $35,493 
($28,914-$42,722); by the end of the post-index period, cumulative expenditures 
averaged $93,601 ($78,878-$109,776) per patient.
DISCUSSION: Study findings suggest that, in US clinical practice, patients with 
CJD present with one or more clinical symptoms affecting motor, cognitive, or 
other domains, and many alternative diagnoses are considered, which may prolong 
the diagnostic journey. Study findings also suggest that health care 
expenditures-especially proximate to the initial CJD diagnosis-are notably high. 
CJD should be considered in the differential diagnosis of adults with rapidly 
progressing dementia or motor disturbance.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/CPJ.0000000000200502
PMCID: PMC12204766
PMID: 40584632

Conflict of interest statement: Funding for this research was provided by Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals to Avalere Health. E. Kutrieb was employed by Avalere Health 
during the conduct of this study. D. Weycker is an employee of Avalere Health. 
M. Vera Llonch, S.M. Kymes, A.V. Smith, and R.S. Pulido are employees of Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals. D. Brown was employed by Ionis Pharmaceuticals during the 
conception and conduct of this study. B.S. Appleby is an employee of University 
Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center and Case Western Reserve University, has 
received funding from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, NIH, CJD 
Foundation, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, and Alector Therapeutics, and has provided 
consultation for Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Sangamo Therapeutics, and Gate 
Biosciences. Full disclosure form information provided by the authors is 
available with the full text of this article at Neurology.org/cp.


93. Iran J Basic Med Sci. 2025;28(8):962-985. doi:
10.22038/ijbms.2025.85350.18446.

Non-coding RNAs as key players in neurodegeneration and brain tumors: Insights 
into therapeutic strategies.

Saadh MJ(1), Qahtan SA(2), Albadr RJ(3), Sanghvi G(4), Roopashree R(5), Kashyap 
A(6), Sabarivani A(7), Rizaev J(8), Taher WM(9), Alwan M(10), Jawad MJ(11), 
Al-Nuaimi AMA(12).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Middle East University, Amman, 11831, Jordan.
(2)Department of Anesthesia Techniques, Health and Medical Techniques College, 
Alnoor University, Mosul, Iraq.
(3)Ahl al Bayt University, Karbala, Iraq.
(4)Marwadi University Research Center, Department of Microbiology, Faculty of 
Science, Marwadi University, Rajkot-360003, Gujarat, India.
(5)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, School of Sciences, JAIN (Deemed to 
be University), Bangalore, Karnataka, India.
(6)Centre for Research Impact & Outcome, Chitkara University Institute of 
Engineering and Technology, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, India.
(7)Department of Biomedical, Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology, 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(8)Department of Public Health and Healthcare Management, Rector, Samarkand 
State Medical University, 18, Amir Temur Street, Samarkand, Uzbekistan.
(9)College of Nursing, National University of Science and Technology, Dhi Qar, 
Iraq.
(10)Pharmacy college, Al-Farahidi University, Iraq.
(11)Department of Pharmacy, Al-Zahrawi University College, Karbala, Iraq.
(12)Gilgamesh Ahliya University, Baghdad, Iraq.

Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs), including microRNAs (miRNAs), long non-coding RNAs 
(lncRNAs), and other ncRNA types, have emerged as key regulators in 
neurodegenerative diseases and brain tumors. This review aims to provide 
insights into the role of ncRNAs in these conditions and their potential as 
diagnostic and therapeutic targets. We systematically reviewed literature from 
databases such as PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science, applying specific 
inclusion and exclusion criteria to ensure comprehensive coverage of recent 
advancements. Although ncRNAs are involved in a range of molecular pathways, 
challenges in clinical translation, including specificity, cost, and validation, 
persist. This review highlights innovative strategies to overcome these barriers 
and promote the clinical application of ncRNAs. Moreover, we explore the 
emerging role of extracellular vesicle-enriched ncRNAs as cell-free therapeutic 
options for neurodegenerative diseases. The findings presented here emphasize 
the need for robust validation and the development of specific ncRNA-based 
treatments.

© 2025. This work is openly licensed via CC BY 4.0.

DOI: 10.22038/ijbms.2025.85350.18446
PMCID: PMC12203828
PMID: 40584439

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


94. Basic Clin Neurosci. 2024 Sep-Oct;15(5):583-594. doi:
10.32598/bcn.2023.401.3.  Epub 2024 Sep 1.

A New Dipeptide H-MGL Partially Ameliorating Memory Impairment in an STZ-induced 
Alzheimer Model in Male Rats.

Ghasempour S(1), Maghsoudi N(2), Manaheji H(1)(3), Ghasemi R(1)(3), Jaafarisuha 
A(1), Zaringhalam J(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Neurobiology Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(3)Neurophysiology Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
that is identified by the gradual decline in memory and cognitive function. It 
is classified by the deposition of Aβ plaques, the build-up of intracellular 
neurofibrillary tangle (NFT), and neuron loss. Neurotrophic factors play a 
critical role in the treatment of AD. However, utilizing such neurotrophins has 
encountered certain difficulties and side effects. Novel technological 
advancements prioritize innovative dipeptide usage, which offers fewer side 
effects.
METHODS: The present study endeavors to analyze the compound 
hexamethylenediamide bis-(N-monosuccinyl-glutamyl-lysine) (lab name: H-MGL), a 
newly discovered neurotrophin mimetic dipeptide, to alleviate memory impairment 
in an intracerebroventricular single dose streptozotocin (STZ)-induced Alzheimer 
model in rats. We arranged 4 groups: Sham and groups receiving STZ and STZ + 
H-MGL (1 and 2 mg/kg). The H-MGL was administered consecutively for 14 days 
following the STZ injection. Then, the Morris water maze test was performed.
RESULTS: The findings suggest that administration of STZ caused a significantly 
increment in mean escape latency and mean traveled distance in acquisition days. 
H-MGL at a 1 mg/kg dosage failed to yield any notable improvement in rats 
compared to STZ. By contrast, 2 mg/kg of H-MGL dosage led to a significant 
decrease in the latency to first platform crossing and frequency of platform 
crossings.
CONCLUSION: Consequently, the findings above have engendered the notion that 
H-MGL partially ameliorates cognitive impairment, so it may hold promise for 
having low side effects to alleviate cognitive deficits in AD or potentially 
decrease the symptoms associated with its progression.

Copyright© 2024 Iranian Neuroscience Society.

DOI: 10.32598/bcn.2023.401.3
PMCID: PMC12198738
PMID: 40583880


95. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(4):1272-1287. doi: 10.1177/13872877251352189. 
Epub 2025 Jun 30.

Harnessing greater statistical power: Comprehensive evaluation of disease 
modifying treatment effects across all or multiple post-baseline visits compared 
to the last visit for Alzheimer's disease clinical trials.

Wang G(1)(2), Chen T(3), O'Gorman J(3), Li Y(1), Li C(4), Guizzetti L(4), Mangal 
B(5), Wang W(6), Wu S(3), Inman D(7), McDade E(1), Bateman RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, MO, 
USA.
(2)Division of Biostatistics, Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, MO, 
USA.
(3)Biogen Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA.
(4)Alector, Inc., South San Francisco, CA, USA.
(5)Solara Consulting Corp., North Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(6)Tenaya Therapeutics, South San Francisco, CA, USA.
(7)GlaxoSmithKline Medicines Research Centre, Stevenage, UK.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2025 Feb 21:2025.02.18.25322498. doi: 10.1101/2025.02.18.25322498.

BackgroundIn Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical trials, efficacy inference is 
traditionally based on the last visit (e.g., 18 months). However, recent studies 
suggest that disease-modifying treatment effects may emerge as early as 3 months 
post-baseline.ObjectiveTo explore this further, our study aimed to assess the 
increased statistical power achieved by incorporating all or multiple 
post-baseline visits to estimate treatment effect, compared to relying solely on 
the last visit.MethodsWe developed explicit formulas for the basis functions of 
the natural cubic spline model, ensuring compatibility with standard SAS 
procedures. Through simulations using disease progression trajectories from 
Clarity-AD and TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 trials, we comprehensively evaluated various 
models in terms of power and type I error. Additionally, we offer SAS codes that 
to facilitate seamless implementation of different modeling 
approaches.ResultsSimulations based on ClarityAD and TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 disease 
trajectories demonstrated that models incorporating multiple or all 
post-baseline visits yield greater power than those using only the last visit, 
while maintaining Type I error control. Furthermore, when three post-baseline 
visits were included, adding more visits resulted in minimal power 
gains.ConclusionsOur findings support prioritizing statistical models that 
incorporate multiple or all post-baseline visits for treatment efficacy 
inference, as they offer greater efficiency than models relying solely on the 
last visit.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251352189
PMID: 40583799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Guoqiao Wang, PhD, is 
the biostatistics core co-leader for the DIAN-TU. He reports serving on a Data 
Safety Committee for Amydis Corporate, Abata Therapeutics, and statistical 
consultant for Eisai inc. and Alector Inc. Eric McDade, D.O., is the Associate 
Director of the DIAN-TU. He reports serving on a Data Safety Committee for Eli 
Lilly and Company and Alector; scientific consultant for Eisai and Eli Lilly and 
Company; institutional grant support from Eli Lilly and Company, F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche, Ltd and Janssen. Randall J. Bateman, M.D., is the Director of the DIAN-TU 
and Principal Investigator of the DIAN-TU-001. He co-founded C2N Diagnostics. 
Washington University and R.J.B. have equity ownership interest in C2N 
Diagnostics and receive royalty income based on technology (stable isotope 
labeling kinetics, blood plasma assay and methods of diagnosing Alzheimer’s 
disease with phosphorylation changes) that is licensed by Washington University 
to C2N Diagnostics. R.J.B. receives income from C2N Diagnostics for serving on 
the scientific advisory board. R.J.B. has received research funding from Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen, Roche/Genentech, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Biogen, 
AbbVie, Bristol Myers Squibb and Novartis. He receives research support from the 
National Institute on Aging of the National Institutes of Health, DIAN-TU Trial 
Pharmaceutical Partners (Eli Lilly and Company, F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd, and 
Avid Radiopharmaceuticals), Alzheimer’s Association, GHR Foundation, Anonymous 
Organization, DIAN-TU Pharma Consortium (Active: Biogen, Eisai, Eli Lilly and 
Company, Janssen, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd/Genentech. Previous: AbbVie, Amgen, 
AstraZeneca, Forum, Mithridion, Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, United Neuroscience). 
He has been an invited speaker for Novartis and serves on the Advisory Board for 
F. Hoffman La Roche, Ltd JO and SW are employees of and may hold stock in 
Biogen. TC is a former employee of and may hold stock in Biogen. The remaining 
authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


96. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(4):1615-1628. doi: 10.1177/13872877251352545. 
Epub 2025 Jun 30.

Methanol extract from miracle fruit seeds mitigates Alzheimer's disease and 
enhance autophagy via suppressing the AKT/mTOR signal pathway.

Shang ZT(1), Huang XY(1), Xiong LL(1), Xu ZC(1), Liu HX(1), Yu CY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical University, 
Zunyi, Guizhou, China.

Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease. In previous 
study, we discovered that methanol extract of miracle fruits seeds (MFSs) had a 
therapeutic effect on AD model mice. Objective: In this research, we aimed to 
study the role of MFSs in alleviating amyloid-β (Aβ) deposition and further 
explore the possible mechanism of action of MFSs. Methods: We used behavioral 
tests and various immunolabeling techniques on two AD model (Aβ transgenic model 
strain CL4176 of Caenorhabditis elegans and the 3 × Tg-AD mice). Results: In 
CL4176, MFSs (10 μg/mL) could effectively alleviate the paralysis caused by Aβ, 
the Aβ plaques were significantly reduced, the transcription levels of Aβ, 
age-1, akt-1 and mTOR genes were significantly downregulated, and the 
transcription of autophagy-related gene lgg-1 was enhanced. The cognitive 
function of mice in the MFSs group was improved, which was related to reduced 
synapse loss and Aβ-positive neurons in the brain. Meanwhile, the transcription 
levels of amyloid-β protein precursor (AβPP), Tau, Akt and mTOR were 
significantly reduced. The protein expressions of PSD95, SYN1, LC3II/I and 
Beclin-1 were significantly increased, and the value of p62/SQSTM1, p-AKT/AKT, 
p-mTOR/mTOR were reduced. Conclusions: MFSs significantly alleviates Aβ 
deposition in CL4176 and mice. The mechanism by which it improves cognitive 
function in AD mice may be related to enhanced autophagy regulated by the 
Akt/mTOR signaling pathway.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251352545
PMID: 40583798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting InterestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


97. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(3):1120-1129. doi: 10.1177/13872877251351549. 
Epub 2025 Jun 30.

Blood biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease in Australians habitually consuming 
various plant-based diets.

Eslick S(1)(2), Austin G(1)(2), Ferguson JJ(2)(3), Garg ML(1)(2), Oldmeadow 
C(4), Martins RN(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Macquarie Medical School, Macquarie University, Macquarie Park, NSW, 
Australia.
(2)School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, University of Newcastle, 
Callaghan, NSW, Australia.
(3)School of Health Sciences, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, 
Australia.
(4)Clinical Research Design, Information Technology, and Statistical Support 
Unit, Hunter Medical Research Institute, New Lambton Heights, NSW, Australia.
(5)Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, Australia.

BackgroundEvidence suggests that plant-based diets (PBDs) may be protective 
against neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease 
(AD).ObjectiveThis study examined associations between blood-based AD biomarkers 
in individuals 30-75 years without current or diagnosed cardiovascular disease 
following different PBDs versus regular meat-eating diets (RMEs).MethodsThis 
secondary analysis of the Plant-based Diets study measured Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40, 
p-tau181, NFL, and GFAP in 237 plasma samples using SIMOA from individuals 
following vegan, pesco-vegetarian (PVs), lacto-ovo vegetarian (LOVs), 
semi-vegetarian (SVs), or RME diets. Multivariable regression adjusted for age 
and sex.ResultsFollowing adjustments for age and sex, plasma Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratio 
was significantly higher in PVs 0.011 (CI: 0.006, 0.016, p < 0.01), LOVs 0.011 
(CI: 0.007, 0.016, p < 0.01) and SVs 0.015 (0.009-0.020, p < 0.01) groups 
compared to RMEs. Plasma p-tau181 was significantly higher in PVs 3.4 (CI: 
0.4-6.4, p < 0.05) and LOVs 7.1 (CI: 2.5, 11.8, p < 0.01), NFL higher in PVs 5.2 
(CI: 1.6, 8.7, p < 0.01) and LOVs 4.0 (CI: 1.6, 6.5, p = 0.01), and GFAP higher 
in PVs 26 (CI: 6, 47, p < 0.05) and LOVs 21 (5, 367, p = 0.01), all compared to 
RMEs.ConclusionsThis analysis suggests that PBDs may be associated with 
blood-based AD biomarkers. Higher Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 levels in PV, LOV and SV dietary 
patterns compared to RMEs could indicate lesser amyloid burden, but elevated 
levels of other AD biomarkers in some PBDs warrant further investigation into 
nutrient-specific roles in AD pathology.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251351549
PMCID: PMC12284332
PMID: 40583796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Jessica J. A. Ferguson 
is employed part-time by the Sanitarium Health Food Company, who had no input in 
the study and did not financially support or sponsor any part of this study. The 
authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


98. J Med Food. 2025 Aug;28(8):812-823. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2024.k.0267. Epub 2025
Jun  25.

Efficacy and Safety of MT104, A Dietary Supplement Based on Cuscuta Seeds and 
Heat-Killed Probiotics, on Cognitive Function in Patients with Mild Cognitive 
Impairment: A 12-Week, Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled 
Clinical Trial.

Kim BH(1)(2)(3), Kwon M(4), Yim SV(1), Park JW(5), Lee CN(5), Chae SW(6), Choi 
JG(7), Park SC(7), Sohn MW(7), Choi SZ(7), Lee JS(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Kyung Hee University 
College of Medicine, Kyung Hee University Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)East-West Medical Research Institute, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Republic 
of Korea.
(3)Department of Biomedical Science and Technology, Graduate School, Kyung Hee 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Kyung Hee University 
Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Korea University Anam Hospital, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(6)Clinical Trial Center for Functional Foods, Biomedical Research Institute, 
Jeonbuk National University Hospital, Jeonju, Republic of Korea.
(7)Mthera Pharma Co., Ltd., Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(8)Department of Neurology, Kyung Hee University College of Medicine, Kyung Hee 
University Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) represents the symptomatic predementia stage of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). To delay the progression of MCI to AD, appropriate 
interventions capable of modulating the microbiota-gut-brain (MGB) axis are 
necessary. This study was designed to assess the efficacy and safety of MT104, a 
dietary supplement comprising Cuscuta seeds and heat-killed probiotics, based on 
the biological mechanisms regulating the MGB axis in patients with MCI. This was 
a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled study. All 
patients were randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to the MT104 or placebo group. 
Global cognition was assessed using the Korean-Montreal Cognitive Assessment 
(K-MoCA) and Korean-Mini Mental State Examination at baseline and after 12 weeks 
of treatment. The visuospatial function was assessed using the copying 
performance from the Rey Complex Figure Test (RCFT), and verbal and visual 
memory functions were evaluated using the Seoul Verbal Learning Test (SVLT) and 
RCFT. Differences between groups were analyzed using either the t-test or the 
Mann-Whitney U test. Analyses of covariance and ranked analysis of covariance 
were performed. The mean changes in verbal memory function, as measured by the 
SVLT delayed recall, showed clinically significant improvement in the MT104 
group relative to the placebo group in the intention-to-treat and per-protocol 
groups. Global cognition, as measured using the K-MoCA, also significantly 
improved in the per-protocol group. In addition, no significant findings were 
identified. This study highlighted the potential of dietary therapeutic 
strategies focused on reducing the risk of progression from MCI to AD.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2024.k.0267
PMID: 40583505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Mol Ther. 2025 Sep 3;33(9):4135-4142. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2025.06.042. Epub 
2025 Jun 28.

CD19xCD3 T cell engager blinatumomab effective in refractory generalized 
myasthenic syndromes.

Ruck T(1), Huntemann N(2), Öztürk M(3), Schreiber S(4), Lichtenberg S(2), 
Masanneck L(2), Nelke C(3), Ben Moussa H(2), Ulrych T(5), Seifert M(5), 
Mougiakakos D(6), Dietrich S(5), Meuth SG(2).

Author information:
(1)Ruhr University Bochum, BG University Hospital Bergmannsheil, Department of 
Neurology, 44789 Bochum, Germany; BG University Hospital Bergmannsheil, Heimer 
Institute for Muscle Research, 44789 Bochum, Germany; Department of Neurology, 
University Hospital and Medical Faculty Düsseldorf, Heinrich Heine University 
Düsseldorf, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany. Electronic address: 
tobias.ruck@med.uni-duesseldorf.de.
(2)Department of Neurology, University Hospital and Medical Faculty Düsseldorf, 
Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany.
(3)Ruhr University Bochum, BG University Hospital Bergmannsheil, Department of 
Neurology, 44789 Bochum, Germany; BG University Hospital Bergmannsheil, Heimer 
Institute for Muscle Research, 44789 Bochum, Germany; Department of Neurology, 
University Hospital and Medical Faculty Düsseldorf, Heinrich Heine University 
Düsseldorf, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany.
(4)Department of Neurology, University Hospital and Medical Faculty Düsseldorf, 
Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany; Department of 
Neurology, Otto von Guericke University Magdeburg, 39120 Magdeburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Haematology and Oncology, University Hospital Düsseldorf, and 
Center for Integrated Oncology Aachen Bonn Cologne, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany.
(6)Department of Haematology, Oncology, and Cell Therapy, Otto von Guericke 
University Magdeburg, 39120 Magdeburg, Germany.

In this case series, we report the first off-label use of the CD19xCD3 T cell 
engager blinatumomab in two patients with generalized myasthenia gravis (MG). 
Refractory MG remains a major therapeutic challenge, with patients experiencing 
severe disability and potentially life-threatening crises despite intensive 
immunotherapy. This study evaluates the clinical efficacy and safety of 
short-term blinatumomab treatment in two patients with severe, refractory 
generalized MG. Both individuals had been experiencing persistent disease burden 
with myasthenic crises leading to severe disability, despite multimodal 
immunotherapy. Following treatment with blinatumomab, both patients showed rapid 
and sustained clinical improvements, reflected in significant reductions in 
MG-specific scores (MG Activities of Daily Living scale, Quantitative MG score, 
and revised MG Quality of Life-15), further patient-reported outcomes, digital 
activity markers, and gait analyses. Laboratory findings revealed persistent B 
cell depletion in patient 1, whereas patient 2 demonstrated clinical improvement 
and autoantibody reduction despite B cell repopulation by day 106. Both patients 
experienced grade 1 cytokine release syndrome during initial treatment phases, 
but no neurotoxicity or severe adverse events were observed. This report 
underscores the potential of CD19xCD3 T cell engagers as a promising therapeutic 
approach in severe autoimmune neuroimmunological disorders, warranting further 
investigation in clinical trials and mechanistic studies.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2025.06.042
PMCID: PMC12432851
PMID: 40583272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests T.R. received honoraria 
for lecturing, consulting, travel expenses for attending meetings, and research 
support from Alexion, Argenx, Biogen, BMS, Celgene, Genzyme, J&J, Merck, 
Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, and UCB. His research was funded by the Deutsche 
Gesellschaft für Muskelkranke (DGM) e.V., German Ministry for Education and 
Research (BMBF), German Research Foundation (DFG), Else Kroner-Fresenius 
Foundation, and Interdisciplinary Center for Clinical Studies (IZKF) Muenster, 
all outside the scope of this work. N.H. received honoraria for lecturing, 
consulting, travel expenses for attending meetings, and research support from 
Alexion, ArgenX, Janssen-Cilag, Merck, Novartis, UCB, and Viatris. His research 
has been funded by the DFG, outside the scope of this work. M.Ö. received 
honoraria for lecturing, travel expenses for attending meetings, and research 
support from Amicus Therapeutics, Argenx, CSL Behring, and Novartis. S.S. 
received research support from the DFG, Else Kroner-Fresenius Foundation, and 
the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy. L.M. received honoraria 
for lecturing, consulting, travel expenses for attending meetings, and research 
support from Alexion, Argenx, B. Braun Foundation, Biogen, Merck, Neuraxpharm, 
Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi. His research was funded by the DFG and Deutsch 
Multiple Sklerose Gesellschaft (German Multiple Sclerosis Foundation), all 
outside the scope of this work. He is chair of the German Society for Digital 
Medicine. C.N. received honoraria for lecturing and consulting from Alexion and 
ArgenX. D.M. received honoraria for lecturing, consulting, and travel expenses 
for attending meetings from AbbVie, AstraZeneca, AvenCell, Beigne, BMS, 
Galapagos, Gilead, Janssen, Lilly, Kyverna Therapeutics, Miltenyi Novartis, 
Pfizer, and Roche. S.D. received honoraria for lecturing, consulting, travel 
expenses for attending meetings, and research support from BeiGene, BMS, 
Celgene, Johnson & Johnson, Kilte/ Gliead, Novartis, Pierre Fabre, and Roche. 
His research was supported by the BMBF (German Ministry of Education and 
Research) and DFG. S.G.M. received honoraria for lecturing, consulting, travel 
expenses for attending meetings, and research support from Academy 2, Argenx, 
Alexion, Almirall, Amicus Therapeutics Germany, AstraZeneca, Bayer HealthCare, 
Biogen, BioNTech, BMS, Celgene, Datamed, Demecan, Desitin, Diamed, Diaplan, DIU 
Dresden, DPmed, Gen Medicine and Healthcare products, Genzyme, Hexal AG, IGES, 
Impulze GmbH, Janssen Cilag, KW Medipoint, MedDay Pharmaceuticals, Medmile, 
Merck Serono, MICE, Mylan, Neuraxpharm, Neuropoint, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, ONO 
Pharma, Oxford PharmaGenesis, QuintilesIMS, Roche, Sanofi, Springer Medizin 
Verlag, STADA, Chugai Pharma, Teva, UCB, Viatris, Wings for Life International, 
and Xcenda. His research is funded by the BMBF, German Federal Institute for 
Risk Assessment, DFG, Else Kroner-Fresenius Foundation, Gemeinsamer 
Bundesausschuss, German Academic Exchange Service, Hertie Foundation, IZKF 
Muenster, German Foundation for Neurology, Ministry of Culture and Science of 
the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, the Daimler and Benz Foundation, DMSG 
(German Society for Multiple Sclerosis), Peek & Cloppenburg Düsseldorf 
Foundation, Hempel Foundation for Science, Art and Welfare, German Alzheimer 
Society e.V. and Alexion, Almirall, Amicus Therapeutics Germany, Argenx, Bayer 
Vital GmbH, BGP Products Operations (Viatris Company), Biogen, BMS, Demecan, 
Diamed, DGM e.v., Fresenius Medical Care, Genzyme, Gesellschaft von Freunden und 
Förderern der Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf e.V., HERZ Burgdorf, Hexal, 
Janssen, Merck Serono, Novartis, Novo Nordisk Pharma, ONO Pharma, Roche, and 
Teva.


100. J Am Chem Soc. 2025 Jul 9;147(27):23504-23518. doi: 10.1021/jacs.5c01369.
Epub  2025 Jun 29.

Chaperone-Mediated Regulation of Tau Phase Separation, Fibrillation, and 
Toxicity.

Mörman C(1)(2), Leppert A(3)(4), Pizzirusso G(5)(6), Zheng Z(1)(7), Sun X(2), 
Kumar R(1)(8), Biverstål H(1), Landreh M(3)(4), Johansson J(1), Arroyo-Garcia 
LE(5), Luo J(2), Chen G(1)(3), Abelein A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine Huddinge, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, 141 52 
Huddinge, Sweden.
(2)Center for Life Sciences, Paul Scherrer Institute, Villigen, 5232 Villigen, 
Switzerland.
(3)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Uppsala University, 75124 Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology, Karolinska Institutet, 
Solna, 171 65 Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of 
Neurogeriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, 
171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, 
171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, Xi'an Jiaotong University, 710061 Xi'an, Shaanxi, 
China.
(8)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of Clinical 
Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, 141 
83 Stockholm, Sweden.

Biological condensates are involved in several essential processes but may also 
be tangled into disease progression in protein misfolding diseases such as 
Alzheimer's disease and tauopathies. One hallmark of these disorders is the 
appearance of fibrillar aggregates formed by microtubule-stabilizing Tau 
protein. Notably, Tau can also assemble into biological condensates and droplets 
via liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS). The molecular mechanisms of the 
conversion of functional Tau toward insoluble fibrils, potentially via LLPS 
processes, remain largely unknown, and efficient treatment approaches to target 
toxic pathways and species are still missing. Here, we show that the molecular 
chaperone-like Bri2 BRICHOS domain efficiently inhibits full-length Tau fibril 
formation and subsequent neurotoxicity by specifically suppressing secondary 
nucleation processes. Further, at substoichiometric ratios, Bri2 BRICHOS 
modulates the potency of Tau to form droplets, incorporates into Tau droplets, 
and alters the dynamic behavior of Tau. In contrast, at superstoichiometric Bri2 
BRICHOS ratios, Tau droplet formation is abolished. Finally, Bri2 BRICHOS 
reduces Tau fibril toxicity in electrophysiological experiments on hippocampal 
slice preparations. Taken together, Bri2 BRICHOS targets molecular processes 
related to protein misfolding, where our study provides molecular insights into 
how the inhibition of secondary nucleation pathways and modulated droplet 
formation are eventually linked to attenuated neurotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.5c01369
PMCID: PMC12257531
PMID: 40583215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]