1. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2025 Oct;270:108954. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2025.108954. Epub 2025 Jul 19.

Regularized multi-task learning with individual-feature-based task correlations 
for Alzheimer's cognitive score prediction.

Tang S(1), Chen Q(2), Xue B(2), Huang M(3), Zhang M(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Information Science and Engineering, Northeastern University, 
Shenyang, 110819, China; Centre for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence & 
School of Engineering and Computer Science, Victoria University of Wellington, 
Wellington 6140, New Zealand.
(2)Centre for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence & School of Engineering 
and Computer Science, Victoria University of Wellington, Wellington 6140, New 
Zealand.
(3)College of Information Science and Engineering, Northeastern University, 
Shenyang, 110819, China. Electronic address: mhuang@mail.neu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Predicting multiple cognitive scores from brain 
features for Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients can aid in early intervention 
treatments and enhance disease management. Regularized multi-task sparse 
learning has become an important approach since it can predict multiple 
cognitive scores and identify biomarkers in one process. However, existing 
methods often assign the same correlation coefficient for a pair of tasks on all 
features, even though their relationships at different features are usually 
different. Introducing inaccurate task correlations into multi-task learning can 
hinder the improvement of models' prediction performance. This study overcomes 
the above limitation by introducing a novel multi-task learning framework that 
captures task correlations at a fine-grained, feature-specific level.
METHODS: We propose a novel individual-feature-based task correlation matrices 
guided multi-task learning (IFTMTL) method. The method constructs a non-smooth 
convex objective function that jointly learns regression models for multiple 
cognitive scores. This objective function integrates task and feature 
correlations to enhance predictive performance. Specifically, the fine-grained 
inter-task correlations are modeled at the feature level using a set of task 
correlation matrices, while feature correlations are captured via the Pearson 
coefficient. An iterative optimization algorithm is developed to jointly update 
the task correlation structures and model parameters.
RESULTS: The proposed IFTMTL significantly outperforms the 11 competitive 
methods in the normalized mean squared error (nMSE) and correlation coefficient 
(CC) metrics. Specifically, IFTMTL improves the nMSE metric of the Multi-Task 
Feature Learning method by 4.09%, and the CC metric by 1.68%. Furthermore, 
IFTMTL identifies the most severely affected brain regions in AD, including the 
left hippocampus, left middle temporal, and right entorhinal.
CONCLUSION: IFTMTL improves AD prediction performance by effectively 
incorporating unequal task correlations at the feature level, enabling better 
knowledge transfer across tasks. The method outperforms existing approaches in 
predicting cognitive scores and identifying significant biomarkers, such as the 
hippocampus and middle temporal regions, which are crucial for AD prediction and 
clinical analysis.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2025.108954
PMID: 40701038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Aug;163:108750. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108750. Epub 2025
 Jul 14.

In vitro and in vivo evaluation of 1,4-bis-benzylpiperazine-2-carboxylic acid 
derivatives as potential multi-target directed ligands (MTDLs) anti-Alzheimer's 
agents.

Soliman AM(1), Abd El-Wahab HAA(2), Eissa RG(3), Baraka NM(3), Omar FA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Assiut University, 
Assiut 71526, Egypt; School of Chemistry, University of New South Wales (UNSW), 
Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.
(2)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Assiut University, 
Assiut 71526, Egypt.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Zagazig University, Zagazig 
44519, Egypt.
(4)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Assiut University, 
Assiut 71526, Egypt. Electronic address: farghalyomar@pharm.aun.edu.

Recently, we reported a series of donepezil-based piperazine-2-carboxylic acid 
derivatives, essentially designed as MTDLs anti- Alzheimer's agents, with 
nanomolar to sub micromolar dual inhibitory activity against 
acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase. Herein, we report the evaluation 
of selected series of the designed compounds 4(c, d), 5(b, c), 7(a-f), 8(a, b, 
f), for potential activity against further clinical traits involved in the 
pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The results revealed compounds 7b and 
8f with promising in vitro inhibitory effect against Aβ aggregation 
(IC50 = 1.15 ± 0.05 and 1.10 ± 0.05 μM, respectively) as compared to the 
reference drug, curcumin (IC50 = 6.54 ± 0.31 μM). Meanwhile, compounds 7b, 7e 
and 8f exhibited comparable in vitro inhibitory activity against HDAC1, 
(IC50 = 0.30 ± 0.01, 0.14 ± 0.01 and 0.15 ± 0.01 μM respectively), relative to 
the reference drugs SAHA (IC50 = 0.046 ± 0.002 μM) and entinostat, 
(IC50 = 0.05 ± 0.002 μM). Additionally, the investigated compounds displayed 
radical scavenging effect comparable to DPPH, and metal chelating ability 
towards Cu (II) and Zn (II) metals. The neuroprotective characteristics have 
been established in vivo through several analytical assessments of the potential 
effects against AlCl3-induced AD, in comparison to donepezil as reference drug. 
Explicitly, the studies involve behavioural tests, oxidative stress, 
neuroinflammatory markers, amyloid-beta (Aβ) aggregation, acetylcholine and 
acetylcholinesterase levels. The results displayed in vivo activity comparable 
to the reference drug. Docking studies, in the binding sites of Aβ(1-42) peptide 
(PDB code 1IYT) and HDAC1 (PDB code 4BKX), demonstrate binding modes analogous 
to that elicited by the native ligands, respectively. These findings confirm of 
the neuroprotective activity of the designed compounds and establish their 
validity as MTDLs candidates for further investigation against Alzheimer's 
disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108750
PMID: 40700929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


3. ACS Chem Biol. 2025 Aug 15;20(8):1841-1848. doi: 10.1021/acschembio.5c00463. 
Epub 2025 Jul 23.

Neutral pH-Selective Inhibition of Cytosolic Cathepsin B: A Novel Drug Targeting 
Strategy for Traumatic Brain Injury and Alzheimer's Disease.

Hook V(1)(2), Podvin S(1), Yoon MC(1), Phan VV(1), Florio J(3), Spencer B(3), 
Mosier C(1), Cheng A(1), Ahuett S(1), Almaliti J(4)(5), Gerwick WH(4), Rissman 
RA(3), O'Donoghue AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
California, La Jolla, San Diego, California 92093, United States.
(2)Department of Neurosciences and Department of Pharmacology, School of 
Medicine, University of California, La Jolla, San Diego, California 92093, 
United States.
(3)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience, USC Alzheimer's Therapeutic 
Research Institute, San Diego, California 92121, United States.
(4)Center for Maine Biotechnology and Biomedicine, Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography, University of California, La Jolla, San Diego, California 92093, 
United States.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, the University of 
Jordan, Amman 11942, Jordan.

Cathepsin B contributes to the behavioral deficits and neuropathology that occur 
in traumatic brain injury (TBI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). TBI and AD 
patients display elevated levels of cathepsin B that correlate with the severity 
of injury or cognitive deficits, respectively. In animal models of TBI and AD, 
cathepsin B gene knockout ameliorates behavioral deficits and improves 
neuropathology. While cathepsin B is normally located in acidic lysosomes, 
during TBI and AD, lysosomal leakage results in the translocation of cathepsin B 
to the neutral pH environment of the cytosol, thereby initiating 
neurodegeneration. Neutral pH-selective inhibitors are hypothesized to 
specifically target the pathogenic cytosolic cathepsin B without affecting its 
normal lysosomal form. Therefore, this review focuses on a novel strategy to 
utilize pH-dependent substrate cleavage properties of cathepsin B for the design 
of a neutral pH-selective inhibitor. Investigation of the enzymatic properties 
of cathepsin B at different pH conditions led to the development of 
Z-Arg-Lys-AOMK, a neutral pH-selective inhibitor that does not affect the 
enzyme's activity at normal lysosomal acidic pH. Z-Arg-Lys-AOMK potently 
inhibits cathepsin B at nM concentrations and effectively inhibits cellular 
cathepsin B in neuronal cell cultures at similar levels. In mice subjected to 
controlled cortical impact (CCI) brain injury, a model of TBI, cytosolic 
cathepsin B activity was significantly elevated in the brain. Treatment of the 
CCI-TBI mice with Z-Arg-Lys-AOMK reduced cytosolic cathepsin B activity and 
resulted in less motor dysfunction. These findings show that pH-dependent 
cleavage properties of cathepsin B can be utilized for the development of 
selective inhibitors to target the neutral cytosolic form of cathepsin B. The 
new concept of pH-selective inhibitors of cathepsin B reveals novel 
opportunities for targeting pathogenic, cytosolic cathepsin B involved in brain 
disorders.

DOI: 10.1021/acschembio.5c00463
PMCID: PMC12362428
PMID: 40700403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. PLoS One. 2025 Jul 23;20(7):e0328457. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0328457. 
eCollection 2025.

Integrated in silico identification of cholinesterase inhibitors from Nyctanthes 
arbor-tristis.

Jamal QMS(1)(2), Alharbi AH(1)(2), Ahmad V(2)(3), Ahmad K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Informatics, College of Applied Medical Sciences, Qassim 
University, Buraydah, Saudi Arabia.
(2)King Salman Center for Disability Research, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Health Information Technology Department, The Applied College, King Abdulaziz 
University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains a major neurodegenerative disorder, 
characterized by cognitive decline alongside functional impairments that affect 
daily living. Natural therapeutic alternatives have spurred the search for novel 
inhibitors targeting acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase 
(BChE), two well-established targets in AD therapy. This study utilizes an in 
silico methodology to investigate new cholinesterase inhibitors sourced from 
Nyctanthes arbor-tristis, a plant known for its abundant bioactive 
phytochemicals. Through virtual screening, molecular dynamics simulations (MDS), 
free energy landscape analysis, and ADMET predictions, eight compounds have been 
identified as potential inhibitors of AChE and/or BChE. These compounds include 
Apigenin, Arborside-B, Arbortristoside-D, Arbortristoside-E, Nicotiflorin, 
Arborside-A, Beta-amyrin, and Nyctanthic acid. These compounds exhibited robust 
binding affinities compared to the control, advantageous ADMET profiles, and 
sustained stability throughout 200 ns of MDS and energy assessments, 
highlighting their potential as viable drug candidates for further exploration. 
Further experimental studies are required to validate their therapeutic 
efficacies, thereby confirming their potential as neurological therapeutics for 
the treatment of AD and related disabilities.

Copyright: © 2025 Jamal et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0328457
PMCID: PMC12286396
PMID: 40700397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


5. Geriatrics (Basel). 2025 Jul 16;10(4):94. doi: 10.3390/geriatrics10040094.

Development of a Specialized Telemedicine Protocol for Cognitive Disorders: The 
TeleCogNition Project in Greece.

Angelopoulou E(1), Stamelos I(1), Smaragdaki E(1), Vourou K(1), Stanitsa E(1), 
Kontaxopoulou D(1), Koros C(1), Papatriantafyllou J(1), Zilidou V(2), 
Romanopoulou E(2), Georgopoulou EM(3), Sakka P(4), Karanikas H(5), Stefanis 
L(1), Bamidis P(2), Papageorgiou S(1).

Author information:
(1)1st Neurology Department, Aiginition University Hospital, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, 11528 Athens, Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Medical Physics and Digital Innovation, School of Medicine, 
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54636 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(3)General Hospital of Leros, 85400 Lakki, Greece.
(4)Athens Association of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders, 11636 
Marousi, Greece.
(5)Department of Computer Science and Biomedical Informatics, University of 
Thessaly, 35131 Lamia, Greece.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Access to specialized care for patients with cognitive 
impairment in remote areas is often limited. Despite the increasing adoption of 
telemedicine, standardized guidelines have not yet been specified. This study 
aimed to develop a comprehensive protocol for the specialized neurological, 
neuropsychological, and neuropsychiatric assessment of patients with cognitive 
disorders in remote areas through telemedicine.
METHODS: We analyzed data from (i) a comprehensive literature review of the 
existing recommendations, reliability studies, and telemedicine models for 
cognitive disorders, (ii) insights from a three-year experience of a specialized 
telemedicine outpatient clinic for cognitive movement disorders in Greece, and 
(iii) suggestions coming from dementia specialists experienced in telemedicine 
(neurologists, neuropsychologists, psychiatrists) who took part in three focus 
groups. A critical synthesis of the findings was performed in the end.
RESULTS: The final protocol included: technical and organizational requirements 
(e.g., a high-resolution screen and a camera with zoom, room dimensions adequate 
for gait assessment, a noise-canceling microphone); medical history; 
neurological, neuropsychiatric, and neuropsychological assessment adapted to 
videoconferencing; ethical-legal aspects (e.g., data security, privacy, informed 
consent); clinician-patient interaction (e.g., empathy, eye contact); diagnostic 
work-up; linkage to other services (e.g., tele-psychoeducation, caregiver 
support); and instructions for treatment and follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: This protocol is expected to serve as an example of good clinical 
practice and a source for official telemedicine guidelines for cognitive 
disorders. Ultimate outcomes include the potential enhanced access to 
specialized care, minimized financial and logistical costs, and the provision of 
a standardized, effective model for the remote diagnosis, treatment, and 
follow-up. This model could be applied not only in Greece, but also in other 
countries with similar healthcare systems and populations living in remote, 
difficult-to-access areas.

DOI: 10.3390/geriatrics10040094
PMCID: PMC12286049
PMID: 40700289

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


6. Curr Issues Mol Biol. 2025 May 26;47(6):392. doi: 10.3390/cimb47060392.

Testing Protein Stress Signals in Peripheral Immunocytes Under the Same 
Treatment Capable of Decreasing the Incidence of Alzheimer's Disease in Bladder 
Cancer Patients.

Klein BY(1), Gofrit ON(2), Greenblatt CL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Hebrew University Medical 
School, Jerusalem 91120, Israel.
(2)Department of Urology, Hadassah University Medical School, Ein-Karem, 
Jerusalem 91120, Israel.

Several studies showed that the incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is 
significantly lower in patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) 
treated with intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) instillations compared 
to treatment by alternative methods. Hypothetically, failure to clear misfolded 
and aggregated proteins (i.e., beta-amyloid) in AD brains and peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells (PBMCs) implicates BCG in upgrading the unfolded protein 
response (UPR). To test this hypothesis, pre- versus post-BCG PBMC proteins of 
the UPR pathway were compared in six NMIBC patients by capillary 
immunoelectrophoresis on an Abby instrument. PERK, the endoplasmic reticulum 
(ER) resident kinase, a stress-activated sensor, and its substrate alpha 
component of the eIF2 translation factor (eIF2a) complex inactivation were 
considered as potentially proapoptotic via a downstream proapoptotic 
transcription factor only if persistently high. GAPDH, a glycolytic marker of 
innate immunocyte training by BCG, and eight other UPR proteins were considered 
antiapoptotic. Summation of antiapoptotic %change scores per patient showed that 
the older the age, the lower the antiapoptotic %change. Higher antiapoptotic 
scores were observed upon a longer time from BCG treatment (with the exception 
of the patient in her ninth decade of life). Studies with more individuals could 
substantiate that BCG enhances the antiapoptotic aggregate-clearance effect of 
the UPR in PBMCs of NMIBC patients, which hypothetically protects brain cells 
against AD.

DOI: 10.3390/cimb47060392
PMCID: PMC12191531
PMID: 40699791

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest of 
the study; in the collection, analysis, or interpretation of data; in the 
writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to publish the results.


7. Curr Issues Mol Biol. 2025 Apr 8;47(4):259. doi: 10.3390/cimb47040259.

Protein Misfolding and Aggregation as a Mechanistic Link Between Chronic Pain 
and Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Brezic N(1)(2), Gligorevic S(1)(2), Sic A(1)(2), Knezevic NN(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL 60657, USA.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Illinois, Chicago, IL 60612, USA.
(4)Department of Surgery, University of Illinois, Chicago, IL 60612, USA.

Chronic pain, defined by persistent pain beyond normal healing time, is a 
pervasive and debilitating condition affecting up to 30-50% of adults globally. 
In parallel, neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
Parkinson's disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are 
characterized by progressive neuronal loss and cognitive or motor decline, often 
underpinned by pathological protein misfolding and aggregation. Emerging 
evidence suggests a potential mechanistic link between chronic pain and NDs, 
with persistent pain contributing to neuroinflammatory states and protein 
homeostasis disturbances that mirror processes in neurodegeneration. This review 
explores the hypothesis that protein misfolding and aggregation serve as a 
mechanistic bridge between chronic pain and neurodegeneration. We systematically 
examine molecular pathways of protein misfolding, proteostasis dysfunction in 
chronic pain, and shared neuroimmune mechanisms, highlighting prion-like 
propagation of misfolded proteins, chronic neuroinflammation, and oxidative 
stress as common denominators. We further discuss evidence from experimental 
models and clinical studies linking chronic pain to accelerated 
neurodegenerative pathology-including tau accumulation, amyloid dysregulation, 
and microglial activation-and consider how these insights open avenues for novel 
therapeutics. Targeting protein aggregation, enhancing chaperone function, 
modulating the unfolded protein response (UPR), and attenuating glial activation 
are explored as potential strategies to mitigate chronic pain and possibly slow 
neurodegeneration. Understanding this intersection not only elucidates chronic 
pain's role in cognitive decline but also suggests that interventions addressing 
proteostasis and inflammation could yield dual benefits in pain management and 
neurodegenerative disease modification.

DOI: 10.3390/cimb47040259
PMCID: PMC12026403
PMID: 40699658

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


8. Curr Top Med Chem. 2025 Jul 22. doi: 10.2174/0115680266343814250713100224. 
Online ahead of print.

Computer-aided Drug Design for Alzheimer's Disease: Recent Advancements and 
Future Perspectives.

Rohilla S(1), Goyal G(2).

Author information:
(1)Gurugram University, Pharmaceutical Sciences, Gurugram, India.
(2)SGT College of Pharmacy, SGT University, Pharmaceutical Sciences, Gurugram, 
India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder marked by a decline in 
cognitive function and memory loss, primarily resulting from cholinergic 
dysfunction, the accumulation of amyloid plaques, the formation of tau tangles, 
and the progressive degeneration of neurons. While existing treatments offer 
limited symptomatic relief, they do not effectively halt or reverse the 
underlying progression of the disease, presenting a major global challenge in 
Alzheimer's research. Developing therapeutic strategies for AD remains complex, 
largely due to the inability of current medications to significantly slow 
neurodegeneration. Traditional drug discovery processes are often lengthy, 
costly, and inefficient, further complicating the search for effective 
treatments. To overcome these obstacles, researchers have turned to a 
combination of computational approaches alongside conventional drug design 
techniques. These integrated methodologies help accelerate the discovery process 
by significantly reducing both time and costs. This review delves into the 
underlying physiological and pathological mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease, 
while identifying potential drug targets such as acetylcholinesterase, 
butyrylcholinesterase, β-Secretase (BACE-1), A2A adenosine receptor, Dickkopf-1 
protein, glycogen synthase kinase-3β, indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, monoamine 
oxidase-B, NMDA receptor, Wnt inhibitory factor, cyclindependent kinase-5, 
glutaminyl cyclase, and cathepsin-B. Furthermore, the review examines various 
computer-aided drug design (CADD) methodologies, including structure-based and 
ligandbased approaches, virtual screening, pharmacophore modeling, molecular 
modelling, and simulation techniques. These computational strategies are playing 
an increasingly important role in Alzheimer's research, particularly in drug 
discovery. By investigating promising drug candidates and lead molecules that 
target key proteins involved in Alzheimer's pathogenesis, the review highlights 
their binding modes with these targets and assesses the chemical properties 
essential for the development of effective clinical candidates. The aim is to 
provide researchers with critical insights and tools to design novel compounds 
with the necessary chemical and physical characteristics required for the 
successful treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115680266343814250713100224
PMID: 40698680


9. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 2025 Jul 23:8919887251361578. doi: 
10.1177/08919887251361578. Online ahead of print.

Targeting Inflammation in Alzheimer's Disease: Insights Into Pathophysiology and 
Therapeutic Avenues-A Comprehensive Review.

Topalis V(1)(2), Voros C(3), Ziaka M(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Inselspital, University Hospital, 
University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Clinic of Internal Medicine, Thun Hospital, Thun, Switzerland.
(3)1st Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Alexandra General Hospital, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(4)Clinic of Geriatric Medicine, Center of Geriatric Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Kantonsspital Baselland, Bruderholz, Switzerland.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common dementia, affecting mainly older 
adults, particularly over 65. Characterized by progressive cognitive 
decline-including deficits in memory, executive functions, and language, 
alongside behavioral disturbances-AD arises from complex pathophysiological 
mechanisms. These include neurotransmitter imbalances, cholinergic deficits, 
amyloid-beta (Aβ) toxicity, tau protein hyperphosphorylation, oxidative stress, 
synaptic dysfunction, and neuroinflammatory processes. Growing evidence 
highlights the protective role of microglia in AD pathology through their immune 
functions, phagocytic clearance of Aβ proteins, and trophic support to promote 
tissue repair and maintain cerebral homeostasis, as alterations in their 
response to Aβ are linked to an increased risk of AD. However, disruptions in 
homeostasis or tissue alterations may trigger microglial activation, leading to 
detrimental effects such as increased inflammatory activity, impaired 
microglial-mediated clearance, synapse loss, and neuronal damage. Astrocytes, a 
distinct type of glial cell with homeostatic functions, also exhibit 
neuroprotective effects. However, the presence of Aβ may result in astrocyte 
reactivity, leading to neurotoxic effects associated with disturbances of 
calcium levels, activation of proinflammatory pathways, gliotransmission, 
altered tau metabolism, and impaired clearance of Aβ. Despite substantial 
research, AD remains challenging to diagnose early and lacks effective 
treatments. Given its multifactorial nature, therapeutic approaches primarily 
aim to slow progression and remain limited in achieving a definitive cure. While 
most current strategies focus on mitigating the toxic effects of Aβ and tau 
proteins, growing interest has emerged in addressing neuroinflammation as a 
potential means to delay or prevent neurodegeneration. Targeting 
neuroinflammation could open new therapeutic avenues for the treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.1177/08919887251361578
PMID: 40698455


10. Circ Genom Precis Med. 2025 Aug;18(4):e004911. doi:
10.1161/CIRCGEN.124.004911.  Epub 2025 Jul 23.

Risk for Heart Failure and Atrial Fibrillation Across the Lifespan for Carriers 
of the Amyloidogenic p.V142I TTR Variant.

Grodin JL(1), Gupta A(1), Rison I Jr(1), Kozlitina J(2), Saelices-Gomez L(3), 
Girotra S(1), Shah AM(1), Roth LR(1), Griffin JM(4), Drazner MH(1), Tang WHW(5), 
Maurer MS(6), de Lemos JA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (I.R., J.L.G., A.G., S.G., 
A.M.S., L.R.R., M.H.D., J.A.L.), Dallas.
(2)Eugene McDermott Center for Human Growth and Development (J.K.), Dallas.
(3)Center for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, Department of 
Biophysics, Peter O'Donnell Jr. Brain Institute (L.S.-G.), Dallas.
(4)Division of Cardiology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 
(J.M.G.).
(5)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic, OH (W.H.W.T.).
(6)Cardiac Amyloidosis Program, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New 
York Presbyterian Hospital (M.S.M.).

BACKGROUND: To better define the importance of the amyloidogenic p.V142I TTR 
allele across the life span of a carrier, we leveraged data from All of Us to 
provide a generalizable assessment of the population-level burden of 
cardiovascular risk and estimate the age at disease onset.
METHODS: We included self-identifying Black participants in All of Us who 
provided genomic data (N=77 767). The exposure of interest was p.V142I TTR 
carrier status (N=2213). Outcomes included incident heart failure (HF), atrial 
fibrillation, and carpal tunnel syndrome.
RESULTS: The median (interquartile range) age at enrollment was 56 (42-64) 
years. For the subset with genetic ancestry data (N=50 516), the p.V142I TTR 
carrier frequency was 3.5% (N=1771) among those with African ancestry. After 
adjustment for age and traditional risk factors, p.V142I TTR carrier status was 
associated with a greater risk of HF (odds ratio, 1.56 [95% CI, 1.22-1.99]; 
P=0.001), atrial fibrillation (odds ratio, 1.3 [95% CI, 1.08-1.90]; P=0.013), 
and carpal tunnel syndrome (odds ratio, 1.94 [95% CI, 1.43-2.63]; P<0.001).The 
risks increased in the sixth decade of life. In carriers, the attributable risk 
of the variant for HF, atrial fibrillation, and carpal tunnel syndrome was 27%, 
26%, and 43%, respectively. While traditional HF risk factors did not modify the 
association of carrier status with HF (P-interaction >0.05 for all), their 
presence substantially augmented the risk of HF over a lifetime.
CONCLUSIONS: p.V142I TTR carriers are at an increased risk of HF and atrial 
fibrillation, beginning during the sixth decade of life. HF risk rises in a 
dose-dependent manner with other nonamyloid-related HF risk factors, 
highlighting the importance of aggressive treatment of HF risk factors among 
carriers. These observations also confirm the clinical relevance of the p.V142I 
TTR variant for individuals of African ancestry and underscore the importance of 
efforts to increase diagnoses, implement TTR-targeted therapies, and evaluate 
screening strategies for variant transthyretin cardiac amyloidosis.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCGEN.124.004911
PMCID: PMC12313181
PMID: 40698407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr Grodin also reports consulting fees from 
Pfizer, Eidos/BridgeBio, Alexion, Intellia, Tenax Therapeutics, AstraZeneca, 
Lumanity, Ultromics, and Novo Nordisk. Dr Shah reports consulting fees from 
Philips Ultrasound and Janssen. Dr Saelices-Gomez reports consulting fees from 
Intellia, Attralus, and Alexion. Ms. Roth reports consulting fees from 
Eidos/BridgeBio. Dr Griffin reports consulting fees from Pfizer and 
Eidos/BridgeBio. Dr Tang has served as a consultant for Sequana Medical, Cardiol 
Therapeutics, Genomics plc, Zehna Therapeutics, WhiteSwell, Boston Scientific, 
CardiaTec Biosciences, Intellia Therapeutics, Bristol Myers Squibb, Alleviant 
Medical, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, and Salubris Biotherapeutics, BioCardiac, and 
has received honorarium from Springer, Belvoir Media Group, and the American 
Board of Internal Medicine. Dr Maurer reports personal fees from Alnylam, Novo 
Nordisk, AstraZeneca, Ionis, and Intellia. Dr de Lemos reports grant support 
from Abbott Diagnostics and fees for participation in data monitoring committees 
from AstraZeneca, Novo Nordisk, Eli Lilly, Merck, Regeneron, Amgen, Johnson & 
Johnson, and Verve Therapeutics. The other authors report no conflicts.


11. Rom J Ophthalmol. 2025 Apr-Jun;69(2):200-207. doi: 10.22336/rjo.2025.32.

Ganglion Cell Layer Thickness as a Biomarker for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 
Functional Outcome: An OCT study.

Singh D(1), Singhal S(2), Kanaujiya V(1), Ranjan A(1), Mani VE(2), Paliwal 
VK(2), Jain V(1), Aishwarya A(1), Agarwal R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Lucknow, India.
(2)Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Lucknow, India.

AIM: This study aims to evaluate various optical coherence tomography (OCT) 
parameters in patients diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
METHODS: Assessment of BCVA was done using Snellen charts, and subjective 
refraction was done to achieve a BCVA for distance and near. Measurement of 
intraocular pressure (IOP) was done with Goldman applanation tonometry. 
Stereoscopic fundus examination was performed using a 90D lens to assess the 
status of the optic nerve and retina, ruling out any ocular pathology. The 
patients were then subjected to OCT scanning to measure optic nerve head and 
macular parameters. Optical coherence tomography was performed using CIRRUS™ HD 
OCT (500-21822) (version 8.0.0.518) (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA, USA). The 
analyzed area was centered manually, and the absence of segmentation errors was 
confirmed for each scan.
RESULTS: RE Avg RNFL and LE Avg RNFL showed weak correlations with ALSFRS, 
indicated by Pearson Correlation coefficients of 0.073 and -0.026, respectively. 
The p-values (0.637 and 0.86) suggested that these correlations were not 
statistically significant. RE Avg GCL and LE Avg GCL, on the other hand, 
exhibited moderate positive correlations with ALSFRS scores, with correlation 
coefficients of 0.337 (RE) and 0.389 (LE). These correlations were statistically 
significant, as indicated by p-values of 0.021 and 0.006, respectively, 
suggesting a substantial association between GCL thickness and ALS functional 
outcomes.
DISCUSSION: All patients in our study were clinically diagnosed cases of ALS, as 
per the El Escorial criteria. Age group-wise analysis showed statistically 
significant thinning overall as well as quadrant-wise RNFL parameters in 
patients less than 50 years compared to age-matched controls, indicating that 
the pathological process occurring in larger motor neurons in ALS might also be 
happening in smaller sensory neurons of the retina, causing thinning, which was 
not due to age-related process. Although GCIPL thinning was occurring in our 
cases, though statistically not significant compared to control, the significant 
positive correlation observed between GCIPL and ALS functional outcome and 
between RNFL and GCIPL measurements highlighted the fact that though the axonal 
degeneration in retinal neurons might not be translating to the same extent in 
ganglion cells in ALS, the subtle thinning of GCIPL correlated strongly with 
functional disability in patients with ALS, implying better functional scores 
with higher values of GCIPL parameters.
CONCLUSION: In summary, GCL measurements in both eyes showed a notable 
relationship with ALSFRS, whereas RNFL did not appear to correlate 
significantly.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.22336/rjo.2025.32
PMCID: PMC12277982
PMID: 40698100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors state no conflict of interest.


12. Brain Behav Immun Health. 2025 Jul 11;48:101061. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbih.2025.101061. eCollection 2025 Oct.

Exploring GPR120/FFAR4 pharmacology: Unveiling novel therapeutic avenues through 
molecular signaling pathways for Alzheimer's disease intervention.

Gogu P(1), Bharti J(1), Yadav JP(2), Grishina M(3), Verma A(2), Kumar V(2), 
Singh AK(2)(4), Verma A(5), Kumar P(4), Khalilullah H(6), Jaremko M(7), Emwas 
AH(8), Dwivedi AR(1), Pathak P(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Drug Discovery, School of Pharmacy, GITAM (Deemed to be 
University), 502239, India.
(2)Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Research Laboratory, School of Pharmacy, 
Sam Higginbottam Institute of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, 211007, 
India.
(3)Laboratory of Computational Modeling of Drugs, Higher Medical and Biological 
School, South Ural State University, 226026, Russia.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Natural Products, Central 
University of Punjab, Ghudda, Bathinda, 151401, India.
(5)Teerthanker Mahaveer College of Pharmacy, Teerthanker Mahaveer University, 
Moradabad, 244001, U.P., India.
(6)Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, 
Qassim University, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Smart-Health Initiative and Red Sea Research Center, Division of Biological 
and Environmental Sciences and Engineering, King Abdullah University of Science 
and Technology, Thuwal, 23955-6900, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Core Labs, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Thuwal, 
23955-6900, Saudi Arabia.

G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are a major class of membrane proteins 
involved in numerous physiological and pathological processes. Among them, free 
fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4/GPR120), activated by long-chain free fatty acids, 
has shown anti-inflammatory effects and is expressed in the brain-implicating 
its role in neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD is 
characterized by brain atrophy, cognitive decline, and neuroinflammation, 
involving complex signaling networks. This review explores the pharmacological 
relevance of GPR120/FFAR4 in AD, focusing on its involvement in 
neuroinflammatory, amyloidogenic, and intracellular signaling cascades. 
Targeting GPR120 may help modulate chronic inflammation and amyloid-β 
accumulation. Additionally, activation of nuclear receptors and regulation of 
pathways such as MAPK, NLRP3, PPARs, and cAMP have shown promise in mitigating 
AD pathology. Despite the complexity of brain signaling, GPR120 emerges as a 
compelling multitarget therapeutic receptor. These insights provide a foundation 
for developing novel anti-inflammatory strategies in AD treatment.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbih.2025.101061
PMCID: PMC12281026
PMID: 40697975

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no conflict of interest.


13. RSC Adv. 2025 Jul 21;15(32):25910-25928. doi: 10.1039/d5ra03578c. eCollection
 2025 Jul 21.

Precision targeting of the CNS: recent progress in brain-directed nanodrug 
delivery.

Senanayake D(1), Yapa P(1), Dabare S(1), Munaweera I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Applied Sciences, University of Sri 
Jayewardenepura Nugegoda 10250 Sri Lanka imalka@sjp.ac.lk 
dinithisenanayake3@gmail.com piumikayapa@gmail.com dabaresanduni@gmail.com.

The therapeutic drug penetration into brain tissues meets limitations through 
the restrictive function of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) within the central 
nervous system (CNS). The advancement of nanocarrier engineering techniques 
allows scientists to develop nanoscale delivery vehicles that successfully cross 
the BBB. This review analyses modern brain-delivery nanodrug delivery platforms 
by examining the properties and distribution of liposomes and polymeric 
nanoparticles, dendrimers, solid lipid nanoparticles, and exosomes. 
Organizations use specific physicochemical approaches designed for each platform 
to boost brain penetration and enhance therapeutic drug distribution for 
improving drug effectiveness. An analysis is presented of the various procedures 
to cross or bypass the BBB where receptor-mediated transcytosis joins focused 
ultrasound, as well as magnetic targeting and chemical modifications. The 
article presents therapeutic developments regarding neurological treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease, alongside Parkinson's disease and glioblastoma. Early 
laboratory success has produced promising results, yet challenges persist during 
the translation of these findings for clinical use because of safety issues as 
well as compatibility problems and difficulties with scaling up manufacturing 
processes. Finally, it discusses regulatory advancements and describes active 
market trends in nanomedicine that focus on precise delivery techniques and 
combination treatment methods, and brain-targeted delivery systems. The 
innovations combined present an optimistic future for CNS drug development 
because they create substantial opportunities to reshape neurological disorder 
treatments.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d5ra03578c
PMCID: PMC12278267
PMID: 40697447

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


14. Front Hum Neurosci. 2025 Jul 8;19:1595737. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2025.1595737. 
eCollection 2025.

A vagal route to memory: evidence from invasive and non-invasive electrical 
vagus nerve stimulation studies and areas for future clinical application.

Szeska C(1), Ventura-Bort C(1), Giraudier M(1), Weymar M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Psychology and Affective Science, Faculty of Human 
Sciences, University of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences Brandenburg, University of Potsdam, Potsdam, 
Germany.

The ability to remember emotionally significant stimuli and stimulus 
associations is critical to survival, as it ensures that rewarding and 
threatening events can be recalled to guide future behavior. Consequently, 
events are consolidated more strongly into long-term memory as they are encoded 
under heightened emotional arousal. Such memory prioritization is partly driven 
by the release of peripheral adrenaline, which acts as a bodily signal 
emphasizing an event's emotional significance and enhances plasticity in the 
brain. Animal research suggest that the vagus nerve translates elevated 
peripheral adrenaline into central noradrenergic activation of memory-relevant 
brain areas via its projections to the brainstem locus coeruleus-the main source 
of noradrenaline in the brain. The possibility of vagus nerve stimulation (VNS), 
both invasively (iVNS) and non-invasively (i.e., transcutaneously; tVNS), has 
opened up new avenues to test a potential vagal route to memory in humans whilst 
circumventing the necessity of actual peripheral adrenergic release. Here, we 
briefly review recent research applying iVNS and tVNS in a variety of animal and 
human emotional episodic memory and Pavlovian conditioning and extinction 
learning experiments, supporting a critical role of the vagus nerve in 
modulating emotional memories. Based on this body of evidence, we highlight 
clinical areas where VNS may therefore serve as an adjunct to treatments for 
neurocognitive, anxiety- and trauma-related disorders, that aim at improving 
learning and memory consolidation. In fact, a brief review of (sub-) clinical 
studies shows that VNS alleviates symptoms in mild cognitive impairment, 
Alzheimer's disease as well as anxiety- and trauma-related disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Szeska, Ventura-Bort, Giraudier and Weymar.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2025.1595737
PMCID: PMC12279881
PMID: 40697334

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


15. J Alzheimers Dis Rep. 2025 Jul 21;9:25424823251359579. doi: 
10.1177/25424823251359579. eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

Association between genetically proxied PPARG activation and early onset 
Alzheimer's disease: A drug target Mendelian randomization study.

Zhang L(1), Wu Y(2), Jin Q(3), Wang C(1).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Animal Center of Shanxi Medical University, Shanxi Key 
Laboratory of Human Disease and Animal Models, Taiyuan, China.
(2)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China.
(3)Department of Forensic Pathology, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China.

BACKGROUND: Early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD), which has an onset before 
the age of 65, is overshadowed by the more prevalent late-onset Alzheimer's 
disease (LOAD). Nevertheless, rather than being merely a form of LOAD that 
occurs at a prematurely defined younger age, EOAD differs from LOAD in multiple 
ways. Given these disparities, understanding the potential treatment options for 
EOAD becomes crucial.
OBJECTIVE: We aim to assess anti-diabetic drugs' potential utility in treating 
EOAD and LOAD from a novel perspective via drug-targeted Mendelian randomization 
(MR) analysis.
METHODS: Through Summary-data-based MR (SMR) and inverse-variance-weighted MR 
(IVW-MR) analysis, we assessed the associations between anti-diabetic drug 
targets (including DPP-4 inhibitor, Thiazolidinedione, GLP1R agonist, 
Sulfonylureas, SLC5A2 inhibitor, and Insulin/Insulin analog) and AD outcomes 
(EOAD and LOAD). We utilized two types of genetic instruments to represent the 
exposure to anti-diabetic drugs: eQTLs of genes encoding drug target proteins 
and genetic variants within or near genes encoding these target proteins 
associated with HbA1c from genome-wide association studies.
RESULTS: SMR analysis showed that enhanced PPARG gene expression in the blood 
was a protective factor for EOAD (OR = 0.733, 95%CI = 0.548-0.979, p = 0.035). 
Additionally, an IVW-MR association was found between HbA1c mediated by PPARG 
and EOAD (OR = 0.295, 95%CI = 0.092-0.949, p = 0.041).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that Thiazolidinedione therapy could help 
suppress the development of EOAD, supporting further exploration of 
PPARG-targeted anti-diabetic drug development.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/25424823251359579
PMCID: PMC12280270
PMID: 40697193

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


16. Histol Histopathol. 2025 Jul 11:18965. doi: 10.14670/HH-18-965. Online ahead
of  print.

NeuN expression in health and disease: A histological perspective on neuronal 
heterogeneity.

Moon J(1)(2), Ahn JH(3), Won MH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Kangwon National University Hospital, 
Chuncheon, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, School of Medicine, Kangwon National 
University, Chuncheon, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Health Science, Youngsan 
University, Yangsan, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, School of Medicine, Kangwon National 
University, Chuncheon, Republic of Korea. mhwon@kangwon.ac.kr.

Neuronal nuclei (NeuN), also known as Rbfox3, is a widely used neuronal marker 
for identifying postmitotic neurons in both basic neuroscience and diagnostic 
neuropathology. Since its discovery, NeuN immunoreactivity has enabled accurate 
neuron counting, injury assessment, and anatomical mapping. However, 
accumulating evidence demonstrates that NeuN is not universally expressed across 
all mature neurons. Specific neuron types, such as olfactory mitral cells, 
cerebellar Purkinje cells, and retinal photoreceptors, consistently lack NeuN 
immunostaining despite functional maturity. Moreover, NeuN expression is 
dynamically regulated under pathological conditions. In ischemia-reperfusion 
(I/R) injury, neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Alzheimer's and Parkinson's), 
and traumatic brain injury or epilepsy-selected for their representative 
diversity in pathophysiological stress (ischemic, degenerative, and 
mechanical)-NeuN downregulation may reflect functional compromise, stress 
responses, or reversible transcriptional changes rather than irreversible cell 
loss. These findings highlight the limitations of interpreting NeuN negativity 
as neuronal death. This review synthesizes recent findings on NeuN expression 
patterns, molecular mechanisms regulating its presence or absence, and the 
implications for research and diagnosis. We propose that NeuN should not be 
regarded as a binary marker but rather as a dynamic indicator of neuronal state. 
Multi-marker strategies and molecular tools such as spatial transcriptomics and 
RNA sequencing are suggested to improve the resolution of neuronal analysis. As 
histological and transcriptomic approaches converge, NeuN's role will likely 
expand from a structural identifier to a contextual readout of neuronal 
integrity and function.

©The Author(s) 2025. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative 
Commons CC-BY International License.

DOI: 10.14670/HH-18-965
PMID: 40697072


17. Int J Surg. 2025 Jul 22. doi: 10.1097/JS9.0000000000002841. Online ahead of 
print.

Adipose-derived stem cell exosomes: multifaceted therapeutic applications in 
regenerative medicine.

Rau CS(1), Kuo PJ(2), Hsieh CH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang 
Gung University College of Medicine, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Plastic Surgery, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and 
Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Taiwan.

Adipose-derived stem cell exosomes (ADSC-Exos) have emerged as promising 
cell-free therapeutic agents in regenerative medicine, offering many benefits of 
stem cell therapy without the risks of cell transplantation. These nanoscale 
vesicles (30-150 nm) contain bioactive cargo including proteins, microRNAs, and 
lipids that mediate tissue repair through multiple mechanisms: promoting 
angiogenesis, modulating inflammation, reducing fibrosis, and activating 
endogenous regenerative pathways. Recent preclinical studies demonstrate 
remarkable efficacy across diverse applications, from accelerating chronic wound 
healing and stimulating skin regeneration to repairing cartilage, bone, and 
nerve tissues. In cardiovascular applications, ADSC-Exos protect against 
ischemic damage and improve cardiac function post-infarction. Neurologically, 
they show potential in stroke recovery, spinal cord injury, and 
neurodegenerative diseases by crossing the blood-brain barrier and delivering 
neuroprotective signals. Their potent immunomodulatory properties make them 
candidates for treating inflammatory and autoimmune conditions. Early clinical 
trials report encouraging safety profiles and preliminary efficacy in conditions 
ranging from acne scarring to Alzheimer's disease. However, significant 
challenges remain in standardizing isolation methods, ensuring consistent 
potency, scaling production to clinically relevant quantities, and establishing 
optimal delivery strategies. This review synthesizes recent advances and 
limitations in ADSC-Exo research across various clinical applications, examines 
their underlying mechanisms of action, discusses current translational 
challenges, and highlights the potential of these versatile nanoparticles to 
transform regenerative medicine as off-the-shelf, cell-free therapeutics for 
multiple disease states.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/JS9.0000000000002841
PMID: 40696930


18. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70533. doi: 10.1002/alz.70533.

Reply to "Reconsidering dopaminergic modulation in Alzheimer's disease: A case 
for levodopa/carbidopa as a disease-modifying agent".

Sárkány Z(1)(2), Damásio J(1)(3)(4)(5), Macedo-Ribeiro S(1)(2), Martins 
PM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)i3S - Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(2)IBMC - Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular, Universidade do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(3)Centro de Genética Preditiva e Preventiva (CGPP), IBMC Universidade do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(4)Neurology Department, Centro Hospitalar Universitário de Santo António, ULS 
de Santo António, Porto, Portugal.
(5)ICBAS School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Universidade do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70533
PMCID: PMC12284310
PMID: 40696846

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing 
interests: Z.S., S.M.R., and P.M.M. are co‐inventors in provisional patent 
applications for the use of low‐dose levodopa formulations for the treatment of 
neurodegenerative disorders. J.D. served as a consultant for Biogen and 
Biohaven. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


19. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):314-327. doi: 10.1177/13872877251360009.
Epub  2025 Jul 22.

Drug repurposing for Alzheimer's disease integrating transcriptome-wide 
association study and biological network analysis.

Wang X(1)(2), Wang M(3), Wang H(4), Yin G(2), Zhang YD(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Information Science and Engineering, Northeastern University, 
Shenyang, China.
(2)Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, School of Computing and Data 
Science, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(3)Department of Neurology & Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(4)College of Science, China Agricultural University, Beijing, China.

BackgroundThe accumulation of particular protein deposits connected to molecular 
mechanisms is one of the many brain abnormalities associated with Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), a complex neurodegenerative illness. There are currently no 
effective disease-modifying treatments for AD.ObjectiveThis study attempts to 
identify potential AD therapeutics through a biological network-based drug 
repurposing strategy, focusing on drugs targeting important proteins and 
biological pathways involved in AD pathology.MethodsA comprehensive biological 
network of AD-associated molecules and their transcription regulatory 
interactions is constructed. This computational approach integrates data from 
genome-wide association studies, multiple AD-related magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) derived phenotypes, biomolecular interactions, and gene expression 
profiles.ResultsThe constructed AD sub-regulatory network reveals significant 
correlations between transcription factors showing changed gene expression in AD 
patients relative to controls. This strategy prioritizes drug candidates based 
on their mechanisms of action, reducing the risk of clinical trial failures and 
enhancing patient outcomes related to AD. A total of 43 drug candidates have 
been identified, including 28 FDA-approved drugs, 15 experimental and 
investigational drugs that may alter biological processes pertaining to 
important facets of AD pathology. Baricitinib and Gabapentin emerge as promising 
candidates for targeting AD-related biological processes in the cerebral cortex 
and hippocampus regions.ConclusionsBy combining biological network analysis and 
MRI-driven transcriptome-wide association study, this systematic drug 
repurposing strategy demonstrates promise for identifying novel therapeutic 
options for AD and offers potential implications for addressing other complex 
neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251360009
PMID: 40696841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


20. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70484. doi: 10.1002/alz.70484.

The role of autoantibodies in Alzheimer's disease: Pathogenetic connections or 
epiphenomena?

Chatanaka MK(1), Prassas I(2), Masters CL(3), Diamandis EP(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Laboratory Medicine Program, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Sinai Health System, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: The current evidence supporting the complex, multifaceted etiology 
for Alzheimer's disease (AD) grows by the day, prompting increased research in 
non-"amyloid hypothesis"-related pathways. One of these pathways of interest 
pertains to an autoimmune component in this disease.
METHODS: In this review, we briefly discuss current evidence of potential 
contributions of autoimmunity to AD pathobiology and describe the putative role 
of autoantibodies detected in patient fluids. We draw attention to the fact that 
the reported AD-related autoantibodies differ dramatically between published 
studies, raising doubts about the reliability and robustness of these findings.
RESULTS: We hypothesize, and provide indirect evidence, that many of the 
reported autoantibodies in AD may represent false discoveries. We suggest 
follow-up validation and confirmatory studies with sufficient power, preferably 
by employing orthogonal testing techniques.
DISCUSSION: Uncovering the putative autoimmune components of AD is important and 
could pave the way to new concepts for AD pathogenesis, diagnosis, and therapy.
HIGHLIGHTS: Although Alzheimer's disease (AD) is not traditionally considered an 
autoimmune disease, growing evidence suggests immune system dysregulation and 
autoantibody generation, either in the form of naturally occurring or pathogenic 
autoantibodies. Numerous studies have discovered autoantibodies in AD, but only 
a few of them have been found independently and multiple times, including 
amyloid β (Aβ) and tau autoantibodies. Many of these findings represent false 
discoveries. Follow-up validation and confirmatory studies with sufficient power 
are imperative, preferably by employing orthogonal testing techniques. 
Understanding the immune and autoimmune landscape in AD will assist in future 
immunotherapy strategies.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70484
PMCID: PMC12284324
PMID: 40696840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


21. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70227. doi: 10.1002/alz.70227.

Real-world brain imaging in a population-based cohort enables accurate markers 
for dementia.

Sund R(1)(2), Seppänen J(1), Moradi E(3), Väänänen S(4)(5), Miettinen J(1), 
Hakumäki J(1)(4), Rikkonen T(1), Kröger H(1)(6), Koivumaa-Honkanen H(1), Solomon 
A(1)(7)(8), Tohka J(3); for Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(2)Knowledge Management Unit, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.
(3)A.I. Virtanen Institute for Molecular Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(4)Department of Clinical Radiology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(5)Department of Technical Physics, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(6)Department of Orthopaedics, Traumatology and Hand Surgery, Kuopio University 
Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.
(7)Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial College 
London, Charing Cross Hospital, London, UK.
(8)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department of 
Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: Although a vast amount of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data 
are collected for health care delivery, generating real-world evidence (RWE) in 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) research is substantially 
limited by lack of methods and results showing how routine MRI scans can be used 
for ADRD imaging studies.
METHODS: We compared three established ADRD biomarkers (total gray matter, 
hippocampal, and ventricular volumes) in four groups (normal, subjective 
complaints, mild cognitive impairment [MCI], and dementia) between the general 
population of women born in 1932-1941 in the Kuopio region of Eastern Finland 
(population-based Kuopio Osteoporosis Risk Factor and Prevention Study [OSTPRE] 
cohort, N = 14220) and a well-characterized research cohort (Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative [ADNI]).
RESULTS: A total of 2434 brain MRI scans for 1885 women were collected between 
2003 and 2022 by the public health care provider covering all residents in the 
region. The established biomarkers were overall aligned between these cohorts.
DISCUSSION: Typical biomarkers extracted from real-world brain MRI scans 
collected over 20 years are suitable for generating RWE in ADRD research.
HIGHLIGHTS: Real-world brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is applicable for 
generating evidence in Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) 
research. This is the first study comparing a real-world MRI cohort with an 
established research cohort reference. Provides a methodological framework for 
real-world evidence (RWE) ADRD studies that utilize routinely collected MRI 
scans.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70227
PMCID: PMC12284318
PMID: 40696832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in Supporting Information.


22. J Korean Med Sci. 2025 Jul 21;40(28):e215. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2025.40.e215.

Practical Guide of the Korean Association for Geriatric Psychiatry to 
Anti-Amyloid Monoclonal Antibody Therapy for Alzheimer's Disease: Focused on 
Lecanemab.

Jeon SY(#)(1), Wang SM(#)(2), Roh HW(3), Kim KY(4), Chang YY(5), Kim E(6), Bae 
JN(7), Ryu SH(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Seoul Metropolitan Government Seoul National 
University (SMG-SNU) Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Yeouido St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, 
The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Institute of Behavioral Science in Medicine, 
Metabolism-Dementia Research Institute, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Sanggye Paik Hospital, Inje University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Institute of Behavioral Science in Medicine, 
Metabolism-Dementia Research Institute, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea. eosu.kim@yonsei.ac.kr.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Inha University Hospital, Inha University College 
of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Konkuk University Medical Center, School of 
Medicine, Konkuk University, Seoul, Korea.
(#)Contributed equally

The advent of anti-amyloid monoclonal antibody (mAb) therapies represents a 
paradigm shift in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), from symptomatic 
relief to disease modification. Lecanemab, a humanized mAb targeting soluble Aβ 
protofibrils and plaque, received regulatory approval in Korea in July 2024, 
following global randomized controlled trial data demonstrating its efficacy to 
reduce amyloid burden and slow cognitive decline. However, the introduction of 
such therapies into routine clinical realm presents several practical and 
systemic challenges, particularly in the context of Korea's unique healthcare 
infrastructure and reimbursement environment. In response, the Korean 
Association for Geriatric Psychiatry has developed the first comprehensive 
domestic guidance to facilitate the safe, evidence-based, and patient-centered 
use of anti-amyloid mAb therapies, first focused on lecanemab. This practical 
guide goes beyond simple eligibility criteria. It provides detailed 
recommendations on clinical and imaging-based candidate selection, 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) risk stratification and monitoring 
protocols, infusion workflows, adverse event management strategies, and 
multidisciplinary coordination within hospital systems. It also emphasizes 
shared decision-making and outlines how to navigate situations where treatment 
is not appropriate, such as in patients with advanced dementia, high-risk 
magnetic resonance imaging findings, or poor treatment adherence, reinforcing 
that non-treatment can also represent a legitimate, evidence-based clinical 
decision. The guidance further highlights the urgent need to generate real-world 
data that reflect the treatment experiences of Korean patients. Multicenter 
collaboration will be essential for collecting data on adherence rates, ARIA 
incidence, cognitive outcomes, and functional trajectories, which in turn can 
inform policy decisions, insurance reimbursement models, and future updates to 
clinical guidelines. This publication represents the first nationwide roadmap in 
Korea to support clinicians in the appropriate integration of monoclonal 
antibody therapies for AD. By combining scientific rigor, operational 
feasibility, and ethical sensitivity, it aims to promote safe and responsible 
adoption of disease-modifying treatment across various clinical settings.

© 2025 The Korean Academy of Medical Sciences.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2025.40.e215
PMCID: PMC12284303
PMID: 40696527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


23. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 22;17(1):169. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01799-3.

CHIT1 and DDAH1 levels relate to amyloid-related imaging abnormalities risk 
profile in Alzheimer's disease patients.

Oosthoek M(1), Vijverberg EGB(2), Blujdea ER(3), Veld SGJGI(3)(4), Avilés 
MP(3)(4), Zsadanyi SE(5)(6), Hok-A-Hin YS(3), Visser A(4), van der Flier WM(2), 
Barkhof F(7)(8), Del Campo M(9), Schut MC(4), Bejanin A(5)(6), Alcolea D(5)(6), 
Teunissen CE(3), Vermunt L(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, De Boelelaan 1117, 
Amsterdam, 1081 HV, The Netherlands. m.c.oosthoek@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Alzheimer Center, Department of Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, 1081 HV, The Netherlands.
(3)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, De Boelelaan 1117, 
Amsterdam, 1081 HV, The Netherlands.
(4)Translational AI in Laboratory Medicine, Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, 1081 
HV, The Netherlands.
(5)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques Sant Pau Hospital de Sant Pau, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Center of Biomedical Investigation Network for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), C. de Melchor Fernández Almagro 3, Madrid, 28029, Spain.
(7)Department of Neuroinflammation, Queen Square MS Centre, UCL Queen Square 
Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain Science, University College of London, 
London, WC1E 6BT, UK.
(8)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, 1081 HV, The Netherlands.
(9)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, C/ 
de Wellington, 30, Barcelona, 08005, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) are a common and 
potentially dangerous side effect in anti-amyloid therapies, creating a need for 
tools to assess ARIA risk. Several patient factors have been linked to ARIA; 
namely the presence of microbleeds (MBL+), APOE E4 carriership (APOE4+), and 
extremely low CSF Aβ42 concentrations (AL). We hypothesize that studying the CSF 
proteome of Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia patients from a high-risk group 
(MBL+APOE4+AL) can inform on the biological underpinnings of ARIA risk and aid 
the progress of ARIA risk biomarkers.
METHODS: We utilized CSF proteomic data of AD (n = 156) and cognitively 
unimpaired individuals (CU n = 100) of the Amsterdam Dementia Cohort. The 
proteome of the defined high-risk (n = 13) was compared to low-risk AD group 
(n = 23), using age and sex corrected linear regressions followed by gene 
ontology analysis. For biomarker prioritization, we selected proteins that were 
abnormal in the high-risk group versus low-risk and CU patients. The biomarkers 
were validated in an independent cohort (high risk n = 14, low risk n = 9) 
analyzed using customized multiplex panels. Lastly, we assessed biomarker lead 
co-expression.
RESULTS: Ninety-four proteins differentiated in the high-risk group compared to 
low-risk (p < 0.05), none surviving FDR correction. These proteins were enriched 
for synapse-related proteins and axonogenesis. CHIT1 (vs. low-risk AD: FC = 1.0, 
p = 0.014, vs. CU: FC = 2.4, p < 0.001) and DDAH1 (vs. low-risk AD: FC=-0.31, 
p = 0.046, vs. CU: FC = 0.5, p < 0.001) were prioritized as biomarker. DDAH1 
protein changes replicated in an independent cohort (FC=-0.37, p = 0.010), and 
CHIT1 replicated on a trend level (FC = 0.70, p = 0.104). DDAH1 levels had the 
highest co-expression with synaptic process, energy utilization and RNA-binding 
cell signaling related proteins (R > 0.8).
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that in the high risk group, there is a lack 
of upregulation in synapse and axonogenesis related proteins. High CSF CHIT1 and 
less increased CSF DDAH1 levels within AD relate to ARIA risk. From the 
literature, the link to ARIA risk for CHIT1 could be its contribution to innate 
immunity or vascular amyloid deposition, and for DDAH1 to blood-brain barrier 
integrity. Biomarker assays are available to assess the potential of CHIT1 and 
DDAH1 in trials and treatment studies in the clinical setting.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01799-3
PMCID: PMC12285109
PMID: 40696469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests. 
Ethical approval and consent to participate: Ethical approval was given at the 
local review boards (Amsterdam Dementia Cohort: AD CSF biobank METC number 
00–211; SPIN cohort: COLLECTION 16/2013). Written informed consent was provided 
by all study participants or a representative.


24. Mol Brain. 2025 Jul 21;18(1):65. doi: 10.1186/s13041-025-01225-7.

Chronic oral administration of ibrutinib prevents long-term memory deficits and 
reduces AD pathology and neuroinflammatory responses in a mouse model of AD.

Lee HJ(1)(2), Kang S(3), Jeong YJ(4)(3)(5), Park JH(4), Hwang JW(4)(3), Gu 
CH(3), Jung TM(4)(3), Oh S(4)(3), Jang JY(4)(3)(5), Hoe HS(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neural Development and Disease, Korea Brain Research Institute 
(KBRI), 61, Cheomdan-ro, Daegu, 41062, Republic of Korea. hjlee@kbri.re.kr.
(2)AI-based neurodevelopmental diseases digital therapeutics group, Korea Brain 
Research Institute (KBRI), 61, Cheomdan-ro, Daegu, 41062, Republic of Korea. 
hjlee@kbri.re.kr.
(3)AI-based neurodevelopmental diseases digital therapeutics group, Korea Brain 
Research Institute (KBRI), 61, Cheomdan-ro, Daegu, 41062, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Neural Development and Disease, Korea Brain Research Institute 
(KBRI), 61, Cheomdan-ro, Daegu, 41062, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of 
Science & Technology, Daegu, 42988, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Neural Development and Disease, Korea Brain Research Institute 
(KBRI), 61, Cheomdan-ro, Daegu, 41062, Republic of Korea. sookhoe72@kbri.re.kr.
(7)AI-based neurodevelopmental diseases digital therapeutics group, Korea Brain 
Research Institute (KBRI), 61, Cheomdan-ro, Daegu, 41062, Republic of Korea. 
sookhoe72@kbri.re.kr.
(8)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of 
Science & Technology, Daegu, 42988, Republic of Korea. sookhoe72@kbri.re.kr.

We previously demonstrated that ibrutinib has therapeutic efficacy against AD 
pathologies when injected intraperitoneally at a lower dosage (10 mg/kg, daily 
for 2 weeks) or orally at a higher dosage (30 mg/kg, daily for 1 month) in AD 
mice models. However, the effect of chronic lower dose of ibrutinib by oral 
administration on AD pathologies has not been investigated yet. Therefore, we 
investigated whether long-term oral administration of ibrutinib at a lower dose 
(1 or 10 mg/kg, daily for 5 months) on AD pathology and in vivo toxicity in 
5xFAD mice. We found ibrutinib enhanced cognitive function and alleviated Aβ 
pathology in 5xFAD mice without hepatotoxicity. Furthermore, ibrutinib-treated 
5xFAD mice decrease tau hyperphosphorylation, p-GSK3α/β levels, and markers of 
neuroinflammation such as Iba-1, GFAP, and NLRP3. Collectively, these 
translational studies indicate chronic oral administration of ibrutinib at low 
doses improves cognitive function and suppresses AD pathology/neuroinflammation 
in an AD mice model thereby having potential as an effective multitarget AD 
therapeutic in clinical application.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13041-025-01225-7
PMCID: PMC12281740
PMID: 40696386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: All experimental 
procedures were approved by the institutional biosafety committee (IBC) and were 
performed in accordance with approved animal protocols and guidelines of the 
Korea Brain Research Institute (KBRI, approval nos. IACUC-19-00049 and 
IACUC-23-00020). Consent to publish: Not applicable. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


25. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Aug;33(8):4535-4552. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01854-3.  Epub 2025 Jul 22.

Polyphenolic protection: the role of mangiferin in mitigating neurodegeneration 
and neuroinflammation.

Mustafa AM(1), Bastawesy GA(2), Hatem S(3), Moussa RA(4), Hal DM(5), Fawzy 
MH(1), Mansour MA(6)(7), Abd El Hafeez MS(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Egyptian 
Russian University, Badr City, Cairo, 11829, Egypt.
(2)Biochemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Egyptian Russian University in 
Cairo, Badr City, Cairo, 11829, Egypt. ghadir-ali@eru.edu.eg.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics and Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Future University in Egypt, Cairo, Egypt. shaimaa.hatem@fue.edu.eg.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain 
Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(5)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Suez Canal University, 
Ismailia, 41522, Egypt.
(6)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Egyptian Russian 
University, Cairo-Suez Road, Badr City, Cairo, 11829, Egypt.
(7)Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, University of Kut, Al Kut, 
Wasit, 52001, Iraq.

Mangiferin, a polyphenol of natural occurrence predominantly present in 
Mangifera indica, has attracted significant interest because of its multiplicity 
of pharmacological activities, of which its neuroprotective activity is of 
particular interest. Herein, the review delves into the biosynthetic mechanisms, 
structural properties, and action mechanisms responsible for the therapeutic 
value of mangiferin in neurological disorders. Of special note is that 
mangiferin has antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic activities, 
which are responsible for its effectiveness in reducing cognitive impairments 
and neuronal damage in disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, Huntington's disease, stroke, epilepsy, depression, anxiety, and 
general cognitive decline. Though being of low bioavailability, more recent 
approaches such as chemical derivatization, nanoparticle-mediated drug delivery, 
and intranasal delivery have the promise to enhance its central nervous system 
(CNS) delivery. By combining preclinical and mechanistic studies, the review 
herein highlights the potential of mangiferin as a multitherapeutic 
neuroprotectant and addresses new approaches to facilitate its clinical 
application.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01854-3
PMCID: PMC12397172
PMID: 40696232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The author 
declares they have no conflict of interest. Ethical approval: Not Applicable. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Human and animal ethics: Not 
applicable.


26. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;12(8):100302. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100302.  Epub 2025 Jul 21.

Results of the first-in-human, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
single- and multiple-ascending dose study of BIIB113 in healthy volunteers.

Nery FC(1), Kaliszczak M(2), Suttle B(3), Jones L(4), Wu S(2), Xie J(2), Curiale 
G(2), Yesilalan E(2), Hirschhorn B(2), Wilkes D(5), Singh D(6), Bolin M(7), Nag 
S(7), Varrone A(7), Stenkrona P(7), Morén AF(7), Halldin C(7), Yachnin J(8), 
Arnold HM(2), Bullain S(2), Landen J(2), Gallagher D(2), Hering H(2).

Author information:
(1)Biogen, Cambridge, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
flavia.neryodonnell@biogen.com.
(2)Biogen, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(3)Biogen, Durham, NC, USA; qPharmetra, Raleigh, NC, USA.
(4)Biogen, Durham, NC, USA.
(5)Hammersmith Medicines Research Limited, London, UK.
(6)Medicines Evaluation Unit, The Langley Building, Manchester University NHS 
Foundation Trust, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(7)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Center for Psychiatry Research, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)Karolinska Comprehensive Cancer Center, Huddinge, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Preclinical studies have demonstrated that inhibition of the 
O-linked β-N-acetylglucosaminidase enzyme increases tau O-linked 
β-N-acetylglucosaminylation and may attenuate tau pathology in Alzheimer's 
disease.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and target 
occupancy of single- and multiple-ascending oral doses of the small-molecule 
O-linked β-N-acetylglucosaminidase inhibitor, BIIB113.
DESIGN: Study 276HV101 was a first-in-human, multicenter, Phase 1, randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, single- and multiple-ascending dose trial.
SETTING: 72 participants were enrolled from February 2022 through July 2023.
PARTICIPANTS: Adult healthy female and infertile/vasectomized male participants.
INTERVENTION: In the single-ascending dose substudy, participants received a 
single dose of placebo or BIIB113 0.5, 3, 15, or 50 mg. In the 14-day 
multiple-ascending dose substudy, participants received placebo or BIIB113 15 or 
50 mg once daily. In the target occupancy substudy, participants received either 
a single dose of BIIB113 0.5 or 3 mg or a once-daily dose of BIIB113 0.5 mg.
MEASUREMENTS: Safety and tolerability were measured by incidence of adverse 
events. Pharmacokinetic and concentration-time profiles were assessed. Target 
occupancy was evaluated using the carbon-11 BIO-1819,578 radioligand.
RESULTS: BIIB113 was generally well tolerated. Pharmacokinetics were linear over 
the dose range, with a half-life of approximately 30 h. Administration with food 
decreased the rate but did not affect the extent of absorption. There were no 
clinically meaningful differences in pharmacokinetics between elderly and 
nonelderly participants. Multiple once-daily doses of BIIB113 0.5 mg maintained 
a target occupancy of ≥90 % up to 48 h.
CONCLUSIONS: BIIB113 was well tolerated and achieved high levels of target 
occupancy.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100302
PMCID: PMC12413702
PMID: 40695677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships that may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Flavia C. Nery reports a 
relationship with Biogen, Inc that includes employment and equity or stocks. 
Shuang Wu reports a relationship with Biogen, Inc that includes employment and 
equity or stocks. Jing Xie reports a relationship with Biogen, Inc that includes 
employment and equity or stocks. Gioacchino G. Curiale reports a relationship 
with Biogen, Inc that includes employment and equity or stocks. Esin Yesilalan 
reports a relationship with Biogen, Inc that includes employment and equity or 
stocks. Beth Hirschhorn reports a relationship with Biogen, Inc that includes 
employment and equity or stocks. H. Moore Arnold reports a relationship with 
Biogen, Inc that includes employment and equity or stocks. Szofia Bullain 
reports a relationship with Biogen, Inc that includes employment and equity or 
stocks. Diana Gallagher reports a relationship with Biogen Inc that includes 
employment and equity or stocks. Heike Hering reports a relationship with 
Biogen, Inc that includes employment and equity or stocks. Maciej Kaliszczak 
reports a relationship with Biogen, Inc that includes former employment and 
equity or stocks. Jaren Landen reports a relationship with Biogen, Inc that 
includes former employment and equity or stocks. Ben Suttle reports a 
relationship with Biogen, Inc that includes consulting or an advisory role. Dave 
Singh reports a relationship with Aerogen that includes consulting or an 
advisory role. Dave Singh reports a relationship with AstraZeneca that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a relationship with Boehringer 
Ingelheim that includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a 
relationship with Chiesi Pharmaceuticals Inc that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Dave Singh reports a relationship with Cipla that includes: consulting 
or advisory. Dave Singh reports a relationship with CSL Behring LLC that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a relationship with EpiEndo 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a relationship with 
Genen tech that includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a 
relationship with GSK that includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports 
a relationship with Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited that includes: consulting 
or advisory. Dave Singh reports a relationship with Gossamer Bio Inc that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a relationship with Kinaset 
Therapeutics that includes: consulting or advisory Dave Singh reports a 
relationship with Menarini that includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh 
reports a relationship with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a relationship with Orion Corporation 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a relationship with 
PULMATRiX Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a 
relationship with Sanofi that includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh 
reports a relationship with Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Inc that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a relationship with Theravance 
Biopharma Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Dave Singh reports a 
relationship with Verona Pharma that includes: consulting or advisory. All other 
authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


27. BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care. 2025 Jul 22;13(4):e004902. doi: 
10.1136/bmjdrc-2025-004902.

Evaluating GLP-1 receptor agonists versus metformin as first-line therapy for 
reducing dementia risk in type 2 diabetes.

Sun M(1)(2), Wang X(3)(4), Lu Z(3)(4), Yang Y(3), Lv S(3), Miao M(3), Chen 
WM(5)(6)(7), Wu SY(8)(6)(7)(9)(10)(11), Zhang J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, People's Hospital of 
Zhengzhou University Zhengzhou University，Henan Provincial People's Hospital, 
Zhengzhou, Henan, China zhangjiq@zzu.edu.cn szuyuanwu5399@gmail.com 
mingyangsun1986@163.com.
(2)Institute of Electrophysiology, Henan Academy of Innovations in Medical 
Science, Zhengzhou, China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, People's Hospital of 
Zhengzhou University Zhengzhou University，Henan Provincial People's Hospital, 
Zhengzhou, Henan, China.
(4)Academy of Medical Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan, China.
(5)Graduate Institute of Business Administration, College of Management, Fu Jen 
Catholic University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Artificial Intelligence Development Center, Fu Jen Catholic University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Food Nutrition and Health Biotechnology, College of Medical and 
Health Science, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(8)Graduate Institute of Business Administration, College of Management, Fu Jen 
Catholic University, Taipei, Taiwan zhangjiq@zzu.edu.cn szuyuanwu5399@gmail.com 
mingyangsun1986@163.com.
(9)Big Data Center, Lo-Hsu Medical Foundation, Lotung Poh-Ai Hospital, Yilan, 
Taiwan.
(10)Division of Radiation Oncology, Lo-Hsu Medical Foundation,Lotung Poh-Ai 
Hospital, Yilan, Taiwan.
(11)Department of Healthcare Administration, College of Medical and Health 
Science, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan.

INTRODUCTION: No direct comparisons have evaluated glucagon-like peptide-1 
receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) versus metformin as first-line antidiabetic 
therapy for preventing dementia in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM). This study aimed to assess the comparative effectiveness of GLP-1 RAs 
and metformin in reducing dementia risk.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: This retrospective cohort study used data from a 
global health research network between 2004 and 2024. Patients with T2DM 
initiating GLP-1 RAs or metformin as first-line monotherapy were included. 
Propensity score matching was employed to balance baseline characteristics. 
Dementia incidence was analyzed using Cox proportional hazards models, with 
sensitivity analyses to confirm robustness.
RESULTS: Among 87,229 matched patients per cohort, GLP-1 RA use was associated 
with a significantly lower risk of overall dementia (adjusted HR (AHR) 0.90; 
95% CI 0.85 to 0.95), Alzheimer's disease (AD) (AHR 0.88; 95% CI 0.83 to 0.94), 
and non-vascular dementias (non-VaDs) (AHR 0.75; 95% CI 0.70 to 0.81) compared 
with metformin. No significant difference was observed for VaD. Subgroup 
analyses showed consistent benefit across age and sex, with the strongest effect 
among older adults and females.
CONCLUSIONS: GLP-1 RAs were more effective than metformin in reducing the risk 
of dementia-especially AD and non-vascular types-highlighting their potential as 
a preferred first-line treatment in T2DM. Further randomized trials are 
warranted to validate these findings.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjdrc-2025-004902
PMCID: PMC12306345
PMID: 40695613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


28. Pharmacol Res. 2025 Sep;219:107861. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2025.107861. Epub
2025  Jul 20.

Liver X receptors: A therapeutic target in demyelinating disorders.

Richartz J(1), Yam SC(2), Zhan N(3), Schepers M(4), Tiane A(4), Mulder MT(2), 
Wens I(4), Vanmierlo T(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedical Research Institute, Hasselt 
University, Agoralaan building D, Diepenbeek 3590, Belgium.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Section Pharmacology and Vascular Medicine, 
Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam 3015 GE, the Netherlands.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Department of Physiology, School 
of Basic Medical Sciences, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou 511436, 
China.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedical Research Institute, Hasselt 
University, Agoralaan building D, Diepenbeek 3590, Belgium; University MS Center 
(UMSC), 3590 Diepenbeek, Pelt 3900, Belgium; Mental Health and Neuroscience 
Research Institute, Maastricht University, Universiteitssingel 50, Maastricht 
6229 ER, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedical Research Institute, Hasselt 
University, Agoralaan building D, Diepenbeek 3590, Belgium; Department of 
Internal Medicine, Section Pharmacology and Vascular Medicine, Erasmus 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam 3015 GE, the Netherlands; University MS 
Center (UMSC), 3590 Diepenbeek, Pelt 3900, Belgium; Mental Health and 
Neuroscience Research Institute, Maastricht University, Universiteitssingel 50, 
Maastricht 6229 ER, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
t.vanmierlo@maastrichtuniversity.nl.

Liver X Receptors (LXRα and LXRβ) are nuclear receptors that regulate various 
metabolic processes via transcriptional regulation, including lipid and 
cholesterol homeostasis. Recent evidence highlights the involvement of LXR 
activation in myelin synthesis and maintenance. Given the essential role of 
myelin in neuronal communication, its loss in disorders such as multiple 
sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease underlines the urgent need for effective 
remyelinating therapies. Restoring the functions of oligodendrocytes to 
stimulate remyelination offers an interesting approach to protect neurons and 
slow down neurodegeneration. LXRs have been suggested as potential therapeutic 
targets in demyelinating disorders as they can promote cholesterol turnover and 
reduce inflammation, creating a favorable environment for remyelination. 
Furthermore, activation of LXR directly enhances remyelination by inducing 
myelin genes. Since various literature and research describe the potential 
neuroprotective and (re)myelinating benefits of LXR, this review discusses the 
role of the LXR pathway in (re)myelinating strategies. It highlights the 
pharmacological compounds for LXR activation, as well as naturally occurring LXR 
agonists with potential therapeutic value for promoting remyelination.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2025.107861
PMID: 40695410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
have nothing to declare.


29. Neuroimage. 2025 Sep;318:121381. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2025.121381. Epub 
2025 Jul 20.

A large-scale multi-centre study characterising atrophy heterogeneity in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Venkatraghavan V(1), Archetti D(2), Bourgeat P(3), Jiang C(4), Ten Kate M(5), 
van Loenhoud AC(4), Ossenkoppele R(6), Teunissen CE(7), van de Giessen E(8), 
Pijnenburg YAL(4), Frisoni GB(9), Weiss B(10), Vidnyánszky Z(11), Auer T(12), 
Durrleman S(13), Redolfi A(2), Laws SM(14), Maruff P(15), Oxtoby NP(16), Altmann 
A(16), Alexander DC(16), van der Flier WM(17), Barkhof F(18), Tijms BM(4); 
Australian Imaging Biomarkers and Lifestyle Study, for the Alzheimer’s Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative, for the E-DADS Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Centre Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam UMC, 
location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
v.venkatraghavan@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Laboratory of Neuroinformatics, IRCCS Istituto Centro San Giovanni di Dio 
Fatebenefratelli, Brescia, Italy.
(3)The Australian e-Health Research Centre, CSIRO Health and Biosecurity, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(4)Alzheimer Centre Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam UMC, 
location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Alzheimer Centre Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam UMC, 
location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Clinical Memory Research Unit, 
Lund University, Sweden.
(7)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; 
Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(8)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Brain Imaging, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(9)Laboratory of Neuroimaging of Aging (LANVIE), University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland; Geneva Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, 
Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(10)Brain Imaging Centre, HUN-REN Research Centre for Natural Sciences, 
Budapest, Hungary; Machine Perception Research Laboratory, HUN-REN Institute for 
Computer Science and Control, Budapest, Hungary.
(11)Brain Imaging Centre, HUN-REN Research Centre for Natural Sciences, 
Budapest, Hungary.
(12)Brain Imaging Centre, HUN-REN Research Centre for Natural Sciences, 
Budapest, Hungary; School of Psychology, University of Surrey, Guildford, United 
Kingdom.
(13)Sorbonne Université, Institut du Cerveau - Paris Brain Institute - ICM, 
CNRS, Inria, Inserm, AP-HP, Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.
(14)Centre for Precision Health, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(15)Cogstate Ltd., Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(16)Centre for Medical Image Computing, Department of Medical Physics and 
Biomedical Engineering and Department of Computer Science, University College 
London, UK.
(17)Alzheimer Centre Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam UMC, 
location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Epidemiology and 
Data Science, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc, the Netherlands.
(18)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Centre for Medical 
Image Computing, Department of Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering and 
Department of Computer Science, University College London, UK; Queen Square 
Institute of Neurology, University College London, UK.

Previous studies identified atrophy-based Alzheimer's disease(AD) subtypes 
linked to distinct clinical symptoms, but their consistency across subtyping 
approaches remains unclear. This large-scale study evaluates subtype concordance 
using two data-driven approaches. In this work, we analyzed data from n=10,011 
patients across 10 AD cohorts spanning Europe, the US, and Australia, extracting 
regional volumes using Freesurfer. To characterize atrophy heterogeneity in the 
AD continuum, we developed a two-step approach, Snowphlake (Staging 
NeurOdegeneration With PHenotype informed progression timeLine of biomarKErs), 
to identify subtypes and atrophy-event sequences within each subtype. Results 
were compared with SuStaIn (Subtype and Stage Inference), which jointly 
estimates subtypes and staging, using similar training and validation. Training 
included Aβ+ participants (n=1,195) and Aβ- cognitively unimpaired controls 
(n=1,692). We validated model-staging in a held-out clinical dataset (n=6,362) 
and an independent dataset (n=762), and assessed clinical significance in Aβ+ 
subsets(n=1,796 held-out; n=159 external). Concordance analysis evaluated 
consistency between methods. In the AD dementia(AD-D) training data, both 
Snowphlake and SuStaIn identified four subtypes. In the validation datasets, 
staging with both methods correlated with Mini-Mental State Examination(MMSE) 
scores. The Snowphlake subtypes assigned in Aβ+ validation datasets were 
associated with alterations in specific cognitive domains(Cohen's 
f:[0.15-0.33]). Similarly, the SuStaIn subtypes were also associated specific 
cognitive domains(Cohen's f:[0.17-0.34]). However, we observed low concordance 
between Snowphlake and SuStaIn, with 39.7% of AD-D patients grouped in 
concordant subtypes by both methods. In conclusion, Snowphlake and SuStaIn 
identified four atrophy-based subtypes that linked to distinct symptom profiles. 
While this highlights that the neuro-anatomically defined subtypes also 
meaningfully associate with different cognitive impairments at a group level, 
the low concordance between methods suggests that future research is needed to 
better understand the biological and methodological factors contributing to the 
observed variability.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2025.121381
PMID: 40695406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest F.B. is on the 
steering committee or Data Safety Monitoring Board member for Biogen, Merck, 
ATRI/ACTC and Prothena. F.B. has been a consultant for Roche, Celltrion, Rewind 
Therapeutics, Merck, IXICO, Jansen, Combinostics and has research agreements 
with Merck, Biogen, GE Healthcare, Roche. F.B and D.C.A. are also co-founders 
and shareholders of Queen Square Analytics Ltd. N.P.O. is a consultant for Queen 
Square Analytics Ltd. Research programs of W.F. have been funded by ZonMW, NWO, 
EU-JPND, EU-IHI, Alzheimer Nederland, Hersenstichting CardioVascular Onderzoek 
Nederland, Health∼Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health, stichting 
Dioraphte, Gieskes-Strijbis fonds, stichting Equilibrio, Edwin Bouw fonds, 
Pasman stichting, stichting Alzheimer & Neuropsychiatrie Foundation, Philips, 
Biogen MA Inc, Novartis-NL, Life-MI, AVID, Roche BV, Fujifilm, Eisai, 
Combinostics. W.F. holds the Pasman chair. W.F. is recipient of ABOARD, which is 
a public-private partnership receiving funding from ZonMW (#73305095007) and 
Health∼Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health (PPP-allowance; #LSHM20106). 
W.F. is recipient of TAP-dementia (www.tap-dementia.nl), receiving funding from 
ZonMw (#10510032120003). TAP-dementia receives co-financing from Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals and Amprion. All funding is paid to her institution. W.F. 
has been an invited speaker at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD Neurology 
(Medscape), NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council. All 
funding is paid to her institution. W.F. is consultant to Oxford Health Policy 
Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA Inc, and Eisai. All funding is paid to her 
institution. W.F. participated in advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc, Roche, and 
Eli Lilly. W.F. is member of the steering committee of EVOKE/EVOKE+ 
(NovoNordisk). All funding is paid to her institution. W.F. is member of the 
steering committee of PAVE, and Think Brain Health. W.F. was associate editor of 
Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 2020/2021. W.F. is associate editor at Brain. 
C.E.T. has research contracts with Acumen, ADx Neurosciences, AC-Immune, Alamar, 
Aribio, Axon Neurosciences, Beckman-Coulter, BioConnect, Bioorchestra, 
Brainstorm Therapeutics, Celgene, Cognition Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Eisai, Eli 
Lilly, Fujirebio, Instant Nano Biosensors, Novo Nordisk, Olink, PeopleBio, 
Quanterix, Roche, Toyama, Vivoryon. She is editor in chief of Alzheimer Research 
and Therapy, and serves on editorial boards of Molecular Neurodegeneration, 
Neurology: Neuroimmunology & Neuroinflammation, Medidact Neurologie/Springer, 
and serves on committee to define guidelines for Cognitive disturbances, and one 
for acute Neurology in the Netherlands. She had consultancy/speaker contracts 
for Aribio, Biogen, Beckman-Coulter, Cognition Therapeutics, Eli Lilly, Merck, 
Novo Nordisk, Olink, Roche and Veravas.


30. Cell. 2025 Oct 2;188(20):5516-5534.e18. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2025.06.035. Epub
 2025 Jul 21.

Cell-type-directed network-correcting combination therapy for Alzheimer's 
disease.

Li Y(1), Pereda Serras C(2), Blumenfeld J(3), Xie M(4), Hao Y(5), Deng E(4), 
Chun YY(4), Holtzman J(4), An A(5), Yoon SY(4), Tang X(6), Rao A(7), Woldemariam 
S(6), Tang A(8), Zhang A(4), Simms J(4), Lo I(4), Oskotsky T(9), Keiser MJ(2), 
Huang Y(10), Sirota M(11).

Author information:
(1)Bakar Computational Health Sciences Institute, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Pharmaceutical Science and 
Pharmacogenomics Graduate Program, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, Gladstone 
Institutes, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. Electronic address: 
yaqiao.li@ucsf.edu.
(2)Bakar Computational Health Sciences Institute, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Pharmaceutical Science and 
Pharmacogenomics Graduate Program, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA 94143, USA.
(3)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, Gladstone Institutes, San 
Francisco, CA 94158, USA; Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.
(4)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, Gladstone Institutes, San 
Francisco, CA 94158, USA.
(5)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, Gladstone Institutes, San 
Francisco, CA 94158, USA; Gladstone Center for Translational Advancement, 
Gladstone Institutes, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA.
(6)Bakar Computational Health Sciences Institute, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.
(7)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, Gladstone Institutes, San 
Francisco, CA 94158, USA; Developmental and Stem Cell Biology Graduate Program, 
University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.
(8)Bakar Computational Health Sciences Institute, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Bioengineering Graduate Program, 
University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA; 
Bioengineering Graduate Program, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, 
CA 94720, USA.
(9)Bakar Computational Health Sciences Institute, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Division of Clinical Informatics and 
Digital Transformation, Department of Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.
(10)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, Gladstone Institutes, San 
Francisco, CA 94158, USA; Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Gladstone Center for 
Translational Advancement, Gladstone Institutes, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA; 
Developmental and Stem Cell Biology Graduate Program, University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Departments of Neurology and 
Pathology, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, 
USA. Electronic address: yadong.huang@gladstone.ucsf.edu.
(11)Bakar Computational Health Sciences Institute, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Pharmaceutical Science and 
Pharmacogenomics Graduate Program, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Department of Pediatrics, University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. Electronic address: 
marina.sirota@ucsf.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Dec 13:2024.12.09.627436. doi: 10.1101/2024.12.09.627436.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by heterogeneous molecular changes across diverse cell types, 
posing significant challenges for treatment development. To address this, we 
introduced a cell-type-specific, multi-target drug discovery strategy grounded 
in human data and real-world evidence. This approach integrates single-cell 
transcriptomics, drug perturbation databases, and clinical records. Using this 
framework, letrozole and irinotecan were identified as a potential combination 
therapy, each targeting AD-related gene expression changes in neurons and glial 
cells, respectively. In an AD mouse model with both Aβ and tau deposits, this 
combination therapy significantly improved memory performance and reduced 
AD-related pathologies compared with vehicle and single-drug treatments. 
Single-nucleus transcriptomic analysis confirmed that the therapy reversed 
disease-associated gene networks in a cell-type-specific manner. These results 
highlight the promise of cell-type-directed combination therapies in addressing 
multifactorial diseases like AD and lay the groundwork for precision medicine 
tailored to patient-specific transcriptomic and clinical profiles.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2025.06.035
PMCID: PMC12313259
PMID: 40695276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests Y. Huang is a 
co-founder and scientific advisory board member of GABAeron Inc. Y.L., Y. Huang, 
and M.S. are co-inventors on a patent application based on this study.


31. Neuropeptides. 2025 Sep;113:102547. doi: 10.1016/j.npep.2025.102547. Epub
2025  Jul 17.

Interplay of neuropeptide Y and autophagy in Alzheimer's disease: Therapeutic 
perspectives and mechanistic insights.

Lanjewar D(1), Katariya R(1), Kale V(1), Taksande B(1), Umekar M(1), Vinchurney 
M(2).

Author information:
(1)Smt. Kishoritai Bhoyar College of Pharmacy, Kamptee, India.
(2)Smt. Kishoritai Bhoyar College of Pharmacy, Kamptee, India. Electronic 
address: madhura.p.dixit@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, chronic, neurodegenerative disorder 
involving cognitive impairment, neuronal loss, autophagy dysregulation, and 
toxic protein aggregates build-up, including amyloid-β plaques and 
hyperphosphorylated tau tangles. Autophagy dysregulation is a central driving 
force behind AD pathogenesis, interfering with the clearance of these aggregates 
and resulting in synaptic disruption and enhanced neurodegeneration. 
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is abundantly present in the CNS. NPY has been identified 
as a promising candidate due to its neuropeptidergic activity. It plays a 
central role in regulating autophagy, anti-inflammation, and the induction of 
synaptic plasticity. NPY regulates the AMPA-mTOR pathway to restore cellular 
homeostasis and enhance neuronal survival through improved autophagic flux. It 
facilitates the clearance of aggregate proteins and dysfunctional cellular 
components, which lessen the signs of AD pathology. Moreover, NPY plays an 
important role in stabilizing the mitochondria and enhancing antioxidant action, 
in effect sustaining cognitive function. The modulatory influence of NPY on 
autophagy represents a potential novel direction in AD therapy, advanced 
delivery systems, such as nanoparticle-based carriers, offer promising targeted 
brain delivery mechanisms. However, clinical application is hindered by the need 
for a receptor-specific agonist to mitigate side effects and the lengthy trials 
necessary to assess long-term efficiency. Further research should aim to 
optimise NPY delivery and autophagy-targeted therapies to develop more effective 
treatments; such research challenges may position NPY as a breakthrough 
candidate for slowing cognitive and functional impairment in AD.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.npep.2025.102547
PMID: 40695083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Sep;190:118362. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118362. 
Epub 2025 Jul 21.

Eriocitrin and its derivatives against Alzheimer's disease: Cumulative accounts 
of in vitro and in vivo studies.

Kritika(1), Sanjay(2), Lee HJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Nutrition, College of BioNano Technology, Gachon 
University, Seongnam-si, South Korea. Electronic address: 
sharmazkritika91@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, College of BioNano Technology, Gachon 
University, Seongnam-si, South Korea; Institute for Aging and Clinical Nutrition 
Research, Gachon University, Seongnam-si, South Korea. Electronic address: 
sanjay.monga4@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Food and Nutrition, College of BioNano Technology, Gachon 
University, Seongnam-si, South Korea; Institute for Aging and Clinical Nutrition 
Research, Gachon University, Seongnam-si, South Korea; Department of Health 
Sciences and Technology, Gachon Advanced Institute for Health Science and 
Technology (GAIHST), Gachon University, Incheon 21999, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: skysea@gachon.ac.kr.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease (ND), 
and its adversities are not limited to the brain. Due to complex and 
interconnected pathologies with other NDs, an effective treatment for 
multidimensional AD-related adversities has yet to be reported. Several 
phytoconstituents have been reported and are currently being studied for their 
bioactive potential in AD. Eriocitrin, a dihydroflavonoid compound present in 
citrus fruits, such as lemons, limes, lemon peels, grapefruit, and vegetables, 
and processed items, such as beverages and wine, along with its derivatives 
hesperetin, hesperidin, eriodictyol, and homoeriodictyol, has been reported to 
possess various neuroprotective bioactivities, including anti-inflammatory, 
anti-oxidative, anti-amyloidogenic, anti-tau phosphorylation, and anti-apoptotic 
properties, in several in vitro and in vivo models. However, a comprehensive 
review summarizing and correlating the multidimensional bioactive potentials of 
eriocitrin and its derivatives against AD has yet to be compiled. This review 
extensively discusses the in-depth role of eriocitrin and its derivatives in 
ameliorating different AD-related signaling pathways both in vitro and in vivo, 
and summarizes the incorporation of eriocitrin like different plant-based 
flavonoids in long-term dietary practice to combat AD and other similar NDs. 
Additionally, this review suggests examining various nano-formulations of 
eriocitrin and its derivatives for their anti-AD effects in comparison to the 
parent compound. Furthermore, in-depth in vitro and in vivo studies, along with 
different clinical trials, should be conducted to fully elucidate the true 
potential of eriocitrin and its derivatives in AD pathology.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118362
PMID: 40695043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that may have influenced the work reported in this study.


33. Menopause. 2025 Jul 22;32(9):818-28. doi: 10.1097/GME.0000000000002562.
Online  ahead of print.

Long-term effects of 4 years of menopausal hormone therapy on white matter 
integrity.

Faubion LL(1), Mak E(1), Kara F(1), Tosakulwong N(2), Lesnick TG(2), Fought 
AJ(2), Reid RI(1), Schwarz CG(1), Kendall-Thomas J(1), Kapoor E(3), Fields 
JA(4), Bailey KR(1), James TT(5), Lobo RA(6), Manson JE(7), Pal L(8), Hammers 
DB(9), Brinton EA(9), Malek-Ahmadi M(10), Cedars M(11), Naftolin FN(12), Santoro 
N(13), Miller VM(14), Harman SM(15), Dowling NM(2), Gleason CE(5), Kantarci 
K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology.
(2)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences.
(3)Department of General Internal Medicine.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(5)University of Wisconsin-Madison and Madison VA GRECC and Wisconsin's 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Madison, WI.
(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Columbia University, New York City, 
NY.
(7)Division of Preventive Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA.
(8)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yale University, New Haven, CT.
(9)Utah Lipid Center, Salt Lake City, UT.
(10)Banner Alzheimer Institute, Phoenix, AZ.
(11)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA.
(12)e-Bio Corp, New York, NY.
(13)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Colorado, Denver, CO.
(14)Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(15)Department of Medicine, Phoenix VA Health Care System, Phoenix, AZ.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the long-term effects of 4 years of menopausal hormone 
therapy (mHT) on the brain's white matter architecture in women who initiated 
mHT within 3 years of menopause onset.
METHODS: The Kronos Early Estrogen Prevention Study (KEEPS) was a multicenter, 
double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled 4-year mHT trial with treatment 
arms of oral conjugated equine estrogens (oCEE), transdermal 17β-estradiol 
(tE2), and placebo in recently postmenopausal women. KEEPS Continuation was an 
observational follow-up of KEEPS participants. White matter integrity was 
evaluated in KEEPS Continuation participants 10 years after KEEPS completion 
using white matter hyperintensity volume, diffusion magnetic resonance imaging 
(dMRI) techniques, and cerebral infarcts. Linear regression models were fitted 
for each brain region to evaluate if there were differences in white matter 
between KEEPS treatment arms.
RESULTS: There was no evidence to suggest the long-term effects of 4 years of 
mHT on brain white matter in KEEPS Continuation participants [n=266, mean age 67 
(58-73)]. No differences in dMRI metrics were found in each of the treatment 
arms (oCEE n=70; tE2 n=79) when compared to placebo (n=94), following a false 
discovery rate adjustment for multiple comparisons. There were no statistically 
significant differences in white matter hyperintensity volume or infarct 
occurrence when comparing each of the treatment arms to placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence of the long-term effect of 4-year mHT on white 
matter integrity when compared to placebo, consistent with emerging evidence of 
the safety of short-term use of mHT in recently postmenopausal women.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of The Menopause Society.

DOI: 10.1097/GME.0000000000002562
PMCID: PMC12382724
PMID: 40694740

Conflict of interest statement: Financial disclosure/conflicts of interest: K.K. 
served on the data safety monitoring board for Pfizer Inc. and Takeda Global 
Research & Development Center, Inc. She received research support from Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals and Eli Lilly. She consults for Biogen. N.S. is a member of 
the Scientific Advisory Boards for Astellas, Que Oncology, Amazon (Ember), and 
Menogenix, Inc. She is a consultant for Ansh Labs, and has received grant 
support (to her institution) from Menogenix, Inc. She has been paid by Fertility 
IQ for developing a series of videos on menopause and has stock options (no 
payments) from Menogenix, Inc. L.P. is a member of the advisory board for Flo 
Health and has a financial relationship with WinFertility. E.K. is funded in 
part by the National Institute on Aging (NIA grant U54 AG044170). E.K. has no 
conflicts of interest directly related to the subject of this manuscript. 
However, over the past 36 months, she has had the following conflicts of 
interest: she has been a consultant for Astellas and Mithra Pharmaceuticals, 
Scynexis, and Womaness. She receives grant support from Mithra Pharmaceuticals. 
She has received payment for the development of educational content from Med 
Learning Group and the Academy of Continued Healthcare Learning. She has 
received honoraria for CME activity from PriMed and OBG Management. A.J.F. 
received funding from Northwestern University for participating in a DSMB ($500 
in the last year). C.G.S. received past funding from Karolinska Institute and 
Drum Tower Hospital, Nanjing. J.A.F. receives ongoing institutional funding from 
the National Institute of Health and Mangurian Foundation and receives ongoing 
personal funding from the University of Pennsylvania and Medtronic Inc. T.T.J. 
was one of 2 principal investigators on a grant from the Alzheimer’s Clinical 
Trial Consortium (ACTC). D.B.H. received institutional funding from the NIH and 
Alzheimer’s Association funding. M.M.-A. received past funding from the 
Biomedical Research Alliance of New York. The other authors have nothing to 
disclose.


34. J Agric Food Chem. 2025 Aug 6;73(31):19631-19641. doi:
10.1021/acs.jafc.4c11912.  Epub 2025 Jul 22.

The Key Flavor Substance in Zanthoxylum Preventing Alzheimer's Disease through 
Insulin Signaling.

Wang H(1), Wu D(1), Jiang Y(1), Jia G(2), Xiao Q(3), Liang H(1), Ma N(1), Hu 
B(1), Zhao R(1), Lv H(1), Ma Y(1), Wei DQ(2), Zheng L(1), Xiao Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science & Technology, School of Agriculture and Biology, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China.
(2)Department of Bioinformatics and Biological Statistics, School of Life 
Sciences and Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, 
China.
(3)Department of Food Science, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, New 
Brunswick, New Jersey 08901, United States.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), affecting over 50 million people globally, is a 
leading cause of dementia with severe socioeconomic impacts. A key pathological 
feature is β-amyloid (Aβ) aggregation, driving neurodegeneration. This study 
investigates WGX-50, a bioactive amide from Zanthoxylum bungeanum, for its 
anti-AD potential using Caenorhabditis elegans models (CL2355/GMC101). WGX-50 
reduced Aβ deposition in neuronal and muscle tissues while improving mobility, 
reproductive fitness, and cognitive functions. Mechanistically, transcriptomics 
revealed WGX-50's modulation of immune-related genes, validated by RNAi and 
RT-qPCR, suggesting the involvement of the insulin signaling (IIS) pathway in Aβ 
suppression. Our findings highlight WGX-50's dual therapeutic and prophylactic 
effects against Aβ toxicity, highlighting it as a promising neuroprotective 
agent. The study not only elucidates WGX-50's mode of action but also advances 
Z. bungeanum-derived flavor compounds as functional food candidates for 
neurodegenerative disease prevention, offering novel strategies for AD 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.4c11912
PMID: 40694678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Sep;33(9):5011-5021. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01846-3.  Epub 2025 Jul 22.

Therapeutic potential of luteolin in neurodegenerative disorders: targeting 
Nrf2, NFĸB, MAPK, and JAK-STAT pathways to combat neuroinflammation and 
apoptosis.

Mahto K(1), Kuwar OK(2), Maloo A(3), Kalia N(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Mewar University, Gangarar, Chittorgarh, 
Rajasthan, 312901, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Mewar University, Gangrar, Chittorgarh, Rajasthan, 
312901, India. omkar.official.955@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, IPS Academy, Knowledge 
Village, A.B. Road, Indore, Madhya Pradesh, 452012, India.
(4)Government College of Pharmacy, Rohru, India.

Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's 
disease, Multiple sclerosis and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, are characterized 
by progressive neuronal loss, oxidative stress, chronic neuroinflammation, 
mitochondrial dysfunction, and apoptosis. The Nrf2/ARE, IĸB/NFĸB, MAPK/AP-1, and 
JAK-STAT signaling pathways play a pivotal role in these pathological processes, 
making them promising therapeutic targets. Luteolin, a naturally occurring 
flavonoid, has demonstrated potent antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and 
neuroprotective properties by modulating these interconnected pathways. 
Activation of Nrf2/ARE signaling by luteolin enhances cellular antioxidant 
defences, while its inhibition of NFĸB, MAPK/AP-1, and JAK-STAT pathways 
suppresses neuroinflammation and apoptotic signalling, thereby mitigating 
neuronal damage. Emerging evidences suggest that luteolin effectively reduces 
neurotoxic effects by regulating inflammatory cytokine production, stabilizing 
mitochondrial function, and maintaining redox homeostasis. Its ability to 
interfere with crosstalk between these signaling pathways highlights its 
potential as a multi-targeted neuroprotective agent. Preclinical studies have 
provided strong evidence supporting luteolin's role in mitigating 
neurodegeneration, suggesting its applicability in neurodegenerative disease 
management. These findings underscore the therapeutic potential of luteolin in 
neurodegenerative diseases by targeting multiple pathological mechanisms. 
However, further investigations are needed to fully elucidate its molecular 
mechanisms and optimize its therapeutic benefits.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01846-3
PMID: 40694206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations:. Conflicts of interest: The 
authors declared that they don’t have any financial or personal conflicts about 
this work. Ethical approval: Not required.


36. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Aug;33(8):4553-4575. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01859-y.  Epub 2025 Jul 22.

Therapeutic potential of melatonin-induced mitophagy in the pathogenesis of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Goleij P(1)(2), Khazeei Tabari MA(3)(4), Poudineh M(5), Sanaye PM(6), Khan 
H(7)(8), Kumar AP(9)(10), Larsen DS(11), Daglia M(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)USERN Office, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, 
6715847141, Iran. medgenetic.1991@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Biology, Sana Institute of Higher 
Education, Sari, 4816118761, Iran. medgenetic.1991@gmail.com.
(3)Student Research Committee, School of Medicine, Mazandaran University of 
Medical Sciences, Mazandaran, 4815733971, Iran.
(4)USERN Office, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(5)Student Research Committee, School of Medicine, Zanjan University of Medical 
Sciences, Zanjan, 4513956184, Iran.
(6)School of Pharmacy, Zanjan University of Medical Sciences, Zanjan, 
4513956184, Iran.
(7)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Chemical and Life Sciences, Abdul Wali 
Khan University Mardan, Mardan, 23200, Pakistan.
(8)Department of Pharmacy, Korea University, Sejong, 20019, South Korea.
(9)Department of Pharmacology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore, 117600, Singapore.
(10)NUS Center for Cancer Research, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore, 119077, Singapore.
(11)School of Chemical Sciences, The University of Auckland, 23 Symonds Street, 
Auckland, 1010, New Zealand.
(12)Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples "Federico II", Via D. Montesano 
49, 80131, Naples, Italy. maria.daglia@unina.it.
(13)International Research Center for Food Nutrition and Safety, Jiangsu 
University, Zhenjiang, 212013, China. maria.daglia@unina.it.

Neurons rely heavily on functional mitochondria for energy production. 
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a key player in age-related neurodegenerative 
diseases like Alzheimer's disease (AD). In AD, damaged mitochondria accumulate 
early, worsening the disease. This dysfunction disrupts cellular balance in 
neurons, leading to energy deficiencies, calcium imbalances, and oxidative 
stress. These issues further aggravate the harmful effects of amyloid beta (Aβ) 
plaques and tau tangles, ultimately leading to synaptic dysfunction, memory 
loss, and cognitive decline. While a complex link exists between mitochondrial 
dysfunction and AD hallmarks like Aβ plaques and tau tangles, the exact 
cause-and-effect relationship remains unclear. Additionally, recent evidence 
suggests impaired mechanisms for mitophagy in AD. Mitophagy is crucial for 
neuronal health, and studies have found changes to proteins involved in this 
process, mitochondrial dynamics, and mitochondrial production in AD. Impaired 
mitophagy might also be linked to problems with how cells fuse waste disposal 
compartments (autophagosomes) with lysosomes, and issues with maintaining proper 
acidity within lysosomes. Interestingly, melatonin, a hormone known for 
regulating sleep, has recently emerged as a potential neuroprotective agent. 
Studies using a mouse model of AD showed that melatonin treatment improved 
cognitive function by enhancing mitophagy. These findings suggest that 
melatonin's ability to improve mitophagy may be a promising avenue for future AD 
therapies. Therefore, in this review, we discuss the therapeutic effect of 
melatonin on mitochondrial dysfunction, especially mitophagy, in AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01859-y
PMID: 40694204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


37. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 22;20(1):74. doi:
10.1007/s11481-025-10230-5.

Macroalgae Polysaccharides Enhance Brain Health by Mitigating 
Scopolamine-induced Oxidative Stress and Inflammation Via Nrf-2/TLR4/NF-kB 
Pathways.

Shah Z(1)(2), Iqbal A(3), Badshah SL(4), Mir MA(5), Sohni S(6), Ullah H(7)(8), 
Shah SA(9)(10), Bashir N(5), Ayaz M(11), Daglia M(12)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Edwardes College, Peshawar, 25000, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, 
Pakistan.
(2)Department of Botany, Islamia College Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Biology, Edwardes College, Peshawar, 25000, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, 
Pakistan. arshad.iqbal@icp.edu.pk.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Islamia College Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, 
Pakistan.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, King Khalid University, Abha, 61421, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Institute of Chemical Sciences, University of Peshawar, Peshawar, 25120, 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
(7)School of Pharmacy, University of Management and Technology, C-II Johar Town, 
Lahore, 54000, Pakistan.
(8)Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples Federico II, via Domenico 
Montesano 49, Naples, 80131, Italy.
(9)Department of Biology, The University of Haripur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, 
Pakistan.
(10)Neuro Molecular Medicine Research Center, Ring Road Peshawar, Peshawar, 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
(11)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of 
Malakand, Chakdara, Dir (L), 18800, KP, Pakistan. ayazuop@gmail.com.
(12)International Research Center for Food Nutrition and Safety, Jiangsu 
University, Zhenjiang, 212013, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder commonly 
associated with memory loss and difficulties in performing daily activities, 
particularly in the aging brain.
PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effects 
of macroalgae-derived polysaccharides from seaweed against scopolamine-induced 
amnesia, oxidative stress, and amyloid plaque (Aβ) production in rodents, 
following standard experimental protocols.
METHODS: Three novel polysaccharides were extracted from Chara vulgaris, 
Cladophora glomerata, and Spirogyra crassa, namely: methylated pectin-type 
polysaccharides (PS1), methylated pectin-type polysaccharides (homo galacturonan 
and rhamno galacturonan, PS2), Ulvan-type polysaccharide, and xyloglucan 
polysaccharides (PS3). These polysaccharides were characterized using a variety 
of analytical techniques, including SEM, FTIR, XRD, 1H-NMR, and 13C-NMR. The 
polysaccharides were administered at a dose of 30 mg/kg to male albino mice 
exposed to scopolamine (1 mg/kg) for three weeks. To assess their 
neuroprotective effects, Morris Water Maze (MWM) and Y-maze tests, antioxidant 
enzyme assays (Catalase, GSH, LPO), and western blotting were performed.
RESULTS: The results showed that all three polysaccharides significantly 
(p ≤ 0.001) mitigated redox imbalance and reduced (p ≤ 0.001) microglial 
activation, thereby decreasing scopolamine-induced neuroinflammation and amyloid 
beta (Aβ) accumulation. Additionally, these polysaccharides improved neuronal 
synapses and cognitive function by modulating the NRf-2/TLR4/NF-kB signaling 
pathway.
DATA ANALYSIS: The data analysis and graph generation were performed using 
GraphPad Prism software, version 5.0, with a significance level set at a p-value 
of < 0.05.
CONCLUSION: The findings highlighted the potential of these three novel natural 
polysaccharides as promising candidates for the treatment of scopolamine-induced 
oxidative stress-mediated neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's 
disease.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-025-10230-5
PMID: 40694170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Institutional Review Board Statement: For the 
in-vivo studies, male albino mice of 7–8 weeks age were obtained from the 
National Institute of Health (NIH) in Islamabad, Pakistan. Animals were divided 
into 5 groups (n = 5) and experimental studies were performed at the 
Neuro-Molecular Medicines Research Center (NMMRC), Peshawar, Pakistan. All the 
procedures were performed on the experimental animals after approval from the 
animal ethics committee of the NMMRC (NMMRC-Research Ethic Committee), Peshawar 
reference Ref. No. 13/2020 and are according to the animal scientific procedure 
ACT, 1986 (UK) following ARRIVE guidelines. The study is reported in accordance 
with ARRIVE guidelines. Informed Consent: Statement: Not applicable. Conflict of 
interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


38. Expert Opin Ther Pat. 2025 Sep;35(9):933-945. doi: 
10.1080/13543776.2025.2536003. Epub 2025 Jul 23.

Glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK-3β) inhibitors - a patent update (2019-2024).

Joshi SV(1), Soujanya D(1), Sai Supriya M(1), Yaddanapudi VM(1), Nanduri S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Sciences, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER), Hyderabad, India.

INTRODUCTION: Glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β) is a proline-directed 
serine/threonine kinase identified over 40 years ago. It is the key enzyme 
involved in glycogen biosynthesis and is expressed in all human tissues. 
Overexpression of GSK-3β is linked to several diseases, including diabetes 
mellitus, neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, and cancer. 
Owing to its critical role in the pathophysiology of these diseases, GSK-3β has 
emerged as a validated and potential target for therapeutic intervention. In 
recent years, significant progress has been made in developing novel GSK-3 
inhibitors. Some of these new inhibitors have shown promising results in 
treating some of these diseases.
AREAS COVERED: This review covers patent literature on various GSK-3β inhibitors 
published between 2019 and 2024. This review also discusses the recent clinical 
developmental status of some of the promising GSK-3 inhibitors.
EXPERT OPINION: Although many heterocyclic compounds from natural as well as 
synthetic origin have shown promising inhibitory effects against GSK-3β, most of 
them have not yet progressed to the development stage. However, a critical 
review of their structures and biological profiles reveals significant potential 
for further development.

DOI: 10.1080/13543776.2025.2536003
PMID: 40693819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2025 Jul 30;17(30):43830-43838. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.5c08936. Epub 2025 Jul 22.

Ionic Liquid-Induced Aggregation-Induced Emission of Gold Nanoclusters for 
Copper Detection and Amyloid-β Aggregation Modulation.

Song D(1), Wang Q(1), Xu W(1), Qiao Y(1), Feng L(1), Ling P(1).

Author information:
(1)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Biomedical Materials and Chemical 
Measurement, College of Chemistry and Materials Science, Anhui Normal 
University, Wuhu 241002, China.

The precise detection of copper ions (Cu2+), along with the regulation of 
amyloid-β (Aβ) aggregation and fibril disassembly, is critical in biomedical 
diagnostics and neurodegenerative disease therapeutics. In this study, we 
present a multifunctional platform utilizing ionic liquid-induced 
aggregation-induced emission of gold nanoclusters (IL/AuNCs) for Cu2+ detection 
and Aβ aggregation modulation. IL/AuNCs exhibited high selectivity and 
sensitivity toward Cu2+, with a detection limit of 0.079 μM. Additionally, 
IL/AuNCs modulated the Fenton-like activity of free Cu2+ and the Aβ42-Cu2+ 
complex, effectively reducing reactive oxygen species. Furthermore, IL/AuNCs 
also disrupted preformed Aβ aggregates into soluble species and inhibited their 
formation under physiological conditions, mitigating associated neurotoxicity. 
Cell-based experiments revealed that IL/AuNCs could reduce Aβ aggregate-induced 
cytotoxicity, implying their therapeutic potential for Alzheimer's disease. This 
work not only advances the development of multifunctional nanoplatforms for 
metal ion sensing but also provides a promising theranostic approach for 
addressing metal-associated amyloid pathologies.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.5c08936
PMID: 40693658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. MAbs. 2025 Dec;17(1):2537118. doi: 10.1080/19420862.2025.2537118. Epub 2025
Jul  22.

Analytical development and application of a targeted liquid 
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry assay for chimeric aducanumab.

Doud EH(1), Hansen K(1), Haynes KA(2), Eldridge K(1), Arrivalagan J(1), Charbe 
N(1), Da Silva L(1), Quinney SK(1), Mosley AL(1), Rizzo SJS(2), Territo PR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(2)School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

A sensitive and specific liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry assay 
was developed for the quantification of chimeric aducanumab (chAdu), a 
therapeutic antibody targeting pathological amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's 
disease, in murine biological matrices. This method addresses the challenges of 
quantifying biotherapeutics in multiple tissue types within preclinical animal 
models with complex genetic backgrounds, where traditional enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) methods may suffer from interference and limited 
sensitivity. The assay uses parallel reaction monitoring on a Lumos Tribrid 
Orbitrap mass spectrometer, coupled with an Evosep LC system, and AssayMap 
Bravo-based automated sample processing. Key features include protein A 
enrichment for improved sensitivity, optimized peptide selection based on 
sequence uniqueness and ionization response, and incorporation of stable 
isotope-labeled peptides for accurate quantification. Assay performance was 
evaluated for selectivity, repeatability, and stability. The fit-for-purpose 
assay was successfully applied to quantify chAdu in both mouse cortex and plasma 
samples obtained from a pilot pharmacokinetic study of a mouse model of amyloid 
plaque deposition. This targeted mass spectrometry workflow offers a robust and 
reproducible alternative to ELISA for preclinical biotherapeutic analysis, 
particularly when dealing with complex biological samples.

DOI: 10.1080/19420862.2025.2537118
PMCID: PMC12296118
PMID: 40693538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


41. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70496. doi: 10.1002/alz.70496.

24-hour activity cycle behaviors and gray matter volume in mild cognitive 
impairment.

Balbim GM(1)(2)(3), Boa Sorte Silva NC(4), Falck RS(1)(2)(3), Kramer AF(5)(6), 
Voss MW(7)(8), Liu-Ambrose T(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, The University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(2)Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health, The University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(3)Centre for Aging SMART at Vancouver Coastal Health, Vancouver Coastal Health 
Research Institute, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Department of Health, Kinesiology, and Applied Physiology, Faculty of Arts 
and Science, Concordia University, Montreal, Québec, Canada.
(5)Department of Psychology, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(6)Beckman Institute, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, 
Illinois, USA.
(7)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Iowa, Iowa 
City, Iowa, USA.
(8)Iowa Neuroscience Institute, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The 24-hour activity cycle (24-HAC) includes physical activity 
(PA), sedentary behavior (SB), and sleep. The 24-HAC composition and brain 
health relationship in adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) remains 
underexplored. We examined associations between 24-HAC composition and gray 
matter (GM) volume.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study in 110 adults with MCI. Actigraphy assessed 
24-HAC behaviors. FreeSurfer quantified GM. Compositional linear regressions and 
isotemporal substitution determined 24-HAC composition and GM volume 
associations.
RESULTS: Higher moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) relative to 
remaining behaviors was associated with greater right inferior temporal gyrus 
volume (ß = 0.30, false-discovery rate (FDR)-corrected-p = 0.030). Higher SB 
relative to remaining behaviors was associated with lower volume in the same 
region (ß = -0.45, FDR-corrected-p = 0.015). Reallocating 30 min from SB to MVPA 
predicted 2.1% greater (ß = 0.06, p < 0.001) and from MVPA to SB predicted 2.8% 
lower volume (ß = -0.08, p < 0.001).
DISCUSSION: Increasing MVPA at the expense of SB may protect GM in regions prone 
to Alzheimer's disease-related atrophy.
TRIAL REGISTRATIONS: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02926157, NCT02737878, and 
NCT02669394.
HIGHLIGHTS: The 24-hour behaviors are associated to inferior temporal volume in 
older adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). More moderate-to-vigorous 
physical activity (MVPA) is linked with greater inferior temporal volume in 
older adults with MCI. Allocation from sedentary time to MVPA predicts greater 
inferior temporal volume.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70496
PMCID: PMC12281022
PMID: 40693459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


42. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jul 7;17:1561831. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1561831.
 eCollection 2025.

Quantitative analysis of targeted lipidomics in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice 
employing the UHPLC-MS/MS method.

Xiao S(#)(1), Wei X(#)(2), Han B(3), Shi X(1), Wei C(1), Liang R(1), Sun J(1), 
Zhang Z(1), Han Z(#)(1), Shen L(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The First Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(2)Department of Computer Science, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, 
United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is marked by the pathological features of 
amyloid-β plaque accumulation, as well as intracellular neurofibrillary tangles 
formation in the patients' brain. Aberrant lipid metabolism is increasingly 
recognized as one of the important contributors to AD.
PURPOSE: The main goal of this research was to conduct quantitative detection of 
targeted lipidomics in hippocampal tissue of APPSwe/PS1dE9 mice in order to 
identify lipid metabolic biomarkers of early-onset AD mice.
METHODS: Our approach departs from conventional lipid detection methods, 
employing a highly accurate quantificational Ultra High Performance Liquid 
Chromatography Tandem Mass Spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) technique to analyze 
targeted lipid biomarkers. The innovative method was utilized to detect targeted 
lipids in the hippocampus of AD and wild-type mice. Statistical method was 
performed by Student's t-test and multivariate analysis. Differential 
metabolites were identified through fulfilling the standard of Variable 
Importance in Projection surpassing one and the significance probability lower 
than 0.05 thresholds.
RESULTS: Both groups utilized identical methodologies and adhered strictly to 
standardized treatment protocols. Sphingolipids (SPs), Glycerophospholipids 
(GPs), Glycolipids, Glycerides (GLs), Sterol Lipids (STs), and Free Fatty Acid 
(FA) were identified as prominent lipids exhibiting alterations in the 
hippocampus of AD models. Regarding glycolipid and glycerolipid composition, 
monogalactosyldiacylglycerols (MGDGs) and Triacylglycerols (TGs) constituted a 
significant proportion (p < 0.05, VIP > 1). Among glycerophospholipids, 
phosphatidylethanolamines (PEs) and phosphatidylcholines (PCs) emerged as 
significant constituents (p < 0.05, VIP > 1). Furthermore, hexosylceramides 
(HexCers) and ceramides (Cers) in the AD model's hippocampus, the prominent 
sphingolipids in the hippocampus of AD mice, existed as the two primary changed 
lipid metabolites. The levels of some TGs in GLs and CEs in STs showed a 
significant elevation (p < 0.05, VIP > 1). In contrast, most kinds of MGDGs, 
HexCers, Cers, PEs and FA (18:2) demonstrated a notable decrease in the 
hippocampus of AD group (p < 0.05, VIP > 1).
CONCLUSION: The present research represents the important quantitative 
identification of distinct lipid biomarker profiles within the hippocampal 
portion of 7.5-month-aged AD mice. It encompasses glycolipid, GLs, GPs, SPs, 
STs, and FAs using a targeted HPLC-MS method for quantification. These findings 
suggest potential diagnostic lipid biomarkers in hippocampus of early-onset AD 
mice related to cellular membrane integrity, atherosclerosis, oxidative stress 
damage, and inflammation.

Copyright © 2025 Xiao, Wei, Han, Shi, Wei, Liang, Sun, Zhang, Han and Shen.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1561831
PMCID: PMC12277340
PMID: 40693114

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


43. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(2):477-493. doi: 10.1177/13872877251361044.
Epub  2025 Sep 1.

Efficacy and APOE ε4-stratified risk of donanemab in Alzheimer's disease: A 
systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials.

Pereira da Silva AM(1), Falcão L(2), Virgilio F(3), Rodrigues Menezes I(4), 
Leite M(5), Farias E(6), Nascimento M(1), Lee Han M(7), Mota Telles JP(8), de 
Souza Franco E(1), de Sousa Maia MB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Federal University of Pernambuco, 
Recife, Brazil.
(2)Department of Medicine, Bahiana School of Medicine and Public Health, 
Salvador, Brazil.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Barão de Mauá University Center, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.
(4)Department of Medicine, State University of Rio Grande do Norte, Rio Grande 
do Norte, Brazil.
(5)Department of Medicine, Santa Marcelina College, São Paulo, Brazil.
(6)Department of Medicine, Federal University of Roraima, Boa Vista, Roraima, 
Brazil.
(7)Department of Medicine, Medical School of the University of São Paulo, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(8)Department of Neurology, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

BackgroundDonanemab, a monoclonal antibody targeting amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques, has 
shown the ability to reduce cerebral amyloid burden in early Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). However, uncertainties remain regarding its clinical relevance, 
particularly in relation to tau pathology, APOE ε4 genotype, and methodological 
limitations in existing trials.ObjectiveTo conduct a systematic review and 
exploratory meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of 
donanemab in patients with mild to moderate AD.MethodsWe conducted a systematic 
review and exploratory meta-analysis following PRISMA guidelines. Randomized 
controlled trials comparing donanemab to placebo in individuals aged ≥65 years 
with biomarker-confirmed mild to moderate AD were included. Outcomes included 
cognitive measures (ADAS-Cog13, MMSE, CDR-SB, iADRS, ADCS-iADL) and adverse 
events (ARIA-E, ARIA-H, infusion reactions, discontinuations). Random-effects 
models were used to estimate pooled mean difference (MD) or risk ratio (RR) with 
95% confidence intervals. Subgroup analyses were performed by baseline tau 
burden and APOE ε4 genotype.ResultsThree trials (n = 2054) were included. 
Donanemab modestly reduced cognitive decline compared to placebo: ADAS-Cog13 
(MD, -1.86), CDR-SB (MD, -0.36), MMSE (MD, 0.64), and iADRS (MD, 3.19), with 
similar effects across tau subgroups. The risk of ARIA-E was markedly increased 
(RR, 12.39), especially among APOE ε4 homozygotes. Infusion reactions (RR, 
11.90) and discontinuations (RR, 3.22) were also more 
frequent.ConclusionsDonanemab demonstrated modest cognitive benefits, the 
clinical significance of which remains uncertain. Independent, longer-term 
trials with rigorous methodology and active comparators are warranted to more 
clearly define its therapeutic value in the treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251361044
PMID: 40692324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


44. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):192-206. doi: 10.1177/13872877251360221.
Epub  2025 Jul 21.

The global, regional, and national burden and attributable risk factors of 
Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, 1990-2021: A systematic analysis for 
the Global Burden of Disease Study.

Yin M(1)(2), Ding S(1), Zhao M(3), Liu J(4), Su W(1), Fu M(5), Wu M(1), Ma C(1), 
Sun X(6), Kong Y(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Shandong Second Medical University, Weifang, China.
(2)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of Donggang District of Rizhao 
City, Rizhao, China.
(3)Department of Encephalopathy, Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital 
Affiliated to Shandong Second Medical University, Weifang, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Affiliated Hospital of Shandong Second Medical 
University, Weifang, China.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, People's Hospital Affiliated to Shandong Second 
Medical University, Weifang, China.
(6)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The Affiliated Hospital of 
Shandong Second Medical University, Weifang, China.
(7)Department of Oncology, The Affiliated Hospital of Shandong Second Medical 
University, Weifang, China.

BackgroundDementia is a syndrome characterized by a decline in cognitive 
function, with Alzheimer's disease (AD) being the most common type. Updated 
global statistics on the burden of AD and other dementias provide critical 
insights for guiding prevention and treatment strategies.ObjectiveTo estimate 
the global, regional, and national burden and attributable risk factors of AD 
and other dementias from 1990 to 2021.MethodsThis cross-sectional study utilized 
the 2021 Global Burden of Disease (GBD) dataset from 204 countries and 
territories. The analysis focused on individuals aged 40 years and older with AD 
and other dementias and included data on incidence, all-cause and cause-specific 
mortality, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), and estimated annual 
percentage changes (EAPCs). These trends were stratified by region, country, 
age, sex, and Socio-Demographic Index (SDI).ResultsFrom 1990 to 2021, global 
DALYs attributable to AD and other dementias rose from 3.83 million to 9.84 
million. Age-standardized rates (ASRs) of incidence and DALYs increased for both 
sexes, with a more pronounced rise in males. ASRs for incidence, prevalence, and 
DALYs were positively correlated with SDI. Smoking was identified as the primary 
risk factor for dementia burden among males, whereas obesity was the leading 
risk factor for females.ConclusionsThe global burden of AD and other dementias 
has significantly increased from 1990 to 2021, especially in high-SDI regions. 
While females have a higher overall risk, the burden has grown more rapidly in 
males. These findings highlight the need for targeted interventions to address 
aging populations and reduce dementia risk factors.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251360221
PMID: 40692317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


45. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70503. doi: 10.1002/alz.70503.

Bisphosphonates and the risk of dementia in patients with osteoporosis or 
fragility fracture: A population-based study in Hong Kong.

Sing CW(1)(2), Chan KH(3), Chiu PKC(3), Lau WCY(1)(2)(4), Zhang X(1), Tan 
KCB(3), Cheung CL(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacy, LKS Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, Hong Kong.
(2)Laboratory of Data Discovery for Health Limited (D(2)4H), Hong Kong SAR, Hong 
Kong.
(3)Department of Medicine, School of Clinical Medicine, University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong SAR, Hong Kong.
(4)Research Department of Practice and Policy, UCL School of Pharmacy, London, 
UK.
(5)Hebrew SeniorLife, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Emerging evidence suggests neuroprotective effects of 
bisphosphonates. We aim to investigate whether nitrogen-containing 
bisphosphonates (NBPs) could reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease and related 
dementia (ADRD).
METHODS: We identified patients aged 60+ with osteoporosis or fragility fracture 
in 2005-2020 from a healthcare database in Hong Kong. Patients receiving NBPs 
were 1:1 matched with untreated patients and those receiving other 
anti-osteoporosis medications ("non-NBPs") by time-dependent propensity score. 
Follow-up was conducted until December 31, 2021. Cause-specific hazard ratios 
(HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated using the Cox 
proportional hazard model.
RESULTS: Among 121,492 patients (NBP = 15,654, non-NBP = 6331), we matched 
10,833 pairs for NBPs-vs-untreated and 3080 pairs for NBPs-vs-non-NBPs. NBP use 
was associated with a lower risk of ADRD compared to untreated (HR = 0.84, 95% 
CI = 0.78-0.90) and non-NBP (HR = 0.76, 95% CI = 0.66-0.89).
DISCUSSION: NBP use was associated with a lower risk of dementia, suggesting 
further studies are warranted on its potential to improve cognitive function.
HIGHLIGHTS: Nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (NBPs) are associated with a 
reduced risk of Alzheimer's disease and related dementia. NBPs resulted in an 
absolute risk reduction of 0.007, 0.018, and 0.021 at 1, 3, and 5 years, 
respectively. The number needed to treat (NNT) with NBPs at 1, 3, and 5 years 
were 133, 56, and 48. There is potential for repurposing NBPs as a therapeutic 
agent for Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70503
PMCID: PMC12279470
PMID: 40691770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


46. Nat Rev Neurol. 2025 Sep;21(9):490-498. doi: 10.1038/s41582-025-01123-5. Epub
 2025 Jul 21.

Amyloid-lowering immunotherapies for Alzheimer disease: current status and 
future directions.

Rafii MS(1), Aisen PS(2).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine, 
University of Southern California, San Diego, CA, USA. mrafii@usc.edu.
(2)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine, 
University of Southern California, San Diego, CA, USA.

The treatment of Alzheimer disease (AD) has crossed a pivotal threshold, marked 
by the landmark approvals of the first-ever disease-modifying therapies. These 
immunotherapies, specifically monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) that target various 
amyloid-β (Aβ) species including proto-fibrillar and fibrillar forms, 
substantially lower levels of Aβ in the brain. The therapies have collectively 
demonstrated the ability to slow cognitive and clinical decline in large 
placebo-controlled trials, ushering a new era in the management of AD. Here, we 
review recent progress made in bringing amyloid-lowering mAb therapies to the 
clinic and explore future directions in this rapidly evolving field. We also 
delve into the current understanding of AD as a biological continuum, from its 
asymptomatic preclinical stage to its clinically overt dementia stage. We 
explore how this conceptualization provides a regulatory framework to evaluate 
amyloid-lowering mAbs across the entire spectrum of the disease. Additionally, 
we review key factors that affect the integration of these treatments into 
clinical practice.

© 2025. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41582-025-01123-5
PMID: 40691719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: M.S.R. is employed by the 
University of Southern California and the Alzheimer’s Therapeutics Research 
Institute (ATRI) and has received grants or contracts from Eisai and Eli Lilly, 
which were paid to his institution. He has received consulting fees from AC 
Immune and Ionis. He has participated on a data safety monitoring board or an 
advisory board for Alzheon, Alnylam, Biohaven, Embic, Prescient Imaging, 
Positrigo and Recall Therapeutics. P.S.A. has research grants from the National 
Institutes of Health, Eli Lilly and Eisai, and consults with Merck, Roche, BMS, 
Genentech, Abbvie, Biogen, ImmunoBrain Checkpoint, Arrowhead, AltPep and 
Neurimmune.


47. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 21;17(1):168. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01813-8.

Inhibition of FAM19A5 reverses synaptic loss and cognitive decline in mouse 
models of Alzheimer's disease.

Kim HB(#)(1), Yoo S(#)(1), Kwak H(#)(1), Ma SX(#)(1), Kim R(1), Lee M(1), Ha 
N(1), Pyo S(1), Kwon SG(1), Cho EH(1), Lee SM(1), Jang J(1), Kim WK(1)(2), Park 
HC(3), Baek M(4), Park Y(1), Park JY(5), Park JW(6)(7), Hwang SW(8), Hwang 
JI(8), Seong JY(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Neuracle Science Co., Ltd, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology, 291 Daehak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, 34141, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Graduate School of Medicine, Korea 
University, Ansan, 425-707, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, 08826, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Anam Hospital, Korea 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Neurology, Korea University Anam Hospital, Korea University 
Medicine, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea.
(7)Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, 37232, USA.
(8)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Graduate School of Medicine, Korea 
University, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea.
(9)Neuracle Science Co., Ltd, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea. 
jyseong@korea.ac.kr.
(10)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Graduate School of Medicine, Korea 
University, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea. jyseong@korea.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: FAM19A5 is a secretory protein primarily expressed in neurons. 
Although its role in synaptic function has been suggested, the precise molecular 
mechanisms underlying its effects at the synapse remain unclear. Given that 
synaptic loss is a critical hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), elucidating 
the mechanisms involving FAM19A5 could provide valuable insights into reversing 
synaptic loss in AD.
METHODS: The binding partner of FAM19A5 was identified through 
co-immunoprecipitation experiments of mouse brain tissue. The effect of FAM19A5 
on spine density in hippocampal neurons was evaluated using immunocytochemistry 
by overexpressing FAM19A5, treating neurons with FAM19A5 protein, and/or an 
anti-FAM19A5 antibody NS101. Target engagement of NS101 was determined by 
measuring FAM19A5 levels in mouse, rat, and human plasma at specific time points 
post NS101 injection using ELISA. Changes in spine density and dynamics in P301S 
tauopathy mice were assessed via Golgi staining and two-photon microscopy after 
NS101 administration. The synaptic strengthening of hippocampal neurons in 
APP/PS1 amyloidopathy mice after NS101 treatment was assessed by measuring 
miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) and field excitatory 
postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs). Cognitive performance in AD mice after NS101 
treatment was measured using the Y-maze and Morris water maze tests.
RESULTS: FAM19A5 binds to LRRC4B, a postsynaptic adhesion molecule, leading to 
reductions in spine density in mouse hippocampal neurons. Inhibiting FAM19A5 
function with NS101 increased spine density. Intravenous administration of NS101 
increased spine density in the prefrontal cortex of P301S mice, which initially 
showed reduced spine density compared to wild-type (WT) mice. NS101 normalized 
the spine elimination rate in P301S mice, restoring the net spine count to 
levels comparable to WT mice. NS101 treatment enhanced the frequency of mEPSCs 
and fEPSPs in the hippocampal synapses of APP/PS1 mice, leading to improved 
cognitive function. The increases in plasma FAM19A5 levels upon systemic NS101 
administration suggest that the antibody effectively engages its target and 
facilitates the transport of FAM19A5 from the brain.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that inhibiting FAM19A5 function with an 
anti-FAM19A5 antibody restores synaptic integrity and enhances cognitive 
function in AD, suggesting a novel therapeutic strategy for AD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05143463 , Identifier: 
NCT05143463, Release date: 3 December 2021.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01813-8
PMCID: PMC12281766
PMID: 40691577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal work was conducted in accordance with institutional 
policies and with the approval of the Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee of Korea University. And all procedures were performed in accordance 
with established ethical guidelines. All participants provided written informed 
consent in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki prior to enrollment in 
the study. The study adhered to Good Clinical Practice guidelines and all 
applicable regulatory requirements for clinical research. Consent for 
publication: All authors have consented to the publication of the manuscript. 
Competing interests: HB.K, SJ.Y, HY.K, SX.M, RH.K, MH.L, N.H, EH.C, SM.L, JW.J, 
WK.K, YS.P, SI.P, SG.K and JY.S are employed by Neuracle Science Co., Ltd. MH.L, 
SM.L, WK.K, SW.H, HC.P, and JY.S are shareholders of Neuracle Science Co., Ltd. 
The remaining authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.


48. Nat Med. 2025 Sep;31(9):3151-3168. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03827-z. Epub 2025
 Jul 21.

Polygenic prediction of body mass index and obesity through the life course and 
across ancestries.

Smit RAJ(1)(2)(3)(4), Wade KH(5)(6), Hui Q(7)(8), Arias JD(9), Yin X(10)(11), 
Christiansen MR(3), Yengo L(12), Preuss MH(1)(4), Nakabuye M(13), Rocheleau 
G(1)(14)(15), Graham SE(16), Buchanan VL(17), Chittoor G(18), Graff M(19), 
Guindo-Martínez M(1)(3), Lu Y(20), Marouli E(21)(22), Sakaue S(23)(24)(25)(26), 
Spracklen CN(27)(28), Vedantam S(25)(29), Wilson EP(27), Chen SH(30), Ferreira 
T(31), Ji Y(32), Karaderi T(33)(34), Lüll K(35), Machado M(9), Malden DE(31), 
Medina-Gomez C(36), Moore A(37), Rüeger S(38)(39), Akiyama M(23)(40), Allison 
MA(41), Alvarez M(42), Andersen MK(3), Appadurai V(43), Arbeeva L(44), Bartell 
E(25)(29)(45), Bhaskar S(46), Bielak LF(47), Bis JC(48), Bollepalli S(49), 
Bork-Jensen J(3), Bradfield JP(50)(51), Bradford Y(52), Brandl C(53)(54), Braund 
PS(55)(56), Brody JA(48), Broeckel U(57), Burgdorf KS(3)(58)(59), Cade 
BE(45)(60), Cai Q(61), Camarda S(62), Campbell A(63)(64), Cañadas-Garre M(65), 
Chai JF(66), Chesi A(67)(68), Choi SH(69), Christofidou P(70), Couture C(71), 
Cuellar-Partida G(72)(73), Danning R(74), Degenhardt F(75), Delgado GE(76), 
Delitala A(77), Demirkan A(78)(79), Deng X(80), Dietl A(53)(81), Dimitriou 
M(82)(83), Dimitrov L(84), Dorajoo R(85)(86), Eichelmann F(87)(88), Eliasen 
AU(25)(89)(90), Engmann JE(91), Erdos MR(92), Fairhurst-Hunter Z(31), Farmaki 
AE(83), Faul JD(93), Fernandez-Lopez JC(94), Forer L(95), Frank M(96), 
Freitag-Wolf S(97), Fritsche LG(11)(98), Fuchsberger C(99), Galesloot TE(100), 
Gao Y(101), Geller F(102), Giannakopoulou O(21), Giulianini F(74), Gjesing 
AP(3), Goel A(34)(103), Gordon SD(104), Gorski M(53), Grove J(105)(106)(107), 
Guo X(108), Gustafsson S(109), Haessler J(110), Hansen TF(111)(112)(113), 
Havulinna AS(49)(114), Haworth SJ(5)(115), Heard-Costa N(116)(117), Hemerich 
D(1), Highland HM(19), Hindy G(25)(118), Ho YL(119), Hofer E(120)(121), Holliday 
E(122), Horn K(123)(124), Hornsby WE(16), Hottenga JJ(125), Huang H(126), Huang 
J(127)(128), Huerta-Chagoya A(129)(130), Huo S(131), Hwang MY(132), Hwu CM(133), 
Iha H(134), Ikeda DD(134), Isono M(135), Jackson AU(11), Jansen IE(136)(137), 
Jiang Y(73), Johansson I(138)(139), Jonsson A(3), Jørgensen T(140)(141), 
Kalafati IP(83)(142), Kanai M(23)(24)(25), Kanoni S(21), Kårhus LL(140), 
Kasturiratne A(143), Katsuya T(144), Kawaguchi T(145), Kember RL(146)(147), 
Kentistou KA(148)(149), Kim D(19)(27), Kim HN(150)(151), Kim YJ(132), Kleber 
ME(76)(152), Knol MJ(78), Kurbasic A(153), Lauzon M(108), Le P(154)(155), Lea 
R(156), Lee JY(157), Lee WJ(158), Leonard HL(159)(160)(161), Li H(162)(163), Li 
SA(9)(164), Li X(108), Li X(165)(166), Liang J(165), Lin H(167), Lin K(31), Liu 
J(31)(78), Liu X(102), Lo KS(168), Long J(61), Lores-Motta L(169), Luan J(170), 
Lyssenko V(171)(172), Lyytikäinen LP(173)(174)(175), Mahajan A(34), Malik 
MZ(176), Mamakou V(177), Mangino M(70)(178), Manichaikul A(179), Marten J(180), 
Mattheisen M(105)(181)(182), McDaid AF(38)(39), Mei Q(80), Meiselbach H(183), 
Melendez TL(16), Milaneschi Y(184), Miller JE(185)(186), Millwood IY(31), Mishra 
PP(173)(174), Mitchell RE(5)(6), Møllehave LT(140), Mononen N(174)(187), Mucha 
S(188)(189), Munz M(188), Mykkänen J(190)(191), Nakatochi M(192), Nardone 
GG(62), Nelson CP(55)(56), Nethander M(193)(194), Nho CW(195), Nielsen AA(196), 
Nolte IM(197), Nongmaithem SS(46)(198), Noordam R(2)(199), Ntalla I(21), Nutile 
T(200), Pandit A(11), Pauper M(169), Petersen ERB(201), Petersen LV(106)(202), 
Piluso F(62), Polašek O(203)(204), Poveda A(153), Pyarajan S(45)(60)(205), 
Raffield LM(27), Rakugi H(144), Ramirez J(21), Rasheed A(206), Raven D(207), 
Rayner NW(208), Riveros C(209), Rohde R(19), Ruggiero D(200), Ruotsalainen 
SE(49), Ryan KA(210)(211), Sabater-Lleal M(212)(213)(214), Santin A(62)(215), 
Saxena R(25)(216), Scholz M(123)(124), Shen B(217), Shi J(73), Shin JH(218), 
Sidore C(219), Sidorenko J(12), Sim X(66), Slieker RC(220)(221), Smith 
AV(222)(223), Smith JA(47)(93), Smyth LJ(65), Southam L(208), Steinthorsdottir 
V(224), Sun L(131), Takeuchi F(135), Taylor KD(108), Tayo BO(225), Tcheandjieu 
C(226)(227), Terzikhan N(78), Tesolin P(62)(215), Teumer A(228)(229), Theusch 
E(230), Thompson DJ(231), Thorleifsson G(224), Timmers PRHJ(148)(180), Trompet 
S(232)(233), Turman C(126), Vaccargiu S(219), van der Laan SW(234)(235), van der 
Most PJ(197), van Klinken JB(236)(237)(238), van Setten J(239), Verma SS(67), 
Verweij N(240), Veturi Y(241), Wang CA(122)(209), Wang C(242), Wang JS(243), 
Wang L(244), Wang YX(245), Wang Z(1)(246), Warren HR(21)(247), Bin Wei W(248), 
Wen W(61), Wheeler WA(249), Wickremasinghe AR(143), Wielscher M(250)(251), 
Winsvold BS(252)(253), Wong A(254), Wuttke M(255)(256), Xia R(257), Yamamoto 
K(258), Yang J(259)(260), Yao J(108), Young H(261), Yousri NA(262)(263), Yu 
L(259)(260), Zeng L(264), Zhang W(265), Zhang X(52), Zhao JH(266)(267), Zhao 
W(47)(93), Zhou W(25)(268)(269)(270), Zimmermann ME(53), Zoledziewska M(219), 't 
Hart LM(220)(221)(271)(272), Adair LS(273)(274), Adams HHH(275)(276), 
Aguilar-Salinas CA(277)(278), Al-Mulla F(176), Arnett DK(279), Asselbergs 
FW(280)(281)(282), Åsvold BO(283)(284)(285), Attia J(122), Banas B(286), 
Bandinelli S(287), Beilin LJ(288), Bennett DA(259)(260), Bergler T(286), 
Bharadwaj D(289), Biino G(290), Boerwinkle E(291), Böger CA(286)(292)(293), 
Borja JB(294)(295), Bouchard C(296), Bowden DW(84), Brandslund I(201)(297), 
Brumpton B(283)(298), Buring JE(45)(74), Caulfield MJ(21)(247), Chambers 
JC(265)(299)(300)(301), Chandak GR(46)(302), Chanock SJ(9), Chaturvedi N(254), 
Ida Chen YD(108), Chen Z(31), Cheng CY(162)(303)(304), Cho YS(218), Christensen 
K(305), Christophersen IE(306)(307), Ciullo M(200)(308), Cole JW(309)(310), 
Collins FS(92), Concas MP(215), Cooper RS(225), Cruz M(311), Cucca F(219)(312), 
Cutler MJ(313), Damrauer SM(52)(147)(314), Dantoft TM(140), de Borst GJ(315), de 
Geus EJC(125)(316), de Groot LCPGM(317), De Jager PL(318), de Kleijn DPV(315), 
de Silva HJ(143), Dedoussis GV(83), den Hollander AI(169), Du S(273)(274), 
Easton DF(231)(319), Eckardt KU(183)(320), Elders PJM(321), Eliassen 
AH(126)(322)(323), Ellinor PT(69)(324)(325), Elmståhl S(118), Erdmann J(188), 
Evans MK(217), Fatkin D(326)(327)(328), Feenstra B(102), Feitosa MF(244), 
Ferrucci L(329), Florez JC(129)(216)(330)(331), Ford I(332), Fornage 
M(257)(333), Franke A(75), Franks PW(323)(334)(335), Freedman BI(336), Gieger 
C(88)(337), Girotto G(62)(215), Golightly YM(44)(338), Gonzalez-Villalpando 
C(339), Gordon-Larsen P(273)(274), Grallert H(88)(337), Grant 
SFA(50)(52)(340)(341)(342), Grarup N(3), Griffiths L(156), Gudnason V(223)(343), 
Haiman C(344), Hakonarson H(50)(340)(342)(345), Hansen T(3), Hartman CA(207), 
Hattersley AT(346), Hayward C(63)(180), Heid IM(53), Heng CK(86)(347), 
Hengstenberg C(348), Herzig KH(349)(350), Hewitt AW(351)(352)(353), Hishigaki 
H(134), Hougaard DM(58)(106), Hoyng CB(169), Huang PL(45)(325)(354), Huang 
W(355), Huang WY(9), Huffman JE(119), Hunt SC(356), Hutri N(357)(358), Hveem 
K(283)(284), Hyppönen E(359)(360), Iacono WG(261), Ichihara S(361), Ikram 
MA(78), Isasi CR(362), Jarvelin MR(250)(363)(364)(365), Jin ZB(245)(366), Jöckel 
KH(96), Jonas JB(367)(368)(369)(370), Joshi PK(148), Jousilahti P(114), Jukema 
JW(233)(371)(372), Kähönen M(373)(374), Kamatani Y(23)(375), Kang KD(376), 
Kaprio J(49), Kardia SLR(47), Karpe F(377)(378), Kato N(135), Kavousi M(78), Kee 
F(65), Kessler T(264)(379), Khera AV(45)(380)(381), Khor CC(85), Kiemeney 
LALM(100)(382), Kim BJ(132), Kim EK(383)(384), Kim HL(385), Kirchhof 
P(386)(387)(388)(389), Kivimaki M(390)(391), Koh WP(392), Koistinen 
HA(114)(393)(394), Kokkinos A(395), Kooner JS(300)(301)(396)(397), Kooperberg 
C(110), Kovacs P(398), Kraaijeveld A(239), Kraft P(126), Krauss RM(230), Kumari 
M(399), Kutalik Z(38)(39), Laakso M(400), Lange LA(401), Langenberg 
C(170)(402)(403), Launer LJ(217), Lee H(404), Lee NR(294), Lehtimäki 
T(173)(174), Lemaitre RN(48), Li H(131), Li L(405)(406), Lieb W(407), Lin 
X(131)(408), Lind L(109), Linneberg A(140)(409), Liu CT(80), Liu J(85), Loeffler 
M(123)(124), London B(410), Lu F(366), Lubitz SA(69)(324)(325), Mackey 
DA(351)(353), Magnusson PKE(411), Manson JE(45)(60)(74), Marcus GM(412), Marques 
Vidal P(413)(414), Martin NG(104), März W(76)(415)(416), Matsuda F(145), 
McCarthy MI(34)(377), McGarrah RW(417)(418), McGue M(261), McKnight AJ(65), 
Medland SE(419), Mellström D(193)(420), Metspalu A(35), Mitchell 
BD(210)(211)(335), Mitchell P(421), Mook-Kanamori DO(2)(422), Mori TA(288), 
Morris AD(423), Mucci LA(126), Munroe PB(21)(247), Nalls MA(159)(160)(424), 
Nazarian S(425), Nelson AE(44)(426), Neville MJ(377)(378), Newton-Cheh 
C(216)(325), Nielsen CS(427)(428), Niinikoski H(190)(191), Nikus K(175)(429), 
Nöthen MM(430), Ogunniyi A(431), Ohlsson C(193)(432), Oldehinkel AJ(207), Orozco 
L(433), Pahkala K(190)(191)(434), Pajukanta P(42)(435), Palmer CNA(436), Parra 
EJ(155), Pattaro C(99), Pedersen O(3), Pennell CE(122)(209), Penninx BWJH(184), 
Perusse L(71)(437), Peters A(88)(438)(439), Peyser PA(47), Porteous DJ(63), 
Posthuma D(136), Power C(440), Pramstaller PP(99), Province MA(244), Psaty 
BM(48)(441)(442), Qi Q(362), Qu J(366), Rader DJ(52)(443), Raitakari 
OT(190)(191)(444)(445), Rallidis LS(446), Rao DC(447), Redline S(45)(60), Reilly 
DF(448), Reiner AP(110)(441), Rhee SY(449), Ridker PM(45)(74), Rienstra M(240), 
Ripatti S(25)(49)(450), Ritchie MD(52), Rivadeneira F(36), Roden DM(451), 
Rosendaal FR(2), Rotter JI(108), Rudan I(148), Rutters F(221), Ryu 
S(150)(452)(453), Sabanayagam C(304)(454), Salako B(455), Saleheen D(206)(456), 
Salomaa V(114), Samani NJ(55)(56), Sanghera DK(457)(458)(459)(460), Sattar 
N(461), Schmidt B(96), Schmidt H(462), Schmidt R(120), Schulze MB(87)(88)(463), 
Schunkert H(464), Scott LJ(11), Scott RJ(465), Sever P(397), Sheu WHH(466), 
Shoemaker MB(467), Shu XO(61), Simonsick EM(329), Sims M(468), Singleton 
AB(159), Sinner MF(379)(469), Smith JG(470)(471)(472), Snieder H(197), Spector 
TD(70), Spedicati B(62)(215), Stampfer MJ(126)(322)(323), Stark KJ(53), Strachan 
DP(473), Tabara Y(145), Tai ES(66)(474), Tang H(475), Tardif JC(168)(476), 
Thanaraj TA(176), Tönjes A(398), Tuomi T(49)(172)(477)(478)(479), Tuomilehto 
J(114)(480)(481), Tusié-Luna MT(277)(482), van Dam RM(66)(483), van der Harst 
P(239)(240), Van der Velde N(36)(484), van Duijn CM(31)(78), van Schoor NM(485), 
Vitart V(180), Vohl MC(437)(486), Völker U(229)(487), Vollenweider P(413)(414), 
Völzke H(229)(488), Vrieze S(261), Wacher-Rodarte NH(489), Walker M(490), Wander 
GS(491), Wareham NJ(170), Watanabe RM(492)(493)(494), Watkins H(34)(103), Weir 
DR(93), Werge TM(43)(409), Widen E(49), Willemsen G(125), Willett WC(126)(323), 
Wilson JF(148)(180), Wilson PWF(7)(495), Wong TY(368)(496), Woo JT(449), Wright 
AF(180), Xu H(210)(211), Yajnik CS(497), Yang J(498)(499), Yokota M(500), Yuan 
JM(501)(502), Zeggini E(208)(503), Zemel BS(52)(68)(341)(342), Zheng W(61), Zhu 
X(165), Zillikens MC(36), Zonderman AB(217), Zwart JA(252)(504); 23andMe 
Research Team; DiscovEHR (DiscovEHR and MyCode Community Health Initiative); 
eMERGE (Electronic Medical Records and Genomics Network); GPC-UGR; PRACTICAL 
Consortium; Understanding Society Scientific Group; VA Million Veteran Program; 
Abecasis GR(11), Assimes TL(226)(505), Auton A(73), Boehnke M(11), Chasman 
DI(45)(74), Esko T(35), Stefansson K(224)(343), Lettre G(168)(476), Lindgren 
CM(25)(31)(34), Ng MCY(506)(507), O'Donnell CJ(45)(60)(508), Thorsteinsdottir 
U(224)(343), Visscher PM(12)(31), Walters RG(31), Winkler TW(53), Wood AR(32), 
Deloukas P(21)(509), Frayling TM(32)(510), Justice AE(18)(19), Kilpeläinen 
TO(3), Locke AE(511), Mohlke KL(27), North KE(19), Okada Y(24)(512)(513)(514), 
Willer CJ(16)(268)(515), Young KL(19), Fatumo S(403)(516), McCaffery JM(517), 
Timpson NJ(5)(6), Hirschhorn JN(29)(129)(518), Sun YV(7)(8), Berndt SI(9), Loos 
RJF(519)(520)(521)(522).

Author information:
(1)The Charles Bronfman Institute for Personalized Medicine, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of 
Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Environmental Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(5)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(6)Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 
Bristol, UK.
(7)Atlanta VA Health Care System, Decatur, GA, USA.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, Emory University Rollins School of Public Health, 
Atlanta, GA, USA.
(9)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, 
Rockville, MD, USA.
(10)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, China.
(11)Department of Biostatistics and Center for Statistical Genetics, University 
of Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(12)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.
(13)Department of Public Health, Section of Epidemiology, Algorithmic Fairness 
Research Group, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(14)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(15)Center for Genomic Data Analytics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY, USA.
(16)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Cardiology, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(17)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(18)Department of Population Health Sciences, Geisinger, Danville, PA, USA.
(19)Department of Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(20)Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(21)William Harvey Research Institute, Barts and the London School of Medicine 
and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK.
(22)Digital Environment Research Institute, Queen Mary University of London, 
London, UK.
(23)Laboratory for Statistical Analysis, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical 
Sciences, Yokohama, Japan.
(24)Department of Statistical Genetics, Osaka University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(25)Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and 
Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(26)Divisions of Genetics and Rheumatology, Brigham and Women's Hospital and 
Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(27)Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA.
(28)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, School of Public Health and 
Health Sciences, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.
(29)Division of Endocrinology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(30)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, Wake Forest School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(31)Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(32)Genetics of Complex Traits, College of Medicine and Health, University of 
Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(33)Center for Health Data Science, Section for Health Data Science and 
Artificial Intelligence, Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health and 
Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(34)Nuffield Department of Medicine, Centre for Human Genetics, University of 
Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(35)Estonian Genome Centre, Institute of Genomics, University of Tartu, Tartu, 
Estonia.
(36)Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(37)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, RTI International, Durham, NC, 
USA.
(38)Center for Primary Care and Public Health, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(39)Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(40)Department of Ophthalmology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(41)Department of Family Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA, USA.
(42)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(43)Institute of Biological Psychiatry, Mental Health Services, Copenhagen 
University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(44)Thurston Arthritis Research Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(45)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(46)Genomic Research on Complex Diseases (GRC-Group), CSIR-Centre for Cellular 
and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, India.
(47)Department of Epidemiology, University of Michigan School of Public Health, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(48)Cardiovascular Health Research Unit, Department of Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(49)Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), HiLIFE, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(50)Center for Applied Genomics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(51)Quantinuum Research, LLC, Wayne, PA, USA.
(52)Department of Genetics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(53)Department of Genetic Epidemiology, University of Regensburg, Regensburg, 
Germany.
(54)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Regensburg, Regensburg, 
Germany.
(55)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, 
UK.
(56)NIHR Leicester Biomedical Research Centre, Glenfield Hospital, Leicester, 
UK.
(57)Department of Pediatrics, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA.
(58)Department of Congenital Disorders and Danish National Biobank, Statens 
Serum Institut, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(59)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(60)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(61)Division of Epidemiology, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(62)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Health Sciences, University of Trieste, 
Trieste, Italy.
(63)Centre for Genomic and Experimental Medicine, Institute of Genetics and 
Cancer, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(64)Usher Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh Bioquarter, Edinburgh, 
UK.
(65)Centre for Public Health, Queen's University of Belfast, Northern Ireland, 
UK.
(66)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore and 
National University Health System, Singapore, Singapore.
(67)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(68)Center for Spatial and Functional Genomics, Division of Human Genetics, 
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(69)Cardiovascular Disease Initiative, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, MA, USA.
(70)Department of Twin Research and Genetic Epidemiology, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(71)Department of Kinesiology, Faculty of Medicine, Université Laval, Québec, 
QC, Canada.
(72)Diamantina Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.
(73)23andMe, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA, USA.
(74)Division of Preventive Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(75)Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, Christian Albrechts University of 
Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
(76)Vth Department of Medicine, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, 
Mannheim, Germany.
(77)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche Chirurgiche e Sperimentali, Università degli 
Studi di Sassari, Sassari, Italy.
(78)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(79)Section of Statistical Multi-omics, Department of Clinical and Experimental 
Medicine, University of Surrey, Guildford, UK.
(80)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(81)Department of Internal Medicine II, University Hospital Regensburg, 
Regensburg, Germany.
(82)Department of Nutrition Science and Dietetics, School of Health Sciences, 
University of the Peloponnese, Kalamata, Greece.
(83)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, School of Health Science and 
Education, Harokopio University, Athens, Greece.
(84)Department of Biochemistry, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, 
NC, USA.
(85)Genome Institute of Singapore, Agency for Science, Technology and Research 
(A*STAR), Singapore, Singapore.
(86)Department of Paediatrics, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(87)Department of Molecular Epidemiology, German Institute of Human Nutrition 
Potsdam-Rehbruecke, Nuthetal, Germany.
(88)German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), Neuherberg, Germany.
(89)COPSAC, Copenhagen Prospective Studies on Asthma in Childhood, Herlev and 
Gentofte Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(90)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Endocrinology, Boston Children's 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(91)Institute of Cardiovascular Science, Faculty of Population Health, 
University College London, London, UK.
(92)Molecular Genetics Section, Center for Precision Health Research, National 
Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.
(93)Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(94)Department of Computational Genomics, National Institute of Genomic 
Medicine, Mexico City, Mexico.
(95)Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, 
Innsbruck, Austria.
(96)Institute for Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, University 
Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany.
(97)Institute of Medical Informatics and Statistics, Kiel University, Kiel, 
Germany.
(98)Rogel Cancer Center, University of Michigan Medicine, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(99)Eurac Research Institute for Biomedicine, Bolzano, Italy.
(100)Department for Health Evidence, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(101)Jackson Heart Study, Department of Medicine, University of Mississippi, 
Jackson, MS, USA.
(102)Department of Epidemiology Research, Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(103)Cardiovascular Medicine/Radcliffe Department of Medicine, University of 
Oxford, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(104)Genetic Epidemiology, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.
(105)Department of Biomedicine (Human Genetics) and iSEQ Center, Aarhus 
University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(106)The Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research, 
iPSYCH, Aarhus, Denmark.
(107)BiRC - Bioinformatics Research Centre, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(108)The Institute for Translational Genomics and Population Sciences, 
Department of Pediatrics, Lundquist Institute for Biomedical Innovation at 
Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, CA, USA.
(109)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(110)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(111)Translational Research Centre, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(112)Danish Headache Center, Department of Neurology, Copenhagen University 
Hospital, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(113)Danish Multiple Sclerosis Center, Department of Neurology, Copenhagen 
University Hospital, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(114)Department of Public Health and Welfare, Finnish Institute for Health and 
Welfare, Helsinki, Finland.
(115)Bristol Dental School, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(116)Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(117)Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA, USA.
(118)Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(119)Veterans Affairs Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA.
(120)Clinical Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurology, Medical 
University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(121)Institute for Medical Informatics, Statistics and Documentation, Medical 
University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(122)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, 
New South Wales, Australia.
(123)Leipzig University, Medical Faculty, Institute for Medical Informatics, 
Statistics and Epidemiology, Leipzig, Germany.
(124)Leipzig University, Medical Faculty, LIFE Research Center for Civilization 
Diseases, Leipzig, Germany.
(125)Department of Biological Psychology, Behaviour and Movement Sciences, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(126)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(127)School of Public Health and Emergency Management, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.
(128)Institute for Global Health and Development, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.
(129)Program in Metabolism and Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad 
Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(130)Center for Genomic Medicine and Diabetes Unit, Endocrine Division, 
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(131)Shanghai Institute of Nutrition and Health, University of Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(132)Division of Genome Science, Department of Precision Medicine, National 
Institute of Health, Cheongwon-gun, Republic of Korea.
(133)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, Taipei 
Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(134)Biomedical Technology Research Center, Tokushima Research Institute, Otsuka 
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Tokushima, Japan.
(135)Research Institute, National Center for Global Health and Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(136)Department of Complex Trait Genetics, Center for Neurogenomics and 
Cognitive Research, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(137)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Pediatric Psychology, 
Section Complex Trait Genetics, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije Universiteit 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(138)Department of Biobank Research, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.
(139)Department of Odontology, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.
(140)Center for Clinical Research and Prevention, Copenhagen University Hospital 
- Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg, Frederiksberg, Denmark.
(141)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(142)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, School of Physical Education, Sport 
Science and Dietetics, University of Thessaly, Trikala, Greece.
(143)Faculty of Medicine, University of Kelaniya, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
(144)Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(145)Center for Genomic Medicine, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto, Japan.
(146)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA.
(147)Corporal Michael J. Crescenz VA Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(148)Centre for Global Health, Usher Institute, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, Scotland.
(149)Centre for Cardiovascular Sciences, Queens Medical Research Institute, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland.
(150)Department of Clinical Research Design and Evaluation, Samsung Advanced 
Institute for Health Sciences and Technology, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(151)Center for Clinical Epidemiology, Research Institute for Future Medicine, 
Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(152)SYNLAB MVZ Humangenetik Mannheim, Mannheim, Germany.
(153)Department of Clinical Sciences, Genetic and Molecular Epidemiology Unit, 
Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.
(154)Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(155)Department of Anthropology, University of Toronto at Mississauga, 
Mississauga, ON, Canada.
(156)Genomics Research Centre, Centre for Genomics and Personalised Health, 
School of Biomedical Sciences, Qld University of Technology, Kelvin Grove, 
Queensland, Australia.
(157)Oneomics, Soonchunhyang Mirai Medical Center, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of 
Korea.
(158)Department of Medical Research, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, 
Taichung, Taiwan.
(159)Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(160)Center for Alzheimer's and Related Dementias, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(161)Data Tecnica International, Glen Echo, MD, USA.
(162)Centre for Innovation and Precision Eye Health, Yong Loo Lin School of 
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(163)Department of Ophthalmology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(164)Cancer Genomics Research Laboratory, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc., 
Rockville, MD, USA.
(165)Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(166)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, St. Cloud State University, St. 
Cloud, MN, USA.
(167)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, USA.
(168)Montreal Heart Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(169)Departments of Ophthalmology and Human Genetics, Radboud University 
Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(170)MRC Epidemiology Unit, University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, 
Cambridge, UK.
(171)Department of Clinical Science, Center for Diabetes Research, University of 
Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(172)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University Diabetes Centre, Malmö, 
Sweden.
(173)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Fimlab Laboratories, Tampere, Finland.
(174)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Finnish Cardiovascular Research Center - 
Tampere, Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, Tampere University, Tampere, 
Finland.
(175)Department of Cardiology, Heart Center, Tampere University Hospital, 
Tampere, Finland.
(176)Department of Genetics & Bioinformatics, Dasman Diabetes Institute, Kuwait 
City, Kuwait.
(177)National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Dromokaiteio Psychiatric 
Hospital, Athens, Greece.
(178)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Guy's and St. Thomas' Foundation Trust, 
London, UK.
(179)Center for Public Health Genomics, University of Virginia School of 
Medicine, Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(180)MRC Human Genetics Unit, Institute of Genetics and Cancer, University of 
Edinburgh, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, Scotland.
(181)Department of Community Health & Epidemiology and Faculty of Computer 
Science, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada.
(182)Institute of Psychiatric Phenomics and Genomics (IPPG), University 
Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, Germany.
(183)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Friedrich Alexander Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(184)Department of Psychiatry, Amsterdam Public Health and Amsterdam 
Neuroscience Amsterdam UMC/Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(185)Biomedical and Translational Informatics Institute, Geisinger, Danville, 
PA, USA.
(186)Department of Genetics, Institute for Biomedical Informatics, Perelman 
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(187)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Tampere University Hospital, Wellbeing 
Services County of Pirkanmaa, Tampere, Finland.
(188)Institute for Cardiogenetics, University of Lübeck, DZHK (German Research 
Centre for Cardiovascular Research), partner site Hamburg/Lübeck/Kiel and 
University Heart Center Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.
(189)Institute of Epidemiology and Biobank PopGen, University Hospital Schleswig 
Holstein, Campus Kiel and Kiel University, Kiel, Germany.
(190)Centre for Population Health Research, University of Turku and Turku 
University Hospital, Turku, Finland.
(191)Research Centre of Applied and Preventive Cardiovascular Medicine, 
University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(192)Public Health Informatics Unit, Department of Integrated Health Sciences, 
Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.
(193)Centre for Bone and Arthritis Research, Department of Internal Medicine and 
Clinical Nutrition, Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(194)Bioinformatics Core Facility, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(195)Korea Institute of Science and Technology, Gangneung Institute of Natural 
Products, Gangneung, Republic of Korea.
(196)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Lillebaelt Hospital, Kolding, Denmark.
(197)Department of Epidemiology, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(198)Department of Human Genetics, Wellcome Sanger Institute, Hinxton, UK.
(199)Health Campus The Hague/Public Health and Primary Care, Leiden University 
Medical Center, The Hague, The Netherlands.
(200)Institute of Genetics and Biophysics A. Buzzati-Traverso, CNR, Naples, 
Italy.
(201)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Lillebaelt Hospital, Vejle, Denmark.
(202)The National Centre for Register-based Research, University of Aarhus, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(203)Medical School, University of Split, Šoltanska 2, Split, Croatia.
(204)Algebra University College, Zagreb, Croatia.
(205)Center for Data and Computational Sciences, VA Boston Healthcare System, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(206)Center for Non-Communicable Diseases, Karachi, Pakistan.
(207)Department of Psychiatry, Interdisciplinary Center Psychopathology and 
Emotion Regulation, University of Groningen, University Medical Center 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(208)Institute of Translational Genomics, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German 
Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(209)Hunter Medical Research Institute, New Lambton Heights, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(210)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes & Nutrition, 
University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(211)Program for Personalized and Genomic Medicine, University of Maryland 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(212)Unit of Genomics of Complex Diseases, Institut de Recerca Sant Pau (IR Sant 
Pau), Barcelona, Spain.
(213)Cardiovascular Medicine Unit, Department of Medicine, Karolinska 
Institutet, Center for Molecular Medicine, Stockholm, Sweden.
(214)Centre for Biomedical Network Research on Rare Diseases (CIBERER), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(215)Institute for Maternal and Child Health, IRCCS Burlo Garofolo, Trieste, 
Italy.
(216)Center for Genomic Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(217)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Population Sciences, National Institute on 
Aging, National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(218)Department of Biomedical Science, Hallym University, Chuncheon, Republic of 
Korea.
(219)Istituto di Ricerca Genetica e Biomedica, Consiglio Nazionale delle 
Ricerche (CNR), Cagliari, Italy.
(220)Department of Cell and Chemical Biology, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.
(221)Department of Epidemiology and Data Science, Amsterdam Public Health 
Institute, Amsterdam Cardiovascular Sciences Institute, Amsterdam UMC, location 
VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(222)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan School of Public 
Health, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(223)Icelandic Heart Association, Kopavogur, Iceland.
(224)deCODE Genetics/Amgen, Inc., Reykjavik, Iceland.
(225)Department of Public Health Sciences, Parkinson School of Health Sciences 
and Public Health, Loyola University Chicago, Maywood, IL, USA.
(226)VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA, USA.
(227)Gladstone Institute of Data Science and Biotechnology, Gladstone Institute, 
San Francisco, CA, USA.
(228)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medicine Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany.
(229)DZHK (German Centre for Cardiovascular Research), partner site Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany.
(230)Cardiology Division, Department of Pediatrics, University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(231)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.
(232)Department of Internal Medicine, Section of Gerontology and Geriatrics, 
Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(233)Department of Cardiology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(234)Central Diagnostic Laboratory, Division Laboratories, Pharmacy, and 
Biomedical Genetics, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht University, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(235)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, 
USA.
(236)Department of Human Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(237)Laboratory of Genetic Metabolic Diseases, Amsterdam UMC, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam Gastroenterology and Metabolism, Amsterdam Cardiovascular 
Sciences Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(238)Core Facility Metabolomics, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(239)Department of Cardiology, Division Heart and Lungs, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(240)Department of Cardiology, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(241)Department of Biobehavioral Health, Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA, USA.
(242)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 
China.
(243)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(244)Division of Statistical Genomics, Department of Genetics, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(245)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences Key Laboratory, 
Beijing, China.
(246)Department of Epidemiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, USA.
(247)NIHR Barts Cardiovascular Biomedical Research Centre, Barts and The London 
School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK.
(248)Department of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(249)Information Management Services, Inc., Calverton, UK.
(250)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, MRC-PHE Centre for 
Environment and Health, School of Public Health, Imperial College London, 
London, UK.
(251)Department of Dermatology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(252)Department of Research and Innovation, Division of Clinical Neuroscience, 
Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(253)Department of Neurology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(254)Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing at UCL, Institute of Cardiovascular 
Science, University College London, London, UK.
(255)Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine and Medical Center, 
University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(256)Department of Medicine IV - Nephrology and Primary Care, Faculty of 
Medicine and Medical Center, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(257)Institute of Molecular Medicine, McGovern Medical School, The University of 
Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(258)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Kurume University School of Medicine, 
Kurume, Japan.
(259)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA.
(260)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(261)Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(262)Department of Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, Doha, Qatar.
(263)Department of Computer and Systems Engineering, Alexandria University, 
Alexandria, Egypt.
(264)Department of Cardiology, German Heart Centre Munich, Technical University 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(265)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Imperial College London, 
London, UK.
(266)Cardiovascular Epidemiology Unit, Department of Public Health and Primary 
Care, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(267)Victor Phillip Dahdaleh Heart & Lung Research Institute, Cambridge 
Biomedical Campus, Cambridge, UK.
(268)Department of Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(269)Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(270)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and 
Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(271)Amsterdam Cardiovascular Sciences Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(272)Molecular Epidemiology Section, Department of Biomedical Data Sciences, 
Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(273)Department of Nutrition, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(274)Carolina Population Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(275)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands.
(276)Latin American Brain Health (BrainLat), Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez, 
Santiago, Chile.
(277)Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán, Mexico 
City, Mexico.
(278)Tecnologico de Monterrey, Escuela de Medicina y Ciencias de la Salud, 
Monterrey, Mexico.
(279)Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Arnold School of Public Health, University 
of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA.
(280)Department of Cardiology, Amsterdam Cardiovascular Sciences Institute, 
Amsterdam University Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(281)Institute of Health Informatics, University College London, London, UK.
(282)The National Institute for Health Research University College London 
Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre, University College London, London, UK.
(283)HUNT Center for Molecular and Clinical Epidemiology, Department of Public 
Health and Nursing, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, NTNU, Trondheim, Norway.
(284)HUNT Research Center, Department of Public Health and Nursing, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Levanger, Norway.
(285)Department of Endocrinology, Clinic of Medicine, St. Olavs Hospital, 
Trondheim University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(286)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital Regensburg, Regensburg, 
Germany.
(287)Geriatric Unit, Azienda Toscana Centro, Florence, Italy.
(288)Medical School, Royal Perth Hospital Unit, University of Western Australia, 
Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(289)Systems Genomics Laboratory, School of Biotechnology, Jawaharlal Nehru 
University (JNU), New Delhi, India.
(290)Institute of Molecular Genetics, National Research Council of Italy, Pavia, 
Italy.
(291)Human Genetics Center and Department of Epidemiology, The University of 
Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(292)Department of Nephrology and Rheumatology, Kliniken Südostbayern, 
Regensburg, Germany.
(293)KfH Kidney Center Traunstein, Traunstein, Germany.
(294)USC-Office of Population Studies Foundation, Inc., University of San 
Carlos, Cebu City, Philippines.
(295)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, University of San Carlos, Cebu City, 
Philippines.
(296)Human Genomics Laboratory, Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Baton 
Rouge, LA, USA.
(297)Institute of Regional Health Research, University of Southern Denmark, 
Odense, Denmark.
(298)Clinic of Medicine, St. Olavs Hospital, Trondheim University Hospital, 
Trondheim, Norway.
(299)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(300)Department of Cardiology, Ealing Hospital, London North West University 
Healthcare NHS Trust, Middlesex, UK.
(301)Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(302)Lightening Lives, Hyderabad, India.
(303)Department of Ophthalmology, National University of Singapore and National 
University Health System, Singapore, Singapore.
(304)Ocular Epidemiology, Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National 
Eye Centre, Singapore, Singapore.
(305)Danish Aging Research Center, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark.
(306)Department of Medical Genetics, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(307)Department of Medical Research, Bærum Hospital, Vestre Viken Hospital 
Trust, Gjettum, Norway.
(308)IRCCS Neuromed, Pozzilli (IS), Pozzilli, Italy.
(309)Department of Neurology, Division of Vascular Neurology, University of 
Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(310)Department of Neurology, Baltimore Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(311)Unidad de Investigación Médica en Bioquímica, Hospital de Especialidades, 
Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Mexico 
City, Mexico.
(312)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche, Università degli Studi di Sassari, 
Sassari, Italy.
(313)Intermountain Heart Institute, Intermountain Medical Center, Murray, UT, 
USA.
(314)Department of Surgery, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(315)Department of Vascular Surgery, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
University of Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(316)Amsterdam Public Health and Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam UMC/Vrije 
Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(317)Department of Human Nutrition, Wageningen University, Wageningen, The 
Netherlands.
(318)Center for Translational and Computational Neuroimmunology, Department of 
Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(319)Department of Oncology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(320)Department of Nephrology and Medical Intensive Care, Charité - 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(321)Department of General Practice, Amsterdam Public Health Institute, 
Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(322)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(323)Department of Nutrition, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(324)Cardiac Arrhythmia Service, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(325)Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(326)Molecular Cardiology Division, Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute, 
Darlinghurst, New South Wales, Australia.
(327)Department of Cardiology, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(328)Faculty of Medicine, UNSW Sydney, Kensington, New South Wales, Australia.
(329)Translational Gerontology Branch, National Institute on Aging, National 
Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(330)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(331)Diabetes Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(332)Robertson Center for Biostatistics, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(333)Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, The University of Texas 
Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(334)Department of Clinical Sciences, Genetic and Molecular Epidemiology Unit, 
Lund University, Helsingborg, Sweden.
(335)Geriatrics Research and Education Clinical Center, Baltimore Veterans 
Administration Medical Center, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(336)Section on Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Wake Forest School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(337)Research Unit of Molecular Epidemiology, Institute of Epidemiology, 
Helmholtz Zentrum München Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, 
Germany.
(338)College of Allied Health Professions, University of Nebraksa Medical 
Center, Omaha, NE, USA.
(339)Centro de Investigacion en Salud Poblacional Instituto Nacional de Salud 
Publica and Centro de Estudios en Diabetes, Cuernavaca Morelos, Mexico.
(340)Division of Human Genetics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(341)Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Children's Hospital of 
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(342)Department of Pediatrics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(343)Faculty of Medicine, University of Iceland, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(344)Department of Preventive Medicine, Keck School of Medicine of USC, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(345)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(346)Department of Clinical and Biomedical Sciences, University of Exeter, 
Exeter, UK.
(347)Khoo Teck Puat - National University Children's Medical Institute, National 
University Health System, Singapore, Singapore.
(348)Department of Internal Medicine II, Division of Cardiology, Medical 
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(349)Research Unit of Biomedicine and Internal Medicine, Biocenter of Oulu, 
Medical Research Center, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(350)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Metabolic Diseases, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Poznań, Poland.
(351)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania, Hobart, 
Tasmania, Australia.
(352)Centre for Eye Research Australia, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(353)Lions Eye Institute, Centre for Ophthalmology and Visual Science, 
University of Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(354)Division of Cardiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(355)Department of Genetics, Shanghai-MOST Key Laboratory of Heath and Disease 
Genomics, Chinese National Human Genome Center and Shanghai Industrial 
Technology Institute, Shanghai, China.
(356)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, 
USA.
(357)Department of Pediatrics, Tampere University Hospital, Tampere, Finland.
(358)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, 
Tampere University, Tampere, Finland.
(359)Australian Centre for Precision Health, Clinical and Health Sciences, 
University of South Australia, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(360)South Australian Health and Medical Research Institute, Adelaide, South 
Australia, Australia.
(361)Department of Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Jichi Medical 
University School of Medicine, Shimotsuke, Japan.
(362)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstein College 
of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.
(363)Center for Life Course Health Research, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Oulu, Oulun, Finland.
(364)Unit of Primary Health Care, Oulu University Hospital, OYS, Oulu, Finland.
(365)Department of Life Sciences, College of Health and Life Sciences, Brunel 
University London, Uxbridge, UK.
(366)The Eye Hospital, School of Ophthalmology & Optometry, Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, China.
(367)Institut Français de Myopie, Hôpital Fondation Rothschild, Paris, France.
(368)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(369)Privatpraxis Prof. Jonas und Dr. Panda-Jonas, Heidelberg, Germany.
(370)L V Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, India.
(371)Einthoven Laboratory for Experimental Vascular Medicine, LUMC, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(372)Netherlands Heart Institute, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(373)Department of Clinical Physiology, Tampere University Hospital, Tampere, 
Finland.
(374)Department of Clinical Physiology, Finnish Cardiovascular Research Center - 
Tampere, Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, Tampere University, Tampere, 
Finland.
(375)Laboratory of Complex Trait Genomics, Department of Computational Biology 
and Medical Sciences, Graduate School of Frontier Sciences, The University of 
Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(376)Department of Ophthalmology, The Catholic University of Korea Incheon St. 
Mary's Hospital, Incheon, Republic of Korea.
(377)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism, Radcliffe 
Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(378)NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(379)German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), partner site Munich Heart 
Alliance, Munich, Germany.
(380)Verve Therapeutics, Boston, MA, USA.
(381)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(382)Department of Urology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.
(383)Corneal Dystrophy Research Institute, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(384)Saevit Eye Hospital, Goyang-si, Republic of Korea.
(385)Department of Biochemistry, College of Medicine, Ewha Womans University, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(386)Department of Cardiology, University Heart and Vascular Center UKE Hamburg, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(387)Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, College of Medical and Dental 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(388)German Center for Cardiovascular Research, Partner Site, 
Hamburg/Kiel/Lübeck, Germany.
(389)Atrial Fibrillation NETwork, Münster, Germany.
(390)UCL Brain Sciences, University College London, London, UK.
(391)Clinicum, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(392)Healthy Longevity Translational Research Programme, Yong Loo Lin School of 
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(393)Department of Medicine, University of Helsinki, Helsinki University 
Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(394)Minerva Foundation Institute for Medical Research, Helsinki, Finland.
(395)First Department of Propaedeutic Internal Medicine, Medical School, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Laiko General Hospital, Athens, 
Greece.
(396)MRC-PHE Centre for Environment and Health, Imperial College London, London, 
UK.
(397)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(398)Medical Department III - Endocrinology, Nephrology, Rheumatology, Leipzig 
University Medical Center, Leipzig, Germany.
(399)Institute for Social and Economic Research, University of Essex, Wivenhoe 
Park, UK.
(400)Institute of Clinical Medicine, Internal Medicine, University of Eastern 
Finland and Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.
(401)Department of Medicine, University of Colorado at Denver, Aurora, CO, USA.
(402)Berlin Institute of Health at Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(403)Precision Healthcare University Research Institute, Queen Mary University 
of London, London, UK.
(404)Department of Internal Medicine, Ewha Womans University School of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(405)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Peking University Health 
Science Center, Beijing, China.
(406)Peking University Center for Public Health and Epidemic Preparedness & 
Response, Beijing, China.
(407)Institute of Epidemiology and Biobank Popgen, Kiel University, Kiel, 
Germany.
(408)Key Laboratory of Systems Health Science of Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou 
Institute for Advanced Study, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Hangzhou, China.
(409)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(410)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine and Abboud Cardiovascular Research 
Center, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(411)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(412)Division of Cardiology, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(413)Department of Medicine, Internal Medicine, Lausanne University Hospital, 
Lausanne, Switzerland.
(414)University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(415)SYNLAB Academy, SYNLAB Holding Deutschland GmbH, Mannheim, Germany.
(416)Clinical Institute of Medical and Chemical Laboratory Diagnostics, Medical 
University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(417)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Duke University School of 
Medicine, Durham, NC, USA.
(418)Duke Molecular Physiology Institute, Duke University School of Medicine, 
Durham, NC, USA.
(419)Psychiatric Genetics, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.
(420)Geriatric Medicine, Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, University 
of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(421)Centre for Vision Research and Department of Ophthalmology, Westmead 
Millennium Institute of Medical Research, University of Sydney, Sydney, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(422)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(423)Usher Institute of Population Health Sciences and Informatics, University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(424)Data Tecnica, Washington, DC, USA.
(425)Electrophysiology Section, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Perelman 
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(426)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA.
(427)Department of Chronic Diseases, Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, 
Norway.
(428)Department of Pain Management and Research, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, 
Norway.
(429)Department of Cardiology, Finnish Cardiovascular Research Center - Tampere, 
Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology Tampere University, Tampere, Finland.
(430)Institute of Human Genetics, School of Medicine & University Hospital Bonn, 
Bonn, Germany.
(431)Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, 
Nigeria.
(432)Department of Drug Treatment, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(433)Laboratorio de Inmunogenómica y Enfermedades Metabólicas, Instituto 
Nacional de Medicina Genómica, CDMX, Mexico City, Mexico.
(434)Paavo Nurmi Centre and Unit for Health and Physical Activity, University of 
Turku, Turku, Finland.
(435)Institute for Precision Health, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(436)Pat MacPherson Centre for Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics, Division 
of Population Health and Genomics, School of Medicine, University of Dundee, 
Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee, UK.
(437)Centre Nutrition, santé et société (NUTRISS), Institute of Nutrition and 
Functional Foods, Université Laval, Québec, QC, Canada.
(438)Institute of Epidemiology, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research 
Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(439)Institute for Medical Information Processing, Biometry and Epidemiology, 
Medical Faculty, Ludwig Maximilians Universität München, Munich, Germany.
(440)Population, Policy and Practice, UCL Great Ormond Street Hospital Institute 
of Child Health, London, UK.
(441)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(442)Department of Health Systems and Population Health, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(443)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(444)Department of Clinical Physiology and Nuclear Medicine, Turku University 
Hospital, Turku, Finland.
(445)InFLAMES Research Flagship, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(446)Second Department of Cardiology, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, University General Hospital Attikon, Athens, Greece.
(447)Center for Biostatistics and Data Science, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(448)Genetics, Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., Kenilworth, NJ, USA.
(449)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Kyung Hee University School of 
Medicine, Dongdaemun-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(450)Department of Public Health, Clinicum, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(451)Departments of Medicine, Pharmacology, and Biomedical Informatics, 
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(452)Center for Cohort Studies, Total Healthcare Center, Kangbuk Samsung 
Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(453)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Kangbuk Samsung 
Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(454)Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences Academic Clinical Program (Eye ACP), 
Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore, Singapore.
(455)Department of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(456)Department of Cardiology and Department of Medicine, Columbia University, 
Columbia, NY, USA.
(457)Department of Pediatrics, Section of Genetics, College of Medicine, 
University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(458)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Oklahoma Health 
Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(459)Department of Physiology, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(460)Oklahoma Center for Neuroscience, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences 
Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(461)Institute of Cardiovascular and Medical Sciences, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow, UK.
(462)Gottfried Schatz Research Center (for Cell Signaling, Metabolism and 
Aging), Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(463)Institute of Nutritional Science, University of Potsdam, Nuthetal, Germany.
(464)Deutsches Herzzentrum München, Cardiology, Deutsches Zentrum für Herz- und 
Kreislaufforschung (DZHK) - Munich Heart Alliance and Technische Universität 
München, München, Germany.
(465)School of Biomedical Science and Pharmacy, University of Newcastle, 
Callaghan, New South Wales, Australia.
(466)Institute of Molecular and Genomic Medicine, National Health Research 
Institutes, Zhunan, Taiwan.
(467)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
TN, USA.
(468)Department of Social Medicine, Population and Public Health, School of 
Medicine, University of California, Riverside, Riverside, CA, USA.
(469)Department of Medicine I, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, Germany.
(470)Department of Cardiology, Clinical Sciences, Lund University and Skåne 
University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.
(471)The Wallenberg Laboratory/Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, 
Institute of Medicine, Gothenburg University and the Department of Cardiology, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(472)Wallenberg Center for Molecular Medicine and Lund University Diabetes 
Center, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(473)Population Health Research Institute, St. George's University of London, 
London, UK.
(474)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore and 
National University Health System, Singapore, Singapore.
(475)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(476)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Université de Montréal, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(477)Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(478)Helsinki University Central Hospital, Research Program for Clinical and 
Molecular Metabolism, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(479)Folkhälsan Research Center, Helsinki, Finland.
(480)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(481)Diabetes Research Group, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(482)Unidad de Biología Molecular y Medicina Genómica, Instituto de 
Investigaciones Biomédicas, UNAM, Mexico City, Mexico.
(483)Milken Institute School of Public Health, The George Washington University, 
Washington, DC, USA.
(484)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Amsterdam Public Health, Amsterdam UMC, 
location University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(485)Department of Epidemiology and Data Science, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(486)School of Nutrition, Faculty of Agricultural and Food Sciences, Université 
Laval, Québec, QC, Canada.
(487)Interfaculty Institute for Genetics and Functional Genomics, University 
Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(488)Institute for Community Medicine, University Medicine Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany.
(489)Unidad de Investigación Médica en Epidemiología Clínica, Hospital de 
Especialidades, Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro 
Social, Mexico City, Mexico.
(490)Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(491)Hero DMC Heart Institute, Dayanand Medical College, Ludhiana, India.
(492)Department of Population and Public Health Sciences, Keck School of 
Medicine of USC, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(493)Department of Physiology & Neuroscience, Keck School of Medicine of USC, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(494)USC Diabetes and Obesity Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine of 
USC, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(495)Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(496)School of Clinical Medicine, Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital, Tsinghua 
Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(497)Diabetes Unit, KEM Hospital and Research Centre, Pune, India.
(498)School of Life Sciences, Westlake University, Hangzhou, China.
(499)Westlake Laboratory of Life Sciences and Biomedicine, Hangzhou, China.
(500)Kurume University School of Medicine, Kurume, Japan.
(501)Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention Program, UPMC Hillman Cancer Center, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(502)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(503)Technical University of Munich and Klinikum Rechts der Isar, TUM School of 
Medicine and Health, Munich, Germany.
(504)Institute of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway.
(505)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(506)Center for Precision Medicine, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(507)Division of Genetic Medicine, Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(508)Department of Medicine, Veterans Affairs Boston Healthcare System, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(509)Institute for Research and Medical Consultations, Imam Abdulrahman Bin 
Faisal University, Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(510)Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, Centre Medical 
Universitaire, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(511)McDonnell Genome Institute and Department of Medicine, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(512)Laboratory for Systems Genetics, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical 
Sciences, Yokohama, Japan.
(513)Department of Genome Informatics, Graduate School of Medicine, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(514)Laboratory of Statistical Immunology, Immunology Frontier Research Center 
(WPI-IFReC), Osaka, Japan.
(515)Department of Human Genetics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(516)MRC/UVRI and LSHTM Uganda Research Unit, Entebbe, Uganda.
(517)Department of Allied Health Sciences, University of Connecticut, Storrs, 
CT, USA.
(518)Departments of Pediatrics and Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(519)The Charles Bronfman Institute for Personalized Medicine, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. ruth.loos@sund.ku.dk.
(520)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of 
Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
ruth.loos@sund.ku.dk.
(521)Department of Environmental Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA. ruth.loos@sund.ku.dk.
(522)The Mindich Child Health and Development Institute, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. ruth.loos@sund.ku.dk.

Polygenic scores (PGSs) for body mass index (BMI) may guide early prevention and 
targeted treatment of obesity. Using genetic data from up to 5.1 million people 
(4.6% African ancestry, 14.4% American ancestry, 8.4% East Asian ancestry, 71.1% 
European ancestry and 1.5% South Asian ancestry) from the GIANT consortium and 
23andMe, Inc., we developed ancestry-specific and multi-ancestry PGSs. The 
multi-ancestry score explained 17.6% of BMI variation among UK Biobank 
participants of European ancestry. For other populations, this ranged from 16% 
in East Asian-Americans to 2.2% in rural Ugandans. In the ALSPAC study, children 
with higher PGSs showed accelerated BMI gain from age 2.5 years to adolescence, 
with earlier adiposity rebound. Adding the PGS to predictors available at birth 
nearly doubled explained variance for BMI from age 5 onward (for example, from 
11% to 21% at age 8). Up to age 5, adding the PGS to early-life BMI improved 
prediction of BMI at age 18 (for example, from 22% to 35% at age 5). Higher PGSs 
were associated with greater adult weight gain. In intensive lifestyle 
intervention trials, individuals with higher PGSs lost modestly more weight in 
the first year (0.55 kg per s.d.) but were more likely to regain it. Overall, 
these data show that PGSs have the potential to improve obesity prediction, 
particularly when implemented early in life.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03827-z
PMCID: PMC12443623
PMID: 40691366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The views expressed in this 
article are those of the author(s) and not necessarily those of the NHS, the 
NIHR or the Department of Health. M.I.McC. (since June 2019) and A.Mah (since 
January 2020) are employees of Genentech and holders of Roche stock. Yu.J., 
Ji.S. and Ad.A. are employed by and hold stock or stock options in 23andMe, Inc. 
S.W.v.d.L. has received Roche funding for unrelated work. M.J.Ca. is Chief 
Scientist for Genomics England, a UK Government company. P.S. has received 
research awards from Pfizer, Inc. D.H. is currently employed at Bristol Myers 
Squibb. G.C.-P. is an employee of 23andMe, Inc. Since completing the work 
contributed to this paper, D.J.T. has left the University of Cambridge and is 
now employed by Genomics plc. I.N. is an employee and stock owner of Gilead 
Sciences; this work was conducted before employment by Gilead Sciences. P.Ki. 
received research support for basic, translational and clinical research 
projects from the German Research Foundation (DFG), the European Union, the 
British Heart Foundation, the Leducq Foundation, the Else-Kröner-Fresenius 
Foundation, the Dutch Heart Foundation (DHF), the Accelerating Clinical Trials 
funding stream in Canada, the Medical Research Council (UK) and the German 
Center for Cardiovascular Research and from several drug and device companies 
active in atrial fibrillation and has received honoraria from several such 
companies in the past but not in the last 5 years. P.Ki. is listed as inventor 
on two issued patents held by the University of Hamburg (Atrial Fibrillation 
Therapy WO 2015140571 and Markers for Atrial Fibrillation WO 2016012783). M.R. 
received consultancy fees from Bayer (OCEANIC-AF national PI) and InCarda 
Therapeutics (RESTORE-SR national PI) to the institution, unrelated to this 
research/dataset. M.J.Cu. has served on advisory boards or consulted for Boston 
Scientific, Biosense Webster, Janssen Scientific Affairs and Johnson & Johnson. 
R.J.F.L. has acted as a member of advisory boards and as a speaker for Eli Lilly 
and the Novo Nordisk Foundation, for which she has received fees. S.N. is a 
scientific advisor to Circle software, ADAS software, CardioSolv and ImriCor and 
receives grant support from Biosense Webster, ADAS software and ImriCor. S.A.Lu. 
is an employee of Novartis. S.A.Lu. received sponsored research support from 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Pfizer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Fitbit, Medtronic, Premier 
and IBM and has consulted for Bristol Myers Squibb, Pfizer, Blackstone Life 
Sciences and Invitae. P.T.E. receives sponsored research support from Bayer AG, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Pfizer and Novo Nordisk; he has also served on advisory 
boards or consulted for Bayer AG. Her.S. has received honoraria for consulting 
from AstraZeneca, MSD/Merck, Daiichi, Servier, Amgen and Takeda Pharma. He has 
additionally received honoraria for lectures and/or chairs from AstraZeneca, 
BayerVital, BRAHMS, Daiichi, Medtronic, Novartis, Sanofi and Servier. S.E.G. is 
employed by Regeneron. C.J.W. is employed by Regeneron. B.M.P. serves on the 
Steering Committee of the Yale Open Data Access Project funded by Johnson & 
Johnson. K.S. is employed by deCODE Genetics/Amgen, Inc. Va.S. is employed by 
deCODE Genetics/Amgen, Inc. G.T. is employed by deCODE Genetics/Amgen, Inc. U.T. 
is employed by deCODE Genetics/Amgen, Inc. E.Ba. is an employee of Empirico, 
Inc. Al.K. declares having received research grants through his affiliation from 
Novo Nordisk and Pharmaserve Lilly and consulting honoraria from Pharmaserve 
Lilly, Sanofi-Aventis, Novo Nordisk, MSD, AstraZeneca, ELPEN Pharma, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Galenica Pharma, Epsilon Health and Winmedica. J.N.H. holds equity in 
Camp4 Therapeutics. A.E.L. is currently employed by and holds stock in Regeneron 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. G.R.A. is an employee of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and 
owns stock and stock options in Regeneron Pharmaceuticals. A.Pa. is currently 
employed by and holds stock in Regeneron Pharmaceuticals. O.G. is an employee 
and stock owner of UCB Pharma; this work was conducted before employment by UCB. 
N.G. is currently employed at Novo Nordisk A/S. M.E.K. is employed by SYNLAB 
Holding Deutschland GmbH. W.M. reports grants and personal fees from AMGEN, 
BASF, Sanofi, Siemens Diagnostics, Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Danone 
Research, Numares, Pfizer and Hoffmann-La Roche; personal fees from MSD and 
Alexion; and grants from Abbott Diagnostics, all outside the submitted work. 
W.M. is employed by Synlab Holding Deutschland GmbH. C.J.O. is a current 
employee of Novartis Biomedical Research. S.M.D. receives research support from 
RenalytixAI and in-kind research support from Novo Nordisk, outside the scope of 
the current research. Ca.S. is currently employed by and holds stock in 
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals. J.C.F. received speaking honoraria from AstraZeneca, 
Merck and Novo Nordisk for talks over which he had full control of content and a 
consulting honorarium from AstraZeneca. H.L.L. receives support from a 
consulting contract between Data Tecnica International and the National 
Institute on Aging (NIA), National Institutes of Health (NIH). M.A.N. receives 
support from a consulting contract between Data Tecnica and the NIA, NIH. T.D.S. 
is a co-founder and shareholder of ZOE, Ltd. P.R.H.J.T. is a salaried employee 
of BioAge Labs, Inc. A.I.d.H. is currently an employee of AbbVie. The remaining 
authors declare no competing interests.


49. Int Immunopharmacol. 2025 Oct 10;163:115251. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115251.  Epub 2025 Jul 19.

Vilazodone ameliorates senescence-related Alzheimer's disease like symptoms by 
targeting Plau to induce autophagy in senescent cells.

Sun W(1), Sheng X(1), Li R(1), Li P(1), Lin H(2), Gong Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Functional Substance of Chinese Medicine, 
Department of Biopharmaceutics and Food Science, Nanjing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(2)The State Key Lab of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences, 
Nanjing University, Nanjing, China. Electronic address: 
dg20300076@smail.nju.edu.cn.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Functional Substance of Chinese Medicine, 
Department of Biopharmaceutics and Food Science, Nanjing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Nanjing, China. Electronic address: ygong@njucm.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative disease, has been linked to 
cellular senescence. Elimination of senescent cells through pharmacological and 
genetic could enhance memory performance of patient with AD. Despite extensive 
research, its complexity remains a significant challenge, leaving us without an 
effective remedy so far. In this study, by utilizing adeno-associated virus, we 
successfully suppressed the expression of Plau in mice with AD, providing 
further evidence for its significant contribution to the initiation and 
progression of this neurodegenerative disorder. Mechanistically, the activation 
of Cox-2 expression by Plau leads to the induction of senescence in neuronal 
cells. By specifically targeting the Plau in senescent cells, vilazodone, a 
novel inhibitor of Plau, can effectively trigger autophagy in these senescence 
cells and thereby eliminate them from the system. Additional in vivo studies 
demonstrated the potential of vilazodone to enhance cognitive function and 
memory in mice with AD, suggesting its therapeutic efficacy for treating AD. The 
results indicate that focusing on Plau may offer a hopeful approach for treating 
AD. Additionally, exploring the ability to inhibit Plau and alter the structure 
of vilazodone could provide valuable knowledge for developing drugs aimed at 
targeting Plau in AD-related conditions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115251
PMID: 40690806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


50. JMIR Res Protoc. 2025 Jul 21;14:e69303. doi: 10.2196/69303.

Co-Designed Mobile-Based Cognitive Training for Older Chinese Americans: 
Protocol for a Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial Assessing Feasibility and 
Acceptability.

Xue T(1), Wei AA(2)(3), Wu B(4), Sanders C(2), McConnell ES(2), Xu H(5).

Author information:
(1)Elaine Marieb College of Nursing, University of Massachusetts Amherst, 
Amherst, MA, United States.
(2)School of Nursing, Duke University, Durham, NC, United States.
(3)Chinese-American Friendship Association of North Carolina, Cary, NC, United 
States.
(4)Rory Meyers College of Nursing, New York University, New York, NY, United 
States.
(5)Duke University, Durham, United States.

BACKGROUND: Older Chinese Americans are at high risk of dementia, yet they often 
do not access culturally relevant services/programs to reduce their risks due to 
issues such as language barriers and transportation. BrainHQ is a mobile-based, 
effective cognitive training program that can potentially address these barriers 
and delay cognitive decline in older Chinese Americans.
OBJECTIVE: We aim to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of a 
mobile-based cognitive training intervention co-designed by older Chinese 
Americans and their adult children.
METHODS: We applied an experience-based co-design approach that leverages 
existing cognitive training features and older Chinese Americans' prior 
knowledge, lived experiences, and social norms around dementia to co-develop a 
cognitive training intervention. We conducted an experience-based co-design 
workshop with Older Chinese Americans (n=10), and their adult children (n=4) to 
optimize the cultural and linguistic relevance of the cognitive training 
intervention. Participants used a journey map to brainstorm challenges they may 
experience when participating in the intervention. Then, the participants 
created prototypes of intervention components to address these challenges. 
Finally, we incorporated these prototypes into the co-designed intervention 
protocol. A total of 30 participants will be recruited into the intervention 
study and will be randomly assigned to the intervention or waitlist control 
group (2:1 ratio). The intervention group will complete the mobile-based 
cognitive training for between 10 and 15 minutes daily for 12 weeks. The primary 
outcomes are feasibility and acceptability. Global cognition, mental health, 
physical functioning, and quality of life will be assessed at baseline, 8, and 
12 weeks.
RESULTS: This pilot trial received institutional review board approval 
(Pro00109934l) in November 2024. We enrolled the first participant in December 
2024 and aim to complete enrollment by May 2025. We expect to complete all data 
collection by September 2025. We will analyze the data and report study findings 
by February 2026.
CONCLUSIONS: This study leverages partnerships with academic, industry, and 
community stakeholders and provides the groundwork for a large-scale randomized 
controlled trial to test the efficacy of a mobile-based cognitive training 
intervention for older Chinese Americans. The co-design workshop served as a 
feasible, innovative approach to engage with the participants and improve the 
study design. These findings will enhance the culturally tailored delivery of 
cognitive training to older Chinese Americans and provide insights for broader 
implementation, improving their engagement in dementia research.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT05355870; 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05355870.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): PRR1-10.2196/69303.

©Tingzhong Xue, Aybey Amy Wei, Bei Wu, Camilla Sanders, Eleanor Schildwachter 
McConnell, Hanzhang Xu. Originally published in JMIR Research Protocols 
(https://www.researchprotocols.org), 21.07.2025.

DOI: 10.2196/69303
PMCID: PMC12322612
PMID: 40690756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


51. Stat Med. 2025 Jul;44(15-17):e70177. doi: 10.1002/sim.70177.

Design and Analysis of N-Of-1 Trials That Incorporate Sequential Monitoring.

Jiang S(1), Arnold SE(2), Betensky RA(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(2)Massachusetts Interdisciplinary Brain Center, Department of Neurology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, New York University School of Global Public 
Health, New York, New York, USA.

For many diseases and disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, patients 
demonstrate considerable heterogeneity in their responses to treatment 
interventions. One treatment may be most effective for some patients, while 
another may be most effective for others, and neither may be effective for 
another subset of patients. This potentially renders the conventional parallel 
group design highly inefficient. An attractive alternative is the N-of-1 design, 
also called the multi-crossover randomized controlled trial. In this design, 
each participant serves as their own control in a series of randomized blocks of 
treatment assignments. We propose novel designs for both the single-person and 
multi-person N-of-1 trials that employ sequential monitoring. In particular, we 
allow for early stopping for a single participant as soon as there is sufficient 
evidence of a preferred treatment for them, and early stopping for the group of 
participants as soon as there is sufficient evidence of a preferred treatment 
for the population of patients. We provide sample size calculations and decision 
rules for terminating the trial early and illustrate their properties in 
simulation studies. We apply our proposed methods to N-of-1 studies of brain 
tumor excisions and of methylphenidate in mild cognitive impairment.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.70177
PMID: 40690192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Geroscience. 2025 Jul 21. doi: 10.1007/s11357-025-01805-4. Online ahead of 
print.

Advancing clinical trial readiness in white matter disease and related 
dementias: key steps for future research progress.

Sompol P(1)(2), Jicha GA(3), Hinman JD(4), Brickman AM(5), Greenberg SM(6), 
Arfanakis K(7)(8), Buckwalter MS(9), Llorente IL(10), Williamson JD(11), Wolf 
MS(12), Smith EE(13), Gupta A(14), Flanagan ME(15), Vazquez MA(16), Burns 
JM(17), Carmichael ST(4), Barone FC(18).

Author information:
(1)Sanders-Brown Center On Aging, University of Kentucky College of Medicine, 
Lexington, KY, 40536, USA. psomp3@uky.edu.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Nutritional Sciences, University of Kentucky 
College of Medicine, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA. psomp3@uky.edu.
(3)Sanders-Brown Center On Aging, University of Kentucky College of Medicine, 
Lexington, KY, 40536, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California Los Angles, Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(5)Taub Institute for Research On Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY, 10032, USA.
(6)Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 02115, 
USA.
(7)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Illinois Institute of Technology, 
Chicago, IL, 60612, USA.
(8)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, 
60612, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology, Stanford School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA, 94304, 
USA.
(10)Department of Neurosurgery, Stanford School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA, 
94304, USA.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston Salem, NC, 27101, USA.
(12)Department of Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, 60611, USA.
(13)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, 
Canada.
(14)Department of Internal Medicine and Neurology, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA.
(15)Biggs Institute, University of Texas Health Center at San Antonio, San 
Antonio, TX, 78229, USA.
(16)Department of Internal Medicine and Neurology, University of Texas 
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, 75390, USA.
(17)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Kansas School of 
Medicine, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA.
(18)Department of Neurology, Downstate Health Sciences University, Brooklyn, NY, 
11203, USA. frank.barone@downstate.edu.

White matter disease, a broad-spectrum term that covers various types of white 
matter lesions and degeneration, is strongly related to age-related 
neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD), and vascular 
contributions to cognitive impairment and dementia (VCID) and Alzheimer's 
related dementias (ADRD). There is no specific treatment for white matter 
disease. Therefore, basic research and clinical studies are essential for future 
outcomes. Since its formation in 2020, the Albert Research Institute for White 
Matter and Cognition (ARIWMC) mission has been to support white matter research 
by providing a forum for communication where basic and clinical scientists meet 
to discuss and debate new knowledge and guidelines for studying white matter in 
dementia. The 4th annual ARIWMC workshop was held on May 31-June 2, 2023, where 
researchers met to set strategies for clinical trial readiness. Significant 
discussion by participants advocated research on multiple levels, including 
molecular, cellular, metabolic, behavioral, and risk factors that contribute to 
disease etiology and regeneration processes. Moreover, participants also 
addressed identifying and validating biomarkers and functional studies in animal 
models and human trials that are key steps for treatment development. Other 
areas that were discussed included epidemiological studies and pragmatic 
clinical trials where health care researchers and everyday medical practice 
support risk factor management or healthy lifestyle, and prevention trials could 
mitigate the incident of the disease. In summary, this workshop fostered a 
better understanding of how white matter lesions contribute to cognitive 
impairment from bench-to-biomarker-to-bedside-to-translational approaches which 
will facilitate and support the discovery and development of therapies and 
prevention strategies that facilitate a healthy brain and reduce white 
matter-related pathologies associated with and contributing to VCID and ADRD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to American Aging Association.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-025-01805-4
PMID: 40690160

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Ethics approval and consent to participate 
statements can be found in the individual authors’ publications. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


53. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 Jul 21;40(6):242. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01664-0.

Exploration of Imatinib involved in amyloidogenesis as a common foundation for 
type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and Alzheimer's disease (AD).

Mannan A(1), Singh S(1), Mohan M(1), Singh TG(2).

Author information:
(1)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Punjab, 140401, Rajpura, 
India.
(2)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Punjab, 140401, Rajpura, 
India. gurjeet.singh@chitkara.edu.in.

Diabetes patients have reduced basal cognitive abilities like learning, memory, 
and perceptual quickness, as well as a 65 percent higher risk of acquiring AD. 
AD and diabetes share a number of risk factors, including elevated cholesterol, 
Aβ deposition, degeneration, inflammation, oxidative stress, cardiovascular 
diseases, dysmetabolism syndrome, τ-protein phosphorylation, glycogen synthesis 
kinase 3, apoptosis and apolipoprotein E4. This study explores the potential 
inhibitory effects of imatinib at doses of 1 and 5 mg/kg, with a particular 
emphasis on the role of c-Abl in amyloidogenesis, a common mechanism that 
underlies T2DM and AD. Induction of T2DM induced AD by HFD-STZ-Aβ25-35 model. 
Assessment of behavioural parameters like polydipsia, polyphagia, morris water 
maze & passive avoidance test; biochemical estimation of glucose, insulin, 
oxidative stress (SOD, GSH, Cat, TBARS), neuroinflammation (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, 
NF-κβ), Aβ levels, c-Abl through ELISA technique. Imatinib (1 & 5 mg/kg) results 
in a reduction in food and water intake, as well as a reduction in memory 
impairment in the Morris water maze and passive avoidance test. Further, it 
normalises glucose, insulin, and anti-oxidant elements (SOD, GSH, Cat) levels, 
while decreasing TBARS levels. Additionally, ELISA data demonstrated a reduction 
in neuroinflammation (downregulation of IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, and NF-κβ), Aβ 
accumulation, and c-Abl levels by imatinib (1 & 5 mg/kg). Consequently, c-Abl 
can play a crucial role in the mediation of amyloidogenesis induced by T2DM, 
thereby establishing a connection between T2DM and AD. Therefore, Imatinib has 
the potential to treat and prevent the progression of T2DM to AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01664-0
PMID: 40690035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: The animals were 
given a standard pellet diet and free access to water. The experimental animal 
protocol was approved by the Institutional Animal’s Ethics Committee (IAEC) 
(1181/PO/ReRcBi/S/08/CCSEA) of Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara 
University, Punjab, India with protocol No. IAEC/CCP/23/02/PR-19 on 28th 
October, 2023. Consent to participate: Not applicable. Consent to publish: The 
paper is submitted with the consent of all listed authors. Competing interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests.


54. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 4;16:1596728. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1596728. 
eCollection 2025.

Multi-omics reveal the neuroprotective mechanisms of Xinshubao tablet against 
scopolamine-induced cognitive dysfunction in mice.

Yang Z(1)(2), Zhang FR(3), Ren L(4), Bai JM(1), Wang SC(5), Li XY(3), Yang 
HJ(3), Xiao HH(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Liaoning University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Dalian, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Second Affiliated Hospital of Liaoning University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shenyang, China.
(3)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major DisCMCeases, Experimental Research Center, 
China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(4)Mental Disorders Research Laboratory, Liaoning University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Shenyang, China.
(5)5 Fujian Pien Tze Huang Enterprise Key Laboratory of Natural Medicine 
Research and Development, Zhangzhou Pien Tze Huang Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 
Zhangzhou, China.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative 
disorder with limited treatments. Xinshubao tablet (XSB), a traditional Chinese 
medicine, contains several bioactive compounds with notable neuroprotective 
effects. Our previous studies have demonstrated that XSB can alleviate cognitive 
deficits in vascular dementia (VaD) models, suggesting its potential as a 
therapeutic candidate for AD.
METHODS: In this study, scopolamine-induced AD-like mice were orally 
administered with varying doses of XSB (0.13 g/kg, 0.26 g/kg and 0.52 g/kg) for 
28 days. Behavior tests, H&E, Nissl, immunofluorescence staining, and Western 
blot assays were performed to evaluate the neuroprotection of XSB on AD-like 
mice. Then, fecal 16S rDNA sequencing, serum metabolomics, and hippocampal mRNA 
sequencing (mRNA-seq) analysis were performed to investigate the underlying 
mechanisms.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The results revealed that oral administration of XSB 
improved cognitive function, mitigated neuropathological damage, and alleviated 
dysfunction in the cholinergic system in AD-like mice. XSB treatment also 
enhanced gut microbiota diversity, increased the abundance of Enterococcus, 
Actinobacteriota, Coriobacteriales, and Eggerthellaceae, but reduced the 
abundance of Helicobacter rodentium and Lachnospiraceae. Integrating mRNA-seq 
and metabolomics data highlighted key regulatory pathways including the 
biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, tyrosine metabolism, and 
glycerophospholipid metabolism. Furthermore, XSB treatment reduced the 
expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, MPO, enhanced SOD, GSH activities, reduced 
malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, upregulated the expression of BDNF, SYN, PSD95, 
and improved synaptic density. Transformation of XSB derived fecal microbiota 
(XSB-FM) effectively alleviated cognitive dysfunction and intestinal barrier 
injures. In conclusion, XSB may exert its neuroprotective effects via the 
microbiota-metabolite-brain axis, thereby improving neuroinflammation, 
neurotransmission, and synaptic integrity. These findings support the potential 
of XSB as a multifactorial therapeutic strategy for cognitive deficits in AD.

Copyright © 2025 Yang, Zhang, Ren, Bai, Wang, Li, Yang and Xiao.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1596728
PMCID: PMC12271746
PMID: 40689211

Conflict of interest statement: Author S-CW was employed by Zhangzhou Pien Tze 
Huang Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. The remaining authors declare that the research 
was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that 
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


55. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 4;16:1572771. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1572771. 
eCollection 2025.

Intranasal administration of Ganoderma lucidum-derived exosome-like nanovesicles 
ameliorates cognitive impairment by reducing inflammation in a mouse model of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Mi X(1)(2), Ruan X(3), Lin R(4), Huang S(5), Cai P(5), Chen X(2)(3), Liao J(6), 
Dai X(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Public Technology Service Center, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(2)Fujian Key Laboratory of Molecular Neurology, Institute of Neuroscience, 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(3)Department of Neurology and Geriatrics, Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, 
Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, China.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(5)School of Public Health, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, China.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Although Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent 
dementia in late life, with amyloid beta (Aβ) deposition and neuroinflammation 
are recognized among its primary pathological features. Currently, there is 
currently still a lack of effective therapeutic drugs for AD. Ganoderma lucidum 
(G. lucidum) is abundant in active ingredients that harbor anti-inflammatory 
properties in both central nervous system and the periphery. We attempted to 
determine whether G. lucidum contained exosome-like nanovesicles (GLENVs) and 
whether these GLENVs can alleviate cognitive impairment.
METHODS: We extracted GLENVs by the differential ultracentrifugation method and 
identified the components by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). 
The 5×FAD mice underwent a 3-month intranasal administration of GLENVs and their 
behavioral and pathological changes were evaluated.
RESULTS: GLENVs were successfully extracted and identified to contain multiple 
ganoderic acids; intranasal administration allowed GLENVs to penetrate the 
blood-brain barrier to exert their effects directly. The 3-month GLENVs 
treatment effectively ameliorated the impairment in the memory and learning of 
the 5×FAD mice. The GLENVs treatment also reduced Aβ deposition in the cortex 
and hippocampus of 5×FAD mice, overactivated microglia, reactive astrocytes, and 
pro-inflammatory factors, and inhibited the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal 
transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling pathway. Moreover, 
GLENVs exerted no adverse effects on liver and kidney function.
CONCLUSION: GLENVs may be a promising candidate for AD treatment.

Copyright © 2025 Mi, Ruan, Lin, Huang, Cai, Chen, Liao and Dai.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1572771
PMCID: PMC12271231
PMID: 40689203

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


56. Biomark Neuropsychiatry. 2025 Jun;12:100120. doi:
10.1016/j.bionps.2025.100120.  Epub 2025 Jan 28.

Developing non-invasive molecular markers for early risk assessment of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Sur TK(1), Mondal T(1), Noreen Z(2), Johnson J(1), Nunlee-Bland G(3), Loffredo 
CA(4), Korba BE(5), Chandra V(6), Jana SS(7), Kwabi-Addo B(8), Sarkar S(9), 
Ghosh S(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Howard University, Washington, DC 20059, USA.
(2)Department of Healthcare Biotechnology, National University of Sciences and 
Technology (NUST), Islamabad 44000, Pakistan.
(3)Departments of Pediatrics and Child Health, College of Medicine, Howard 
University, Washington, DC 20059, USA.
(4)Department of Oncology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC 20057, USA.
(5)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, Georgetown University, Washington, 
DC 20057, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Primus Hospital, New Delhi 110021, India.
(7)Laboratory of Molecular & Cellular Biology (LMCB), Indian Association for the 
Cultivation of Science, Kolkata 700032, India.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, College of Medicine, Howard University, 
Washington, DC 20059, USA.
(9)Division of Neurotoxicology, National Center for Toxicological Research, 
US-FDA, Jefferson, AR 72079, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a heterogeneous neurodegenerative disease, with no 
standard biomarker(s) to detect or confirm its risk at an early stage. The 
prevalence of AD increases exponentially worldwide in people of ages over 65 and 
older. Current improvements have unveiled the disease's pathophysiology and 
clinical diagnostic tests, targeting the neurological changes 
(neurodegeneration, amyloid precursor protein metabolism and tangle pathology) 
with precise PET/MRI imaging and xMAP/SIMOA (Multiplex simultaneous 
detection/single molecule array) to identify and quantify β-amyloids (Aβ40, 
Aβ42), total tau (T-tau) and phosphorylated tau (P-tau) proteins in the brain 
and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients. However, their utility for diagnosis 
in routine clinical practice is still challenging because of cost, 
accessibility, standardization, procedural limitation, and regulatory approval. 
Further research is needed to establish affordable, patient-friendly, easy, 
quick, and robust biomarkers for early AD detection, progression, and 
therapeutic management. Research on blood-based preclinical diagnosis and 
clinical practice for AD has advanced significantly in the last decade. Emerging 
literature supports the importance of new molecular biomarkers and signature 
genes from blood to detect and predict AD in advance. This review examines the 
potential applications of these blood-based target biomarkers for early disease 
detection, co-morbid condition risk prediction, and treatment management of AD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bionps.2025.100120
PMCID: PMC12276858
PMID: 40688757

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


57. Mater Today Bio. 2025 Jul 9;33:102064. doi: 10.1016/j.mtbio.2025.102064. 
eCollection 2025 Aug.

Biological applications of graphene-based nanomaterials in neurodegenerative 
diseases.

Zhu RK(1), Shi J(1), Zhou HJ(1), Ge L(1), Yin WH(1), Zeng H(2), Wang XW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Yangpu Hospital, School of Medicine, Tongji 
University, Shanghai, 200090, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Yangpu Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shanghai, 200090, China.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) have become a major challenge in global public 
health due to neurotoxicity caused by progressive neuronal degeneration and 
abnormal protein aggregation, which has attracted widespread attention. 
Graphene-based nanomaterials provide innovative solutions for the early 
diagnosis and precise treatment of NDDs by virtue of their ultra-high 
conductivity, large specific surface area and multifunctional properties. In 
this paper, we systematically discuss the key applications of these materials in 
the diagnosis and treatment of NDDs, and deeply analyze the technological 
breakthroughs and clinical translation challenges. The core of this paper is to 
illustrate that graphene-based nanomaterials are expected to reshape the 
paradigm of NDDs diagnosis and treatment through cross-scale technological 
innovations, promoting the synergistic development of early diagnosis, 
personalized treatment and real-time monitoring, and providing a transformative 
strategy for overcoming NDDs.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mtbio.2025.102064
PMCID: PMC12275944
PMID: 40688669

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


58. Digit Health. 2025 Jul 17;11:20552076251362098. doi:
10.1177/20552076251362098.  eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

Emerging trends in Alzheimer's disease diagnosis and prediction using artificial 
intelligence: A bibliometric analysis of the top cited 100 articles.

Zhang G(1), Zhao W(1), Lv S(1), Wang Z(2), Yi Y(1), Ma H(1), Lu Y(1), Yan W(3), 
Teng J(1).

Author information:
(1)First Clinical Medical College, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Jinan, China.
(2)College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shandong University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Jinan, China.
(3)Affiliated Hospital of Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Jinan, China.

BACKGROUND: AD is a significant public health challenge, and AI technologies, 
including deep learning and machine learning, offer the potential to 
dramatically improve diagnostic and predictive accuracy. These technologies are 
widely applied in AD research. However, comprehensive literature summaries of 
this field remain limited. This study uses bibliometric analysis to examine 
research hotspots, trends, future development potential, and limitations in 
AI-based AD diagnosis and prediction.
METHODS: We conducted a bibliometric analysis of 100 top cited studies on 
AI-based diagnosis and prediction of AD, using data from the WoSCC. We performed 
the analysis using CiteSpace 6.3.R2, VOSviewer 1.6.19, Scimago Graphica 1.0.39, 
Microsoft Excel 2021, and R package Bibliometrix running in RStudio, visualizing 
the results through graphical representations.
RESULTS: It was found that the top cited 100 articles came from 51 journals and 
31 countries. The journal with both the highest number of published articles and 
the greatest citation frequency was NEUROIMAGE, while PROTEIN ENGINEERING DESIGN 
& SELECTION boasted the highest average citation rate. The country with the 
largest volume of published articles was the United States, followed by China 
and the United Kingdom. In terms of institutions, the University of North 
Carolina had produced the most publications. The keywords identified fall into 9 
categories. The most frequently occurring keywords are "Alzheimers disease", 
"mild cognitive impairment", "classification", "MRI", "deep learning", 
"diagnosis", "dementia", "biomarkers", "brain atrophy", "machine learning", 
"voxel based morphometry", "prediction", and "patterns".
CONCLUSION: AI-based technologies for AD diagnosis and prediction are becoming 
indispensable clinical tools. Future research should leverage AI to identify 
novel AD biomarkers, enabling precision diagnosis and treatment. However, our 
bibliometric analysis has limitations: language and citation biases may skew 
interpretation of emerging AI-AD trends.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/20552076251362098
PMCID: PMC12276523
PMID: 40688579


59. Biochem Biophys Rep. 2025 Jul 12;43:102150. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2025.102150.
 eCollection 2025 Sep.

Dimethyl-2-oxoglutarate but not antioxidants prevents glucose hypometabolism 
induced neural cell death: implications in the pathogenesis and therapy of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Chauhan A(1), Bhutani K(1), Bir A(2), Singh A(3), Chakrabarti SS(4), Saini 
AK(5), Chakrabarti S(1), Ghosh A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Maharishi Markandeshwar Institute of Medical 
Sciences & Research, Maharishi Markandeshwar (Deemed to be University), Mullana, 
Ambala, Haryana, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Dr B. C. Roy Multi-Speciality Medical Research 
Centre, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, West Bengal, India.
(3)Indian Institute of Technology, Jammu, Jammu & Kashmir, India.
(4)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras 
Hindu University, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(5)Department of Bio-sciences & Technology, MMEC, Maharishi Markandeshwar 
(Deemed to be University), Mullana, Ambala, Haryana, India.

Cerebral glucose hypometabolism is a cardinal molecular signature of Alzheimer's 
disease, and its role in the pathogenesis of this disorder is under intensive 
study in both animal and cell-based models. In the current study, we exposed 
SH-SY5Y cells (human neuroblastoma cell line) over a period of 48 h to DRB18, an 
inhibitor of multiple glucose transporters, in different concentrations to 
develop a state of glucose hypometabolism. Under this metabolic insult, in 
SH-SY5Y cells a profound dose-dependent neural cell death, an increased 
production of reactive oxygen radicals, mitochondrial membrane depolarization 
and a depletion of cellular ATP content were noted; these effects were not 
prevented by lipid-soluble novel antioxidants such as ferrostatin-1 and 
liproxstatin-1 or by a general water-soluble antioxidant like N-acetylcysteine. 
However, dimethyl-2-oxoglutarate, the cell-permeable analogue of 2-oxoglutarate 
(α-ketoglutarate) which can serve as an alternative fuel during glucose 
hypometabolism partially prevented both mitochondrial impairments and neural 
cell death. Thus, dimethyl-2-oxoglutarate may be explored further as a potential 
neuroprotective compound for Alzheimer's disease, and its effect on amyloid beta 
metabolism and homeostasis should be examined under glucose hypometabolic 
stress.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2025.102150
PMCID: PMC12275019
PMID: 40688502

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


60. Clin Pract Epidemiol Ment Health. 2025 Jun 2;21:e17450179376076. doi: 
10.2174/0117450179376076250530074402. eCollection 2025.

Mortality from Alzheimer's Disease and Other Dementias in Ecuador during the 
Period 2012-2022.

Espinoza C(1), Salinas M(1), Morocho A(1), Morales A(2), Verdezoto B(2).

Author information:
(1)Catholic University of Cuenca. Research Group, Health, Science, Innovation 
"ISCI", Cuenca, Ecuador.
(2)Latin American Center for Epidemiological Studies and Social Health, Cuenca, 
Ecuador.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a growing concern worldwide in 
healthcare. In Ecuador, the increasing life expectancy has raised the prevalence 
of age-related diseases, including dementias. The main objective of this study 
was to analyze the mortality from AD and other dementias in Ecuador from 2012 to 
2022.
METHODOLOGY: A retrospective, descriptive time series analysis was conducted on 
adult subjects with AD and other dementias across various geographic regions of 
Ecuador during the 2012-2022 period. A sample of 855,122 individuals registered 
in the databases of the National Institute of Statistics and Censuses (INEC) was 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Out of the total evaluated subjects, 4,836 deaths were due to AD 
(0.56%) and 1,317 deaths from other types of dementia (0.15%). For AD, the 
distribution of deaths by sex showed a predominant trend in women (n=3,008) 
within the group aged 65 years or older (n=4,749). For other dementias, women 
were also the main group (n=766), along with those aged 65 years and older 
(n=1,294). The national mortality rate showed an upward trend during this 
decade, increasing from 2.2 per 100,000 inhabitants in 2012 to 4.86 per 100,000 
inhabitants in 2022.
DISCUSSION: This study reveals a worrying increase in mortality from Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and other dementias in Ecuador between 2012 and 2022, especially 
among women, adults over 65 years of age, and residents of the Sierra region. 
Several factors that could negatively influence cognitive function were 
observed. These findings are consistent with global trends and suggest that 
biological, environmental, and social variables, such as aging, postmenopausal 
hormonal changes, chronic exposure to hypoxic altitude conditions, and unequal 
access to health services, could play a key role in this disease.
CONCLUSION: Mortality from Alzheimer's disease and other dementias in Ecuador 
showed a sustained increase between 2012 and 2022, reflecting a growing burden 
of these pathologies in the population and the urgent need to strengthen 
prevention, early diagnosis, and comprehensive treatment strategies. The 
disproportionate impact on women, adults over 65 years of age, and residents of 
the Sierra region suggests the involvement of various biological, environmental, 
and social determinants of health, which requires more rigorous surveillance and 
a differentiated approach for these particularly vulnerable populations.

© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Bentham Open.

DOI: 10.2174/0117450179376076250530074402
PMCID: PMC12272087
PMID: 40688402

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest, 
financial or otherwise.61. Comput Struct Biotechnol J. 2025 Jul 4;27:2990-3004. doi: 
10.1016/j.csbj.2025.07.003. eCollection 2025.

Biophysical characterization of TREM2 missense variants implicated in 
neurodegenerative disease.

Pillai J(1)(2), Sung K(2), Shi L(3), Wu C(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of California, San Diego, 9301 S 
Scholars Dr, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, Medical 
Teaching Facility, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0624, USA.
(3)Biophotonics Technology Center, Institute of Engineering in Medicine, 
University of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Dr, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.

Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), an immune receptor 
expressed on the surface of microglia, has been identified through genome-wide 
association studies to be one of the risk factors in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Several studies have also identified missense variants of TREM2 to be associated 
with frontotemporal dementia and Nasu-Hakola disease (NHD). To date, 51 novel 
missense variants of TREM2 have been identified in the literature, with the 
disease risk profiles of most variants still unknown. Assessing and classifying 
the pathogenicity of these variants is essential to investigate the disease 
mechanisms and develop effective treatments. Herein, we classified 44 missense 
variants involved in TREM2 using structural bioinformatic data with AlphaFold2. 
Using the protocol described in our previous work [1], we determined the 
structural, stability, and potential functional effects of these variants. Our 
evaluations of the mutations were divided into those (i) implicated in NHD, (ii) 
located on the transmembrane domain, (iii) surface of the IgV-like domain, (iv) 
buried in the receptor, and (v) on low confidence predicted local distance 
difference test residues. Our analysis of variants involved in NHD suggests 
that, while V126G imposes the greatest effects, the T66M variant exerts 
significantly less effects on the TREM2 structures compared to the other 
remaining variants. Variants in the transmembrane domain of TREM2 did not impose 
significant alterations to the three-dimensional structure. Outside of known 
variants in the IgV-like domain, we identified 10 variants that imposed 
significant destabilizing effects to the structure and are of potential 
interest. Overall, the baseline biochemical data provided from this study may be 
informative to experimental efforts to better classify rare coding variants of 
TREM2 that are of unknown biological and clinical significance.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.csbj.2025.07.003
PMCID: PMC12275484
PMID: 40687989

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


62. J Alzheimers Dis Rep. 2025 Jul 17;9:25424823251361056. doi: 
10.1177/25424823251361056. eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

Insulin resistance and Alzheimer's disease: Exploring research hotspots and 
frontiers from a bibliometric and visual analysis (2005-2024).

Zhang Y(1), Lv Y(2), Yang T(3), Liu Q(3), Guo Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Special Services, The 960th Hospital of the PLA Joint Logistics 
Support Force, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(2)Campus Clinic, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 
Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shandong Provincial Hospital 
Affiliated to Shandong First Medical University, Jinan, Shandong, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and insulin resistance (IR) share 
intersecting pathological pathways, with IR increasingly implicated in AD 
pathogenesis. Systematic bibliometric analyses mapping the evolution of this 
interdisciplinary field remain limited.
OBJECTIVE: To quantify global research trends, collaboration networks, knowledge 
structures, and emerging frontiers in IR-AD research from 2005-2024.
METHODS: We analyzed 2676 publications from the Web of Science Core Collection. 
Using VOSviewer, CiteSpace, and bibliometrix R package, we conducted 
quantitative analyses and visualized multiple dimensions including annual 
publications/citations, countries/regions, institutions, journals, authors, 
references, and keywords.
RESULTS: Annual publications grew steadily, peaking at 267 in 2022. The United 
States dominated productivity (942 papers, 35.2%) and citations (88,170). The 
University of Kentucky was the top institution (53 papers), while the Journal of 
Alzheimer's Disease led in output (214 papers) and co-citations (8046). Keyword 
analysis revealed three clusters: metabolic dysregulation, molecular pathology, 
and neuroimmune responses. Emerging frontiers highlight neuroimmune mechanisms, 
with current hotspots focusing on NLRP3 inflammasome activation, gut-brain axis 
dysregulation, glucose transporter impairment, and therapeutic repurposing of 
GLP-1 agonists.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings underscore IR-AD as a critical intersection of 
metabolic and neurodegenerative pathways, advocating for targeted therapies 
addressing neuroinflammation and cerebral metabolism. By delineating global 
trends, this study provides a roadmap for future research to bridge 
translational gaps in AD pathogenesis and treatment.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/25424823251361056
PMCID: PMC12276435
PMID: 40687177

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


63. MedComm (2020). 2025 Jul 17;6(8):e70299. doi: 10.1002/mco2.70299. eCollection
 2025 Aug.

Astrocyte in Neurological Disease: Pathogenesis and Therapy.

Huang M(1), Long A(1), Hao L(1), Shi Z(1), Zhang M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology Xiangya Hospital, Central South University Changsha 
Hunan China.
(2)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disorders Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University Changsha Hunan China.

Astrocytes, as key support cells in the central nervous system, maintain 
homeostasis in the brain through mechanisms such as ionic homeostasis 
regulation, metabolic support, synaptic modulation, and neuroinflammatory 
regulation. Recent studies have shown that astrocyte dysfunction is closely 
related to the pathologic processes of various neurological diseases, such as 
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, and stroke. In 
this review, we comprehensively summarize the dual roles of astrocytes in 
neurological diseases: on one hand, their aberrant activation can exacerbate 
disease progression by mediating neuroinflammation, synaptic dysfunction, and 
blood-brain barrier disruption; on the other hand, their metabolic disorders, 
such as lipid droplet accumulation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and oxidative 
stress imbalance, further drive neurodegeneration. In terms of therapeutic 
strategies, interventions targeting astrocytes, such as modulation of activation 
phenotype, metabolic reprogramming, gene therapy, and innovative therapies based 
on exosomes and nanotechnology, show great promise. In the future, we may 
integrate multi-omics technologies and deepen clinical translational research to 
systematically analyze the spatial heterogeneity of astrocytes and their dynamic 
regulatory networks at different stages of the disease, in order to elucidate 
the precise mechanisms of their roles in the pathological process, and thus 
provide multidimensional theoretical support for the design of targeted 
therapeutic strategies.

© 2025 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical 
Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mco2.70299
PMCID: PMC12271643
PMID: 40686921

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


64. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):170-178. doi: 10.1177/13872877251361058.
Epub  2025 Jul 21.

Moderate coffee and tea consumption is associated with slower cognitive decline.

Rainey-Smith SR(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Sewell KR(1)(6), Brown BM(1)(3)(5), Sohrabi 
HR(3)(4)(7), Martins RN(3)(4)(7), Gardener SL(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Healthy Ageing, Health Futures Institute, Murdoch University, 
Murdoch, Western Australia, Australia.
(2)School of Psychological Science, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(3)Centre of Excellence for Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, School of 
Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(4)Alzheimer's Research Australia, Ralph and Patricia Sarich Neuroscience 
Research Institute, Nedlands, Western Australia, Australia.
(5)Lifestyle Approaches Towards Cognitive Health Research Group, Murdoch 
University, Murdoch, Western Australia, Australia.
(6)AdventHealth Research Institute, Neuroscience, Orlando, FL, USA.
(7)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.

BackgroundGlobally, coffee and tea are consumed extensively, potentially 
providing neuroprotection through anti-inflammatory and antioxidative stress 
effects.ObjectiveThis study aimed to investigate associations between coffee and 
tea intake and cognitive function.MethodsIn a longitudinal prospective cohort 
study, dementia-free (n = 8715; age range 60.0-85.2 years) older adults from the 
UK Biobank self-reported coffee and tea intake over the previous year; 'never', 
'moderate' (1-3 cups/day), or 'high' (≥4 cups/day). Participants completed 
cognitive assessments at ≥2 timepoints (mean of 9.11 years).ResultsThose 'never' 
consuming coffee and 'moderate' coffee consumers (β = 0.06, p = 0.005; β = 0.07, 
p < 0.001, respectively), as well as 'moderate' tea consumers and 'high' tea 
consumers (β = 0.06, p = 0.009; β = 0.06, p = 0.003, respectively) had slower 
fluid intelligence decline. Additionally, those 'never' consuming coffee and 
'moderate' coffee consumers had a slower increase in pairs matching errors 
(β = -0.05, p = 0.022; β = 0.05, p = 0.013) compared to 'high' 
consumers.Conclusions'Moderate' coffee, and 'moderate' and 'high' tea intake may 
be a protective factor against cognitive decline. Randomized controlled trials 
are required to establish causal relationships leading to evidence-based 
recommendations regarding benefits of coffee and tea intake.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251361058
PMCID: PMC12361686
PMID: 40686251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsHRS, and RNM 
report being Directors of SMarT Minds WA, Australia. HRS and RNM have had or are 
receiving personal reimbursements or research support from the Pharmaceutical 
and Nutraceutical companies including Alector, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, CWEK Pty 
Ltd, and Biogen pharmaceuticals. The remaining authors declared no potential 
conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article.


65. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(2):499-514. doi: 10.1177/13872877251361061.
Epub  2025 Sep 1.

Preliminary study of sex-based neural responses and cognitive benefits of a 
40 Hz rhythmic light intervention in mild cognitive impairment.

Alsalman OA(1), Li W(1), Figueiro MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Light and Health Research Center, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY, USA.

BackgroundSex differences in the brain's structure, function, and response to 
interventions are increasingly recognized as critical factors in 
neurodegenerative diseases like mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's 
disease.ObjectiveThis study investigated sex differences in brain activity among 
participants classified as having MCI (based on Montreal Cognitive Assessment 
scores) during exposure to a 40 Hz rhythmic light (RL) intervention versus a 
control RL condition.MethodsTwenty-four participants in the MCI group (mean 
age = 74.5 years, SD = 9.06; 15 women, 9 men) and 16 age-matched healthy 
controls (mean age = 70 years, SD = 8.97; 9 women, 7 men) were exposed to both 
light conditions and underwent electroencephalography recordings, cognitive 
performance testing (2-back task), and a subjective assessment of sleepiness 
(Karolinska Sleepiness Scale).Results40 Hz RL increased gamma power 
significantly, indicating its potential to enhance brain function, especially in 
the MCI group. Men showed greater neural response and better cognitive 
performance under the 40 Hz RL while women (particularly in the MCI group) 
responded more strongly to the control. The sleepiness results were not 
significant.ConclusionsThere is compelling evidence that 40 Hz RL has 
sex-dependent effects on gamma oscillations and cognitive performance, 
particularly in individuals with MCI. Men may benefit more directly from 
gamma-enhancing interventions, whereas women may require alternative approaches 
that account for their unique neural responses to light. Further research with 
larger, more diverse populations is needed to confirm these findings and explore 
the potential for personalized therapeutic strategies based on sex and cognitive 
status.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251361061
PMID: 40686248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


66. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):267-276. doi: 10.1177/13872877251360230.
Epub  2025 Jul 21.

Preliminary longitudinal epigenetic clock analyses of patients with mild 
cognitive impairment through nutritional intervention.

Minami K(1), Shirai T(1), Okazaki S(1), Okada S(1), Miyachi M(1), Otsuka I(1), 
Hishimoto A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, Kobe, 
Japan.

BackgroundMild cognitive impairment (MCI) is an intermediate stage between 
normal aging and dementia. Not a small number of patients with MCI progress to 
Alzheimer's disease within 1 year. Epigenetic changes in DNA methylation, such 
as those observed in the epigenetic clock, are receiving increasing attention in 
the field of aging research. It is crucial to demonstrate the effectiveness of 
interventions for patients with MCI from a biological perspective to promote the 
prevention of dementia.ObjectiveWe conducted epigenetic clock analysis, mainly 
longitudinal evaluation, on patients with MCI who received intervention with 
vitamin D and/or marine omega-3 fatty acid supplements.MethodsWe conducted 
epigenetic clock analyses with public DNA methylation datasets from the Gene 
Expression Omnibus database. This dataset contains two timepoints' longitudinal 
DNA methylation data of 25 patients with MCI and 20 controls. They received 
two-year intervention with vitamin D and/or marine omega-3 fatty acid 
supplements. We conducted comparative analyses with Wilcoxon signed-rank test, 
and regression analyses of three models.ResultsIn patients with MCI, PhenoAge 
and GrimAge significantly decelerated after the intervention in comparative 
analyses. These clocks nominally significantly decelerated also in most of 
regression analyses. Moreover, natural killer cells showed significant 
differences before and after the intervention.ConclusionsWe found deceleration 
of some epigenetic clocks in patients with MCI with interventions. We believe 
that it is crucial to conduct additional epigenetic clock analyses in cohorts 
with larger sample sizes or in cohorts with interventions such as occupational 
therapy and pharmacotherapy are actively conducted.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251360230
PMID: 40686203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


67. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2025 Jun;50(12):3431-3440. doi: 
10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20250306.501.

[Causal effects of chronic kidney disease on Alzheimer's disease and its 
prevention based on "kidney-brain interaction" theory].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen SL(1), Wang ZC(1), Chen GZ(1), Zheng HB(2), Huang SE(3).

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Hospital Affiliated to Fujian University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine Fuzhou 350003, China Key Laboratory of Rehabilitation 
Technology of Fujian Province Fuzhou 350003, China Fujian Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Cognitive Function Rehabilitation Fuzhou 350003, China Fujian 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine Fuzhou 350122, China.
(2)Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine Fuzhou 350122, China.
(3)Rehabilitation Hospital Affiliated to Fujian University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine Fuzhou 350003, China Key Laboratory of Rehabilitation 
Technology of Fujian Province Fuzhou 350003, China Fujian Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Cognitive Function Rehabilitation Fuzhou 350003, China.

Based on the traditional Chinese medicine(TCM) theory of &quot;kidney-brain 
interaction&quot;, a two-sample Mendelian randomization(MR) analysis was 
conducted to investigate the causal effects of chronic kidney disease(CKD) on 
Alzheimer's disease(AD) and analyze the potential mechanisms of kidney-tonifying 
and essence-replenishing TCM to improve AD. From the perspective that CKD is 
closely related to the core pathogenesis of AD, namely &quot;kidney deficiency, 
essence loss, and marrow reduction&quot;, genome-wide association study(GWAS) 
data was used, with the inverse variance weighting(IVW) method as the main 
approach to reveal the causal association between CKD and AD. Sensitivity 
analysis was conducted to evaluate the robustness of the results. To further 
investigate the causal effects of CKD on AD, two different AD datasets were used 
as outcomes, and the urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio(UACR) data was used as 
the exposure for a supplementary analysis. On this basis, the modern scientific 
mechanism of the kidney-tonifying and essence-replenishing method for improving 
AD was further explored. The IVW analysis show that CKD(ieu-b-2: OR=1.084, 
95%CI[1.011, 1.163], P=0.024; ieu-b-5067: OR=1.001, 95%CI[1.000, 1.001], 
P=0.002) and UACR(ieu-b-2: OR=1.247, 95%CI[1.021, 1.522], P=0.031; ieu-b-5067: 
OR=1.001, 95%CI[1.000, 1.003], P=0.015) both have significant causal effects on 
AD in different datasets, with CKD increasing the risk of AD. The sensitivity 
analysis further confirmed the reliability of the results. Genetic studies have 
shown that CKD has a significant causal effect on AD, suggesting that 
controlling CKD is an important intervention measure for preventing and treating 
AD. Therefore, further research on CKD's role in AD is crucial in clinical 
practice. The research enriches the theoretical implication of 
&quot;kidney-brain interaction&quot;, deepens the understanding of AD' etiology, 
and provides further insights and directions for the prevention and treatment of 
AD with TCM, specifically from a kidney-based perspective.

DOI: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20250306.501
PMID: 40686118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Arch Pharm (Weinheim). 2025 Jul;358(7):e70050. doi: 10.1002/ardp.70050.

Design, Synthesis, In Vitro, and In Silico Studies of 
5-(Diethylamino)-2-Formylphenyl Naphthalene-2-Sulfonate Based Thiosemicarbazones 
as Potent Anti-Alzheimer Agents.

Farooq U(1), Islam M(2)(3), Batool Z(1), Mali SN(4), Jawarkar RD(5), Gurav 
SS(6), Alharthy RD(7), Şenol H(8), Sadeghian N(9), Taslimi P(9), Shafiq Z(1), 
Schenone S(10).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chemical Sciences, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, 
Pakistan.
(2)Department of Basic Sciences and Humanities (Chemistry), Muhammad Nawaz 
Sharif University of Engineering and Technology (MNSUET), Multan, Pakistan.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Science and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 
China.
(4)School of Pharmacy, D.Y. Patil University (Deemed to be University), Navi 
Mumbai, India.
(5)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Dr. Rajendra Gode Institute of Pharmacy, 
University-Mardi Road, Amravati, India.
(6)Department of Chemistry, VIVA College, Virar (W), Maharashtra, India.
(7)Department of Chemistry, Science & Arts College, Rabigh Branch, King 
Abdulaziz University, Rabigh, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Bezmialem Vakif 
University, Fatih, Istanbul, Türkiye.
(9)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Science, Bartin University, Bartin, 
Türkiye.
(10)Department of Pharmacy, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is known as one of the more devastating 
neurodegenerative diseases diagnosed in older people. Cholinesterase inhibitors 
(ChEI) can be used as an effective palliative treatment for AD. An extensive 
range of new biologically active 4-(diethylamino) salicylaldehyde-based 
thiosemicarbazone derivatives 5(a-u) was synthesized and evaluated as inhibitors 
of cholinesterase (ChE) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) enzymes. 
2,3-Dichloro-substituted compound 5u was the most potent inhibitor of AChE and 
MAO-A with IC50 values of 12.89 and 96.25 nM, respectively. In contrast, the 
2,3-dichlorophenyl-substituted compound 5a was the most powerful inhibitor of 
BChE, with an IC50 value of 124.72 nM. Structure-activity analysis revealed that 
the electron-withdrawing substituents on the phenyl ring play a crucial role in 
the inhibition potential of synthesized compounds. Compound 5a showed the 
strongest binding with 4BDS (-11.3 kcal/mol) via hydrogen bonds and 
π-interactions. Compound 5u exhibited high affinity with 1B41 (-8.2 kcal/mol), 
2Z5X (-8.6 kcal/mol), and 2V5Z (-7.8 kcal/mol), forming key hydrogen bonds, salt 
bridges, and π-interactions, highlighting its multi-target potential. In silico 
ADME, pharmacokinetics, and drug-likeness studies were conducted and compared 
with the standard drugs galantamine and clorgyline.

© 2025 The Author(s). Archiv der Pharmazie published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH on behalf 
of Deutsche Pharmazeutische Gesellschaft.

DOI: 10.1002/ardp.70050
PMCID: PMC12277872
PMID: 40685770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


69. Adv Sci (Weinh). 2025 Jul 20:e08503. doi: 10.1002/advs.202408503. Online
ahead  of print.

NAD+-Boosters Improve Mitochondria Quality Control In Parkinson's Disease Models 
Via Mitochondrial UPR.

Zhou S(1), Xiong X(1), Hou J(1), Duan Q(1), Zheng Y(1), Jiang T(1), Huang J(1), 
He H(1), Xu J(1), Chen K(1), Wang W(2), Cai J(1), Qian J(1), Chen H(1), Song 
W(3)(4), Wang X(1), Xie C(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, 325000, China.
(2)The Center of Traditional Chinese Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital 
and Yuying Children's Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 325027, 
China.
(3)Oujiang Laboratory, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, 325000, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang Province, Institute of 
Aging, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(5)Department of Geriatrics, Geriatric Medical Center, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, 325000, China.

Serving as a pivotal hub for cellular metabolism and intracellular signaling, 
the mitochondrion has emerged as a crucial organelle whose dysfunction is linked 
to many human diseases, including neurodegenerative disorders, particularly 
Parkinson's disease (PD). However, whether mitochondrial quality control (MQC) 
can be targeted for therapeutic interventions remains uncertain. This study uses 
clinical samples, molecular biology techniques, pharmacological interventions, 
and genetic approaches to investigate the significance of NAD+ levels in 
cross-species models of PD. These results reveal that treatment of 
rotenone-incubated cells with NAD+ boosters (such as NMN, siCD38, and NAT) 
increases UPRmt/mitophagy-related MQC, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine 
expression, inhibits apoptosis, and strengthen redox reactions. In vivo, NMN 
supplementation inhibits motor deficit and forestalls the neuropathological 
phenotypes of MPTP-induced PD mice, which are required for the atf4-related 
mitochondrial UPR pathway. Notably, bulk omics signatures and metabolomic 
profiling analyses of the striatum reveal NMN-induced transcriptional changes in 
genes and proteins involved in mitochondrial homeostasis. Thus, these findings 
demonstrate that the accelerated pathology in PD models is probably mediated by 
impaired MQC and that bolstering cellular NAD+ levels alleviates mitochondrial 
proteotoxic stress and mitigate PD phenotypes.

© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/advs.202408503
PMID: 40685704


70. Age Ageing. 2025 Jul 1;54(7):afaf201. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afaf201.

Development of a midlife-specific CogDrisk algorithm (CogDrisk-ML) to enable 
validated implementation of dementia risk assessment from midlife to late life.

Huque MH(1)(2)(3), Welberry HJ(4), Eramudugolla R(1)(2)(3), Lautenschlager 
NT(5)(6), Anstey KJ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)Brain Health and Dementia Centre, Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(3)UNSW Ageing future Institute, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia.
(4)Centre for Big Data Research in Health, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(5)Academic Unit for Psychiatry of Old Age, Department of Psychiatry, University 
of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(6)Older Adult Mental Health Program, Royal Melbourne Hospital Mental Health 
Service, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Existing dementia risk assessment tools, such as The Australian 
National University Alzheimer's Disease Risk Index (ANU-ADRI), LIfestyle for 
BRAin health (LIBRA) and Cognitive health and Dementia Risk Assessment 
(CogDrisk), show limited validation for middle-aged adults (age 40-64 years). 
The Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia (CAIDE) tool, 
developed almost two decades ago, demonstrated moderate predictive accuracy. As 
key modifiable dementia risk factors emerge in midlife, there is a need for a 
new, more accurate midlife dementia risk assessment tool.
OBJECTIVES: To develop CogDrisk-ML, a midlife dementia risk assessment tool that 
can complement the existing CogDrisk tool for late-life dementia risk 
assessment.
DESIGN AND SETTINGS: Data from the UK Biobank and the Atherosclerosis Risk in 
Communities (ARIC) study were used to develop and validate CogDrisk-ML, which 
was also externally validated using the Whitehall II cohort.
PARTICIPANTS AND COVARIATES: Participants without dementia at baseline were 
included, with CogDrisk predictors along with additional midlife risk factors 
based on recent evidence.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cox regression models estimated the relationship between 
risk factors and dementia for each sex. A random-effects meta-analysis model 
aggregated cohort- and sex-specific regression coefficients to develop 
CogDrisk-ML. Harrell's C statistics measured predictability, with multiple 
imputation used for missing data.
RESULTS: CogDrisk-ML outperformed CAIDE in the UK Biobank and Whitehall II 
cohorts; however, it provided similar C statistics in the ARIC dataset. C 
statistics (95% confidence interval) for CogDrisk-ML were 0.71 (0.69, 0.74) for 
the ARIC, 0.75 (0.73, 0.77) for the UK Biobank and 0.70 (0.62, 0.79) for the 
Whitehall II study.
CONCLUSION: The novel CogDrisk-ML for assessing dementia risk in midlife offers 
improved predictive accuracy. Combined with the CogDrisk tool for late life, it 
provides a comprehensive framework for dementia prevention throughout the life 
course.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afaf201
PMCID: PMC12277239
PMID: 40685637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


71. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):361-373. doi: 10.1177/13872877251360033.
Epub  2025 Jul 20.

Application of machine learning reveals diagnostic biomarkers related to 
pyroptosis in Alzheimer's disease and analysis of immune infiltration.

Huang Y(1), Xu T(2), Wang L(1), Xiang R(1), Zhou M(1), Yu H(1), Liu D(1), Chen 
Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Fourth Hospital of Changsha/Changsha Hospital of 
Hunan Normal University, Changsha, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Medical College of Hunan Normal University, 
Changsha, China.
(3)Department of Nephrology and Endocrinology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, China.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by complex pathological 
mechanisms, with pyroptosis potentially contributing to 
neuroinflammation.ObjectiveTo identify pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) in AD and 
explore their role in neuroinflammation, aiming to provide potential biomarkers 
and therapeutic targets for precision medicine in AD 
treatment.MethodsTranscriptomic data from AD brain tissues (GEO database) were 
analyzed using multi-omics integration and machine learning. Key PRGs were 
screened via weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), LASSO 
regression, random forest, and SVM-RFE algorithms. Molecular subtypes and 
therapeutic potential were assessed through unsupervised clustering and 
molecular docking.ResultsAnalysis identified 609 differentially expressed genes 
(DEGs), with upregulated genes enriched in DNA transcription and mitosis-related 
pathways. Six core PRGs (MIB1, TUG1, GATA1, CA1, CFH, IL17A) demonstrated strong 
diagnostic accuracy (AUC > 0.85). Unsupervised clustering revealed two AD 
subtypes: a high-risk subtype with activated pyroptosis-inflammatory pathways 
and distinct immune microenvironment features (p < 0.05). Molecular docking 
confirmed stable binding between CFH and the anti-AD drug candidate 
fludrocortisone (binding energy < -7 kcal/mol).ConclusionsPyroptosis modulates 
neuroinflammation to drive AD progression. CFH and other PRGs serve as promising 
biomarkers and therapeutic targets, advancing precision strategies for AD 
subtyping and intervention.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251360033
PMID: 40685632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


72. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):179-191. doi: 10.1177/13872877251360209.
Epub  2025 Jul 20.

Memory improvements among older adults with memory complaints and mild cognitive 
impairment after lifestyle intervention: An uncontrolled trial.

Ding Z(1), Pang TW(2), Chan AS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, The Chinese University 
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(2)Research Center for Neuropsychological Well-Being, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with various modifiable 
lifestyle risk factors, making lifestyle intervention a potentially viable 
approach to prevent or delay the onset of AD.ObjectiveTo investigate whether a 
one-month smartphone app-aided lifestyle medicine program could improve memory 
of older adults at risk of AD, including those with subjective memory complaints 
(SMC) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI).Methods158 community-dwelling older 
adults aged 60-80 years were recruited, including 31 older adults with normal 
cognition (NC), 104 with SMC, and 23 with MCI. The three groups were matched in 
age, education level, and gender. All the participants attended four weekly 
face-to-face workshops and completed daily homework with guidance from a 
smartphone app. Verbal learning and memory were assessed using Hong Kong List 
Learning Test (HKLLT) before and after intervention. This study was an 
uncontrolled trial.ResultsAfter the intervention, older adults improved 
significantly in learning and memory, with MCI benefiting the most. 94% of 
amnestic MCI cases showed clinically significant improvements in verbal memory. 
Besides, a substantial proportion of the MCI group (57% - 77%) and the SMC group 
(54% - 63%) demonstrated improvements in learning and memory that fulfilled the 
reliable and clinically significant change criteria, suggesting that the 
positive effects were not solely attributable to practicing effect. The extents 
of improvements were significantly predicted by baseline performance, gender, 
and/or compliance rate.ConclusionsImproved verbal learning and memory were 
observed in older adults with SMC and MCI after the smartphone app-supported 
lifestyle medicine program.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251360209
PMID: 40685631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


73. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):86-91. doi: 10.1177/13872877251360031. Epub
 2025 Jul 20.

Reducing falls in inpatient older adults: Quality improvement initiative.

Sultana M(1), Taylor C(1), McPhee D(1), Chandler A(1), Hyde H(2), Yekinni I(3), 
Sayeed N(4), Bessey M(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Research, Erie Shores HealthCare, W. Leamington, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Health Science, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland.
(4)Deparmtne of Computer Science, University of Windsor, Windsor, Ontario, 
Canada.

BackgroundFalls and fall-related injuries are common among older adults, 
adversely affecting their functional independence and quality of life. By 2043, 
one in three Canadians falls each year, resulting in 85% of hospitalizations, 
which cost $2 billion annually.ObjectiveThis study aimed to reduce inpatient 
falls among older adults with cognitive impairment in a rural Ontario 
hospital.MethodsA fall reduction project was implemented at the hospital to 
improve clinical care since January 2024. The project included fall risk 
screening, ensuring a fall bundle was in place, and monthly meetings with 
hospital staff and patient representatives to identify potential barriers and 
facilitators to the project. The project involved two components: 1) nurses 
evaluating fall risk using validated tools and 2) implementing a fall prevention 
bundle. Data was retrieved from the hospital's electronic medical records. The 
outcome of interest was the fall rate before and after the 
intervention.ResultsThe initiative has reduced the inpatient fall rate from 
16.25 falls per 1000 bed days in 2023 to 11.33 falls per 1000 bed days in 2024. 
Almost 57% of people who fell were cognitively impaired.ConclusionsThe project 
reduced the inpatient fall rate by 30% within a year. The involvement of 
patients and their families in the initiative has made the project meaningful to 
the community. However, no change was observed in the 30-day readmission rate, 
prompting the research team to conclude that inpatient interventions are 
insufficient. Further research on collaborative care involving the pharmacy 
department and community partners is recommended.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251360031
PMCID: PMC12361677
PMID: 40685630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: MS is an Editorial 
Board Member of this journal but was not involved in the peer-review process of 
this article nor had access to any information regarding its peer-review. The 
remaining authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article. Data availability 
statementThe data supporting the findings of this study are available on request 
from the corresponding author. The data is not publicly available due to privacy 
or ethical restrictions.


74. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):5-14. doi: 10.1177/13872877251359633. Epub 
2025 Jul 20.

Alternative splicing in Alzheimer's disease: Mechanisms, therapeutic 
implications, and 3D modeling approaches.

Pasteris M(1), Cakir S(1), Bellizzi A(1), Sariyer IK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Inflammation, Center for 
Neurovirology and Gene Editing, Temple University Lewis Katz School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive cognitive decline, 
memory loss, and behavioral changes. AD is pathologically marked by the 
accumulation of extracellular amyloid-β (Aβ) oligomers, amyloidogenic plaques, 
and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles. Amyloid-β protein precursor (AβPP) 
plays a central role in AD pathology, as it is cleaved by β-secretase and 
γ-secretase enzymes to generate Aβ peptides and oligomers which aggregate to 
form neurotoxic fibrils and plaques in the brain. Increased AβPP expression has 
been correlated to Aβ suggesting a larger role for AβPP function potentially 
through AβPP isoforms. Alternative splicing (AS) of APP pre-mRNA has emerged as 
a key regulatory mechanism influencing AβPP function through the generation of 
distinct isoforms. Similarly, the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) is 
also subject to alternative splicing, producing isoforms that can contribute to 
hyperphosphorylation and neurodegeneration. In this review, we explore the role 
of APP alternative splicing and the regulation of its isoform expression in AD 
and other neurodegenerative disorders, with a focus on its potential impact on 
Aβ peptide production. We also discuss recent advances in therapies targeting 
dysregulated splicing in neurodegenerative diseases and their potential 
relevance to AD. Finally, we highlight the use of three-dimensional culture 
models as a platform to study AS regulation in AD and other 
neurodegeneration-related disorders.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251359633
PMID: 40685621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


75. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 20;15(1):26304. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-12526-1.

Accurate deep-learning model to differentiate dementia severity and diagnosis 
using a portable electroencephalography device.

Hata M(1), Yanagisawa T(2)(3), Miyazaki Y(4), Omori H(4)(5), Hirashima A(4)(6), 
Nakagawa Y(4)(7), Eto M(4)(7), Yoshiyama K(4), Kanemoto H(4)(8), Nyamradnaa 
B(9), Yoshimoto S(9), Ezure K(9), Takahashi S(4)(10)(11)(12), Ikeda M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka, Japan. mhata@psy.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.
(2)Institute for Advanced Co-creation Studies, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka, Japan.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka, Japan.
(5)Shichiyama Hospital, Osaka, Japan.
(6)Osaka Psychiatric Medical Center, Osaka, Japan.
(7)Asakayama General Hospital, Osaka, Japan.
(8)Health and Counseling Center, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan.
(9)PGV Inc, Tokyo, Japan.
(10)Department of Occupational Therapy, Graduate School of Rehabilitation 
Science, Osaka Metropolitan University, Osaka, Japan.
(11)Clinical Research and Education Center, Asakayama General Hospital, Osaka, 
Japan.
(12)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Wakayama Medical University, Wakayama, Japan.

Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia pose significant health challenges 
in aging societies, emphasizing the need for accessible, cost-effective, and 
noninvasive diagnostic tools. Electroencephalography (EEG) is a promising 
biomarker, but traditional systems are limited by size, cost, and the need for 
skilled technicians. This study proposes a deep-learning-based approach using 
data from a portable EEG device to distinguish healthy volunteers (HVs) from 
patients with dementia-related conditions. We analyzed EEG data from 233 
participants, including 119 HVs and 114 patients, and transformed the signals 
into frequency-domain features using a short-time Fourier transform. A 
customized transformer-based model was trained and evaluated using 10-fold 
cross-validation and a holdout dataset. In the cross-validation, the model 
achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.872 and a balanced accuracy (bACC) 
of 80.8% in distinguishing HVs from patients. Subgroup analyses were conducted 
for HVs versus patients stratified by dementia severity and by clinical 
diagnosis, yielding AUCs ranging from 0.812 to 0.898 and bACCs from 74.9 to 
86.4%. Comparable results were obtained in the holdout dataset. These findings 
suggest that portable EEG data combined with deep learning may serve as a 
practical tool for the early detection and classification of dementia-related 
conditions.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-12526-1
PMCID: PMC12277436
PMID: 40685486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


76. Pharmacoecon Open. 2025 Sep;9(5):793-804. doi: 10.1007/s41669-025-00593-z.
Epub  2025 Jul 20.

Economic Evaluation of Lecanemab for Early Symptomatic Alzheimer's Disease in 
South Korea.

Shin S(#)(1)(2), Kim M(#)(1)(3), Hong SH(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, Korea.
(3)Division of Geriatrics, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea. 
songhhong@snu.ac.kr.
(5)Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, Korea. songhhong@snu.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Alzheimer's disease (AD) exerts a considerable economic 
burden on South Korea's aging population. Lecanemab, an amyloid-targeting 
therapy, has demonstrated efficacy in mitigating cognitive decline in 
early-stage AD but remains non-reimbursed in South Korea due to concerns over 
its economic feasibility. This study aimed to examine the cost-effectiveness of 
lecanemab using nationwide claims data for cost estimation within the South 
Korean healthcare system. Considering the substantial societal burden of AD, we 
also evaluated the cost-effectiveness of lecanemab from a limited societal 
perspective.
METHODS: A Markov state transition cohort model was developed to compare costs 
and outcomes of lecanemab combined with standard of care (SoC) versus SoC alone. 
The model simulated five stages of AD progression: mild cognitive impairment, 
mild AD, moderate AD, severe AD, and death. Transition probabilities between 
health states were derived from data provided by the National Alzheimer's 
Coordinating Center. Formal medical costs and long-term care costs were obtained 
from the national claims database, while drug cost and other medical expenses 
were derived from previous studies. Additional cost components such as 
opportunity cost of caregiver time, out-of-pocket expenses, and time and travel 
costs for hospital visits were included in the limited societal perspective. 
Korean-specific utilities for patients and caregivers differentiated by states 
of AD progression and care settings were obtained from the published literature. 
Effectiveness was measured in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) over a 
lifetime horizon. Scenario analyses were conducted by varying compositions of 
the cohort, age of onset, and drug pricing.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of lecanemab combined 
with SoC was 198,171,820 Korean Won (KRW)/QALY from the healthcare payer 
perspective and 181,185,820 KRW/QALY from the limited societal perspective, 
which significantly exceeded South Korea's willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of 
30 million KRW/QALY. Sensitivity analyses revealed that the ICER was highly 
influenced by variations in treatment effect and discount rates. The result of 
scenario analyses suggested that targeting lecanemab to patients with mild AD or 
implementing price reductions could substantially improve its 
cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Lecanemab's high cost poses a challenge to its inclusion in the 
National Health Insurance formulary under South Korea's current WTP thresholds. 
Strategic price adjustments and patient targeting are essential to enhance its 
economic viability. These findings provide valuable insights for policymakers 
and stakeholders in balancing treatment outcomes and resource allocation for AD 
management.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s41669-025-00593-z
PMCID: PMC12401850
PMID: 40685475

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Author Contributions: Seungyeon 
Shin and Maryanne Kim contributed equally to this work. Conceptualization and 
design: Shin, Kim, and Hong. Data acquisition, analysis, and interpretation: 
Shin and Hong. Statistical analysis: Shin and Kim. Writing original draft: Shin, 
Kim, and Hong. Writing review and editing: Shin, Kim, and Hong. Critical 
revision of the article for important intellectual content: Shin, Kim, and Hong. 
Obtaining funding: Shin. Supervision: Hong. Funding: This study was funded and 
supported by 2023 Health Fellowship Foundation of South Korea. Conflict of 
Interest:: The authors declare they have no conflicts of interest relevant to 
the contents of this article. Ethics Approval: This study was reviewed and 
approved by the Seoul National University Institutional Review Board, # 
2305/003-009. Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: 
Not applicable. Data Availability: All model inputs analyzed during this study 
are included in this published article. Code Availability: Model developed for 
this study is available at 
https://github.com/shinseung67/Cost-effectiveness-analysis/ .


77. Cell Prolif. 2025 Jul 20:e70099. doi: 10.1111/cpr.70099. Online ahead of
print.

CRISPR Technology in Disease Management: An Updated Review of Clinical 
Translation and Therapeutic Potential.

Far BF(1), Akbari M(2), Habibi MA(3)(4), Katavand M(5), Nasseri S(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Laboratory of Green Organic Synthesis and Polymers, Department of 
Chemistry, Iran University of Science and Technology, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Science, Shahrekord University, 
Shahrekord, Iran.
(3)Gene, Cell & Tissue Research Institute, Tehran University of Medical Science, 
Tehran, Iran.
(4)Clinical Research Development Center, Qom University of Medical Sciences, 
Qom, Iran.
(5)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Basic Science, Islamic Azad University, 
Science and Research Branch, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine, Medical College of 
Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, USA.

CRISPR-Cas9 technology has rapidly advanced as a transformative genome-editing 
platform, facilitating precise genetic modifications and expanding therapeutic 
opportunities across various diseases. This review explores recent developments 
and clinical translations of CRISPR applications in oncology, genetic and 
neurological disorders, infectious diseases, immunotherapy, diagnostics, and 
epigenome editing. CRISPR has notably progressed in oncology, where it enables 
the identification of novel cancer drivers, elucidation of resistance 
mechanisms, and improvement of immunotherapies through engineered T cells, 
including PD-1 knockout CAR-T cells. Clinical trials employing CRISPR-edited 
cells are demonstrating promising results in hematologic malignancies and solid 
tumours. In genetic disorders, such as hemoglobinopathies and muscular 
dystrophies, CRISPR-Cas9 alongside advanced editors like base and prime editors 
show significant potential for correcting pathogenic mutations. This potential 
was affirmed with the FDA's first approval of a CRISPR-based therapy, Casgevy, 
for sickle cell disease in 2023. Neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's, 
ALS, and Huntington's disease, are increasingly targeted by CRISPR approaches 
for disease modelling and potential therapeutic intervention. In infectious 
diseases, CRISPR-based diagnostics such as SHERLOCK and DETECTR provide rapid, 
sensitive nucleic acid detection, particularly valuable in pathogen outbreaks 
like SARS-CoV-2. Therapeutically, CRISPR systems target viral and bacterial 
genomes, offering novel treatment modalities. Additionally, CRISPR-mediated 
epigenome editing enables precise regulation of gene expression, expanding 
therapeutic possibilities. Despite these advances, significant challenges 
remain, including off-target effects, delivery methodologies, immune responses, 
and long-term genomic safety concerns. Future improvements in editor precision, 
innovative delivery platforms, and enhanced safety assessments will be essential 
to fully integrate CRISPR-based interventions into standard clinical practice, 
significantly advancing personalised medicine.

© 2025 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem 
Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cpr.70099
PMID: 40685330


78. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 15;1003:177974. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177974. 
Epub 2025 Jul 18.

Everolimus alleviates cognitive dysfunction in 5×FAD mice by regulating 
mitochondrial function and oxidative stress.

Li F(1), Chen Y(2), Zheng W(2), Li K(3), Chen Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Fuzhou University Affiliated Provincial Hospital, 
Fuzhou, 350001, China; School of Pharmacy, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 
350122, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350122, China.
(3)Fujian Institute of Microbiology, Fuzhou, 350007, China. Electronic address: 
121536452@qq.com.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350122, China. 
Electronic address: chenzhou@fjmu.edu.cn.

Everolimus, a well-characterized inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin 
(mTOR), has been extensively profiled in both preclinical and clinical studies. 
Accumulating evidence from recent studies suggests that mTOR inhibitors 
potentially possess the capacity to protect against various age-related 
diseases. Nevertheless, the impacts of Everolimus on cognitive function and the 
underlying mechanisms remain underexplored. In this study, we systematically 
evaluated the effects of varying doses of Everolimus (administered via 
intraperitoneal injection every other day for 8 weeks) on the cognitive ability 
of 5 × FAD mice. The learning and spatial memory of 5 × FAD mice were improved 
after Everolimus administration, with normal morphology and more pyramidal cells 
were detected in the hippocampi. Our findings suggest that Everolimus alleviates 
cognitive impairment in 5 × FAD mice through enhancing mitochondrial function, 
reducing oxidative stress, and improving energy metabolism within hippocampal 
tissues. Although these findings suggest an mTOR-dependent mechanism involving 
mitochondrial protection, the study did not investigate autophagy or mitophagy 
pathways, a limitation that should be addressed in future research. 
Collectively, these results demonstrate that Everolimus enhances cognitive 
function in 5 × FAD mice by promoting mitochondrial bioenergetics and mitigating 
oxidative stress, which positions it as a potential therapeutic candidate for 
cognitive dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177974
PMID: 40685105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper


79. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Sep;321(Pt 2):146160. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.146160. Epub 2025 Jul 18.

Therapeutic potential of traditional chinese medicine polysaccharides in 
alzheimer's disease via modulation of gut microbiota: A review.

Wang T(1), Gao C(1), Dong X(1), Li L(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shandong, Jinan 250000, China.
(2)College of Medicine, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shandong, Jinan 250000, China. Electronic address: sdzyylilingjun@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic and progressively deteriorating 
neurodegenerative condition characterized by a strong association with gut 
microbiome imbalances. It is estimated that by 2025, there will be 35 million 
patients worldwide, imposing a substantial burden on society. Currently, AD 
treatments predominantly rely on single-target approaches aimed at alleviating 
symptoms, which exhibit limited efficacy and fail to influence disease 
progression. Consequently, there is an urgent need to investigate novel 
therapeutic strategies to enhance treatment outcomes. Polysaccharides derived 
from traditional Chinese medicine (TCMPs) are renowned for their capacity to 
target multiple pathways and function as potent natural immune regulators, 
delivering comprehensive treatment effects. TCMPs possess prebiotic properties 
and can be fermented by the intestinal flora, promoting the proliferation of 
beneficial bacteria, inhibiting pathogens, and exerting anti-inflammatory, 
antioxidant, and Aβ-deposition inhibitory effects within the intestine. This 
article provides a systematic review of the interplay between gut microbiota, 
AD, and TCMPs, showcasing specific TCMP examples that demonstrate significant 
anti-AD effects mediated through gut flora modulation. The aim is to deepen 
understanding of TCMPs' role in AD therapy involving gut microbiota and to 
propose innovative strategies for optimizing AD treatment.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.146160
PMID: 40685037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict interests.


80. Clin Chim Acta. 2026 Jan 1;578:120506. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2025.120506. Epub
2025  Jul 18.

MicroRNA-155 in neurodegeneration.

Liu Q(1), Siadat SD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Engineering, Qilu University of Technology, Shandong 
250353, China. Electronic address: 19863745893@163.com.
(2)Independent researcher, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
siadatseyeddavar@gmail.com.

MicroRNA-155 (miR-155) is recognized for its multifaceted roles in 
neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. This abstract explores the emerging 
significance of miR-155, both as an intracellular regulator and encapsulated 
within exosomes, as a biomarker and therapeutic target in neurodegenerative 
disorders. Dysregulation of miR-155 is implicated in various conditions, 
including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis, 
where it modulates key pathways involved in neuronal survival, synaptic 
plasticity, and immune cell activation. Specifically, miR-155 has been shown to 
influence microglial activation, cytokine production, and the clearance of 
protein aggregates, all critical processes in neurodegenerative pathogenesis. 
Exosomal miR-155, released by various cell types including immune cells and 
neurons, offers a particularly exciting avenue. These nanovesicles facilitate 
intercellular communication, delivering their cargo, including miR-155, to 
recipient cells and influencing their function. As such, exosomal miR-155 levels 
in biofluids like cerebrospinal fluid and blood are being investigated as 
potential non-invasive diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for 
neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, the ability of exosomes to cross the 
blood-brain barrier makes them attractive vehicles for targeted delivery of 
therapeutic agents. This review highlights the dual promise of miR-155 and 
exosomal miR-155: first, as readily measurable indicators of disease progression 
and response to treatment, and second, as actionable targets for novel 
therapeutic strategies aimed at modulating neuroinflammation and protecting 
neuronal integrity.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2025.120506
PMID: 40684900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


81. Int Immunopharmacol. 2025 Oct 10;163:115234. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115234.  Epub 2025 Jul 19.

Construction of ROS-responsive cascade-targeted liposomes and investigation of 
their anti-AD effects.

Yu J(1), Ma D(1), Li S(1), Yang S(1), Li T(1), Kong L(1), Liu Y(1), Zang J(1), 
Yu Y(2), Li X(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Liaoning University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Dalian 116600, People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Liaoning University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Dalian 116600, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: yuqn0702@163.com.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Liaoning University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Dalian 116600, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
lixuetao1979@163.com.

Oxidative stress is considered a critical factor in the pathogenesis of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). The interaction between oxidative stress and 
neuroinflammation is closely associated with the production of beta-amyloid 
(Aβ). Although many drugs exhibit potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant 
properties, their poor water solubility and limited ability to penetrate the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) often result in reduced efficacy, making accurate AD 
treatment challenging. Previous studies have shown that borneol (Bor) can 
enhance BBB permeability, while the MG1 peptide can specifically target M1-type 
microglial cells. In this study, we constructed reactive oxygen species 
(ROS)-responsive cascade-targeting liposomes (ROS@Res-Lip) using 
DSPE-PEG2000-MG1 and DSPE-TK-PEG2000-Bor co-modification. This design aimed to 
reduce ROS accumulation and enhance BBB penetration by incorporating 
ROS-responsive thioketal (TK) bonds and Bor, while leveraging the MG1 peptide to 
improve the targeting of resveratrol (Res) to M1-type microglia. As a result, 
the drug concentration in the brain was significantly increased, thereby 
improving therapeutic efficacy. Our findings demonstrate that ROS@Res-Lip can 
achieve anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and neuroprotective effects by targeting 
M1-type microglia and promoting the conversion of M1-type microglia to M2-type 
microglia.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115234
PMID: 40684705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


82. Redox Biol. 2025 Sep;85:103769. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2025.103769. Epub 2025
Jul  16.

Enhancing protein O-GlcNAcylation in down syndrome mice mitigates memory 
dysfunctions through the rescue of mitochondrial bioenergetics, stress responses 
and pathological markers.

Lanzillotta C(1), Prestia F(1), Greco V(2), Iavarone F(2), Cordella F(3), Sette 
C(1), Forte E(1), Tramutola A(1), Lanzillotta S(1), Cassano T(4), Di 
Angelantonio S(5), Urbani A(2), Barone E(1), Perluigi M(1), Di Domenico F(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemical Sciences A. Rossi Fanelli, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Basic Biotechnological Sciences, Intensivological and 
Perioperative Clinics, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, 00168, Rome, Italy; 
Department of Laboratory Diagnostic and Infectious Diseases, Unity of Chemistry, 
Biochemistry and Clinical Molecular Biology, Fondazione Policlinico 
Universitario Agostino Gemelli-IRCCS, 00168, Rome, Italy.
(3)Center for Life Nano- & Neuroscience, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Viale 
Regina Elena, 291, 00161, Rome, Italy; Department of Physiology and 
Pharmacology, Sapienza University of Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185, Rome, 
Italy.
(4)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Foggia, Via Luigi 
Pinto, c/o Policlinico "Riuniti" di Foggia, 71122, Foggia, Italy.
(5)Center for Life Nano- & Neuroscience, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Viale 
Regina Elena, 291, 00161, Rome, Italy; Department of Physiology and 
Pharmacology, Sapienza University of Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185, Rome, 
Italy; D-Tails srl BC, Via di Torre Rossa, 66, 00165, Rome, Italy.
(6)Department of Biochemical Sciences A. Rossi Fanelli, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185, Rome, Italy. Electronic address: 
fabio.didomenico@uniroma1.it.

Disturbances of the single sugar modification of proteins, O-GlcNAc, have been 
identified as a potential connection between disrupted brain metabolism and 
intellectual decay. In Alzheimer disease (AD), the reduced uptake of glucose in 
the brain results in aberrant O-GlcNAc cycling contributing to redox imbalance 
and neurodegeneration. Notably, alterations of O-GlcNAc homeostasis, associated 
with impaired O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT)/O-GlcNAcase (OGA) regulation, foster 
neuropathological mechanisms characterized by the presence of AD hallmarks in 
Down syndrome (DS) models. In the present study we examined the ability of 
Thiamet G (TMG), a well-known OGA inhibitor, in improving bio-energetic 
processes, inducing stress responses, reducing AD-related signatures and 
ameliorating cognition in a murine model of DS. Our data demonstrate that 
short-term intranasal administration of TMG restored OGA activity and normalized 
the global O-GlcNAc profile in mouse cortices. By a proteomic approach we 
identified protein components whose increased O-GlcNAc levels rescue, resulted 
to brain molecular and cognitive improvements. Remarkably, these included 
elements involved in energy production, neuronal architecture, antioxidant and 
stress response mechanisms. The ability of TMG in rescuing O-GlcNAc cycle and 
metabolic changes, associated with improved mitochondrial activity in cortical 
tissue, was further accompanied by changes in the O-GlcNAc/phospho ratio of APP 
and Tau. Functional improvements translated in enhanced recognition memory in 
Ts2Cje mice. Our study highlights the pivotal role of altered protein 
O-GlcNAcylation in DS neuropathology and establishes the molecular basis to 
envision the O-GlcNAc process as a promising therapeutic target to mitigate 
genetic- and metabolism-driven brain alterations linked to redox imbalance, 
mitochondrial failure and the development of AD features.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2025.103769
PMCID: PMC12301976
PMID: 40684658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Silvia Di 
Angelantonio is a scientific advisor of D-Tails s.r.l. The funders had no role 
in the design of the study; in the collection, analysis, or interpretation of 
data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to publish the 
results. All the other authors declare no competing interest.


83. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70485. doi: 10.1002/alz.70485.

Language impairment is associated with faster progression in progressive 
supranuclear palsy-Richardson syndrome.

Garcia-Cordero I(1), Vargas-Gonzalez JC(1), Hadian M(1), Bayram E(2), 
Rodriguez-Porcel F(3), Couto B(4), Iyer J(5), Golbe LI(6)(7), Stephen CD(8), 
Pantelyat A(9), Dale ML(10)(11), McFarland N(12), Xie T(13), Swan M(14), Kang 
K(15), Gunzler D(16), Wills AM(8), Boxer A(17), Litvan I(18), Lang A(19)(20), 
Tartaglia MC(1)(19)(20).

Author information:
(1)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Movement Disorders Center, Department of Neurology, University of Colorado 
Anschutz, Aurora, Colorado, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, 
South Carolina, USA.
(4)Institute of Cognitive and Translational Neuroscience (INCyT-INECO-CONICET), 
Favaloro University Hospital, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(5)Departments of Molecular and Cellular Biology and Statistics, Harvard 
University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.
(7)CurePSP, Inc., New York, New York, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, 
Oregon, USA.
(11)VA Medical Center PADRECC, Portland, Oregon, USA.
(12)Department of Neurology, Norman Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases, 
College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(13)Department of Neurology, University of Chicago Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, 
USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, Mount Sinai Beth Israel, and Icahn School of 
Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(15)Music and Health Science Research Collaboratory (MaHRC), Faculty of Music, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(16)Population Health and Equity Research Institute, Center for Health Care 
Research and Policy, MetroHealth Medical Center, School of Medicine, Case 
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(17)Department of Neurology, Memory and Aging Center, University of California, 
San Francisco, California, USA.
(18)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, San Diego, 
California, USA.
(19)The Edmond J. Safra Program in Parkinson's Disease and Morton and Gloria 
Shulman Movement Disorders Clinic, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(20)Rossy PSP Program, University Health Network and the University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Cognitive impairment is common but often overlooked due to motor 
symptoms in progressive supranuclear palsy-Richardson syndrome (PSP-RS). This 
study investigates whether cognitive deficits predict disease progression in 
PSP-RS.
METHODS: A total of 146 PSP-RS from the Tilavonemab trial were evaluated at 
baseline and over 52 weeks using the PSP-Rating Scale (PSPRS), the Repeatable 
Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS), and the Unified 
Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale Part-II (UPDRS-II). Multiple linear regression 
analyses were performed between the RBANS, UPDRS-II, and the PSPRS change. 
Clinical scores, gray matter volumes, and neurofilament-light chain (NfL) were 
compared using analyses of covariance (ANCOVAs) and linear mixed models between 
language score-groups.
RESULTS: Lower RBANS-language at baseline predicted greater PSPRS worsening over 
time. The low language-score group showed poorer cognitive performance, elevated 
NfL, and reduced gray matter volume in language-related areas.
DISCUSSION: Speech/language deficits predict worse prognosis in PSP-RS, 
emphasizing the value of including language scores in clinical trials.
HIGHLIGHTS: Speech and language deficits predict a worse prognosis in 
progressive supranuclear palsy-Richardson syndrome (PSP-RS). Lower language 
scores are associated with worse cognitive performance over time. Lower language 
scores related to higher neurofilament-light chain (NfL) at baseline. The low 
language-score group presented greater atrophy in language-related brain areas. 
Stratifying PSP-RS cases using language scores may improve clinical trials.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70485
PMCID: PMC12276069
PMID: 40684253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The other authors declare no competing 
interests. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


84. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70446. doi: 10.1002/alz.70446.

Staging of Alzheimer's disease progression in Down syndrome using mixed clinical 
and plasma biomarker measures with machine learning.

Idris M(1), Saini F(1)(2), Ivain P(1)(2), Baksh RA(1), Bianchi LA(1), Pape 
SE(1), Zetterberg H(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8), Wijeratne PA(9), Strydom A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, Institute of 
Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, London, Greater 
London, UK.
(2)Natbrainlab, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's 
College London, London, Greater London, UK.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(7)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, InnoHK, Hong Kong, China.
(8)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(9)Sussex Artificial Intelligence Centre, School of Engineering and Informatics, 
University of Sussex, Falmer, Brighton, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Adults with Down syndrome (DS) have a high risk for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Although the sequence of plasma biomarker and cognitive changes in 
AD in DS is well studied, their related trajectories are not fully 
characterized. Data-driven methods can estimate disease progression from 
cross-sectional data.
METHODS: In 57 adults with DS and no AD, we used the event-based model to 
sequence plasma biomarker and cognitive changes in preclinical AD. Generalized 
additive models assessed the relationship between age and plasma biomarkers.
RESULTS: The earliest changes occurred in the amyloid beta 42/40 ratio, followed 
by memory changes. Later alterations in neurofilament light and tau 
concentrations preceded executive and visuomotor function changes, with glial 
fibrillary acidic protein levels changing last. The highest rate of plasma 
biomarker changes occurred between ages 39 and 52.
CONCLUSION: Changes in DS follow a pattern similar to that of sporadic and 
familial AD. Event-based modeling offers individual-level staging, potentially 
optimizing diagnosis and clinical trial patient selection.
HIGHLIGHTS: The pre-clinical stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) development in 
Down syndrome (DS) are not well defined, despite the extremely high prevalence 
of AD. Better understanding of early AD progression would aid in diagnostics and 
treatment. Data-driven methods, such as the event-based model, can aid in 
clarifying the sequence of cognitive and plasma biomarker changes in the early 
stages of AD while accounting for baseline variability. We find that plasma 
amyloid beta 42/40 ratio and memory changes precede changes in plasma biomarker 
levels of neurodegeneration, with changes in executive and visuomotor functions 
occurring later, before neuroinflammatory marker changes. Combining plasma 
biomarkers could be a useful measure of preclinical AD for trials, particularly 
in individuals between 39 and52 years of age.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70446
PMCID: PMC12276070
PMID: 40684252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, 
Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, 
Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given 
lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work). A.S. received funding from AC Immune and 
served on advisory boards for ProMIS neurosciences, AC Immune, and Acta 
Pharmaceuticals. The other authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


85. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70521. doi: 10.1002/alz.70521.

Role of B vitamins in modulating homocysteine and metabolic pathways linked to 
brain atrophy: Metabolomics insights from the VITACOG trial.

Kacerova T(1), Yates AG(1)(2), Dai J(1), Shepherd D(2), Pires E(1), de Jel S(3), 
Gong Q(3), Schiffer E(3), Jernerén F(4), Olsen T(5), De Jager Loots CA(6), 
Refsum H(2)(5), Smith AD(2), McCullagh JSO(1), Anthony DC(2), Probert F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Chemistry Research Laboratory, University of Oxford, 
Oxford, UK.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(3)numares AG, Regensburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Nutrition, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(6)The Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial 
College London, Charing Cross Hospital, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Elevated total homocysteine (tHcy) is a major predictor of brain 
atrophy, cognitive decline, and Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. The 
VITACOG trial, a randomized, placebo-controlled study in mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI), previously showed that B vitamin supplementation lowered tHcy, 
slowing brain atrophy and cognitive decline; however, the underlying mechanisms 
remained unclear.
METHODS: We used untargeted, multi-platform metabolomics, with nuclear magnetic 
resonance and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to analyze serum samples 
from 89 B vitamin-treated and 84 placebo-treated MCI participants over a 2 year 
follow-up period.
RESULTS: Multivariate modeling distinguished treated from placebo groups with 
91.2 ± 1.8% accuracy. B vitamin supplementation induced significant metabolic 
reprogramming, lowering quinolinic acid, α-ketoglutarate, α-ketobutyrate, 
glucose, and glutamate.
DISCUSSION: These findings reveal that B vitamins influence metabolic pathways 
beyond tHcy reduction, particularly the tricarboxylic acid cycle and 
glutamine-glutamate cycling, critical for brain energy homeostasis and 
neurotransmission. This metabolic signature supports B vitamin supplementation 
as a strategy for slowing MCI progression.
HIGHLIGHTS: Nuclear magnetic resonance and multi-platform liquid chromatography 
tandem mass spectrometry metabolomics were performed on serum samples from 89 B 
vitamin-treated and 84 placebo participants in the VITACOG trial. Multi-platform 
metabolomics revealed B vitamin-driven metabolic reprogramming, achieving 91% 
classification accuracy. B vitamin supplementation modulates key neuroprotective 
metabolic pathways. Regulation of energy metabolism and neurotransmission by B 
vitamins contributes to brain health in elderly individuals. B vitamins 
demonstrate potential as an adjunct therapy in mild cognitive impairment, 
potentially mitigating progression to Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70521
PMCID: PMC12276071
PMID: 40684250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.D.S. and H.R. are named as inventors on two 
patents held by the University of Oxford on the use of B vitamins to treat 
cognitive disorders (US9364497 and US10966947). F.J. is named as an inventor on 
US10966947. These patents have been licensed to Elysium Health, NY. J.S.O.M. has 
a research contract and equipment loan from ThermoFisher Scientific, which 
manufactures IC‐MS systems. S. de J., Q. G., and E. S. are employees of Numares 
AG (Am Biopark 9, 93053 Regensburg‐Graß, Germany). All other authors report no 
conflicts of interest. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


86. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70470. doi: 10.1002/alz.70470.

Implications and opportunities regarding biological frameworks in overt and 
prodromal dementia with Lewy bodies.

Goldman JG(1)(2), Boeve BF(3), Galasko D(4), Taylor JP(5), Galvin JE(6), 
Leverenz JB(7), Blanc F(8), Halliday G(9), Kantarci K(10), Lemstra AW(11), Leroi 
I(12), Lewis SJG(13), Litvan I(14), Medsger H(15), O'Brien J(16), Scholz 
SW(17)(18), Aarsland D(19)(20), Ikeda M(21), McKeith I(5), Taylor A(22).

Author information:
(1)Medical Division, JPG Enterprises LLC, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, 
USA.
(3)Department of Neurology and Center for Sleep Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, UC San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.
(5)Biomedical Research Building, Campus for Ageing and Vitality, Newcastle 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(6)Comprehensive Center for Brain Health, Department of Neurology, University of 
Miami Miller School of Medicine, Boca Raton, Florida, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, VA-Puget Sound Health Care System, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(8)HdR, CM2R (Centre de Mémoire Ressources Et Recherche), Service de 
Gérontologie Mobile-Neuro-Psy-Recherche, GeRMINED Department, University 
Hospital of Strasbourg, and ICube Laboratory UMR-7357 and FMTS (Fédération de 
Médecine Translationnelle de Strasbourg), IMIS Team, University of Strasbourg 
and CNRS, Strasbourg, France.
(9)Parkinson's Disease Research Clinic, Macquarie University Faculty of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(10)Department of Radiology, Division of Neuroradiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.
(11)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(12)Global Brain Health Institute and School of Medicine, Trinity College 
Dublin, College Green, Dublin, Ireland.
(13)Parkinson's Disease Research Clinic, Macquarie Medical School, Macquarie 
University, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(14)Department of Neurosciences, Parkinson and Other Movement Disorders Center, 
UC San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.
(15)North Bay Lewy Body Dementia Caregiver Support Group, Santa Rosa, 
California, USA.
(16)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge School of Clinical 
Medicine, Cambridge, UK.
(17)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Section, National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(18)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University Medical Center, Baltimore, 
Maryland, USA.
(19)Old Age Psychiatry Department, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and 
Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
(20)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, 
Norway.
(21)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka, Japan.
(22)Lewy Body Dementia Association, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), a progressive neurodegenerative disease with 
heterogeneous clinical presentations, greatly impacts patients, caregivers, and 
society. Despite its frequency, diagnosing and treating DLB remains challenging. 
Advances in in vivo biomarker assays reflecting underlying pathology are 
improving disease identification, diagnostic accuracy, and therapeutic 
development for biologically targeted, disease-modifying agents. Consequently, 
definitions of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease (PD) have shifted to 
focus on pathological changes occurring before clinical features, with proposed 
frameworks for detecting pathological amyloid and tau, neurodegeneration, and 
other markers (National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association) and 
alpha-synucleinopathy and dopaminergic degeneration (Neuronal α-synuclein 
Disease Integrated Staging System, SynNeurGe). The biological frameworks, 
particularly those related to alpha-synuclein (α-synuclein), have sparked debate 
about unifying DLB and PD under a single pathobiologic disease. This paper 
discusses the implications of these biological frameworks for the DLB community, 
addressing topics regarding multiple pathologies and neurochemical systems, 
clinical heterogeneity, and functional impairment, and exploring the potential 
impact on clinical trials and care. HIGHLIGHTS: DLB is a progressive 
neurodegenerative disease with varied clinical presentations. Diagnosing and 
treating DLB remains challenging despite its frequency. Biological frameworks 
are reshaping Alzheimer's and Parkinson's definitions. In vivo biomarkers are 
improving DLB identification and diagnostic accuracy. Debate exists regarding 
unifying DLB and Parkinson's under one pathobiology.

© 2025 Lewy Body Dementia Association and The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia 
published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association. This 
article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is 
in the public domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70470
PMCID: PMC12276075
PMID: 40684248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Jennifer G. Goldman, MD, MS, has received 
grant/research support from Acadia, Michael J. Fox Foundation; honoraria from 
International Parkinson Disease and Movement Disorders Society, Parkinson's 
Foundation, and Parkinson Study Group; and consulting fees from EIP 
Pharma/CervoMed, GE Healthcare, KeifeRx, Lewy Body Dementia Association, 
InMuneBio, and SAGE. Dag Aarsland has received research support and/or honoraria 
from AstraZeneca, H. Lundbeck, Novartis Pharmaceuticals, Evonik, Roche 
Diagnostics, GE Health, and Sanofi; and served as paid consultant for H. 
Lundbeck, Eisai, Heptares, Mentis Cura, Eli Lilly, Cognetivity, Enterin, Acadia, 
EIP Pharma, Biogen, and Takeda. Frederic Blanc, MD, PhD was the national 
coordinator for France for the Eisai Delphia (E2027), Axovant Headway‐DLB, Roche 
Graduate, and EIP Pharma/CervoMed therapeutic trials; he has received honoraria 
from Roche, Eisai, and Biogen for oral presentations and from Eisai and 
Novo‐Nordisk for serving on a board; and grant support from National PHRC, 
Inter‐regional PHRC, Memento cohort, Vaincre Alzheimer, Alzheimer Research 
Foundation, and A2MCL. Bradley F. Boeve, MD, has received honoraria for SAB 
activities for the Tau Consortium, funded by the Rainwater Charitable 
Foundation; institutional research grant support for clinical trials from 
Alector, Transposon, Cognition Therapeutics, and EIP Pharma/CervoMed; and grant 
support from NIH (P30 AG062677, U01 NS100620, U19 AG071754), Lewy Body Dementia 
Association, American Brain Foundation, Mayo Clinic Dorothy and Harry T. 
Mangurian Jr. Lewy Body Dementia Program, the Little Family Foundation, the Ted 
Turner and Family Foundation. Douglas Galasko, MD, has received consulting fees 
from Eisai, Inc., GE Healthcare, and Artery Therapeutics and grant support from 
NIH U01NS100610, P30AG062429, and the Michael J. Fox Foundation. James E. 
Galvin, MD, MPH, receives grants from the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
(U01 AG084528, T32 AG081170, P30 AG059295, R01 AG078214, RF1 AG075901, R56 
AG074889, R01 AG071514, R01 AG071643, R01 AG069765, R01 AG057681, R01 NS101483) 
and Lewy Body Dementia Association. He is the Chief Scientific Officer for 
Cognivue, Inc., and receives consulting fees. He is a consultant for Biogen, 
Beckman‐Coulter, BMS, Cognition Therapeutics, CervoMed, Eisai, Eli Lilly, GE 
Healthcare, Lobe Sciences, Lundbeck, and Roche. Glenda Halliday, PhD, has 
received grant/research support from Aligning Science Across Parkinson's, Defeat 
MSA Canada and Australia‐New Zealand, National Health and Medical Research 
Council of Australia, NIH, Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, 
and Medical Research Future Fund of Australia Australian Parkinson's Mission; 
Royalties from Elsevier, Academic Press, and Oxford University Press; consulting 
fees from the Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care and 
National Health and Medical Research Council; support for attending meetings 
from International Parkinson Disease and Movement Disorders Society, Australian 
Academy of Science, New Zealand Winter Brain Conference, Fight Parkinson's, and 
University of Tasmania; owns stock in Cochlear Pty Ltd and NIB Health Insurance. 
Manabu Ikeda, MD, PhD, has received grant support from Eisai, Otsuka, Sumitomo, 
and Takeda as the chairman of the department; grant from MHLW Program (Grant 
Number JPMH20CA2088), the Health Labour Sciences Research Grant (grant 
number:22GB1001), Innovation Platform for Society 5.0 at MEXT, Japan; honoraria 
from Eisai, Otsuka, Sumitomo, Lilly, Kowa; consulting fees from Otsuka, Ono, 
Lilly, Shionogi, K‐pharma, and Novo Nordisk. Kejal Kantarci, MD, MS, has 
received grant support from the NIH (P30 AG062677, U01 NS100620, U19 AG071754, 
and R01 NS124065) and ADDF and received research support from Eli Lilly. She 
consults for Biogen without personal compensation. Afina W. Lemstra, MD, PhD, 
has received institutional grant support from Hersenstichting, Gieske Strijbis 
Fonds, Stichting Dioraphte, Combinostics, and Michael J. Fox Foundation. Iracema 
Leroi, MD, has received grant support from the European Commission, the Health 
Research Board (Ireland), and the Irish Research Foundation, as well as 
honoraria from Boeringher, Roche, and Novo Nordisk. James B. Leverenz, MD, has 
received grant/research support from the NIH (NIA, National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke), Lewy Body Dementia Association, Michael J. 
Fox Foundation, GE Healthcare, and Amprion. Simon Lewis, FRCP, MD, is supported 
by a National Health and Medical Research Council Leadership Fellowship 
(1195830) and has received research funding from the Michael J. Fox Foundation 
and the Australian Research Council, as well as honoraria from International 
Parkinson Disease and Movement Disorders Society, and the Parkinson's Foundation 
and consulting fees from Pharmaxis Ltd. Irene Litvan, MD, is supported by NIH 
grants U01NS112010, U01NS100610, R01AG063911, R61NS141119‐01; U01NS112010; 
P30AG062429‐06; and R25NS10893; the Michael J. Fox Foundation, Parkinson's 
Foundation, Lewy Body Dementia Association, CurePSP, Roche, AbbVie, Lundbeck, 
EIP‐Pharma, Alterity, Novartis, and UCB. She is a member of the scientific 
advisory board of the Rossy PSP Program at the University of Toronto, Aprinoia, 
and Amydis. She receives her salary from the University of California, San 
Diego, and is the Chief Editor of Frontiers in Neurology. Ian McKeith, F Med 
Sci, MD, FRC Psych, has no disclosures. Helen Medsger is a Special Government 
Employee in the US Department of Health & Human Services as a Member of the NAPA 
Advisory Council on Alzheimer's Research, Care, and Services. John O'Brien, DM, 
FMedSci, has acted as a consultant for TauRx, Novo Nordisk, Biogen, Roche, 
Lilly, GE Healthcare, and Okwin and received grants or academic in‐kind support 
from Avid/ Lilly, Merck, UCB, and Alliance Medical. John O'Brien is supported by 
the NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre and the Medical Research 
Council‐funded Dementias Platform UK. Sonja W. Scholz, MD, PhD, has received 
research support from Cerevel Therapeutics. SWS has been supported by the 
Intramural Research Program of the NINDS, NIH (Program No. ZIANS003154). Angela 
Taylor is employed by the Lewy Body Dementia Association. John‐Paul Taylor, 
MBBS(hons) MRCPsych, PhD, is supported by the Newcastle NIHR Biomedical Research 
Centre and has received speaker fees from GE Healthcare and Bial, consultant 
fees from EIP Pharma/CervoMed, and grant funding and consultancy from 
Sosei‐Heptares. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information


87. BMC Complement Med Ther. 2025 Jul 19;25(1):277. doi:
10.1186/s12906-025-05023-5.

Acupuncture for patients with mild cognitive impairment: a randomized, 
patient-assessor-blinded, sham-controlled pilot study.

Choi Y(1), Kim PW(1), Jung IC(2), Kim AR(3), Park HJ(3), Kwon O(1), Lee JH(1), 
Kim JH(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)KM Science Research Division, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, Daejeon, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, College of Korean Medicine, Daejeon 
University, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(3)R&D Strategy Division, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, Daejeon, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Acupuncture and Moxibustion Medicine, College of Korean 
Medicine, Sangji University, 83 Sangjidae-gil, Wonju, 26339, Republic of Korea. 
jhkim714v@gmail.com.
(5)Research Institute of Korean Medicine, Sangji University, Wonju, Republic of 
Korea. jhkim714v@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is the transitional stage between 
normal aging and early dementia. Although acupuncture is a promising 
non-pharmacological treatment, higher-quality evidence is needed to confirm its 
effectiveness.
METHODS: A randomized, patient- and assessor-blinded, sham-controlled, pilot 
clinical trial was conducted to evaluate the feasibility of acupuncture for 
treating MCI. In total, 30 participants were randomized into acupuncture and 
sham acupuncture groups. The participants underwent 24 treatment sessions over 
12 weeks. The primary outcome was a change in the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment 
Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-cog) score over 12 weeks, whereas the secondary 
outcomes included the Seoul Neuropsychological Screening Battery (SNSB-II) 
score. Adverse events and the success of blinding were also assessed.
RESULTS: Of the 30 participants, 28 completed the study. Participants in the 
acupuncture and sham acupuncture groups exhibited a decrease in ADAS-cog scores 
from 10.27 ± 4.03 and 11.47 ± 3.85 at baseline to 5.78 ± 3.04 and 6.27 ± 2.83 at 
week 12, respectively. Both groups exhibited clinically meaningful improvements, 
with no significant difference between groups (P = 0.6590). The SNSB-II memory 
domain exhibited a moderate effect size favoring acupuncture (Cohen's d = 0.57, 
P = 0.1317). No intervention-related adverse events were reported, and 
participant blinding was adequate throughout the trial.
CONCLUSIONS: The 12-week acupuncture treatment is feasible for patients with MCI 
and may improve memory. Although the primary outcomes did not reach statistical 
significance, the secondary outcomes suggested potential benefits. Larger 
confirmatory trials are warranted to investigate the effectiveness of 
acupuncture in patients with MCI.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Research Information Service (cris.nih.go.kr) 
KCT0001938 (Registered on June 3, 2016).

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-025-05023-5
PMCID: PMC12275449
PMID: 40684196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This research was reviewed and approved by the Institutional Review 
Board of the Daejeon Korean Medicine Hospital of Daejeon University 
(registration number: djomc-131-1). The study was conducted in accordance with 
the Declaration of Helsinki. Informed consent was obtained from all the 
participants. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


88. Cell Biochem Biophys. 2025 Jul 19. doi: 10.1007/s12013-025-01832-0. Online
ahead  of print.

Bryophyllum pinnatum (L.) Pers. Modulates Multiple Neuroprotective Targets in 
Alzheimer's Disease: Evidence from Computational and Experimental Validation.

Pattanashetti L(1), Donagannavar MM(2), Jigalur D(2), Patil VS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, KLE College of Pharmacy, Hubli, KLE Academy of 
Higher Education and Research, Deemed-to-be-University, Belagavi, Karnataka, 
India. lapattanashetti@klecoph.edu.in.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, KLE College of Pharmacy, Hubli, KLE Academy of 
Higher Education and Research, Deemed-to-be-University, Belagavi, Karnataka, 
India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, KLE College of Pharmacy, Belagavi, KLE Academy of 
Higher Education and Research, Deemed-to-be-University, Belagavi, Karnataka, 
India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by cognitive decline, with limited therapeutic options and adverse 
effects associated with long-term pharmacological treatments. This study 
investigated the neuroprotective potential of Bryophyllum pinnatum (B. pinnatum) 
through integrative in silico and in vivo approaches. Network pharmacology and 
pathway enrichment analyses (KEGG, Cytoscape 3.10.1) were used to identify 
compound-target network association. Molecular docking using AutoDock Vina and 
molecular dynamics (MD) simulations for 200 ns using GROMACS were executed to 
assess the stability of the key ligands and targets. Cognitive impairment was 
induced in Wistar rats using scopolamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Animals were treated 
with B. pinnatum hydroalcoholic leaf extract (200 and 400 mg/kg, p.o.) and 
donepezil (3 mg/kg, i.p.) for 30 days. Cognitive and motor functions were 
evaluated via Morris water maze, elevated plus maze, locomotor activity, and 
grip strength tests. Biochemical assays measured acetylcholinesterase (ACHE) 
activity, β-amyloid (Aβ) levels, glutathione, and lipid peroxidation. 
Histopathological analysis of brain tissue assessed neuronal integrity. In 
silico analyses identified multiple phytoconstituents involved in AD-relevant 
pathways, including MAPK, PI3K-Akt, and cholinergic signaling. Diosmin exhibited 
high binding affinities to ACHE (-10.3 kcal/mol) and MAO-B (-11.2 kcal/mol), 
with stable binding confirmed via MD simulations. In vivo, B. pinnatum 
significantly improved cognitive performance, motor coordination, and 
antioxidant status while reducing Aβ aggregation and ACHE activity (p < 0.05). 
Histological findings showed reduced neuronal degeneration and 
neuroinflammation. These results highlight the multitarget neuroprotective 
potential of B. pinnatum, with diosmin emerging as a promising plant-derived 
candidate for AD therapeutics.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12013-025-01832-0
PMID: 40684044

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standards. Conflict of 
interest: The authors declare no competing interests. Ethics approval: The 
experiments on AD activity were carried out under the protocol 
MPh/NC0220004/KLECoPH/21, which was approved by the Institutional Animal Ethics 
Committee (IAEC) of the Committee for Control and Supervision of Experiments on 
Animals (CCSEA), Govt. of India.


89. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 19;15(1):26217. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-12268-0.

TFEB overexpression alleviates autophagy-lysosomal deficits caused by 
progranulin insufficiency.

Nader WO(1), Brown KS(1), Boyle NR(1), Kaplelach AK(1), Abdelaziz SM(1), Davis 
SE(1), Aljabi Q(1), Hakim AR(1), Davidson AG(1), Vollmer GA(1), Wright LC(1), 
Echols JB(1), Saad J(1), Pena NS(1), Arrant AE(2).

Author information:
(1)Killion Center for Neurodegeneration and Experimental Therapeutics, 
Alzheimer's Disease Center, Evelyn F. McKnight Brain Institute, Department of 
Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(2)Killion Center for Neurodegeneration and Experimental Therapeutics, 
Alzheimer's Disease Center, Evelyn F. McKnight Brain Institute, Department of 
Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA. 
andrewarrant@uabmc.edu.

Progranulin is a pro-protein that is necessary for maintaining lysosomal 
function. Loss-of-function progranulin (GRN) mutations are a dominant cause of 
frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Brains of people with FTD due to GRN mutations 
accumulate lysosomal storage material and exhibit increased expression of 
lysosomal transcripts, which may be driven by TFEB and related transcription 
factors. While this may be a compensatory response to lysosomal impairment, 
overproduction of lysosomal proteins may also contribute to FTD pathogenesis. To 
investigate how TFEB may contribute to disease in people with GRN mutations, we 
analyzed the effects of TFEB overexpression in progranulin-insufficient cells 
and mice. We generated GRN knockout HEK-293 cells (GRN KO cells), which 
exhibited increased nuclear localization of TFEB and expression of lysosomal 
transcripts, but impaired autophagy. TFEB overexpression in GRN KO cells further 
increased lysosomal transcripts and partially normalized autophagy. We next 
injected an AAV vector expressing mouse Tfeb (AAV-TFEB) into the thalamus of 
Grn-/- mice, which accumulates lysosomal storage material. AAV-TFEB increased 
lysosomal transcripts and reduced immunoreactivity for SCMAS, a marker of 
lysosomal storage material, in Grn-/- thalamus. These data show that TFEB 
activity alleviates some autophagy-lysosomal deficits caused by progranulin 
insufficiency, suggesting potential utility of lysosome-based therapies for 
GRN-associated diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-12268-0
PMCID: PMC12276339
PMID: 40683940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


90. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;12(8):100299. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100299.  Epub 2025 Jul 18.

Can non-pharmacological interventions change levels of neurofilament light in 
older adults at risk of dementia? A secondary analysis of the SCD-Well 
randomized clinical trial.

Masebo L(1), Whitfield T(1), Demnitz-King H(2), Heslegrave A(3), Poisnel G(4), 
Lutz A(5), Frison E(6), Wirth M(7), Hye A(8), Jessen F(9), Ashton NJ(10), 
Zetterberg H(11), Marchant NL(12).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, United Kingdom; 
Centre for Psychiatry and Mental Health, Wolfson Institute of Population Health, 
Queen Mary University, London, UK.
(3)Dementia Research Institute, UCL, London, UK; Department of Neurodegenerative 
Disease, Institute of Neurology, London, UK.
(4)Normandie University, UNICAEN, INSERM, U1237, PhIND "Physiopathology and 
Imaging of Neurological Disorders", NeuroPresage Team, Institut Blood and Brain 
@ Caen-Normandie, Cyceron, 14000 Caen, France.
(5)Lyon Neuroscience Research Center Inserm U1028, CNRS UMR5292, Lyon 1 
University, Lyon, France.
(6)Univ. Bordeaux, INSERM, Institut Bergonié, CHU Bordeaux, CIC1401-EC, 
EUCLID/F-CRIN clinical trials platform, F-33000 Bordeaux, France.
(7)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Dresden, Germany.
(8)Department of Old Age Psychiatry, King's College London Institute of 
Psychiatry Psychology and Neuroscience, London, UK.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Medical Faculty, University of Cologne, Cologne, 
Germany; Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated 
Diseases (CECAD), University of Cologne, Germany; German Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, Germany.
(10)Department of Old Age Psychiatry, King's College London Institute of 
Psychiatry Psychology and Neuroscience, London, UK; Department of Psychiatry and 
Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, the Sahlgrenska 
Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden; Centre for Age-Related 
Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, Norway; NIHR Biomedical 
Research Centre for Mental Health and Biomedical Research Unit for Dementia, 
South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation, London, UK.
(11)Dementia Research Institute, UCL, London, UK; Department of 
Neurodegenerative Disease, Institute of Neurology, London, UK; Department of 
Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, the 
Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden; Hong Kong 
Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, China; 
Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(12)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: n.marchant@ucl.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Older adults with subjective cognitive decline (SCD) and/or elevated 
neurofilament light (NfL), a neurodegeneration biomarker, are at increased risk 
of dementia. Non-pharmacological interventions offer a promising strategy for 
reducing dementia risk, yet none have utilized NfL as a marker of response in 
dementia prevention trials.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of two non-pharmacological interventions 
on NfL in older adults with SCD.
DESIGN: SCD-Well was an 8-week observer-blinded, randomized, clinical trial with 
6-month follow-up, and was a part of the Horizon 2020 European Union-funded 
"Medit-Ageing" project. Data were analyzed from June 2022 to August 2024.
SETTING: Memory clinics at four sites in France, Germany, Spain, and UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants were enrolled from March 2017 to January 2018 after 
fulfilling SCD research criteria and performing within the normal range on 
cognitive testing. Of the 147 participants enrolled, 140 were included in this 
secondary analysis (7 did not consent to venipuncture).
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomly allocated to the Caring 
Mindfulness-Based Approach for Seniors (CMBAS) intervention or a structurally 
matched Health Self-Management Program (HSMP).
MEASUREMENTS: Plasma NfL was measured at baseline (V1), post-intervention (V2), 
and 6-month follow-up (V3), using Single molecule array technology, and 
log-transformed for analyses.
RESULTS: 137 older adults with SCD provided NfL data (mean [SD] age: 72.7 [6.8] 
years; 62.0 % female; CMBAS, n = 70; HSMP, n = 67). NfL data were available at 
V1 (n = 136), V2 (n = 119) and V3 (n = 115). The visit-by-arm interaction was 
not statistically significant, and no significant changes in NfL were observed 
within the CMBAS or HSMP arms from V1 to V2. However, within the HSMP arm, NfL 
levels reduced from V1 to V3 (-0.10, 95 % confidence interval [-0.18 to -0.02]). 
Modified intention-to-treat analyses, which included 140 participants, supported 
these findings, and additionally recorded significant reductions in the HSMP arm 
from V1 to V2 (n = 140, -0.07 [-0.14 to -0.00]).
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, NfL levels were reduced at 6-month follow-up after a 
health self-management program. Future interventions with longer duration, 
extended follow-up and clinical endpoints will help clarify whether NfL 
reductions are sustained over extended timeframes and translate to lower 
dementia incidence.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: (NCT03005652).

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100299
PMCID: PMC12413708
PMID: 40683836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Henrik Zetterberg reports a 
relationship with Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB that includes: 
board membership. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Abbvie, Acumen, 
Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, 
AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, 
Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red 
Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, 
and Wave that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a 
relationship with Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, and Roche that includes: speaking and lecture fees. Nicholas J. Ashton 
reports a relationship with Alamar Bioscience, and Quanterix Corp that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Nicholas J. Ashton reports a relationship with Alamar 
Bioscience, Quanterix Corp, and Eli-Lilly that includes: speaking and lecture 
fees. Amanda Heslegrave reports a relationship with Quanterix Corp that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg is chair of the Alzheimer’s 
Association Global Biomarker Standardization Consortium. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


91. Trends Pharmacol Sci. 2025 Aug;46(8):738-751. doi:
10.1016/j.tips.2025.06.010.  Epub 2025 Jul 18.

TREM2 and LAG-3 in cancer and Alzheimer's disease immunotherapy.

Yuan S(1), Fuchs NS(1), Abdel-Rahman SA(1), Kaur B(1), Gabr MT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Molecular Imaging Innovations Institute (MI3), Weill 
Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10065, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, Molecular Imaging Innovations Institute (MI3), Weill 
Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10065, USA. Electronic address: 
mog4005@med.cornell.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cancer are immune-mediated disorders characterized 
by chronic neuroinflammation and immune evasion, respectively. Recent studies 
implicate two key immune regulators in both diseases: LAG-3, an adaptive immune 
checkpoint receptor, and TREM2, an innate receptor expressed on microglia and 
tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). LAG-3 inhibitors have demonstrated clinical 
efficacy in cancer and are being explored in AD research. TREM2 activation 
supports microglial function in AD, while its inhibition may counteract 
immunosuppressive macrophages in cancer. In this review we compare the roles, 
mechanisms, and therapeutic strategies targeting LAG-3 and TREM2 in both 
diseases. We highlight their distinct immune compartmentalization and the 
importance of context-specific modulation. Strategies include LAG-3 blockade in 
cancer and AD, and TREM2 agonism or antagonism depending on disease context. We 
discuss a framework integrating immune compartment, disease state, and 
therapeutic modality to guide cross-domain immunotherapy development in cancer 
and AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tips.2025.06.010
PMID: 40683793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


92. Farm Hosp. 2025 Jul 18:S1130-6343(25)00092-3. doi:
10.1016/j.farma.2025.06.004.  Online ahead of print.

New Alzheimer disease's treatments: Hope or disappointment.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Sevilla-Sánchez D(1), Garza-Martínez AJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Farmacia, Parc Sanitari Pere Virgili, Barcelona, España; Research 
Group on Aging, REFiT, Vall d'Hebron Institute of Research (VHIR), Barcelona, 
España. Electronic address: danielsevillasanchez@gmail.com.
(2)Servicio de Geriatría, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal (IRICYS), Madrid, 
España.

DOI: 10.1016/j.farma.2025.06.004
PMID: 40683768


93. Neurologia (Engl Ed). 2025 Sep;40(7):651-660. doi:
10.1016/j.nrleng.2025.07.002.  Epub 2025 Jul 17.

Development and concurrent validation of a retrogenetic instrument for the 
assessment of activities of daily living: the functional assessment scale of the 
Barcelona test.

Torrente M(1), Pino M(2), Peña-Casanova J(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Rovira i Virgili, Departmento de Psicología, Centro de 
Investigación en Evaluación y Medida de la Conducta (CRAMC), Tarragona, Spain; 
Universidad Rovira i Virgili, Facultad de Medicina y Ciencias de la Salud, 
Laboratorio de Toxicología y Salud Medioambiental, TECNATOX, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria Pere Virgili (IISPV), Reus, Spain; Instituto Lerin 
Neurocognitive, Asociación de Alzheimer y Otros Trastornos Neurocognitivos de 
Reus y Baix Camp, Reus, Spain. Electronic address: margarita.torrente@urv.cat.
(2)Hospital de Sant Pau y Santa Tecla, Tarragona, Spain.
(3)Grupo de Farmacología Integrada y Neurociencia de Sistemas, Programa de 
Neurociencias, Instituto Hospital del Mar de Investigaciones Médicas (IMIM), 
Barcelona, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: The assessment of activities of daily living (ADL) is considered 
essential in the evaluation of mild cognitive impairment (MCI), dementia and for 
its correct differential diagnosis. There are many scales for the functional 
assessment of these entities, although they are not exempt from drawbacks. The 
Barcelona Test ADL scale was published in 2019 with the aim of having a 
retrogenetic instrument that could overcome most of the problems encountered by 
its predecessors.
METHOD: A study was carried out to evaluate the properties of this scale. A 
total sample of 68 subjects (healthy controls, patients with amnestic-type MCI, 
and patients with Alzheimer's-type dementia) stratified according to the Global 
Cognitive Impairment Scale -Global Deterioration Scale- completed with the 
Functional Assessment Staging- Scale (GDS-FAST). The scores of each group on the 
scale, as well as on other cognitive tests, were studied to obtain the 
descriptive and internal consistency, concurrent validity, and discriminative 
capacity indices.
RESULTS: The scale means differed significantly between all stratification 
groups. A high internal consistency index was obtained (Cronbach's α 0.975), 
excellent concurrent validity (Spearman's ρ of 0.95) and very good 
discriminative capacity, especially between the GDS-FAST 3 and 4 groups, and the 
GDS-FAST 4 and 5 groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The Barcelona Test ADL scale allows adequately evaluating the 
retrogenetic functional level of patients and discriminating between the 
different phases of the GDS-FAST, positioning itself as a very complete and 
useful scale in our sociocultural environment.

Copyright © 2024 Sociedad Española de Neurología. Published by Elsevier España, 
S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nrleng.2025.07.002
PMID: 40683598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


94. Neuron. 2025 Jul 15:S0896-6273(25)00472-6. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2025.06.014.
 Online ahead of print.

Accelerating biomedical discoveries in brain health through transformative 
neuropathology of aging and neurodegeneration.

Murray ME(1), Smith C(2), Menon V(3), Keene CD(4), Lein E(5), Hawrylycz M(6), 
Aguzzi A(7), Benedetti B(8), Brose K(8), Caetano-Anolles K(9), Sillero MIC(10), 
Crary JF(11), De Jager PL(12), Faustin A(13), Flanagan ME(14), Gokce O(15), 
Grant SGN(2), Grinberg LT(16), Gutman DA(17), Hillman EMC(18), Huang Z(19), 
Irwin DJ(19), Jones DT(20), Kapasi A(21), Karch CM(22), Kukull WT(23), Lashley 
T(24), Lee EB(19), Lehner T(25), Parkkinen L(26), Pedersen M(25), Pritchett 
D(27), Rutledge MH(28), Schneider JA(21), Seeley WW(16), Shepherd CE(29), 
Spires-Jones TL(2), Steen JA(30), Sutherland M(8), Vickovic S(31), Zhang B(32), 
Stewart DJ(33), Keiser MJ(34), Vogel JW(35), Dugger BN(36), Phatnani H(37).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL, USA; 
Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, 
Jacksonville, FL, USA. Electronic address: murray.melissa@mayo.edu.
(2)Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(3)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA; Center for 
Translational and Computational Neuroimmunology, Department of Neurology, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA; Department of Laboratory Medicine and 
Pathology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.
(5)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, WA, USA; Department of Laboratory 
Medicine and Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(6)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, WA, USA.
(7)Institute of Neuropathology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(8)Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI), Redwood City, CA, USA.
(9)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
(10)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(11)Department of Pathology, Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, Department 
of Artificial Intelligence & Human Health, Neuropathology Brain Bank & Research 
CoRE, Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Friedman Brain Institute, 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(12)Center for Translational and Computational Neuroimmunology, Department of 
Neurology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA; Taub 
Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, Columbia 
University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(13)Department of Pathology, NYU Langone Health and NYU Grossman School of 
Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(14)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
University of Texas Health, San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA; Department of 
Pathology, University of Texas Health, San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(15)Department of Old Age Psychiatry and Cognitive Disorders, University 
Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(DZNE), Bonn, Germany.
(16)Memory and Aging Center, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(17)Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(18)Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute and Departments of Biomedical 
Engineering and Radiology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(19)Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA.
(20)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Department of 
Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(21)Rush University Medical Center, Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA.
(22)Department of Psychiatry, Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, 
Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(23)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.
(24)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, London, UK.
(25)New York Genome Center, New York, NY, USA.
(26)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Oxford Parkinson's Disease 
Center, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(27)Department of Biology, Howard University, Washington, DC, USA.
(28)Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL, 
USA.
(29)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, London, UK; School of Biomedical Sciences, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(30)Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; 
Neuroproteomics Laboratory, Kirby Center, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(31)New York Genome Center, New York, NY, USA; Department of Biomedical 
Engineering and Herbert Irving Institute for Cancer Dynamics, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, USA.
(32)Department of Genetics & Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(33)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY, USA.
(34)Institute for Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(35)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden; Department of Clinical Sciences, Malmö, SciLifeLab, 
Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(36)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California, 
Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.
(37)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA; New York 
Genome Center, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address: hphatnani@nygenome.org.

Transformative neuropathology is redefining human brain research by integrating 
foundational descriptive pathology with advanced methodologies. These 
approaches, spanning multi-omics studies and machine learning applications, will 
drive discovery for the identification of biomarkers, therapeutic targets, and 
complex disease patterns through comprehensive analyses of postmortem human 
brain tissue. Yet critical challenges remain, including the sustainability of 
brain banks, expanding donor participation, strengthening training pipelines, 
enabling rapid autopsies, supporting collaborative platforms, and integrating 
data across modalities. Innovations in digital pathology, tissue quality 
enhancement, harmonization of data standards, and machine learning integration 
offer opportunities to accelerate tissue-level "pathomics" research in brain 
health through cross-disciplinary collaborations. Lessons from neuroimaging, 
particularly in establishing common data frameworks and multi-site 
collaborations, offer a valuable roadmap for streamlining innovations. In this 
perspective, we outline actionable solutions for leveraging existing resources 
and strengthening collaboration -where we envision future opportunities to drive 
translational discoveries stemming from transformative neuropathology.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2025.06.014
PMCID: PMC12313173
PMID: 40683248

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests C.M.K. is a consultant 
for Eisai, Ltd. W.W.S. serves on the scientific advisory board for Lyterian 
Therapeutics. L.P. is funded by the Oxford GSK Institute of Molecular and 
Computational Medicine. D.J.I. holds unpaid professional affiliations with the 
Scientific Advisory Boards of the Lewy Body Dementia Association (LBDA) and the 
Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration (AFTD). His institution receives 
clinical trial funding from Denali, Prevail, Passage Bio, CervoMed, and 
Transposon. E.B.L. has received consulting fees from Eli Lilly and Wavebreak 
Therapeutics. T.L.S.-J. declares no conflicts directly related to this 
manuscript but has received payments for consulting, scientific talks, or 
collaborative research over the past 10 years from AbbVie, Sanofi, Merck, 
Scottish Brain Sciences, Jay Therapeutics, Cognition Therapeutics, Ono, and 
Eisai. She also serves as a charity trustee for the British Neuroscience 
Association and the Guarantors of Brain and as a scientific advisor to several 
charities and non-profit organizations. W.T.K. is supported by U24AG072122.


95. Int J Mol Med. 2025 Oct;56(4):147. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2025.5588. Epub 2025 Jul
 19.

Mechanism of action and therapeutic potential of S100A8/A9 in neuroinflammation 
and cognitive impairment: From molecular target to clinical application 
(Review).

Guan X(1), Zha L(1), Zhu X(1), Rao X(2), Huang X(2), Xiong Y(2), Guo Y(2), Zhang 
M(1), Zhou D(1), Tu Q(1), Wu J(1), Wang X(2), Hua F(2), Xu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Yingtan City People's Hospital, Yingtan, 
Jiangxi 335099, P.R. China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology of Jiangxi, Nanchang, Jiangxi 330006, P.R. 
China.

The complex of proteins S100A8/A9 has been recognized as a major initiator of 
cognitive disorder onset, including, but not restricted to, neuroinflammation. 
Cognitive impairment or decline in memory, attention and executive function has 
been on the rise and is a major public health priority. Several neurological 
conditions that affect the brain and cognitive processes, including central 
nervous system diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and stroke, and systemic 
diseases, such as sepsis and systemic lupus erythematosus, are associated with 
S100A8/A9. Experiments have progressively demonstrated that S100A8/A9 plays a 
role in cognitive decline, as it regulates cognitive domains, including sleep, 
learning, memory, and emotion control, via several mechanisms. In this review, a 
critical overview of the role of S100A8/A9 in the treatment of neurocognitive 
diseases is provided, including the regulation of brain function and the 
pathogenesis of diseases, and potential novel therapies are suggested. It is 
necessary to study S100A8/A9 alone as an alternative marker for the diagnosis 
and treatment of neurocognitive diseases, and in line with the requirements of 
therapy for cognitive impairment. As S100A8/A9 research continues, the 
understanding and treatment of neurocognitive diseases may improve.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2025.5588
PMCID: PMC12289131
PMID: 40682852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


96. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 19. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05223-7. Online ahead of 
print.

Golden Oyster Mushroom Extract Ameliorates Oxidative Stress-Induced Cell Death 
in Neurons and Scopolamine-Induced Cholinergic System Impairment in Mice.

Ryu HS(#)(1), Sanjay(#)(2)(3), Choi SK(4), Lee KH(4), Jang SS(4), Yang SY(5), 
Kwon YS(1), Ku SK(6), Lee HJ(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Surgery, College of Veterinary Medicine, Kyungpook 
National University, Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, College of BioNano Technology, Gachon 
University, 1342 Seongnamdaero, Sujeong-Gu, Seongnam-Si, 13120, Gyeonggi-Do, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Institute for Aging and Clinical Nutrition Research, Gachon University, 
Seongnam, Republic of Korea.
(4)DAEDONG KOREA GINSENG CO., LTD, Geumsan, Republic of Korea.
(5)SHINWOO CO., LTD, Anyang, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Anatomy and Histology, College of Korean Medicine, Daegu Haany 
University, Gyeongsan, 38610, Republic of Korea. gucci200@hanmail.net.
(7)Department of Food and Nutrition, College of BioNano Technology, Gachon 
University, 1342 Seongnamdaero, Sujeong-Gu, Seongnam-Si, 13120, Gyeonggi-Do, 
Republic of Korea. skysea@gachon.ac.kr.
(8)Institute for Aging and Clinical Nutrition Research, Gachon University, 
Seongnam, Republic of Korea. skysea@gachon.ac.kr.
(9)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Gachon Advanced Institute for 
Health Science and Technology (GAIHST), Gachon University, Incheon, Republic of 
Korea. skysea@gachon.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

Impaired cholinergic system is an important therapeutic target to develop drugs 
against Alzheimer's disease (AD), as cholinergic signal transduction is 
associated with the memory, learning, and behavior of an individual. 
Acetylcholine (ACh) is an important neurotransmitter and is degraded by an 
enzyme, acetylcholinesterase (AChE), blocking neuronal signal transmission, 
which leads to amnesia or memory loss. Oxidative stress (OS) also worsens AD 
pathology by damaging lipids, proteins and DNA of the neuronal cells, leading to 
neuronal cell death. Golden oyster mushroom (GOM), an edible mushroom native to 
the regions of Japan, Korea, Russia, and China, has been reported to possess 
several bioactivities. However, there is no study reported till date, studying 
the anti-amnesic properties of GOM. The objectives of this study were to 
assimilate the in vitro neuroprotective and in vivo anti-amnesic properties of 
GOM. The GOM at 0.1, 0.5, 1, 5, and 10 mg/ml was nontoxic and was able to 
prevent H2O2 (500 µM) and glutamate (5 mM)-induced OS-mediated cell death in 
HT-22 cells. In addition, all the selected concentrations of GOM extract (50, 
100, and 200 mg/kg, 28 days) were able to prevent scopolamine (ACh receptor 
antagonist, 1 mg/kg, 1 h post-treatment after the 7th, 14th, and 28th 
administrations)-induced cholinergic system impairment, memory loss, 
histopathological alteration, antioxidant defense system disruption, and reduced 
memory susceptibility markers in C57BL mice compared to the positive control 
tacrine (10 mg/kg, 28 days). In conclusion, GOM extract emerged as a natural 
AChE inhibitor and could be seen as a potential therapeutic AD agent.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05223-7
PMID: 40682719

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Animal Ethics Declaration: All 
animal experiments were performed in accordance with national regulations of the 
usage and welfare of laboratory animals and approved by the Institutional Animal 
Care and Use Committee in Daegu Haany University (Gyeongsan, Gyeongbuk, Korea) 
[Approval No. DHU2024-028]. Competing Interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


97. Bull Exp Biol Med. 2025 May;179(1):127-134. doi: 10.1007/s10517-025-06446-3. 
Epub 2025 Jul 19.

The Study of Cognitive Functions of Rats with Experimental Alzheimer's Disease 
after Transplantation of Transduced Olfactory Ensheathing Cells Expressing Nerve 
Growth Factor.

Karsuntseva EK(1), Voronova AD(2), Shishkina VS(2), Pokidko VY(3), Mukhina 
AI(2)(3), Chadin AV(2), Fursa GA(2)(4)(5), Fedorov AV(3), Stepanova OV(2)(5), 
Chekhonin VP(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)V. Serbsky National Medical Research Centre for Psychiatry and Narcology, 
Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation, Moscow, Russia. 
katya.karsunceva@gmail.com.
(2)V. Serbsky National Medical Research Centre for Psychiatry and Narcology, 
Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation, Moscow, Russia.
(3)Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia.
(4)Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University (Pirogov University), 
Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation, Moscow, Russia.
(5)National Medical Research Centre of Cardiology named after academician E. I. 
Chazov, Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation, Moscow, Russia.

We evaluated the efficiency of transplantation of a gene-cell construct based on 
olfactory ensheathing cells expressing neurotrophic NGF in female Wistar rats 
with an experimental model of Alzheimer's disease. NGF improved long-term memory 
and learning ability in the passive avoidance test at week 3 after cell 
transplantation.

© 2025. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10517-025-06446-3
PMID: 40682644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Neuromodulation. 2025 Jul 18:S1094-7159(25)00227-2. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurom.2025.06.002. Online ahead of print.

Cerebral Blood Flow Responses to Extracranial Alternating Current Brain 
Stimulation in CVN Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease: A Pilot Study Determining 
Optimal Dose.

Degan S(1), Feng Y(2), Colton C(3), Schmidt S(4), Peterchev AV(5), Turner DA(6).

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; Research and 
Surgery Services, Durham VA Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.
(2)Neurosurgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.
(3)Neurology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.
(4)Neurosurgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; Biomedical 
Engineering, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.
(5)Neurosurgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; Biomedical 
Engineering, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; Electrical and 
Computer Engineering, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(6)Neurosurgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; Biomedical 
Engineering, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; Neurobiology, Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; Research and Surgery Services, 
Durham VA Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA. Electronic address: 
dennis.turner@duke.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Insufficient metabolic supply in response to neural demand is a 
key mechanism of degeneration in Alzheimer's disease [AD]. However, extracranial 
alternating current [AC] stimulation can increase cerebral blood flow [CBF] and 
metabolic substrate supply to the brain. In this work, we investigate in an 
initial, pilot study the optimal dosage of extracranial AC brain stimulation 
appropriate for long-term treatment to retard degeneration in a mouse AD model 
[CVN].
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We applied extracranial AC (0.5-2.0 mA; 10 Hz; 20-second 
bursts) to CVN and control C57Bl/6 mice while measuring CBF and intracerebral 
electric field in vivo in anesthetized animals, and behavioral responses in 
awake animals.
RESULTS: We found a significant, diffuse increase in cortical CBF (2.6% increase 
at 0.75 mA) and intracerebral electric field (6.36mV/mm gradient at 0.75 mA) in 
response to extracranial AC brain stimulation in both CVN and control mice. In 
awake, behaving mice, the optimal dose of stimulation was 0.75 mA (in 30-second 
bursts), causing no adverse behavioral effects.
CONCLUSION: Scheduled (at fixed times) or demand-triggered (during dynamic 
metabolic need) bursts of extracranial brain stimulation could enhance CBF to 
improve brain metabolic supply. The goal of this potential AD treatment is to 
alleviate mismatches between neural metabolic demand and brain substrate supply, 
to prevent AD phenotypic disease progression. Based on these pilot data, 0.75 mA 
is an optimal stimulation treatment dose leading to an appreciable net change in 
CBF, at a moderate intracranial electrical field, while also indicating 
behavioral tolerability, now being implemented in a long-term treatment trial.

Copyright © 2025 International Neuromodulation Society. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurom.2025.06.002
PMCID: PMC12313132
PMID: 40682580

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Angel Peterchev is an 
inventor on patents on transcranial magnetic stimulation technology and has 
received equity options, scientific advisory board membership, and consulting 
fees from Ampa Health; patent royalties and consulting fees from Rogue Research; 
consulting fees and equity options from Magnetic Tides; consulting fees from 
Soterix Medical; equipment loan from MagVenture; and research funding from 
Motif. The remaining authors reported no conflict of interest.


99. Mov Disord. 2025 Sep;40(9):1805-1820. doi: 10.1002/mds.30302. Epub 2025 Jul
18.

Unravelling the Global Tapestry of Genetic Ataxias: Epidemiology and Genetic 
Testing Approaches.

Rossi M(1)(2), Stephen CD(3), Damásio J(4)(5)(6), Pedroso JL(7), Kuo SH(8)(9), 
Lin CR(10), Ojo O(11)(12), El-Jaafary S(13), Lee WW(14), Madoev H(15), 
Barsottini OGP(7), Srivastava AK(16), Klein C(15), van de Warrenburg BP(17).

Author information:
(1)Sección de Movimientos Anormales, Departamento de Neurología, Fleni, Buenos 
Aires, Argentina.
(2)Instituto Fleni-CONICET (INEU) Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Ataxia Center, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Neurology Department, Centro Hospitalar Universitário de Santo António, 
Porto, Portugal.
(5)Genetic Epidemiology and Epigenetics, UMIB-Unit for Multidisciplinary 
Research in Biomedicine, ICBAS, School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, 
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(6)CGPP - Center for Predictive and Preventive Genetics, IBMC - Institute for 
Molecular and Celll Biology, i3S - Instituto de Investigação e Inovaçaão em 
Saúde Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(7)Department of Neurology, Ataxia Unit, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(8)Department of Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New 
York, USA.
(9)Initiative of Columbia Ataxia and Tremor, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, New York, USA.
(10)Alzheimer's Disease and Parkinson's Disease Centers, Department of 
Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.
(11)College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria.
(12)Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Lagos, Nigeria.
(13)Neurology Department, Kasr Al-Ainy School of Medicine, Cairo University, 
Cairo, Egypt.
(14)Department of Neurology, Nowon Eulji Medical Center, Eulji University, 
Seoul, Korea.
(15)Institute of Neurogenetics, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.
(16)Department of Neurology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
India.
(17)Department of Neurology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.

The landscape of genetic ataxias is influenced by migration, population 
genetics, consanguinity, and founder effects, resulting in significant regional 
variation. Within the expanding domain of genetic ataxias, knowledge of regional 
epidemiology is scarce, particularly outside of North America and Europe. 
Understanding the epidemiology of genetic ataxias, together with deep 
phenotyping and knowledge of the appropriate ancillary studies, is crucial for 
the development and deployment of diagnostic testing strategies. This review 
offers a comprehensive, data-driven overview of 2932 articles with regional 
epidemiological estimates and the occurrence and prevalence of 548 genes 
associated with ataxia across 122 countries. Regional differences in 
epidemiology and phenotypic spectra are highlighted, driving an approach that 
incorporates complementary diagnostic test results and how these may inform 
cost-effective, region-specific genetic testing. All data are also publicly 
available as an online database, the MDSGene Global Genetic Ataxia Resource, 
accessible at https://www.mdsgene.org/ataxia.html. A phenotype-guided, tailored, 
and sequential testing approach is proposed, based on regional prevalence, to 
assist clinicians worldwide in diagnosing individuals with presumed genetic 
ataxia, of which at least 45 causes are treatable. This approach is particularly 
important in underserved regions, but also in developed countries where health 
systems limit access to genetic testing, improving the cost-effectiveness and 
feasibility of genetic testing in these areas. Future screening studies in 
high-income settings should adopt a more comprehensive approach, integrating 
broader genetic testing that covers the full range of genetic ataxias. Capacity 
building for genetic screening in underserved regions, particularly in Africa, 
South America, and the Middle East, should be prioritized. © 2025 International 
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2025 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.30302
PMCID: PMC12291621
PMID: 40682316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.D., J.L.P., C.-Y. R.L., W.-W.L., H.M., 
O.G.P.B., and A.K.S. report no conflict of interest. M.R. has served on an 
advisory board for Biogen and has received honoraria for talks from the 
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society and Biogen. C.D.S. has 
provided scientific advisory for SwanBio Therapeutics and received research 
funding from Sanofi-Genzyme for a study of video oculography in late-onset GM2 
gangliosidosis and a National Institutes of Health (NIH) grant (K23 NS118045). 
His institution has received financial support from Sanofi-Genzyme, SwanBio 
Therapeutics, Encora Therapeutics and Biogen, and previously Biohaven, for the 
conduct of clinical trials. He has received honoraria from the American Academy 
of Neurology and the International Parkinson and Movement Disorders Society. He 
has received grant support from NIH K23 NS118045. S.-H.K. has served on an 
advisory boards for Biogen, Praxis Precision Medicines, and Yoda 
Pharmaceuticals. O.O. is a co-investigator on grants from the National Institute 
of Health and Care Research, UK (Transforming Parkinson’s Care in Africa 
NIHR133391) and has received honoraria for talks from the International 
Parkinson and Movement Disorders Society, GBA1-Canada (G-Can), and travel 
support from the International Parkinson and Movement Disorders Society, Global 
Parkinson’s Genetics Program (GP2), and G-Can. S.E.-J. has received honoraria 
for talks from the International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society, and 
has a successful grant application for 2024-2025 pilot awards for global health 
leaders. C.K. has served as a medical advisor to Centogene, Takeda, and the 
Lundbeck Foundation and has received speakers’ honoraria from Bial and royalties 
from Oxford University Press and Georg Thieme Verlag. B.v.d.W. served on 
advisory boards and/or provided paid consultancy to Biogen, Vico Therapeutics, 
and Biohaven; receives research support from Hersenstichting, ZonMw, Dutch 
Research Council, FARA, and Christina Foundation; and receives royalities from 
BSL/Springer-Nature.


100. CNS Drugs. 2025 Oct;39(10):1011-1023. doi: 10.1007/s40263-025-01200-9. Epub
2025  Jul 19.

Safety and Tolerability of Brexpiprazole in Participants with Agitation 
Associated with Dementia due to Alzheimer's Disease: Pooled Analysis of Three 
Randomized Trials and an Extension Trial.

Shah A(1), Estilo A(1), Sheridan PL(2), Kalu U(2), Chen D(1), Chang D(1), 
Slomkowski M(1), Lee D(1), Hefting N(3), Hobart M(1), Behl S(1), Such P(4), 
Brubaker M(1), Grossberg GT(5).

Author information:
(1)Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization Inc, Princeton, NJ, 
USA.
(2)Lundbeck LLC, Deerfield, IL, USA.
(3)H. Lundbeck A/S, Ottiliavej 9, 2500, Valby, Denmark.
(4)H. Lundbeck A/S, Ottiliavej 9, 2500, Valby, Denmark. PSU@lundbeck.com.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, Saint Louis University 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Older adults with dementia are particularly vulnerable 
to antipsychotic side effects. Brexpiprazole, an atypical antipsychotic, is 
approved in a number of countries for the treatment of agitation associated with 
dementia due to Alzheimer's disease. This pooled analysis aimed to evaluate the 
safety and tolerability of brexpiprazole in this patient population.
METHODS: Data were included from three Phase 3, 12-week, randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trials and a Phase 3, 12-week, active-treatment 
extension trial in participants with agitation associated with dementia due to 
Alzheimer's disease. Safety outcomes included treatment-emergent adverse events 
(TEAEs), weight change, suicidality, extrapyramidal symptoms, and cognitive 
dysfunction. Two datasets were considered: a 12-week dataset that pooled data 
from the three randomized trials for brexpiprazole 0.5-3 mg/day and placebo, and 
a 24-week dataset that combined data from the parent randomized trial and the 
extension trial for brexpiprazole 2-3 mg/day.
RESULTS: Over 12 weeks, 335/655 (51.1%) participants on brexpiprazole and 
178/388 (45.9%) participants on placebo reported ≥ 1 TEAE, which led to 
discontinuation in 41 (6.3%) and 13 (3.4%) participants, respectively. Headache 
was the only TEAE with incidence ≥ 5% (brexpiprazole, 50 [7.6%] participants; 
placebo, 36 [9.3%] participants). The incidences of cerebrovascular TEAEs 
(brexpiprazole, 0.5%; placebo, 0.3%), cardiovascular TEAEs (3.7%; 2.3%), 
extrapyramidal symptom-related TEAEs (5.3%; 3.1%), and somnolence/sedation TEAEs 
(3.7%; 1.8%) were generally similar between treatment groups. Six (0.9%) 
participants on brexpiprazole and 1 (0.3%) participant on placebo died; causes 
of death were not considered related to brexpiprazole and were generally in line 
with those expected in Alzheimer's disease. Over 24 weeks, 110/226 (48.7%) 
participants on brexpiprazole reported ≥ 1 TEAE, which led to discontinuation in 
19 (8.4%) participants. Headache was the only TEAE with incidence ≥ 5% (18 
[8.0%] participants). No participants died during the extension trial. Over 12 
and 24 weeks, mean changes in weight, suicidality, and extrapyramidal symptoms 
were minimal, with no worsening of cognition.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering pooled data from > 1000 participants on brexpiprazole 
or placebo, brexpiprazole appears to be generally well tolerated for up to 24 
weeks in participants with agitation associated with dementia due to Alzheimer's 
disease.
STUDY REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers: NCT01862640, NCT01922258, 
NCT03548584, NCT03594123.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40263-025-01200-9
PMCID: PMC12423206
PMID: 40681915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Funding: This work was supported 
by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization Inc. (Princeton, NJ, 
USA) and H. Lundbeck A/S (Valby, Denmark). The sponsors were involved in the 
design of the research, the analysis and interpretation of data, and the writing 
and reviewing of this article. The sponsors paid the open access fee. Conflicts 
of interest: Alpesh Shah, Dalei Chen, Denise Chang, Mary Slomkowski, Mary 
Hobart, and Malaak Brubaker are full-time employees of Otsuka Pharmaceutical 
Development & Commercialization Inc. Alvin Estilo, Daniel Lee, and Saloni Behl 
were full-time employees of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & 
Commercialization Inc. at the time of this work. Pamela L. Sheridan was a 
full-time employee of Lundbeck LLC at the time of this work. Uwa Kalu is a 
full-time employee of Lundbeck LLC. Nanco Hefting and Pedro Such are full-time 
employees of H. Lundbeck A/S. George T Grossberg has received consulting fees 
from Acadia, Abbott, Axsome, Biogen, BMS, BioXcel, Eisai, Karuna, Lundbeck, 
MapLight Therapeutics, Otsuka, and Takeda. George T. Grossberg is on the 
Editorial Board for CNS Drugs, Journal of the American Medical Directors 
Association, and International Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease; he was not 
involved in the selection of peer reviewers for this manuscript nor any of the 
subsequent editorial decisions. He is on Safety Monitoring Committees for 
Anavex, Quince, Merck, Newron, and Oligomerix. Availability of data and 
material: To submit inquiries related to Otsuka clinical research, or to request 
access to individual participant data (IPD) associated with any Otsuka clinical 
trial, please visit https://clinical-trials.otsuka.com/ . For all approved IPD 
access requests, Otsuka will share anonymized IPD on a remotely accessible data 
sharing platform. Ethics approval: This analysis used pooled data from published 
clinical trials. The trials were approved by relevant institutional review 
boards and independent ethics committees and were performed in accordance with 
the ethical standards as laid down in the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki and its 
later amendments. Code availability: Not applicable. Consent to publish: Not 
applicable. Consent to participate: This analysis used pooled data from 
published clinical trials. All participants and/or their legal representatives 
provided written or electronic informed consent prior to the start of the 
trials. Author contributions: All authors contributed to the study conception 
and design. Data analysis was performed by Dalei Chen and Denise Chang. All 
authors critically reviewed the manuscript for intellectual content. All authors 
read and approved the final manuscript.