1. Mol Metab. 2024 Dec;90:102060. doi: 10.1016/j.molmet.2024.102060. Epub 2024
Oct  29.

Multi-omics after O-GlcNAc alteration identified cellular processes promoting 
aneuploidy after loss of O-GlcNAc transferase.

Boyd SS(1), Robarts DR(2), Nguyen K(3), Villar M(3), Alghusen IM(3), Kotulkar 
M(2), Denson A(3), Fedosyuk H(3), Whelan SA(4), Lee NCY(5), Hanover J(6), Dias 
WB(7), Tan EP(8), McGreal SR(9), Artigues A(3), Swerdlow RH(10), Thompson 
JA(11), Apte U(2), Slawson C(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutics, Kansas City, KS, 
USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
KS, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA; Precision 
Biomarker Laboratories, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Beverly Hills, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Chemistry, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA; Koch Institute 
for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA, USA.
(6)Laboratory of Cell Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, National Institute of 
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD, USA.
(7)Federal University of Rio De Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
KS, USA; Department of Chemistry, Neurodegeneration New Medicines Center, and 
the Skaggs Institute of Chemical Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La 
Jolla, CA, USA.
(9)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutics, Kansas City, KS, 
USA; XenoTech, A BioIVT Company, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(10)Department of Biochemistry, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas 
City, KS, USA; Department of Neurology, University of Kansas Medical Center, 
Kansas City, KS, USA; University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 
KS, USA.
(11)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City, KS, USA; University of Kansas Cancer Center, Kansas City, 
KS, USA.
(12)Department of Biochemistry, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas 
City, KS, USA; University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, KS, 
USA; University of Kansas Cancer Center, Kansas City, KS, USA. Electronic 
address: cslawson@kumc.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Apr 16:2024.04.16.589379. doi: 10.1101/2024.04.16.589379.

OBJECTIVE: Pharmacologic or genetic manipulation of O-GlcNAcylation, an 
intracellular, single sugar post-translational modification, are difficult to 
interpret due to the pleotropic nature of O-GlcNAc and the vast signaling 
pathways it regulates.
METHOD: To address the pleotropic nature of O-GlcNAc, we employed either OGT 
(O-GlcNAc transferase), OGA (O-GlcNAcase) liver knockouts, or pharmacological 
inhibition of OGA coupled with multi-Omics analysis and bioinformatics.
RESULTS: We identified numerous genes, proteins, phospho-proteins, or 
metabolites that were either inversely or equivalently changed between 
conditions. Moreover, we identified pathways in OGT knockout samples associated 
with increased aneuploidy. To test and validate these pathways, we induced liver 
growth in OGT knockouts by partial hepatectomy. OGT knockout livers showed a 
robust aneuploidy phenotype with disruptions in mitosis, nutrient sensing, 
protein metabolism/amino acid metabolism, stress response, and HIPPO signaling 
demonstrating how OGT is essential in controlling aneuploidy pathways.
CONCLUSION: These data show how a multi-Omics platform can disentangle the 
pleotropic nature of O-GlcNAc to discern how OGT fine-tunes multiple cellular 
pathways involved in aneuploidy.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmet.2024.102060
PMCID: PMC11585826
PMID: 39481848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Chad Slawson reports financial 
support was provided by National Institutes of Health. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


2. Int J Biol Macromol. 2024 Dec;282(Pt 4):136860. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.136860. Epub 2024 Oct 29.

Identification, biological evaluation, and crystallographic analysis of 
coumestrol as a novel dual-specificity tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinase 
1A inhibitor.

Peng CH(1), Hwang TL(2), Hung SC(3), Tu HJ(4), Tseng YT(5), Lin TE(4), Lee 
CC(6), Tseng YC(6), Ko CY(7), Yen SC(8), Hsu KC(9), Pan SL(9), HuangFu WC(10).

Author information:
(1)Ph.D. Program for Cancer Molecular Biology and Drug Discovery, College of 
Medical Science and Technology, Taipei Medical University and Academia Sinica, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Research Center for Chinese Herbal Medicine and Graduate Institute of Healthy 
Industry Technology, College of Human Ecology, Chang Gung University of Science 
and Technology, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Natural Products, College 
of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Department of Chemical 
Engineering, Ming Chi University of Technology, New Taipei City, Taiwan; 
Department of Anesthesiology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, 
Taiwan; Department of Animal Science and Technology, National Taiwan University, 
Taiwan.
(4)Graduate Institute of Cancer Biology and Drug Discovery, College of Medical 
Science and Technology, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Animal Science and Technology, National Taiwan University, 
Taiwan.
(6)The Ph.D. Program for Translational Medicine, College of Medical Science and 
Technology, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(7)School of Medicine, College of Medicine, National Sun Yat-sen University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(8)Warshel Institute for Computational Biology, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong (Shenzhen), Shenzhen, Guangdong, People's Republic of China.
(9)Graduate Institute of Cancer Biology and Drug Discovery, College of Medical 
Science and Technology, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Ph.D. Program 
for Cancer Molecular Biology and Drug Discovery, College of Medical Science and 
Technology, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; TMU Research Center of 
Cancer Translational Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(10)Graduate Institute of Cancer Biology and Drug Discovery, College of Medical 
Science and Technology, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Ph.D. Program 
for Cancer Molecular Biology and Drug Discovery, College of Medical Science and 
Technology, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; TMU Research Center of 
Cancer Translational Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
Electronic address: clarehf@tmu.edu.tw.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible neurodegenerative disease, with tau 
pathology caused by abnormally activated dual-specificity 
tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A) being one of the culprits. 
Coumestrol, a phytoestrogen and natural antioxidant found in various plants, has 
been reported to alleviate AD, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. We 
confirmed coumestrol as a novel DYRK1A inhibitor through enzyme-based assays, 
X-ray crystallography, and cell line experiments. Coumestrol exhibited minimal 
cytotoxicity at concentrations up to 100 μM in cell types such as N2A and 
SH-SY5Y and reduced DYRK1A-induced phosphorylated tau protein levels by >50 % at 
60 μM. In the tau protein phosphorylation and microtubule assembly assay, 
coumestrol at 30 μM reduced phosphorylated tau by >50 % and restored the 
microtubule assembly process. Coumestrol also significantly reduced amyloid-β 
(Aβ)-induced oxidative stress in microglia at 1 μM. In zebrafish larvae 
co-overexpressing DYRK1A and tau, coumestrol mitigated neuronal damage and 
protected motor function at 48 h-postfertilization. Our results suggest that 
coumestrol has potential therapeutic effects in AD by inhibiting DYRK1A, 
lowering p-Tau levels, restoring microtubule assembly, and protecting microglia 
cells from Aβ-induced cell death, providing new insights into the development of 
coumestrol as a potential AD treatment.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.136860
PMID: 39481728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interests.


3. Fitoterapia. 2025 Jan;180:106279. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2024.106279. Epub 2024
 Oct 29.

Biochemometric-guided isolation of new Isosteroidal alkaloids from Fritillaria 
cirrhosa D.Don (Liliaceae, syn. Fritillaria roylei Hook) as acetylcholinesterase 
inhibitors.

Bora PS(1), Puri S(1), Singh PP(1), Sharma U(2).

Author information:
(1)C-H Activation & Phytochemistry Lab, Chemical Technology Division, 
CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology, Palampur 176061, India; 
Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad 201002, India.
(2)C-H Activation & Phytochemistry Lab, Chemical Technology Division, 
CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology, Palampur 176061, India; 
Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad 201002, India. 
Electronic address: upendra@ihbt.res.in.

Globally, Alzheimer's disease is an urgent public health concern with the ageing 
population in developing nations. Recent studies have identified isosteroidal 
alkaloids as promising therapeutic agents for Alzheimer's treatment. Fritillaria 
species are well-known rich sources of steroidal and isosteroidal alkaloids. In 
this context, the current study focuses on the biochemometric-guided isolation 
of three previously undescribed and two known isosteroidal alkaloids as 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors from the bulbs of Fritillaria cirrhosa 
D.Don. The isolated molecules were characterized by NMR, HR-ESI-MS, FT-IR, and 
DP4+ analysis. Subsequently, all isolates were evaluated for AChE inhibitory 
activity using Ellman's method. Among the evaluated molecules, 1 (IC50: 
33.0 ± 4.4 μM) and 5 (IC50: 24.7 ± 4.5 μM) showed promising AChE inhibition in 
vitro. Enzyme kinetic studies of isolated molecules revealed mixed inhibition 
kinetics with Ki varying from 1.3 to 24.4 μM. Moreover, the in silico studies 
showed excellent binding affinities of isolated molecules with the target 
protein and good drug-like ADMET properties. The present study identified new 
isosteroidal alkaloids as promising AChE inhibitors from F. cirrhosa bulbs via a 
biochemometric approach and advocated their further exploration for treating 
neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2024.106279
PMID: 39481613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


4. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Jan 5;281:117003. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.117003. Epub
 2024 Oct 28.

Natural phenol carbamates: Selective BuChE/FAAH dual inhibitors show 
neuroprotection in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model.

Rong K(1), Li Z(1), Wu X(1), Gao S(1), Zhao J(1), Yang J(1), Jiang X(1), Zhang 
J(2), Tang W(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Major Autoimmune 
Diseases, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, 230032, PR China.
(2)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Occupational Health, Anhui No. 2 Provincial 
People's Hospital, Hefei, 230041, PR China. Electronic address: 
hfzj2552@163.com.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Major Autoimmune 
Diseases, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, 230032, PR China; Anhui Province Key 
Laboratory of Occupational Health, Anhui No. 2 Provincial People's Hospital, 
Hefei, 230041, PR China. Electronic address: ahmupharm@126.com.

FAAH inhibition can indirectly enhance endocannabinoid signaling to therapeutic 
levels, effectively preventing or slowing its progression of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Hence, the search for effective dual FAAH/cholinesterase inhibitors is 
considerable need for disease-modifying therapies. To this aim, we designed, 
synthesized, and tested three series of natural phenol carbamates. The majority 
of carbamates proved to be potent on a single target, amongst them, compound D12 
containing paeonol motif was identified as an effective dual BuChE/FAAH 
inhibitor, with well-balanced nanomolar activity (IC50 = 81 and 400 nM for 
hBuChE and hFFAH, respectively). D12 possessed BBB penetrating ability, benign 
safety, neuroprotection and pseudo-irreversible BuChE inhibition (Kd = 2.11 μM, 
k2 = 2.27 min-1), showing good drug-like properties. D12 also modulated the BV2 
microglial polarization to inhibit neuroinflammation. In vivo study verified 
that D12 improved Aβ1-41-induced learning impairments in AD mouse model for both 
short- and long-term memory responses. Thus, the dual activity of D12 could lead 
to a potentially more effective treatment for the counteraction of AD 
progression.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.117003
PMID: 39481228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: The authors declare that they have 
no conflict of interests.


5. Bioorg Chem. 2024 Dec;153:107916. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2024.107916. Epub 2024
 Oct 24.

Tyrosine modifications of insulin-degrading enzyme enable favorable control of 
substrate specificity for both Alzheimer's disease and type-2 diabetes mellitus.

Hatakawa Y(1), Takeuchi Y(1), Lee SH(1), Oe T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bio-Analytical Chemistry, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Tohoku University, 6-3 Aramaki-Aoba, Aoba-Ku, Sendai 980-8578, Japan.
(2)Department of Bio-Analytical Chemistry, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Tohoku University, 6-3 Aramaki-Aoba, Aoba-Ku, Sendai 980-8578, Japan. 
Electronic address: t-oe@mail.pharm.tohoku.ac.jp.

Insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) cleaves amyloid beta (Aβ), insulin, and other 
bioactive peptides. Because Aβ and insulin are closely related to Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), respectively, IDE is a 
candidate drug target for treating both AD and T2DM. However, the activity of 
IDE has opposing effects, including decreasing AD risk by degrading Aβ and 
increasing T2DM risk by degrading insulin. The opposed substrate specificity is 
associated with the exo- and active sites containing Tyr314 and Tyr831 residues, 
the plausible modification targets for controlling substrate specificity. In 
this study, we used a tyrosine-specific modification regent, Cookson reagent 
(4-phenyl-1,2,4-triazoline-3,5-dione, PTAD), for IDE and examined the 
degradation activities on Aβ40 and insulin. Fifteen tyrosine residues, including 
Tyr314 and Tyr831, were modified by PTAD. After incubation with PTAD-modified 
IDE for 3 days, insulin remained intact, whereas Aβ40 was completely degraded. 
This favorable change of substrate specificity was also observed in the mixture 
of Aβ40 and insulin, suggesting that tyrosine modification of IDE might be a 
therapeutic strategy for AD and T2DM.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2024.107916
PMID: 39481143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


6. JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Oct 1;7(10):e2442353. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.42353.

Modeling the Population Equity of Alzheimer Disease Treatments in the US.

Synnott PG(1), Majda T(2), Lin PJ(1), Ollendorf DA(1), Zhu Y(1), Kowal S(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Evidence for Access, Public Affairs and Access, Genentech, San Francisco, 
California.

Erratum in
    JAMA Netw Open. 2024 Dec 2;7(12):e2454628. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.54628.

IMPORTANCE: The arrival of new medications for Alzheimer disease (AD) has 
prompted efforts to measure their value using conventional cost-effectiveness 
analyses; however, these analyses focus on how much health improvement new 
medications generate per dollar spent. As AD disproportionately affects older 
adults, women, racial and ethnic minority individuals, and individuals with 
lower socioeconomic and educational levels, it is critical to also examine the 
health equity outcomes of treatment.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the health equity impact of a hypothetical 
disease-modifying treatment for early AD in the US and to examine targeted 
policies to mitigate health care disparities.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This economic evaluation, which used a 
distributional cost-effectiveness analysis, was conducted from June 16, 2022, to 
January 11, 2024. The study included subgroups defined by race and ethnicity and 
by social vulnerability quintiles in the US.
EXPOSURES: A hypothetical disease-modifying treatment compared with best 
supportive care.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The main outcomes were population-level 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), lifetime costs, and net health benefits. 
The social welfare impact and change in health inequality were estimated using 
the Atkinson index.
RESULTS: The distributional cost-effectiveness analysis simulated 316 037 100 
individuals from the US population, including 25 subgroups defined by 5 
categories of race and ethnicity and population quintiles of social 
vulnerability, with the fifth quintile representing the most socially vulnerable 
group. At an opportunity cost benchmark of $150 000 per QALY, treatment was 
associated with improved population health, adding 28 197 QALYs per year to the 
US population. Accounting for health inequality preferences (using an aversion 
level of 11, based on an Atkinson inequality aversion parameter that can range 
from 0 to infinity, with higher values assigning greater weight to health gains 
that accrue to the population with the lowest lifetime quality-adjusted life 
expectancy), treatment was associated with a 0.009% reduction in existing 
population health inequalities annually. Scenario analyses examining earlier and 
expanded treatment access suggested a population health improvement of up to 
221 358 QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The findings of this economic evaluation suggest that 
treatment for AD could improve population health and health equity. Policies to 
enable earlier diagnosis and treatment initiation, as well as expanded access to 
treatment, may further improve treatment and health equity impacts.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.42353
PMCID: PMC11528311
PMID: 39480421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Ms Synnott 
reported receiving receiving personal fees from Eli Lilly for consulting outside 
the submitted work. Dr Majda reported having stock options in Roche during the 
conduct of the study. Dr Lin reported receiving personal fees from Eli Lilly 
outside the submitted work. Dr Zhu reported having stock options in Eli Lilly 
outside the submitted work. Ms Kowal reported serving as the volunteer chair for 
the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research Inc Health 
Equity Research Special Interest Group and having stock options in Roche during 
the conduct of the study.


7. J Chem Inf Model. 2024 Dec 23;64(24):9040-9047. doi: 10.1021/acs.jcim.4c01481.
 Epub 2024 Oct 31.

AlzyFinder: A Machine-Learning-Driven Platform for Ligand-Based Virtual 
Screening and Network Pharmacology.

Valero-Rojas J(1)(2), Ramírez-Sánchez C(3), Pacheco-Paternina L(1), 
Valenzuela-Hormazabal P(1), Saldivar-González FI(4), Santana P(5), González 
J(6), Gutiérrez-Bunster T(7), Valdés-Jiménez A(7), Ramírez D(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Farmacología, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Universidad de 
Concepción, Concepción 4070386, Chile.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias Químicas, Universidad de Concepción, Concepción 4070386, 
Chile.
(3)Facultad de Ingeniería, Diseño e Innovación, Institución Universitaria 
Politécnico Gran Colombiano, Bogotá 110231, Colombia.
(4)Departamento de Farmacia, Facultad de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma 
de México, Ciudad de México 04510, México.
(5)Facultad de Ingeniería, Instituto de Ciencias Aplicadas, Universidad Autónoma 
de Chile, Santiago 8910060, Chile.
(6)Departamento de Nutrición y Bioquímica, Facultad de Ciencias, Pontificia 
Universidad Javeriana, Bogotá 110231, Colombia.
(7)Departamento de Sistemas de Información, Facultad de Ciencias Empresariales, 
Universidad del Bío-Bío, Concepción 4051381, Chile.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, presents 
significant challenges in drug development due to its multifactorial nature and 
complex pathophysiology. The AlzyFinder Platform, introduced in this study, 
addresses these challenges by providing a comprehensive, free web-based tool for 
parallel ligand-based virtual screening and network pharmacology, specifically 
targeting over 85 key proteins implicated in AD. This innovative approach is 
designed to enhance the identification and analysis of potential multitarget 
ligands, thereby accelerating the development of effective therapeutic 
strategies against AD. AlzyFinder Platform incorporates machine learning models 
to facilitate the ligand-based virtual screening process. These models, built 
with the XGBoost algorithm and optimized through Optuna, were meticulously 
trained and validated using robust methodologies to ensure high predictive 
accuracy. Validation included extensive testing with active, inactive, and decoy 
molecules, demonstrating the platform's efficacy in distinguishing active 
compounds. The models are evaluated based on balanced accuracy, precision, and 
F1 score metrics. A unique soft-voting ensemble approach is utilized to refine 
the classification process, integrating the strengths of individual models. This 
methodological framework enables a comprehensive analysis of interaction data, 
which is presented in multiple formats such as tables, heat maps, and 
interactive Ligand-Protein Interaction networks, thus enhancing the 
visualization and analysis of drug-protein interactions. AlzyFinder was applied 
to screen five molecules recently reported (and not used to train or validate 
the ML models) as active compounds against five key AD targets. The platform 
demonstrated its efficacy by accurately predicting all five molecules as true 
positives with a probability greater than 0.70. This result underscores the 
platform's capability in identifying potential therapeutic compounds with high 
precision. In conclusion, AlzyFinder's innovative approach extends beyond 
traditional virtual screening by incorporating network pharmacology analysis, 
thus providing insights into the systemic actions of drug candidates. This 
feature allows for the exploration of ligand-protein and protein-protein 
interactions and their extensions, offering a comprehensive view of potential 
therapeutic impacts. As the first open-access platform of its kind, AlzyFinder 
stands as a valuable resource for the AD research community, available at 
http://www.alzyfinder-platform.udec.cl with supporting data and scripts 
accessible via GitHub https://github.com/ramirezlab/AlzyFinder.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jcim.4c01481
PMID: 39480410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2025 May 21;40(4):822-832. doi:
10.1093/arclin/acae100.

Depression Symptoms Moderate Associations between Daily Functioning and 
Neuropsychological Performance in Mexican American Adults.

Graves LV(1), Lozano J(1), Vergonia L(1), Ortega P(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, California State University San Marcos, San Marcos, 
CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The influence of depression on the relationship between cognition and 
daily living in aging Mexican American adults requires further investigation, 
given projected trends in general growth as well as prevalence of depression and 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) in this population.
METHOD: In the present study, we examined the extent to which depression 
(assessed using the Geriatric Depression Scale - 15 item version) moderated the 
association between reported daily functioning (assessed using the Functional 
Activities Questionnaire [FAQ]) and objective neuropsychological performance in 
aging Mexican American adults in the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center 
cohort.
RESULTS: Worse reported daily functioning (higher FAQ scores) was associated 
with worse memory and language performance among participants without elevated 
depression symptoms (ps < .05), but no associations were observed among those 
with elevated symptoms (ps > .05). Moreover, depression did not moderate 
associations of reported daily functioning with performance in attention and 
working memory or executive functioning and processing speed (ps > .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Aging Mexican American adults with elevated depression symptoms may 
have subjective informant reports of daily functioning that are discrepant from 
their objective performance on formal tests of memory and language. Within the 
context of neuropsychological evaluations for ADRD, failure to adequately assess 
mood to inform the nature of cognitive and/or functional changes could result in 
misdiagnosis and lead to delayed, premature, and/or improper intervention with 
this population.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/acae100
PMID: 39479792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. J Neurochem. 2025 Feb;169(2):e16254. doi: 10.1111/jnc.16254. Epub 2024 Oct 31.

Causal association between insulin sensitivity index and Alzheimer's disease.

Xu F(1), Wu S(2), Gao S(2), Li X(2), Huang C(3), Chen Y(4), Zhu P(2), Liu 
G(2)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Xuanwu Hospital, National Center for Neurological 
Disorders, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Institute of Brain Disorders, Laboratory of Brain Disorders, Ministry 
of Science and Technology, Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain Disorders, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(3)Dr. Neher's Biophysics Laboratory for Innovative Drug Discovery, State Key 
Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Macau University of Science 
and Technology, Taipa, Macao SAR, China.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Wannan 
Medical College, Wuhu, Anhui, China.
(5)Brain Hospital, Shengli Oilfield Central Hospital, Dongying, China.
(6)Beijing Key Laboratory of Hypoxia Translational Medicine, National 
Engineering Laboratory of Internet Medical Diagnosis and Treatment Technology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.

Evidence from observational and Mendelian randomization (MR) studies suggested 
that insulin resistance (IR) was associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
However, the causal effects of different indicators of IR on AD remain 
inconsistent. Here, we aim to assess the causal association between the insulin 
sensitivity index (ISI), a measure of post-prandial IR, and the risk of AD. We 
first conducted primary and secondary univariable MR analyses. We selected 8 
independent genome-wide significant (p < 5E-08, primary analyses) and 61 
suggestive (p < 1E-05, secondary analyses) ISI genetic variants from large-scale 
genome-wide association studies (GWAS; N = 53 657), respectively, and extracted 
their corresponding GWAS summary statistics from AD GWAS, including IGAP2019 
(N = 63 926) and FinnGen_G6_AD_WIDE (N = 412 181). We selected five univariable 
MR methods and used heterogeneity, horizontal pleiotropy test, and leave-one-out 
sensitivity analysis to confirm the stability of MR estimates. Finally, we 
conducted a meta-analysis to combine MR estimates from two non-overlapping AD 
GWAS datasets. We further performed multivariable MR (MVMR) to assess the 
potential mediating role of type 2 diabetes (T2D) on the association between ISI 
and AD using two MVMR methods. In univariable MR, utilizing 8 genetic variants 
in primary analyses, we found a significant causal association of genetically 
increased ISI with decreased risk of AD (OR = 0.79, 95% CI: 0.68-0.92, 
p = 0.003). Utilizing 61 genetic variants in secondary analyses, we found 
consistent findings of a causal effect of genetically increased ISI on the 
decreased risk of AD (OR = 0.89, 95% CI: 0.82-0.96, p = 0.003). Heterogeneity, 
horizontal pleiotropy test, and leave-one-out sensitivity analysis ensured the 
reliability of the MR estimates. In MVMR, we found no causal relationship 
between ISI and AD after adjusting for T2D (p > 0.05). We provide genetic 
evidence that increased ISI is significantly and causally associated with 
reduced risk of AD, which is mediated by T2D. These findings may inform 
prevention strategies directed toward IR-associated T2D and AD.

© 2024 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.16254
PMID: 39479764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. RSC Adv. 2024 Oct 30;14(47):34637-34642. doi: 10.1039/d4ra05040a. eCollection
 2024 Oct 29.

Design of peptide therapeutics as protein-protein interaction inhibitors to 
treat neurodegenerative diseases.

Ariawan D(1), Thananthirige KPM(1), El-Omar A(1), van der Hoven J(1), Genoud 
S(1), Stefen H(1), Fath T(1), van Eersel J(1), Ittner LM(1), Tietz O(1).

Author information:
(1)Dementia Research Centre, Macquarie Medical School, Faculty of Medicine, 
Health and Human Sciences, Macquarie University North Ryde Sydney NSW 2109 
Australia ole.tietz@mq.edu.au.

Peptide therapeutics are an emerging class of drugs to treat neurodegenerative 
diseases by inhibiting protein-protein interactions (PPIs). Nerinetide has 
recently emerged as a promising therapeutic for the treatment of ischemic stroke 
and Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The design of this potent neuroprotective agent 
includes a cell penetrating peptide sequence that achieves delivery into neurons 
and a protein-protein inhibitory sequence that achieves inhibition of protein 
complex formation through mimicry. In this study, we deconstruct the nerinetide 
sequence and study the relationship between plasma stability, intraneuronal 
delivery and drug efficacy to provide design guidelines for the development of 
next generation, peptidic PPI inhibitors to treat neurodegenerative diseases.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d4ra05040a
PMCID: PMC11523056
PMID: 39479480

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts to declare.


11. Theranostics. 2024 Oct 14;14(17):6708-6725. doi: 10.7150/thno.100986. 
eCollection 2024.

Intracalvariosseous administration of donepezil microspheres protects against 
cognitive impairment by virtue of long-lasting brain exposure in mice.

Kang JH(1), Yang JK(2), Cho KH(1), Lee OH(1), Kwon H(3), Kim SY(1), Kim S(3)(4), 
Ko YT(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy and Gachon Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Gachon 
University, Incheon, 21936, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Dong-Eui University, Busan, 47340, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Chemical & Biological Integrative Research Center, Korea Institute of Science 
and Technology, Seoul, 02792, Republic of Korea.
(4)KU-KIST Graduate School of Converging Science and Technology, Korea 
University, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea.

Rationale: Recent studies have demonstrated the direct connections between the 
skull bone marrow, meninges, and brain. In an effort to explore these 
connections for the purpose of brain drug delivery, we previously proposed the 
direct application of CNS drugs into the diploic space between the outer and 
inner cortex of the skull, namely, intracalvariosseous administration (ICO). It 
was successfully demonstrated that small molecular to large colloidal drugs can 
readily reach the brain after ICO in mice and rabbits. Here, we report that a 
single ICO of donepezil microspheres protects cognitive impairment in Alzheimer 
mouse models over a month-long period. Methods: Donepezil-loaded long-acting 
microspheres (DPZ@LAM) were prepared with biodegradable 
poly(DL-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA). Pharmacokinetic study and behavioral test 
were performed to determine the brain exposure and therapeutic effects after ICO 
of DPZ@LAM in scopolamine-induced memory-deficient mice. Results: DPZ@LAM were 
capable of a month-long and precisely controlled drug release. After a single 
ICO of DPZ@LAM, DPZ concentration in brain sustained above the effective 
therapeutic levels for four weeks. The long-lasting brain exposure also led to 
significantly recovered cognitive function in scopolamine-induced 
memory-deficient mice, along with decreased acetylcholinesterase activity and 
increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Conclusions: ICO allows for 
BBB-bypassing brain drug delivery through the direct connection between the 
skull bone marrow and brain, providing an alternative approach for the treatment 
of neurodegenerative diseases with otherwise BBB impermeable CNS drugs.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/thno.100986
PMCID: PMC11519799
PMID: 39479440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


12. Front Neurol. 2024 Oct 15;15:1452930. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1452930. 
eCollection 2024.

Spectris™ treatment preserves corpus callosum structure in Alzheimer's disease.

Da X(1), Hempel E(1), Brickman AM(2)(3), Hajós M(1)(4), Kern R(1), Cimenser 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Cognito Therapeutics, Inc, Cambridge, MA, United States.
(2)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NY, 
United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, United States.
(4)Department of Comparative Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT, United States.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the impact of 40Hz gamma stimulation on the preservation 
of the corpus callosum, a critical structure for interhemispheric connectivity, 
in people with mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: OVERTURE (NCT03556280) participants were randomized 2:1 (Active:Sham) 
to receive daily, 1-h, 40Hz gamma sensory stimulation or sham treatment for 6 
months. Structural magnetic resonance imaging data were analyzed to assess 
changes in corpus callosum area (N = 50; 33 for active, 17 for sham). Bayesian 
linear mixed-effects modeling was used to assess differences in longitudinal 
changes of corpus callosum area between the two treatment groups.
RESULTS: All observed differences in corpus callosum area favored the active 
treatment group. Differences were observed in the total corpus callosum area 
(2.28 ± 0.87%, p < 0.02) and its subregions, including genu/rostrum (2.36 ± 
0.90%, p < 0.02), anterior-body (2.64 ± 1.26%, p < 0.04), mid-body (2.79 ± 
1.18%, p < 0.03), posterior-body (2.87 ± 1.41%, p < 0.05), and splenium (1.58 ± 
0.73%, p < 0.04). Total corpus callosum area and some of the sub-regional 
differences, such as genu/rostrum and splenium, were observed as early as 3 
months after commencement of treatment.
INTERPRETATION: The structural magnetic resonance imaging results from the 
OVERTURE Phase 2 study suggest that 6 months of non-invasive 40Hz stimulation 
reduces the rate of atrophy of the corpus callosum in individuals with 
Alzheimer's disease. The preservation of structural integrity in the corpus 
callosum, crucial for interhemispheric communication and cognitive function, may 
be achievable through this non-invasive approach, potentially providing a 
promising disease-modifying alternative in Alzheimer's disease management.

Copyright © 2024 Da, Hempel, Brickman, Hajós, Kern and Cimenser.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1452930
PMCID: PMC11522122
PMID: 39479005

Conflict of interest statement: During the study, XD, EH, MH, RK, and AC 
received salary from Cognito Therapeutics, Inc. AB received compensation from 
Cognito Therapeutics, Inc as a member of the Scientific Advisory Board.


13. Trials. 2024 Oct 30;25(1):732. doi: 10.1186/s13063-024-08404-2.

Estimates of intra-cluster correlation coefficients from 2018 USA Medicare data 
to inform the design of cluster randomized trials in Alzheimer's and related 
dementias.

Ouyang Y(1)(2), Li F(3)(4), Li X(5), Bynum J(6), Mor V(7), Taljaard M(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Child Health Evaluative Sciences, The Hospital for Sick Children, 686 Bay 
Street, Toronto, ON, Canada. yongdongouyang12@gmail.com.
(2)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, 155 College St, 
Toronto, ON, Canada. yongdongouyang12@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, CT, 
USA.
(4)Center for Methods in Implementation and Prevention Science, Yale School of 
Public Health, New Haven, CT, USA.
(5)Department of Population Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Harvard Pilgrim 
Health Care Institute, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Division of Geriatric and Palliative Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(7)Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research, School of Public Health, 
Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.
(8)Clinical Epidemiology Program, Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, 1053 
Carling Ave, Ottawa, ON, Canada. mtaljaard@ohri.ca.
(9)School of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Ottawa, 600 Peter 
Morand Crescent, Ottawa, ON, Canada. mtaljaard@ohri.ca.

BACKGROUND: Cluster randomized trials (CRTs) are increasingly important for 
evaluating interventions embedded in health care systems. An essential parameter 
in sample size calculation to detect both overall and heterogeneous treatment 
effects for CRTs is the intra-cluster correlation coefficient (ICC) of both 
outcome and covariates of interest. However, obtaining advance estimates for the 
ICC can be challenging. When trial outcomes will be obtained from routinely 
collected data sources, there is an opportunity to obtain reliable ICC estimates 
in advance of the trial. Using USA national Medicare data, we estimated ICCs for 
a range of outcomes to inform the design of CRTs for people living with 
Alzheimer's and related dementias (ADRD).
METHOD: Data from 2018 Medicare Fee-for-Service beneficiaries, specifically, 
1,898,812 individuals (≥ 65 years) with diagnosis of ADRD within 3436 hospital 
service areas (treated as clusters) and 306 hospital referral regions (treated 
as fixed strata), were used to calculate unadjusted and adjusted ICC estimates 
for three outcomes: death, any hospitalizations, and any emergency department 
(ED) visits and three covariates: age, race and sex. We present both overall and 
stratum-specific ICC estimates. We illustrate their use in sample size 
calculations for overall treatment effects as well as detecting treatment effect 
heterogeneity.
RESULTS: The unadjusted overall ICCs for death, hospitalizations, and ED visits 
were 0.001, 0.010, and 0.017 respectively. Stratum-specific ICCs varied widely 
across the 306 HRRs: median 0.001, 0.010 and 0.025 for death, hospitalizations, 
and ED visits respectively and 0.007, 0.001, and 0.080 for age, sex and race. An 
interactive R Shiny app is provided that allows users to retrieve estimates 
overlayed on a map of the USA.
CONCLUSIONS: We presented both adjusted and unadjusted ICCs for outcomes as well 
as unadjusted ICCs for covariates of potential interest from population-level 
data in the USA and demonstrated how the estimates may be used in sample size 
calculations for CRTs in ADRD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-024-08404-2
PMCID: PMC11523597
PMID: 39478608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


14. BMC Geriatr. 2024 Oct 30;24(1):897. doi: 10.1186/s12877-024-05486-0.

Analgesic regimens administered to older adults receiving skilled nursing 
facility care following hip fracture: a proof-of-concept federated analysis.

Zullo AR(1)(2)(3)(4), Riester MR(5)(6)(7), Hayes KN(6)(7)(8), Zhang Y(7), Berry 
SD(9)(10)(11), Belanger E(6)(7), Cupp MA(5), Beaudoin FL(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Brown University School of Public Health, 121 
South Main Street, Box G-S121-2, Providence, RI, 02912, USA. 
Andrew_Zullo@brown.edu.
(2)Department of Health Services, Policy, and Practice, Brown University School 
of Public Health, Providence, RI, USA. Andrew_Zullo@brown.edu.
(3)Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research, Brown University School of 
Public Health, Providence, RI, USA. Andrew_Zullo@brown.edu.
(4)Center of Innovation in Long-Term Services and Supports, Providence Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Providence, RI, USA. Andrew_Zullo@brown.edu.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Brown University School of Public Health, 121 
South Main Street, Box G-S121-2, Providence, RI, 02912, USA.
(6)Department of Health Services, Policy, and Practice, Brown University School 
of Public Health, Providence, RI, USA.
(7)Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research, Brown University School of 
Public Health, Providence, RI, USA.
(8)Graduate Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
University of Toronto Leslie Dan, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(9)Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, 
Roslindale, MA, USA.
(10)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(11)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although a majority of patients in the U.S. receive post-acute care 
in skilled nursing facilities (SNFs) following hip fracture, large-sample 
observational studies of analgesic prescribing and use in SNFs have not been 
possible due to limitations in available data sources. We conducted a 
proof-of-concept federated analysis of electronic health records (EHRs) from 11 
SNF chains to describe analgesic use during hip fracture post-acute care.
METHODS: We included residents with a diagnosis of hip fracture between January 
1, 2018 and June 30, 2021 who had at least one administration of an analgesic. 
Use of analgesics was ascertained from EHR medication orders and medication 
administration records. We quantified the proportion of residents receiving 
analgesic regimens based on the medications that were administered up to 
100 days after hip fracture diagnosis. Plots visualizing trends in analgesic use 
were stratified by multiple resident characteristics including age and 
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD) diagnosis.
RESULTS: The study included 23,706 residents (mean age 80.5 years, 68.6% female, 
87.7% White). Most (~ 60%) residents received opioids + APAP. Monotherapy with 
APAP or opioids was also common. The most prevalent regimens were 
oxycodone + APAP (20.1%), hydrocodone + APAP (15.8%), APAP only (15.1%), 
tramadol + APAP (10.4%), and oxycodone only (4.3%). During the study period, use 
of APAP-only increased, opioids-only decreased, and opioids + APAP remained 
stable. Use of APAP-only appeared to be more prevalent among individuals 
aged > 75 years (versus ≤ 75 years) and those with ADRD (versus without).
CONCLUSIONS: We successfully leveraged federated SNF EHR data to describe 
analgesic use among residents receiving hip fracture post-acute care.

© 2024. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-024-05486-0
PMCID: PMC11523817
PMID: 39478461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.R.Z received prior grant funding paid directly 
to Brown University for collaborative research from Sanofi on the epidemiology 
of infections and vaccine use among nursing home residents. K.N.H has received 
grant funding paid directly to Brown University for collaborative research from 
Insight Therapeutics, Sanofi, and Genentech for research on complex insulin 
regimens and influenza outbreak control in nursing homes. K.N.H. has also served 
as a consultant for the Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health. 
The other authors declare that they have no competing interests relevant to the 
subject matter of the manuscript. Some authors are VA employees (A.R.Z.). The 
content and views expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not 
necessarily reflect the position or official policies of the United States 
Government or the US Department of Veterans Affairs.


15. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 30;14(1):26078. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-77921-6.

Risk of Alzheimer's disease and genetically predicted levels of 1400 plasma 
metabolites: a Mendelian randomization study.

Cao D(#)(1)(2)(3), Zhang Y(#)(1)(2)(3), Zhang S(#)(4), Li J(5), Yang Q(6), Wang 
P(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, Wuhan, 430070, Hubei, China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of TCM Protection Technology and New Product 
Development for the Elderly Brain Health, Ministry of Education, Wuhan, 430070, 
Hubei, China.
(3)Hubei Shizhen Laboratory, Wuhan, 430070, Hubei, China.
(4)Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, 130000, Jilin, China.
(5)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, the First Medical Center, Chinese PLA 
General Hospital, Beijing, 100853, China.
(6)The Second Affiliated Hospital of Changchun University of Chinese Medicine 
(Changchun Hospital of Chinese Medicine), Changchun, 130000, Jilin, China.
(7)Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, Wuhan, 430070, Hubei, China. 
pwang54@hbucm.edu.cn.
(8)Engineering Research Center of TCM Protection Technology and New Product 
Development for the Elderly Brain Health, Ministry of Education, Wuhan, 430070, 
Hubei, China. pwang54@hbucm.edu.cn.
(9)Hubei Shizhen Laboratory, Wuhan, 430070, Hubei, China. pwang54@hbucm.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a metabolic disorder. Discovering the metabolic 
products involved in the development of AD may help not only in the early 
detection and prevention of AD but also in understanding its pathogenesis and 
treatment. This study investigated the causal association between the latest 
large-scale plasma metabolites (1091 metabolites and 309 metabolite ratios) and 
AD. Through the application of Mendelian randomization analysis methods such as 
inverse-variance weighted (IVW), MR-Egger, and weighted median models, 66 
metabolites and metabolite ratios were identified as potentially having a causal 
association with AD, with 13 showing significant causal associations. During the 
replication validation phase, six metabolites and metabolite ratios were 
confirmed for their roles in AD: N-lactoyl tyrosine, argininate, and the 
adenosine 5'-monophosphate to flavin adenine dinucleotide ratio were found to 
exhibit protective effects against AD. In contrast, ergothioneine, piperine, and 
1,7-dimethyluric acid were identified as contributing to an increased risk of 
AD. Among them, argininate showed a significant effect against AD. Replication 
and sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of these findings. Metabolic 
pathway analysis linked "Vitamin B6 metabolism" to AD risk. No genetic 
correlations were found, but colocalization analysis indicated potential AD risk 
elevation through top SNPs in APOE and PSEN2 genes. This provides novel insights 
into AD's etiology from a metabolomic viewpoint, suggesting both protective and 
risk metabolites.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-77921-6
PMCID: PMC11525545
PMID: 39478193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


16. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2025 Feb;46(2):292-307. doi: 10.1038/s41401-024-01405-6. 
Epub 2024 Oct 30.

VEGFD/VEGFR3 signaling contributes to the dysfunction of the astrocyte 
IL-3/microglia IL-3Rα cross-talk and drives neuroinflammation in mouse ischemic 
stroke.

Wang S(#)(1)(2), Guo Y(#)(1), Cao RQ(#)(1), Zhu YM(1), Qiao SG(3), Du HP(4), Liu 
Y(4), Xu Y(4), Zhou XY(1), Sun L(3), Lu QX(3), Schoen I(2), Zhang HL(5).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Neuropsychiatric Diseases, Department of 
Pharmacology and Laboratory of Cerebrovascular Pharmacology, Suzhou Key 
Laboratory of Drug Research for Prevention and Treatment of Hyperlipidemic 
Diseases, Suzhou International Joint Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of 
Brain Diseases, College of Pharmaceutical Science, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
215123, China.
(2)Irish Centre for Vascular Biology, School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular 
Sciences, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland RCSI, Dublin, Ireland.
(3)Kunshan Hospital of Chinese Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Yangzhou 
University, Kunshan, 215000, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Suzhou Ninth People's Hospital, Suzhou Ninth 
Hospital Affiliated to Soochow University, Soochow University, Suzhou, 215200, 
China.
(5)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Neuropsychiatric Diseases, Department of 
Pharmacology and Laboratory of Cerebrovascular Pharmacology, Suzhou Key 
Laboratory of Drug Research for Prevention and Treatment of Hyperlipidemic 
Diseases, Suzhou International Joint Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of 
Brain Diseases, College of Pharmaceutical Science, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
215123, China. zhanghuiling@suda.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Astrocyte-derived IL-3 activates the corresponding receptor IL-3Rα in microglia. 
This cross-talk between astrocytes and microglia ameliorates the pathology of 
Alzheimer's disease in mice. In this study we investigated the role of 
IL-3/IL-3Rα cross-talk and its regulatory mechanisms in ischemic stroke. 
Ischemic stroke was induced in mice by intraluminal occlusion of the right 
middle cerebral artery (MCA) for 60 min followed by reperfusion (I/R). Human 
astrocytes or microglia subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation and 
reoxygenation (OGD/Re) were used as in vitro models of brain ischemia. We showed 
that both I/R and OGD/Re significantly induced decreases in astrocytic IL-3 and 
microglial IL-3Rα protein levels, accompanied by pro-inflammatory activation of 
A1-type astrocytes and M1-type microglia. Importantly, astrocyte-derived VEGFD 
acting on VEGFR3 of astrocytes and microglia contributed to the cross-talk 
dysfunction and pro-inflammatory activation of the two glial cells, thereby 
mediating neuronal cell damage. By using metabolomics and multiple biochemical 
approaches, we demonstrated that IL-3 supplementation to microglia reversed 
OGD/Re-induced lipid metabolic reprogramming evidenced by upregulated expression 
of CPT1A, a rate-limiting enzyme for the mitochondrial β-oxidation, and 
increased levels of glycerophospholipids, the major components of cellular 
membranes, causing reduced accumulation of lipid droplets, thus reduced 
pro-inflammatory activation and necrosis, as well as increased phagocytosis of 
microglia. Notably, exogenous IL-3 and the VEGFR antagonist axitinib 
reestablished the cross-talk of IL-3/IL-3Rα, improving microglial lipid 
metabolic levels via upregulation of CPT1A, restoring microglial phagocytotic 
function and attenuating microglial pro-inflammatory activation, ultimately 
contributing to brain recovery from I/R insult. Our results demonstrate that 
VEGFD/VEGFR3 signaling contributes to the dysfunction of the astrocyte 
IL-3/microglia IL-3Rα cross-talk and drives pro-inflammatory activation, causing 
lipid metabolic reprogramming of microglia. These insights suggest VEGFR3 
antagonism or restoring IL-3 levels as a potential therapeutic strategy for 
ischemic stroke.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Shanghai Institute of Materia 
Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1038/s41401-024-01405-6
PMCID: PMC11747567
PMID: 39478160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


17. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 30;14(1):26118. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-75870-8.

Nitric oxide donors rescue metabolic and mitochondrial dysfunction in obese 
Alzheimer's model.

Allerton TD(1), Stampley JE(2), Li Z(3), Yu X(3), Quiariate H(4)(2), Doiron 
JE(4), White G(5), Wigger Z(6), Gartia MR(7), Lefer DJ(3), Soto P(5), Irving 
BA(2).

Author information:
(1)Vascular Metabolism Laboratory, Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Baton 
Rouge, LA, 70808, USA. timothy.allerton@pbrc.edu.
(2)Department of Kinesiology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, USA.
(3)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Smidt Heart Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical 
Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)Vascular Metabolism Laboratory, Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Baton 
Rouge, LA, 70808, USA.
(5)Department of Psychology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, USA.
(6)Adipocyte Biology Laboratory, Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Baton 
Rouge, LA, USA.
(7)Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, Louisiana State 
University, Baton Rouge, LA, USA.

Reduced nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability is a pathological link between obesity 
and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Obesity-associated metabolic and mitochondrial 
bioenergetic dysfunction are key drivers of AD pathology. The hypothalamus is a 
critical brain region during the development of obesity and dysfunction is an 
area implicated in the development of AD. NO is an essential mediator of blood 
flow and mitochondrial bioenergetic function, but the role of NO in obesity-AD 
is not entirely clear. We investigated diet-induced obesity in female 
APPswe/PS1dE9 (APP) mouse model of AD, which we treated with two different NO 
donors (sodium nitrite or L-citrulline). After 26 weeks of a high-fat diet, 
female APP mice had higher adiposity, insulin resistance, and mitochondrial 
dysfunction (hypothalamus) than non-transgenic littermate (wild type) controls. 
Treatment with either sodium nitrite or L-citrulline did not reduce adiposity 
but improved whole-body energy expenditure, substrate oxidation, and insulin 
sensitivity. Notably, both NO donors restored hypothalamic mitochondrial 
respiration in APP mice. Our findings suggest that NO is an essential mediator 
of whole-body metabolism and hypothalamic mitochondrial function, which are 
severely impacted by the dual insults of obesity and AD pathology.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-75870-8
PMCID: PMC11525932
PMID: 39478095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


18. PET Clin. 2025 Jan;20(1):101-111. doi: 10.1016/j.cpet.2024.09.004. Epub 2024
Oct  29.

PET-Computed Tomography-MR Imaging in Central Nervous System Disorders with 
Cognitive and Motor Impairment.

Sagar S(1), Khan D(1), Kumar R(2).

Author information:
(1)Diagnostic Nuclear Medicine Division, Nuclear Medicine, All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, Delhi, India.
(2)Diagnostic Nuclear Medicine Division, Nuclear Medicine, All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, Delhi, India. Electronic address: 
rkphulia@hotmail.com.

Neuroimaging, particularly positron emission tomography (PET), plays a crucial 
role in diagnosing and managing brain disorders by providing insights into 
diverse neuropathologies such as vascular issues, infections, inflammation, 
degenerative diseases, and tumors. In dementia, [18F]FDG-PET helps predict 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) development from mild cognitive impairment, revealing 
metabolic reductions in specific brain regions. PET's evolution with novel 
radiotracers and advanced imaging techniques addresses diagnostic challenges and 
enhances disease monitoring. Despite limitations like off-target binding, PET 
remains indispensable in clinical neurology, offering noninvasive insights into 
brain functions, disease progression, and treatment responses.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cpet.2024.09.004
PMID: 39477721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure No disclosure.


19. ESC Heart Fail. 2025 Apr;12(2):1119-1131. doi: 10.1002/ehf2.15144. Epub 2024
Oct  30.

Connecting the dots: A narrative review of the relationship between heart 
failure and cognitive impairment.

Massussi M(1), Bellicini MG(2), Adamo M(2), Pilotto A(3)(4)(5), Metra M(2), 
Padovani A(3)(4)(5)(6), Proietti R(7).

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory and Cardiology, ASST Spedali Civili di 
Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, Radiological Sciences, and 
Public Health, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(3)Department of Continuity of Care and Frailty, Neurology Unit, ASST Spedali 
Civili Brescia Hospital, Brescia, Italy.
(4)Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Neurology Unit, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(5)Laboratory of Digital Neurology and Biosensors, University of Brescia, 
Brescia, Italy.
(6)Brain Health Center, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(7)Liverpool Centre for Cardiovascular Science, University of Liverpool and 
Liverpool Chest and Heart Hospital, Liverpool, UK.

Large clinical data underscore that heart failure is independently associated to 
an increased risk of negative cognitive outcome and dementia. Emerging evidence 
suggests that cerebral hypoperfusion, stemming from reduced cardiac output and 
vascular pathology, may contribute to the largely overlapping vascular dementia 
and Alzheimer's disease. Despite these insights, cognitive outcomes remain 
largely overlooked in heart failure management. This narrative review outlines 
the prevalence and risk of cognitive impairment in heart failure patients, 
exploring potential shared pathophysiological mechanisms and examining the 
impact of heart failure therapy on cognitive deficits. Additionally, it 
discusses clinical implications and suggests future treatment approaches 
targeting therapeutic outcomes. Cognitive impairment is prevalent among 
individuals with heart failure, with reported rates varying widely depending on 
assessment methods. Shared pathological pathways and risk factors, including 
atrial fibrillation (AF), hypertension, obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus, 
suggest a causal link. Mechanisms such as poor perfusion, microembolic events, 
ischaemic syndromes and cerebral inflammation contribute to this relationship. 
Moreover, heart failure itself may exacerbate cognitive dysfunction. This 
emerging understanding posits that vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease may 
represent a pathophysiological continuum, driven by both the accumulation of 
misfolded proteins and cerebrovascular pathology due to cardiovascular 
dysfunction. Understanding these links is crucial for developing effective 
treatment strategies. The complex interplay between heart failure and cognitive 
impairment underscores the necessity for a holistic patient care approach. Both 
conditions share analogous disease processes, influencing self-management and 
independence in patients. Prioritizing brain health in heart failure management 
is essential to enhance patient prognosis and general well-being.

© 2024 The Author(s). ESC Heart Failure published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1002/ehf2.15144
PMCID: PMC11911588
PMID: 39477682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Mauro Massussi, Maria Giulia Bellicini, and 
Riccardo Proietti declare that they have no conflicts of interest relevant to 
the content of this work to disclose. Marianna Adamo received speaker fees from 
Abbott Vascular and Medtronic, outside of the submitted work. M. Metra received 
consulting honoraria for participation in steering committees or advisory boards 
or for speeches from Abbott Vascular, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Edwards, 
Fresenius, Novartis, and Servier, outside of the submitted work. Alessandro 
Padovani has served on the scientific advisory board of GE Healthcare, Eli 
Lilly, and Actelion Pharmaceuticals; and has received speaker honoraria from 
Nutricia, IAM Pharmaceuticals, Lansgstone Technology, GE Healthcare, Eli Lilly, 
UCB Pharma, and Chiesi Pharmaceuticals, outside of the submitted work. Andrea 
Pilotto has served on the scientific advisory board of Z‐cube (technology 
division of Zambon Pharma) and has received speaker honoraria from Biomarin and 
Zambon Pharmaceuticals, outside of the submitted work.


20. In Vivo. 2024 Nov-Dec;38(6):2672-2679. doi: 10.21873/invivo.13744.

Effect of Nattokinase in D-galactose- and Aluminum Chloride-induced Alzheimer's 
Disease Model of Rat.

Tanikawa T(#)(1), Yu J(#)(2), Hsu K(2), Chen S(2), Ishii A(3), Kitamura M(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Josai 
University, Saitama, Japan; tanikawa@josai.ac.jp.
(2)Contek Life Science Co., Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.
(3)CellMark Japan, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Josai 
University, Saitama, Japan; kitamura@josai.ac.jp.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND/AIM: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia 
worldwide. Nattokinase is a serine protease extracellularly produced by natto, a 
fermented product of Bacillus subtilis var. natto. In this study, we 
investigated the therapeutic effects of nattokinase in a rat model of AD induced 
by aluminum and D-galactose.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty Wistar rats were randomly divided into four groups: 
normal, vehicle, and orally administered nattokinase (NK65 and NK130 groups). 
Except for the normal group, all groups were treated with AlCl3 and D-galactose 
for 10 weeks. The NK65 and NK130 groups additionally received 65 mg/kg/day and 
130 mg/kg/day nattokinase, respectively. We analyzed β-amyloid levels in the 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and the spatial reference test was evaluated using 
the Morris water maze test. After the Morris water maze test, rats of all groups 
were subjected to micro-computed tomography (μCT) to assess constructional 
changes in the brain. Aluminum concentration and β-amyloid levels were analyzed 
by histochemical staining in all brain tissues.
RESULTS: Oral administration of nattokinase in the AD rat model increased 
free-form β-amyloid levels in the CSF and improved aluminum and amyloid plaque 
accumulation in the brain. Brain μCT images showed enhanced brain volume with 
fewer constructional changes after treatment with nattokinase. In the behavioral 
tests, both the escape latency time in the spatial reference test and the time 
taken to cross the platform area in the spatial probe test improved partially.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that nattokinase has potential therapeutic 
applications in the treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2024, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. 
Delinasios), All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21873/invivo.13744
PMCID: PMC11535913
PMID: 39477413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The Authors declare no conflicts of interest.


21. Dementia (London). 2025 May;24(4):720-737. doi: 10.1177/14713012241296173.
Epub  2024 Oct 30.

"Understanding dementia together": The design, delivery and evaluation of a 
collaborative, inter-professional dementia workshop for healthcare students.

O'Sullivan T(1), Moore N(2), McVeigh JG(1), Timmons S(3), Foley T(4).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Physiotherapy, School of Clinical Therapies, University College 
Cork, Ireland.
(2)Discipline of Medical Imaging and Radiation Therapy, School of Medicine, 
University College Cork, Ireland.
(3)Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, School of Medicine, University 
College Cork, Ireland.
(4)Department of General Practice, School of Medicine, University College Cork, 
Ireland.

BackgroundA collaborative, multi-disciplinary team input is crucial for the 
optimal management of the older adult with complex care needs such as dementia. 
Interprofessional learning (IPL) at undergraduate level can lead to improved 
collaborative knowledge and skills. The aim of this study was to develop, 
deliver and evaluate an IPL dementia workshop for healthcare students across 11 
disciplines. A secondary aim was to determine whether there is a clinical 
application of learned knowledge in students who completed the workshop and 
subsequently underwent clinical placement.MethodsThe design of the IPL workshop 
aligned with Kern's map for the development of a curriculum in medical 
education. The Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge Scale (ADKS) was used to assess 
students' knowledge of dementia pre-and-post workshop, as well as opened-ended 
questions on role recognition and communication.ResultsA total of 102 students 
completed the workshop questionnaire, with a follow up of 47 students on 
clinical placement. There was a statistically significant increase in students' 
knowledge and confidence levels in communication with a person with dementia. 
Students reported positively on the workshop format, the collaborative nature of 
the workshop, as well as the role of the patient advocate. The follow up of 
students on clinical placement showed a perceived behavioural change in 
communication modification.ConclusionOur study demonstrates the benefits of an 
IPL initiative across multiple disciplines, with perceived behavioural change on 
clinical placement.

DOI: 10.1177/14713012241296173
PMCID: PMC11997285
PMID: 39477251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


22. Chem Biol Interact. 2025 Jan 5;405:111294. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2024.111294.
Epub  2024 Oct 29.

Maackiain: A comprehensive review of its pharmacology, synthesis, 
pharmacokinetics and toxicity.

Haider W(1), Pan W(1), Wang D(1), Niaz W(2), Zaman MK(3), Ullah R(1), Ullah 
S(4), Rafiq M(1), Yu B(5), Cong H(6).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, College of Life Sciences, 
College of Materials Science and Engineering, Institute of Biomedical Materials 
and Engineering, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Marine Chemistry Theory and Technology, Ministry of 
Education, Ocean University of China, Qingdao, 266100, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, First Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, 510180, China.
(4)College of Textiles and Clothing, State Key Laboratory of Bio-Fibers and 
Eco-Textiles. Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266000, Shandong, China.
(5)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, College of Life Sciences, 
College of Materials Science and Engineering, Institute of Biomedical Materials 
and Engineering, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, China. Electronic address: 
yubing198@qdu.edu.cn.
(6)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, College of Life Sciences, 
College of Materials Science and Engineering, Institute of Biomedical Materials 
and Engineering, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, China; School of Materials 
Science and Engineering, Shandong University of Technology, Zibo, 255000, China. 
Electronic address: conghailin@sdut.edu.cn.

Maackiain is an important component of some herbs in traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM), such as Sophora flavescens Aiton, Spatholobus suberectus Dunn 
and Paeonia lactiflora Pall. Maackiain belongs to the second largest group of 
isoflavonoids the pterocarpans that is widespread in several plant genera, for 
example Maackia, Sophora, Caragana, Trifolium and Millettia. Recently, maackiain 
has attracting more attention because of its numerous pharmacological 
properties. This review offers the first extensive overview of maackiain natural 
isolation sources, pharmacological activities, synthesis, toxicity, and 
pharmacokinetic properties. The literature search published between 1962 and 
2023 were reported by collecting the data from Google Scholar, Science Direct, 
SpringerLink, Web of Science, PubMed, Wiley Online, China National Knowledge 
Infrastructure, Scopus and structure search in SciFinder. Finding reveals the 
broad range of pharmacological activities of maackiain, such as 
anti-inflammatory, sepsis prevention, anti-cancer, anti-allergic, 
anti-osteolytic, anti-obesity, nephroprotective, antifungal, neuroprotective, 
anti-leukemic, antimalarial and inflammasome activation. Based on findings of 
pharmacokinetic studies, it is observed that maackiain possesses a low level of 
bioavailability and absorption and a rapid rate of elimination, but maackiain 
absorption rates in the extract were comparatively much higher than pure forms 
because of higher solubility and may reduce the metabolism by other ingredients 
present in the extract. Toxicity investigations revealed that maackiain is 
non-toxic to the majority of cells and selectively cytotoxic. After witnessing 
the beneficial pharmacological properties of maackiain, it is believed to be an 
emerging drug candidate for the treatment of inflammation, allergic, 
nephroprotection in T2D, depression, or Alzheimer's disease and obesity. 
However, future research topics should likely to include that elucidates its 
mechanism of toxicity and in vivo proper tracking of its conducts in drug 
delivery system. Integrating toxicity and efficiency, as well as structure 
modification, are critical approaches to enhancing its pharmacological 
properties and oral bioavailability.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2024.111294
PMID: 39477181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


23. Drug Discov Today. 2024 Dec;29(12):104217. doi: 10.1016/j.drudis.2024.104217.
 Epub 2024 Oct 29.

Comprehensive analysis of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and reactivator 
complexes: implications for drug design and antidote development.

Bagrowska W(1), Karasewicz A(1), Góra A(2).

Author information:
(1)Tunneling Group, Biotechnology Centre, Silesian University of Technology, 
Krzywoustego 8, 44-100 Gliwice, Poland.
(2)Tunneling Group, Biotechnology Centre, Silesian University of Technology, 
Krzywoustego 8, 44-100 Gliwice, Poland. Electronic address: artur.gora@polsl.pl.

The main function of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is to regulate the levels of 
one of the most important neurotransmitters: acetylcholine. This makes AChE an 
ideal molecular target for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases and 
dementia (such as Alzheimer's disease), as well as for the neutralisation of 
natural toxins (e.g., venom peptides) and chemical warfare agents. The 
significance of AChE inhibitors in slowing the progression of dementia, as well 
as the role of reactivators in treating poisoned individuals, is reflected in 
several co-crystallised complexes deposited in the Protein Data Bank. In this 
study, we analysed all deposited AChE-small-molecule complexes to gain insights 
into compound binding and to provide guidance for the future design of 
therapeutic drugs and new antidotes.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2024.104217
PMID: 39476946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Chemistry. 2025 Jan 9;31(2):e202402748. doi: 10.1002/chem.202402748. Epub
2024  Nov 18.

Evaluation of Anti-Alzheimer's Potential of Azo-Stilbene-Thioflavin-T derived 
Multifunctional Molecules: Synthesis, Metal and Aβ Species Binding and 
Cholinesterase Activity.

Rana M(1)(2), Terpstra K(2), Gutierrez C(2), Xu K(2), Arya H(3), Bhatt TK(3), 
Mirica LM(2), Sharma AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Central University of Rajasthan, Bandarsindri, 
Ajmer, 305817, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 600 S. 
Mathews Avenue, Urbana, Illinois, 61801, USA.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Central University of Rajasthan, Bandarsindri, 
Ajmer, 305817, India.

Inhibition of amyloid β (Aβ) aggregation and cholinesterase activity are two 
major therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Multifunctional 
Molecules (MFMs) specifically designed to address other contributing factors, 
such as metal ion induced abnormalities, oxidative stress, toxic Aβ aggregates 
etc. are very much required. Several multifunctional molecules have been 
developed using different molecular scaffolds. Reported herein is a new series 
of four MFMs based on ThT, Azo-stilbene and metal ion chelating pockets. The 
synthesis, characterization, and metal chelation ability for [Cu2+ and Zn2+] are 
presented herein. Furthermore, we explored their multifunctionality w.r.t. to 
their (i) recognition of Aβ aggregates and monomeric form, (ii) utility in 
modulating the aggregation pathways of both metal-free and metal-bound 
amyloid-β, (iii) ex-vivo staining of amyloid plaques in 5xFAD mice brain 
sections, (iv) ability to scavenge free radicals and (v) ability to inhibit 
cholinesterase activity. Molecular docking studies were also performed with Aβ 
peptides and acetylcholinesterase enzyme to understand the observed inhibitory 
effect on activity. Overall, the studies presented here establish the 
multifunctional nature of these molecules and qualify them as promising 
candidates for furthermore investigation in the quest for finding Alzheimer's 
disease treatment.

© 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/chem.202402748
PMCID: PMC12435589
PMID: 39476334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests The authors declare that 
there are no competing financial interests.


25. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2024 Dec;11(12):3192-3204. doi: 10.1002/acn3.52227.
Epub  2024 Oct 30.

Identification of fibrinogen as a plasma protein binding partner for lecanemab 
biosimilar IgG.

Bellier JP(1), Román Viera AM(1), Christiano C(1), Anzai JAU(1), Moreno S(1), 
Campbell EC(1), Godwin L(1), Li A(1), Chen AY(1), Alam SM(1), Saba A(1), Yoo 
HB(1), Yang HS(1), Chhatwal JP(1), Selkoe DJ(1), Liu L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 May 19:2024.05.01.591892. doi: 10.1101/2024.05.01.591892.

OBJECTIVE: Recombinant monoclonal therapeutic antibodies like lecanemab, which 
target amyloid beta in Alzheimer's disease, offer a promising approach for 
modifying the disease progression. Due to its relatively short half-life, 
lecanemab administered as a bi-monthly infusion (typically 10 mg/kg) has a 
relatively brief half-life. Interaction with abundant plasma proteins binder in 
the bloodstream can affect pharmacokinetics of drugs, including their half-life. 
In this study, we investigated potential plasma protein binding (PPB) 
interaction to lecanemab using lecanemab biosimilar.
METHODS: Lecanemab biosimilar used in this study was based on publicly available 
sequences. ELISA and western blotting were used to assess lecanemab biosimilar 
immunoreactivity in the fractions of human plasma obtained through size 
exclusion chromatography. The binding of lecanemab biosimilar to candidate 
plasma binders was confirmed by western blotting, ELISA, and surface plasmon 
resonance analysis.
RESULTS: Using a combination of equilibrium dialysis, ELISA, and western 
blotting in human plasma, we first describe the presence of likely PPB partners 
to lecanemab biosimilar and then identify fibrinogen as one of them. Utilizing 
surface plasmon resonance, we confirmed that lecanemab biosimilar does bind to 
fibrinogen, although with lower affinity than to monomeric amyloid beta.
INTERPRETATION: In the context of lecanemab therapy, these results imply that 
fibrinogen levels could impact the levels of free antibodies in the bloodstream 
and that fibrinogen might serve as a reservoir for lecanemab. More broadly, 
these results indicate that PPB may be an important consideration when 
clinically utilizing therapeutic antibodies in neurodegenerative disease.

© 2024 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published 
by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/acn3.52227
PMCID: PMC11651182
PMID: 39476320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DJS is a director and consultant of Prothena 
Biosciences and ad hoc consultant to Eisai. LL. is a consultant of Korro Bio, 
Inc. and DynamiCure Biotechnology, LLC. All other authors have nothing to 
disclose.


26. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2024 Dec;11(12):3280-3291. doi: 10.1002/acn3.52235.
Epub  2024 Oct 30.

Plasma exchange with albumin replacement for Alzheimer's disease treatment 
induced changes in serum and cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory mediator levels.

Gonzalo R(1), Minguet C(1), Ortiz AM(1), Bravo MI(1), López OL(2), Boada 
M(3)(4), Ruiz A(3)(4), Costa M(1).

Author information:
(1)Grifols Scientific Innovation Office, Avinguda de la Generalitat 152-158, 
Sant Cugat del Vallès, 08174, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Departments of Neurology and Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, 811 Kaufmann Medical Building, 3471 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, 15213, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)ACE Alzheimer Centre Barcelona - Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, Gran 
Via de Carles III, 85 BIS, Barcelona, 08028, Spain.
(4)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Calle de Melchor Fernández Almagro 3, 
Fuencarral-El Pardo, Madrid, 28029, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: There is extensive literature indicating that inflammatory pathways 
are affected in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We examined whether plasma exchange 
with albumin replacement (PE-Alb) can impact the inflammatory status of AD 
patients and alter the relationship between inflammatory mediators and cognitive 
measures.
METHODS: Serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from 142 AD patients 
participating in the AMBAR trial (14-month schedule of PE-Alb treatment vs. 
placebo [sham PE-Alb]) were analyzed for changes from baseline for 19 
inflammatory mediators (6 inflammatory cytokines, 9 chemokines, and 4 vascular 
injury indicators) at representative time points across the AMBAR study (lasting 
effects) as well as in pre- versus post-PE-Alb procedure (acute effects). 
Association between mediator changes and clinical outcomes reported in the AMBAR 
study (cognitive, functional, behavioral function, and global change tests) was 
assessed.
RESULTS: PE-Alb significantly reduced IFN-γ, eotaxin, MIP-1α and ICAM-1 levels 
in serum, and eotaxin-3 and MIP-1β levels in CSF, at various time points during 
treatment (p < 0.05; false discovery rate-corrected). Vascular injury indicators 
were the mediators mostly affected by post- versus pre-PE-Alb level reduction. 
Increased serum MIP-1α levels were associated with worsening in ADAS-Cog, 
CDR-sb, and ADCS-CGIC scores in the placebo group, but not in the PE-Alb-treated 
group.
INTERPRETATION: Peripheral intervention could affect AD by reducing inflammatory 
mediators in both peripheral and central compartments. Changes in MIP-1α due to 
PE-Alb were associated with changes in clinical outcomes.

© 2024 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published 
by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/acn3.52235
PMCID: PMC11651178
PMID: 39476248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RG, CM, MIB, and MC are full‐time employees of 
Grifols. AMO was a full‐time employee of Grifols when the study was performed. 
MB has received consultant fees from Araclon, Avid, Bayer, Elan, Grifols, 
Janssen/Pfizer, Lilly, Neuroptix, Nutricia, Roche, Sanofi, Biogen, and Servier; 
and received fees for lectures and funds for research from Araclon, Lilly, 
Grifols, Janssen, Novartis, Nutricia, Piramal, Pfizer‐Wyett, Roche, and Servier. 
OL has received consultant fees from Grifols and Lundbeck. AR has received been 
a consultant fees from Grifols, Prevail Therapeutics, and Landsteiner Genmed; 
reports grants/research funding from Abbvie, Janssen, Grifols, and Fundación 
Bancaria LaCaixa; and has stocks in Landsteiner Genmed.


27. Dysphagia. 2025 Aug;40(4):792-800. doi: 10.1007/s00455-024-10777-0. Epub 2024
 Oct 30.

The Comparison of Oropharyngeal Dysphagia in Alzheimer's Disease versus Older 
Adults with Presbyphagia.

Tanrıverdi M(1), Osmanoğlu E(2), Gelişin Ö(3), Çalım ÖF(2), Soysal P(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Department of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation, 
Bezmialem Vakıf University, İstanbul, Türkiye. muberratanrverdi@gmail.com.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Otolaryngology, Bezmialem Vakıf 
University, İstanbul, Türkiye.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Neurology, Bezmialem Vakıf University, 
İstanbul, Türkiye.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Geriatric Medicine, Bezmialem Vakıf 
University, İstanbul, Türkiye.

Dysphagia is defined as difficulty in swallowing, while presbyphagia is 
described as a change in swallowing process in healthy older adults, which is a 
compensable physiological impairment and synonymous with dysphagia. Aging is a 
well-known risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), and oropharyngeal dysphagia 
(OD) is a common condition in AD. Our study aims to compare OD in AD patients 
and older adults with presbyphagia (OAwP). 65 older adults (AD = 32, mean 
age:76.5 ± 6; OAwP = 33, mean age:71.1 ± 4) were included. Swallowing disorders 
were evaluated by Flexible Endoscopic Evaluation Study, which scored by 
Penetration Aspiration Scale (PAS) that scores other than 1 indicate dysphagia, 
Murray Secretion Severity Scale (MSSS), and Eating Assessment Tool-10 (EAT-10). 
Neurologist determined Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) scores of AD patients. AD 
and OAwP groups had OD, respectively, 96.87% vs. 81.81% by PAS, 87.5% vs. 60.60% 
by MSSS, and 56.25% vs. 18.18% by EAT-10. No statistical differences were 
observed between AD and OAwP in terms of gender, age, PAS, and MSSS values 
(p > 0.05). There was a significant difference in EAT-10 total scores 
(p = 0.000), and had OD by EAT-10 (p = 0.024). No differences were found in age, 
time elapsed since diagnosis, PAS, and EAT-10 scores based on CDR, but there was 
a difference in MSSS scores (p = 0.013). CDR in AD were associated with gender, 
time elapsed since diagnosis, and MSSS scores (p < 0.05). OAwP experience 
swallowing problems at least as much as those with AD. Evaluation of swallowing 
disorders after diagnosis is essential for both AD and OAwP. Early-stage 
management of disease with preventive treatment approaches can delay onset of 
symptoms.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00455-024-10777-0
PMID: 39476095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: The ethical 
approval was obtained from Bezmialem Vakıf University Clinical Research Ethics 
Committee (date: 24.02.2021, approval number 9691, and decision number 2/27). 
Conflict of Interest: The authors declare that there is no conflict of interest.


28. JAMA Psychiatry. 2025 Jan 1;82(1):12-21. doi:
10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2024.3241.

Slowing Cognitive Decline in Major Depressive Disorder and Mild Cognitive 
Impairment: A Randomized Clinical Trial.

Rajji TK(1)(2)(3), Bowie CR(1)(4), Herrmann N(2)(5), Pollock BG(1)(2), Lanctôt 
KL(2)(5), Kumar S(1)(2), Flint AJ(2)(6), Mah L(2)(7), Fischer CE(2)(8), Butters 
MA(9), Bikson M(10), Kennedy JL(1)(2), Blumberger DM(1)(2), Daskalakis ZJ(11), 
Gallagher D(2)(5), Rapoport MJ(2)(5), Verhoeff NPLGP(2)(7), Golas AC(1)(2), 
Graff-Guerrero A(1)(2), Vieira E(1)(2), Voineskos AN(1)(2), Brooks H(1), 
Melichercik A(1), Thorpe KE(12), Mulsant BH(1)(2)(9); PACt-MD Study Group.

Collaborators: Mulsant BH, Rajji TK, Herrmann N, Pollock BG, Blumberger D, Bowie 
C, Butters M, Fischer C, Flint A, Golas A, Graff A, Kennedy JL, Kumar S, Lanctot 
K, Lourenco L, Mah L, Ovaysikia S, Rapoport M, Thorpe K, Verhoeff NPLG, 
Voineskos A, Bingham K, Chiuccariello L, Chow T, Dham P, Diniz B, Miranda D, 
Tartaglia C.

Author information:
(1)Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Toronto Dementia Research Alliance, Temerty 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas.
(4)Department of Psychology, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Baycrest Health Sciences, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Keenan Research for Biomedical Science, Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St 
Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(10)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The City College of New York, New 
York.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla.
(12)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

IMPORTANCE: Older adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) or mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) are at high risk for cognitive decline.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of cognitive remediation (CR) plus 
transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) targeting the prefrontal cortex 
in slowing cognitive decline, acutely improving cognition, and reducing 
progression to MCI or dementia in older adults with remitted MDD (rMDD), MCI, or 
both.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This randomized clinical trial was conducted 
at 5 academic hospitals in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Participants were older 
adults who had rMDD (with or without MCI, age ≥65 y) or MCI without rMDD (age 
≥60 y). Assessments were made at baseline, month 2, and yearly from baseline for 
3 to 7 years.
INTERVENTIONS: CR plus tDCS (hereafter, active) or sham plus sham 5 days a week 
for 8 weeks followed by twice-a-year 5-day boosters and daily at-home CR or sham 
CR.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was change in global composite 
cognitive score. Secondary outcomes included changes in 6 cognitive domains, 
moderating effect of the diagnosis, moderating effect of APOE ε4 status, change 
in composite score at month 2, and progression to MCI or dementia over time.
RESULTS: Of 486 older adults who provided consent, 375 (with rMDD, MCI, or both) 
received at least 1 intervention session (mean [SD] age, 72.2 [6.4] years; 232 
women [62%] and 143 men [38%]). Over a median follow-up of 48.3 months (range, 
2.1-85.9), CR and tDCS slowed cognitive decline in older adults with rMDD or MCI 
(adjusted z score difference [active - sham] at month 60, 0.21; 95% CI, 0.07 to 
0.35; likelihood ratio test [LRT] P = .006). In the preplanned primary analysis, 
CR and tDCS did not improve cognition acutely (adjusted z score difference 
[active - sham] at month 2, 0.06, 95% CI, -0.006 to 0.12). Similarly, the effect 
of CR and tDCS on delaying progression from normal cognition to MCI or MCI to 
dementia was weak and not significant (hazard ratio, 0.66; 95% CI, 0.40 to 1.08; 
P = .10). Preplanned analyses showed treatment effects for executive function 
(LRT P = .04) and verbal memory (LRT P = .02) and interactions with diagnosis 
(P = .01) and APOE ε4 (P < .001) demonstrating a larger effect among those with 
rMDD and in noncarriers of APOE ε4.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The study showed that CR and tDCS, both targeting the 
prefrontal cortex, is efficacious in slowing cognitive decline in older adults 
at risk of cognitive decline, particularly those with rMDD (with or without MCI) 
and in those at low genetic risk for Alzheimer disease.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02386670.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2024.3241
PMCID: PMC11525663
PMID: 39476073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Rajji 
reported research support from Brain Canada, Brain and Behavior Research 
Foundation, BrightFocus Foundation, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health 
(CAMH) Foundation, Canada Foundation for Innovation, Canada Research Chair, 
Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), Centre for Aging and Brain Health 
Innovation, National Institutes of Health, Ontario Ministry of Health and 
Long-Term Care, Ontario Ministry of Research and Innovation, and the Weston 
Brain Institute and in-kind equipment support for an investigator-initiated 
study from Magstim; in-kind research accounts from Scientific Brain Training 
Pro; and a patent for 17/396,030 pending with CAMH. Dr Bowie reported receiving 
consulting fees from Boehringer Ingelheim, Pfizer, and Lundbeck; funding from 
Lundbeck, Takeda, and Pfizer; and in-kind research support from Scientific Brain 
Training; and royalties from Oxford University Press. Dr Pollock reported 
research support from the Peter & Shelagh Godsoe Endowed Chair in Late-Life 
Mental Health, CAMH Foundation and Discovery Fund, National Institute of Aging, 
Brain Canada, CIHR, Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation, Ontario Brain 
Institute, Centre for Aging and Brain Health Innovation, Bright Focus 
Foundation, Alzheimer’s Society of Canada, W. Garfield Weston Foundation, Weston 
Brain Institute, and Canadian Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA), 
and Genome Canada; honoraria from the American Geriatrics Society for book 
authorship; and a US provisional patent (6/490,680, 17/396,030) and Canadian 
provisional patent (3,054,093) for a cell-based assay and kits for assessing 
serum anticholinergic activity. Dr Lanctôt reported support by the Bernick Chair 
in Geriatric Psychopharmacology; grants from the CIHR, Alzheimer’s Association, 
National Institutes of Health (NIH), Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation, and 
Weston Brain Institute; and personal fees for serving on the advisory boards of 
BioXcel Therapeutics, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bright Minds, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Cerevel Therapeutics, Eisai, Exciva, Ironshore Pharmaceuticals, Kondor Pharma, 
Lundbeck, Novo Nordisk, Otsuka, Praxis Therapeutics, and Sumitomo; and 
medication donation from PBG Biopharma outside the submitted work. Dr Kumar 
reported grants from the CIHR, Weston Brain Institute, BrightFocus Foundation, 
National Institute on Aging (R01AG052510-01), Brain and Behavior Foundation, 
Brain Canada, CCNA, CAMH, and Centre for Aging and Brain Health Innovation; 
receiving an Academic Scholars Award from the Department of Psychiatry, 
University of Toronto; nonfinancial support from Soterix Medical outside the 
submitted work; and participation in guideline development panels outside the 
submitted work. Dr Flint reported grant support from the NIH, Patient-Centered 
Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI), CIHR, Brain Canada, Ontario Brain 
Institute, Alzheimer’s Association, and AGE-WELL. Dr Mah reported nonfinancial 
support from Brainsway and grants from the Ministry of Health Long-term Funding 
AFP Innovation Funds, Alzheimer’s Society of Canada, Centre for Aging and Brain 
Health Innovation, Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care, and Brainsway 
outside the submitted work. Dr Fischer reported grants from Vielight, Novo 
Nordisk, NIH, Canadian Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA), Hilary 
and Galen Weston Foundation, Brain Canada, PCORI, Hoffman LaRoche, and Mito2i 
outside the submitted work. Dr Bikson reported having equity in Soterix Medical; 
being an inventor on patents that City University of New York has on brain 
stimulation; and serving on the scientific advisory boards for and/or receiving 
grants from Boston Scientific, X, Mecta, Halo Neuroscience, and GlaxoSmithKline 
outside the submitted work. Dr Kennedy reported being a scientific advisory 
board member for Myriad Neuroscience outside the submitted work. Dr Blumberger 
reported research support from the CIHR, NIH, Brain Canada, and the Temerty 
Family through the CAMH Foundation and the Campbell Family Research Institute; 
research support and in-kind equipment support for an investigator-initiated 
study from Brainsway; serving as the site principal investigator for 3 
sponsor-initiated studies for Brainsway; in-kind equipment support from 
Magventure for 2 investigator-initiated studies; medication supplies for an 
investigator-initiated trial from Indivior; nonfinancial support from Magstim; 
and personal fees from Sooma outside the submitted work. Dr Daskalakis reported 
research and equipment in-kind support for an investigator-initiated study 
through Brainsway and Magventure; support from the CIHR, National Institutes of 
Mental Health (NIMH), Brain Canada, and the Temerty Family and Grant Family and 
through the CAMH Foundation and the Campbell Institute. Dr Voineskos reported 
grants from National Institute of Mental Health, CIHR, Canada Foundation for 
Innovation, CAMH Foundation, University of Toronto, Brain Canada, and Wellcome 
Trust during the conduct of the study. Dr Mulsant reported holding and receiving 
support from the Labatt Family Chair in Biology of Depression in Late-Life 
Adults at the University of Toronto; being a member of the CAMH Board of 
Trustees; research support from Brain Canada, CIHR, CAMH Foundation, PCORI, and 
NIH; and nonfinancial support from Capital Solution Design (software used in 
this study) and HappyNeuron (software used in this study). No other disclosures 
were reported.


29. Neurology. 2024 Nov 26;103(10):e210029. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000210029.
Epub  2024 Oct 30.

Costs Are Still on the Rise for Commonly Prescribed Branded Neurologic 
Medications.

Gusovsky AV(1), Lin CC(1), Kerber K(1), Reynolds EL(1), Callaghan BC(1), Burke 
JF(1).

Author information:
(1)From The Center for the Advancement of Team Science, Analytics, and Systems 
Thinking in Health Services and Implementation Science Research (CATALYST) 
(A.V.G.), College of Medicine, and Department of Neurology (C.C.L., K.K., 
J.F.B.), Division of Health Services Research, Wexner Medical Center, The Ohio 
State University, Columbus; Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics 
(E.L.R.), Michigan State University, East Lansing; and Department of Neurology 
(B.C.C.), University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

OBJECTIVES: To observe medication cost trends for 5 common neurologic 
conditions.
METHODS: We quantified annual out-of-pocket (OOP) and total medication costs for 
patients seen by a neurologist with epilepsy, multiple sclerosis (MS), Parkinson 
disease (PD), peripheral neuropathy (PN), and dementia/Alzheimer's disease in a 
commercial claims database cross-sectionally from 2012 to 2021.
RESULTS: We identified 186,144 patients with epilepsy, 54,676 with MS, 45,909 
with PD, 169,127 with PN, and 60,861 with dementia/Alzheimer. OOP costs for MS 
medications increased each year, by 217% on average. Branded epilepsy 
medications had higher OOP costs than generics. Decreases ranging from 48% to 
80% in annual OOP costs of duloxetine, pregabalin, rasagiline, rivastigmine, and 
memantine were observed in the years after generic introduction.
DISCUSSION: Preferentially selecting generic medications reduces OOP costs, 
other than for MS where costs continue to increase. Policy solutions, such as 
cost caps, are needed.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000210029
PMID: 39475685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. J Chem Inf Model. 2024 Nov 11;64(21):8105-8112. doi:
10.1021/acs.jcim.4c01445.  Epub 2024 Oct 30.

3DSTarPred: A Web Server for Target Prediction of Bioactive Small Molecules 
Based on 3D Shape Similarity.

Yan C(1)(2), Liu Z(3), Bai Y(1)(2), Wang Z(1)(2), Fang J(4), Liu A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Functions of Natural 
Medicines, Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, China.
(2)Beijing Key Lab of Drug Target Identification and Drug Screening, Institute 
of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical 
College, Beijing 100050, China.
(3)Department of Data Science, Wecomput Technology Co., Ltd. (Guangzhou), 
Guangzhou 510535, China.
(4)Science and Technology Innovation Center, Guangzhou University of Chinese 
Medicine, Guangzhou 510405, China.

Target identification plays a critical role in preclinical drug development. The 
in silico approach has been developed and widely applied to assist medicinal 
chemists and pharmacologists in drug target identification. There are many 
target prediction web servers available today that have revealed both advantages 
and shortcomings in practical applications. Here, we present 3DSTarPred, a web 
server for three-dimensional (3D) shape similarity-based target prediction of 
small molecules. A benchmark study showed that 3DSTarPred achieved a target 
prediction success rate of 76.27%, which was higher than that of existing target 
prediction web servers. In addition, the performance of 3DSTarPred in the target 
prediction of diverse substructures/superstructures was also better than that of 
the existing target prediction web servers. In case studies, 3DSTarPred was used 
to identify the potential targets of two small molecules, one being kaempferol, 
a natural lead compound for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and the 
other being sildenafil, a candidate for drug repurposing in AD. The case studies 
further demonstrated the reliability and success of 3DSTarPred in practice. The 
3DSTarPred server is freely available at http://3dstarpred.pumc.wecomput.com.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jcim.4c01445
PMID: 39475556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Aging (Albany NY). 2024 Oct 29;16(20):13145-13171. doi:
10.18632/aging.206143.  Epub 2024 Oct 29.

Brain aging and Alzheimer's disease, a perspective from non-human primates.

Isidro F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Experimental Therapeutics, University of 
Barcelona, Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Reial Acad&#xe8;mia de Medicina de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain.

Brain aging is compared between Cercopithecinae (macaques and baboons), 
non-human Hominidae (chimpanzees, orangutans, and gorillas), and their close 
relative, humans. β-amyloid deposition in the form of senile plaques (SPs) and 
cerebral β-amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a frequent neuropathological change in 
non-human primate brain aging. SPs are usually diffuse, whereas SPs with 
dystrophic neurites are rare. Tau pathology, if present, appears later, and it 
is generally mild or moderate, with rare exceptions in rhesus macaques and 
chimpanzees. Behavior and cognitive impairment are usually mild or moderate in 
aged non-human primates. In contrast, human brain aging is characterized by 
early tau pathology manifested as neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), composed of 
paired helical filaments (PHFs), progressing from the entorhinal cortex, 
hippocampus, temporal cortex, and limbic system to other brain regions. 
β-amyloid pathology appears decades later, involves the neocortex, and 
progresses to the paleocortex, diencephalon, brain stem, and cerebellum. SPs 
with dystrophic neurites containing PHFs and CAA are common. Cognitive 
impairment and dementia of Alzheimer's type occur in about 1-5% of humans aged 
65 and about 25% aged 85. In addition, other proteinopathies, such as 
limbic-predominant TDP-43 encephalopathy, amygdala-predominant Lewy body 
disease, and argyrophilic grain disease, primarily affecting the archicortex, 
paleocortex, and amygdala, are common in aged humans but non-existent in 
non-human primates. These observations show that human brain aging differs from 
brain aging in non-human primates, and humans constitute the exception among 
primates in terms of severity and extent of brain aging damage.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.206143
PMCID: PMC11552644
PMID: 39475348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The author declares no 
conflict of interest.


32. Pharm Dev Technol. 2024 Dec;29(10):1111-1120. doi: 
10.1080/10837450.2024.2423833. Epub 2024 Nov 14.

Preparation and characterization of poly(ethylene glycol)-b-poly(tert-butyl 
methacrylate) micelles as potential nanocarriers for donepezil.

İğdeli G(1), Fritzen L(2), Pietrzik CU(2), Temel BA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Health Sciences, Bezmialem Vakif 
University, Fatih, Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Molecular Neurodegeneration, Institute for Pathobiochemistry, University 
Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg-University of Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Bezmialem Vakif 
University, Fatih, Istanbul, Turkey.

Polymeric micelles were prepared for the delivery of donepezil, a leading 
Alzheimer's disease drug, to enhance its transport across the blood-brain 
barrier (BBB). Poly(ethylene glycol)-b-poly(tert-butyl methacrylate) amphiphilic 
block copolymers were synthesized via reversible addition-fragmentation chain 
transfer (RAFT) polymerization. The polymers were characterized by gel 
permeation chromatography and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Empty and 
donepezil loaded polymer micelles were formed using the dialysis method and 
characterized by dynamic light scattering and transmission electron microscopy. 
Drug loading efficiency and release behavior were monitored using UV/Vis 
spectroscopy, and cytotoxicity was evaluated via colorimetric tests and 
impedance measurements. Additionally, the permeability of the nanocarriers 
across an in vitro BBB culture model was assessed. Drug-loaded micelles 
demonstrated similar permeability to free donepezil but offered sustained 
release and improved stability. This micellar delivery system holds significant 
potential for improving therapeutic outcomes in Alzheimer's treatment by 
enhancing donepezil's delivery across the BBB. Improved BBB permeability and 
sustained drug release could lead to more effective concentration of the drug in 
the brain, potentially reducing peripheral cholinergic side effects, such as 
nausea and vomiting, often observed with traditional donepezil administration. 
This could result in better patient compliance and improved cognitive outcomes, 
making this nanocarrier system a promising alternative for Alzheimer's therapy.

DOI: 10.1080/10837450.2024.2423833
PMID: 39474809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Phytother Res. 2024 Dec;38(12):6023-6034. doi: 10.1002/ptr.8359. Epub 2024
Oct  30.

Effects of Ginseng on Cognitive Function: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Zeng M(1)(2), Zhang K(1)(2), Yang J(3), Zhang Y(1)(2), You P(1)(2), Yan L(1)(2), 
Weng Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The Second Affiliated Hospital of Fujian University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Fuzhou, People's Republic of China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine in Medical Institutions of 
Fujian Province, Fuzhou, People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, People's Republic of 
China.

Ginseng is a kind of traditional Chinese medicine. It is widely believed that 
ginseng can improve cognitive function, but its clinical efficacy is still 
controversial. This study aimed to systematically evaluate the effects of 
ginseng on cognitive function improvement. This is a systematic review and 
meta-analysis of the randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Searching PubMed, Web 
of Science, the Cochrane Library, and Medline databases to collect RCTs of 
ginseng on the effects of human cognitive function. The time range is from the 
establishment of the database to December 2023. The main intervention in the 
trials was ginseng preparation. The Cochrane risk-of-bias tool 2.0 (RoB2.0) and 
Jadad scale were used to assess the risk of bias and evaluate the quality of the 
included articles. After data extraction, meta-analysis was performed using 
Stata 17.0 software. A total of 15 RCTs were included, and 671 patients were 
analyzed. The subjects included healthy people, patients of cognitive 
impairment, schizophrenia, hospitalized, and Alzheimer's disease. The 
intervention measures were mainly ginseng preparations. The meta-analysis 
results indicated that ginseng has a significant effect on memory improvement 
(SMD = 0.19, 95%CI: 0.02-0.36, p < 0.05), especially at high doses (SMD = 0.33, 
95%CI: 0.04-0.61, p < 0.05). Ginseng did not have a positive effect on overall 
cognition, attention, and executive function (SMD = 0.06, 95%CI: -0.64-0.77, 
p = 0.86; SMD = 0.06, 95%CI: -0.12 to 0.23, p = 0.54; SMD = -0.03, 95%CI: -0.28 
to 0.21, p = 0.79). Ginseng has some positive effects on cognitive improvement, 
especially on memory improvement. But in the future, more high-quality studies 
are needed to determine the effects of ginseng on cognitive function. Trial 
Registration: Prospero: CRD42024514231.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.8359
PMID: 39474788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Chem Biodivers. 2025 Mar;22(3):e202401548. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202401548. Epub 
2024 Nov 18.

Usnic Acid Derivatives as Multi-Target Anti-Alzheimer's Disease Agents: Design, 
Synthesis, X-Ray Single Crystal Structure of Zn(II) Complex and Biological 
Activities.

Zhao L(1), Li B(1), Zheng L(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Energy and Chemical Engineering, Tianjin Renai College, Tianjin, 
301636, China.
(2)College of Pharmaceutical Engineering of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 301617, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is multifactorial, which makes the design of 
multi-target-directed ligands an attractive strategy for the development of 
anti-AD drugs. In order to enhance the anti-AD effects and reduce the toxicity, 
two usnic acid (UA) derivatives (1-2) were designed, synthesized and fully 
characterized by introducing dimethylamine Schiff base moiety into the toxic 
"triketone" portion. Ellman's method and molecular docking were used to test the 
cholinesterase inhibitory activities. Antioxidant activities were studied with 
Fenton reaction, cyclic voltammetry and C. elegans. The results showed that 
compared with UA, 1-2 had stronger anti-cholinesterase activities and similar 
antioxidant activities. Notably, solvent evaporation of 2 and ZnCl2 formed a 
single crystal, which was revealed to be a Zn(II) complex with UA and tertiary 
amine as mixed ligands by X-ray diffraction. The hydrolysis of 2 was thus 
furtherly studied by HPLC. Furthermore, the crystal structure supported the 
replacement of toxic "triketone" moiety in the chelation process, playing a 
detoxifying role and at the same time regulating metal homeostasis. In silico 
prediction also showed low hepatotoxicity and acceptable drug-likeness of 1-2. 
Overall, this work provided useful insights into multi-target anti-AD candidates 
with the natural product UA as the lead compound.

© 2024 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202401548
PMID: 39474647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Int J Clin Health Psychol. 2024 Oct-Dec;24(4):100510. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijchp.2024.100510. Epub 2024 Oct 18.

Does Cognitive Stimulation Therapy show similar efficacy in individuals with 
mild-to-moderate dementia from varying etiologies? An examination comparing its 
effectiveness in Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.

Piras F(1), Carbone E(2), Domenicucci R(2), Sella E(2), Borella E(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatry Laboratory, Clinical Neuroscience and Neurorehabilitation 
Department, IRCCS Fondazione Santa Lucia, Via Ardeatina 306-354-00179, Rome, 
Italy.
(2)Department of General Psychology, University of Padova, via Venezia 8 -35131, 
Padova, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: The effectiveness of the Cognitive Stimulation Therapy (CST) is 
well-documented. Nevertheless, the question of whether specific subgroups of 
individuals with dementia are more or less likely to benefit from this cognitive 
stimulation intervention remains unaddressed. Here, we directly compared the 
effectiveness of the Italian CST (CST-IT), delivered in a previous multicenter 
controlled clinical trial, across two distinct cohorts of individuals clinically 
diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease (AD, N = 30) and vascular dementia (VaD, N = 
27) in the mild-to-moderate stage.
METHOD: The impact of dementia subtype (AD vs VaD) on immediate (at intervention 
completion) benefits of CST-IT in general cognitive functioning, communicative 
abilities, mood, behavior and perceived quality of life was evaluated through 
linear mixed effects models. The frequency and severity of neuropsychiatric 
symptoms at baseline was inserted as a covariate due to the different behavioral 
profile in the two groups. Exploratory analyses also investigated the potential 
differential effect of dementia subtype on long-term benefits (three months 
after intervention).
RESULTS: The CST-IT determined comparable immediate, clinically significant 
improvements in general cognition and communicative abilities. Dementia subtype 
influenced short-term benefits in depressive symptoms (with a greater decrease 
in AD patients) and quality of life (no significant impact in AD, and a small 
improvement in VaD). Such effects depended on diagnosis-related differences in 
neuropsychiatric symptoms. At long-term, benefits persisted in general cognition 
(though depending on the outcome considered). Improvements in narratives were 
seen in VaD, whereas communicative abilities in AD returned to baseline. 
Post-intervention gains in depressive symptoms persisted in AD, but not in VaD, 
although benefits in quality of life remained stable in the latter.
CONCLUSIONS: Different mechanisms of neuropsychological change after CST-IT were 
hypothesized for the different forms of dementia, particularly with respect to 
crucial outcomes such as language, mood and quality of life, with implications 
toward the delivery of such psychosocial intervention in clinical contexts.

© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijchp.2024.100510
PMCID: PMC11513487
PMID: 39474512

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


36. Med Cannabis Cannabinoids. 2024 Sep 12;7(1):160-170. doi: 10.1159/000541364. 
eCollection 2024 Jan-Dec.

Treatment of Neuropsychiatric Symptoms in Alzheimer's Disease with a 
Cannabis-Based Magistral Formulation: An Open-Label Prospective Cohort Study.

Navarro CE(1)(2), Pérez JC(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Universidad de Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(2)Grupo de Investigación E.S.E Hospital Emiro Quintero Cañizares, Ocaña, 
Colombia.
(3)E.S.E Hospital Emiro Quintero Cañizares, Ocaña, Colombia.

INTRODUCTION: Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) may be disruptive and problematic 
for patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and for their caregivers. Cannabidiol 
(CBD) may be a safer alternative. The objective was to evaluate whether CBD-rich 
oil was effective, and safe in adults with NPS secondary to AD.
METHODS: An open-label, prospective cohort, single-center study in patients with 
AD onset after the age of 65 with untreated NPS. A CBD-rich oil was 
administrated 0.1 mL sublingually every 8-12 h, up-titrated weekly. The primary 
outcome was to establish a reduction in the NPI-Q severity score of >30% at 12 
weeks compared with the baseline. A p value of <0.05 was statistically 
significant.
RESULTS: Between July 2020 and July 2023, 59 (93.5%) patients completed ≥3 
months of follow-up. The patients were under treatment for a mean of 23.2 
months, the median dose of CBD was 111 mg/day. The median NPI-Q severity and 
caregiver's distress scores at baseline were 24 and 29, respectively. At 3 
months, the median NPI-Q severity score shifted to 12 (p < 0.001) and 14 (p < 
0.001), respectively. The proportion of patients who achieved a reduction in the 
NPI-Q severity score of >30% was 94.9%, while a reduction of >50% was achieved 
by 54.2%. The improvement was maintained for up to 24 months.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that CBD-rich oil is an effective and safe therapy 
for treating NPS in AD patients, while also reducing the caregivers' distress.

Plain Language Summary: There is a need for an alternative treatment to 
significantly improve NPS in AD and decrease the caregiver’s stress as well as 
the financial burden resulting from polypharmacy and institutionalization. Any 
promising treatment should be safe and reduce the risk of adverse effects. This 
study evaluated the efficacy of a CBD-rich oil in treating NPS in a cohort of 59 
patients with AD over a follow-up of more than 1 year, with a specific focus on 
its impact on caregiver burden. The study showed a significant reduction in the 
NPI-Q severity and caregiver’s distress scores after 3 months of intervention, 
and sustained for up to 24 months of follow-up. Notably, the effectiveness was 
independent of age, sex, years with AD, type of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, 
and NPI-Q severity score before CBD treatment. A low CBD dose and a slow dose 
titration improve tolerance. These results may indicate that alleviating NPS in 
people with AD facilitates daily caregiving and improves caregivers’ emotional 
and physical distress.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000541364
PMCID: PMC11521541
PMID: 39474242

Conflict of interest statement: Cristian E. Navarro worked at Clínica Zerenia in 
Bogotá (Colombia) which is a reference center specializing in medical cannabis 
therapy owned by Khiron Life Science Corp®; Khiron Life Science Corp® 
manufactures the CBMF used in this study. Juan C. Pérez has nothing to declare.


37. Dement Geriatr Cogn Dis Extra. 2024 Sep 2;14(1):89-95. doi:
10.1159/000541237.  eCollection 2024 Jan-Dec.

Prevalence of Geriatric Syndromes among Older Outpatients with Dementia.

Tran LV(1)(2), Nguyen TX(1)(3), Nguyen TTH(1)(3), Nguyen HTT(1)(3), Nguyen 
TN(1)(3), Nguyen AL(1)(2), Naganathan V(4)(5), Thillainadesan J(4)(5), Nguyen 
HTT(6)(7), Nguyen AT(1)(3), Vu HTT(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Scientific Research Department, National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(2)Neurology Department, Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(3)Geriatrics Department, Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(4)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Centre for Education and Research on 
Ageing, Concord Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(5)Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(6)Physiology Department, Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(7)Dinh Tien Hoang Institute of Medicine, Hanoi, Vietnam.

INTRODUCTION: The identification of geriatric syndromes in people with dementia 
is important. The aim of the study was to assess the prevalence of geriatric 
syndromes among dementia outpatients.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted enrolling outpatients with 
dementia aged ≥60 years old. Dementia was diagnosed by neuropsychiatrists 
following DSM-5 criteria. The geriatric syndromes assessed included nutritional 
status (Mini Nutritional Assessment Scale-Short Form), polypharmacy, 
comorbidities, alcohol use, depression (quality of life in Alzheimer disease), 
functional status (Barthel Index, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living); 
lower body strength (30 s stand chair test), and frailty (Timed Up and Go test 
≥14 s).
RESULTS: A total of 87 participants was recruited in the study (mean age: 76.8 ± 
1.2 years; female: 65.5%). The median number of geriatric syndromes per 
participant was 5 (IQR = 2); all participants had two or more geriatric 
syndromes. The most common geriatric syndromes were loss of independence (96.6% 
impairment in >1 IADL task score and 74.7% dependency in physical function at 
based on Barthel Index), reduced lower body strength (86.2%), malnutrition and 
risk of malnutrition (78.2%), and frailty (67.8%). Current and history of 
smoking, drinking alcohol, using memantine therapy, malnourishment and risk of 
malnourishment were significantly associated with increasing severity of 
dementia.
CONCLUSION: The presence and coincidence of geriatric syndromes is common among 
outpatients with dementia. These findings have important clinical implications 
in terms of the assessment and service delivery for older adults in Vietnam. We 
are exploring ways to enhance our services to provide comprehensive, 
multidisciplinary approaches to screening, recognition, and treatment of 
geriatric syndromes in older adults with dementia.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000541237
PMCID: PMC11521520
PMID: 39473812

Conflict of interest statement: Authors have no potential conflict of interest 
to disclose.


38. Front Cell Neurosci. 2024 Oct 15;18:1475934. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2024.1475934.
 eCollection 2024.

The role of ferroptosis in neurodegenerative diseases.

Fei Y(1), Ding Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, 
China.

Ferroptosis represents an iron- and lipid peroxidation (LPO)-mediated form of 
regulated cell death (RCD). Recent evidence strongly suggests the involvement of 
ferroptosis in various neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), particularly 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), 
multiple sclerosis (MS), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), among others. 
The treatment of ferroptosis poses both opportunities and challenges in the 
context of ND. This review provides a comprehensive overview of characteristic 
features, induction and inhibition of ferroptosis, highlighting the ferroptosis 
inhibitor and the underlying mechanisms responsible for its occurrence. 
Moreover, the review explores how these mechanisms contribute to the 
pathogenesis and progression of major neurodegenerative disorders. Additionally, 
it presents novel insights into the role of ferroptosis in ND and summarizes 
recent advancements in the development of therapeutic approaches targeting 
ferroptosis. These insights and advancements hold potential to guide future 
strategies aimed at effectively managing these debilitating medical conditions.

Copyright © 2024 Fei and Ding.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2024.1475934
PMCID: PMC11518764
PMID: 39473490

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


39. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2025 Jan;136(1):e14098. doi:
10.1111/bcpt.14098.  Epub 2024 Oct 30.

Neurodegenerative disorders: Advances in neurobiology and new treatment 
perspectives.

Joca S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedicine, Health Faculty, Aarhus University, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(2)Translational Neuropsychiatry Unit, Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus 
University, Aarhus, Denmark.

DOI: 10.1111/bcpt.14098
PMID: 39473400


40. J Neurochem. 2025 Feb;169(2):10.1111/jnc.16244. doi: 10.1111/jnc.16244. Epub 
2024 Oct 30.

Circulating medium- and long-chain acylcarnitines are associated with plasma 
P-tau181 in cognitively normal older adults.

Sharmin T(1)(2), Chatterjee P(1)(3), Doecke JD(4)(5), Ashton NJ(6)(7), Huynh 
K(8), Pedrini S(5)(9), Sohrabi HR(1)(9)(10), Heng B(1), Eslick S(1), Zetterberg 
H(6)(11)(12)(13)(14)(15), Blennow K(6)(11), Garg M(1), Martins RN(1)(5)(9).

Author information:
(1)Macquarie Medical School, Macquarie University, Macquarie Park, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, University of Rajshahi, Rajshahi, Bangladesh.
(3)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Australian eHealth Research Centre, CSIRO, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(5)School of Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(7)Department of Old Age Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & 
Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
(8)Metabolomics Laboratory, Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(9)Alzheimer's Research Australia, Nedlands, Western Australia, Australia.
(10)School of Psychology, Murdoch University, Murdoch, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(11)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(12)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(13)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(14)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis involves dysregulation in diverse 
biochemical processes. Nevertheless, plasma tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 
(P-tau181), a recognised AD biomarker, has been described to reflect early-stage 
cortical amyloid-β (Aβ) deposition in cognitively normal (CN) adults. Therefore, 
identifying changes in plasma metabolites associated with plasma P-tau181 at the 
pre-clinical stage may provide insights into underlying biochemical mechanisms 
to better understand initial AD pathogenesis. In the current study, plasma 
P-tau181, quantified via single molecule array (Simoa) technology, and plasma 
metabolites, quantified via targeted-mass spectrometry, were investigated for 
associations in CN older adults and upon stratification by positron emission 
tomography (PET)-Aβ load. In addition, the P-tau181-linked metabolites were 
evaluated for cognitive performance and neuroimaging markers of AD and the 
potential to distinguish between CN Aβ- and CN Aβ+ individuals. Significant 
positive associations of medium- and long-chain acylcarnitines (ACs) were 
observed with P-tau181 in the entire cohort, CN Aβ- and CN Aβ+, suggesting a 
link between initial Aβ pathology and fatty acid oxidation-mediated energy 
metabolism pathways. However, in CN Aβ-, additional linear associations of 
P-tau181 were observed with muscle metabolism and nitric oxide 
homeostasis-associated metabolites. Upon investigating the P-tau181-linked 
metabolites for cognitive performance, significant inverse correlations of the 
verbal and visual episodic memory and the global composite score were noted in 
CN Aβ+ with medium- and long-chain ACs, suggesting prognostic value of ACs 
accompanying weaker cognitive performance. While investigating neuroimaging 
markers, ACs had positive associations with PET-Aβ load and inverse associations 
with hippocampal volume in CN Aβ+, indicating connections of ACs with initial AD 
pathogenesis. Furthermore, based on receiver operating characteristics analysis, 
the associated ACs potentially classified PET-Aβ status in older adults. 
Therefore, plasma P-tau181-linked circulating ACs may serve as potential 
prognostic markers for initial AD pathogenesis in CN older adults. However, 
further cross-sectional and longitudinal research in highly characterised AD 
cohorts is needed to validate current findings.

© 2024 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.16244
PMCID: PMC11808462
PMID: 39473263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors confirm that there are no competing 
financial or non‐financial interests to report concerning the work described in 
this manuscript. Nicholas J. Ashton has served as a consultant for Quanterix and 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Lilly, Quanterix and Biogen. Henrik 
Zetterberg has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for 
Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics and Wave; has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk and 
Roche; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
Kaj Blennow has served as a consultant on advisory boards or on data monitoring 
committees for Acumen, Abcam, ALZpath, AriBio, Axon, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, 
JOMDD/Shimadzu, Julius Clinical, Lilly, MagQu, Novartis, Ono Pharma, 
Pharmatrophix, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics and Siemens Healthineers, and is a 
co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside the work presented in this paper).


41. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2025;24(3):196-207. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273321002240919102841.

Exploring Therapeutic Strategies: The Relationship between Metabolic Disorders 
and FOXO Signalling in Alzheimer's Disease.

Kaur P(1), Khan H(1), Grewal AK(1), Dua K(2)(3), Singh SK(4), Gupta G(5)(6)(7), 
Singh TG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara 
University, 140401, Punjab, India.
(2)Discipline of Pharmacy, Graduate School of Health, University of Technology 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia.
(3)Faculty of Health, Australian Research Centre in Complementary and 
Integrative Medicine, University of Technology Sydney, Ultimo, NSW 2007, 
Australia.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely 
Professional University, Phagwara, 144411, Punjab, India.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Suresh Gyan Vihar University, Jagatpura, 302017, Mahal 
Road, Jaipur, India.
(6)Centre for Transdisciplinary Research, Saveetha Institute of Medical and 
Technical Science, Saveetha University, Chennai, India.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Graphic Era Hill University, 
Dehradun, 248007, India.

Alzheimer's disease is an ailment that is linked with the degeneration of the 
brain cells, and this illness is the main cause of dementia. Metabolic stress 
affects the activity of the brain in AD via FOXO signaling. The occurrence of AD 
will significantly surge as the world's population ages, along with lifestyle 
changes perceived in current decades, indicating a main contributor to such 
augmented prevalence. Similarly, metabolic disorders of current adulthood, such 
as obesity, stroke, and diabetes mellitus, have been observed as the 
risk-causing factors of AD. Environmental influences induce genetic mutations 
that result in the development of several diseases. Metabolic disorders develop 
when individuals are exposed to an environment where food is easily accessible 
and requires minimal energy expenditure. Obesity and diabetes are among the most 
significant worldwide health concerns. Obesity arises because of an imbalance 
between the amount of energy consumed and the amount of energy expended, which 
is caused by both behavioral and physiological factors. Obesity, insulin 
resistance syndrome, hypertension, and inflammation are factors that contribute 
to the worldwide risk of developing diabetes mellitus and neurodegenerative 
diseases. FOXO transcription factors are preserved molecules that play an 
important part in assorted biological progressions, precisely in aging as well 
as metabolism. Apoptosis, cell division and differentiation, oxidative stress, 
metabolism, and lifespan are among the physiological processes that the FOXO 
proteins are adept at controlling. In this review, we explored the correlation 
between signaling pathways and the cellular functions of FOXO proteins. We have 
also summarized the intricate role of FOXO in AD, with a focus on metabolic 
stress, and discussed the prospect of FOXO as a molecular link between AD and 
metabolic disorders.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273321002240919102841
PMID: 39473249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2024 Oct 29. doi:
10.2174/0113892010331763241002122854.  Online ahead of print.

Virus-like Particles-Based Vaccine to Combat Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Lim LWC(1), Lee JY(1), Chen CH(2), Voon KGL(3), Koh RY(4), Chye SM(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Science, International Medical University, 57000 Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Biopharmaceuticals, College of 
Life Sciences, National Chiayi University, Chiayi City 600355, Taiwan, ROC.
(3)School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham Malaysia, Semenyih, Malaysia.
(4)Division of Applied Biomedical Science and Biotechnology, School of Health 
Science, International Medical University.

Neurodegenerative diseases are regarded as gradual, incurable conditions with an 
insidious onset. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are two 
of the most prevalent neurodegenerative diseases reported globally. Developing 
effective treatment strategies for neurodegenerative diseases has remained a 
primary objective and a huge challenge for researchers. The therapeutic 
medications that are now approved for the treatment of neurodegenerative 
diseases merely treat the symptoms; the underlying pathology is not addressed. 
Therefore, the emergence of novel disease-modifying therapeutic modalities such 
as immunotherapy has opened a new path in developing effective treatments for 
neurogenerative diseases. Compared to other types of subunit active vaccines, 
virus-like particles (VLPs) are considerably more immunogenic as they present 
dense and repetitive viral antigen epitopes on their surface, which can trigger 
both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses. They are also a much safer 
option than the traditional inactivated and live-attenuated vaccines since they 
are devoid of viral genomes and are, therefore, non-pathogenic and 
non-infectious. Researchers have turned their attention to VLPs as an active 
immunotherapy candidate for AD due to the lessons learned from the AN1792 trial. 
Studies have shown that they effectively induce anti-Aβ, anti-tau, and 
anti-α-Synuclein antibodies while avoiding T-cell-related immune reactions in 
animal models of AD and PD. This review compiles the findings of preclinical 
animal model studies and clinical investigations on VLP-based vaccines for 
neurogenerative diseases thus far. The technical limitations and potential 
difficulties associated with the future application of VLP-based vaccines in 
patients with neurodegenerative diseases have also been covered.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113892010331763241002122854
PMID: 39473206


43. J Integr Neurosci. 2024 Oct 21;23(10):194. doi: 10.31083/j.jin2310194.

Copper Overload Promotes β-amyloid Induced NLRP3/Caspase-1/GSDMD-Mediated 
Pyroptosis in Alzheimer's Disease.

Zhu MJ(1), Zhang L(2)(3), Wang CP(4).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, 200080, Shanghai, China.
(2)Neurology Department, Shanghai Xuhui Central Hospital, 200041 Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Neurology Department, Zhongshan-Xuhui Hospital, Fudan University, 200437 
Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Neurovascular Intervention, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 200080 Shanghai, China.

PURPOSE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by cognitive decline and 
abnormal protein accumulation. Copper imbalance and pyroptosis play significant 
roles in the pathogenesis of AD. Recent studies have suggested that dysregulated 
copper homeostasis contributed to β-amyloid accumulation, which may activate the 
NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3)-related pyroptosis pathway, promoting 
neuronal damages and AD progression. Therefore, the present study aims to 
investigates whether copper facilitates AD through exacerbating β-amyloid (Aβ) 
induced activation of NLRP3/Caspase-1/Gasdermin D (GSDMD)-mediated neuronal cell 
pyroptosis.
METHODS: Mouse hippocampal HT-22 cells were cultured with Aβ1-42 oligomer for 24 
h as AD Model group. CuCl2 treatment was administered to the AD cell model, and 
cell survivability levels were detected by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), 
TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL), and other relevant kits. 
Mitochondrial function was evaluated using Mitochondrial membrane potential dye 
JC-1 and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). After intervention with the 
NLRP3 inhibitor MCC950, activation of the NLRP3/Caspase-1/GSDMD pathway by 
copper ions (Cu2+) was confirmed via Western Blot. Thioredoxin T (ThT) 
fluorescence assay was performed to observe the aggregation effect of Aβ induced 
by Cu2+ overload.
RESULTS: CuCl2 treatment of the AD cell model resulted in up-regulation of the 
levels of Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH), Interleukin-1β (IL-1β), and IL-18 
expression, which indicated activation of pyroptosis. We observed a significant 
decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial swelling, and loss 
of mitochondrial cristae by fluorescence microscopy and TEM. ThT fluorescence 
imaging showed that Cu2+ promoted Aβ aggregation and up-regulated NLRP3, 
apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD (ACS), Caspase-1, 
Cleaved Caspase-1, GSDMD, and Gasdermin D N-terminal (GSDMD-NT). The NLRP3 
inhibitor MCC950 partially reversed Cu2+-mediated pyroptosis in HT-22 cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Exposure to copper ions disrupt mitochondrial copper homeostasis, 
promotes Aβ aggregation, and activates NLRP3 inflammasomes, further promoting 
the Aβ aggregation activated pyroptosis in AD cell models.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/j.jin2310194
PMID: 39473154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2024 Oct 25. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273315412241009092249. Online ahead of print.

In Silico and ADMET Studies of Spiro-Quinazoline Compounds as Acetylcholine 
Esterase Inhibitors Against Alzheimer's Disease.

Aljuaid A(1), Abdulaziz O(1), Allahyani M(1), Almehmadi M(1), Alzahrani AYA(2), 
Verma S(3), Yusuf M(4), Asif M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Taif University, P.O. Box 11099, Taif 21944, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Arts, King Khalid University, 
Mohail Assir, Saudi Arabia.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Graphic Era Hill University, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, 
India.
(4)Department of Natural and Applied Sciences, School of Science and Technology, 
The Glocal University, Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh 247121 India.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Era College of Pharmacy, Era 
University, Lucknow, 226003, Uttar Pradesh, India.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative condition 
characterized by progressive cognitive decline and memory impairment resulting 
from the degeneration and death of brain neurons. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) 
inhibitors are used in primary pharmacotherapy for numerous neurodegenerative 
conditions, providing their capacity to modulate acetylcholine levels crucial 
for cognitive function. Recently, quinazoline derivatives have emerged as a 
compelling model for neurodegenerative disease treatment, showcasing promising 
pharmacological features. Their unique structural features and pharmacokinetic 
profiles have sparked interest in their potential efficacy and safety across 
diverse neurodegenerative disorders. The exposure of quinazoline derivatives as 
a potential therapeutic way underscores the imperative for continued research 
exploration. Their multifaceted mechanisms of action and ability to target 
various pathways implicated in neurodegeneration offer exciting prospects for 
developing novel, effective, and well-tolerated treatments. Further 
investigations into their pharmacological activities and precise therapeutic 
roles are essential to advance our understanding of neurodegenerative disease 
pathophysiology and promote the development of modern therapeutic strategies to 
address this critical medical challenge.
METHODS: Quinazoline derivatives have gained eminent acetylcholinesterase (AChE) 
inhibitory activity. Their ability to effectively modulate AChE activity makes 
them promising candidates for treating neurological disorders, particularly 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Their intricate molecular structures confer 
selectivity and affinity for AChE, offering potential for the development of 
novel therapeutic agents targeting cholinergic pathways. Hence, in this study, 
we designed, synthesized, and characterized a series of 
spiro[cycloalakane-1,2'-quinazoline derivatives (1-6) to assess their possible 
AChE inhibiting ability using docking into the active sites.
RESULTS: The AChE inhibitory potential of spiro[cycloalkane-1,2'-quinazoline 
derivatives (1-6) was explored via docking studies of the AChE active site. The 
findings revealed significant inhibitory activity and highlighted the promising 
nature of these derivatives.
CONCLUSION: The synthesized spiro[cycloalkane-1,2'-quinazoline derivatives (1-6) 
exhibited their notable potential as AChE inhibitors. The observed significant 
inhibitory activity suggested that these derivatives warrant further exploration 
as candidates for developing therapeutic agents in AChE inhibitory pathways. 
This study emphasizes the relevance of quinazoline derivatives in searching for 
novel treatments for neurological disorders, particularly associated with 
cholinergic dysfunction, and they could be a useful alternative therapeutic 
agent.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273315412241009092249
PMID: 39473101


45. Mol Psychiatry. 2025 May;30(5):1985-1994. doi: 10.1038/s41380-024-02809-w.
Epub  2024 Oct 29.

Peripheral innate immunophenotype in neurodegenerative disease: blood-based 
profiles and links to survival.

Strauss A(1), Swann P(2), Kigar SL(2)(3), Christou R(1), Savinykh Yarkoni N(3), 
Turner L(2)(3), Murley AG(1), Chouliaras L(2), Shapiro N(1), Ashton NJ(4)(5)(6), 
Savulich G(2), Bevan-Jones WR(2), Surendranthan A(2), Blennow K(4)(7), 
Zetterberg H(4)(7)(8)(9)(10)(11), O'Brien JT(2), Rowe JB(1)(12), Malpetti 
M(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)University of Cambridge Department of Clinical Neurosciences and Cambridge 
University Hospitals NHS Trust, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(3)Department of Medicine, University Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Banner Alzheimer's Institute and University of Arizona, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(6)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, AZ, USA.
(7)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(8)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(10)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(11)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(12)Medical Research Council Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, UK.
(13)University of Cambridge Department of Clinical Neurosciences and Cambridge 
University Hospitals NHS Trust, Cambridge, UK. mm2243@medschl.cam.ac.uk.
(14)UK Dementia Research Institute at University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. 
mm2243@medschl.cam.ac.uk.

The innate immune system plays an integral role in the progression of many 
neurodegenerative diseases. In addition to central innate immune cells (e.g., 
microglia), peripheral innate immune cells (e.g., blood monocytes, natural 
killer cells, and dendritic cells) may also differ in these conditions. However, 
the characterization of peripheral innate immune cell types across different 
neurodegenerative diseases remains incomplete. This study aimed to characterize 
peripheral innate immune profiles using flow cytometry for immunophenotyping of 
peripheral blood mononuclear cells in n = 148 people with Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), corticobasal syndrome (CBS), progressive 
supranuclear palsy (PSP), Lewy body dementia (LBD) as compared to n = 37 healthy 
controls. To compare groups, we used multivariate dissimilarity analysis and 
principal component analysis across 19 innate immune cell types. We identified 
pro-inflammatory profiles that significantly differ between patients with 
all-cause dementia and healthy controls, with some significant differences 
between patient groups. Regression analysis confirmed that time to death 
following the blood test correlated with the individuals' immune profile 
weighting, positively to TREM2+ and non-classical monocytes and negatively to 
classical monocytes. Taken together, these results describe transdiagnostic 
peripheral immune profiles and highlight the link between prognosis and the 
monocyte cellular subdivision and function (as measured by surface protein 
expression). The results suggest that blood-derived innate immune profiles can 
inform sub-populations of cells relevant for specific neurodegenerative diseases 
that are significantly linked to accelerated disease progression and worse 
survival outcomes across diagnoses. Blood-based innate immune profiles may 
contribute to enhanced precision medicine approaches in dementia, helping to 
identify and monitor therapeutic targets and stratify patients for candidate 
immunotherapies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41380-024-02809-w
PMCID: PMC12015116
PMID: 39472664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to report related to this work. Unrelated to this work, 
JTO has received honoraria for work as DSMB chair or member for TauRx, Axon, 
Eisai and Novo Nordisk, and has acted as a consultant for Biogen and Roche, and 
has received research support from Alliance Medical and Merck. JBR is a 
non-remunerated trustee of the Guarantors of Brain, Darwin College and the PSP 
Association (UK). He provides consultancy unrelated to the current work to 
Asceneuron, Alector, Astronautx, Astex, Curasen, ClinicalInk, CumulusNeuro, 
Wave, SVHealth, and has research grants from AZ-Medimmune, Janssen, and Lilly as 
industry partners in the Dementias Platform UK. M.M. has acted as a consultant 
for Astex Pharmaceuticals. H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards and/or 
as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work).


46. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 29;14(1):26002. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-77876-8.

Fusing convolutional learning and attention-based Bi-LSTM networks for early 
Alzheimer's diagnosis from EEG signals towards IoMT.

Khosravi M(1)(2)(3), Parsaei H(4)(5), Rezaee K(6), Helfroush MS(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Physics and Engineering, School of Medicine, Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. mohammadr.khosravi@iran.ir.
(2)IT Services, Lidoma Sanat Mehregan Part Ltd., Shiraz 71581, Fars, Iran. 
mohammadr.khosravi@iran.ir.
(3)Shandong Provincial University Laboratory for Protected Horticulture 
(SPUL4PH), Weifang University of Science and Technology, Weifang 262700, China. 
mohammadr.khosravi@iran.ir.
(4)Department of Medical Physics and Engineering, School of Medicine, Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. hparsaei@sums.ac.ir.
(5)Shiraz Neuroscience Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran. hparsaei@sums.ac.ir.
(6)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Meybod University, Meybod, Iran.
(7)Department of Electrical Engineering, Shiraz University of Technology, 
Shiraz, Iran.

The Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) is poised to play a pivotal role in future 
medical support systems, enabling pervasive health monitoring in smart cities. 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) afflicts millions globally, and this paper explores the 
potential of electroencephalogram (EEG) data in addressing this challenge. We 
propose the Convolutional Learning Attention-Bidirectional Time-Aware 
Long-Short-Term Memory (CL-ATBiLSTM) model, a deep learning approach designed to 
classify different AD phases through EEG data analysis. The model utilizes 
Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) to decompose EEG data into distinct frequency 
bands, allowing for targeted analysis of AD-related brain activity patterns. 
Additionally, the data is segmented into smaller windows to handle the dynamic 
nature of EEG signals, and these segments are transformed into spectrogram 
images, visually depicting brain activity distribution over time and frequency. 
The CL-ATBiLSTM model incorporates convolutional layers to capture spatial 
features, attention mechanisms to emphasize crucial data, and BiLSTM networks to 
explore temporal relationships within the sequences. To optimize the model's 
performance, Bayesian optimization is employed to fine-tune the hyperparameters 
of the ATBiLSTM network, enhancing its ability to generalize and accurately 
classify AD stages. Incorporating Bayesian learning ensures the most effective 
model configuration, improving sensitivity and specificity for identifying 
AD-related patterns. Our model extracts discriminative features from EEG data to 
differentiate between AD, Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), and healthy controls 
(CO), offering a more comprehensive approach than existing two-class detection 
algorithms. By including the MCI category, our method facilitates earlier 
identification and potentially more impactful therapy interventions. Achieving a 
96.52% accuracy on Figshare datasets containing AD, MCI, and CO groups, our 
approach demonstrates strong potential for practical use, accelerating AD 
identification, enhancing patient care, and contributing to the development of 
targeted treatments for this debilitating condition.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-77876-8
PMCID: PMC11522596
PMID: 39472526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


47. Eur J Med Chem. 2024 Dec 15;280:116993. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116993.
Epub  2024 Oct 21.

Design, synthesis, and pharmacological characterization of sulfonylurea-based 
NLRP3 inhibitors: Towards an effective therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's 
disease.

Lyu W(1), Gao T(1), Shi C(1), Lu D(1), Chen Y(1), Qin H(1), Yu R(1), Zhang H(1), 
Zhou X(1), Qiang B(1), Chen Q(1), Liu Y(1), Song S(1), Chen Q(2), Zhang L(3), 
Liu Z(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Natural and Biomimetic Drugs, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, 100191, China.
(2)Apeloa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Dongyang, Zhejiang, 322118, China. 
Electronic address: qing.chen@apelos.com.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Natural and Biomimetic Drugs, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, 100191, China. Electronic 
address: liangren@bjmu.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Natural and Biomimetic Drugs, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, 100191, China. Electronic 
address: zmliu@bjmu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder that severely 
diminishes the quality of life for millions. The NLRP3 inflammasome, a critical 
mediator of inflammation, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for AD. 
In this study, we report the development and optimization of a novel series of 
sulfonylurea-based NLRP3 inhibitors, with a focus on compound MC1 for the 
treatment of AD. Utilizing the co-crystal structure of MCC950 in complex with 
NLRP3 as a guide, we employed a hybrid approach of computer-aided drug design 
and traditional medicinal chemistry to perform two iterative optimization 
cycles. This strategy led to the synthesis and evaluation of 40 sulfonylurea 
derivatives, culminating in the identification of MC1 as the lead candidate. MC1 
exhibited enhanced NLRP3 inhibitory activity and demonstrated high binding 
affinity to NLRP3, effectively blocking NLRP3 activation induced by diverse 
stimuli such as ATP and Nigericin, without perturbing upstream processes like 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. In vivo experiments in AD mouse models 
revealed that MC1 significantly ameliorated cognitive deficits, surpassing the 
performance of MCC950. Importantly, MC1 showed no signs of hepatotoxicity or 
adverse effects on the central nervous system. These findings suggest that MC1 
holds strong potential as a lead compound for further development in AD therapy, 
providing a new scaffold for NLRP3 inhibition with improved safety and efficacy 
profiles.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116993
PMID: 39471709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no conflict of interest to declare.


48. Mol Diagn Ther. 2025 Jan;29(1):143. doi: 10.1007/s40291-024-00752-8.

Correction to: Molecular Therapeutics in Development to Treat Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Tartaglia MC(1)(2)(3), Ingelsson M(4)(5)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Krembil Brain Institute, University Health Network, 6th Floor, 60 Leonard 
Ave, Toronto, ON, M5T 0S8, Canada.
(2)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Krembil Brain Institute, University Health Network, 6th Floor, 60 Leonard 
Ave, Toronto, ON, M5T 0S8, Canada. martin.ingelsson@uhn.ca.
(5)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. martin.ingelsson@uhn.ca.
(6)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
martin.ingelsson@uhn.ca.
(7)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada. martin.ingelsson@uhn.ca.
(8)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Geriatrics, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, Sweden. martin.ingelsson@uhn.ca.

Erratum for
    Mol Diagn Ther. 2025 Jan;29(1):9-24. doi: 10.1007/s40291-024-00738-6.

DOI: 10.1007/s40291-024-00752-8
PMCID: PMC11748468
PMID: 39470973


49. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2025 Jun;26(3):427-442. doi: 
10.1007/s11154-024-09920-x. Epub 2024 Oct 29.

GHRH and its analogues in central nervous system diseases.

Liu Y(#)(1), Fu R(#)(2)(3), Jia H(4), Yang K(2)(3), Ren F(5), Zhou MS(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang, 110034, 
China.
(2)Science and Experiment Research Center & Shenyang Key Laboratory of Vascular 
Biology, Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang, 110034, China.
(3)Department of Physiology, Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang, 110034, China.
(4)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang, 
110034, China.
(5)Department of Anatomy, Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang, 110034, China. 
rf@symc.edu.cn.
(6)Science and Experiment Research Center & Shenyang Key Laboratory of Vascular 
Biology, Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang, 110034, China. zhoums@symc.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Physiology, Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang, 110034, China. 
zhoums@symc.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) is primarily produced by the 
hypothalamus and stimulates the release of growth hormone (GH) in the anterior 
pituitary gland, which subsequently regulates the production of hepatic 
insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). GH and IGF-1 have potent effects on 
promoting cell proliferation, inhibiting cell apoptosis, as well as regulating 
cell metabolism. In central nerve system (CNS), GHRH/GH/IGF-1 promote brain 
development and growth, stimulate neuronal proliferation, and regulate 
neurotransmitter release, thereby participating in the regulation of various CNS 
physiological activities. In addition to hypothalamus-pituitary gland, GHRH and 
GHRH receptor (GHRH-R) are also expressed in other brain cells or tissues, such 
as endogenous neural stem cells (NSCs) and tumor cells. Alternations in 
GHRH/GH/IGF-1 axis are associated with various CNS diseases, for example, 
Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and emotional disorders 
manifest GHRH, GH or IGF-1 deficiency, and GH or IGF-1 supplementation exerts 
beneficial therapeutic effects on these diseases. CNS tumors, such as glioma, 
can express GHRH and GHRH-R, and activating this signaling pathway promotes 
tumor cell growth. The synthesized GHRH antagonists have shown to inhibit glioma 
cell growth and may hold promising as an adjuvant therapy for treating glioma. 
In addition, we have shown that GHRH agonist MR-409 can improve neurological 
sequelae after ischemic stroke by activating extrapituitary GHRH-R signaling and 
promoting endogenous NSCs-derived neuronal regeneration. This article reviews 
the involvement of GHRH/GH/IGF-1 in CNS diseases, and potential roles of GHRH 
agonists and antagonists in treating CNS diseases.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11154-024-09920-x
PMID: 39470866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


50. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):9079-9081. doi: 10.1002/alz.14340. Epub
2024  Oct 29.

2024 AA criteria for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis: Mainly anchored at Aβ not 
tau.

Moscoso A(1)(2)(3), Villain N(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Nuclear Medicine Department and Molecular Imaging Group, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria de Santiago de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela, 
Spain.
(4)Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease, Department of Neurology, AP-HP 
Sorbonne Université, Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.
(5)INSERM U1127, CNRS 7225, Institut du Cerveau - ICM, Sorbonne Université, 
Paris, France.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14340
PMCID: PMC11667487
PMID: 39470319

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Independent of this work, NV received research support from Fondation 
Bettencourt‐Schueller, Fondation Servier, Union Nationale pour les Intérêts de 
la Médecine (UNIM), Fondation Claude Pompidou, Fondation Alzheimer, Banque 
Publique d'Investissement and Fondation pour la Recherche sur l'Alzheimer; 
travel grant from the Movement Disorders Society, Merz‐Pharma, UCB Pharma, and 
GE Healthcare SAS; is an unpaid local principal investigator or sub‐investigator 
in NCT04241068 and NCT05310071 (aducanumab, Biogen), NCT05399888 (BIIB080, 
Biogen), NCT03352557 (gosuranemab, Biogen), NCT05463731 (remternetug, 
Eli‐Lilly), NCT04592341 (gantenerumab, Roche), NCT03887455 (lecanemab, Eisai), 
NCT03828747 and NCT03289143 (semorinemab, Roche), NCT04619420 (JNJ‐63733657, 
Janssen – Johnson & Johnson), NCT04374136 (AL001, Alector), NCT04592874 (AL002, 
Alector), NCT04867616 (bepranemab, UCB Pharma), NCT04777396 and NCT04777409 
(semaglutide, Novo Nordisk), NCT05469360 (NIO752, Novartis); is an unpaid 
national coordinator for NCT05564169 (masitinib, ABScience) and NCT (AD04, 
ADvantage Therapeutics GmbH); has given unpaid lectures in symposia organized by 
Eisai and the Servier Foundation; has been an unpaid expert for Janssen – 
Johnson & Johnson. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


51. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2024 Oct 29;10(10):CD002115. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD002115.pub6.

Conservative, physical and surgical interventions for managing faecal 
incontinence and constipation in adults with central neurological diseases.

Todd CL(1), Johnson EE(2)(3), Stewart F(4), Wallace SA(5), Bryant A(2), Woodward 
S(1), Norton C(1).

Author information:
(1)Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery and Palliative Care, 
King's College London, London, UK.
(2)Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, UK.
(3)NIHR Innovation Observatory, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(4)c/o Cochrane Incontinence, Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(5)Evidence Synthesis Group, Population Health Sciences Institute, Faculty of 
Medical Sciences, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Jan 13;(1):CD002115. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD002115.pub5.

BACKGROUND: People with central neurological disease or injury have a much 
higher risk of both faecal incontinence (FI) and constipation than the general 
population. There is often a fine line between the two symptoms, with management 
intended to ameliorate one risking precipitating the other. Bowel problems are 
observed to be the cause of much anxiety and may reduce quality of life in these 
people. Current bowel management is largely empirical, with a limited research 
base. The review is relevant to individuals with any disease directly and 
chronically affecting the central nervous system (post-traumatic, degenerative, 
ischaemic or neoplastic), such as multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, 
cerebrovascular disease, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. This is an 
update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2001 and subsequently updated in 
2003, 2006 and 2014.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of conservative, physical and surgical 
interventions for managing FI and constipation in people with a neurological 
disease or injury affecting the central nervous system.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Incontinence Specialised Register 
(searched 27 March 2023), which includes searches of the Cochrane Central 
Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process, MEDLINE 
Epub Ahead of Print, ClinicalTrials.gov, WHO ICTRP as well as handsearching of 
journals and conference proceedings; and all reference lists of relevant 
articles.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised, quasi-randomised (where allocation 
is not strictly random), cross-over and cluster-randomised trials evaluating any 
type of conservative, physical or surgical intervention against placebo, usual 
care or no intervention for the management of FI and constipation in people with 
central neurological disease or injury.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: At least two review authors independently assessed 
the risk of bias in eligible trials using Cochrane's 'Risk of bias' tool and 
independently extracted data from the included trials using a range of 
prespecified outcome measures. We produced summary of findings tables for our 
main outcome measures and assessed the certainty of the evidence using GRADE.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 25 studies with 1598 participants. The studies were 
generally at high risk of bias due to lack of blinding of participants and 
personnel to the intervention. Half of the included studies were also at high 
risk of bias in terms of selective reporting. Outcomes were often reported 
heterogeneously across studies, making it difficult to pool data. We did not 
find enough evidence to be able to analyse the effects of interventions on 
individual central neurological diseases. Additionally, very few studies 
reported on the primary outcomes of self-reported improvement in FI or 
constipation, or Neurogenic Bowel Dysfunction Score. Conservative interventions 
compared with usual care, no active treatment or placebo Thirteen studies 
assessed this comparison. The interventions included assessment-based nursing, 
holistic nursing, probiotics, psyllium, faecal microbiota transplantation, and a 
stepwise protocol of increasingly invasive evacuation methods. Conservative 
interventions may result in a large improvement in faecal incontinence 
(standardised mean difference (SMD) -1.85, 95% confidence interval (CI) -3.47 to 
-0.23; 3 studies; n = 410; low-certainty evidence). We interpreted SMD ≥ 0.80 as 
a large effect. It was not possible to pool all data from studies that assessed 
improvement in constipation, but the evidence suggested that conservative 
interventions may improve constipation symptoms (data not pooled; 8 studies; n = 
612; low-certainty evidence). Conservative interventions may lead to a reduction 
in mean time taken on bowel care (data not pooled; 5 studies; n = 526; 
low-certainty evidence). The evidence is uncertain about the effects of 
conservative interventions on condition-specific quality of life and adverse 
events. Neurogenic Bowel Dysfunction Score was not reported. Physical therapy 
compared with usual care, no active treatment or placebo Twelve studies assessed 
this comparison. The interventions included massage therapy, standing, 
osteopathic manipulative treatment, electrical stimulation, transanal 
irrigation, and conventional physical therapy with visceral mobilisation. 
Physical therapies may make little to no difference to self-reported faecal 
continence assessed using the St Mark's Faecal Incontinence Score, where the 
minimally important difference is five, or the Cleveland Constipation Score (MD 
-2.60, 95% CI -4.91 to -0.29; 3 studies; n = 155; low-certainty evidence). 
Physical therapies may result in a moderate improvement in constipation symptoms 
(SMD -0.62, 95% CI -1.10 to -0.14; 9 studies; n = 431; low-certainty evidence). 
We interpreted SMD ≥ 0.5 as a moderate effect. However, physical therapies may 
make little to no difference in Neurogenic Bowel Dysfunction Score as the 
minimally important difference for this tool is 3 (MD -1.94, 95% CI -3.36 to 
-0.51; 7 studies; n = 358; low-certainty evidence). We are very uncertain about 
the effects of physical therapies on the time spent on bowel care, 
condition-specific quality of life and adverse effects (all very low-certainty 
evidence). Surgical interventions compared with usual care, no active treatment 
or placebo No studies were found for surgical interventions that met the 
inclusion criteria for this review.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There remains little research on this common and, for 
patients, very significant issue of bowel management. The available evidence is 
almost uniformly of low methodological quality. The clinical significance of 
some of the research findings presented here is difficult to interpret, not 
least because each intervention has only been addressed in individual trials, 
against control rather than compared against each other, and the interventions 
are very different from each other. Understanding whether there is a 
clinically-meaningful difference from the results of available trials is largely 
hampered by the lack of uniform outcome measures. This is due to an absence of 
core outcome sets, and development of these needs to be a research priority to 
allow studies to be compared directly. Some studies used validated constipation, 
incontinence or condition-specific measures; however, others used unvalidated 
analogue scales to report effectiveness. Some studies did not use any 
patient-reported outcomes and focused on physiological outcome measures, which 
is of relatively limited significance in terms of clinical implementation. There 
was evidence in favour of some conservative interventions, but these findings 
need to be confirmed by larger, well-designed controlled trials, which should 
include evaluation of the acceptability of the intervention to patients and the 
effect on their quality of life.

Copyright © 2024 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002115.pub6
PMCID: PMC11520510
PMID: 39470206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CT: None declared EEJ: was Assistant Managing 
Editor for Cochrane Incontinence until 31 March 2023 and is an Editor for 
Cochrane. She was not involved in any part of the editorial process for this 
review. FS: None declared AB: None declared ShW: None declared SW: None declared 
CN: was not involved in the selection, data extraction or risk of bias 
assessment of any studies for which she was an author (Coggrave 2010, McClurg 
2018, Harari 2004). Single lecture fees from Medscape and Janssen Biotech were 
received in the past 3 years.


52. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):8728-8738. doi: 10.1002/alz.14326. Epub
2024  Oct 29.

Latent change-on-change between amyloid accumulation and cognitive decline.

Klinger HM(1), Healy BC(1), Hanseeuw BJ(2)(3), Jones RN(4), Boyle R(1), Townsend 
DL(1), Properzi MJ(1), Coughlan GT(1), Seto M(1)(5), Birkenbihl C(1), Farrell 
ME(1), Papp KV(5), Chhatwal JP(1)(5), Yang HS(1), Schultz AP(1)(6), Amariglio 
RE(5), Jacobs HIL(2), Price JC(2), Johnson KA(2), Rentz DM(5), Sperling 
RA(1)(5), Buckley RF(1)(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, Institute of 
Neurosciences, UCLouvain, Belgium.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Brown University, Warren Alpert 
Medical School, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Department of Radiology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: While the influence of cross-sectional β-amyloid (Aβ) on 
longitudinal changes in cognition is well established, longitudinal 
change-on-change between Aβ and cognition is less explored.
METHODS: A series of bivariate latent change score models (LCSM) examined the 
relationship between changes in 11C-Pittsburgh Compound-B (PiB) positron 
emission tomography (PET) and the Preclinical Alzheimer's Cognitive Composite-5 
(PACC-5) while adjusting for covariates, including cross-sectional medial 
temporal lobe (MTL) tau-PET burden. We selected 352 clinically normal older 
participants with up to 9 years of PiB-PET and PACC-5 data from the Harvard 
Aging Brain Study (HABS).
RESULTS: Aβ accumulation was associated with subsequent cognitive decline beyond 
the effects of cross-sectional Aβ burden. Within this model including covariates 
such as age, sex, and apolipoprotein ε4 (APOEε4) status, we found no evidence 
supporting previously published associations between cross-sectional tau-PET and 
cognitive intercept/slope.
DISCUSSION: Short-term Aβ changes are significantly associated with cognitive 
decline in clinically normal older adults and may eclipse the effect of 
cross-sectional Aβ and MTL tau.
HIGHLIGHTS: Aβ accumulation is associated with subsequent cognitive decline. 
High Aβ burden is not the sole metric signaling impending cognitive decline. 
Contrary to prior work, MTL tau-PET and cognition were not associated in our 
models. Models of bivariate latent Aβ and cognitive change may eclipse 
the effects of MTL tau.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14326
PMCID: PMC11667500
PMID: 39470175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors report any disclosures 
relevant to this manuscript. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


53. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):8651-8660. doi: 10.1002/alz.14309. Epub
2024  Oct 29.

A short version of the Everyday Cognition scale can predict clinical progression 
and cognitive decline.

Manjavong M(1), Diaz A(2)(3)(4), Ashford MT(2)(3)(4), Aaronson A(3)(4), Miller 
MJ(2)(3)(4), Kang JM(5), Mackin S(3)(4)(6), Tank R(7), Weiner M(2)(3)(4)(8)(9), 
Nosheny R(3)(4)(6); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen, Thailand.
(2)Northern California Institute for Research and Education (NCIRE), San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(3)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, VA Advanced Imaging Research 
Center, San Francisco, California, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Gil Medical Center, Gachon University College of 
Medicine, Incheon, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(7)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Institute of Neurology, University College 
London, London, UK.
(8)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(9)Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Everyday Cognition scale (ECog-39) scores are associated with 
future cognitive decline. We investigated whether the 12-item ECog (ECog-12), 
which is being collected in Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI)4, 
can predict progression.
METHODS: Baseline self (PT)- and study partner (SP)-ECog-12 data were extracted 
from the 39-item version collected in the ADNI. Weibull analysis examined the 
relationship between baseline ECog-12 and future clinical progression (change in 
Clinical Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes [CDR-SB] scores and diagnostic 
conversion).
RESULTS: Higher PT- and SP-ECog-12 scores were associated with faster CDR-SB 
worsening, with hazard ratios in cognitively unimpaired (CU) 3.34 and 9.61, mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) 1.44 and 2.82, and dementia 0.93 and 1.82. They were 
associated with conversion from CU to MCI 3.01 and 6.24 and MCI to dementia 1.61 
and 3.07.
DISCUSSION: SP-ECog-12 provided a higher prognostic value for predicting 
clinical progression, so this can help identify and monitor patients at risk in 
research and health-care settings.
HIGHLIGHTS: The 12-item Everyday Cognition scale (ECog-12) data obtained from 
both raters increased diagnostic conversion risk from cognitively unimpaired to 
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and from MCI to dementia. ECog-12, rated by 
study partners, was associated with an increased risk of Clinical Dementia 
Rating Sum of Boxes worsening in all diagnostic groups. Our results provide 
novel information about the specific scoring outputs and rater types 
(participant vs. study partner) of ECog-12 that can facilitate screening, 
prioritization, and longitudinal monitoring of the clinical progression of 
participants in Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 4 and other 
Alzheimer's disease clinical studies, clinical trials, and in health-care 
settings.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14309
PMCID: PMC11667505
PMID: 39470161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Manchumad Manjavong has no conflicts of 
interest to declare. Adam Diaz has no conflicts of interest to declare. Dr. 
Miriam T. Ashford receives funding to her institution from NIH. Anna Aaronson 
has no conflicts of interest to declare. Dr. Melanie J. Miller has no conflicts 
of interest to declare. Dr. Jae Myeong Kang has no conflicts of interest to 
declare. Dr. R. Scott Mackin has received research support from The National 
Institute of Mental Health, the National Institute on Aging, and Johnson and 
Johnson, during the past 2 years. Dr. Rachana Tank has no conflicts of interest 
to declare. Dr. Weiner reports grants from National Institutes of Health (NIH), 
grants from Department of Defense (DOD), grants from Patient‐Centered Outcomes 
Research Institute (PCORI), grants from California Department of Public Health 
(CDPH), grants from University of Michigan, grants from Siemens, grants from 
Biogen, grants from Hillblom Foundation, grants from Alzheimer's Association, 
grants from The State of California, grants from Johnson & Johnson, grants from 
Kevin and Connie Shanahan, grants from GE, grants from VUmc, grants from 
Australian Catholic University (HBI‐BHR), grants from The Stroke Foundation, 
grants from Veterans Administration, personal fees from Acumen Pharmaceutical, 
personal fees from Cerecin, personal fees from Dolby Family Ventures, personal 
fees from Eli Lilly, personal fees from Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., personal fees 
from National Institute on Aging (NIA), personal fees from Nestle/Nestec, 
personal fees from PCORI/PPRN, personal fees from Roche, personal fees from 
University of Southern California (USC), personal fees from NervGen, personal 
fees from Baird Equity Capital, personal fees from BioClinica, personal fees 
from Cytox, personal fees from Duke University, personal fees from Eisai, 
personal fees from FUJIFILM‐Toyama Chemical (Japan), personal fees from Garfield 
Weston, personal fees from Genentech, personal fees from Guidepoint Global, 
personal fees from Indiana University, personal fees from Japanese Organization 
for Medical Device Development, Inc. (JOMDD), personal fees from Medscape, 
personal fees from Peerview Internal Medicine, personal fees from Roche, 
personal fees from T3D Therapeutics, personal fees from WebMD, personal fees 
from Vida Ventures, personal fees from The Buck Institute for Research on Aging, 
personal fees from China Association for Alzheimer's Disease (CAAD), personal 
fees from Japan Society for Dementia Research, personal fees from Korean 
Dementia Society, outside the submitted work; and holds stocks or options with 
Alzheon Inc., Alzeca, and Anven. Dr. Rachel L. Nosheny reports funding from the 
National Institutes of Health (grants to institution), California Department of 
Public Health (grants to institution), and Genentech Inc. (grants to 
institution). Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


54. J Mater Chem B. 2024 Dec 4;12(47):12239-12250. doi: 10.1039/d4tb01313a.

A Ru(3+)-functionalized-NMOF nanozyme as an inhibitor and disaggregator of 
β-amyloid aggregates.

Luo WC(1), Bao LN(1), Zhang Y(1), Zhang ZT(1), Li X(1), Pan MM(1), Zhang JT(1), 
Huang K(1), Xu Y(1), Xu L(1).

Author information:
(1)Tongji School of Pharmacy, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 
Wuhan 430030, China. kunhuang@hust.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) heavily impacts human lives and is becoming serious as 
societies age. Inhibiting and disaggregating β-amyloid aggregates is a possible 
solution for AD therapy. In this study, a novel type of nanozyme based on 
Ru3+-chelated nanoscale metal organic frameworks (Ru3+-NMOFs), displaying strong 
peroxidase-like activity, was proposed as an inhibitor and disaggregator of 
β-amyloid aggregates. As a high concentration of hydrogen peroxide is present at 
the sites of β-amyloid aggregates, Ru3+-NMOFs could catalyze the conversion of 
hydrogen peroxide to hydroxyl radicals. Thus, these hydroxyl radicals would 
attack the β-amyloid chain, oxidizing it to enhance its hydrophilicity, which 
results in a decreased hydrophobic interaction and reduced degree of 
aggregation. Ru3+-NMOFs could effectively inhibit as well as disaggregate 
β-amyloid fibrils both in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, the reduction of the 
β-amyloid aggregates and the attenuation of reactive oxygen species transfer led 
to lower levels of inflammatory factors, which could be beneficial in 
alleviating AD symptoms. In a typical treatment, Ru3+-NMOFs could mitigate the 
paralysis of C. elegans CL2120 and elevate survival rates. This study opens a 
new avenue for MOF-based nanozymes as potential treatment agents for AD therapy.

DOI: 10.1039/d4tb01313a
PMID: 39470003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Clin Sci (Lond). 2024 Nov 6;138(21):1357-1369. doi: 10.1042/CS20230317.

Untangling the role of tau in sex hormone responsive cancers: lessons learnt 
from Alzheimer's disease.

Barker RM(1), Chambers A(1), Kehoe PG(2), Rowe E(3), Perks CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Endocrinology Group, Learning & Research Building, Southmead Hospital, 
Translational Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, Bristol BS10 5NB, UK.
(2)Department of Urology, Bristol Urological Institute, Southmead Hospital, 
Bristol BS10 5NB, UK.
(3)Dementia Research Group, Learning & Research Building, Southmead Hospital, 
Translational Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, Bristol BS10 5NB, UK.

Tubulin associated unit has been extensively studied in neurodegenerative 
diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD), whereby its hyperphosphorylation 
and accumulation contributes to disease pathogenesis. Tau is abundantly 
expressed in the central nervous system but is also present in non-neuronal 
tissues and in tumours including sex hormone responsive cancers such as breast 
and prostate. Curiously, hormonal effects on tau also exist in an AD context 
from numerous studies on menopause, hormone replacement therapy, and androgen 
deprivation therapy. Despite sharing some risk factors, most importantly 
advancing age, there are numerous reports from population studies of, currently 
poorly explained inverse associations between cancer and Alzheimer's disease. We 
previously reviewed important components of the 
phosphoinositide-3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/Akt) signalling pathway and 
their differential modulation in relation to the two diseases. Similarly, 
receptor tyrosine kinases, estrogen receptor and androgen receptor have all been 
implicated in the pathogenesis of both cancer and AD. In this review, we focus 
on tau and its effects in hormone responsive cancer in terms of development, 
progression, and treatment and in relation to sex hormones and PI3K/Akt 
signalling molecules including IRS-1, PTEN, Pin1, and p53.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/CS20230317
PMCID: PMC11522895
PMID: 39469929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests associated with the manuscript.


56. Nanoscale. 2024 Nov 21;16(45):20917-20924. doi: 10.1039/d4nr02044h.

Biocatalytic ZIF-8 surface-functionalized micromotors navigating in the 
cerebrospinal fluid: toward Alzheimer management.

Bujalance-Fernández J(1), Carro E(2)(3), Jurado-Sánchez B(1)(4), Escarpa 
A(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Physical Chemistry, and Chemical 
Engineering, Universidad de Alcala, Alcala de Henares, E-28802 Madrid, Spain. 
beatriz.jurado@uah.es.
(2)Chronic Disease Programme, UFIEC, Carlos III Health Institute, Majadahonda, 
Madrid, 28220, Spain.
(3)CIBERNED, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Chemical Research Institute "Andres M. del Rio", Universidad de Alcala, 
E-28802, Madrid, Spain.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the major cause of irreversible dementia in the 
elderly population worldwide and one of the major causes of the decrease in the 
quality of life. Efficient diagnosis and monitoring would allow a fast treatment 
to delay the appearance of symptoms. Herein, zeolitic imidazole framework 
(ZIF-8)@Au@catalase micromotors are described for motion-based sensing of copper 
as a marker of AD. The synthesis design was based on enzyme covalent 
immobilization instead of encapsulation to maximize the contact with the sample 
at the microscale for the potential use of extremely low AD-diagnosed sample 
volumes. The micromotors are prepared by asymmetric modification of ZIF-8 with a 
gold layer for functionalization of catalase as a compatible biocatalyst. The 
micromotors can propel at speeds of up to 287 ± 41 μm s-1 in cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) samples of healthy volunteers. Yet, in the presence of copper, catalase 
poisoning results in a decrease in the speed that can be monitored for 
motion-based sensing detection, as illustrated in the analysis of CSF samples 
from AD patients from mild to severe stages (Braak III to Braak VI). The 
copper-mediated modulation of catalase activity proposed here as an indicator of 
progression states in AD disease possesses distinct advantages such as ultrafast 
analysis (less than 1 min) and requiring only 1 μL of sample, holding 
considerable promise as a supporting prescreening tool for fast diagnosis of AD 
and other neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1039/d4nr02044h
PMID: 39469769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Front Neurol. 2024 Oct 14;15:1417183. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1417183. 
eCollection 2024.

Potential association between COVID-19 and neurological disorders: analysis of 
common genes and therapeutics.

Chen W(#)(1), Jiang S(#)(1), Li C(#)(1), Li S(#)(1), Wang J(2), Xu R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Jiangxi Provincial People's Hospital, The Clinical 
College of Nanchang Medical College, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
Medical College, National Regional Center for Neurological Diseases, Xiangya 
Hospital of Central South University Jiangxi Hospital, Nanchang, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, China.
(#)Contributed equally

As the COVID-19 pandemic persists, the increasing evidences suggest that the 
patients with COVID-19 may face the risks of the neurological complications and 
sequelae. To address this issue, we conducted a comprehensive study aimed at 
exploring the relationship between COVID-19 and various neurological disorders, 
with a particular focus on the shared dysregulated genes and the potential 
therapeutic targets. We selected six neurological disorders for investigation, 
including Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, stroke, Parkinson's disease, and the 
sleep disorders. Through the bioinformatics analysis of the association between 
these disorders and COVID-19, we aimed to uncover the common molecular 
mechanisms and the potential treatment pathways. In this study, we utilized the 
publicly available RNA-Seq and microarray datasets, and employed tools such as 
Limma and DESeq2 for the differential gene analysis. Through the Gene Ontology 
and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis, we 
explored the common biological features and pathways. Additionally, we focused 
on analyzing the regulatory roles of miRNA and transcription factors on the 
shared differentially expressed genes, and predicted the potential drugs 
interacting with these genes. These analyses contribute to a better 
understanding of the relationship between COVID-19 and the neurological 
disorders, and provide a theoretical basis for the future treatment strategies. 
Through this research, we aim to offer the deeper insights to the scientific 
community and present the new perspectives for the clinical practice in 
addressing the challenges of the neurological complications and sequelae faced 
by the COVID-19 patients.

Copyright © 2024 Chen, Jiang, Li, Li, Wang and Xu.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1417183
PMCID: PMC11513677
PMID: 39469068

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


58. Sheng Li Xue Bao. 2024 Oct 25;76(5):752-760.

[Research progress on chronic intermittent hypoxia and cognitive impairment].

[Article in Chinese]

Qi KR(1), Chen X(1), Si JC(1), Yang SC(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Hebei University of Chinese Medicine, Shijiazhuang 
050091, China.
(2)Department of Physiology, Hebei University of Chinese Medicine, Shijiazhuang 
050091, China. yscdekaoyan@163.com.
(3)Hebei Technology Innovation Center of TCM Combined Hydrogen Medicine, 
Shijiazhuang 050091, China.

Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) affects quality of life and health in nearly 1 
billion patients all over the world. With aging society, OSA increases the risk 
of Alzheimer's disease and leads to severe cognitive impairment. Chronic 
intermittent hypoxia (CIH), the core pathological mechanism of OSA, may induce 
synaptic plasticity damage and cognitive impairment, and decrease learning and 
memory and attention ability. However, the molecular mechanism underlying OSA is 
still not fully understood. And, there is no targeted treatment strategy for 
cognitive impairment in patients with OSA. Firstly, the correlation between OSA 
and cognitive dysfunction was summarized in this review. Secondly, the molecular 
mechanism of CIH-induced cognitive impairment was elucidated from the 
perspectives of synaptic plasticity damage, oxidative stress, inflammation, 
endoplasmic reticulum stress, apoptosis, mitochondrial dysfunction and 
autophagy. Finally, the current treatment strategy for cognitive impairment in 
patients with OSA was summarized.

PMID: 39468811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Brain. 2025 Feb 3;148(2):416-431. doi: 10.1093/brain/awae346.

A comprehensive head-to-head comparison of key plasma phosphorylated tau 217 
biomarker tests.

Warmenhoven N(1), Salvadó G(1), Janelidze S(1), Mattsson-Carlgren N(1)(2)(3), 
Bali D(1), Orduña Dolado A(1), Kolb H(4), Triana-Baltzer G(4), Barthélemy 
NR(5)(6), Schindler SE(6)(7)(8), Aschenbrenner AJ(6), Raji CA(7)(9), Benzinger 
TLS(7)(9), Morris JC(6)(7), Ibanez L(10)(11), Timsina J(10)(11), Cruchaga 
C(10)(11), Bateman RJ(5)(6)(7)(8), Ashton N(12)(13)(14)(15), Arslan B(12), 
Zetterberg H(12)(16)(17)(18)(19)(20), Blennow K(12)(16), Pichet Binette A(1), 
Hansson O(1)(21).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Malmö 211 46, Sweden.
(2)Department of Neurology, Skåne University Hospital, Lund University, Malmö 
205 02, Sweden.
(3)Wallenberg Center for Molecular Medicine, Lund University, Lund 223 62, 
Sweden.
(4)Neuroscience Biomarkers, Johnson and Johnson Innovative Medicine, San Diego, 
CA 92123, USA.
(5)The Tracy Family SILQ Center, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO 63108, USA.
(7)Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA.
(8)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA.
(9)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO 63110, USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(11)Hope Center Program on Protein Aggregation and Neurodegeneration, Washington 
University, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(12)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal 431 
39, Sweden.
(13)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience 
Maurice Wohl Institute Clinical Neuroscience Institute, London SE5 9RT, UK.
(14)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health and Biomedical Research 
Unit for Dementia, South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation, London SE5 8AF, UK.
(15)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger 
4011, Norway.
(16)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal 
431 80, Sweden.
(17)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London 
WC1N 3BG, UK.
(18)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London W1T 7NF, 
UK.
(19)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong Science Park, 
Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong, China.
(20)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI 53792-2420, USA.
(21)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Lund University, Malmö 205 02, 
Sweden.

Comment in
    Brain. 2025 Feb 3;148(2):354-356. doi: 10.1093/brain/awaf007.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Jul 05:2024.07.02.24309629. doi: 10.1101/2024.07.02.24309629.

Plasma phosphorylated-tau 217 (p-tau217) is currently the most promising 
biomarker for reliable detection of Alzheimer's disease pathology. Various 
p-tau217 assays have been developed, but their relative performance is unclear. 
We compared key plasma p-tau217 tests using cross-sectional and longitudinal 
measures of amyloid-β (Aβ)-PET, tau-PET and cognition as outcomes and 
benchmarked them against CSF biomarker tests. Samples from 998 individuals [mean 
(range) age 68.5 (20.0-92.5) years, 53% female] from the Swedish BioFINDER-2 
cohort, including both cognitively unimpaired and cognitively impaired 
individuals, were analysed. Plasma p-tau217 was measured with mass spectrometry 
assays [the ratio between phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated (%p-tau217WashU) 
and p-tau217WashU] and with immunoassays (p-tau217Lilly, p-tau217Janssen and 
p-tau217ALZpath). CSF biomarkers included p-tau217Lilly, the US Food and Drug 
Administration-approved p-tau181/Aβ42Elecsys, and p-tau181Elecsys. All plasma 
p-tau217 tests exhibited a high ability to detect abnormal Aβ-PET [area under 
the curve (AUC) range: 0.91-0.96] and tau-PET (AUC range: 0.94-0.97). Plasma 
%p-tau217WashU had the highest performance, with significantly higher AUCs than 
all the immunoassays (Pdiff < 0.007). For detecting Aβ-PET status, 
%p-tau217WashU had an accuracy of 0.93 (immunoassays: 0.83-0.88), sensitivity of 
0.91 (immunoassays: 0.84-0.87) and a specificity of 0.94 (immunoassays: 
0.85-0.89). Among immunoassays, p-tau217Lilly and plasma p-tau217ALZpath had 
higher AUCs than plasma p-tau217Janssen for Aβ-PET status (Pdiff < 0.006), and 
p-tau217Lilly outperformed plasma p-tau217ALZpath for tau-PET status (Pdiff = 
0.025). Plasma %p-tau217WashU exhibited stronger associations with all PET load 
outcomes compared with immunoassays; baseline Aβ-PET load (R2: 0.72; 
immunoassays: 0.47-0.58; Pdiff < 0.001), baseline tau-PET load (R2: 0.51; 
immunoassays: 0.38-0.45; Pdiff < 0.001), longitudinal Aβ-PET load (R2: 0.53; 
immunoassays: 0.31-0.38; Pdiff < 0.001) and longitudinal tau-PET load (R2: 0.50; 
immunoassays: 0.35-0.43; Pdiff < 0.014). Among immunoassays, plasma 
p-tau217Lilly was more associated with Aβ-PET load than plasma p-tau217Janssen 
(Pdiff < 0.020) and with tau-PET load than both plasma p-tau217Janssen and 
plasma p-tau217ALZpath (all Pdiff < 0.010). Plasma %p-tau217 also correlated 
more strongly with baseline cognition (Mini-Mental State Examination) than all 
immunoassays (R2: %p-tau217WashU: 0.33; immunoassays: 0.27-0.30; Pdiff < 0.024). 
The main results were replicated in an external cohort from Washington 
University in St Louis (n = 219). Finally, p-tau217NULISA showed similar 
performance to other immunoassays in subsets of both cohorts. In summary, both 
mass spectrometry- and immunoassay-based p-tau217 tests generally perform well 
in identifying Aβ-PET, tau-PET and cognitive abnormalities, but %p-tau217WashU 
performed significantly better than all the examined immunoassays. Plasma 
%p-tau217 may be considered as a stand-alone confirmatory test for Alzheimer's 
disease pathology, whereas some immunoassays might be better suited as triage 
tests where positive results are confirmed with a second test, which needs to be 
determined by future reviews incorporating results from multiple cohorts.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awae346
PMCID: PMC11788211
PMID: 39468767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: N.W., G.S., S.J., N.M.C., D.B., A.O.D., H.K., 
A.A., C.A.R., T.L.S.B., J.C.M., L.I., J.T., N.A., B.A., K.B. and A.P.B. report 
no competing interests. N.R.B. is co-inventor on a US patent application 
‘Methods to detect novel tau species in CSF and use thereof to track tau 
neuropathology in Alzheimer’s disease and other tauopathies’, and ‘CSF 
phosphorylated tau and Amyloid beta profiles as biomarkers of tauopathies’. 
N.R.B. is co-inventor on a non-provisional patent application ‘Methods of 
Diagnosing and Treating Based on Site-Specific Tau Phosphorylation’. N.R.B. 
receives royalty income based on technology (blood plasma assay and methods of 
diagnosing AD with phosphorylation changes) licensed by Washington University to 
C2N Diagnostics. G.T.B. is an employee of Johnson and Johnson Innovative 
Medicine. S.E.S. has received consultancy/speaker fees from Eisai, Eli Lilly and 
Novo Nordisk. C.C. has received research support from: GSK and EISAI. C.C. is a 
member of the scientific advisory board of Circular Genomics and owns stocks. 
C.C. is a member of the scientific advisory board of Admit. H.Z. has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey 
Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics and 
Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk and Roche, and is a co-founder of 
Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). N.R.B. and R.J.B. are 
co-inventors on a non-provisional patent application: ‘Methods of diagnosing and 
treating based on site-specific tau phosphorylation’. R.J.B. is a co-inventor on 
US patent applications: ‘Methods to detect novel tau species in CSF and use 
thereof to track tau neuropathology in Alzheimer’s disease and other 
tauopathies’ and ‘CSF phosphorylated tau and amyloid beta profiles as biomarkers 
of tauopathies’. R.J.B. co-founded C2N Diagnostics. Washington University and 
R.J.B. have equity ownership interest in C2N Diagnostics and receive royalty 
income based on technology (stable isotope labelling kinetics, blood plasma 
assay and methods of diagnosing Alzheimer’s disease with phosphorylation 
changes) that is licensed by Washington University to C2N Diagnostics. R.J.B. 
receives income from C2N Diagnostics for serving on the scientific advisory 
board. R.J.B. has received research funding from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, 
Janssen, Roche/Genentech, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Biogen, AbbVie, Bristol Myers Squibb 
and Novartis. O.H. has acquired research support (for the institution) from AVID 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, C2N Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Fujirebio, GE 
Healthcare, and Roche. In the past 2 years, he has received consultancy/speaker 
fees from Alzpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol Meyer Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi and Siemens.


60. Transl Neurodegener. 2024 Oct 29;13(1):52. doi: 10.1186/s40035-024-00445-6.

TRPV1 alleviates APOE4-dependent microglial antigen presentation and T cell 
infiltration in Alzheimer's disease.

Lu J(1), Wu K(1), Sha X(1), Lin J(1), Chen H(2)(3), Yu Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China. yaoli@shsmu.edu.cn.
(3)Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 201203, China. 
yaoli@shsmu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China. yuzhihua@shsmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Persistent innate and adaptive immune responses in the brain 
contribute to the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). APOE4, the most 
important genetic risk factor for sporadic AD, encodes apolipoprotein E4, which 
by itself is a potent modulator of immune response. However, little is known 
about the immune hub that governs the crosstalk between the nervous and the 
adaptive immune systems. Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) 
channel is a ligand-gated, nonselective cation channel with Ca2+ permeability, 
which has been proposed as a neuroprotective target in AD.
METHODS: Using Ca2+-sensitive dyes, dynamic changes of Ca2+ in microglia were 
measured, including exogenous Ca2+ uptake and endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ 
release. The mRFP-GFP-tagged LC3 plasmid was expressed in microglia to 
characterize the role of TRPV1 in the autophagic flux. Transcriptomic analyses 
and flow cytometry were performed to investigate the effects of APOE4 on brain 
microglia and T cells from APOE-targeted replacement mice with 
microglia-specific TRPV1 gene deficiency.
RESULTS: Both APOE4 microglia derived from induced pluripotent stem cells of AD 
patients and APOE4-related tauopathy mouse model showed significantly increased 
cholesterol biosynthesis and accumulation compared to their APOE3 counterparts. 
Further, cholesterol dysregulation was associated with persistent activation of 
microglia and elevation of major histocompatibility complex II-dependent antigen 
presentation in microglia, subsequently accompanied by T cell infiltration. In 
addition, TRPV1-mediated transient Ca2+ influx mitigated cholesterol 
biosynthesis in microglia by suppressing the transcriptional activation of 
sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2, promoted autophagic activity and 
reduced lysosomal cholesterol accumulation, which were sufficient to resolve 
excessive immune response and neurodegeneration in APOE4-related tauopathy mouse 
model. Moreover, microglia-specific deficiency of TRPV1 gene accelerated glial 
inflammation, T cell response and associated neurodegeneration in an 
APOE4-related tauopathy mouse model.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings provide new perspectives for the treatment of 
APOE4-dependent neurodegeneration including AD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40035-024-00445-6
PMCID: PMC11520887
PMID: 39468688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.61. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 28;14(1):25741. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-75204-8.

Critical assessment of anti-amyloid-β monoclonal antibodies effects in 
Alzheimer's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis highlighting target 
engagement and clinical meaningfulness.

Avgerinos KI(1), Manolopoulos A(2), Ferrucci L(3), Kapogiannis D(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Wayne State University, Detroit Medical Center, 
University Health Center, 8th floor, 4201 St. Antoine, Detroit, MI, 48201, USA.
(2)Intramural Research Program, Laboratory of Clinical Investigation, National 
Institute on Aging, NIH, Baltimore, MD, 21224, USA.
(3)Intramural Research Program, Longitudinal Studies Section, National Institute 
on Aging, NIH, 251 Bayview Blvd, Ste 8C228, Baltimore, MD, 21224, USA.
(4)Intramural Research Program, Laboratory of Clinical Investigation, National 
Institute on Aging, NIH, Baltimore, MD, 21224, USA. kapogiannisd@mail.nih.gov.

Despite most monoclonal antibodies against Aβ in Alzheimer's failed to 
demonstrate efficacy, the newest antibodies showed statistically significant 
clinical effects. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess 
the efficacy, target engagement, and safety of anti-Aβ antibodies in sporadic AD 
including phase III RCTs published up to November 28, 2023. Antibodies as a drug 
class, attenuated worsening on the clinical scales CDR-SB and ADAS-Cog by very 
small effect sizes and reduced amyloid on PET by a very large effect size. 
Reduction of amyloid on PET was moderately correlated with CDR-SB and ADAS-Cog 
reductions. However, antibodies increased risk of ARIA-E and ARIA-H by a very 
large and moderate effect size, respectively. In subgroup analyses by individual 
drug, Donanemab and Lecanemab induced the largest benefits. In subgroup analyses 
by binding affinity, antibodies without binding to monomers were associated with 
the most favorable effects. Despite statistical significance for improvement on 
clinical measures, antibody effects were below the threshold of clinically 
meaningful change during the period they were studied. However, the newest 
antibodies demonstrably interfere with the underlying ΑD pathophysiology and 
therefore their benefit could be cumulative over time leading to larger clinical 
effects in subsequent years. PROSPERO registration no. CRD42022381334.

© 2024. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-75204-8
PMCID: PMC11520896
PMID: 39468148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


62. Cell Death Dis. 2024 Oct 28;15(10):782. doi: 10.1038/s41419-024-07152-0.

The link between amyloid β and ferroptosis pathway in Alzheimer's disease 
progression.

Majerníková N(1)(2), Marmolejo-Garza A(1)(3), Salinas CS(1), Luu MDA(1), Zhang 
Y(1), Trombetta-Lima M(1)(4), Tomin T(5), Birner-Gruenberger R(5), Lehtonen 
Š(6)(7), Koistinaho J(7), Wolters JC(8), Ayton S(9), den Dunnen WFA(10), Dolga 
AM(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Groningen Research Institute of 
Pharmacy, Research School of Behavioural and Cognitive Neuroscience, University 
of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Pathology and Medical Biology, Research Institute Brain and 
Cognition, Molecular Neuroscience and Aging Research, Research School of 
Behavioural and Cognitive Neuroscience, University Medical Centre Groningen, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences of Cells and Systems, Molecular 
Neurobiology Section, University of Groningen, University Medical Center, 
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology and Biopharmacy, Groningen Research 
Institute of Pharmacy, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(5)Institute of Chemical Technologies and Analytics, Faculty of Technical 
Chemistry, Technische Universität Wien, Vienna, Austria.
(6)A. I. Virtanen Institute for Molecular Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(7)Neuroscience Center, HiLIFE, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(8)Laboratory of Pediatrics, Section Systems Medicine of Metabolism and 
Signaling, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Groningen, University 
Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(9)The Florey Neuroscience Institute, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, 
VIC, Australia.
(10)Department of Pathology and Medical Biology, Research Institute Brain and 
Cognition, Molecular Neuroscience and Aging Research, Research School of 
Behavioural and Cognitive Neuroscience, University Medical Centre Groningen, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. w.f.a.den.dunnen@umcg.nl.
(11)Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Groningen Research Institute of 
Pharmacy, Research School of Behavioural and Cognitive Neuroscience, University 
of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. a.m.dolga@rug.nl.
(12)Department of Pathology and Medical Biology, Research Institute Brain and 
Cognition, Molecular Neuroscience and Aging Research, Research School of 
Behavioural and Cognitive Neuroscience, University Medical Centre Groningen, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. a.m.dolga@rug.nl.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects millions of people worldwide and represents the 
most prevalent form of dementia. Treatment strategies aiming to interfere with 
the formation of amyloid β (Aβ) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), the 
two major AD hallmarks, have shown modest or no effect. Recent evidence suggests 
that ferroptosis, a type of programmed cell death caused by iron accumulation 
and lipid peroxidation, contributes to AD pathogenesis. The existing link 
between ferroptosis and AD has been largely based on cell culture and animal 
studies, while evidence from human brain tissue is limited. Here we evaluate if 
Aβ is associated with ferroptosis pathways in post-mortem human brain tissue and 
whether ferroptosis inhibition could attenuate Aβ-related effects in human brain 
organoids. Performing positive pixel density scoring on immunohistochemically 
stained post-mortem Brodmann Area 17 sections revealed that the progression of 
AD pathology was accompanied by decreased expression of nuclear receptor 
co-activator 4 and glutathione peroxidase 4 in the grey matter. Differentiating 
between white and grey matter, allowed for a more precise understanding of the 
disease's impact on different brain regions. In addition, ferroptosis inhibition 
prevented Aβ pathology, decreased lipid peroxidation and restored iron storage 
in human AD iPSCs-derived brain cortical organoids at day 50 of differentiation. 
Differential gene expression analysis of RNAseq of AD organoids compared to 
isogenic controls indicated activation of the ferroptotic pathway. This was also 
supported by results from untargeted proteomic analysis revealing significant 
changes between AD and isogenic brain organoids. Determining the causality 
between the development of Aβ plaques and the deregulation of molecular pathways 
involved in ferroptosis is crucial for developing potential therapeutic 
interventions.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41419-024-07152-0
PMCID: PMC11519607
PMID: 39468028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


63. Nurse Pract. 2024 Nov 1;49(11):16-21. doi: 10.1097/01.NPR.0000000000000248.
Epub  2024 Oct 29.

The next chapter in Alzheimer's disease treatment: Antiamyloid monoclonal 
antibodies.

Theroux JD, Marino AB, Drake ES.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NPR.0000000000000248
PMID: 39467836


64. Br J Pharmacol. 2025 Feb;182(4):1005-1024. doi: 10.1111/bph.17373. Epub 2024
Oct  28.

Dihydro-resveratrol ameliorates NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated neuroinflammation 
via Bnip3-dependent mitophagy in Alzheimer's disease.

Tao G(1)(2)(3)(4), Wang X(5), Wang J(2)(3)(6), Ye Y(2)(3)(7), Zhang M(1)(2)(3), 
Lang Y(1)(2)(3), Ding S(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Animal Center, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Diagnosis and Treatment of Severe Hepato-Pancreatic 
Diseases of Zhejiang Province, the First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, China.
(3)Central Laboratory, the First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang, China.
(6)Huangshi Love & Health Hospital, Hubei Polytechnic University, Huangshi, 
China.
(7)School of Information and Engineering, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang, China.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Dihydro-resveratrol (DHR), a polyphenol derivative, that 
has been demonstrated to suppress inflammation-mediated injury. However, it is 
still unknown whether it has anti-neuroinflammatory and neuroprotective effects, 
and a therapeutic action in Alzheimer's disease (AD).
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: The anti-inflammatory and anti-Alzheimer's disease 
actions of dihydro-resveratrol were investigated using lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 
and AD mice models, and primary microglial cells. The changes in behaviour in 
mice were detected by the Morris water maze test and open-field test. Flow 
cytometry assay, western blotting, immunofluorescence assays and 
co-immunoprecipitation were used to investigate the changes in the NLRP3 
inflammasome activation and mitophagy.
KEY RESULTS: In this study, in vivo observations indicated that the 
administration of dihydro-resveratrol (DHR) dramatically restored spatial 
learning, memory ability, autophagy and mitophagy, attenuated NLRP3 inflammasome 
activation, neuroinflammation and amyloid precursor protein pathology in LPS 
mice and AD mice. In addition, the inhibition of autophagy and mitophagy, or the 
activation of NLRP3 in vivo greatly abolished DHR-generated therapeutic efficacy 
on neuroinflammation, amyloid precursor protein pathology and cognitive loss. 
Further examination indicated that the application of DHR after the LPS and ATP 
exposure significantly inhibited the NLRP3 inflammasome activation, 
neuroinflammation and enhanced autophagic and mitophagic activation in 
microglia. Additionally, in vitro results show that DHR protects microglial 
cells against LPS and ATP-induced cytotoxicity by inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome 
through activating Bnip3-dependent mitophagy and ULK phosphorylation.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: In summary, these findings suggest that 
dihydro-resveratrol (DHR) possesses potent anti-neuroinflammatory property and 
can act as a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of AD.

© 2024 British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.17373
PMID: 39467709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2024 Dec 28;34(12):2474-2483. doi: 
10.4014/jmb.2409.09020. Epub 2024 Oct 29.

Melissa officinalis Regulates Lipopolysaccharide-Induced BV2 Microglial 
Activation via MAPK and Nrf2 Signaling.

Choi JW(1), Choi SY(1), Yoo G(1), Park HY(1)(2), Choi IW(1), Hur J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Korea Food Research Institute, Wanju-Gun, Jeollabuk-do 55365, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Division of Food Biotechnology, University of Science and Technology, Daejeon 
34113, Republic of Korea.

Neuroinflammation and microglial activation play critical roles in 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. 
Modulating microglial activation may help prevent the progression of these 
disorders. This study aimed to investigate the effects and mechanisms of Melissa 
officinalis ethanol extract on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced microglial 
activation in BV2 cells. Cell viability and nitric oxide (NO) production were 
assessed using MTT assay and Griess reagent, while inflammatory cytokine levels 
were measured by qPCR. Key inflammatory pathways, including MAPK, TLR4, and 
antioxidant biomarkers, were analyzed through western blot and 
immunofluorescence. Rosmarinic acid content in M. officinalis was determined 
using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The results demonstrated 
that M. officinalis ethanol extract significantly inhibited LPS-induced NO 
production and reduced inflammatory cytokine expression. Additionally, it 
downregulated inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), 
TLR4, NF-κB, and MAPK signaling pathways (p38, JNK, ERK), while increasing the 
expression of antioxidant markers, including Nrf2, HO-1, catalase, and SOD2. In 
conclusion, M. officinalis ethanol extract exerts neuroprotective effects by 
modulating inflammation and enhancing antioxidant defenses, suggesting its 
potential in the prevention and treatment of inflammation-related 
neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.2409.09020
PMCID: PMC11729339
PMID: 39467696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors have no 
financial conflicts of interest to declare.


66. Methylphenidate.

Verghese C(1), Patel P, Abdijadid S(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2025 
Jan–.
2024 Oct 29.

Author information:
(1)Ross University/Kern Medical
(2)UCLA

Methylphenidate is FDA-approved for the treatment of ADHD in adults and children 
6 years and older. Additionally, methylphenidate serves as a second-line therapy 
for narcolepsy in adults. Off-label uses include cancer-related fatigue, 
refractory depression in older adults, apathy in patients with Alzheimer 
disease, and cognitive enhancement (eg, memory improvement); the efficacy of 
methylphenidate for these conditions is moderate at best.

Copyright © 2025, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 29494058

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Corinne Verghese declares no 
relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Preeti 
Patel declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Sara Abdijadid declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies.


67. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2024 Nov;38(11):e70027. doi: 10.1002/jbt.70027.

Assessing the therapeutic potential of KK14 peptide derived from Cyprinus Carpio 
in reducing intercellular ROS levels in oxidative Stress-Induced In vivo 
zebrafish larvae model: An integrated bioinformatics, antioxidant, and 
neuroprotective analysis.

Vijayanand M(1), Guru A(2), Shaik MR(3), Hussain SA(4), Issac PK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnology and Integrative Physiology, Institute of 
Biotechnology, Saveetha School of Engineering, Saveetha Institute of Medical and 
Technical Sciences, Thandalam, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Cariology, Saveetha Dental College and Hospitals, SIMATS, 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Department of Chemistry, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Zoology, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.

H2O2 is a significant reactive oxygen species (ROS) that hinders redox-mediated 
processes and contributes to oxidative stress and neurodegenerative disorders. 
Oxidative stress causes impairment of cell macromolecules, which results in cell 
dysfunction and neurodegeneration. Alzheimer's disease and other 
neurodegenerative diseases are serious conditions linked to oxidative stress. 
Antioxidant treatment approaches are a novel and successful strategy for 
decreasing neurodegeneration and reducing oxidative stress. This study explored 
the antioxidant and neuroprotective characteristics of KK14 peptide synthesized 
from LEAP 2B (liver-expressed antimicrobial peptide-2B) derived from Cyprinus 
carpio L. Molecular docking studies were used to assess the antioxidant 
properties of KK14. The peptide at concentrations 5-45 μM was examined by using 
in vitro and in vivo assessment. Analysis was done on the developmental and 
neuroprotective potential of KK14 peptide treatment in H2O2-exposed zebrafish 
larvae which showed Nonlethal deformities. KK14 improves antioxidant enzyme 
activity like catalase and superoxide dismutase. Furthermore, it reduces 
neuronal damage by lowering lipid peroxidation and nitric oxide generation while 
increasing acetylcholinesterase activity. It improved the changes in swimming 
behavior and the cognitive damage produced by exposure to H2O2. To further 
substantiate the neuroprotective potential of KK14, intracellular ROS levels in 
zebrafish larvae were assessed. This led to a reduction in ROS levels and 
diminished lipid peroxidation. The KK14 has upregulated the antioxidant genes 
against oxidative stress. Overall, this study proved the strong antioxidant 
activity of KK14, suggesting its potential as a strong therapeutic option for 
neurological disorders caused by oxidative stress.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.70027
PMID: 39467211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Am J Manag Care. 2024 Oct 1;30(10):e305-e311. doi: 10.37765/ajmc.2024.89623.

Hospital stays and probable dementia as predictors of relocation to long-term 
care facilities.

Amini R(1), Sidhu A.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan-Flint, 303 E Kearsley St, Flint, MI 48502. Email: 
dramini@umich.edu.

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to investigate the relocation of older adults in the 
US from community living to long-term care facilities (LTCFs). Specifically, it 
examines the predictive roles of possible and probable dementia and hospital 
stays in this complex health care transition.
STUDY DESIGN: Utilizing data from the National Health and Aging Trends Study, a 
longitudinal cohort study (2011-2019), we employed a panel data approach, which 
consists of multiple observations over time for the same participants, allowing 
us to account for both cross-sectional variations (differences between 
participants) and time-series variations (changes in the same participant over 
time).
METHODS: The analysis involved longitudinal logistic regression models. Using 
the AD8 dementia screening interview, clock drawing test, immediate and delayed 
word recall test, orientation, and history of dementia diagnosis, we placed 
participants into categories of having no dementia, possible dementia, and 
probable dementia. A survey asked about hospital stays in the past year. 
Relocation to LTCFs was examined based on the changes to the living location.
RESULTS: The proportion of individuals transitioning to LTCFs tripled between 
2011 and 2019, emphasizing the need to understand and manage this health care 
transition. Hospital stays significantly increased the probability of moving to 
LTCFs, especially nursing homes. Probable dementia demonstrated a 3-fold 
increase, aligning with the rising prevalence of Alzheimer disease. Difficulty 
walking and climbing stairs significantly increased relocation probabilities.
CONCLUSIONS: The study findings emphasize complexity in late-life relocations 
influenced by dementia and hospital stays. Screening for cognitive function 
among community-dwelling older adults, particularly those with a history of 
hospital stays and mobility difficulties, can inform interventions and policies. 
Implications extend to health care policy, geriatric care, and the imperative 
for targeted interventions considering demographic variations. Future research 
should explore additional variables and address limitations to refine our 
understanding of the relocation process.

DOI: 10.37765/ajmc.2024.89623
PMID: 39467175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. PLoS One. 2024 Oct 28;19(10):e0312670. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0312670. 
eCollection 2024.

Effects of Artemisia asiatica ex on Akkermansia muciniphila dominance for 
modulation of Alzheimer's disease in mice.

Lee M(1), Ahn KS(2), Kim M(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Biomedical Research Institute, Seoul National 
University Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Functional Genome Institute, PDXen. Biosystem Co., Gyeongi-do, South Korea.
(3)Neuroscience Dementia Research Institute, Seoul National University College 
of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Protein Metabolism Medical Research Center, College of Medicine, Seoul 
National University Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.

The gut microbiome influences neurological disorders through bidirectional 
communication between the gut and the brain, i.e., the gut-brain axis. Artemisia 
asiatica ex, an extract of Artemisia asiatica Nakai (Stillen®, DA-9601) has been 
reported to improve depression by increasing brain-derived neurotropic factor. 
Therefore, we hypothesized that DA-9601 can be a potential therapeutic candidate 
for Alzheimer's disease (AD) acting through the gut-brain axis. Four groups of 
Tg2576 mice were used as the animal model for AD: wild type mice (n = 6), AD 
mice (n = 6), and DA-9601-administered AD mice given dosages of 30mg/kg/day 
(DA_30mg; n = 6) or 100mg/kg/day (DA_100mg; n = 6). Microglial activation, 
blood‒brain barrier integrity, amyloid beta accumulation, cognitive behavior, 
and changes in the gut microbiome were analyzed. DA-9601 improved the cognitive 
behavior of mice (DA_30mg **p<0.01; DA_100mg **p<0.01) and reduced amyloid beta 
accumulation (DA_30mg ***p<0.001; DA_100mg **p<0.01). Increased Iba-1 and 
upregulation of claudin-5 (DA_30mg *p<0.05) and occludin (DA_30mg **p<0.01; 
DA_100mg ***p<0.001) indicated altered microglial activation and improved 
blood‒brain barrier integrity. Akkermansia muciniphila was dramatically 
increased by DA-9601 administration (DA_30mg 47%; DA_100mg 61%). DA-9601 
improved AD pathology with Akkermansia muciniphila dominance in the gut 
microbiome in a mouse model of AD, inferring that DA-9601 can affect AD through 
the gut-brain axis.

Copyright: © 2024 Lee et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0312670
PMCID: PMC11516174
PMID: 39466764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


70. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Apr;62(4):4545-4561. doi: 10.1007/s12035-024-04547-0.
Epub  2024 Oct 28.

Huang-Pu-Tong-Qiao Formula Alleviates Hippocampal Neuron Damage by Inhibiting 
NLRP3 Inflammasome-mediated Pyroptosis in Alzheimer's Disease.

Shao N(#)(1), Ding Z(#)(1), Liu F(#)(1), Zhang X(1), Wang X(1), Hu 
S(1)(2)(3)(4), Ye S(1)(2)(3)(4), Wang T(1)(2)(3)(4), Si W(5)(6)(7)(8), Cai 
B(9)(10)(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)College of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Anhui University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China.
(2)Institute of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Anhui Academy of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Xin'an Medicine, Anhui University of Chinese Medicine, 
Ministry of Education, Hefei, 230012, China.
(4)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Chinese Medicinal Formula, Hefei, 230012, 
China.
(5)College of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Anhui University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China. siwenwen2008@163.com.
(6)Institute of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Anhui Academy of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China. siwenwen2008@163.com.
(7)Key Laboratory of Xin'an Medicine, Anhui University of Chinese Medicine, 
Ministry of Education, Hefei, 230012, China. siwenwen2008@163.com.
(8)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Chinese Medicinal Formula, Hefei, 230012, 
China. siwenwen2008@163.com.
(9)College of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Anhui University of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China. caibiao@ahtcm.edu.cn.
(10)Institute of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Anhui Academy of 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, 230012, China. caibiao@ahtcm.edu.cn.
(11)Key Laboratory of Xin'an Medicine, Anhui University of Chinese Medicine, 
Ministry of Education, Hefei, 230012, China. caibiao@ahtcm.edu.cn.
(12)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Chinese Medicinal Formula, Hefei, 230012, 
China. caibiao@ahtcm.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Huang-Pu-Tong-Qiao (HPTQ), a Traditional Chinese Medicine formula, has achieved 
remarkable efficacy in clinically treating Alzheimer's disease (AD). Pyroptosis 
refers to the inflammatory necrosis of cells, which contributes to AD 
pathological progression. However, it is unclear whether the therapeutic effect 
of HPTQ on AD is related to reducing pyroptosis. In this study, the network 
pharmacology analysis was used to predict the molecular mechanism of HPTQ in 
treating AD and validated our hypothesis through mice and cell experiments. 
APP/PS1 transgenic mice and Aβ25-35-injured HT22 cells were used as AD models in 
vivo and in vitro. The pharmacological effects and mechanisms of HPTQ on AD were 
evaluated by Morris water maze, Y-maze, transmission electron microscope, 
immunofluorescence, Hoechst/PI staining, western blot, and ELISA. Network 
pharmacology reveals the correlation between the therapeutic effect of HPTQ on 
AD and the NOD-like receptor signaling pathway. In APP/PS1 mice, HPTQ reduced 
the escape latency and maintained cell membrane integrity. In HT22 cells, 15% 
HPTQ-medicated serum and 10 µM MCC950 increased cell viability and decreased PI 
positive rate compared with the Model group. In addition, HPTQ treatment in AD 
animal and cell models reduced the protein expressions of NLRP3, ASC, cleaved 
caspase-1, GSDMD, GSDMD-N, IL-1β, and IL-18. The experimental results of MCC950 
specifically inhibiting the NLRP3 expression suggested that HPTQ might reduce 
neuronal pyroptosis by reducing NLRP3 inflammasome. Network pharmacology and 
experimental validation suggested that HPTQ alleviated NLRP3 
inflammasome-mediated neuronal pyroptosis in AD, which could provide valuable 
candidate drugs for AD clinical treatment.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-024-04547-0
PMID: 39466576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent for Publication: Not 
applicable. Competing Interests: The authors declare no competing interests. 
Ethics Approval: All animal experiments were approved by the Animal Experimental 
Ethics Committee of Anhui University of Chinese Medicine (ethical certification 
No. AHUCM-mouse-2022054 and No. AHUCM-rats-2022052). Consent to Participate: Not 
applicable.


71. Dysphagia. 2025 Jun;40(3):668-679. doi: 10.1007/s00455-024-10767-2. Epub 2024
 Oct 28.

Use of EAT-10 in Individuals with Alzheimer's Disease: Who Should be the Source 
of Information?

Parlak MM(1), İnceoğlu P(2), Tokgöz SA(3), Munis ÖB(4), Saylam G(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Speech and Language Therapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ankara 
Yıldırım Beyazıt University, Ankara, Turkey. mmervekolsuz@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology, Department of Speech and Language Therapy, 
Etlik City Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology, Etlik City Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.
(4)Department of Neurology, Etlik City Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.
(5)Department of Otolaryngology, Lokman Hekim University, Ankara, Turkey.

This study aimed to examine the compatibility between individuals with 
Alzheimer's disease (IwAD) and Eating Assessment Tool (EAT-10) results obtained 
from their caregivers and to compare EAT-10 results obtained from IwAD and 
caregivers with fiberoptic endoscopic swallow evaluation (FEES) results. EAT-10 
questions were read aloud to the IwAD; simultaneously, the caregiver was asked 
to complete the EAT-10 by thinking of the IwAD in a different room. Aspiration, 
penetration, and residual status were first assessed as "present" or "absent" 
using FEES, then the Penetration Aspiration Scale (PAS) was used. EAT-10 items 
were analyzed with agreement between IwAD and caregiver.The sensitivity and 
specificity of IwAD and caregiver EAT-10 results for aspiration, penetration, 
and residue were assessed. EAT-10 cut-off scores were determined for IwAD 
according to different sources of information.Agreement of the EAT-10 total 
measurements of IwAD and caregiver was determined to be poor. There was no 
statistically significant correlation between PAS scores and EAT-10 total IwAD 
(p = 0.072) and caregiver (p = 0.195) scores. In the aspiration, penetration, 
and residue measurements of the participants, the area under the ROC curve was 
not statistically significant (p > 0.05) according to both IwAD and caregiver 
responses. It was observed that IwAD's statement for aspiration, penetration, 
and residue in mild stage AD; IwAD for aspiration, caregiver for penetration, 
both for residue in moderate stage; caregivers for advanced stage gave more 
accurate results in differentiating individuals with aspiration, penetration, 
and residue.In conclusion, in this study, according to the information obtained 
from IwAD or caregivers, it was determined that the agreement between EAT-10 and 
FEES results was low, especially in recognizing IwAD with aspiration. Therefore, 
the use of the EAT-10 in IwAD does not provide adequate diagnosis; there is a 
need to develop other swallowing assessment tools that also provide information 
about the effectiveness and safety of swallowing specific to IwAD.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00455-024-10767-2
PMID: 39466385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: All procedures 
performed in studies involving human participants were in accordance with the 
ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee and 
with the 1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments or comparable 
ethical standards. Before the recruitment, a written informed consent was 
obtained from each participant Ethical approval was granted by the Ethics 
Committee of Health Sciences University Dışkapı Training and Research Hospital 
with Decision Number 139/28. Conflict of Interest: The authors have no conflict 
of interest to declare.


72. Interdiscip Sci. 2025 Mar;17(1):140-152. doi: 10.1007/s12539-024-00664-5.
Epub  2024 Oct 28.

ABTrans: A Transformer-based Model for Predicting Interaction between Anti-Aβ 
Antibodies and Peptides.

Su Y(1), Zeng X(1), Zhang L(2), Bian Y(1), Wang Y(1), Ma B(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Engineering Research Center of Cell & Therapeutic Antibody (MOE), School of 
Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China.
(2)School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Ottawa, 
75 Laurier Ave, Ottawa, K1N 6N5, Canada.
(3)Engineering Research Center of Cell & Therapeutic Antibody (MOE), School of 
Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China. 
mabuyong@sjtu.edu.cn.
(4)Shanghai Digiwiser Biological, Inc, Shanghai, 200240, China. 
mabuyong@sjtu.edu.cn.

Antibodies against Aβ peptide have been recently approved to treat Alzheimer's 
disease, underscoring the importance of understanding their interactions for 
developing more potent treatments. Here we investigated the interaction between 
anti-Aβ antibodies and various peptides using a deep learning model. Our model, 
ABTrans, was trained on dodecapeptide sequences from phage display experiments 
and known anti-Aβ antibody sequences sourced from public sources. It classified 
the binding ability between anti-Aβ antibodies and dodecapeptides into four 
levels: not binding, weak binding, medium binding, and strong binding, achieving 
an accuracy of 0.83. Using ABTrans, we examined the cross-reaction of anti-Aβ 
antibodies with other human amyloidogenic proteins, revealing that Aducanumab 
and Donanemab exhibited the least cross-reactivity. Additionally, we 
systematically screened interactions between eleven selected anti-Aβ antibodies 
and all human proteins to identify potential off-target candidates.

© 2024. International Association of Scientists in the Interdisciplinary Areas.

DOI: 10.1007/s12539-024-00664-5
PMID: 39466358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest. Ethical approval: This article does not contain any studies with human 
participants performed by any of authors.


73. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Feb;33(2):669-678. doi:
10.1007/s10787-024-01585-x.  Epub 2024 Oct 27.

Exploring the role of HIF-1α on pathogenesis in Alzheimer's disease and 
potential therapeutic approaches.

Porel P(1), Bala K(2), Aran KR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, 142001, Punjab, 
India.
(2)Department of Pharmacy Practice, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, 142001, 
Punjab, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, 142001, Punjab, 
India. bishalarann@gmail.com.

Hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) is a crucial transcription factor that 
regulates cellular responses to low oxygen levels (hypoxia). In Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), emerging evidence suggests a significant involvement of HIF-1α in 
disease pathogenesis. AD is characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-beta 
(Aβ) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), leading to neuronal dysfunction 
and cognitive decline. HIF-1α is implicated in AD through its multifaceted roles 
in various cellular processes. Firstly, in response to hypoxia, HIF-1α promotes 
the expression of genes involved in angiogenesis, which is crucial for 
maintaining cerebral blood flow and oxygen delivery to the brain. However, in 
the context of AD, dysregulated HIF-1α activation may exacerbate cerebral 
hypoperfusion, contributing to neuronal damage. Moreover, HIF-1α is implicated 
in the regulation of Aβ metabolism. It can influence the production and 
clearance of Aβ peptides, potentially modulating their accumulation and toxicity 
in the brain. Additionally, HIF-1α activation has been linked to 
neuroinflammation, a key feature of AD pathology. It can promote the expression 
of pro-inflammatory cytokines and exacerbate neuronal damage. Furthermore, 
HIF-1α may play a role in synaptic plasticity and neuronal survival, which are 
impaired in AD. Dysregulated HIF-1α signaling could disrupt these processes, 
contributing to cognitive decline and neurodegeneration. Overall, the 
involvement of HIF-1α in various aspects of AD pathophysiology highlights its 
potential as a therapeutic target. Modulating HIF-1α activity could offer novel 
strategies for mitigating neurodegeneration and preserving cognitive function in 
AD patients. However, further research is needed to elucidate the precise 
mechanisms underlying HIF-1α dysregulation in AD and to develop targeted 
interventions.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-024-01585-x
PMID: 39465478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: No conflicts 
of interest to declare. Ethical approval and consent to participate: Not 
applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable.


74. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2024 Oct 28;16(1):239. doi: 10.1186/s13195-024-01609-2.

Molecular landscape of the overlap between Alzheimer's disease and somatic 
insulin-related diseases.

Ruisch IH(1), Widomska J(1), De Witte W(1), Mota NR(2)(3), Fanelli G(2)(3)(4), 
Van Gils V(5), Jansen WJ(5), Vos SJB(5), Fóthi A(6), Barta C(6), Berkel S(7), 
Alam KA(8), Martinez A(8)(9), Haavik J(8), O'Leary A(10), Slattery D(11), 
Sullivan M(12), Glennon J(12), Buitelaar JK(1)(3), Bralten J(2)(3), Franke 
B(1)(2)(3), Poelmans G(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(5)Department of Psychiatry & Neuropsychology, Alzheimer Center Limburg, School 
for Mental Health and Neuroscience, Maastricht University, Maastricht, 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biology, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.
(7)Institute of Human Genetics, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(8)Department of Biomedicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(9)K.G. Jebsen Center for Translational Research in Parkinson's Disease, 
University of Bergen, Neuro-SysMed Center, Department of Neurology, Haukeland 
University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, University Hospital, Frankfurt, Germany.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and Psychotherapy, 
Goethe-Universität, Frankfurt, Germany.
(12)Conway Institute of Biomedical and Biomolecular Research, School of 
Medicine, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(13)Department of Cognitive Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. geert.poelmans@radboudumc.nl.
(14)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands. geert.poelmans@radboudumc.nl.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial disease with both genetic and 
environmental factors contributing to its etiology. Previous evidence has 
implicated disturbed insulin signaling as a key mechanism that plays a role in 
both neurodegenerative diseases such as AD and comorbid somatic diseases such as 
diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM2). In this study, we analysed available genome-wide 
association studies (GWASs) of AD and somatic insulin-related diseases and 
conditions (SID), i.e., DM2, metabolic syndrome and obesity, to identify genes 
associated with both AD and SID that could increase our insights into their 
molecular underpinnings. We then performed functional enrichment analyses of 
these genes. Subsequently, using (additional) GWAS data, we conducted shared 
genetic etiology analyses between AD and SID, on the one hand, and blood and 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) metabolite levels on the other hand. Further, 
integrating all these analysis results with elaborate literature searches, we 
built a molecular landscape of the overlap between AD and SID. From the 
landscape, multiple functional themes emerged, including insulin signaling, 
estrogen signaling, synaptic transmission, lipid metabolism and tau signaling. 
We also found shared genetic etiologies between AD/SID and the blood/CSF levels 
of multiple metabolites, pointing towards "energy metabolism" as a key metabolic 
pathway that is affected in both AD and SID. Lastly, the landscape provided 
leads for putative novel drug targets for AD (including MARK4, TMEM219, FKBP5, 
NDUFS3 and IL34) that could be further developed into new AD treatments.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-024-01609-2
PMCID: PMC11514822
PMID: 39465382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: G.P. is director and I.H.R., J.W. and W.D.W. are 
employees of Drug Target ID, Ltd., but their activities at this company do not 
constitute competing interests with regard to this paper. J.K.B. has been in the 
past 3 years a consultant to / member of advisory board of / and/or speaker for 
Takeda, Roche, Medice, Angelini, Neuraxpharm, and Servier, all unrelated to this 
manuscript. He is not an employee of any of these companies, and not a stock 
shareholder of any of these companies. He has no other financial or material 
support, including expert testimony, patents, royalties. B.F. has received 
educational speaking fees from Medice GmbH. N.R.M., G.F., V.V.G., W.J.J., 
S.J.B.V., A.F., C.B., S.B., K.A.A., A.M., J.H., A.O.L., D.S., M.S., J.G. and 
J.B. do not report any conflicts of interest. In addition, the funders had no 
role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation 
of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to publish the 
results.


75. Int J Music Health Wellbeing. 2024 Fall;2024(Dorris):1-25.

Feasibility of adolescent musicians in delivering Project Unmute, a virtual, 
intergenerational active music-based intervention for older adults with 
Alzheimer's disease and dementia.

Dorris JL(1), Terhorst L(1), Raina K(1), Neely S(2), Hagstedt M(2), Schaumburg 
S(2), Rodakowski J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
USA.
(2)School of Music, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, USA.

BACKGROUND: Cases of dementia are increasing rapidly; music-based interventions 
have shown promise to support some of the negative outcomes.
METHODS: This research assesses the potential of adolescent musicians to deliver 
Project Unmute, a virtual, intergenerational music-based intervention for older 
adults with Alzheimer's disease and dementia. To assess the feasibility of the 
intervention, the research team calculated attendance of intervention sessions, 
assessed intervention preparation, and measured adherence during intervention 
delivery.
RESULTS: Eight adolescent musicians participated, ages 14-18. They attended 
80/80 intervention sessions, were prepared for 32/32 mentorship sessions, and 
delivered 24/24 intervention ingredients.
CONCLUSION: This research suggests that adolescent musicians have the potential 
to administer a well-defined music-based intervention with high adherence. There 
is potential for future research to explore the potential for the scalable 
population of adolescent musicians as successful facilitators of music-based 
interventions for older adults with Alzheimer's disease and dementia.

PMCID: PMC11503468
PMID: 39464872

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare.


76. Chem Sci. 2024 Oct 24;15(45):18855-64. doi: 10.1039/d4sc04313h. Online ahead
of  print.

A cocktail of Cu(2+)- and Zn(2+)-peptoid-based chelators can stop ROS formation 
for Alzheimer's disease therapy.

Behar AE(1), Maayan G(1).

Author information:
(1)Schulich Faculty of Chemistry, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, 
Technion City 3200008 Haifa Israel gm92@technion.ac.il.

The formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the brain is a major cause of 
neuropathologic degradation associated with Alzheimer's Disease (AD). It has 
been suggested that the copper (Cu)-amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide complex can lead to 
ROS formation in the brain. An external chelator for Cu that can extract Cu from 
the CuAβ complex should inhibit the formation of ROS, making Cu chelation an 
excellent therapeutic approach for AD. Such a chelator should possess high 
selectivity for Cu over zinc (Zn), which is also present within the synaptic 
cleft. However, such selectivity is generally hard to achieve in one molecule 
due to the similarities in the binding preferences of these two metal ions. As 
an alternative to monotherapy (where Cu extraction is performed using a single 
chelator), herein we describe a variation of combination therapy - a novel 
cocktail approach, which is based on the co-administration of two structurally 
different peptidomimetic chelators, aiming to target both Cu2+ and Zn2+ ions 
simultaneously but independently from each other. Based on rigorous 
spectroscopic experiments, we demonstrate that our peptidomimetic cocktail 
allows, for the first time, the complete and immediate inhibition of ROS 
production by the CuAβ complex in the presence of Zn2+. In addition, we further 
demonstrate the high stability of the cocktail under simulated physiological 
conditions and its resistance to proteolytic degradation by trypsin and report 
the water/n-octanol partition coefficient, initially assessing the blood-brain 
barrier (BBB) permeability potential of the chelators.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d4sc04313h
PMCID: PMC11503657
PMID: 39464602

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts to declare.


77. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 18:2024.10.15.618508. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.15.618508.

Lifespan of male and female APP/PS1 and APP(NL-F/NL-F) mouse models of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Roberts H(1), Fang Y(1), Quinn K(1), Hill T(1), Peck MR(1), Bartke A(2)(3), 
Hascup KN(1)(3)(4), Hascup ER(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Institute, Dale and Deborah Smith Center for Alzheimer's 
Research and Treatment, Dept of Neurology; Southern Illinois University School 
of Medicine, Springfield, IL, USA.
(2)Dept of Internal Medicine; Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield, IL, USA.
(3)Dept of Medical Microbiology, Immunology and Cell Biology; Southern Illinois 
University School of Medicine, Springfield, IL, USA.
(4)Dept of Pharmacology; Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield, IL, USA.

Update in
    J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):56-61. doi: 10.1177/13872877251325878.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) disproportionately affects women, yet most preclinical 
research studies are male-centric. We performed lifespan analyses of male and 
female AD mouse models (APP/PS1 and APPNL-F/NL-F) and their shared genetic 
background control (C57BL/6). Survival curves support significant sex 
differences between within genotypes. Minimal longevity revealed increased age 
in male APP/PS1, and decreased age in APPNL-F/NL-F mice. Maximal longevity 
revealed an increased average age in males. Furthermore, median lifespan 
differed between sex and genotype. This study supports sexual dimorphic survival 
in two mouse models of AD, emphasizing the need to examine mechanisms and 
treatments in both sexes.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.15.618508
PMCID: PMC11507819
PMID: 39464050

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST/ DISCLOSURE STATEMENT The 
authors have no conflict of interest to report.


78. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 20:2024.10.12.617973. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.12.617973.

Essential tremor with tau pathology features seeds indistinguishable in 
conformation from Alzheimer's disease and primary age-related tauopathy.

Saez-Calveras N(1)(2), Vaquer-Alicea J(1), White CL 3rd(1)(3), Tak Y(1), 
Cosentino S(4), Faust PL(5), Louis ED(2), Diamond MI(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, Peter O'Donnell Jr. 
Brain Institute, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX.
(2)Department of Neurology, Peter O'Donnell Jr. Brain Institute, University of 
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX.
(3)Department of Pathology, Peter O'Donnell Jr. Brain Institute, University of 
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX.
(4)Department of Neurology, Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease 
and the Aging Brain, and Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Columbia University, New 
York, NY.
(5)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University, New York, NY.

Update in
    Acta Neuropathol. 2025 Jan 8;149(1):6. doi: 10.1007/s00401-024-02843-6.

Neurodegenerative tauopathies are characterized by the deposition of distinct 
fibrillar tau assemblies whose rigid core structures correlate with defined 
neuropathological phenotypes. Essential tremor (ET) is a progressive 
neurological disease that, in some cases, is associated with cognitive 
impairment and tau accumulation. Consequently, we explored the tau assembly 
conformation in ET patients with tau pathology using cytometry-based tau 
biosensor assays. These assays quantify tau prion seeding activity present in 
brain homogenates based on conversion of intracellular tau-fluorescent protein 
fusions from a soluble to an aggregated state. Prions exhibit seeding barriers, 
whereby a specific assembly structure cannot serve as a template for a native 
monomer if the amino acids are not compatible. We recently exploited the tau 
prion species barrier to define tauopathies by systematically substituting 
alanine (Ala) in the tau monomer and measuring its incorporation into seeded 
aggregates within biosensor cells. The Ala scan precisely classified the 
conformation of tau seeds from diverse tauopathies. We next studied 18 ET 
patient brains with tau pathology. Only one case had concurrent high amyloid-β 
plaque pathology consistent with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We detected robust 
tau seeding activity in 9 (50%) of the patients. This predominantly localized to 
the temporal pole and temporal cortex. We examined 8 ET cases with the Ala scan 
and determined that the amino acid requirements for tau monomer incorporation 
into aggregates seeded from these ET brain homogenates were identical to those 
of AD and primary age-related tauopathy (PART), and completely distinct from 
other tauopathies such as corticobasal degeneration, chronic traumatic 
encephalopathy, and progressive supranuclear palsy. Based on these studies, tau 
assembly cores in a pathologically confined subset of ET cases with high tau 
pathology are identical to AD and PART. This could facilitate more precise 
diagnosis and therapy for ET patients with cognitive impairment.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.12.617973
PMCID: PMC11507725
PMID: 39464029

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors declare they 
have no competing interests.


79. Front Neurol. 2024 Oct 3;15:1434210. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1434210. 
eCollection 2024.

FORTCARE-MCI study protocol: evaluation of Fortasyn Connect in the management of 
mild cognitive impairment in primary care.

Arrieta E(1), Baz P(2), García-Ribas G(3).

Author information:
(1)Segovia Rural Health Center, Neurology Working Group of SERMERGEN, Segovia, 
Spain.
(2)North Periurban Health Center of Salamanca, Neurology Working Group of 
SERMERGEN, Salamanca, Spain.
(3)Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Neuropsychiatric symptoms are prevalent in patients with mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) and are predictive of the conversion to dementia. 
Fortasyn Connect, a medical food, has shown efficacy in managing cognitive and 
behavioral symptoms associated with MCI. Early diagnosis and intervention in 
primary care are essential for managing MCI. However, real-world prospective 
studies assessing Fortasyn Connect in MCI are still limited.
METHODS: This observational, multicenter, prospective study will enroll 150 
patients recently diagnosed with MCI by primary care physicians across several 
regions in Spain. Participants will be followed-up over a 12-month period, with 
assessments at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months, as per clinical practice. The 
study aims to evaluate the impact of Fortasyn Connect on neuropsychiatric 
symptoms, cognition, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) using validated 
neuropsychological tests and machine learning (ML) techniques. The primary 
outcome measure will be changes in neuropsychiatric symptoms using the 
Neuropsychiatric Inventory Questionnaire (NPI-Q) at 6 months. Secondary outcome 
measures include further changes in the NPI-Q at 12 months, and changes in 
cognition (Fototest, and clock-drawing test) and HRQoL (EQ-5D-5L) at 6 and 
12 months. Exploratory outcomes will assess speech using an artificial 
intelligence (AI)-enhanced ML tool, with a correlation analysis of these 
findings with traditional neuropsychological test results.
CONCLUSION: This study will provide evidence of the effectiveness of Fortasyn 
Connect in a real-world setting, exploring its potential to stabilize or improve 
neuropsychiatric symptoms, cognition, and HRQoL in MCI patients. Results will 
also contribute to the understanding of AI and ML in identifying early 
biomarkers of cognitive decline, supporting the timely management of MCI.

Copyright © 2024 Arrieta, Baz and García-Ribas.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1434210
PMCID: PMC11503483
PMID: 39463791

Conflict of interest statement: Enrique Arrieta has participated in activities 
organized by CEAFA and the Fundación Alzheimer España, funded by Neuraxpharm, 
Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisk, has served on the scientific committee of studies 
funded by Ferrer and developed by the SEMERGEN, has been involved in educational 
activities organized by SEMERGEN, which were funded by Novo Nordisk, is a member 
of the scientific committee for the FORTCARE-MCI study, funded by Nutricia and 
supported by the SEMERGEN Research Agency, and is part of the committee for the 
MapEA study, funded by Lilly. The remaining authors declare that the research 
was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that 
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


80. Arch Razi Inst. 2024 Apr 30;79(2):248-263. doi: 10.32592/ARI.2024.79.2.248. 
eCollection 2024 Apr.

A Systematic Review of the Role of Gummosin in Improving Memory in the 
Scopolamine Impaired Memory Model.

Asadi Rizi A(1), Amjad L(1), Shahrani M(2), Amini Khoei H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Falavarjan Branch, Islamic Azad University, Isfahan, 
Iran.
(2)Medical Plants Research Center, Basic Health Sciences Institute, Shahrekord 
University of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.

In this study, the role of gummosin in improving memory in the scopolamine 
memory impairment model was systematically examined. Memory and learning are the 
most developed and complex functions of the nervous system. Learning is the 
acquisition of new information that occurs as a change in behavior, and memory 
is the ability to store and retrieve learned information. In other words, memory 
is a combination of various processes of information acquisition, consolidation, 
storage and retrieval. The processes of memory consolidation and storage are the 
result of a series of time-dependent neurobiological events that occur after the 
initial formation of memory. In addition, this fluctuation of processes related 
to memory storage can fully occur shortly after the initial learning experience. 
Memory is a direct result of learning ,as it stores and retrieves learned 
experiences and information. The results of our study show that scopolamine 
leads to impaired memory, learning and synaptic plasticity, which is associated 
with a change in the expression of various genes and a reduction in the number 
of hippocampal neurons. The disorders that occurred in the rats of the 
scopolamine group confirm the model used in this study to induce memory and 
learning deficits, which is consistent with previous studies confirming the 
model used to induce Alzheimer's disease. The results of the behavioral tests in 
this study showed that, consistent with previous work, scopolamine caused a 
significant increase in anxiety behavior that was associated with a decrease in 
time spent in the central area compared to the control group, while donepezil 
injection resulted in a decrease in anxiety behavior. The time spent in the 
central area was increased compared to the scopolamine group.

DOI: 10.32592/ARI.2024.79.2.248
PMCID: PMC11512176
PMID: 39463714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


81. Swiss Med Wkly. 2024 Oct 1;154:3410. doi: 10.57187/s.3418.

Vulnerability to heat-related mortality and the effect of prevention measures: a 
time-stratified case-crossover study in Switzerland.

Ragettli MS(1)(2), Flückiger B(1)(2), Vienneau D(1)(2), Domingo-Irigoyen S(3), 
Koschenz M(3), Röösli M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute (Swiss TPH), Allschwil, 
Switzerland.
(2)University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts. School of Engineering and 
Architecture, Horw, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Swiss climate scenarios predict increases in the frequency and 
intensity of extreme heat episodes in the future. For the effective prevention 
of heat-related mortality, several aspects of the population's vulnerability to 
heat must be understood on a local level.
METHODS: A nationwide analysis of individual death records was conducted, 
enabling a more comprehensive understanding than typical heat studies based on 
aggregated data. A total of 320,306 individual death records from the Swiss 
National Cohort with precise address information during the warm season (May to 
September) from 2003-2016 were linked to indoor and outdoor high-resolution 
daily temperature estimates. A time-stratified case-crossover study combined 
with distributed lag non-linear models was then performed to assess the 
temperature-mortality associations for various causes of death and to estimate 
the potential effect modification of individual characteristics. Additionally, 
it was explored whether the effect of extreme heat changed over time in regions 
with and without cantonal heat-health action plans (HHAPs).
RESULTS: Using the temperature with the lowest cause-specific mortality risk 
(minimum mortality temperature) as the reference temperature, extreme heat 
(defined as ambient daily maximum temperature reaching 33 °C) was associated 
with a strong increase in all-cause mortality (odds ratio (OR): 1.21, 95% CI: 
1.17-1.25) and disease-specific mortality from Alzheimer's disease and dementia 
(OR: 1.67, 95% CI: 1.48-1.88), COPD (OR: 1.37, 95% CI: 1.12-1.67), diabetes (OR: 
1.34, 95% CI: 1.06-1.70), and myocardial infarction (OR: 1.26, 95% CI: 
1.10-1.44). Indoor temperatures above 24 °C were found to be critical for 
mortality. The population most vulnerable to heat included older adults (≥75 
years), unmarried individuals, people with a low education level, older women 
with low neighbourhood socioeconomic position, and men under 75 years old with 
low socioeconomic position. Overall, the risk of heat-related all-cause 
mortality in 2009-2016 was lower than that in 2003-2008. The decrease was 
significantly stronger in the region where cantonal HHAPs were implemented.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides important information for planning targeted and 
effective measures to reduce heat-related health risks in Switzerland. It 
demonstrates that HHAPs contribute to reducing heat-related mortality, although 
they may not reach the high-risk population of individuals with low 
socioeconomic position. Future prevention efforts should also target the less 
privileged population, including people younger than 75 years.

DOI: 10.57187/s.3418
PMID: 39463255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Discov Med. 2024 Oct;36(189):1917-1932. doi:
10.24976/Discov.Med.202436189.179.

Role of Apolipoprotein E in Alzheimer's Disease Pathogenesis, Prognosis and 
Treatment.

Reiss AB(1)(2), Housny M(2), Gulkarov S(2), Hossain T(2), Locke B(2), Srivastava 
A(2), Pinkhasov A(1), Gomolin IH(1), Wisniewski T(3), De Leon J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, Mineola, 
NY 11501, USA.
(2)Department of Foundations of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of 
Medicine, Mineola, NY 11501, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY 10016, 
USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an incurable and progressive neurodegenerative 
disease with increasing prevalence worldwide. Previous trials of anti-amyloid 
and anti-tau immunotherapy indicate that additional research needs to be 
conducted on other mechanisms to find curative or disease-modifying therapy. 
This review focuses on apolipoprotein E (ApoE), a critical protein in brain 
lipid metabolism that acts specifically in the clearance and transport of lipids 
and cholesterol. The ApoE4 allele confers substantial gene dose-dependent risk 
of developing AD and lowers the age of onset of AD, although the mechanisms of 
influence remain incompletely understood. The other isoforms bring different 
levels of AD risk. ApoE2 is protective while ApoE3 is the most common isoform 
and is considered neutral. An overview is presented of the latest information on 
the role of ApoE in AD pathogenesis with an emphasis on pathways that are 
involved in AD development and interactions with crucial processes in different 
cell types in the brain. Elucidating the key interactions of ApoE with multiple 
aspects of brain function can be useful for designing novel ApoE-targeted 
therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.24976/Discov.Med.202436189.179
PMID: 39463215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2024 Dec;241(12):2409-2430. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-024-06708-4. Epub 2024 Oct 27.

A potential role of gut microbiota in stroke: mechanisms, therapeutic strategies 
and future prospective.

Kaur M(1), Aran KR(2), Paswan R(3).

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, 142001, India.
(2)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, 142001, India. bishalarann@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmacy Practice, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, 
142001, India.

RATIONALE: Neurological conditions like Stroke and Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
often include inflammatory responses in the nervous system. Stroke, linked to 
high disability and mortality rates, poses challenges related to organ-related 
complications. Recent focus on understanding the pathophysiology of ischemic 
stroke includes aspects like cellular excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, cell 
death mechanisms, and neuroinflammation.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this paper is to summarize and explore the 
pathophysiology of ischemic stroke, elucidates the gut-brain axis mechanism, and 
discusses recent clinical trials, shedding light on novel treatments and future 
possibilities.
RESULTS: Changes in gut architecture and microbiota contribute to dementia by 
enhancing intestinal permeability, activating the immune system, elevating 
proinflammatory mediators, altering blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, and 
ultimately leading to neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs). The gut-brain axis's 
potential role in disease pathophysiology offers new avenues for cell-based 
regenerative medicine in treating neurological conditions.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, the gut microbiome significantly impacts stroke 
prognosis by highlighting the role of the gut-brain axis in ischemic stroke 
mechanisms. This insight suggests potential therapeutic strategies for improving 
outcomes.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-024-06708-4
PMID: 39463207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethical approval This work is a 
review paper, and thus, no ethical approval is required. Competing interests The 
authors assert that they do not have any known financial interests or personal 
relationships that could be perceived as influencing the work reported in this 
paper.


84. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2024 Oct-Dec 01;38(4):367-368. doi: 
10.1097/WAD.0000000000000650. Epub 2024 Oct 28.

Discontinuation of Alzheimer Disease Medications in Patients Receiving Home Care 
Medicine.

Kidana K(1), Yamaga R(2)(3), Fujii H(4), Akishita M(1)(5), Yamanaka T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Home Care Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, The University 
of Tokyo.
(2)Yamaga Home Care Clinic.
(3)Tsubasa Home Care Clinic, Chiba, Japan.
(4)Komeikai Home Care Clinic.
(5)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Tokyo.

There is no consensus on how long antidementia medications should be 
administered to patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). To clarify this issue, we 
investigated the discontinuation of antidementia medications in Japanese home 
care settings, including community-dwelling and institutionalized patients. 
Using medical records from April 2017 to March 2022 at 3 clinics in Tokyo and 
Chiba prefectures, we selected patients with AD who started receiving home care 
medicine. Forty-nine patients discontinued antidementia medications during the 
observation period, there was no apparent deterioration in cognitive function or 
new occurrence of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia caused by 
the discontinuation of medications. More aggressive discontinuation of AD 
medications probably is recommended for patients with activities of daily living 
dysfunction, such as those receiving home care medicine.

Copyright © 2024 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/WAD.0000000000000650
PMID: 39462828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: K.K., T.Y., and M.A. belong to an endowed chair 
funded by donations from Mr Kazuteru Noguchi, JSH, Towa Pharmaceutical, Sawai 
Pharmaceutical, Ain Pharmaciez, Hakue Technology, PROUMED, Japan Bio Products, 
Yellow Eight and Sugi Holdings. M.A. received remuneration from Bayer Health 
Care, Daiichi Sankyo, Toa Eiyo, and Towa Pharmaceutical, and received research 
funding from Eisai, Kracie Pharma, Mitsubishi-Tanabe Pharma, and Tsumura. The 
remaining authors declare no conflicts of interest.


85. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Feb;33(2):209-218. doi: 
10.1016/j.jagp.2024.09.016. Epub 2024 Oct 3.

Efficacy And Safety of Dual Orexin Receptor Antagonist (DORA) For Sleep 
Disturbance in Patients With Alzheimer's Disease Dementia. A Review Article.

Alshiban A(1), Hasoglu T(2), Oster J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry (AA), Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA. Electronic 
address: Alshibana@outlook.com.
(2)Department of Psychiatry (TH), Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, 
MA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Tufts Medical Center Boston (JO), Boston, MA.

INTRODUCTION: The rising prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related 
dementia worldwide underscores the urgent need for effective interventions, 
particularly for managing neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) such as sleep 
disturbance. This review explores the emerging role of Dual Orexin Receptor 
Antagonists (DORA) in addressing sleep disturbance in patients with Alzheimer's 
disease dementia.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search identified four relevant publications 
between 2014 and 2024, detailing the use of DORA medications, including 
suvorexant and lemborexant, in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
RESULTS: Findings suggest that suvorexant may improve total sleep time (TST), 
wakefulness after sleep onset (WASO), and sleep efficiency (SE) in Alzheimer's 
patients with insomnia. Lemborexant demonstrated potential in improving 
circadian rhythm parameters, particularly in patients with irregular sleep-wake 
rhythm disorder (ISWRD). Safety profiles of DORA medications appeared favorable, 
with mild to moderate adverse events reported. However, concerns over potential 
adverse events, such as falls, underscore the need for careful monitoring.
CONCLUSION: While the evidence suggests promise for DORA medications in 
addressing sleep disturbance in Alzheimer's disease, limitations in study 
populations and duration highlight the need for further investigation. Future 
clinical trials should aim for broader inclusion criteria, encompassing diverse 
dementia subtypes and severity levels, to enhance generalizability. 
Additionally, longer-term trials are essential to assess the sustained efficacy 
and safety of DORA interventions in this vulnerable population.

Copyright © 2024 American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2024.09.016
PMID: 39462720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES The authors report no conflicts with 
any product mentioned or concept discussed in this article.


86. Neurotherapeutics. 2024 Oct;21(6):e00470. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00470. 
Epub 2024 Oct 28.

Gut microbial metabolism in Alzheimer's disease and related dementias.

Kang JW(1), Vemuganti V(2), Kuehn JF(2), Ulland TK(3), Rey FE(2), Bendlin BB(4).

Author information:
(1)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(2)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(3)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA; Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA; Wisconsin Alzheimer's 
Institute, School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. Electronic address: bbb@medicine.wisc.edu.

Multiple studies over the last decade have established that Alzheimer's disease 
and related dementias (ADRD) are associated with changes in the gut microbiome. 
These alterations in organismal composition result in changes in the abundances 
of functions encoded by the microbial community, including metabolic 
capabilities, which likely impact host disease mechanisms. Gut microbes access 
dietary components and other molecules made by the host and produce metabolites 
that can enter circulation and cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). In recent 
years, several microbial metabolites have been associated with or have been 
shown to influence host pathways relevant to ADRD pathology. These include short 
chain fatty acids, secondary bile acids, tryptophan derivatives (such as 
kynurenine, serotonin, tryptamine, and indoles), and 
trimethylamine/trimethylamine N-oxide. Notably, some of these metabolites cross 
the BBB and can have various effects on the brain, including modulating the 
release of neurotransmitters and neuronal function, inducing oxidative stress 
and inflammation, and impacting synaptic function. Microbial metabolites can 
also impact the central nervous system through immune, enteroendocrine, and 
enteric nervous system pathways, these perturbations in turn impact the gut 
barrier function and peripheral immune responses, as well as the BBB integrity, 
neuronal homeostasis and neurogenesis, and glial cell maturation and activation. 
This review examines the evidence supporting the notion that ADRD is influenced 
by gut microbiota and its metabolites. The potential therapeutic advantages of 
microbial metabolites for preventing and treating ADRD are also discussed, 
highlighting their potential role in developing new treatments.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00470
PMCID: PMC11585892
PMID: 39462700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


87. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2024 Oct 26;16(1):238. doi: 10.1186/s13195-024-01602-9.

Association of modifiable risk factors with progression to dementia in relation 
to amyloid and tau pathology.

Huszár Z(1)(2), Solomon A(3)(4)(5), Engh MA(1), Koszovácz V(2), Terebessy T(1), 
Molnár Z(1)(6)(7), Hegyi P(1)(8)(9)(10), Horváth A(1)(11)(12)(13), Mangialasche 
F(14)(15), Kivipelto M(4)(5)(14)(15), Csukly G(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Translational Medicine, Semmelweis University, Üllői Út 26, 
Budapest, Hungary.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Semmelweis University, Balassa U. 
6, Budapest, 1083, Hungary.
(3)Institute of Clinical Medicine/Neurology, University of Eastern Finland, 
Kuopio, Finland.
(4)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department of 
Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(5)Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(6)Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy, Semmelweis University, 
Üllői 78/A, Budapest, Hungary.
(7)Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy, Poznan University of 
Medical Sciences, 49 Przybyszewskiego St, Poznan, Poland.
(8)Institute for Translational Medicine, Medical School, University of Pécs, 
Szigeti U. 12, Pécs, Hungary.
(9)Institute of Pancreatic Diseases, Semmelweis University, Tömő 25-29, 
Budapest, Hungary.
(10)Translational Pancreatology Research Group, Interdisciplinary Centre of 
Excellence for Research Development and Innovation, University of Szeged, 6728, 
Szeged, Hungary.
(11)Neurocognitive Research Center, National Institute of Mental Health, 
Neurology, and Neurosurgery, Budapest, Hungary.
(12)Department of Anatomy, Histology and Embryology, Semmelweis University, 
Budapest, Hungary.
(13)Research Centre for Natural Sciences, Hungarian Research Network, Budapest, 
Hungary.
(14)Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(15)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Medical Unit Aging, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(16)Centre for Translational Medicine, Semmelweis University, Üllői Út 26, 
Budapest, Hungary. csukly.gabor@semmelweis.hu.
(17)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Semmelweis University, Balassa 
U. 6, Budapest, 1083, Hungary. csukly.gabor@semmelweis.hu.

BACKGROUND: Dementia preventive interventions targeting multiple modifiable risk 
factors are a promising approach. However, the impact of modifiable risk factors 
in the presence of beta-amyloid or phosphorylated-tau (p-tau) pathology is 
unclear.
METHODS: The objective of the study was to examine the role of modifiable risk 
factors (vascular factors, depression, and smoking) in the progression to mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia among 434 cognitively unimpaired (CU) and 
611 individuals with MCI from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 
(ADNI) database. Vascular risk factors were summarized with the Cardiovascular 
Risk Factors, Aging, and Dementia (CAIDE) score, dichotomized into higher versus 
lower risk. Depression and smoking (yes/no) were categorised according to 
medical history or current symptoms. Analyses were stratified by beta-amyloid 
negative (A-) and positive (A +), p-tau negative (T-) and positive (T +), or 
beta-amyloid and p-tau negative (A-T-) and positive (A + T +) biomarker status. 
Cox proportional hazard models were adjusted for age, sex, education, baseline 
MMSE score, baseline hippocampal volume and ApoE4 carrier status.
RESULTS: Higher CAIDE score was associated with increased risk of progression to 
all-cause dementia in most MCI subgroups: adjusted hazard ratios (aHR) [95% CI] 
were 3.1 [1.43; 6.53] in the A- subgroup, 1.7 [1.20-2.27] in T + , 2.6 
[1.06-6.59] in A-T-, and 1.6 [1.15-2.22] in the A + T + subgroup. Smoking 
(yes/no) was associated with increased dementia aHR in the A + MCI subgroup: 1.6 
[1.07-2.34]. Depression increased dementia aHR in the T + MCI subgroup: 1.5 
[1.06-2.02]. No significant associations were found in the CU biomarker 
subgroups.
CONCLUSION: Addressing modifiable risk factors carries an important potential 
for reducing the risk of dementia even after the onset of Alzheimer's pathology. 
Knowledge of biomarker status can further optimize prevention strategies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-024-01602-9
PMCID: PMC11515263
PMID: 39462394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


88. Gut Microbes. 2024 Jan-Dec;16(1):2420765. doi: 10.1080/19490976.2024.2420765.
 Epub 2024 Oct 27.

How important are fatty acids in human health and can they be used in treating 
diseases?

Dicks LMT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South 
Africa.

Most of the short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are produced by Bifidobacterium, 
Lactobacillus, Lachnospiraceae, Blautia, Coprococcus, Roseburia, 
Facealibacterium and Oscillospira. Butyrate (C4H7O2-) supplies 70% of energy to 
intestinal epithelial cells (IECs), supports tight-junction protein formation, 
induces the production of inflammatory cytokines, and inhibits histone 
deacetylase (HDAC). Butyrate is also associated with the recovery of brain 
trauma, improvement of dementia, the alleviation of autoimmune encephalitis, and 
several intestinal disorders. Low levels of SCFAs are associated with 
hypertension, cardiovascular disease (CVD), strokes, obesity, and diabetes 
mellitus. Cis-palmitoleic acid (C16H30O2), a mono-unsaturated fatty acid (MUFA), 
increases insulin sensitivity and reduces the risk of developing CVD. Lipokine 
palmitoleic acid reduces the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β 
(pro-IL1β), tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), and isoleucine 6 (IL-6). 
Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), such as omega-3 and omega-6, are supplied 
through the diet. The conversion of PUFAs by cyclooxygenases (COX) and 
lipoxygenases (LOX) leads to the production of anti-inflammatory prostaglandins 
and leukotrienes. Oxidation of linoleic acid (LA, C18H32O2), an omega-6 
essential fatty acid, leads to the formation of 13-hydroperoxy octadecadienoic 
acid (13-HPODE, C18H32O4), which induces pro-inflammatory cytokines. Omega-3 
PUFAs, such as eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, C20H30O2) and docosahexaenoic acid 
(DHA, C22H32O2), lower triglyceride levels, lower the risk of developing some 
sort of cancers, Alzheimer's disease and dementia. In this review, the 
importance of SCFAs, MUFAs, PUFAs, and saturated fatty acids (SFAs) on human 
health is discussed. The use of fatty acids in the treatment of diseases is 
investigated.

DOI: 10.1080/19490976.2024.2420765
PMCID: PMC11520540
PMID: 39462280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s). No AI technology or ChatGPT software has been used in the 
writing of this review. All figures were created using Biorender.com.


89. Brain Pathol. 2025 May;35(3):e13316. doi: 10.1111/bpa.13316. Epub 2024 Oct
26.

Aerobic exercise improves astrocyte mitochondrial quality and transfer to 
neurons in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Cai J(1)(2), Chen Y(1)(2), She Y(1)(2), He X(1)(2), Feng H(1), Sun H(1)(3), Yin 
M(1)(3), Gao J(1)(4), Sheng C(1), Li Q(1)(2), Xiao M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Neurodegeneration, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, China.
(2)Nanjing Brain Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 
China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, China.
(4)Department of Anatomy, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.

Mitochondrial dysfunction is a well-established hallmark of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Despite recent documentation of transcellular mitochondrial transfer, its 
role in the pathogenesis of AD remains unclear. In this study, we report an 
impairment of mitochondrial quality within the astrocytes and neurons of adult 
5 × FAD mice. Following treatment with mitochondria isolated from aged 
astrocytes induced by exposure to amyloid protein or extended cultivation, 
cultured neurons exhibited an excessive generation of reactive oxygen species 
and underwent neurite atrophy. Notably, aerobic exercise enhanced mitochondrial 
quality by upregulating CD38 within hippocampal astrocytes of 5 × FAD mice. 
Conversely, the knockdown of CD38 diminished astrocytic-neuronal mitochondrial 
transfer, thereby abolishing the ameliorative effects of aerobic exercise on 
neuronal oxidative stress, β-amyloid plaque deposition, and cognitive 
dysfunction in 5 × FAD mice. These findings unveil an unexpected mechanism 
through which aerobic exercise facilitates the transference of healthy 
mitochondria from astrocytes to neurons, thus countering the AD-like 
progression.

© 2024 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/bpa.13316
PMCID: PMC11961210
PMID: 39462160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


90. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 26;14(1):25474. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-76601-9.

Brazilian kefir fraction mitigates the Alzheimer-like phenotype in Drosophila 
melanogaster with β-amyloid overexpression model.

Malta SM(1), Rodrigues TS(2), Silva MH(2), Marquez AS(2), Ferreira RB(2), do 
Prado Mascarenhas FNA(3), Zanon RG(3), Bernardes LMM(2), Batista LL(4), da Silva 
MNT(5), de Oliveira Santos D(6), Santos ACC(2), Mendes-Silva AP(7), Spindola 
FS(2), Ueira-Vieira C(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, Institute of Biotechnology, Federal University of 
Uberlândia, Acre Street, 2E building, room 230, Uberlândia, MG, 38405-319, 
Brazil. serena@ufu.br.
(2)Laboratory of Genetics, Institute of Biotechnology, Federal University of 
Uberlândia, Acre Street, 2E building, room 230, Uberlândia, MG, 38405-319, 
Brazil.
(3)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Federal University of Uberlândia, 
Uberlândia, MG, Brazil.
(4)Institute of Developmental Biology and Neurobiology, Johannes Gutenberg 
University Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(5)Institute of Chemistry, Federal University of Uberlândia, Uberlândia, MG, 
Brazil.
(6)Faculty of Odontology, Federal University of Uberlândia, Uberlândia, MG, 
Brazil.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada.
(8)Laboratory of Genetics, Institute of Biotechnology, Federal University of 
Uberlândia, Acre Street, 2E building, room 230, Uberlândia, MG, 38405-319, 
Brazil. ueira@ufu.br.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative condition and the 
primary form of dementia among elderly people. The amyloidogenic hypothesis is 
the main theory that explains this phenomenon and describes the extracellular 
accumulation of amyloid beta (Aβ) peptides. Model organisms such as Drosophila 
melanogaster have been utilized to improve the understanding of this disease and 
its treatment. This study evaluated the effects of peptide and metabolic 
fractions of Brazilian kefir on a strain of D. melanogaster that expresses human 
Aβ peptide 1-42 in the eye. The parameters assessed included ommatidial 
organization, vacuole area, retinal thickness, and Aβ peptide quantification. 
The present study revealed that the fractions, particularly the peptidic 
fraction, significantly reduced the vacuole area and increased the retina 
thickness in treated flies, indicating an improvement in neurodegeneration 
phenotype. The peptidic fraction was also found to alter Aβ aggregation 
dynamics, inhibiting Aβ fibril formation, as revealed by dynamic light 
scattering. This study demonstrated that kefir fractions, particularly the 
peptidic fraction < 10 kDa, have the potential to regulate Aβ aggregation and 
alleviate neurodegeneration in a Drosophila melanogaster AD-like model. These 
findings suggest that kefir fractions could be viable for the bioprospection of 
novel drug prototypes for AD treatment, providing valuable insights into 
strategies targeting Aβ aggregation and neurodegeneration in AD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-76601-9
PMCID: PMC11513133
PMID: 39461991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


91. Exp Neurol. 2025 Jan;383:115026. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115026. Epub
2024  Oct 24.

Effect of vildagliptin conjugated monometallic nanoparticles and bimetallic 
nanocomposites on diabetes-induced cognitive deficit.

Pradhan SP(1), Behera A(2), Sahu PK(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Siksha' O'Anusandhan Deemed to be 
University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.
(2)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Dayananda Sagar University, Kumaraswamy 
Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560078, India. Electronic address: 
anindita-sps@dsu.edu.in.

Oxidative stress is one of the major causes of different metabolic disorders, 
including diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, neurodegenerative diseases and 
cancers. Some metabolic disorders like diabetes mellitus leads to secondary 
complications after micro and macrovascular complications. Some of the most 
prevalent neurodegenerative diseases, like cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's 
disease, are found in chronic diabetic patients. The present study is designed 
to understand the mechanism of interconnection between diabetes mellitus and 
cognitive deficit using the alloxan model of diabetes-induced cognitive deficit 
in the rat model. The alloxan monohydrate produces reactive oxygen species, 
producing superoxide free radicals, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radicals. The 
hydroxyl radicals ultimately cause the death of beta cells, causing diabetes. 
Hence, the correlation of oxidative stress and neurodegeneration in cognitive 
impairment is the trigger for this study. In the present study, we investigate 
the ameliorative effect of vildagliptin (VLD) and its conjugated nanoparticles 
against alloxan-associated brain damage due to oxidative stress. The gold (Au), 
selenium (Se) nanoparticles, and bimetallic (Se@Au) nanocomposites of VLD are 
synthesized and assessed for improvement in their brain availability. The 
in-vitro antioxidant evaluation of the VLD and nanoparticles is done using DPPH, 
ABTS, and FRAP assay. The memory-related neurobehavioral studies, in-vivo 
antioxidant studies, in-vivo biochemical studies, and histopathological 
examinations are evaluated in rat brains. The VLD and its nanoformulations 
exhibited in-vitro and in-vivo antioxidant properties significantly (p < 0.01). 
They reduced the activity of AChE and nitrite in the alloxan diabetic rats. The 
bimetallic Se@Au VLDNCs displayed a more protective effect than VLD, VLD-AuNPs, 
and VLD-SeNPs.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115026
PMID: 39461711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


92. Exp Neurol. 2025 Jan;383:115029. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115029. Epub
2024  Oct 25.

Rotating magnetic field improves cognitive and memory impairments in APP/PS1 
mice by activating autophagy and inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway.

Li M(1), Mo Y(2), Yu Q(3), Anayyat U(1), Yang H(1), Zhang F(1), Wei Y(4), Wang 
X(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, Guangdong 
518061, China.
(2)Songgang People's Hospital, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518105, China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518061, China.
(4)Songgang People's Hospital, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518105, China. Electronic 
address: wyp@nwpu.edu.cn.
(5)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, Guangdong 
518061, China; International Cancer Center, Shenzhen University Health Sciences 
Center, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518061, China. Electronic address: 
xmwang@szu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a geriatric disorder that can be roughly classified 
into sporadic AD and hereditary AD. The latter is strongly associated with 
genetic factors, and its treatment poses greater challenges compared to sporadic 
AD. Rotating magnetic fields (RMF) is a non-invasive treatment known to have 
diverse biological effects, including the modulation of the central nervous 
system and aging. However, the impact of RMF on hereditary AD and its underlying 
mechanism remain unexplored. In this study, we exposed APP/PS1 mice to RMF 
(2 h/day, 0.2 T, 4 Hz) for a duration of 6 months. The results demonstrated that 
RMF treatment significantly ameliorated their cognitive and memory impairments, 
attenuated neuronal damage, and reduced amyloid deposition. Furthermore, 
RNA-sequencing analysis revealed a significant enrichment of autophagy-related 
genes and the PI3K/AKT-mTOR signaling pathway. Western blotting further 
confirmed that RMF activated autophagy and suppressed the phosphorylation of 
proteins associated with the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway in APP/PS1 mice. 
These protective effects and the underlying mechanism were also observed in 
Aβ25-35-exposed HT22 cells. Collectively, our findings indicate that RMF 
improves cognitive and memory dysfunction in APP/PS1 mice by activating 
autophagy and inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway, thus highlighting 
the potential of RMF as a clinical treatment for hereditary AD.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115029
PMID: 39461710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that the publication of this paper has no conflicts of interest.


93. Neurosci Lett. 2024 Nov 20;843:138026. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2024.138026.
Epub  2024 Oct 24.

Joint administration of sub-threshold doses of the acetylcholinesterase 
inhibitor donepezil with those of the NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine improved 
rats' recognition memory abilities.

Styla AM(1), Pitsikas N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Thessaly, Larissa, Greece.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Thessaly, Larissa, Greece. Electronic address: 
npitsikas@med.uth.gr.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a serious progressive neurodegenerative illness 
conducting to the decay of cognitive functions. A few drugs have been approved 
for the therapy of AD, including the acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) 
like donepezil. Their efficiency, however, is modest and their application is 
associated with toxicity. Recently, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor 
antagonist ketamine, a rapidly acting antidepressant, has been proposed as a 
potential agent for the treatment of AD. The present study was designed to 
investigate the effects exerted by the combination of sub-threshold doses of 
donepezil with those of ketamine on rats' recognition memory abilities. For 
these experiments, the object recognition task (ORT) and the object location 
task (OLT), two procedures assessing non-spatial and spatial recognition memory 
respectively in rodents were used. Post-training acute administration of 
inactive doses of donepezil (0.3 mg/kg) and ketamine (1 mg/kg) counteracted 
non-spatial and spatial recognition memory impairments. The present findings, 
although preliminary, propose that the combined administration of ketamine and 
donepezil could represent a new strategy for the therapy of memory disorders, a 
common feature of AD patients.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2024.138026
PMID: 39461705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


94. Neurobiol Dis. 2024 Nov;202:106717. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2024.106717. Epub 2024
 Oct 24.

Diagnostic and mechanistic roles of MicroRNAs in neurodevelopmental & 
neurodegenerative disorders.

Khoodoruth MAS(1), Khoodoruth WNC(2), Uroos M(3), Al-Abdulla M(4), Khan YS(5), 
Mohammad F(6).

Author information:
(1)Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, 
Qatar; College of Health and Life Sciences, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, 
Education City, Qatar.
(2)Centre of Disease Control and Prevention Department, Hamad Medical 
Corporation, Qatar.
(3)American School of Doha, Qatar.
(4)Mental Health Service, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar; College of 
Medicine, Qatar University, Doha, Qatar.
(5)Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, 
Qatar.
(6)College of Health and Life Sciences, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Education 
City, Qatar. Electronic address: mohammadfarhan@hbku.edu.qa.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are emerging as crucial elements in the regulation of gene 
expression, playing a significant role in the underlying neurobiology of a wide 
range of neuropsychiatric disorders. This review examines the intricate 
involvement of miRNAs in neuropsychiatric disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), Fragile X syndrome 
(FXS), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder 
(ADHD), Tourette syndrome (TS), schizophrenia (SCZ), and mood disorders. This 
review highlights how miRNA dysregulation can illuminate the molecular pathways 
of these diseases and potentially serve as biomarkers for early diagnosis and 
prognosis. Specifically, miRNAs' ability to target genes critical to the 
pathology of neurodegenerative diseases, their role in the development of 
trinucleotide repeat and neurodevelopmental disorders, and their distinctive 
patterns in SCZ and mood disorders are discussed. The review also stresses the 
value of miRNAs in precision neuropsychiatry, where they could predict treatment 
outcomes and aid in disease management. Furthermore, the study of conserved 
miRNAs in model organisms like Drosophila underscores their broad utility and 
provides deeper mechanistic insights into their biological functions. This 
comprehensive examination of miRNAs across various conditions advocates for 
their integration into clinical practice, promising advancements in personalized 
healthcare for neurological and psychiatric conditions.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2024.106717
PMID: 39461569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in 
the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors. The authors confirm that 
there are no patents, copyrights, or proprietary interests related to this work.


95. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Jan 31;340:118986. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118986.
Epub  2024 Oct 24.

Safflower yellow alleviates cognitive impairment in mice by modulating 
cholinergic system function, oxidative stress, and CREB/BDNF/TrkB signaling 
pathway.

Qi Y(1), Wang Y(2), Ni M(3), He Y(2), Li L(2), Hu Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Xinjiang Phytomedicine Resource and Utilization, Ministry 
of Education, Department of Pharmacology, Shihezi University, Shihezi, 832000, 
Xinjiang, People's Republic of China; Department of Pharmacy, The First People's 
Hospital of Xianyang, Xianyang, 712000, Shaanxi, People's Republic of China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Xinjiang Phytomedicine Resource and Utilization, Ministry 
of Education, Department of Pharmacology, Shihezi University, Shihezi, 832000, 
Xinjiang, People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Basic Medicine, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, 150081, People's 
Republic of China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Xinjiang Phytomedicine Resource and Utilization, Ministry 
of Education, Department of Pharmacology, Shihezi University, Shihezi, 832000, 
Xinjiang, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: hyl_pha@shzu.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Carthamus tinctorius L. (Safflower) was believed 
to have multiple benefits, including antioxidant effects, enhanced learning and 
memory, and improving neuronal injury. Safflower Yellow(SY) are the main active 
ingredients of Safflower, displays strong pharmacological potential treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease(AD). However, its effect on memory impairments remains 
insufficiently investigated.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The study aims to investigate the effects of SY on cognitive 
functions in memory impairments model and to explore the mechanism of its 
action.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We utilized the Morris Water Maze, Step-Through Test, 
Step-Down Test to assess the potential of SY in ameliorating learning and memory 
dysfunction caused by SCOP, NaNO2 and ethanol in mice. Bioinformatic analysis 
and molecular biological approaches were used to study the related mechanisms of 
SY on anti-memory impairments.
RESULTS: The results of the Morris Water Test suggested that SY could shorten 
the escape latency and the time of the first crossing platform in the mice with 
memory acquisition and memory consolidation impairments, and increase the 
platform crossing times. The results of the Step-Though test and Step-Down test 
showed that the escape latency in the mice was prolonged and the number of 
errors was reduced after SY treatment. ELISA experiments indicated that SY 
decreased the AChE activities, increased the ChAT activities, and modulated 
oxidative stress markers (SOD, MDA, and GSH-PX) in scopolamine-induced mice. 
Western Blot and Nissl staining showed that SY could activated BDNF/TrkB/CREB 
signaling pathway and reduced neuronal damage.
CONCLUSION: The findings present that SY can restore the function of the 
cholinergic system, inhibit oxidative stress, regulate the expression of 
upstream and downstream proteins in the CREB/BDNF/TrkB pathway, and alleviate 
brain tissue damage to improve memory impairment in mice.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118986
PMID: 39461389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


96. Eur J Med Chem. 2024 Dec 15;280:116959. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116959.
Epub  2024 Oct 15.

Discovery of novel substituted (Z)-N'-hydroxy-3-(3-phenylureido)benzimidamide 
derivatives as multifunctional molecules targeting pathological hallmarks of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Shankar G(1), Praveen Kumar C(1), Yadav M(1), Ghosh A(2), Panda SR(3), Banerjee 
A(4), Tiwari A(1), Rai S(5), Kumar S(6), Garg P(4), Naidu VGM(3), Kulkarni O(2), 
Modi G(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering & Technology, Indian Institute of 
Technology (BHU) Varanasi, U.P., 221005, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Birla Institute of Technology and Science Pilani, 
Hyderabad Campus, Jawaharnagar Shamirpet Mandal, 500078, Hyderabad, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER)-Guwahati, Assam, 781101, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacoinformatics, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER), S.A.S. Nagar, Punjab, 160062, India.
(5)Department of Biophysics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
110029, India.
(6)Department of Biophysics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
110029, India; Department of Health, Education and Technology, Lulea University 
of Technology, Lulea, Sweden.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering & Technology, Indian Institute of 
Technology (BHU) Varanasi, U.P., 221005, India. Electronic address: 
gpmodi.phe@itbhu.ac.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder marked by significant 
loss of central cholinergic neurons. This progressive deterioration leads to 
cognitive dysfunction and impaired motor activity, culminating in the brain 
cell's death at the later stages of the disease. The approved drugs for AD are 
limited to providing symptomatic relief for an initial period due to the 
multifaceted etiology of the disease. Several studies have demonstrated that 
rivastigmine (RIV) is a selectively potent inhibitor of butyrylcholinesterase 
and devoid of antioxidant, Aβ, and tau protein aggregation inhibition and 
anti-inflammatory properties. Therefore, to address these issues associated with 
RIV, novel rivastigmine-based molecules were rationally designed, synthesized, 
and evaluated in various in-vitro and in-vivo AD models. In in-vitro 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibition studies 
revealed that 3q & 6e as promising leads (AChE, IC50 1.72 ± 0.15, 
0.91 ± 0.016 μM, BChE, IC50 6.69 ± 0.28 μM, 1.19 ± 0.026 μM, for 3q & 6e, 
respectively). The computational studies (molecular docking and dynamics) 
further corroborated the in-vitro studies. Further, 3q and 6e were found to be 
potent antioxidants in the DPPH assay (IC50 16.15 ± 1.05 & 15.17 ± 0.07 μM, for 
3q & 6e, respectively). Interestingly, 3q, and 6e could effectively inhibit 
self-induced full-length tau and Aβ1-42 aggregation. Treatment with 3q & 6e 
inhibited microglial activation by attenuating ROS release and mitochondrial 
damage. Further, 3q & 6e also suppressed NLRP3 inflammasome and NF-κB expression 
levels in microglial cells and halted the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines 
in human microglial cells. Finally, 3q & 6e were found to be efficacious in 
reversing the scopolamine-induced memory impairment in the Morris water maze 
test. The expression of various neuroprotection markers, such as BDNF and TRKB, 
was significantly overexpressed compared to the disease control group.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116959
PMID: 39461036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


97. Biomed Pharmacother. 2024 Nov;180:117611. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2024.117611. 
Epub 2024 Oct 25.

Mechanism of Gastrodin against neurotoxicity based on network pharmacology, 
molecular docking and experimental verification.

Guo H(1), Li C(2), Zhao J(2), Guo T(3), Chen S(2), Qin X(2), Zhu K(2), Zhang 
W(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology of Chinese Materia Medica, Institution of Chinese 
Integrative Medicine, Shijiazhuang, Hebei 050017, China; Department of Oral 
Medicine, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei 
050000, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology of Chinese Materia Medica, Institution of Chinese 
Integrative Medicine, Shijiazhuang, Hebei 050017, China.
(3)Department of plastic surgery, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei 050000, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacology of Chinese Materia Medica, Institution of Chinese 
Integrative Medicine, Shijiazhuang, Hebei 050017, China. Electronic address: 
weizhang@hebmu.edu.cn.

Erratum in
    Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Feb;183:117811. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.117811.

BACKGROUND: Disorders of glutamate metabolism and excessive release participat 
in multiple neuronal pathologies including ischemic stroke (IS), Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), or Parkinson's disease (PD). Recently, herbal medicines have been 
widely used and have shown satisfactory results in the treatment of neurological 
disorders. Gastrodin is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) used for the 
treatment of nerve injuries, spinal cord injuries, and some central nervous 
system diseases as well. This research examines the neuroprotective effects of 
Gastrodin against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in neuronal cells.
METHODS: The HERB database was used to explore the active ingredients and target 
genes of Gastrodia Elata. The STRING database and Cytoscape software were used 
to screen and construct the Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI). Furthermore, we 
used molecular docking to predict the potential targets of Gastrodin. The 
effects of Gastrodin were revealed by western blot, calcium imaging, membrane 
clamp, CCK8 and flow cytometry. Neuronal oxidative stress and damage were 
assessed by measuring malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and superoxide dismutase 
(SOD) activity. Neuronal morphology was examined using Golgi-Cox staining. 
Finally, animal behavior was examined using novel object recognition and fear 
conditioning tests.
RESULTS: We have obtained 22 components such as TM10, TM17, TM25 (Gastrodin), 
and 281 targets such as AKT, EGFR, and CDK1 through network pharmacology. Gene 
Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses 
revealed these genes were significantly enriched in protein phosphorylation, 
protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity, apoptosis and HIF-1 signaling 
pathways, etc. A higher affinity between Gastrodin and AKT was revealed by PPI 
analysis and molecular docking. Further, Gastrodin significantly inhibited Ca2+ 
influxes and excitatory synaptic transmission in cortical neurons. In addition, 
Gastrodin effectively alleviated neuron apoptosis, oxidative stress and damage.
CONCLUSION: Gastrodin has neuroprotective effects against glutamate-induced 
neurotoxicity.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2024.117611
PMID: 39461014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


98. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Apr;62(4):4499-4519. doi: 10.1007/s12035-024-04545-2.
Epub  2024 Oct 26.

Association Between the Gut Microbiota and Alzheimer's Disease: An Update on 
Signaling Pathways and Translational Therapeutics.

Kulkarni R(1), Kumari S(1), Dhapola R(1), Sharma P(1), Singh SK(2), Medhi B(3), 
HariKrishnaReddy D(4).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Pharmacology and Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of 
Pharmacology, School of Health Sciences, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 
151401, Punjab, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, School of Basic Sciences, Central University of 
Punjab, Ghudda, Bathinda, Punjab, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, 160012, India.
(4)Advanced Pharmacology and Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of 
Pharmacology, School of Health Sciences, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 
151401, Punjab, India. harikrishnareddy0011@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a cognitive disease with high morbidity and 
mortality. In AD patients, the diversity of the gut microbiota is altered, which 
influences pathology through the gut-brain axis. Probiotic therapy alleviates 
pathological and psychological consequences by restoring the diversity of the 
gut microbial flora. This study addresses the role of altered gut microbiota in 
the progression of neuroinflammation, which is a major hallmark of AD. This 
process begins with the activation of glial cells, leading to the release of 
proinflammatory cytokines and the modulation of cholinergic anti-inflammatory 
pathways. Short-chain fatty acids, which are bacterial metabolites, provide 
neuroprotective effects and maintain blood‒brain barrier integrity. Furthermore, 
the gut microbiota stimulates oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction, 
which promote AD progression. The signaling pathways involved in gut 
dysbiosis-mediated neuroinflammation-mediated promotion of AD include 
cGAS-STING, C/EBPβ/AEP, RAGE, TLR4 Myd88, and the NLRP3 inflammasome. 
Preclinical studies have shown that natural extracts such as Ganmaidazao 
extract, isoorentin, camelia oil, Sparassis crispa-1, and xanthocerasides 
improve gut health and can delay the worsening of AD. Clinical studies using 
probiotics such as Bifidobacterium spp., yeast beta-glucan, and drugs such as 
sodium oligomannate and rifaximine have shown improvements in gut health, 
resulting in the amelioration of AD symptoms. This study incorporates the most 
current research on the pathophysiology of AD involving the gut microbiota and 
highlights the knowledge gaps that need to be filled to develop potent 
therapeutics against AD.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-024-04545-2
PMID: 39460901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: Yes. Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable Consent for Publication: Not applicable Conflict of 
Interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


99. Psychogeriatrics. 2025 Jan;25(1):e13207. doi: 10.1111/psyg.13207. Epub 2024
Oct  26.

Different physical exercise in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Deng T(1), Yu W(2), Lü Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is rapidly becoming one of the most expensive, 
burdening, and deadly diseases of this century. Up to now, there is still a lack 
of pharmacotherapy with substantial efficacy, and physical exercise is a 
promising and low-cost way to aid in delaying the process of AD. The aim of this 
review is to summarise the efficacy of different physical exercise approaches 
and doses in the management of AD, including aerobic exercise, resistance 
exercise and multicomponent exercise. A literature search using MeSH terms for 
each topic is undertaken using PubMed and the Web of Science Core Collection 
database, supplemented by hand searching for additional references. Retrieved 
articles were reviewed, synthesised, and summarised. This review shows that 
aerobic exercise has been almost unanimously recognised for the improvement of 
cognition, neuropsychiatric symptoms and activities of daily living. Resistance 
exercise also shows a good prospect in the above aspects and has a unique 
advantage in enhancing muscle strength, while multicomponent physical activity 
does not seen to significantly improve cognitive function. Each type of exercise 
has a dose effect, but for individuals with AD, the most appropriate exercise 
dose is still controversial.

© 2024 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/psyg.13207
PMID: 39460576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2024 Oct;30(10):e70091. doi: 10.1111/cns.70091.

The Gut Microbiota Modulates Neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's Disease: 
Elucidating Crucial Factors and Mechanistic Underpinnings.

Yang J(1), Liang J(2), Hu N(1), He N(1), Liu B(2), Liu G(1), Qin Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Harbin Institute of Physical Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, China.
(2)Heilongjiang University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Harbin, Heilongjiang 
Province, China.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive 
cognitive decline and neuronal loss, commonly linked to amyloid-β plaques, 
neurofibrillary tangles, and neuroinflammation. Recent research highlights the 
gut microbiota as a key player in modulating neuroinflammation, a critical 
pathological feature of AD. Understanding the role of the gut microbiota in this 
process is essential for uncovering new therapeutic avenues and gaining deeper 
insights into AD pathogenesis.
METHODS: This review provides a comprehensive analysis of how gut microbiota 
influences neuroinflammation and glial cell function in AD. A systematic 
literature search was conducted, covering studies from 2014 to 2024, including 
reviews, clinical trials, and animal studies. Keywords such as "gut microbiota," 
"Alzheimer's disease," "neuroinflammation," and "blood-brain barrier" were used.
RESULTS: Dysbiosis, or the imbalance in gut microbiota composition, has been 
implicated in the modulation of key AD-related mechanisms, including 
neuroinflammation, blood-brain barrier integrity, and neurotransmitter 
regulation. These disruptions may accelerate the onset and progression of AD. 
Additionally, therapeutic strategies targeting gut microbiota, such as 
probiotics, prebiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation, show promise in 
modulating AD pathology.
CONCLUSIONS: The gut microbiota is a pivotal factor in AD pathogenesis, 
influencing neuroinflammation and disease progression. Understanding the role of 
gut microbiota in AD opens avenues for innovative diagnostic, preventive, and 
therapeutic strategies.

© 2024 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.70091
PMCID: PMC11512114
PMID: 39460538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.