1. ChemMedChem. 2025 May 19;20(10):e202400891. doi: 10.1002/cmdc.202400891. Epub 
2025 Mar 27.

AZP2006 (Ezeprogind(®)): a Promising New Drug Candidate in the Battle Against 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Verwaerde P(1), Defert O(1).

Author information:
(1)Alzprotect SAS, 85 C rue Nelson Mandela, 59120, Loos, France.

Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP) is a rare neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by abnormal tau protein accumulation. This perspective article 
explores AZP2006 (INN: Ezeprogind), a novel small molecule targeting the 
Progranulin (PGRN) and Prosaposin (PSAP) axis to enhance lysosomal health in PSP 
treatment. AZP2006 stabilizes the PGRN-PSAP complex, improving lysosomal 
function and reducing tau pathology. Preclinical studies in tauopathy models 
demonstrated AZP2006's ability to decrease tau hyperphosphorylation, enhance 
neuronal survival, mitigate neuroinflammation and promote synaptogenesis. 
Clinical trials have shown AZP2006 to be well-tolerated in healthy volunteers 
and PSP patients. A Phase 2a study met its primary endpoints, as it provided 
valuable safety data and even encouraged further investigation of its efficacy 
in a larger clinical study. An upcoming Phase 2b/3 trial aims to assess 
long-term safety and efficacy in a larger PSP cohort. AZP2006's mechanism of 
action strongly suggests potential applications in other tauopathies, including 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. By addressing lysosomal dysfunction and 
tau pathology, AZP2006 represents a promising disease-modifying approach for PSP 
and other neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2025 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/cmdc.202400891
PMID: 40150858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Bioengineering (Basel). 2025 Mar 14;12(3):295. doi: 
10.3390/bioengineering12030295.

Electroencephalographic Biomarkers for Neuropsychiatric Diseases: The State of 
the Art.

Huidobro N(1), Meza-Andrade R(2), Méndez-Balbuena I(3), Trenado C(4), Tello 
Bello M(5), Tepichin Rodríguez E(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Universidad Popular Autónoma del Estado de 
Puebla, Puebla 72000, Mexico.
(2)Departamento de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de las Américas Puebla, 
Puebla 72000, Mexico.
(3)Facultad de Psicología, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla, Puebla 
72000, Mexico.
(4)Institute of Clinical Neuroscience and Medical Psychology, Medical Faculty, 
Heinrich Heine University, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany.
(5)Escuela de Ingeniería y Actuaría, Universidad Anáhuac, Puebla 72000, Mexico.
(6)Optics Department, Instituto Nacional de Astrofísica, Óptica y Electrónica, 
Puebla 72000, Mexico.

Because of their nature, biomarkers for neuropsychiatric diseases were out of 
the reach of medical diagnostic technology until the past few decades. In recent 
years, the confluence of greater, affordable computer power with the need for 
more efficient diagnoses and treatments has increased interest in and the 
possibility of their discovery. This review will focus on the progress made over 
the past ten years regarding the search for electroencephalographic biomarkers 
for neuropsychiatric diseases. This includes algorithms and methods of analysis, 
machine learning, and quantitative electroencephalography as applied to 
neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental diseases as well as traumatic brain 
injury and COVID-19. Our findings suggest that there is a need for consensus 
among quantitative electroencephalography researchers on the classification of 
biomarkers that most suit this field; that there is a slight disconnection 
between the development of increasingly sophisticated methods of analysis and 
what they will actually be of use for in the clinical setting; and finally, that 
diagnostic biomarkers are the most favored type in the field with a few caveats. 
The main goal of this state-of-the-art review is to provide the reader with a 
general panorama of the state of the art in this field.

DOI: 10.3390/bioengineering12030295
PMCID: PMC11939446
PMID: 40150759

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


3. Diagnostics (Basel). 2025 Mar 13;15(6):717. doi: 10.3390/diagnostics15060717.

Multi-Modal Fusion and Longitudinal Analysis for Alzheimer's Disease 
Classification Using Deep Learning.

Muksimova S(1), Umirzakova S(1), Baltayev J(2), Cho YI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Engineering, Gachon University, Sujeong-gu, 
Seongnam-si 461-701, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Information Systems and Technologies, Tashkent State University 
of Economics, Tashkent 100066, Uzbekistan.

Background: Addressing the complex diagnostic challenges of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), this study introduces FusionNet, a groundbreaking framework designed to 
enhance AD classification through the integration of multi-modal and 
longitudinal imaging data. Methods: FusionNet synthesizes inputs from Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging (MRI), Positron Emission Tomography (PET), and Computed 
Tomography (CT) scans, harnessing advanced machine learning strategies such as 
generative adversarial networks (GANs) for robust data augmentation, lightweight 
neural architectures for efficient computation, and deep metric learning for 
precise feature extraction. The model uniquely combines cross-sectional and 
temporal data, significantly enhancing diagnostic accuracy and enabling the 
early detection and ongoing monitoring of AD. The FusionNet architecture 
incorporates specialized feature extraction pathways for each imaging modality, 
a fusion layer to integrate diverse data sources effectively, and attention 
mechanisms to focus on salient diagnostic features. Results: Demonstrating 
superior performance, FusionNet achieves an accuracy of 94%, with precision and 
recall rates of 92% and 93%, respectively. Conclusions: These results underscore 
its potential as a highly reliable diagnostic tool for AD, facilitating early 
intervention and tailored treatment strategies. FusionNet's innovative approach 
not only improves diagnostic precision but also offers new insights into the 
progression of Alzheimer's disease, supporting personalized patient care and 
advancing our understanding of this debilitating condition.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics15060717
PMCID: PMC11941453
PMID: 40150060

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


4. Biomolecules. 2025 Mar 20;15(3):452. doi: 10.3390/biom15030452.

Neuroprotective Properties of Clove (Syzygium aromaticum): State of the Art and 
Future Pharmaceutical Applications for Alzheimer's Disease.

Sargsyan T(1)(2), Simonyan HM(2), Stepanyan L(1), Tsaturyan A(1)(2), Vicidomini 
C(3), Pastore R(4), Guerra G(4), Roviello GN(3).

Author information:
(1)Scientific and Production Center "Armbiotechnology" NAS RA, 14 Gyurjyan Str., 
Yerevan 0056, Armenia.
(2)Institute of Pharmacy, Yerevan State University, 1 Alex Manoogian Str., 
Yerevan 0025, Armenia.
(3)Institute of Biostructures and Bioimaging, Italian National Council for 
Research (IBB-CNR), Area di Ricerca Site and Headquarters, Via Pietro Castellino 
111, 80131 Naples, Italy.
(4)Department of Medicine and Health Sciences "Vincenzo Tiberio", University of 
Molise, Via F. De Santis, 86100 Campobasso, Italy.

This study explores the neuropharmacological potential of various molecular and 
amino acid components derived from Syzygium aromaticum (clove), an aromatic 
spice with a long history of culinary and medicinal use. Key bioactive compounds 
such as eugenol, α-humulene, β-caryophyllene, gallic acid, quercetin, and 
luteolin demonstrate antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective 
properties by scavenging free radicals, modulating calcium channels, and 
reducing neuroinflammation and oxidative stress. Moreover, gallic acid and 
asiatic acid may exhibit protective effects, including neuronal apoptosis 
inhibition, while other useful properties of clove phytocompounds include NF-κB 
pathway inhibition, membrane stabilization, and suppression of pro-inflammatory 
pathways, possibly in neurons or other relevant cell types, further contributing 
to neuroprotection and cognitive enhancement. Amino acid analysis revealed 
essential and non-essential amino acids such as aspartic acid, serine, glutamic 
acid, glycine, histidine, and arginine in various clove parts (buds, fruits, 
branches, and leaves). These amino acids play crucial roles in neurotransmitter 
synthesis, immune modulation, antioxidant defense, and metabolic regulation. 
Collectively, these bioactive molecules and amino acids contribute to clove's 
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, neurotrophic, and neurotransmitter-modulating 
effects, highlighting its potential as a preventive and therapeutic candidate 
for neurodegenerative disorders. While preliminary preclinical studies support 
these neuroprotective properties, further research, including clinical trials, 
is needed to validate the efficacy and safety of clove-based interventions in 
neuroprotection.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15030452
PMCID: PMC11940766
PMID: 40149988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


5. Biomolecules. 2025 Mar 15;15(3):418. doi: 10.3390/biom15030418.

Enhancing Membrane Repair Using Recombinant MG53/TRIM72 (rhMG53) Reduces 
Neurotoxicity in Alzheimer's Disease Models.

Bulgart HR(1), Lopez Perez MA(2), Weisleder N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry, University of Kentucky, 
Lexington, KY 40536, USA.
(2)Department of Physiology and Cell Biology, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH 43210, USA.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease that 
involves neuronal cell death initiated by the breakdown of the plasma membrane. 
Amyloid beta (Aβ), a hallmark protein that contributes to AD pathogenesis, is 
known to interact directly with the plasma membrane and induce increased 
intracellular calcium levels, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and cell death. Our 
recent studies revealed that elevated levels of Aβ42 induce a plasma membrane 
repair defect in neurons that compromises this conserved cellular response that 
would normally repair the disruption. Here, we tested if recombinant MG53/TRIM72 
protein (rhMG53), a therapeutic protein known to increase plasma membrane repair 
capacity, could enhance membrane repair in AD neurons. rhMG53 increased plasma 
membrane repair in ex vivo and in vitro tissue treated with Aβ42 or 
cerebrospinal fluid from AD patients, normalizing intracellular calcium levels, 
ROS, and cell death in treated cells. This study demonstrates that increasing 
plasma membrane repair can rescue neural cells from the neurotoxic effects of 
Aβ, indicating that elevating plasma membrane repair could be a viable 
therapeutic approach to reduce neuronal death in AD.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15030418
PMCID: PMC11940288
PMID: 40149954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: N.W. was a founder of TRIM-edicine, a company 
that licensed university-owned patents where N.W. was an inventor that relate to 
the use of MG53/TRIM72, in general, and rhMG53, in particular, in therapeutic 
approaches for several diseases.


6. Brain Sci. 2025 Mar 19;15(3):322. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15030322.

Murine Non-Transgenic Models of Alzheimer's Disease Pathology: Focus on Risk 
Factors.

Hernández-Rodríguez M(1), Vega López JM(2), Martínez-Rosas M(3), Nicolás-Vázquez 
MI(4), Mera Jiménez E(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Cultivo Celular, Neurofarmacología y Conducta, Escuela 
Superior de Medicina, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Plan de San Luis y Díaz 
Mirón s/n, Mexico City 11340, Mexico.
(2)Departamento de Química Inórgánica, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biológicas, 
Prolongación de Carpio y Plan de Ayala s/n, Mexico City 11340, Mexico.
(3)Departamento de Fisiología, Instituto Nacional de Cardiología Ignacio Chávez, 
Juan Badiano 1, Mexico City 14080, Mexico.
(4)Departamento de Ciencias Químicas, Facultad de Estudios Superiores 
Cuautitlán, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Cuautitlán Izcalli 54740, 
Mexico.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents a significant challenge among 
neurodegenerative disorders, as effective treatments and therapies remain 
largely undeveloped. Despite extensive research efforts employing various 
methodologies and diverse genetic models focused on amyloid-β (Aβ) pathology, 
the research for effective therapeutic strategies remains inconclusive. The key 
pathological features of AD include Aβ senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles 
(NFTs), and the activation of neuroinflammatory pathways. Presently, 
investigations into AD and assessing potential treatments predominantly utilize 
Aβ transgenic models. Conversely, non-transgenic models may provide valuable 
insights into the multifaceted pathological states associated with AD. Thus, 
these models may serve as practical complementary tools for evaluating 
therapeutic and intervention strategies, since the primary AD risk factors are 
most frequently modeled. This review aims to critically assess the existing 
literature on AD non-transgenic models induced by streptozotocin, scopolamine, 
aging, mechanical stress, metals, and dietary patterns to enhance their 
application in AD research.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15030322
PMCID: PMC11940003
PMID: 40149843

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


7. Brain Sci. 2025 Mar 11;15(3):294. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15030294.

Lactylation and Central Nervous System Diseases.

Chen Y(1)(2), Xiao D(1)(2), Li X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, West China Second University Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Birth Defects and Related Diseases of Women and Children, 
Sichuan University, Ministry of Education, Chengdu 610041, China.

As the final product of glycolysis, lactate serves as an energy substrate, 
metabolite, and signaling molecule in various diseases and mediates lactylation, 
an epigenetic modification that occurs under both physiological and pathological 
conditions. Lactylation is a crucial mechanism by which lactate exerts its 
functions, participating in vital biological activities such as 
glycolysis-related cellular functions, macrophage polarization, and nervous 
system regulation. Lactylation links metabolic regulation to central nervous 
system (CNS) diseases, such as traumatic brain injury, Alzheimer's disease, 
acute ischemic stroke, and schizophrenia, revealing the diverse functions of 
lactylation in the CNS. In the future, further exploration of 
lactylation-associated enzymes and proteins is needed to develop specific 
lactylation inhibitors or activators, which could provide new tools and 
strategies for the treatment of CNS diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15030294
PMCID: PMC11940311
PMID: 40149815

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


8. Brain Sci. 2025 Feb 27;15(3):252. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15030252.

Phytochemicals Targeting BDNF Signaling for Treating Neurological Disorders.

Singh AA(1), Katiyar S(2), Song M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan 38541, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Department of Botany, SBN Government PG College, Barwani 451551, MP, India.

Neurological disorders are defined by a deterioration or disruption of the 
nervous system's structure and function. These diseases, which include multiple 
sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and 
schizophrenia, are caused by intricate pathological processes that include 
excitotoxicity, neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, genetic mutations, and 
compromised neurotrophic signaling. Although current pharmaceutical treatments 
relieve symptoms, their long-term efficacy is limited due to adverse side 
effects and weak neuroprotective properties. However, when combined with other 
neuroprotective drugs or adjunct therapy, they may offer additional benefits and 
improve treatment outcomes. Phytochemicals have emerged as attractive 
therapeutic agents due to their ability to regulate essential neurotrophic 
pathways, especially the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling 
cascade. BDNF is an important target for neurodegenerative disease (ND) 
treatment since it regulates neuronal survival, synaptic plasticity, 
neurogenesis, and neuroprotection. This review emphasizes the molecular pathways 
through which various phytochemicals-such as flavonoids, terpenoids, alkaloids, 
and phenolic compounds-stimulate BDNF expression and modulate its downstream 
signaling pathways, including GSK-3β, MAPK/ERK, PI3K/Akt/mTOR, CREB, and 
Wnt/β-catenin. This paper also highlights how phytochemical combinations may 
interact to enhance BDNF activity, offering new therapeutic options for ND 
treatment. Despite their potential for neuroprotection, phytochemicals face 
challenges related to pharmacokinetics, blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, 
and absorption, highlighting the need for further research into combination 
therapies and improved formulations. Clinical assessment and mechanistic 
understanding of BDNF-targeted phytotherapy should be the main goals of future 
studies. The therapeutic efficacy of natural compounds in regulating 
neurotrophic signaling is highlighted in this review, providing a viable 
approach to the prevention and treatment of NDs.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15030252
PMCID: PMC11939912
PMID: 40149774

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


9. Brain Sci. 2025 Feb 25;15(3):245. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15030245.

Primary Progressive Aphasias: Diagnosis and Treatment.

Ortiz GG(1), González-Usigli H(2), Nava-Escobar ER(2), Ramírez-Jirano J(3), 
Mireles-Ramírez MA(2), Orozco-Barajas M(4), Becerra-Solano LE(4)(5), 
Sánchez-González VJ(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophical and Methodological Disciplines, and Molecular 
Biology Service in Medicine HC, University Health Sciences Center, University of 
Guadalajara, Guadalajara 44340, Jalisco, Mexico.
(2)Department of Neurology, Sub-Specialty Medical Unit, Western National Medical 
Center, Mexican Institute of Social Security, Guadalajara 44329, Jalisco, 
Mexico.
(3)Neurosciences Division, Western Biomedical Research Center, Mexican Social 
Security Institute (IMSS), Guadalajara 44340, Jalisco, Mexico.
(4)PhD Program on Biosciences, Health Department, Centro Universitario de Los 
Altos, University of Guadalajara, Tepatitlán de Morelos 47620, Jalisco, Mexico.
(5)Clinical Department, Centro Universitario de Los Altos, University of 
Guadalajara, Tepatitlán de Morelos 47620, Jalisco, Mexico.

Background and Objective: Primary Progressive Aphasias (PPAs) are rare 
neurodegenerative disorders classified within frontotemporal lobar degeneration 
(FTLD) and typically manifest between 45 and 70 years of age. In Mexico-and many 
other countries-reliable epidemiological data are lacking; however, estimates 
suggest that PPA accounts for 0.5-2.5% of neurodegenerative disease cases in 
Memory Clinics, with an incidence of approximately 1 per 100,000 and an average 
survival of 8 years. This review aims to provide clinicians with an overview of 
PPA's epidemiology, clinical features, and classification, thereby enhancing 
understanding of its subtypes and distinguishing characteristics from other 
aphasic conditions, such as vascular aphasia. Methods: This narrative review was 
conducted through a literature search using databases such as PubMed and Scopus. 
Relevant studies addressing the epidemiology, clinical presentation, and 
classification of PPA were identified, selected, and synthesized to offer a 
broad, clinically oriented overview of the condition. This approach was chosen 
to inform clinical practice and highlight the need for further targeted 
investigations, such as future systematic reviews focusing on specific aspects 
like therapeutic strategies. Key Contents and Findings: (a) Epidemiology: PPA is 
estimated to affect 0.5-2.5% of patients with neurodegenerative diseases in 
Memory Clinics, with an incidence of roughly 1 per 100,000. Average survival 
time is around 8 years (ranging from 3 to 17 years), with a generally balanced 
gender ratio, though some studies indicate a predominance of men. A positive 
family history is observed in 20-40% of cases, with about 10% following an 
autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. (b) Clinical Characteristics and 
Classification: PPA is marked by a gradual decline in language abilities, 
differentiating it from vascular aphasias. Subtypes include non-fluent forms 
(non-fluent progressive aphasia [nfPPA] and logopenic progressive aphasia 
[lPPA]), fluent forms (progressive fluent aphasia [PFA] and semantic dementia 
[SD]), and mixed forms (progressive mixed aphasia [PMA]). The neurodegenerative 
process in PPA extends beyond vascular boundaries, often resulting in 
presentations that deviate from classical Broca's and Wernicke's aphasias. 
Common symptoms include difficulties in word finding and naming, sometimes 
mistaken for memory loss, and, in the case of semantic dementia, personality 
changes that may go unnoticed by the patient. Conclusions: PPA is a 
heterogeneous and complex group of neurodegenerative disorders with significant 
clinical variability and a profound impact on patients and their families. While 
current epidemiological data are limited, this review emphasizes the need for 
further research to better delineate disease progression and refine diagnostic 
and therapeutic approaches. Future systematic reviews will be essential to 
address specific aspects of PPA, such as treatment strategies, to further 
improve patient care.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15030245
PMCID: PMC11939976
PMID: 40149767

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


10. Biomedicines. 2025 Mar 1;13(3):603. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13030603.

Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy: Clinical Presentation, Sequelae and Neuroimaging 
Features-An Update.

Weidauer S(1), Hattingen E(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroradiology, Goethe University, Schleusenweg 2-16, 60528 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

The prevalence of cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) has been shown to increase 
with age, with rates reported to be around 50-60% in individuals over 80 years 
old who have cognitive impairment. The disease often presents as spontaneous 
lobar intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), which carries a high risk of recurrence, 
along with transient focal neurologic episodes (TFNE) and progressive cognitive 
decline, potentially leading to Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition to ICH, 
neuroradiologic findings of CAA include cortical and subcortical microbleeds 
(MB), cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage (cSAH) and cortical superficial siderosis 
(cSS). Non-hemorrhagic pathologies include dilated perivascular spaces in the 
centrum semiovale and multiple hyperintense lesions on T2-weighted magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI). A definitive diagnosis of CAA still requires 
histological confirmation. The Boston criteria allow for the diagnosis of a 
probable or possible CAA by considering specific neurological and MRI findings. 
The recent version, 2.0, which includes additional non-hemorrhagic MRI findings, 
increases sensitivity while maintaining the same specificity. The characteristic 
MRI findings of autoantibody-related CAA-related inflammation (CAA-ri) are 
similar to the so-called "amyloid related imaging abnormalities" (ARIA) observed 
with amyloid antibody therapies, presenting in two variants: (a) vasogenic edema 
and leptomeningeal effusions (ARIA-E) and (b) hemorrhagic lesions (ARIA-H). 
Clinical and MRI findings enable the diagnosis of a probable or possible CAA-ri, 
with biopsy remaining the gold standard for confirmation. In contrast to 
spontaneous CAA-ri, only about 20% of patients treated with monoclonal 
antibodies who show proven ARIA on MRI also experience clinical symptoms, 
including headache, confusion, other psychopathological abnormalities, visual 
disturbances, nausea and vomiting. Recent findings indicate that treatment 
should be continued in cases of mild ARIA, with ongoing MRI and clinical 
monitoring. This review offers a concise update on CAA and its associated 
consequences.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13030603
PMCID: PMC11939913
PMID: 40149580

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


11. Biomedicines. 2025 Feb 25;13(3):572. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13030572.

Applying Wearable Sensors and Machine Learning to the Diagnostic Challenge of 
Distinguishing Parkinson's Disease from Other Forms of Parkinsonism.

Khalil RM(1), Shulman LM(2), Gruber-Baldini AL(3), Reich SG(2), Savitt JM(2), 
Hausdorff JM(4)(5)(6)(7)(8), Coelln RV(2), Cummings MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, University of Maryland, 
College Park, MD 20742, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21201, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Maryland School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA.
(4)Center for the Study of Movement, Cognition, and Mobility, Neurological 
Institute, Tel Aviv Medical Center, Tel Aviv 6492416, Israel.
(5)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences, Tel 
Aviv University, Tel Aviv 6997801, Israel.
(6)Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 6997801, Israel.
(7)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
60612, USA.
(8)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
60612, USA.

Background/Objectives: Parkinson's Disease (PD) and other forms of parkinsonism 
share motor symptoms, including tremor, bradykinesia, and rigidity. The overlap 
in their clinical presentation creates a diagnostic challenge, as conventional 
methods rely heavily on clinical expertise, which can be subjective and 
inconsistent. This highlights the need for objective, data-driven approaches 
such as machine learning (ML) in this area. However, applying ML to clinical 
datasets faces challenges such as imbalanced class distributions, small sample 
sizes for non-PD parkinsonism, and heterogeneity within the non-PD group. 
Methods: This study analyzed wearable sensor data from 260 PD participants and 
18 individuals with etiologically diverse forms of non-PD parkinsonism, which 
were collected during clinical mobility tasks using a single sensor placed on 
the lower back. We evaluated the performance of ML models in distinguishing 
these two groups and identified the most informative mobility tasks for 
classification. Additionally, we examined the clinical characteristics of 
misclassified participants and presented case studies of common challenges in 
clinical practice, including diagnostic uncertainty at the patient's initial 
visit and changes in diagnosis over time. We also suggested potential steps to 
address the dataset challenges which limited the models' performance. Results: 
Feature importance analysis revealed the Timed Up and Go (TUG) task as the most 
informative for classification. When using the TUG test alone, the models' 
performance exceeded that of combining all tasks, achieving a balanced accuracy 
of 78.2%, which is within 0.2% of the balanced diagnostic accuracy of movement 
disorder experts. We also identified differences in some clinical scores between 
the participants correctly and falsely classified by our models. Conclusions: 
These findings demonstrate the feasibility of using ML and wearable sensors for 
differentiating PD from other parkinsonian disorders, addressing key challenges 
in its diagnosis and streamlining diagnostic workflows.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13030572
PMCID: PMC11940150
PMID: 40149549

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


12. Genes (Basel). 2025 Mar 17;16(3):345. doi: 10.3390/genes16030345.

Clinical Significance of Early-Onset Alzheimer's Mutations in Asian and Western 
Populations: A Scoping Review.

Poniah P(1)(2), Abdul Rashed A(3), Abdul Jalil J(1), Ali EZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Inborn Errors of Metabolism and Genetics Unit, Nutrition, Metabolic and 
Cardiovascular Research Centre, Institute for Medical Research, National 
Institutes of Health, Ministry of Health Malaysia, Setia Alam 41700, Selangor, 
Malaysia.
(2)Clinical Research Centre, Hospital Raja Permaisuri Bainun, Institute for 
Clinical Research, National Institutes of Health, Ministry of Health Malaysia, 
Ipoh 30450, Perak, Malaysia.
(3)Nutrition Unit, Nutrition, Metabolic and Cardiovascular Research Centre, 
Institute for Medical Research, National Institutes of Health, Ministry of 
Health Malaysia, Shah Alam 41700, Selangor, Malaysia.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Background: Early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) is 
primarily inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, with mutations in the APP, 
PSEN1, and PSEN2 genes being central contributors. Diagnosing Alzheimer's poses 
challenges due to the coexistence of various co-pathologies, and treatment 
options remain limited for most patients, apart from familial cases linked to 
specific genetic mutations. While significant research on Alzheimer's genetics 
has been conducted in both Asian and Caucasian populations, the specific 
mutations and their clinical impacts in EOAD are still inadequately explored. 
This review aims to provide a detailed analysis of commonly reported genetic 
mutations and associated clinical features in EOAD patients from Asian and 
Western populations.
METHODS: Following the PRISMA-ScR guidelines, a systematic database search was 
conducted for studies published between 2016 and 2023. After screening 491 
records, 36 studies from Asian cohorts and 40 from Western cohorts met the 
inclusion criteria.
RESULTS: The analysis revealed 127 unique mutations in the Asian population and 
190 in the Western population. About 16.7% of Asian and 21.9% of Western studies 
covered both familial and sporadic AD, with consistent patterns across groups. 
Some mutations were shared between the populations and displayed similar 
clinical features, while others were population-specific.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings underscore the considerable variability in EOAD 
mutations and phenotypes, emphasizing the importance of genetic testing in 
younger patients to enhance diagnostic accuracy and guide treatment strategies 
effectively.

DOI: 10.3390/genes16030345
PMCID: PMC11942072
PMID: 40149496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


13. Genes (Basel). 2025 Mar 12;16(3):331. doi: 10.3390/genes16030331.

Curious Dichotomies of Apolipoprotein E Function in Alzheimer's Disease and 
Cancer-One Explanatory Mechanism of Inverse Disease Associations?

Perks CM(1), Barker RM(1), Alhadrami M(1), Alkahtani O(1), Gill E(1), Grishaw 
M(2), Harland AJ(1), Henley P(2), Li H(1), O'Sullivan E(2), Stone G(2), Su X(1), 
Kehoe PG(2).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Endocrinology Group, Bristol Medical School, Learning & Research 
Building, Level 2, Southmead Hospital, Bristol BS10 5NB, UK.
(2)Cerebrovascular and Dementia Research Group, Bristol Medical School, Learning 
& Research Building, Level 2, Southmead Hospital, Bristol BS10 5NB, UK.

An apparent "inverse" relationship exists between two seemingly unconnected 
conditions, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cancer, despite sharing similar risk 
factors, like increased age and obesity. AD is associated with amyloid beta (Aβ) 
plaques and neurofibrillary tau tangles that cause neural degeneration; cancer, 
in contrast, is characterized by enhanced cell survival and proliferation. 
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) is the main lipoprotein found in the central nervous 
system and via its high affinity with lipoprotein receptors plays a critical 
role in cholesterol transport and uptake. ApoE has 3 protein isoforms, ApoE E2, 
ApoE E3, and ApoE E4, respectively encoded for by 3 allelic variants of APOE 
(ε2, ε3, and ε4). This review examines the characteristics and function of ApoE 
described in both AD and cancer to assimilate evidence for its potential 
contribution to mechanisms that may underly the reported inverse association 
between the two conditions. Of the genetic risk factors relevant to most cases 
of AD, the most well-known with the strongest contribution to risk is APOE, 
specifically the ε4 variant, whereas for cancer risk, APOE has not featured as a 
significant genetic contributor to risk. However, at the protein level in both 
conditions, ApoE contributes to disease pathology via affecting lipid physiology 
and transport. In AD, Aβ-dependent and -independent interactions have been 
suggested, whereas in cancer, ApoE plays a role in immunoregulation. 
Understanding the mechanism of action of ApoE in these diametrically opposed 
diseases may enable differential targeting of therapeutics to provide a 
beneficial outcome for both.

DOI: 10.3390/genes16030331
PMCID: PMC11942319
PMID: 40149482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


14. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Mar 27;20(1):37. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00825-0.

Decoding microglial immunometabolism: a new frontier in Alzheimer's disease 
research.

Jung ES(1), Choi H(1), Mook-Jung I(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Convergence Dementia Research Center, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Convergence Dementia Research Center, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. inhee@snu.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. inhee@snu.ac.kr.
(4)Korea Dementia Research Center, Seoul, South Korea. inhee@snu.ac.kr.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves a dynamic interaction between 
neuroinflammation and metabolic dysregulation, where microglia play a central 
role. These immune cells undergo metabolic reprogramming in response to 
AD-related pathology, with key genes such as TREM2, APOE, and HIF-1α 
orchestrating these processes. Microglial metabolism adapts to environmental 
stimuli, shifting between oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis. Hexokinase-2 
facilitates glycolytic flux, while AMPK acts as an energy sensor, coordinating 
lipid and glucose metabolism. TREM2 and APOE regulate microglial lipid 
homeostasis, influencing Aβ clearance and immune responses. LPL and ABCA7, both 
associated with AD risk, modulate lipid processing and cholesterol transport, 
linking lipid metabolism to neurodegeneration. PPARG further supports lipid 
metabolism by regulating microglial inflammatory responses. Amino acid 
metabolism also contributes to microglial function. Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 
controls the kynurenine pathway, producing neurotoxic metabolites linked to AD 
pathology. Additionally, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase regulates the pentose 
phosphate pathway, maintaining redox balance and immune activation. Dysregulated 
glucose and lipid metabolism, influenced by genetic variants such as APOE4, 
impair microglial responses and exacerbate AD progression. Recent findings 
highlight the interplay between metabolic regulators like REV-ERBα, which 
modulates lipid metabolism and inflammation, and Syk, which influences immune 
responses and Aβ clearance. These insights offer promising therapeutic targets, 
including strategies aimed at HIF-1α modulation, which could restore microglial 
function depending on disease stage. By integrating metabolic, immune, and 
genetic factors, this review underscores the importance of microglial 
immunometabolism in AD. Targeting key metabolic pathways could provide novel 
therapeutic strategies for mitigating neuroinflammation and restoring microglial 
function, ultimately paving the way for innovative treatments in 
neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00825-0
PMCID: PMC11948825
PMID: 40149001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.


15. BMC Complement Med Ther. 2025 Mar 27;25(1):116. doi:
10.1186/s12906-024-04715-8.

Teucrium Polium ameliorates amyloid β-induced brain network disorders in rats: 
electrophysiological and behavioral studies.

Simonyan K(1), Darbinyan L(2), Hambardzumyan L(3), Manukyan L(3), Chavushyan 
V(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuroendocrine Relationships Lab, Orbeli Institute of Physiology NAS RA, 
Yerevan, 0028, Armenia.
(2)Sensorimotor Integration Lab, Orbeli Institute of Physiology NAS RA, Yerevan, 
0028, Armenia. lilitdarbinyan@physiol.sci.am.
(3)Sensorimotor Integration Lab, Orbeli Institute of Physiology NAS RA, Yerevan, 
0028, Armenia.

Synaptic failure in specific cholinergic networks in rat brains has been 
implicated in amyloid β-induced neurodegeneration. Teucrium polium is a 
promising candidate for drug development against Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
similar disorders. However, the protective effect of Teucrium polium against 
amyloid β-induced impairment of short-term synaptic plasticity is still poorly 
understood. In this study, we used in vivo extracellular single-unit recordings 
to investigate the preventive efficacy of Teucrium polium on Aβ(25-35)-induced 
aberrant neuronal activity in the hippocampus and basolateral amygdala of rats, 
in response to high-frequency stimulation of the cholinergic nucleus basalis 
magnocellularis (NBM). After 12 weeks of intracerebroventricular administration 
of Aβ(25-35), alterations such as decreased excitatory responses and increased 
inhibitory synaptic activity were observed in the NBM-hippocampus and 
NBM-basolateral amygdala cholinergic circuits. Treatment with Teucrium polium 
improved the balance of excitatory and inhibitory responses by modulating 
synaptic transmission strength and restoring short-term plasticity. Acute 
injection of a therapeutic dose of Teucrium temporarily inhibited spiking 
activity in single NBM neurons. Open field tests revealed that amyloid-injected 
rats displayed anxiety and reduced exploratory drive. Treatment with Teucrium 
polium improved these behaviors, reducing anxiety and increasing exploration. 
Teucrium polium mitigated amyloid β-induced alterations in cholinergic circuits 
by enhancing the adaptive capacity of short-term synaptic plasticity. These 
findings suggest that Teucrium polium could serve as a preventive strategy to 
delay the progression of cholinergic neurodegeneration.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-024-04715-8
PMCID: PMC11948851
PMID: 40148951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Ethics declarations. Ethics approval and consent 
to participate: All animal procedures were performed under the supervision of 
the institutional ethics committee of Yerevan State Medical University after 
Mkhitar Heratsi, Yerevan, Armenia (approved code: N4 IRB). The ARRIVE guidelines 
for the care and use of laboratory animals were also followed. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests. Conflict of interest: 
There are no actual or potential competing interest.


16. Commun Biol. 2025 Mar 27;8(1):502. doi: 10.1038/s42003-025-07941-z.

A personalized metabolic modelling approach through integrated analysis of 
RNA-Seq-based genomic variants and gene expression levels in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Uzuner Odongo D(1), İlgün A(1), Bozkurt FB(1), Çakır T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Gebze Technical University, Gebze, Kocaeli, 
Turkey.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Gebze Technical University, Gebze, Kocaeli, 
Turkey. tcakir@gtu.edu.tr.

Generating condition-specific metabolic models by mapping gene expression data 
to genome-scale metabolic models (GEMs) is a routine approach to elucidate 
disease mechanisms from a metabolic perspective. On the other hand, integrating 
variants that perturb enzyme functionality from the same RNA-seq data may 
enhance GEM accuracy, offering insights into genome-wide metabolic pathology. 
Our study pioneers the extraction of both transcriptomic and genomic data from 
the same RNA-seq data to reconstruct personalized metabolic models. We map genes 
with significantly higher load of pathogenic variants in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) onto a human GEM together with the gene expression data. Comparative 
analysis of the resulting personalized patient metabolic models with the control 
models shows enhanced accuracy in detecting AD-associated metabolic pathways 
compared to the case where only expression data is mapped on the GEM. Besides, 
several otherwise would-be missed pathways are annotated in AD by considering 
the effect of genomic variants.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s42003-025-07941-z
PMCID: PMC11950204
PMID: 40148444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


17. Sci Rep. 2025 Mar 27;15(1):10632. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-89980-4.

Construction and evaluation of a diagnostic model for Alzheimer's disease based 
on mitophagy-related genes.

Liu J(#)(1), Yan M(#)(2), Chen L(3), Yu W(4), Lü Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, 400016, China. liujiarui66666@163.com.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, 
China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, 400016, China.
(4)Institute of Neuroscience, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, 
China. yuweihua@cqmu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, 400016, China. yanglyu@hospital.cqmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. Mitophagy 
fulfills crucial functions in neurodegenerative disorders and neuronal survival 
but the relationship between mitophagy and AD is unclear. Mitophagy correlation 
scores between AD samples and control samples were calculated using 
single-sample GSEA (ssGSEA) based on two datasets from gene expression omnibus 
(GEO) database. Mitophagy-related genes (MRGs) and differentially expressed 
genes (DEGs) in AD screened by WGCNA and "limma" package were intersected to 
take common genes. These overlapping genes were further compressed and used for 
diagnostic modeling by adopting the recursive feature elimination (RFE) and 
LASSO analysis. The reliability of the diagnostic model was verified based on 
the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. Then, a transcription factor 
(TF)-mRNA regulatory network of these key genes was established. Lastly, ssGSEA 
was employed to examine the relationship between the identified genes and 
cellular pathways and immune cell infiltration. AD samples had notably lower 
mitophagy correlation scores than control samples. A total of 12 MRGs in the 
module with the greatest mitophagy connection with AD patients were identified. 
Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the DEGs were significantly 
enriched in synaptic function-related pathways. Based on GSE122063, a diagnostic 
prediction model was created and validated using two mitophagy-related genes 
(YWHAZ and NDE1), showing an area under ROC curve (AUC) greater than 0.7. This 
confirmed that the diagnostic model had a high predictive value. The TF-mRNA 
network showed that four TFs, namely, FOXC1, FOXL1, HOXA5 and GATA2, were 
regulated by both YWHAZ and NDE1 genes. Immune infiltration analysis revealed 
that NDE1 promoted the infiltration of most immune cells, while YWHAZ mainly 
inhibited the infiltration of most immune cells. The current findings improved 
our understanding of mitophagy in AD, contributing to future research and 
treatment development in AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-89980-4
PMCID: PMC11950216
PMID: 40148430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


18. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Apr;40(4):e70066. doi: 10.1002/gps.70066.

Identifying and Addressing Unmet Needs in Dementia: The Role of Care Access and 
Psychosocial Support.

Scharf A(1), Michalowsky B(1), Rädke A(1), Kleinke F(2), Schade S(2), Platen 
M(1), Buchholz M(1), Pfaff M(1), Iskandar A(1), van den Berg N(2), Hoffmann 
W(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Zentum für Neurodegenerative Erkrankungen (DZNE), 
Rostock/Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(2)Section Epidemiology of Health Care and Community Health, Institute for 
Community Medicine, University Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: People with dementia often have various unmet care needs across 
physical, psychological, environmental, and social domains. There's a need to 
explore the association between domains of unmet needs and characteristics of 
people with dementia. The aim of this paper was to describe the domains of unmet 
and met needs among community-dwelling people living with dementia, focusing on 
the home environment, physical, psychological, and social areas, and to identify 
sociodemographic, clinical, and health-related parameters associated with unmet 
needs.
METHODS: We analyzed the InDePendent trial's baseline data of N = 417 people 
with dementia. The Camberwell Assessment of Needs for the Elderly (CANE) was 
used to identify needs. Descriptive statistics were used to evaluate the 
distribution of needs and Logistic and Poisson regression models to detect 
sociodemographic and clinical factors associated with unmet needs in the four 
need domains.
RESULTS: People with dementia were on average 80.6 years old, mostly female 
(56%) and mildly to moderately cognitively impaired (85%). 98.6% of the 
participants had at least one need, of which just over a third (36.5%) were 
rated as met and just under two-thirds (63.5%) as unmet. Lacking a care grade 
(access to social care) and low education were found to be risk factors for the 
occurrence of unmet needs in almost all areas. Factors such as increased 
medication use (OR = 1.10 [95%CI 1.02 to 1.19]) and loneliness (OR = 2.51 [95%CI 
1.44 to 4.36]) were associated with a higher likelihood of unmet environmental 
needs. Similarly, the absence of a caregiver (OR = 2.81 [95%CI 1.03 to 7.64]), 
lower social support (OR = 1.71 [95%CI 1.02 to 2.84]), and poor physical health 
(OR = 8.40 [95%CI 3.39 to 20.81]) correlated with unmet physical needs. 
Participants living alone demonstrated higher levels of unmet physical needs 
(β = 0.27 [95%CI 0.01 to 0.53]). Depression (OR = 2.13 [95%CI 1.10 to 4.08]), 
living alone (OR = 1.73 [95%CI 1.04 to 2.86]) and poor physical health 
(OR = 2.82 [95%CI 1.15 to 6.93]) significantly increased the risk of unmet 
psychological needs. Social needs are more likely to be unmet in females 
(OR = 1.88 [95%CI 1.05 to 3.37]). Sensitivity analyses showed the positive 
effects of regular General Practitioner (GP) visits on the fulfillment of social 
needs (β = -0.61 [95%CI -1.01 to -0.22]).
CONCLUSION: Access to comprehensive care, for example, through a care grade, 
education and regular visits to the GP, is just as important for meeting needs 
in various areas as psychosocial measures aimed at reducing loneliness, living 
alone, and social exclusion. Both areas must be given equal consideration to 
improve the living and care situation of people with dementia sustainably.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study is registered as a clinical trial 
(ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04741932). The study protocol is published 
elsewhere.

© 2025 The Author(s). International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.70066
PMCID: PMC11949772
PMID: 40148225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


19. Cancer Res Treat. 2025 Mar 27. doi: 10.4143/crt.2024.901. Online ahead of
print.

Association of Physical Activity with Dementia Risk in Cancer Survivors: A 
Korean Nationwide Cohort Study.

Lee SK(1), Han M(2), Park S(3), Park SJ(3), Song J(3), Kim HJ(3), Kim J(3), Lee 
H(3), Shin HY(4), Kim KH(5), Park SM(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Environment Graduate School of Public Health, Seoul 
National University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Health Science and Technology, Graduate School of Convergence 
Science and Technology, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University Graduate School, 
Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Family Medicine, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of 
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Family Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, 
Korea.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to investigate the impact of physical activity on 
dementia risk among cancer survivors in South Korea.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective, population-based cohort study 
included 344,152 cancer survivors identified from the National Health Insurance 
Service database in South Korea. The mean follow-up time was 5.81 years. 
Different levels of physical activity post-cancer diagnosis, ranging from 
inactive to highly active, were assessed. The primary outcome was the incidence 
of overall dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), and vascular dementia (VaD). 
Secondary outcomes included dementia risk stratified by cancer type and 
treatment (chemotherapy and radiation).
RESULTS: Of the total participants, 24,363 (7.08%) developed dementia. The risk 
of overall dementia decreased sequentially across the exercise groups compared 
to the inactive group: insufficiently active (adjusted HR, 0.89; 95% CI, 
0.86-0.92), active (adjusted HR, 0.85; 95% CI, 0.83-0.88), and highly active 
(adjusted HR, 0.79; 95% CI, 0.76-0.82). This inverse relationship between 
exercise and dementia risk was statistically significant across various cancer 
types and was consistent regardless of age, comorbidities, and whether or not 
excluding the first 1, 2 years.
CONCLUSION: Among cancer survivors in South Korea, increased physical activity 
post-diagnosis was associated with a significantly lower risk of dementia. These 
findings underscore the importance of promoting physical activity in cancer 
survivors for cognitive health.

DOI: 10.4143/crt.2024.901
PMID: 40147827


20. Clin Nutr ESPEN. 2025 Jun;67:555-566. doi: 10.1016/j.clnesp.2025.03.040. Epub
 2025 Mar 25.

Nutritional interventions for preventing cognitive decline in patients with mild 
cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: A comprehensive network 
meta-analysis and Mendelian Randomization study.

He Q(1), Bennett AN(1), Zhang C(1), Zhang JY(1), Tong S(1), Chan KHK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region of China.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region of China; Department of Electrical Engineering, 
City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China; 
Department of Epidemiology, Centre for Global Cardiometabolic Health, Brown 
University, RI, USA. Electronic address: kkhchan@cityu.edu.hk.

BACKGROUND: As the population ages rapidly, cognitive impairment, especially in 
conditions like Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 
has become a crucial public health issue. Nutritional interventions have 
garnered attention as a promising non-pharmacological strategy for maintaining 
cognitive function and decelerating its decline.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of various nutritional 
interventions in preventing cognitive impairment and elucidate intricate 
biological pathways linking nutritional interventions to cognitive function 
through a comprehensive approach involving systematic review, network 
meta-analysis (NMA), and Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis.
METHODS: We utilized pair-wise comparisons and NMA to evaluate the efficacy of 
different nutritional interventions on cognitive function in patients with 
decreased cognitive abilities. A systematic search in three biomedical databases 
was performed for double-blinded, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) or 
head-to-head comparisons up to December 31, 2024. The NMA has been registered at 
the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO; 
CRD42022331173). Moreover, to clarify the biological mechanisms linking 
nutritional interventions to cognitive impairment, we conducted two-sample MR 
analyses to assess the potential causal relationships between 9 genetically 
predicted nutrient levels derived from extensive genome-wide association studies 
(GWASs) and 12 biomarkers linked to brain aging.
RESULTS: This study encompassed 52 trials with 8452 participants, 9 GWASs 
examining genetically predicted nutrient levels with a total of 603,996 
participants, and 12 GWASs investigating brain aging biomarkers with a total of 
2,405,530 participants. The NMA demonstrated that the multi-ingredient 
intervention outperformed other interventions significantly (standardized mean 
difference [SMD] = 2.03; 95 % credible interval [95 % CrI] = 0.97-3.09, P = 
0.0002). In the MR analysis, the findings indicated that the multi-ingredient 
intervention was linked to reduced C-reactive protein (CRP) levels (odds ratios 
[OR] = 0.96, 95 % confidence interval [95 % CI] = 0.93-0.99, P = 0.014), 
suggesting that the multi-ingredient intervention may mitigate cognitive 
impairment by reducing inflammation.
CONCLUSIONS: Our NMA amalgamated evidence underscoring multi-ingredient 
interventions as the most efficacious strategy for attenuating cognitive decline 
in individuals with MCI and AD. Furthermore, the MR analysis unveiled the 
mechanisms underpinning the protective effects of multi-ingredient 
interventions, potentially offering benefits even in the early stages of 
neurodegeneration by mitigating oxidative stress and inflammation.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnesp.2025.03.040
PMID: 40147763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


21. Exp Cell Res. 2025 Apr 15;447(2):114537. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2025.114537.
Epub  2025 Mar 25.

Flavonoids in the regulation of microglial-mediated neuroinflammation; focus on 
fisetin, rutin, and quercetin.

Jasim MH(1), Saadoon Abbood R(2), Sanghvi G(3), Roopashree R(4), Uthirapathy 
S(5), Kashyap A(6), Sabarivani A(7), Ray S(8), Mustafa YF(9), Yasin HA(10).

Author information:
(1)Biology Department, College of Education, University of Fallujah, Fallujah, 
Iraq. Electronic address: muhaned.h.jassem@uofallujah.edu.iq.
(2)Medical Laboratory Techniques Department, College of Health and Medical 
Technology, University of Al-maarif, Anbar, Iraq. Electronic address: 
rosullsaadoonabbood@gmail.com.
(3)Marwadi University Research Center, Department of Microbiology, Faculty of 
Science, Marwadi University, Rajkot, 360003, Gujarat, India. Electronic address: 
gaurav.sanghvi@marwadieducation.edu.in.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, School of Sciences, JAIN (Deemed to 
be University), Bangalore, Karnataka, India. Electronic address: 
r.roopashree@jainuniversity.ac.in.
(5)Pharmacy Department, Tishk International University, Erbil, Kurdistan Region, 
Iraq. Electronic address: subasini.uthirapathy@tiu.edu.iq.
(6)Centre for Research Impact & Outcome, Chitkara University Institute of 
Engineering and Technology, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, India. 
Electronic address: aditya_kashyap2024@outlook.com.
(7)Department of Biomedical, Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology, 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. Electronic address: sabari.eni@sathyabama.ac.in.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, IMS and SUM Hospital, Siksha 'O' Anusandhan 
(Deemed to be University), Bhubaneswar, Odisha, 751003, India. Electronic 
address: subhashreeray@soa.ac.in.
(9)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, University of 
Mosul, Mosul, 41001, Iraq. Electronic address: dr.yassermustafa@uomosul.edu.iq.
(10)Department of Medical Laboratories Technology, Al-Nisour University College, 
Nisour Seq. Karkh, Baghdad, Iraq. Electronic address: hatef.a.phar@nuc.edu.iq.

Neuroinflammation is a critical mechanism in central nervous system (CNS) 
inflammatory disorders, encompassing conditions such as Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), multiple sclerosis 
(MS), traumatic brain injury (TBI), encephalitis, spinal cord injury (SCI), and 
cerebral stroke. Neuroinflammation is characterized by increased blood vessel 
permeability, leukocyte infiltration, glial cell activation, and elevated 
production of inflammatory mediators, such as chemokines and cytokines. 
Microglia act as the resident macrophages of the central nervous system, serving 
as the principal defense mechanism in brain tissue. After CNS injury, microglia 
modify their morphology and downregulate genes that promote homeostatic 
functions. Despite comprehensive transcriptome analyses revealing specific gene 
modifications in "pathological" microglia, microglia's precise protective or 
harmful functions in neurological disorders remain insufficiently comprehended. 
Accumulating data suggests that the polarization of microglia into the M1 
proinflammatory phenotype or the M2 antiinflammatory phenotype may serve as a 
sensible therapeutic strategy for neuroinflammation. Flavonoids, including 
rutin, fisetin, and quercetin, function as crucial chemical reservoirs with 
unique structures and diverse actions and are extensively used to modulate 
microglial polarization in treating neuroinflammation. This paper highlights the 
detrimental effects of neuroinflammation seen in neurological disorders such as 
stroke. Furthermore, we investigate their therapeutic benefits in alleviating 
neuroinflammation via the modulation of macrophage polarization.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2025.114537
PMID: 40147710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


22. Chem Biol Interact. 2025 May 25;413:111489. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111489.
Epub  2025 Mar 25.

Flavonoids and their role in oxidative stress, inflammation, and human diseases.

Jomova K(1), Alomar SY(2), Valko R(2), Liska J(3), Nepovimova E(4), Kuca K(5), 
Valko M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Natural Sciences, Constantine the 
Philosopher University in Nitra, Nitra, 949 74, Slovakia.
(2)Zoology Department, College of Science, King Saud University, 11451, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.
(3)Institute of Histology and Embryology, Faculty of Medicine, Comenius 
University, 811 08, Bratislava, Slovakia.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, University of Hradec Kralove, 
50003, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic; Center of Advanced Innovation 
Technologies, VSB-Technical University of Ostrava, Ostrava-Poruba, 708 00, Czech 
Republic.
(5)Center of Advanced Innovation Technologies, VSB-Technical University of 
Ostrava, Ostrava-Poruba, 708 00, Czech Republic; Biomedical Research Center, 
University Hospital Hradec Kralove, 5005, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(6)Faculty of Chemical and Food Technology, Slovak University of Technology, 812 
37, Bratislava, Slovakia. Electronic address: marian.valko@stuba.sk.

Oxidative stress and chronic inflammation are important drivers in the 
pathogenesis and progression of many chronic diseases, such as cancers of the 
breast, kidney, lung, and others, autoimmune diseases (rheumatoid arthritis), 
cardiovascular diseases (hypertension, atherosclerosis, arrhythmia), 
neurodegenerative diseases (Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
Huntington's disease), mental disorders (depression, schizophrenia, bipolar 
disorder), gastrointestinal disorders (inflammatory bowel disease, colorectal 
cancer), and other disorders. With the increasing demand for less toxic and more 
tolerable therapies, flavonoids have the potential to effectively modulate the 
responsiveness to conventional therapy and radiotherapy. Flavonoids are 
polyphenolic compounds found in fruits, vegetables, grains, and plant-derived 
beverages. Six of the twelve structurally different flavonoid subgroups are of 
dietary significance and include anthocyanidins (e.g. pelargonidin, cyanidin), 
flavan-3-ols (e.g. epicatechin, epigallocatechin), flavonols (e.g. quercetin, 
kaempferol), flavones (e.g. luteolin, baicalein), flavanones (e.g. hesperetin, 
naringenin), and isoflavones (daidzein, genistein). The health benefits of 
flavonoids are related to their structural characteristics, such as the number 
and position of hydroxyl groups and the presence of C2C3 double bonds, which 
predetermine their ability to chelate metal ions, terminate ROS (e.g. hydroxyl 
radicals formed by the Fenton reaction), and interact with biological targets to 
trigger a biological response. Based on these structural characteristics, 
flavonoids can exert both antioxidant or prooxidant properties, modulate the 
activity of ROS-scavenging enzymes and the expression and activation of 
proinflammatory cytokines (e.g., interleukin-1beta (IL-1β), interleukin-6 
(IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α)), induce apoptosis and 
autophagy, and target key signaling pathways, such as the nuclear factor 
erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and Bcl-2 family of proteins. This review 
aims to briefly discuss the mutually interconnected aspects of oxidative and 
inflammatory mechanisms, such as lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation, DNA 
damage, and the mechanism and resolution of inflammation. The major part of this 
article discusses the role of flavonoids in alleviating oxidative stress and 
inflammation, two common components of many human diseases. The results of 
epidemiological studies on flavonoids are also presented.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111489
PMID: 40147618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper


23. Neuroimage. 2025 Apr 15;310:121151. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2025.121151.
Epub  2025 Mar 25.

Ensemble network using oblique coronal MRI for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis.

Li C(1), Gao Z(2), Chen X(3), Zheng X(4), Zhang X(5), Lin CY(6); Alzheimer’s 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Science and Technology for Medicine, 
Ministry of Education, Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Photonics Technology, 
Fujian Provincial Engineering Technology Research Center of Photoelectric 
Sensing Application, College of Photonic and Electronic Engineering, Fujian 
Normal University, Fuzhou, China.
(2)School of mechanical and electrical engineering, Sanming University, Sanming, 
China.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Fujian Provincial Hospital North Branch, Fujian 
Provincial Geriatric Hospital, Fuzhou, China.
(4)Department of Medical Imaging, Fujian Provincial Hospital North Branch, 
Fujian Provincial Geriatric Hospital, Fuzhou, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Science and Technology for Medicine, 
Ministry of Education, Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Photonics Technology, 
Fujian Provincial Engineering Technology Research Center of Photoelectric 
Sensing Application, College of Photonic and Electronic Engineering, Fujian 
Normal University, Fuzhou, China. Electronic address: xmzhang@fjnu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Central University, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan. Electronic address: andrewlin@ncu.edu.tw.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a primary degenerative brain disorder commonly found 
in the elderly, Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) can be considered a transitional 
stage from normal aging to Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, distinguishing 
between normal aging and disease-induced neurofunctional impairments is crucial 
in clinical treatment. Although deep learning methods have been widely applied 
in Alzheimer's diagnosis, the varying data formats used by different methods 
limited their clinical applicability. In this study, based on the ADNI dataset 
and previous clinical diagnostic experience, we propose a method using oblique 
coronal MRI to assist in diagnosis. We developed an algorithm to extract oblique 
coronal slices from 3D MRI data and used these slices to train classification 
networks. To achieve subject-wise classification based on 2D slices, rather than 
image-wise classification, we employed ensemble learning methods. This approach 
fused classification results from different modality images or different 
positions of the same modality images, constructing a more reliable ensemble 
classification model. The experiments introduced various decision fusion and 
feature fusion schemes, demonstrating the potential of oblique coronal MRI 
slices in assisting diagnosis. Notably, the weighted voting from decision fusion 
strategy trained on oblique coronal slices achieved accuracy rates of 97.5% for 
CN vs. AD, 100% for CN vs. MCI, and 94.83% for MCI vs. AD across the three 
classification tasks.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2025.121151
PMID: 40147601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


24. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Jun 1;159:108409. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108409. Epub
2025  Mar 24.

Discovery of 6-amino pyridine clubbed heterocycles as potent dual GSK-3β/CK-1δ 
inhibitors for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Sharma V(1), Reang J(1), Yadav V(1), Sharma PC(1), Majeed J(2), Sharma K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, SPS, DPSRU, New Delhi 110017, India.
(2)School of Allied Health Sciences and Management, Delhi Pharmaceutical 
Sciences and Research University, New Delhi 110017, India. Electronic address: 
jaseelapharma2017@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab 
142001, India. Electronic address: sharmakcpt@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive and chronic neurodegenerative disorder 
progression through various kinases. Glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK-3β) and 
Casein Kinase-1δ (CK-1δ) have gained a lot of attention for its role in tau 
pathology. Utilizing a multitarget strategy, a series of 6-amino pyridine 
derivatives were developed as promising dual GSK-3β/CK-1δ inhibitors for the 
treatment of AD. This study involved the design, synthesis, and evaluation of 
novel 6-amino pyridine derivatives as dual GSK-3β/CK-1δ inhibitors exhibiting 
excellent biological activities. The in-vitro results indicated that most of 
compounds displayed promising activity against GSK-3β/CK-1δ. Among the tested 
compounds, 8d exhibited strong inhibitory activity against GSK-3β and CK-1δ, 
with IC₅₀ values of 0.77 ± 0.01 μM and 0.57 ± 0.12 μM, respectively. Notably, 
compound 8d significantly reduced tau hyperphosphorylated aggregates while 
demonstrating safety in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell lines. ADME prediction 
results indicated that compound 8d adhered to Lipinski's rule of five and 
exhibited potential to permeate the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Molecular docking 
analysis revealed that this compound fits well within the ATP binding site, 
forming hydrogen bonds between its 6-amino pyridine ring with key amino acids, 
including Asp133 and Val135 in the hinge region of GSK-3β, as well as Leu85 of 
CK-1δ. These findings indicate that 6-amino pyridine derivatives have the 
potential to be effective dual-target candidates for AD.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108409
PMID: 40147226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests.


25. Minerva Med. 2025 Aug;116(4):323-328. doi: 10.23736/S0026-4806.25.09695-8.
Epub  2025 Mar 27.

Association between dapagliflozin and risk of dementia and Parkinson's disease: 
a subgroup analysis of a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.

Fernandes JV(1), Ramos JV(2), Holanda MM(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical Sciences Center, Federal University of Paraíba, João Pessoa, Brazil - 
jvitorandradefernandes@gmail.com.
(2)Medical Sciences Center, Federal University of Paraíba, João Pessoa, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Dementia and Parkinson's disease (PD) are prevalent 
neurodegenerative disorders with substantial global health impacts. Emerging 
evidence suggests that SGLT2 inhibitors, such as dapagliflozin, may offer 
neuroprotective benefits. This study aims to evaluate dapagliflozin's 
association with risks of dementia and PD through a sub-analysis of a 
meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs).
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: This sub-analysis adhered to PRISMA 2020 guidelines and 
included RCTs from a prior meta-analysis focusing on dapagliflozin. Studies 
comparing dapagliflozin to placebo with reported dementia or PD outcomes were 
selected. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were pooled using 
a random-effects model. Heterogeneity was assessed using the I2 statistic, and 
bias was evaluated with the Cochrane Risk of Bias 2 tool.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Four RCTs met the inclusion criteria. For dementia, the 
pooled OR was 2.826 (95% CI: 0.264-30.229; I2=0%). For Alzheimer's-type 
dementia, the OR was 2.308 (95% CI: 0.232-22.928; I2=0%), while for PD, the OR 
was 0.533 (95% CI: 0.072-3.944; I2=0%). None of the results were statistically 
significant, and heterogeneity across studies was negligible.
CONCLUSIONS: This sub-analysis found no significant association between 
dapagliflozin and reduced risks of dementia or PD. While these results align 
with previous meta-analyses, further long-term RCTs are necessary to clarify 
dapagliflozin's neuroprotective potential and broader therapeutic applications.

DOI: 10.23736/S0026-4806.25.09695-8
PMID: 40146049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Neural Regen Res. 2025 Mar 25. doi: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01582. Online ahead
of  print.

Potential of in vitro microelectrode arrays in Alzheimer's disease research.

O'Connell A(1), Kwakowsky A.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology and Therapeutics, School of Medicine, Galway Neuroscience 
Center, University of Galway, Galway, Ireland.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01582
PMID: 40145998


27. Neural Regen Res. 2026 Apr 1;21(4):1497-1511. doi:
10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01343.  Epub 2025 Mar 25.

Potential targets of microglia in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases: 
Mechanism and therapeutic implications.

Zhao W(1), Liu Z(2), Wu J(1), Liu A(1), Yan J(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Neuromolecular Biology Laboratory, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of 
Clinical Medicine of Henan University of Science and Technology, Luoyang, Henan 
Province, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation, The First People's Hospital of Zhengzhou, 
Zhengzhou, Henan Province.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of Clinical 
Medicine of Henan University of Science and Technology, Luoyang, Henan Province, 
China.

For diverse neurodegenerative disorders, microglial cells are activated. 
Furthermore, dysfunctional and hyperactivated microglia initiate mitochondrial 
autophagy, oxidative stress, and pathological protein accumulation, ending with 
neuroinflammation that exacerbates damage to dopaminergic neurons and 
contributes significantly to the pathology of neurodegenerative disorder. 
Microglial over-activation is closely associated with the secretion of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines, the phagocytosis of injured neurons, and the 
modulation of neurotoxic environments. This review summarizes the role of 
microglia neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, multiple sclerosis, multiple system atrophy, amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis, frontotemporal dementia, progressive supranuclear palsy, cortical 
degeneration, Lewy body dementia, and Huntington's disease. It also discusses 
novel forms of cell death such as ferroptosis, cuproptosis, disulfidptosis, and 
parthanatos (poly(adenosine diphosphate ribose) polymerase 1-dependent cell 
death), as well as the impact of regulatory factors related to microglial 
inflammation on microglial activation and neuroinflammation. The aim is to 
identify potential targets for microglial cell therapy in neurodegenerative 
diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-01343
PMCID: PMC12407519
PMID: 40145977

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.


28. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70088. doi: 10.1002/alz.70088.

Efficacy of Communication Bridge-2 for primary progressive aphasia: A randomized 
controlled trial of communication intervention.

Rogalski E(1)(2), Bona M(1), Esparza M(3), Fegter O(1), Schafer R(1), Mooney 
A(4), Fried-Oken M(4), Rademaker A(1)(5), Roberts A(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Healthy Aging & Alzheimer's Research Care (HAARC) Center, Biological Sciences 
Division, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Biological Sciences Division, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(3)Authentic Expression, LLC, Skokie, Illinois, USA.
(4)Institute of Development and Disability, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, Oregon, USA.
(5)Department of Preventive Medicine (Biostatistics & Informatics), Northwestern 
University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(6)Department of Computer Science, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(7)School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Western University, London, 
Ontario, Canada.
(8)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Northwestern University, 
Evanston, Illinois, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Primary progressive aphasia (PPA), a language-based 
neurodegenerative dementia, negatively impacts communication and quality of 
life. Previous non-pharmacologic interventions show promise but lack efficacy 
trials. Here, outcomes are provided from Communication Bridge-2 (CB2), a 
speech-language randomized controlled trial (RCT) for PPA.
METHODS: CB2 is the first Phase 2, Stage II, parallel-group RCT delivered via 
video chat with global enrollment. Ninety-five dyads were randomized into one of 
two speech-language intervention arms. Primary outcomes included communication 
confidence and participation measures. Marginal linear models assessed efficacy 
across ≈12 months.
RESULTS: Ninety-five dyads were randomized from four countries. Experimental arm 
superiority in communication-participation measurement of goal attainment was 
demonstrated (66.7% vs 49.1%, respectively, p = 0.006), and corroborated by 
post-study interviews.
DISCUSSION: Outcomes demonstrate the feasibility and initial efficacy of a 
person-centered telemedicine intervention for maximizing communication 
participation for mild-to-moderate PPA, providing a pathway for developing and 
implementing clinically meaningful interventions for Alzheimer's disease and 
related dementias.
HIGHLIGHTS: Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) negatively impacts communication 
participation. Communication Bridge-2 (CB2) is a telemedicine-delivered 
randomized controlled trial (RCT). Global recruitment of 95 PPA participant 
dyads into an RCT with low dropout. First international superiority trial for 
PPA using video chat shows efficacy. The study provides a model for rigorous 
non-pharmacologic trials for Alzheimer's disease/Alzheimer's disease and related 
dementias (AD/ADRD).

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70088
PMCID: PMC11947768
PMID: 40145390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report grant funding (E.R., A.R.), 
consultant fees (A.R.), speaker honoraria (E.R.), support for attending 
meetings/travel (E.R.), and leadership roles on a committee, unpaid (E.R.). 
There are no additional disclosures from the authors. Author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


29. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70075. doi: 10.1002/alz.70075.

Amyloid PET predicts longitudinal functional and cognitive trajectories in a 
heterogeneous cohort.

Younes K(1), Johns E(1), Young CB(1), Kennedy G(1), Mukherjee S(2), Vossler 
HA(1), Winer J(1), Cody K(1), Henderson VW(1)(3), Poston KL(1), Betthauser 
TJ(4), Bevis B(4), Brooks WM(5), Burns JM(5), Coombes SA(6), DeCarli C(7), 
DiFilippo FP(8), Duara R(6), Fan AP(7), Gibbons LE(2), Golde T(6), Johnson 
SC(4), Lepping RJ(5), Leverenz J(8), McDougall S(7), Rogalski E(9), Sanders 
E(2), Pasaye J(10), Sridhar J(10), Saykin AJ(11), Sridharan A(4), Swerdlow R(5), 
Trittschuh EH(12)(13), Vaillancourt D(6), Vidoni E(5), Wang WE(5), Mez J(14), 
Hohman TJ(15), Tosun D(16), Biber S(17), Kukull WA(17), Crane PK(2), Mormino 
EC(1)(18).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, California, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, The University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, California, USA.
(4)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(5)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City, Kansas, USA.
(6)Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(7)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of California Davis Health, 
Davis, California, USA.
(8)Cleveland Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(9)Healthy Aging & Alzheimer's Research Care (HAARC) Center, Department of 
Neurology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(10)Mesulam Center for Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease, Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(11)Indiana Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(12)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, USA.
(13)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, VA Puget Sound Health Care 
System, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(15)Vanderbilt Memory and Alzheimer's Center, Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(16)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, 
San Francisco, California, USA.
(17)Department of Epidemiology, National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(18)Wu Tsai Neuroscience Institute, Stanford, California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) is increasingly 
available for diagnosis of Alzheimer`s disease (AD); however, its practical 
implications in heterogenous cohorts are debated.
METHODS: Amyloid PET from 890 National Alzheimer`s Coordinating Center 
participants with up to 10 years post-PET follow up was analyzed. Cox 
proportional hazards and linear mixed models were used to investigate amyloid 
burden prediction of etiology and prospective functional status and cognitive 
decline.
RESULTS: Amyloid positivity was associated with progression from unimpaired to 
mild cognitive impairment and dementia. Amyloid burden in the unimpaired group 
was associated with lower initial memory levels and faster decline in memory, 
language, and global cognition. In the Impaired group, amyloid was associated 
with lower initial levels and faster decline for memory, language, executive 
function, and global cognition.
DISCUSSION: Amyloid burden is an important prognostic marker in a clinically 
heterogeneous cohort. Future work is needed to establish the proportion of 
decline driven by AD versus non-AD processes in the context of mixed pathology.
HIGHLIGHTS: Our findings highlight the importance of amyloid positron emission 
tomography (PET) in heterogenous cohorts, including diverse demographics, 
clinical syndromes, and underlying etiologies. The results also provide evidence 
that higher amyloid levels were linked to functional progression from unimpaired 
cognition to mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and from MCI to dementia. In 
cognitively unimpaired individuals, higher amyloid burden was associated with 
poorer memory at baseline and subsequent declines in memory, language, and 
global cognition. Among individuals with cognitive impairment, amyloid burden 
was associated with worse initial memory, language, executive function, and 
global cognition, and faster declines over time.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70075
PMCID: PMC11947745
PMID: 40145384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Kyan Younes received research support from the 
National Instituite of Health (NIH), Alzheimer's Association, and to conduct 
clinical trials (paid to institution) from Stanford Knight Initiative for Brain 
Resilience, consulted for GLG, and has served as a sub‐I on clinical trials 
funded by Janssen, Ari Bio, Eli Lilly and Company, Biogen, Cognition 
Therapeutics, and EIP Pharma. Christina B. Young has received research support 
from the NIH, Alzheimer's Association, and New Vision Research. Victor W. 
Henderson has received funding from the NIH and Good Planet Foundation. Joseph 
Winer has received funding from Simons Foundation. Timothy J. Hohman is on the 
Scientific Advisory Board for Vivid Genomics and serves as Deputy Editor for 
Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research and Clinical Intervention, and 
Senior Associate Editor for Alzheimer's & Dementia. Kathleen L. Poston is a 
consultant for Curasen, Novartis, Biohaven and Neuron23, and on the Scientific 
Advisory Board for Amprion and Curasen. Jeffrey M Burns has received research 
support from the NIH, research support to conduct clinical trials (paid to 
institution) from Eli Lilly, Amylyx, Biogen, Eisai, AbbVie, Astra‐Zeneca, and 
Roche, has served as a consultant for Renew Research, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Labcorp, 
Roche, and Renew Biotechnologies, and serves on a Data Monitoring Committee for 
Intra‐Cellular Therapies, Inc. Elizabeth C. Mormino is a consultant to Eli 
Lilly, Roche, and Neurotrack. Andrew J. Saykin receives support from multiple 
NIH grants (P30 AG010133, P30 AG072976, R01 AG019771, R01 AG057739, U19 
AG024904, R01 LM013463, R01 AG068193, T32 AG071444, U01 AG068057, U01 AG072177, 
and U19 AG074879). He has also received in‐kind support from Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Eli Lilly (PET tracer precursor) and Gates 
Ventures, LLC (SomaScan 7K proteomics panel assays on IADRC participants as part 
of the Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium), and has participated in 
Scientific Advisory Boards (Bayer Oncology, Eisai, Novo Nordisk, and Siemens 
Medical Solutions USA, Inc) and an Observational Study Monitoring Board (MESA, 
NIH NHLBI), as well as External Advisory Committees for multiple National 
Instituite on Aging (NIA) grants. He also serves as Editor‐in‐Chief of Brain 
Imaging and Behavior, a Springer‐Nature Journal. Karly Cody, Tobey J. 
Betthauser, Shubhabrata Mukherjee, Stephen A. Coombes, Sterling C. Johnson, 
Rebecca J. Lepping, James Leverenz, William M. Brooks, Russell Swerdlow, Emily 
Rogalski, Emily H. Trittschuh, Wei‐en Wang, David Vaillancourt, Eric Vidoni, 
Sarah Biber, Walter A. Kukull, and Paul K. Crane have received funding from the 
NIH. Emily Johns, Gabriel Kennedy, Hillary A. Vossler, Bill Bevis, Charles 
DeCarli, Frank P. DiFilippo, Ranjan Duara, Audrey P. Fan, Laura E. Gibbons, Todd 
Golde, Sean McDougall, Elizabeth Sanders, Joshua Pasaye, Jaiashre Sridhar, 
Anjali Sridharan, Jesse Mez, and Duygu Tosun have nothing to disclose. Author 
disclosures are available in the Supporting Information


30. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70081. doi: 10.1002/alz.70081.

Commonly prescribed multi-medication therapies exert sex-specific effects on 
Alzheimer's disease pathology and metabolomic profiles in App(NL-G-F) mice: 
Implications for personalized therapeutics in aging.

Eroli F(1), Johnell K(2), Acararicin Z(1), Tsagkogianni C(1), Zerial S(1), 
Lancia S(1), Latorre-Leal M(1), Alanko V(1)(3), Hilmer SN(4), Matton A(1)(3), 
Wastesson JW(2), Cedazo-Minguez A(1), Maioli S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Center for Alzheimer 
Research, Division of Neurogeriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden.
(2)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Solna, Sweden.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Center for Alzheimer 
Research, Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden.
(4)Kolling Institute, Northern Sydney Local Health District and The University 
of Sydney, St Leonards NSW, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Polypharmacy is common among older adults and people with 
dementia. Multi-medication therapy poses risks of harm but also targets 
comorbidities and risk factors associated with dementia, offering therapeutic 
potential.
METHODS: We evaluated the effects of two polypharmacy regimens and monotherapies 
on male and female AppNL-G-F knock-in mice. We assessed functional, emotional, 
and cognitive outcomes;amyloid pathology; and serum metabolomics profiles.
RESULTS: A combination of metoprolol, simvastatin, aspirin, paracetamol, and 
citalopram improved memory, reduced amyloid burden and neuroinflammation, and 
modulated AD-associated metabolomic signatures in male mice, with negligible 
effects in female mice. Substituting two cardiovascular drugs impacted emotional 
domains but worsened memory, predominantly in female mice. In males, 
monotherapies could not explain the combination effects, suggesting drug 
synergy, whereas in female mice, certain monotherapy effects were lost when 
combined.
DISCUSSION: This study uncovers the sex-specific effects of polypharmacy in an 
AD model, identifying mechanisms and biomarkers that can guide gender-specific 
use of medicines in dementia prevention and management.
HIGHLIGHTS: Two polypharmacy combinations show sex-specific effects on AD 
pathology and serum metabolomic profiles. 
Metoprolol+simvastatin+aspirin+paracetamol+citalopram improves memory and 
amyloid pathology in male mice. Replacing metoprolol and simvastatin with 
enalapril and atorvastatin eliminates benefits in male mice and impairs memory 
in female mice. Selected monotherapies produce sex-specific effects but only 
partially explain the outcomes of the combinations. Metabolomic pathways in 
serum indicate possible mechanisms and biomarkers for evaluating the 
effectiveness and safety of personalized therapies in aging and dementia.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70081
PMCID: PMC11947741
PMID: 40145346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare no conflict of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


31. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70104. doi: 10.1002/alz.70104.

Biomarkers of blood-brain barrier and neurovascular unit integrity in human 
cognitive impairment and dementia.

French SR(1), Meyer BP(2), Arias JC(1), Levendovzsky SR(2), Weinkauf CC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, Integrated Brain Imaging Center, University of 
Washington Medical Center, Seattle, Washington, USA.

Blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction is recognized as an early step in the 
development of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD). Biomarkers are 
needed to monitor BBB integrity over time, better understand the role of the BBB 
in neurodegeneration, potentially help define long-term ADRD risk, and monitor 
effects of therapeutics. In this review, we discuss the current biomarkers used 
to detect human BBB dysfunction in the context of cognitive decline and 
dementia. We also discuss promising candidate fluid biomarkers to detect BBB 
dysfunction in blood. HIGHLIGHTS: BBB permeability occurs during normal aging 
and is further exacerbated in ADRD. In this review, we discuss in vivo imaging 
and CSF biomarkers of BBB dysfunction currently used in the setting of aging and 
ADRD in humans. We also review promising candidate blood-based biomarkers that 
may represent BBB dysfunction.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70104
PMCID: PMC11947770
PMID: 40145342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


32. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70079. doi: 10.1002/alz.70079.

Updates and future perspectives on neuropsychiatric symptoms in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Ruthirakuhan M(1), Guan DX(2), Mortby M(3), Gatchel J(4), Babulal GM(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Hurvitz Brain Sciences Research Program, Sunnybrook Research Institute, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Cummings School of Medicine, and Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(3)UNSW Ageing Futures Institute, University of New South Wales, Kensington, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(6)Institute of Public Health, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.

Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) are common throughout the Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) continuum and profoundly affect patients, caregivers, and health-care 
systems. This review synthesizes key research presented in the 2022 and 2023 
Alzheimer's Association International Society to Advance Alzheimer's Research 
and Treatment Neuropsychiatric Syndromes-Professional Interest Area (NPS-PIA) 
Year-In-Reviews, emphasizing six critical areas: (1) diversity and disparities, 
(2) diagnostic frameworks, (3) neurobiology of NPS, (4) NPS as a disease marker, 
(5) the impact of COVID-19, and (6) interventions. NPS accelerates AD 
progression, increases functional decline, diminishes quality of life, and 
heightens caregiver burden and institutionalization rates. Current treatments 
primarily rely on psychotropics, which offer limited efficacy and raise safety 
concerns. This review aims to inform clinicians and researchers about recent NPS 
advancements while identifying gaps for future studies to improve outcomes for 
individuals with AD. HIGHLIGHTS: Research in Alzheimer's disease-related 
neuropsychiatric symptoms has rapidly increased, indicating heightened interest. 
Key areas include: diversity, diagnostics, markers, COVID-19 impact, and 
treatments. A road map for future studies, based on the key areas of research, 
is provided. This road map includes considerations to improve study 
applicability and validity.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70079
PMCID: PMC11947761
PMID: 40145329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests Author 
disclosures are available in the supporting information.


33. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70112. doi: 10.1002/alz.70112.

Neuronal ABCA7 deficiency aggravates mitochondrial dysfunction and 
neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease.

Wang N(1), Pan Y(2), Starling SC(1), Haskell DH(1), Quintero AC(1), Kawatani 
K(1), Inoue Y(1), Shue F(1), Ma X(1), Aikawa T(1), Martens YA(1)(3), Kurti A(1), 
Parsons TM(1), Perkerson RB(1), Roy B(1), Raulin AC(1), Ren Y(4), DeTure M(1), 
Dickson DW(1), Bao H(5), Han X(5), Bu G(1)(6), Kanekiyo T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(2)Department of Public Health, University of North Florida, Jacksonville, 
Florida, USA.
(3)SciNeuro Pharmaceuticals, Rockville, Maryland, USA.
(4)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, 
Florida, USA.
(5)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, USA.
(6)Division of Life Science, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
Clear Water Bay Hong Kong, China.

INTRODUCTION: Loss-of-function variants of the ABCA7 gene are associated with an 
increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). How neuronal ABCA7 contributes to AD 
pathogenesis is unknown.
METHODS: Using neuron-specific Abca7 KO mice (nAbca7-/-) with or without 5×FAD 
amyloid model background and post mortem AD brains, we investigated AD-related 
phenotypes through comprehensive approaches including transcriptomics and 
lipidomics.
RESULTS: Lipidomics analysis detected altered lipid profiles in the brains and 
synaptosomes of 5×FAD; nAbca7-/- mice compared to controls. Transcriptomics 
profiling revealed that neuronal ABCA7 deficiency altered the expression of 
genes and pathways related to mitochondrial homeostasis and apoptosis, 
particularly in excitatory neurons. Consistently, synaptosomes isolated from 
5×FAD; nAbca7-/- mice showed diminished mitochondria respiration and reduced 
synaptic protein levels, which is further supported by results from human AD 
brains.
DISCUSSION: Our findings reveal that neuronal ABCA7 plays a critical role in 
mitochondrial homeostasis important for neuronal function and survival in the 
presence of AD pathology.
HIGHLIGHTS: Neuronal ABCA7 deficiency exacerbates Aβ pathology and neuronal 
damage in 5×FAD mice. Neuronal ABCA7 deficiency alters brain transcriptomes and 
lipidomes of 5×FAD mice. Neuronal ABCA7 deficiency disturbs mitochondria 
functions in synaptosomes from 5×FAD mice. Neuronal ABCA7 expression associates 
with genes and pathways related to mitochondrial homeostasis in AD brains.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70112
PMCID: PMC11947734
PMID: 40145325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: T.K. has served on scientific advisory boards 
for Path Biotech LLC and has consulted for Ono Pharma Inc. G.B. serves as a 
consultant for SciNeuro Pharmaceuticals and Kisbee Therapeutics. Other authors 
declare no competing interests. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


34. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70111. doi: 10.1002/alz.70111.

Brain structural alterations in young women with premature ovarian 
insufficiency: Implications for dementia risk.

Yuan S(1)(2), Gong Y(3), Zhang Y(1)(2), Cao W(1)(2), Wei L(1)(2), Sun T(1)(2), 
Sun J(1)(2), Wang L(1)(2), Zhang Q(1)(2), Wang Q(1)(2), Wei Y(3), Qian Z(1)(2), 
Zhang P(3), Lai D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The International Peace Maternity and Child Health Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Embryo Original Diseases, Shanghai, China.
(3)School of Biomedical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 
China.

INTRODUCTION: Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI), marked by ovarian function 
loss before age 40, is linked to a higher risk of dementia, including 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the associated brain structural changes 
remain poorly understood.
METHODS: We analyzed T1-weighted and diffusion tensor imaging in 33 idiopathic 
POI women and 51 healthy controls, using voxel-based, surface-based morphometry, 
and network analyses to assess gray matter volume (GMV), cortical thickness, and 
brain connectivity.
RESULTS: Women with POI showed significant GMV and cortical thickness reductions 
in the frontal, parietal, and temporal regions (p < 0.05), alongside impaired 
connectivity with key regions such as the hippocampus, thalamus, and amygdala 
(p < 0.05). Younger POI subgroups exhibited changes in more widespread brain 
regions. In additionally, notable atrophy was observed in specific hippocampal 
and thalamic subregions in POI (p < 0.05).
DISCUSSION: This preliminary study suggests early neurodegenerative patterns in 
POI, potentially contributing to dementia risk. Further research is needed to 
explore the underlying mechanisms and potential interventions.
HIGHLIGHTS: We evaluated brain structural changes in participants with 
idiopathic premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). The observed brain alterations 
in POI participants closely resemble those seen in early dementia, including 
regions specifically associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). These findings 
highlight the critical need for early interventions to reduce the long-term 
risks of cognitive impairment and dementia in women with POI.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70111
PMCID: PMC11947759
PMID: 40145307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


35. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70116. doi: 10.1002/alz.70116.

Novel blood-based proteomic signatures across multiple neurodegenerative 
diseases.

Durcan R(1), Heslegrave A(2), Swann P(3), Goddard J(1)(4), Chouliaras L(3), 
Murley AG(1), Savulich G(3), Bevan-Jones WR(3), Swann O(2), Ashton NJ(5)(6)(7), 
Blennow K(5)(8), McEwan W(4), Zetterberg H(2)(5)(8)(9)(10)(11), Rowe JB(1)(12), 
O'Brien JT(3), Malpetti M(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge and Cambridge 
University Hospitals NHS Trust, Cambridge, UK.
(2)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, UK.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(4)UK Dementia Research Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(6)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, University of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(7)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(9)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(10)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(11)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(12)Medical Research Council Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Blood-based biomarkers have the potential to support early and 
accurate diagnoses of neurodegenerative diseases, which are sensitive to 
molecular pathology and are predictive of outcome. We evaluated a novel 
multiplex proteomic method in people with diverse neurodegenerative diseases.
METHODS: Serum from people with Alzheimer's disease (N = 36), Lewy body dementia 
(N = 34), frontotemporal dementia (N = 36), and progressive supranuclear palsy 
(N = 36) and age-matched controls (N = 30) was analyzed with the nucleic acid 
linked immuno-sandwich assay (NULISA) central nervous system panel (≈ 120 
analytes) and inflammation panel (250 analytes). Biomarkers were compared across 
groups and included as predictors of survival.
RESULTS: The NULISA panels demonstrated high sensitivity and reliability for 
detecting multiple biomarkers across neurodegenerative disorders. There were 
condition-specific proteomic biomarkers, while neurofilament light chain, 
corticotropin-releasing hormone, CD276, and a data-driven inflammation pattern 
were significant transdiagnostic outcome predictors.
DISCUSSION: The sensitive NULISA multiplex approach supports differential 
diagnosis and target identification, with prognostically informative 
dementia-related biomarkers.
HIGHLIGHTS: We tested the novel technology nucleic acid linked immuno-sandwich 
assay (NULISA) in people with diverse neurodegenerative diseases, which 
demonstrated high sensitivity and reliability for detecting multiple biomarkers 
in serum samples. We compared the NULISA central nervous system serum results to 
single molecule array (Simoa) plasma assays for phosphorylated tau (p-tau)217, 
p-tau231, neurofilament light chain (NfL), and glial fibrillary acidic protein, 
finding strong correlations. Increased levels of serum NfL were identified 
across all patient groups and most elevated in the frontotemporal dementia (FTD) 
and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) cohorts, while p-tau epitopes were the 
most significant markers in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Lewy body 
dementia. Patients with FTD and PSP showed upregulation of many inflammation 
markers, compared to controls and patients with AD. We found condition-specific 
proteomic biomarkers, while NfL, corticotropin-releasing hormone, CD276, and 
data-driven immune signatures were significant transdiagnostic predictors of 
clinical outcomes (survival rates).

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70116
PMCID: PMC11947754
PMID: 40145305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
report related to this work. Unrelated to this work, J.T.O. has received 
honoraria for work as DSMB chair or member for TauRx, Axon, Eisai, and Novo 
Nordisk; has acted as a consultant for Biogen and Roche; and has received 
research support from Alliance Medical and Merck. J.B.R. is a non‐remunerated 
trustee of the Guarantors of Brain, Darwin College, and the PSP Association 
(UK). He provides consultancy unrelated to the current work to Asceneuron, 
Astronautx, Astex, Curasen, CumulusNeuro, Wave, and SVHealth and has research 
grants from AZ‐Medimmune, Janssen, and Lilly as industry partners in the 
Dementias Platform UK. M.M. has acted as a consultant for Astex Pharmaceuticals. 
W.M. is an academic co‐founder and consultant to Trimtech Therapeutics and has a 
research grant funded by Takeda Pharmaceuticals. H.Z. has served on scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche; and is a co‐founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work). A.H. has served as a consultant for 
Quanterix and been a paid panel member for Lilly. Author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


36. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70037. doi: 10.1002/alz.70037.

Driving research on successful aging and neuroprotection in Latin America: 
Insights from the inaugural symposium on brain resilience and healthy longevity.

Quiroz YT(1)(2)(3), Aguillón D(3), Arboleda-Velasquez J(4), Bocanegra Y(3), 
Cardona-Gómez GP(3), Corrada MM(5)(6), Diez I(1)(7)(8), Garcia-Cifuentes 
E(3)(9), Kosik K(10), Martinez L(1), Pineda-Salazar D(3), Posada R(3), Roman 
N(11), Sepulveda-Falla D(12), Slachevsky A(13)(14)(15)(16), Soto-Añari M(17), 
Tabilo E(13)(14)(15)(16), Vasquez D(3), Villegas-Lanau A(3).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Boston University Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Grupo de Neurociencias de Antioquia, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de 
Antioquia, Calle 62 # 52 -59, Sede de Investigación Universitaria - SIU, 
Medellín, Colombia.
(4)Schepens Eye Research Institute, Mass Eye and Ear, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology and Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, 
University of California, Irvine, California, USA.
(6)Institute of Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders, University of 
California, Irvine, California, USA.
(7)Computational Neuroimaging Lab, BioBizkaia health Research Institute, 
Barakaldo, Bizkaia, Spain.
(8)Ikerbasque Basque Foundation for Science, Bilbao, Biscay, Spain.
(9)Ageing Institute, Medical School, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, Bogota, 
Colombia.
(10)University of California, Santa Barbara, California, USA.
(11)Grupo de Trabajo de Trastornos del Movimiento de Centro América, MDS, San 
Pedro Montes de Oca, Universidad de Costa Rica, CIHATA, San José, Costa Rica.
(12)Institute of Neuropathology, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Deutschland.
(13)Gerosciences Center for Brain Health and Metabolism (GERO), Santiago, Chile.
(14)Memory and Neuropsychiatric Center (CMYN) Neurology Department, Hospital del 
Salvador & Faculty of Medicine, University of Chile, Providencia, Chile.
(15)Neuropsychology and Clinical Neuroscience Laboratory (LANNEC), 
Physiopathology Department - ICBM, Neuroscience and East Neuroscience 
Departments, Faculty of Medicine, University of Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(16)Neurology and Psychiatry Department, Clínica Alemana-University Desarrollo, 
Santiago, Chile.
(17)Universidad Católica San Pablo, Urb. Campiña Paisajista, s/n, Quinta 
Vivanco, Arequipa, Peru.

INTRODUCTION: Global life expectancy has steadily increased in recent decades, 
resulting in a significant rise in the number of individuals aged 80 years and 
older. This trend is also evident in Latin America, where life expectancy is 
improving, though at varying rates across countries and regions.
METHODS: Partnering with the Neurosciences Group of Antioquia (GNA), we launched 
a Colombian study on resilience in families with autosomal dominant Alzheimer's 
disease and the oldest-old population. Over the past 2 years, the project has 
expanded to include participants from Peru, Chile, and Costa Rica.
RESULTS: This research led to the first symposium on Brain Resilience and 
Healthy Longevity, held in Medellín, Colombia, in August 2024.
DISCUSSION: The article summarizes key discussions from the symposium, 
highlighting the most promising opportunities for brain resilience and 
prevention research in the region and offering recommendations for future 
research to promote healthy aging and dementia-free communities.
HIGHLIGHTS: Uncovering the genetic and physiological drivers of cognitive 
resilience, neurodegeneration resistance, and healthy longevity is essential for 
maintaining brain function as we age. "Superagers" and cognitively resilient 
individuals from Latin American families with Alzheimer's disease offer valuable 
insights into brain protection mechanisms. Studying the interplay of 
socio-environmental and genetic factors in the oldest-old is key to 
understanding healthy longevity and improving dementia prevention. The inaugural 
Brain Resilience and Healthy Longevity Symposium highlights the need for global 
collaboration to uncover factors that drive cognitive resilience and healthy 
aging in Latin America, advancing dementia prevention.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70037
PMCID: PMC11947765
PMID: 40145291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Yakeel T. Quiroz serves as consultant for 
Biogen. Joseph Arboleda‐Velasquez is a cofounder of Epoch Biotech, a company 
developing resilient case‐inspired therapeutics. Kenneth Kosik consults with 
Expansion Therapeutics, ADRx Pharma, and Herophilus, and serves on the board of 
directors of the Tau Consortium. All other co‐authors report no competing 
interests. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


37. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70113. doi: 10.1002/alz.70113.

Cut-points and gray zones: The challenges of integrating Alzheimer's disease 
plasma biomarkers into clinical practice.

Hazan J(1), Liu KY(1), Isaacs JD(2)(3), Howard R(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
(2)St George's University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(3)Neuroscience & Cell Biology Research Institute, St George's School of Health 
and Medical Sciences, City St George's, University of London, London, UK.

Plasma biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD), such as plasma phosphorylated 
(p)-tau217, offer a more accessible means of testing for the presence of AD 
pathology compared to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or positron emission tomography 
(PET) methods. They can support diagnostic assessment and determine patient 
eligibility for treatment with amyloid beta-lowering drugs in community settings 
where access to CSF examination and amyloid-PET are limited. However, there are 
important challenges associated with interpreting and integrating plasma 
biomarker results in clinical practice. This article explores different 
approaches to interpreting plasma biomarker results in secondary care, important 
potential sources of uncertainty, and considerations for their clinical 
application. HIGHLIGHTS: Plasma biomarkers such as phosphorylated tau-217 
(p-tau217) offer a promising, accessible alternative to cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) and positron emission tomography (PET) for detecting Alzheimer's disease 
pathology, especially in settings with limited diagnostic resources. Clinical 
integration of plasma biomarker testing presents challenges, particularly in 
interpreting results. This includes uncertainties around intermediate results 
and their role in patient management. Clear frameworks and guidelines are 
essential to optimize the use of plasma biomarkers, supported by further 
research and education to ensure effective application in clinical practice.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70113
PMCID: PMC11947736
PMID: 40145267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.D.I. reports consultancy work for Roche and a 
speaker's fee from Biogen, all paid to his institution, as well as consultancy 
work for Nestlé Health Science and conference registration and expenses from 
Roche. The other authors declare no competing interests. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information.


38. Front Comput Neurosci. 2025 Mar 12;19:1484540. doi:
10.3389/fncom.2025.1484540.  eCollection 2025.

AD-Diff: enhancing Alzheimer's disease prediction accuracy through multimodal 
fusion.

Han L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Health and Environmental Sciences, 
Auckland University of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand.

Early prediction of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is crucial to improving patient 
quality of life and treatment outcomes. However, current predictive methods face 
challenges such as insufficient multimodal information integration and the high 
cost of PET image acquisition, which limit their effectiveness in practical 
applications. To address these issues, this paper proposes an innovative model, 
AD-Diff. This model significantly improves AD prediction accuracy by integrating 
PET images generated through a diffusion process with cognitive scale data and 
other modalities. Specifically, the AD-Diff model consists of two core 
components: the ADdiffusion module and the multimodal Mamba Classifier. The 
ADdiffusion module uses a 3D diffusion process to generate high-quality PET 
images, which are then fused with MRI images and tabular data to provide input 
for the Multimodal Mamba Classifier. Experimental results on the OASIS and ADNI 
datasets demonstrate that the AD-Diff model performs exceptionally well in both 
long-term and short-term AD prediction tasks, significantly improving prediction 
accuracy and reliability. These results highlight the significant advantages of 
the AD-Diff model in handling complex medical image data and multimodal 
information, providing an effective tool for the early diagnosis and 
personalized treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 Han.

DOI: 10.3389/fncom.2025.1484540
PMCID: PMC11937103
PMID: 40145080

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


39. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Mar 12;16:1474012. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1474012. 
eCollection 2025.

Exosomes enriched with miR-124-3p show therapeutic potential in a new 
microfluidic triculture model that recapitulates neuron-glia crosstalk in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Évora A(#)(1), Garcia G(#)(1)(2), Rubi A(1), De Vitis E(3), Matos AT(1), Vaz 
AR(1)(2), Gervaso F(3), Gigli G(3)(4), Polini A(3), Brites D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuroinflammation, Signaling and Neuroregeneration, Research Institute for 
Medicines (iMed.ULisboa), Faculty of Pharmacy, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, 
Portugal.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Medicines, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.
(3)Institute of Nanotechnology, National Research Council (CNR Nanotec), Lecce, 
Italy.
(4)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale, Università Del Salento, Lecce, Italy.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD), a complex neurodegenerative disease 
associated with ageing, is the leading cause of dementia. Few people with early 
AD are eligible for the novel Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug 
treatments. Accordingly, new tools and early diagnosis markers are required to 
predict subtypes, individual stages, and the most suitable personalized 
treatment. We previously demonstrated that the regulation of microRNA (miR)-124 
is crucial for proper neuronal function and microglia reshaping in human AD cell 
models.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to develop an efficient miR-124-3p-loaded 
exosome strategy and validate its therapeutic potential in using a 
multi-compartment microfluidic device of neuron-glia that recapitulates age-AD 
pathological features.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using cortical microglia from mouse pups, separated from 
glial mixed cultures and maintained for 2 days in vitro (stressed microglia), we 
tested the effects of SH-SY5Y-derived exosomes loaded with miR-124-3p mimic 
either by their direct transfection with Exo-Fect™ (ET124) or by their isolation 
from the secretome of miR-124 transfected cells (CT124). ET124 revealed better 
delivery effciency and higher potent effects in improving the stressed microglia 
status than CT124. Tricultures of human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells (SH-WT) were 
established in the presence of the human microglia cell line (HMC3) and 
immortalized human astrocytes (IM-HA) in tricompartmentalized microfluidic 
devices. Replacement of SH-WT cells with those transfected with APP695 (SH-SWE) 
in the tricultures and addition of low doses of hydrogen peroxide were used to 
simulate late-onset AD. The system mimicked AD-associated neurodegeneration and 
neuroinflammation processes. Notably, ET124 exhibited neuroprotective properties 
across the three cell types in the AD model by preventing neuronal apoptosis and 
neurite deficits, redirecting microglial profiles towards a steady state, and 
attenuating the inflammatory and miRNA fingerprints associated with astrocyte 
reactivity.
CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study supporting the 
neuro- and immunoprotective properties of miR-124-engineered exosomes in a 
microfluidic triculture platform, recapitulating age-related susceptibility to 
AD. Our system offers potential to develop personalized medicines in AD patient 
subtypes.

Copyright © 2025 Évora, Garcia, Rubi, De Vitis, Matos, Vaz, Gervaso, Gigli, 
Polini and Brites.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1474012
PMCID: PMC11936931
PMID: 40144670

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


40. Front Neurol. 2025 Mar 12;16:1552940. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1552940. 
eCollection 2025.

Early prediction of Alzheimer's disease using artificial intelligence and 
cortical features on T1WI sequences.

Zeng R(#)(1)(2), Yang B(#)(1), Wu F(3), Liu H(4), Wu X(1), Tang L(5), Song R(1), 
Zheng Q(1), Wang X(6), Guo D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Department of Radiology, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(3)Department of Medical Service, Yanzhuang Central Hospital of Gangcheng 
District, Jinan, China.
(4)GE Healthcare, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Radiology, Chongqing University Cancer Hospital, Chongqing, 
China.
(6)Department of Radiology, Chongqing Western Hospital, Chongqing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Accurately predicting the progression of mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a challenging task, which is crucial for 
helping develop personalized treatment plans to improve prognosis.
PURPOSE: To develop new technology for the early prediction of AD using 
artificial intelligence and cortical features on MRI.
METHODS: A total of 162 MCI patients were included from the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database. By using a 3D-MPRAGE sequence, T1W 
images for each patient were acquired. All patients were randomly divided into a 
training set (n = 112) and a validation set (n = 50) at a ratio of 7:3. 
Morphological features of the cerebral cortex were extracted with FreeSurfer 
software. Network features were extracted from gray matter with the GRETNA 
toolbox. The network, morphology, network-clinical, morphology-clinical, 
morphology-network and morphology-network-clinical models were developed by 
multivariate Cox proportional hazard model. The performance of each model was 
assessed by the concordance index (C-index).
RESULTS: In the training group, the C-indexes of the network, morphology, 
network-clinical, morphology-clinical, morphology-network and 
morphology-network-clinical models were 0.834, 0.926, 0.915, 0.949, 0.928, and 
0.951, respectively. The C-indexes of those models in the validation group were 
0.765, 0.784, 0.849, 0.877, 0.884, and 0.880, respectively. The 
morphology-network-clinical model performed the best. A multi-predictor nomogram 
with high accuracy for individual AD prediction (C-index = 0.951) was 
established.
CONCLUSION: The early occurrence of AD could be accurately predicted using our 
morphology-network-clinical model and the multi-predictor nomogram. This could 
help doctors make early and personalized treatment decisions in clinical 
practice, which showed important clinical significance.

Copyright © 2025 Zeng, Yang, Wu, Liu, Wu, Tang, Song, Zheng, Wang and Guo.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1552940
PMCID: PMC11938367
PMID: 40144618

Conflict of interest statement: HL was employed by company GE Healthcare. The 
remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any 
commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest.


41. Food Sci Nutr. 2025 Mar 26;13(4):e70007. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.70007. eCollection
 2025 Apr.

Moringa oleifera Extracts as Strategic Phyto-Therapy for Alzheimer's Disease.

Carrotta R(1), Vilasi S(1), Costa MA(1), Librizzi F(1), Martorana V(1), 
Passantino R(1), Buzzanca C(2), di Stefano V(2), Ortore MG(3), Piccirillo S(4), 
Preziuso A(4), Magi S(4), Mangione MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biophysics, National Research Council Palermo Italy.
(2)Department of Science and Biological, Chemical and Pharmaceutical 
Technologies STEBICEF University of Palermo Palermo Italy.
(3)Department of Life and Environmental Sciences Marche Polytechnic University 
Ancona Italy.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Public Health, School of Medicine 
Marche Polytechnic University Ancona Italy.

In the last decades, plant extracts have received great attention. In 
particular, many studies pointed out the potential neuroprotective effect of 
polyphenols-rich extracts from plants. Evidence indeed highlights the action of 
polyphenols, both as antioxidants and as inhibitors in the formation of amyloid 
protein aggregates, known to be involved in neurodegenerative diseases. In this 
work, aqueous extracts obtained at high and room temperature from leaves of 
Moringa oleifera (MO) harvested in Sicily were characterized for polyphenolic 
content, anti-oxidative and free radical scavenging capacity. UHPLC-HESI-MS 
analysis shows that both water extracts are rich in terms of polyphenols. Then, 
MO aqueous extracts were tested as inhibitors in the amyloid aggregation process 
of Amyloid β-peptide 1-42 (Aβ1-42). This peptide is strongly involved in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), its overproduction and aggregated species being 
considered a hallmark of AD. Results show that MO extracts cause a strong 
inhibition on the amyloid process. Biophysical characterization of the extracts 
reveals the presence of stable polyphenol assemblies. Both free and aggregated 
polyphenols elicit an efficient inhibition mechanism held up by their ability to 
interact with metastable species, strongly hindering autocatalytic amyloid 
growth. Finally, the effects of the MO room temperature extract have been tested 
on an AD cell model, retinoic acid-differentiated SH-SY5Y cells challenged with 
glyceraldehyde (GA). Cell pretreatment with MO extract results in an improved 
cell viability in comparison with the control and furthermore in the reduction 
of both mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and GA-stimulated Aβ1-42 
production.

© 2025 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.70007
PMCID: PMC11938381
PMID: 40144559

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


42. Chem Sci. 2025 Mar 11;16(17):7215-7226. doi: 10.1039/d4sc07963a. eCollection 
2025 Apr 30.

Inhibition of the cGAS-STING pathway via an endogenous copper ion-responsive 
covalent organic framework nanozyme for Alzheimer's disease treatment.

Zhang H(1)(2), Ya J(1)(2), Sun M(1)(2), Du X(3), Ren J(1)(2), Qu X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Chemical Biology and State Key Laboratory of Rare Earth 
Resource Utilization, Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences Changchun Jilin 130022 China xqu@ciac.ac.cn.
(2)School of Applied Chemistry and Engineering, University of Science and 
Technology of China Hefei Anhui 230029 China.
(3)College of Life Sciences and Oceanography, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of 
Microbial Genetic Engineering, Shenzhen University Shenzhen 518060 China.

Inhibition of cGAS-STING overactivation has recently emerged as a promising 
strategy to counteract Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, current cGAS-STING 
inhibitors as immunosuppressants suffer from instability, non-specific 
targeting, and innate immune disruption. Here, an endogenous AD brain copper 
ion-responsive covalent organic framework (COF)-based nanozyme (denoted as 
TP@PB-COF@NADH) has been designed for targeted inhibition of the cGAS-STING 
pathway for AD treatment. The effective trapping of excess brain endogenous 
copper ions by TP@PB-COF@NADH not only inhibits the Cu2+-induced harmful 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) production which is one of the mediators of 
cGAS-STING activation, but also activates the nanozyme activity of 
TP@PB-COF@NADH. Furthermore, the well-prepared nanozyme catalytically generates 
NAD+ and consumes hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) through second near-infrared (NIR-II) 
enhanced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) peroxidase (NPX)-like 
activity, realizing the efficient inhibition of the cGAS-STING pathway and 
associated neuroinflammation. Moreover, replenishing NAD+ levels efficiently 
restores mitochondrial function and ATP supply. In vivo studies demonstrate that 
TP@PB-COF@NADH with NIR-II irradiation significantly improves cognitive function 
in 3× Tg-AD mice, with a reduction in amyloid-β (Aβ) plaque, neuroinflammation 
and neuronal damage. Collectively, this work presents a promising approach for 
AD treatment by using an AD brain harmful excess endogenous copper 
ion-responsive and efficient nanozyme.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d4sc07963a
PMCID: PMC11934151
PMID: 40144496

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts to declare.


43. Front Chem. 2025 Mar 12;13:1549186. doi: 10.3389/fchem.2025.1549186.
eCollection  2025.

Exploring shared therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease and glioblastoma 
using network pharmacology and protein-protein interaction approach.

Pradeep S(1)(2), Sai Chakith MR(3), Sindhushree SR(1), Reddy P(4), Sushmitha 
E(3), Purohit MN(5), Suresh D(5), Swamy Shivananju N(6), Silina E(7), Manturova 
N(8), Stupin V(8), Kollur SP(9), Shivamallu C(1), Achar RR(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences, JSS 
Academy of Higher Education and Research, Mysuru, Karnataka, India.
(2)Centre for Digital Health and AI, JSS Medical College, JSS Academy of Higher 
Education and Research, Mysuru, Karnataka, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, JSS Medical College, JSS Academy of Higher 
Education and Research, Mysuru, Karnataka, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Acharya Institute of Technology, Bengaluru, 
Karnataka, India.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, JSS College of Pharmacy, JSS Academy 
of Higher Education and Research, Mysuru, Karnataka, India.
(6)Department of Biotechnology, JSS Science and Technology University, Sri 
Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering, Mysuru, Karnataka, India.
(7)Institute of Digital Biodesign and Modeling of Living Systems, I. M. Sechenov 
First Moscow State Medical University (Sechenov University), Moscow, Russia.
(8)Department of Surgery, Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University, 
Moscow, Russia.
(9)School of Physical Sciences, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Mysuru Campus, 
Mysuru, Karnataka, India.
(10)Division of Biochemistry, School of Life Sciences, JSS Academy of Higher 
Education and Research, Mysuru, Karnataka, India.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and glioblastoma (GBM) are complex 
neurological disorders with distinct pathologies but overlapping molecular 
mechanisms, including neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and dysregulated 
signaling pathways. Despite significant advancements in research, effective 
therapies targeting both conditions remain elusive. Identifying shared molecular 
targets and potential therapeutic agents could offer novel treatment strategies 
for these disorders.
METHODOLOGY: The study employs an integrative network pharmacology approach to 
explore the therapeutic potential of bioactive compounds from Eclipta alba, a 
medicinal herb known for its neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties. A 
systematic methodology was adopted, starting with network pharmacology analysis 
using STRING and DisGeNET databases, which identified 617 common genes 
associated with AD and GBM. Among these, key hub genes-TP53, STAT3, AKT1, and 
IL6-were prioritized using Cytoscape for network visualization and analysis.
RESULTS: Molecular docking studies were conducted using PyRx software to assess 
the binding interactions of 26 phytochemicals from Eclipta alba against the 
identified target genes. Luteolin exhibited the highest binding affinity to IL6 
(-7.8 kcal/mol), forming stable hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. To 
further validate this interaction, molecular dynamics simulations (MDS) were 
performed using GROMACS, confirming the stability of the Luteolin-IL6 complex. 
Additionally, MM-PBSA binding energy calculations using AmberTools 
(-145.44 kJ/mol) provided further evidence of a strong and stable interaction. 
Pharmacokinetic and toxicity evaluations, conducted using SwissADME and pkCSM, 
highlighted luteolin's favorable drug-like properties, including good 
bioavailability and low toxicity. These findings suggest that luteolin may serve 
as a promising multi-target therapeutic agent for AD and GBM by modulating key 
pathological pathways.
CONCLUSION: The present study provides a strong computational foundation for 
further in vitro and in vivo validation. The results highlight the potential of 
luteolin in developing dual-target treatment strategies for neurodegenerative 
and oncological disorders, offering new avenues for therapeutic advancements.

Copyright © 2025 Pradeep, Sai Chakith, Sindhushree, Reddy, Sushmitha, Purohit, 
Suresh, Swamy Shivananju, Silina, Manturova, Stupin, Kollur, Shivamallu and 
Achar.

DOI: 10.3389/fchem.2025.1549186
PMCID: PMC11938128
PMID: 40144222

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


44. Neurosci Insights. 2025 Mar 25;20:26331055251328355. doi: 
10.1177/26331055251328355. eCollection 2025.

Surface Versus Penetrative rTMS Stimulation May Be More Effective for AD 
Patients with Cerebrovascular Disease.

Lithgow BJ(1)(2)(3), Saha C(1), Dastgheib Z(1), Moussavi Z(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.
(2)Monash Alfred Psychiatry Research Centre, Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Riverview Health Centre, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.

Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) has been applied as an 
investigational therapy for Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The recent largest 
(N = 135) double-blind study with 6 months post-treatment follow-up 
investigating rTMS efficacy as a treatment for AD found about 72% of 
participants in each group of active and sham were positively responsive to rTMS 
(using Magstim AirFilm active and sham coils). Since the used sham coil produced 
about 25.3% of the peak active stimulus, it was hypothesized it could evoke a 
measurable response in AD patients. This study looks at the details of the above 
study's sham responses to determine why and how such a response might occur and 
how cerebrovascular symptomatology may have impacted that response. In the 
above-mentioned study, 90 and 45 patients were randomly assigned to active and 
sham groups, respectively. Those with modified Hachinski Ischemic Scores (HIS) 
below and above 2 were labeled AD2 and ADcvd2, respectively. Analysis of the 
primary outcome measure ADAS-Cog score change from baseline to post-treatment 
and follow-ups showed the ADcvd2 in the sham group had a significantly 
(p = .034) greater improvement or less decline at post-treatment and follow-up 
sessions compared to the ADcvd2 in the active group. Additionally, the 
improvement of the ADcvd2 sham compared to those in the active group persisted 
longer. Also, there was a significant (p = .036) improvement for AD2 individuals 
in the active compared to AD2 sham stimulation group at 2-months post-treatment. 
Overall, the sham rTMS stimulus did evoke a measurable response which was more 
effective for ADcvd2 in sham than ADcvd2 in active support of a vascular 
mechanism likely linked to the shallower sham stimulus penetration.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/26331055251328355
PMCID: PMC11938491
PMID: 40143889

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


45. Front Neurosci. 2025 Mar 12;19:1553064. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1553064. 
eCollection 2025.

The role of intracellular and extracellular copper compartmentalization in 
Alzheimer's disease pathology and its implications for diagnosis and therapy.

Li YQ(#)(1)(2), Tan SS(#)(1)(2), Wu D(#)(3)(4), Zhang Q(5), Wang T(2), Zheng 
G(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Gansu University of Chinese Medicine, Lanzhou, 
China.
(2)School of Military Preventive Medicine and the Ministry of Education Key Lab 
of Hazard Assessment and Control in Special Operational Environment, Fourth 
Military Medical University, Xi'an, China.
(3)Research Institution, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University, 
Xi'an, China.
(4)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military 
Medical University, Xi'an, China.
(5)Center of Clinical Aerospace Medicine and Department of Aviation Medicine, 
Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Copper is a trace element indispensable for cellular physiology, integral to 
cellular redox balance, and a constituent of enzyme active sites, thereby 
playing a pivotal role in cellular physiological function. Concerning the 
pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the homeostatic balance of copper is 
perturbed both intracellularly and extracellularly. The copper-amyloid precursor 
protein (APP) complex facilitates the efflux of copper from cells, leading to 
intracellular copper depletion. Concurrently, extracellular copper associates 
with amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques, precipitating copper-enriched Aβ deposition and 
augmenting reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the brain tissue, which finally 
culminates in oxidative brain damage. The interaction between copper and APP 
enhances the α-secretase pathway of APP processing while suppressing the 
β-secretase pathway, resulting in an increased production of soluble APP (sAPP), 
which contributes to neuroinflammation in the brain tissue. Utilizing the 
affinity of copper for Aβ plaques, the application of chelating agents to 
sequester copper within the brain can mitigate neurodegeneration associated with 
AD pathology. Furthermore, the use of metal imaging techniques to detect copper 
in the brain offers a potential diagnostic tool for the early identification of 
AD.

Copyright © 2025 Li, Tan, Wu, Zhang, Wang and Zheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1553064
PMCID: PMC11936913
PMID: 40143849

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


46. Front Neurosci. 2025 Mar 12;19:1549230. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1549230. 
eCollection 2025.

Preclinical insights into gamma-tACS: foundations for clinical translation in 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Sánchez-Garrido Campos G(1), Zafra ÁM(1), Estévez-Rodríguez M(1), Cordones I(1), 
Ruffini G(2), Márquez-Ruiz J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Cell Biology, Pablo de Olavide 
University, Seville, Spain.
(2)Brain Modeling Department, Neuroelectrics Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

Gamma transcranial alternating current stimulation (gamma-tACS) represents a 
novel neuromodulation technique with promising therapeutic applications across 
neurodegenerative diseases. This mini-review consolidates recent preclinical and 
clinical findings, examining the mechanisms by which gamma-tACS influences 
neural oscillations, enhances synaptic plasticity, and modulates neuroimmune 
responses. Preclinical studies have demonstrated the capacity of gamma-tACS to 
synchronize neuronal firing, support long-term neuroplasticity, and reduce 
markers of neuroinflammation, suggesting its potential to counteract 
neurodegenerative processes. Early clinical studies indicate that gamma-tACS may 
improve cognitive functions and network connectivity, underscoring its ability 
to restore disrupted oscillatory patterns central to cognitive performance. 
Given the intricate and multifactorial nature of gamma oscillations, the 
development of tailored, optimized tACS protocols informed by extensive animal 
research is crucial. Overall, gamma-tACS presents a promising avenue for 
advancing treatments that support cognitive resilience in a range of 
neurodegenerative conditions.

Copyright © 2025 Sánchez-Garrido Campos, Zafra, Estévez-Rodríguez, Cordones, 
Ruffini and Márquez-Ruiz.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1549230
PMCID: PMC11936909
PMID: 40143845

Conflict of interest statement: GR works for and is a co-founder of 
Neuroelectrics and holds several patents in modeldriven non-invasive brain 
stimulation. The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in 
the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed 
as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that they were an 
editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. This had no 
impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


47. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2025 May;45(5):769-777. doi: 
10.1161/ATVBAHA.124.321809. Epub 2025 Mar 27.

Choroidal Neovascularization Is Suppressed With Activation of TREM2 in 
Mononuclear Phagocytes-Brief Report.

Yagi H(1)(2), Boeck M(1)(3), Neilsen K(1), Yang J(1), Ko M(1), Tomita Y(1)(2), 
Negishi K(2), Fu Z(1), Sun Y(1), Smith LEH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, MA (H.Y., M.B., K. Neilsen, J.Y., M.K., Y.T., Z.F., Y.S., L.E.H.S.).
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan 
(H.Y., Y.T., K. Negishi).
(3)Eye Center, Medical Center, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, 
Germany (M.B.).

BACKGROUND: Mononuclear phagocytes contribute to pathological angiogenesis in 
age-related macular degeneration, a leading worldwide cause of visual 
impairment. However, the mechanisms that orchestrate the functions of 
mononuclear phagocytes remain poorly understood. TREM2 (triggering receptor on 
myeloid cells 2) has been shown to be crucial for the activation of mononuclear 
phagocytes in atherosclerosis, fatty liver disease, and Alzheimer disease. The 
objective of this study was to investigate the role of TREM2 in pathological 
angiogenesis in age-related macular degeneration.
METHODS: C57BL/6J and Trem2 knockout mice were subjected to laser-induced 
choroidal neovascularization, a model of choroidal neovascular age-related 
macular degeneration. Purified bovine sulfatide and agonist anti-TREM2 antibody 
was used to activate TREM2 signaling. The expression of TREM2 or downstream 
signals were assessed with immunohistochemistry or real-time quantitative PCR. 
In vitro murine macrophage RAW264.7 cells were used to investigate the direct 
impact of sulfatide on inflammatory and phagocytic responses.
RESULTS: We found that pharmacological activation of TREM2 suppressed 
laser-induced choroidal neovessel formation. The activation of TREM2 in 
mononuclear phagocytes suppressed TNF (tumor necrosis factor) and subsequently 
promoted phagocytosis.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that activation of TREM2 in mononuclear 
phagocytes suppresses the proinflammatory response, promotes phagocytosis, and 
impedes choroidal neovessel formation. Our study provides insight into the 
critical role of TREM2 in pathological angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.124.321809
PMCID: PMC12017599
PMID: 40143815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


48. Cell Biochem Funct. 2025 Apr;43(4):e70072. doi: 10.1002/cbf.70072.

Estrogen G-Protein Coupled Receptor Antagonist G15 Promotes Tau Clearance in 2D 
and 3D Tauopathy Models.

Nishino MS(1)(2), Costa AJD(3), Bassani TB(1)(2), Stilhano RS(4), Ureshino 
RP(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, 
Diadema, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular and Translational Endocrinology, Escola Paulista de 
Medicina, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)National Center for Energy and Materials Research, Biosciences National 
Laboratory, Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Department of Physiological Sciences, Santa Casa de São Paulo School of 
Medical Sciences, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Several studies have investigated the efficacy of estrogen in age-related 
diseases, showing promising results in several models of neurodegeneration, such 
as Alzheimer's disease. Animal and cellular models indicate that estrogen and 
related compounds can reduce the accumulation of amyloid plaques and tau 
protein, which are associated with Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, it is crucial 
to develop appropriate models to study the neuroprotective effects of estrogen, 
and three-dimensional (3D) models have recently emerged as a viable alternative 
to animal testing. This study aimed to investigate the potential of 3D tauopathy 
models for drug testing, focusing on estrogen-related signaling. The results 
demonstrate that a scaffold-free neurospheroid with inducible tau protein 
expression allows for the observation of tau protein distribution throughout the 
spheroid. Moreover, the study found that the G-protein-coupled estrogen receptor 
antagonist, G15, reduced tau protein concentration in both 2D and 3D models. 
Thus, this study highlights the importance of estrogen-related compounds in 3D 
cultures, which could facilitate investigations into the mechanisms of action 
and the neuroprotective role of estrogen in neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cbf.70072
PMID: 40143384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2025 Mar 10;18(3):390. doi: 10.3390/ph18030390.

Oxytocin Protects PC12 Cells Against β-Amyloid-Induced Cell Injury.

Alanazi MM(1), Albaker AB(1), Alzaagi LA(1), Alsabhan JF(2), Alasmari F(1), 
Almutairi MM(1), Alharbi MS(1), Alasmari AF(1), Alqahtani F(1), Alsanea S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Pharmacy, King Saud 
University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, 
Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.

Background/Objectives: Neurodegenerative diseases, particularly Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), are characterized by progressive cognitive decline and 
non-cognitive symptoms that significantly affect health and quality of life. 
Beta-amyloid (Aβ) protein accumulation is a key factor in AD pathology, leading 
to neuronal damage. Oxytocin (OXT), a neuropeptide with neuroprotective 
potential, has garnered interest owing to its ability to mitigate neurotoxicity. 
We hypothesized that oxytocin could protect PC12 cells from Aβ-induced 
cytotoxicity through antioxidant effects and modulation of apoptotic pathways 
(i.e., mitochondrial and MAPK pathways). In this study, we aim to assess 
oxytocin's protective effects on cell viability, oxidative stress, mitochondrial 
function, and apoptotic signaling. Methods: PC12 cells were treated with Aβ25-35 
and pre-treated with varying oxytocin concentrations to assess cell viability, 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, and mitochondrial membrane potential. 
Western blotting was performed to analyze the effects on mitochondrial apoptosis 
and MAPK pathways. Results: Oxytocin treatment significantly improved cell 
viability in a dose-dependent manner and reduced Aβ-induced oxidative stress and 
mitochondrial dysfunction. Oxytocin-treated groups exhibited decreased ROS 
levels, increased mitochondrial membrane potential, and modulation of 
apoptosis-related proteins. Oxytocin upregulated phosphorylated ERK1/2 and Bcl-2 
while downregulating BAX and caspase-3, reducing the BAX/Bcl-2 ratio. 
Conclusions: Oxytocin effectively protects PC12 cells from Aβ-induced 
neurotoxicity, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent for AD. Further 
research is needed to clarify oxytocin's mechanisms and clinical implications in 
AD treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/ph18030390
PMCID: PMC11944556
PMID: 40143166

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


50. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2025 Mar 8;18(3):383. doi: 10.3390/ph18030383.

Huperzine A Production and Acetylcholinesterase Inhibition by Phlegmariurus 
taxifolius Cell Suspension Culture: A Comparative Study in Flasks and an Airlift 
Bioreactor.

Pérez Aguilar RDC(1), Rodríguez Salgado T(1), Cruz-Miranda OL(1), Soto Díaz 
AU(1), Zenil Rodríguez A(1), Bensaddek L(2), Carreño-Campos C(1), Villarreal 
ML(1), Ortiz-Caltempa A(1), Cardoso-Taketa AT(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Biotecnología, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de 
Morelos, Cuernavaca 62209, Mexico.
(2)Ecologie et Dynamique des Systèmes Anthropisés (EDYSAN UMR 7058 CNRS-UPJV), 
Université de Picardie Jules Verne, 80000 Amiens, France.

Background: The callus cultures from the fronds of the lycophyte Phlegmariurus 
taxifolius produce the huperzine A (HupA) alkaloid, which is used in Alzheimer's 
disease treatment. This study aimed to establish the growth kinetics and HupA 
production by the newly HupS21 cell line grown in 250 mL flasks and in a 2 L 
airlift bioreactor. Methods: Batch-type kinetics were carried out for 60 days in 
250 mL flasks and for 20 days in a 2 L airlift bioreactor. Measurements of dry 
weight (DW), specific growth rate (μ), doubling time (dt), pH, carbohydrate 
consumption, and HupA quantification were performed. The acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE) inhibitory assay of the HupS21 alkaloidal extract was determined. 
Results: The 250 mL flasks kinetic reached a maximum cell growth of 8.17 g/L DW, 
with a μ of 0.045 day-1 and a dt of 15.40 days. The maximum HupA production was 
of 2.03 μg/g DW at day 45. In the 2 L airlift reactor, a maximum growth of 16.70 
g/L DW, a μ of 0.062 day-1, a dt of 11.20 days, and HupA production of 2.48 μg/g 
DW at day 15 were obtained. The alkaloidal extract from the HupS21 cell line at 
100 μg/mL showed an AChE inhibitory activity of 85.6 ± 1.27%. Conclusions: The 
airlift reactor outperformed the flask cultures in maximum cell growth, specific 
growth rate, doubling time, and HupA production. To our knowledge, this research 
is the first report on the establishment of suspension cell cultures of P. 
taxifolius in shaken flasks and in an airlift bioreactor, providing a foundation 
for scaling up HupA production for pharmaceutical use.

DOI: 10.3390/ph18030383
PMCID: PMC11946177
PMID: 40143159

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


51. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2025 Mar 5;18(3):369. doi: 10.3390/ph18030369.

A New Era of Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptor Modulators in Neurological 
Diseases, Cancer and Drug Abuse.

Tsimpili H(1), Zoidis G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Division of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of 
Health Sciences, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 
Panepistimiopolis Zografou, 15771 Athens, Greece.

The cholinergic pathways in the central nervous system (CNS) play a pivotal role 
in different cognitive functions of the brain, such as memory and learning. This 
review takes a dive into the pharmacological side of this important part of CNS 
function, taking into consideration muscarinic receptors and cholinesterase 
enzymes. Targeting a specific subtype of five primary muscarinic receptor 
subtypes (M1-M5) through agonism or antagonism may benefit patients; thus, there 
is a great pharmaceutical research interest. Inhibition of AChE and BChE, 
orthosteric or allosteric, or partial agonism of M1 mAChR are correlated with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) symptoms improvement. Agonism or antagonism on 
different muscarinic receptor subunits may lessen schizophrenia symptoms 
(especially positive allosteric modulation of M4 mAChR). Selective antagonism of 
M4 mAChR is a promising treatment for Parkinson's disease and dystonia, and the 
adverse effects are limited compared to inhibition of all five mAChR. 
Additionally, selective M5 antagonism plays a role in drug independence 
behavior. M3 mAChR overexpression is associated with malignancies, and M3R 
antagonists seem to have a therapeutic potential in cancer, while M1R and M2R 
inhibition leads to reduction of neoangiogenesis. Depending on the type of 
cancer, agonism of mAChR may promote cancer cell proliferation (as M3R agonism 
does) or protection against further tumor development (M1R agonism). Thus, there 
is an intense need to discover new potent compounds with specific action on 
muscarinic receptor subtypes. Chemical structures, chemical modification of 
function groups aiming at action enhancement, reduction of adverse effects, and 
optimization of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics (DMPK) will be further 
discussed, as well as protein-ligand docking.

DOI: 10.3390/ph18030369
PMCID: PMC11945405
PMID: 40143145

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


52. Pharmaceutics. 2025 Mar 18;17(3):388. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17030388.

Targeting Neuroinflammation in Central Nervous System Diseases by Oral Delivery 
of Lipid Nanoparticles.

Zou Y(1)(2), Zhang J(3), Chen L(4), Xu Q(3), Yao S(1)(2), Chen H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China.
(2)Hubei Key Laboratory of Neural Injury and Functional Reconstruction, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, The Center for 
Biomedical Research, NHC Key Laboratory for Respiratory Diseases, Tongji 
Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Sciences and 
Technology, Wuhan 430074, China.
(4)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, The Central Hospital of Wuhan, 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 
430074, China.

Neuroinflammation within the central nervous system (CNS) is a primary 
characteristic of CNS diseases, such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and mental disorders. The excessive 
activation of immune cells results in the massive release of pro-inflammatory 
cytokines, which subsequently induce neuronal death and accelerate the 
progression of neurodegeneration. Therefore, mitigating excessive 
neuroinflammation has emerged as a promising strategy for the treatment of CNS 
diseases. Despite advancements in drug discovery and the development of novel 
therapeutics, the effective delivery of these agents to the CNS remains a 
serious challenge due to the restrictive nature of the blood-brain barrier 
(BBB). This underscores the need to develop a novel drug delivery system. Recent 
studies have identified oral lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) as a promising approach 
to efficiently deliver drugs across the BBB and treat neurological diseases. 
This review aims to comprehensively summarize the recent advancements in the 
development of LNPs designed for the controlled delivery and therapeutic 
modulation of CNS diseases through oral administration. Furthermore, this review 
addresses the mechanisms by which these LNPs overcome biological barriers and 
evaluate their clinical implications and therapeutic efficacy in the context of 
oral drug delivery systems. Specifically, it focuses on LNP formulations that 
facilitate oral administration, exploring their potential to enhance 
bioavailability, improve targeting precision, and alleviate or manage the 
symptoms associated with a range of CNS diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17030388
PMCID: PMC11944764
PMID: 40143051

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests. The 
synopsis image was created with Figdraw (www.figdraw.com).


53. Pharmaceutics. 2025 Mar 3;17(3):327. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17030327.

Editorial on Special Issue "The Therapy of Alzheimer's Disease: Towards a New 
Generation of Drugs".

Chaves S(1), Santos MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Química Estrutural, Institute of Molecular Sciences, Departamento 
de Engenharia Química, Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade de Lisboa, Av. 
Rovisco Pais 1, 1049-001 Lisboa, Portugal.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent age-dependent neurodegenerative 
disorder, leading to severe dementia [...].

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17030327
PMCID: PMC11945979
PMID: 40142990

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


54. Pharmaceutics. 2025 Feb 20;17(3):284. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17030284.

Emerging Role of Mesenchymal Stromal Cell and Exosome Therapies in Treating 
Cognitive Impairment.

Tew VK(1), Barathan M(1), Nordin F(1), Law JX(1), Ng MH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Cheras, Kuala Lumpur 56000, Malaysia.

Cognitive aging, characterized by the gradual decline in cognitive functions 
such as memory, attention, and problem-solving, significantly impacts daily 
life. This decline is often accelerated by neurodegenerative diseases, 
particularly Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Parkinson's Disease (PD). AD is marked 
by the accumulation of amyloid-beta plaques and tau tangles, whereas PD involves 
the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. Both conditions lead to severe 
cognitive impairment, greatly diminishing the quality of life for affected 
individuals. Recent advancements in regenerative medicine have highlighted 
mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) and their derived exosomes as promising 
therapeutic options. MSCs possess regenerative, neuroprotective, and 
immunomodulatory properties, which can promote neurogenesis, reduce 
inflammation, and support neuronal health. Exosomes, nanosized vesicles derived 
from MSCs, provide an efficient means for delivering bioactive molecules across 
the blood-brain barrier, targeting the underlying pathologies of AD and PD. 
While these therapies hold great promise, challenges such as variability in MSC 
sources, optimal dosing, and effective delivery methods need to be addressed for 
clinical application. The development of robust protocols, along with rigorous 
clinical trials, is crucial for validating the safety and efficacy of MSC and 
exosome therapies. Future research should focus on overcoming these barriers, 
optimizing treatment strategies, and exploring the integration of MSC and 
exosome therapies with lifestyle interventions. By addressing these challenges, 
MSC- and exosome-based therapies could offer transformative solutions for 
improving outcomes and enhancing the quality of life for individuals affected by 
cognitive aging and neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17030284
PMCID: PMC11945939
PMID: 40142948

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


55. Pharmaceutics. 2025 Feb 20;17(3):280. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17030280.

Trojan Horse Delivery Strategies of Natural Medicine Monomers: Challenges and 
Limitations in Improving Brain Targeting.

Lei K(1), Zhou L(2)(3), Dan M(1), Yang F(1), Jian T(1), Xin J(1), Yu Z(1), Wang 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Ya'an People's Hospital-West China Ya'an Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Ya'an 625000, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, 
China.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Quality Ensurance and Sustainable Use of Dao-Di 
Herbs, National Resource Center for Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100700, China.

Central nervous system (CNS) diseases, such as brain tumors, Alzheimer's 
disease, and Parkinson's disease, significantly impact patients' quality of life 
and impose substantial economic burdens on society. The blood-brain barrier 
(BBB) limits the effective delivery of most therapeutic drugs, especially 
natural products, despite their potential therapeutic effects. The Trojan Horse 
strategy, using nanotechnology to disguise drugs as "cargo", enables them to 
bypass the BBB, enhancing targeting and therapeutic efficacy. This review 
explores the applications of natural products in the treatment of CNS diseases, 
discusses the challenges posed by the BBB, and analyzes the advantages and 
limitations of the Trojan Horse strategy. Despite the existing technical 
challenges, future research is expected to enhance the application of natural 
drugs in CNS treatment by integrating nanotechnology, improving delivery 
mechanisms, and optimizing targeting characteristics.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17030280
PMCID: PMC11945504
PMID: 40142943

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


56. J Clin Med. 2025 Mar 14;14(6):1978. doi: 10.3390/jcm14061978.

Glucagon-like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonists: Exciting Avenues Beyond Weight Loss.

Sundararaman L(1), Gouda D(2), Kumar A(3), Sundararaman S(4), Goudra B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 Francis St., 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(2)Inspira Health Network, 155 Bridgeton Pike ste c, Mullica Hill, NJ 08062, 
USA.
(3)Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Karnataka Institute of 
Endocrinology and Research Bangalore, Binnamangala, Stage 1, Indiranagar, 
Bengaluru 560038, Karnataka, India.
(4)Prana Holistic Center for Fertility and Integrated Medicine, 74/198, 
St'Mary's Road, Opp. St' Mary's Church, Trustpakkam, Abiramapuram, Chennai 
600018, Tamil Nadu, India.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, Sidney Kimmel Medical College, Jefferson 
Health, 111 S 11th Street, #8280, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

The last two decades have proffered many remarkable choices in managing type 1 
and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Leading the list are glucagon-like peptide-1 
receptor agonists (GLP1RAs), the first of which, exenatide, was approved by the 
FDA in 2005. Two other major classes of drugs have also entered the market: 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors, commonly known as gliptins and 
approved in 2006, and sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors, with 
the first approval occurring in 2013. These drugs have revolutionized the 
treatment of diabetes. Additionally, on the horizon, the once-weekly basal 
insulin analog insulin icodec and the once-weekly combination of insulin icodec 
and semaglutide are expected to be available in the future. Beyond glycemic 
control, GLP1RAs have exhibited benefits in conditions associated with diabetes, 
including hypertension, dyslipidemia, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, as well as 
in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, 
emerging research suggests potential roles in certain types of cancer, 
infertility, and associative learning. Major cardiovascular events seem to be 
lower in patients on GLP1RAs. While some evidence is robust, other findings 
remain tenuous. It is important that clinicians are familiar with current 
research in order to provide optimal evidence-based care to patients. In the 
not-too-distant future, there may be a case to prescribe these drugs for 
benefits outside diabetes.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm14061978
PMCID: PMC11943310
PMID: 40142784

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


57. Medicina (Kaunas). 2025 Mar 20;61(3):547. doi: 10.3390/medicina61030547.

Targeting Neural Oscillations for Cognitive Enhancement in Alzheimer's Disease.

Palacino F(1), Manganotti P(1), Benussi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Unit, Department of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, 
University of Trieste, 34149 Trieste, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most prevalent form of dementia, is marked by 
progressive cognitive decline, affecting memory, language, orientation, and 
behavior. Pathological hallmarks include extracellular amyloid plaques and 
intracellular tau tangles, which disrupt synaptic function and connectivity. 
Neural oscillations, the rhythmic synchronization of neuronal activity across 
frequency bands, are integral to cognitive processes but become dysregulated in 
AD, contributing to network dysfunction and memory impairments. Targeting these 
oscillations has emerged as a promising therapeutic strategy. Preclinical 
studies have demonstrated that specific frequency modulations can restore 
oscillatory balance, improve synaptic plasticity, and reduce amyloid and tau 
pathology. In animal models, interventions, such as gamma entrainment using 
sensory stimulation and transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS), 
have shown efficacy in enhancing memory function and modulating 
neuroinflammatory responses. Clinical trials have reported promising cognitive 
improvements with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) and deep 
brain stimulation (DBS), particularly when targeting key hubs in memory-related 
networks, such as the default mode network (DMN) and frontal-parietal network. 
Moreover, gamma-tACS has been linked to increased cholinergic activity and 
enhanced network connectivity, which are correlated with improved cognitive 
outcomes in AD patients. Despite these advancements, challenges remain in 
optimizing stimulation parameters, individualizing treatment protocols, and 
understanding long-term effects. Emerging approaches, including transcranial 
pulse stimulation (TPS) and closed-loop adaptive neuromodulation, hold promise 
for refining therapeutic strategies. Integrating neuromodulation with 
pharmacological and lifestyle interventions may maximize cognitive benefits. 
Continued interdisciplinary efforts are essential to refine these approaches and 
translate them into clinical practice, advancing the potential for neural 
oscillation-based therapies in AD.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina61030547
PMCID: PMC11943909
PMID: 40142358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


58. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Mar 20;26(6):2804. doi: 10.3390/ijms26062804.

TBG096 Ameliorates Memory Deficiency in AD Mouse Model via Promoting 
Neurogenesis and Regulation of Hsc70/HK2/PKM2/LAMP2A Signaling Pathway.

Chen D(1), Fasina OB(1), Lin J(1), Zeng J(1), Manzoor M(1), Ohno H(2), Xiang 
L(1), Qi J(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Yu Hang Tang Road 
866, Hangzhou 310058, China.
(2)RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences, 1-7-22 Suehirocho, Tsutumiku, 
Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.

In previous studies, we isolated a series of novel gentisides with nerve growth 
factor (NGF)-mimic activities from Gentiana rigescens Franch and conducted 
continuous structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies. Recently, a lead 
compound named TBG096 was discovered with significant NGF-mimic activity, low 
toxicity, and ability to pass through the blood-brain barrier (BBB). At the cell 
level, TBG096 exerts NGF-mimic activity by regulation of heat-shock cognate 
protein 70 (Hsc70) and downstream proteins. Subsequently, high-fat diet 
(HFD)-induced Alzheimer disease (AD) mouse models were used to evaluate the 
anti-AD efficacy of the compound. TBG096 significantly improved the memory 
dysfunction of AD mice at doses of 0.1, 5, and 20 mg/kg, respectively. In order 
to elucidate the mechanism of action of the compound against AD, the 
RNA-sequence analysis of transcriptomics, quantitative real-time polymerase 
chain reaction (qRT-PCR), immunofluorescence staining, and Western blot analysis 
were performed using animal samples. TBG096 significantly increased the 
expression of the Wnt gene family (Wnt10b, Wnt5a, and Wnt1) and the number of 
mature neurons and newborn neurons in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of AD 
mice, respectively. At the same time, it reduced the activity of microglia, 
astrocyte cells, and expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (INOS) in the 
brain. Moreover, this compound significantly increased phosphorylated-adenosine 
5'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), Hsc70, and 
lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2a (LAMP2A) and decreased the expression 
of hexokinase 2 (HK2), pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2), amyloid precursor protein 
(APP), microtubule-associated protein tau (Tau), phosphoryl-Tau, and β-amyloid 
(Aβ) at the protein level. These results suggest that TBG096 produced the 
NGF-mimic activity and the anti-AD effect via promoting neurogenesis and 
modification of the Hsc70/HK2/PKM2/LAMP2A signaling pathway, proposing a 
potential novel approach to counteracting cognitive decline by developing small 
molecules that promote neurogenesis and the Hsc70 signaling pathway.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26062804
PMCID: PMC11943016
PMID: 40141445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest regarding the publication of this paper.


59. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Mar 17;26(6):2695. doi: 10.3390/ijms26062695.

Biofilm-Associated Amyloid Proteins Linked with the Progression of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Singh AA(1), Khan F(2)(3), Song M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan 38541, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Ocean and Fisheries Development International Cooperation Institute, Pukyong 
National University, Busan 48513, Republic of Korea.
(3)International Graduate Program of Fisheries Science, Pukyong National 
University, Busan 48513, Republic of Korea.

Biofilm-associated amyloid proteins have emerged as significant contributors to 
the progression of neurodegenerative diseases, representing a complex 
intersection of microorganisms and human health. The cross-beta sheet structure 
characteristic of amyloids produced by gut-colonizing bacteria remains intact, 
crucial for the resilience of biofilms. These amyloids exacerbate 
neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's by cross-seeding 
human amyloidogenic proteins like amyloid-beta and α-synuclein, accelerating 
their misfolding and aggregation. Despite molecular chaperones and heat shock 
proteins maintaining protein homeostasis, bacterial amyloids can overwhelm them, 
worsening neuronal damage. Genetic variations in chaperone genes further 
influence amyloidogenesis and neurodegeneration. Persistent bacterial infections 
and inflammation compromise the blood-brain barrier, allowing inflammatory 
molecules and amyloids to enter the brain, perpetuating the cycle of 
neurodegeneration. The gut-brain axis underscores the impact of dysbiosis and 
gut microbiota on brain function, potentially contributing to neurodegeneration. 
The enhancement of biofilm resilience and antibiotic resistance by functional 
amyloid fibrils complicates the treatment landscape. The interplay among 
chaperone systems, microbial amyloids, and neurodegenerative diseases 
underscores the urgent need for advanced treatment strategies targeting these 
pathways to attenuate disease progression. Understanding the processes that 
relate biofilm-associated amyloids to the onset of neurological disorders is 
critical for diagnosing and developing novel treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26062695
PMCID: PMC11942204
PMID: 40141340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


60. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Mar 15;26(6):2660. doi: 10.3390/ijms26062660.

Noradrenaline Synergistically Enhances Porphyromonas gingivalis LPS and 
OMV-Induced Interleukin-1β Production in BV-2 Microglia Through Differential 
Mechanisms.

Muramoto S(1), Shimizu S(1), Shirakawa S(1), Ikeda H(1), Miyamoto S(1), Jo M(1), 
Takemori U(1), Morimoto C(1), Wu Z(2), Tozaki-Saitoh H(3), Oda K(4), Inoue E(1), 
Nonaka S(5), Nakanishi H(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's University, Hiroshima 731-0153, Japan.
(2)Department of Aging Science and Pharmacology, Faculty of Dental Science, 
Kyushu University, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy at Fukuoka, 
International University of Health and Welfare, Okawa 831-8501, Japan.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's 
University, Hiroshima 731-0153, Japan.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's University, 
Hiroshima 731-0153, Japan.

Infection with Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg), which is a major periodontal 
pathogen, causes a large number of systemic diseases based on chronic 
inflammation such as diabetes and Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, it is not 
yet fully understood how Pg can augment local systemic immune and inflammatory 
responses during progression of AD. There is a strong association between 
depression and elevated levels of inflammation. Noradrenaline (NA) is a key 
neurotransmitter that modulates microglial activation during stress conditions. 
In this study, we have thus investigated the regulatory mechanisms of NA on the 
production of interleukin-1β (IL-1β) by microglia following stimulation with Pg 
virulence factors, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and outer membrane vesicles (OMVs). 
NA (30-1000 nM) significantly enhanced the mRNA level, promoter activity, and 
protein level of IL-1β up to 20-fold in BV-2 microglia following treatment with 
Pg LPS (10 μg/mL) and OMVs (150 μg of protein/mL) in a dose-dependent manner. 
Pharmacological studies have suggested that NA synergistically augments the 
responses induced by Pg LPS and OMVs through different mechanisms. AP-1 is 
activated by the β2 adrenergic receptor (Aβ2R)-mediated pathway. NF-κB, which is 
activated by the Pg LPS/toll-like receptor 2-mediated pathway, is required for 
the synergistic effect of NA on the Pg LPS-induced IL-1β production by BV-2 
microglia. Co-immunoprecipitation combined with Western blotting and the 
structural models generated by AlphaFold2 suggested that cross-coupling of NF-κB 
p65 and AP-1 c-Fos transcription factors enhances the binding of NF-κB p65 to 
the IκB site, resulting in the synergistic augmentation of the IL-1β promoter 
activity. In contrast, OMVs were phagocytosed by BV-2 microglia and then 
activated the TLR9/p52/RelB-mediated pathway. The Aβ2R/Epac-mediated pathway, 
which promotes phagosome maturation, may be responsible for the synergistic 
effect of NA on the OMV-induced production of IL-1β in BV-2 microglia. Our study 
provides the first evidence that NA synergistically enhances the production of 
IL-1β in response to Pg LPS and OMVs through distinct mechanisms.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26062660
PMCID: PMC11942402
PMID: 40141302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.61. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Mar 11;26(6):2480. doi: 10.3390/ijms26062480.

Comment on Wang et al. Simufilam Reverses Aberrant Receptor Interactions of 
Filamin A in Alzheimer's Disease. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023, 24, 13927.

Fluegge K(1), Fluegge K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Environmental Research, Columbus, OH 43216, USA.

Comment on
    Int J Mol Sci. 24:13927.

The authors have published their findings that simufilam, a small novel molecule 
suggested for clinical use in Alzheimer's disease (AD), restores a deleterious 
conformation of filamin A (FLNA), which is a large intracellular scaffolding 
protein, as indicated by changes in isoelectric focusing points [...].

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26062480
PMCID: PMC11942311
PMID: 40141124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


62. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Mar 9;26(6):2443. doi: 10.3390/ijms26062443.

Multi-Ancestry Transcriptome-Wide Association Studies of Cognitive Function, 
White Matter Hyperintensity, and Alzheimer's Disease.

Chaar DL(1), Li Z(2), Shang L(3), Ratliff SM(1), Mosley TH(4), Kardia SLR(1), 
Zhao W(1)(5), Zhou X(2), Smith JA(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(4)Memory Impairment and Neurodegenerative Dementia (MIND) Center, University of 
Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, MS 39216, USA.
(5)Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48104, USA.

Genetic variants increase the risk of neurocognitive disorders in later life, 
including vascular dementia (VaD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the precise 
relationships between genetic risk factors and underlying disease etiologies are 
not well understood. Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWASs) can be 
leveraged to better characterize the genes and biological pathways underlying 
genetic influences on disease. To date, almost all existing TWASs on VaD and AD 
have been conducted using expression studies from individuals of a single 
genetic ancestry, primarily European. Using the joint likelihood-based inference 
framework in Multi-ancEstry TRanscriptOme-wide analysis (METRO), we leveraged 
gene expression data from European ancestry (EA) and African ancestry (AA) 
samples to identify genes associated with general cognitive function, white 
matter hyperintensity (WMH), and AD. Regions were fine-mapped using Fine-mapping 
Of CaUsal gene Sets (FOCUS). We identified 266, 23, 69, and 2 genes associated 
with general cognitive function, WMH, AD (using EA GWAS summary statistics), and 
AD (using AA GWAS), respectively (Bonferroni-corrected alpha = p < 2.9 × 10-6), 
some of which had been previously identified. Enrichment analysis showed that 
many of the identified genes were in pathways related to innate immunity, 
vascular dysfunction, and neuroinflammation. Further, the downregulation of 
ICA1L was associated with a higher WMH and with AD, indicating its potential 
contribution to overlapping AD and VaD neuropathology. To our knowledge, our 
study is the first TWAS on cognitive function and neurocognitive disorders that 
used expression mapping studies for multiple ancestries. This work may expand 
the benefits of TWASs beyond a single ancestry group and help to identify gene 
targets for pharmaceuticals or preventative treatments for dementia.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26062443
PMCID: PMC11942532
PMID: 40141087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


63. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Mar 8;26(6):2433. doi: 10.3390/ijms26062433.

A Soluble Epoxide Hydrolase Inhibitor Improves Cerebrovascular Dysfunction, 
Neuroinflammation, Amyloid Burden, and Cognitive Impairments in the hAPP/PS1 
TgF344-AD Rat Model of Alzheimer's Disease.

Fang X(1), Border JJ(1), Zhang H(1), Challagundla L(2), Kaur J(2), Hwang SH(3), 
Hammock BD(3), Fan F(4), Roman RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Mississippi Medical 
Center, 2500 North State Street, Jackson, MS 39216, USA.
(2)Molecular and Genomics Facility, University of Mississippi Medical Center, 
Jackson, MS 39216, USA.
(3)Entomology and Nematology and UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of California Davis, Davis, CA 95616, USA.
(4)Physiology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, GA 
30912, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an increasing global healthcare crisis with few 
effective treatments. The accumulation of amyloid plaques and 
hyper-phosphorylated tau are thought to underlie the pathogenesis of AD. 
However, current studies have recognized a prominent role of cerebrovascular 
dysfunction in AD. We recently reported that SNPs in soluble epoxide hydrolase 
(sEH) are linked to AD in human genetic studies and that long-term 
administration of an sEH inhibitor attenuated cerebral vascular and cognitive 
dysfunction in a rat model of AD. However, the mechanisms linking changes in 
cerebral vascular function and neuroprotective actions of sEH inhibitors in AD 
remain to be determined. This study investigated the effects of administration 
of an sEH inhibitor, 
1-(1-Propanoylpiperidin-4-yl)-3-[4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl]urea (TPPU), on 
neurovascular coupling, blood-brain barrier (BBB) function, neuroinflammation, 
and cognitive dysfunction in an hAPP/PS1 TgF344-AD rat model of AD. We observed 
predominant β-amyloid accumulation in the brains of 9-10-month-old AD rats and 
that TPPU treatment for three months reduced amyloid burden. The functional 
hyperemic response to whisker stimulation was attenuated in AD rats, and TPPU 
normalized the response. The sEH inhibitor, TPPU, mitigated capillary 
rarefaction, BBB leakage, and activation of astrocytes and microglia in AD rats. 
TPPU increased the expression of pre- and post-synaptic proteins and reduced 
loss of hippocampal neurons and cognitive impairments in the AD rats, which was 
confirmed in a transcriptome and GO analysis. These results suggest that sEH 
inhibitors could be a novel therapeutic strategy for AD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26062433
PMCID: PMC11942141
PMID: 40141075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Xing Fang, Richard J. Roman, Fan Fan, Jane 
Border, Huawei Zhang, Jaslenn Kaur and Lavanya Challagundia declare no conflict 
of interest. Sung-Hee Hwang and Bruce D. Hammock are co-authors on patents 
regarding the use of sEH inhibitors to treat various diseases, including 
Alzheimer’s disease.


64. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Mar 8;26(6):2428. doi: 10.3390/ijms26062428.

Comparison of Deep Learning and Traditional Machine Learning Models for 
Predicting Mild Cognitive Impairment Using Plasma Proteomic Biomarkers.

Wang K(1)(2), Adjeroh DA(3), Fang W(4), Walter SM(5), Xiao D(6), Piamjariyakul 
U(5), Xu C(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biobehavioral Health & Nursing Science, College of Nursing, 
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Arnold School of Public Health, 
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.
(3)Lane Department of Computer Science & Electrical Engineering, West Virginia 
University, Morgantown, WV 26506, USA.
(4)West Virginia Clinical and Translational Science Institute, Morgantown, WV 
26506, USA.
(5)School of Nursing, Health Sciences Center, West Virginia University, 
Morgantown, WV 26506, USA.
(6)Department of STEM, School of Arts and Sciences, Regis College, Weston, MA 
02493, USA.
(7)Department of Health and Biomedical Sciences, College of Health Professions, 
University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, Brownsville, TX 78520, USA.

Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a clinical condition characterized by a 
decline in cognitive ability and progression of cognitive impairment. It is 
often considered a transitional stage between normal aging and Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). This study aimed to compare deep learning (DL) and traditional 
machine learning (ML) methods in predicting MCI using plasma proteomic 
biomarkers. A total of 239 adults were selected from the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) cohort along with a pool of 146 plasma proteomic 
biomarkers. We evaluated seven traditional ML models (support vector machines 
(SVMs), logistic regression (LR), naïve Bayes (NB), random forest (RF), 
k-nearest neighbor (KNN), gradient boosting machine (GBM), and extreme gradient 
boosting (XGBoost)) and six variations of a deep neural network (DNN) model-the 
DL model in the H2O package. Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator 
(LASSO) selected 35 proteomic biomarkers from the pool. Based on grid search, 
the DNN model with an activation function of "Rectifier With Dropout" with 2 
layers and 32 of 35 selected proteomic biomarkers revealed the best model with 
the highest accuracy of 0.995 and an F1 Score of 0.996, while among seven 
traditional ML methods, XGBoost was the best with an accuracy of 0.986 and an F1 
Score of 0.985. Several biomarkers were correlated with the APOE-ε4 genotype, 
polygenic hazard score (PHS), and three clinical cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers 
(Aβ42, tTau, and pTau). Bioinformatics analysis using Gene Ontology (GO) and 
Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) revealed several molecular 
functions and pathways associated with the selected biomarkers, including 
cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, cholesterol metabolism, and regulation 
of lipid localization. The results showed that the DL model may represent a 
promising tool in the prediction of MCI. These plasma proteomic biomarkers may 
help with early diagnosis, prognostic risk stratification, and early treatment 
interventions for individuals at risk for MCI.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26062428
PMCID: PMC11941952
PMID: 40141072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


65. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Mar 7;26(6):2397. doi: 10.3390/ijms26062397.

Next Generation Sequencing Analysis in Patients Affected by Parkinson's Disease 
and Correlation Between Genotype and Phenotype in Selected Clinical Cases.

Pilotto A(1)(2)(3), Carini M(4)(5), Bresciani R(4)(5), Monti E(4), Ferrari F(6), 
De Francesco MA(4)(5), Padovani A(1)(2)(3)(7), Biasiotto G(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, 25123 Brescia, Italy.
(2)Neurology Unit, Department of Continuity of Care and Frailty, ASST Spedali 
Civili Brescia University Hospital, 25123 Brescia, Italy.
(3)Laboratory of Digital Neurology and Biosensors, University of Brescia, 25123 
Brescia, Italy.
(4)Department of Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of Brescia, 
25123 Brescia, Italy.
(5)Highly Specialized Laboratory, ASST Spedali Civili of Brescia, 25123 Brescia, 
Italy.
(6)Pediatrics, Mother's and Baby's Health Department, Poliambulanza Foundation 
Hospital Institute, 25124 Brescia, Italy.
(7)Brain Health Center, University of Brescia, 25123 Brescia, Italy.

Parkinson's Disease (PD) is the most frequent movement disorder and is second 
only to Alzheimer's Disease as the most frequent neurodegenerative pathology. 
Early onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) is less common and may be characterized 
by genetic predisposition. NGS testing might be useful in the diagnostic 
assessment of these patients. A panel of eight genes (SNCA, PRKN, PINK1, DJ1, 
LRRK2, FBXO7, GBA1 and HFE) was validated and used as a diagnostic tool. A total 
of 38 in sequence EOPD patients of the Parkinson's Disease Unit of our Hospital 
Institution were tested. In addition, the number of the hexanucleotide repeats 
of the C9ORF72 gene and the frequency of main HFE mutations were evaluated. Six 
patients were carriers of likely pathogenic mutations in heterozygosity in the 
analyzed genes, one of them presented mutations in association and another had a 
complex genetic background. Their clinical symptoms were correlated with their 
genotypes. In the cohort of patients, only the p.Cys282Tyr of HFE was 
significantly decreased in the dominant model and allele contrast comparison. 
Only one patient with one allele of C9ORF72 containing 10 repeats was identified 
and clinically described. The clinical signs of sporadic and monogenic PD are 
often very similar; for this reason, it is fundamental to correlate genotypes 
and phenotypes, as we tried to describe here, to better classify PD patients 
with the aim to deepen our knowledge in the molecular mechanisms involved and 
collaborate in reaching a personalized management and treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26062397
PMCID: PMC11942189
PMID: 40141040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


66. Expert Rev Neurother. 2025 May;25(5):521-535. doi: 
10.1080/14737175.2025.2483928. Epub 2025 Apr 3.

Cholesterol-modifying strategies for Alzheimer disease: promise or fallacy?

Azarfar K(1), Decourt B(1), Sanchez Camacho B(2), Lawrence JJ(1), Omondi TR(1), 
Sabbagh MN(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Neurosciences, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Barrow Neurological Institute, St. Joseph's 
Hospital and Medical Center, Phoenix, AZ, USA.

INTRODUCTION: As the world population ages, Alzheimer disease (AD) prevalence 
increases. However, understanding of AD etiology continues to evolve, and the 
pathophysiological processes involved are only partially elucidated. One 
compound suspected to play a role in the development and progression of AD is 
cholesterol. Several lines of evidence support this connection, yet it remains 
unclear whether cholesterol-modifying strategies have potential applications in 
the clinical management of AD.
AREAS COVERED: A deep literature search using PubMed was performed to prepare 
this narrative review. The literature search, performed in early 2024, was 
inclusive of literature from 1990 to 2024. After providing an overview of 
cholesterol metabolism, this study summarizes key preclinical studies that have 
investigated cholesterol-modifying therapies in laboratory models of AD. It also 
summarizes past and current clinical trials testing specific targets modulated 
by anti-cholesterol therapies in AD patients.
EXPERT OPINION: Based on current epidemiological and mechanistic studies, 
cholesterol likely plays a role in AD etiology. The use of cholesterol-modifying 
therapies could be a promising treatment approach if administered at 
presymptomatic to early AD phases, but it is unlikely to be efficient in mild, 
moderate, and late AD stages. Several recommendations are provided for 
hypercholesterolemia management in AD patients.

DOI: 10.1080/14737175.2025.2483928
PMCID: PMC12068190
PMID: 40140971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interest: MN Sabbagh is a 
consultant for Alzheon, Athira, Biogen, Roche (Genentech), Eisai, Synaptogenix, 
NeuroTherapia, Cognito Therapeutics, Signant Health, and Novo Nordisk A/S. B 
Decourt is a consultant for Lighthouse Pharmaceuticals. The authors have no 
other relevant affiliations or financial involvement with any organization or 
entity with a financial interest in or financial conflict with the subject 
matter or materials discussed in the manuscript apart from those disclosed.


67. Transl Neurodegener. 2025 Mar 26;14(1):16. doi: 10.1186/s40035-025-00478-5.

Blood-brain barrier disruption: a pervasive driver and mechanistic link between 
traumatic brain injury and Alzheimer's disease.

Sun B(1), Li L(1), Harris OA(2)(3), Luo J(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Palo Alto Veterans Institute for Research, VA Palo Alto Health Care System, 
Palo Alto, CA, 94304, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, 94305, USA.
(3)Polytrauma System of Care, VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA, 
94304, USA.
(4)Palo Alto Veterans Institute for Research, VA Palo Alto Health Care System, 
Palo Alto, CA, 94304, USA. jluo@pavir.org.
(5)Polytrauma System of Care, VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA, 
94304, USA. jluo@pavir.org.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) has emerged as a significant risk factor for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), a complex and devastating neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by progressive cognitive decline and memory loss. Both conditions 
share a common feature: blood‒brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction, which is believed 
to play a pivotal role in linking TBI to the development of AD. This review 
delves into the intricate relationship between TBI and AD, with a focus on BBB 
dysfunction and its critical role in disease mechanisms and therapeutic 
development. We first present recent evidence from epidemiological studies 
highlighting the increased incidence of AD among individuals with a history of 
TBI, as well as pathological and animal model studies that demonstrate how TBI 
can accelerate AD-like pathology. Next, we explore the mechanisms by which BBB 
dysfunction may mediate TBI-induced AD pathology. Finally, we investigate the 
shared molecular pathways associated with BBB dysfunction in both TBI and AD 
conditions and discuss the latest findings on how targeting these pathways and 
employing regenerative approaches, such as stem cell therapy and pharmacological 
interventions, can enhance BBB function and mitigate neurodegeneration.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40035-025-00478-5
PMCID: PMC11938631
PMID: 40140960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest.


68. Nature. 2025 May;641(8063):749-758. doi: 10.1038/s41586-025-08740-6. Epub
2025  Mar 26.

A human brain map of mitochondrial respiratory capacity and diversity.

Mosharov EV(1)(2), Rosenberg AM(#)(1), Monzel AS(#)(1), Osto CA(3), Stiles L(3), 
Rosoklija GB(2)(4), Dwork AJ(2)(4)(5), Bindra S(1), Junker A(1), Zhang Y(6), 
Fujita M(6), Mariani MB(2)(4), Bakalian M(2)(4), Sulzer D(1)(2)(7), De Jager 
PL(6), Menon V(6), Shirihai OS(3), Mann JJ(2)(4), Underwood MD(2)(4), Boldrini 
M(2)(4), Thiebaut de Schotten M(8)(9), Picard M(10)(11)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Divisions of Molecular Therapeutics and Behavioral 
Medicine, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(2)New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Endocrinology, and Department of Molecular and 
Medical Pharmacology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California 
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Division of Molecular Imaging and Neuropathology, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University, New York, NY, 
USA.
(6)Center for Translational and Computational Neuroimmunology, Neuroimmunology 
Division, Department of Neurology and the Taub Institute for Research on 
Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Departments of Neurology and Pharmacology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(8)Brain Connectivity and Behaviour Laboratory, Paris, France. 
michel.thiebaut@gmail.com.
(9)Groupe d'Imagerie Neurofonctionnelle, Institut des Maladies 
Neurodégénératives-UMR 5293, CNRS, CEA University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France. 
michel.thiebaut@gmail.com.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Divisions of Molecular Therapeutics and Behavioral 
Medicine, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA. 
martin.picard@columbia.edu.
(11)New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, NY, USA. 
martin.picard@columbia.edu.
(12)Department of Neurology, H. Houston Merritt Center, Columbia Translational 
Neuroscience Initiative, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, 
NY, USA. martin.picard@columbia.edu.
(13)Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center, Columbia University Mailman School 
of Public Health, New York, NY, USA. martin.picard@columbia.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Nature. 2025 Jun;642(8067):E12. doi: 10.1038/s41586-025-09081-0.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Mar 07:2024.03.05.583623. doi: 10.1101/2024.03.05.583623.
    Res Sq. 2024 Mar 22:rs.3.rs-4047706. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-4047706/v1.

Mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) powers brain activity1,2, and 
mitochondrial defects are linked to neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric 
disorders3,4. To understand the basis of brain activity and behaviour, there is 
a need to define the molecular energetic landscape of the brain5-10. Here, to 
bridge the scale gap between cognitive neuroscience and cell biology, we 
developed a physical voxelization approach to partition a frozen human coronal 
hemisphere section into 703 voxels comparable to neuroimaging resolution 
(3 × 3 × 3 mm). In each cortical and subcortical brain voxel, we profiled 
mitochondrial phenotypes, including OXPHOS enzyme activities, mitochondrial DNA 
and volume density, and mitochondria-specific respiratory capacity. We show that 
the human brain contains diverse mitochondrial phenotypes driven by both 
topology and cell types. Compared with white matter, grey matter contains >50% 
more mitochondria. Moreover, the mitochondria in grey matter are biochemically 
optimized for energy transformation, particularly among recently evolved 
cortical brain regions. Scaling these data to the whole brain, we created a 
backwards linear regression model that integrates several neuroimaging 
modalities11 to generate a brain-wide map of mitochondrial distribution and 
specialization. This model predicted mitochondrial characteristics in an 
independent brain region of the same donor brain. This approach and the 
resulting MitoBrainMap of mitochondrial phenotypes provide a foundation for 
exploring the molecular energetic landscape that enables normal brain function. 
This resource also relates to neuroimaging data and defines the subcellular 
basis for regionalized brain processes relevant to neuropsychiatric and 
neurodegenerative disorders. All data are available at 
http://humanmitobrainmap.bcblab.com .

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-025-08740-6
PMID: 40140564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


69. Neurol Sci. 2025 Jul;46(7):3085-3095. doi: 10.1007/s10072-025-08135-5. Epub
2025  Mar 27.

Unveiling Gaps and Demographic Influences in Alzheimer's Therapy: A Data-Centric 
Study of FDA-Approved Late-Phase Clinical Trials.

Kalokhe VM(#)(1), Simran S(#)(1), Ahmad A(1), Musthafa F(1), Gangawane VS(1), 
Raghuvanshi RS(2), Srivastava S(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Regulatory Affairs, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER), Hyderabad, India.
(2)Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO), Ministry of Health & 
Family Welfare, Government of India, Directorate General of Health Services, New 
Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Regulatory Affairs, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER), Hyderabad, India. saurabh@niperhyd.ac.in.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education 
and Research (NIPER), Balanagar, Hyderabad, 500037, India. 
saurabh@niperhyd.ac.in.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease is more prevalent in women than in men. In this 
study, the author examined the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) completed 
phase 4 clinical trials associated with Alzheimer's. The research aims to 
evaluate the women's participation-to-prevalence ratio (PPR) for Alzheimer's 
disease.
METHOD: Using the FDA's publicly available clinical trial database, 45 Phase 4 
Alzheimer's trials from 2003 to 2019 were assessed. Further, the total PPR and 
yearly PPR value are calculated by dividing the percentage of women in clinical 
trials by the total percentage of women affected by Alzheimer's disease. The PPR 
value equal to 1 showcases the balanced participation of females in the Phase 4 
clinical trial and the diseased affected population.
RESULT: Out of 45 trials, 41 were completed and four were terminated. The gender 
data was unavailable for three trials. In 38 clinical trials associated with 
Alzheimer's disease, 4502 participants were enrolled. Among 4502, 2604 (57.84%) 
were found to be female and 1898 (42.15%) were male. The PPR for women was 0.80, 
reflecting an adequate representation of women participants in late-phase 
clinical trials. The yearly PPR reduction has been seen in female participants.
CONCLUSION: In the year-based PPR, the range was from 0.72-1.0. In the initial 
year, the range was 1, which was reduced to 0.72 in 2007. In total, 38 completed 
clinical trials, 18 trials used placebo treatment, and the gender ratio in 
placebo was adequate. More transparency is essential in gender concerning SAE in 
publicly available databases.

© 2025. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-025-08135-5
PMID: 40140189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. 
Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent to Publish: Not applicable. 
Competing Interests: The authors have no relevant financial or non-financial 
interests to disclose.


70. Gigascience. 2025 Jan 6;14:giaf021. doi: 10.1093/gigascience/giaf021.

EnrichDO: a global weighted model for Disease Ontology enrichment analysis.

Yang H(1), Fu H(1), Zhang M(1), Liu Y(1), He YO(2), Wang C(1), Cheng L(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Bioinformatics Science and Technology, Harbin Medical University, 
Harbin, Heilongjiang 150081, China.
(2)Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.
(3)National Health Commission (NHC) Key Laboratory of Molecular Probes and 
Targeted Diagnosis and Therapy, Harbin Medical University, Harbin 150028, China.

BACKGROUND: Disease Ontology (DO) has been widely studied in biomedical research 
and clinical practice to describe the roles of genes. DO enrichment analysis is 
an effective means to discover associations between genes and diseases. Compared 
to hundreds of Gene Ontology (GO)-based enrichment analysis methods, however, 
DO-based methods are relatively scarce, and most current DO-based approaches are 
term-for-term and thus are unable to solve over-enrichment problems caused by 
the "true-path" rule.
RESULTS: Here, we describe a novel double-weighted model, EnrichDO, which 
leverages the latest annotations of the human genome with DO terms and 
integrates DO graph topology on a global scale. Compared to classic enrichment 
methods (mainly for GO) and existing DO-based enrichment tools, EnrichDO 
performs better in both GO and DO enrichment analysis cases. It can accurately 
identify more specific terms, without ignoring the truly associated parent 
terms, as shown in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) case (AD ranked first). 
Moreover, both a simulated test and a data perturbation test validate the 
accuracy and robustness of EnrichDO. Finally, EnrichDO is applied to other types 
of datasets to expand its application, including gene expression profile 
datasets, a host gene set of microorganisms, and hallmark gene sets. Based on 
the findings reported here, EnrichDO shows significant improvement via all 
experimental results.
CONCLUSIONS: EnrichDO provides an effective DO enrichment analysis model for 
gaining insight into the significance of a particular gene set in the context of 
disease. To increase the usability of EnrichDO, we have developed an R-based 
software package, which is freely available through Bioconductor 
(https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/EnrichDO.html) or at 
https://github.com/liangcheng-hrbmu/EnrichDO.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press GigaScience.

DOI: 10.1093/gigascience/giaf021
PMCID: PMC11945307
PMID: 40139908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


71. Age Ageing. 2025 Mar 3;54(3):afaf064. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afaf064.

Fall risk stratification in older adults: low and not-at-risk status still 
associated with falls and injuries.

Montero-Odasso M(1)(2)(3), Pieruccini-Faria F(1)(3), Son S(2)(3), Carvalho de 
Abreu DC(3)(4), Hunter S(5), Liu JQ(3), Moore M(3)(6), Hezam A(3), van der Velde 
N(7)(8), Masud T(9), Ryg J(10), Petrovic M(11), Speechley M(2)(12).

Author information:
(1)Western University, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Department of 
Medicine, Division of Geriatric Medicine, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Western University, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Parkwood Institute, Gait and Brain Laboratory, London, Ontario, Canada.
(4)University of Sao Paulo, Department of Health Science, Ribeirão Preto Medical 
School, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Western University, Faculty of Health Sciences, School of Physiotherapy, 
London, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Western University, Faculty of Health Sciences, School of Kinesiology, 
London, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Amsterdam University Medical Centers, location Academic Medical Center, 
Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, North 
Holland, 1105 AZ, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, North Holland, 1081 HV, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(9)Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, Department of Geriatric Medicine, 
Nottingham, United Kingdom.
(10)Odense Universitetshospital, Department of Geriatric Medicine, Odense, 
Denmark.
(11)Section of Geriatrics, Department of Internal Medicine and Paediatrics, 
Ghent University, Corneel Heymanslaan 10, Ghent, Belgium.
(12)Western University Schulich Interfaculty Program in Public Health, London, 
Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Falls guidelines recommendations for individuals classified as 
'not-at-risk' range from no further actions to offering education and exercises. 
However, there is a scarcity of prospective studies analysing the rate of falls 
and injuries in this not-at-risk group to inform recommendations.
OBJECTIVE: To prospectively estimate the rate of falls and injuries in older 
adults considered 'not-at-risk' for falls.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Geriatric Medicine Clinics.
SUBJECTS: Community-dwelling older adults aged 65 and older.
METHODS: Falls risk stratification was operationalised by adapting the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention's Stopping Elderly Accidents, Deaths and 
Injuries algorithm. Associations of risk strata (screened not-at-risk vs. 
at-risk) with incident falls and injuries were estimated using incidence rate 
ratios [adjusted incident rate ratio (aIRR), Poisson regression model]. 
Associations between slow gait speed (<1 m/s) and injurious falls were estimated 
by risk strata using hazard ratios (adjusted hazard ratio, Cox and Poisson 
regression model).
RESULTS: Of 403 participants, 64% of at-risk individuals fell during the 
follow-up compared to 41.3% in the not-at-risk group, whilst injurious falls 
were reported by 63.2% of the not-at-risk group and by 59.7% of the at-risk 
group. At-risk individuals had a higher rate of falls (aIRR = 3.91, 95% CI: 
3.30-4.64, P < .001) but a similar rate of injurious falls as the not-at-risk 
individuals (aIRR = 1.26, 95% CI: 0.93-1.71; P = .11). Not-at-risk individuals 
with slow gait speed sustained injurious falls at twice the rate (aIRR = 1.83, 
95% CI: 1.12-3.91, P = .008) than those without slow gait speed.
CONCLUSIONS: Being screened as not-at-risk for falls does not mean no risk at 
all. Routinely and universally assessing gait speed could identify not-at-risk 
individuals who are likely to sustain injuries after a fall and could benefit 
from primary prevention.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afaf064
PMCID: PMC11942794
PMID: 40139220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MMO is president and member of the Executive 
Board of the Canadian Geriatrics Society, member of the Advisory Board of the 
CIHR Institute of Aging, and associate editor of the Journal of Alzheimer’s 
Disease, the Journal Gerontology Medical Sciences, and Geriatrics. MP is 
president and member of the Executive Board of the European Geriatric Medicine 
Society. TM is president elect and member of the Executive Board of the European 
Geriatric Medicine Society. NvdV is academic director of the Executive Board of 
the European Geriatric Medicine Society, and deputy editor-in-chief of Age and 
Aging. JR is a member of the Executive Committee of World Falls Prevention 
Society and academic board member of the European Geriatric Medicine Society.


72. Neuroepidemiology. 2025 Mar 26:1-13. doi: 10.1159/000545369. Online ahead of 
print.

Thyroid Disorders as a Risk Factor for Neurodegenerative Proteinopathies: A 
Large-Scale Propensity Score-Matched Analysis.

Toraih EA(1)(2)(3), Siddiqui S(4), Siddiqui S(4), Shirini K(5), Elfezzani N(6), 
Abdelmaksoud A(7), Elshazli RM(1)(8)(9), Hussein MH(10), Elmorsy EM(11), Fawzy 
MS(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Tulane University, New Orleans, 
Louisiana, USA.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Perfusion, Interprofessional Research, College 
of Health Professions, Upstate Medical University, New York, New York, USA.
(3)Genetics Unit, Histology and Cell Biology Department, Faculty of Medicine, 
Suez Canal University, Ismailia, Egypt.
(4)School of Medicine, Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisiana, USA.
(5)Division of Transplant Surgery, Department of Surgery, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(6)Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, New Orleans, Louisiana, 
USA.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, University of California, Riverside, 
California, USA.
(8)Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics Unit, Department of Basic Sciences, 
Faculty of Physical Therapy, Horus University - Egypt, New Damietta, Egypt.
(9)Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, New Mansoura 
University, New Mansoura City, Egypt.
(10)Ochsner Clinic Foundation, New Orleans, Louisiana, USA.
(11)Center for Health Research, Northern Border University, Arar, Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between thyroid disorders and neurodegenerative 
diseases remains poorly understood. This large-scale retrospective cohort study 
aimed to investigate the association between thyroid disorders and various 
neurodegenerative diseases, as well as the potential impact of thyroidectomy.
METHODS: We analyzed data from 3,719,666 patients with thyroid disorders and 
2,945,438 controls from 120 healthcare organizations (TriNetX database). After 
propensity score matching, each group included 2,033,096 patients. We compared 
the risk of neurodegenerative diseases between these groups and examined the 
effect of thyroidectomy in a subgroup analysis of 31,753 matched pairs.
RESULTS: Patients with thyroid disorders showed significantly higher risks of 
Alzheimer's disease (RR = 1.15, 95% CI: 1.110-1.195), Parkinson's disease (RR = 
1.25, 95% CI: 1.187-1.318), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (RR = 1.35, 95% CI: 
1.131-1.622), frontotemporal dementia (RR = 1.44, 95% CI: 1.219-1.702), Lewy 
body dementia (RR = 1.15, 95% CI: 1.107-1.186), progressive supranuclear palsy 
(RR = 1.41, 95% CI: 1.095-1.819), vascular dementia (RR = 1.32, 95% CI: 
1.266-1.369), Niemann-Pick disease type C (RR = 1.34, 95% CI: 1.092-1.638), and 
Wilson's disease (RR = 1.26, 95% CI: 1.056-1.507). Interestingly, the risk of 
multiple sclerosis was lower (RR = 0.80, 95% CI: 0.738-0.862). Thyroidectomy was 
associated with a 44.2% lower risk of Lewy body dementia (RR = 0.558, 95% CI: 
0.339-0.919, p = 0.020).
CONCLUSIONS: Thyroid disorders are significantly associated with an increased 
risk of several neurodegenerative diseases. Thyroidectomy may have a protective 
effect against Lewy body dementia. These findings suggest a complex relationship 
between thyroid function and neurodegeneration, emphasizing the need for 
neurological monitoring in patients with thyroid disorders and further research 
into thyroid-brain interactions.

© 2025 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000545369
PMID: 40139174


73. J Neuroimmunol. 2025 Jun 15;403:578589. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2025.578589. 
Epub 2025 Mar 18.

Effects of androgen modifying therapies on disease activity in older men with 
multiple sclerosis.

Zeydan B(1), Neyal N(2), Nathoo N(3), Rangachari M(4), Atkinson EJ(5), Son J(6), 
Conway BL(7), Tobin WO(8), Keegan BM(8), Weinshenker BG(9), Kantarci K(10), Oh 
J(11), Kantarci OH(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Department of 
Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Women's Health Research Center, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Center for Multiple Sclerosis and Autoimmune 
Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. Electronic address: 
zeydan.burcu@mayo.edu.
(2)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Department of 
Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Center for Multiple 
Sclerosis and Autoimmune Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Department 
of Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(4)Centre de recherche du CHU de Québec, axe Neurosciences, Université Laval, 
Québec City, QC, Canada; Faculté de médecine, Université Laval, Québec City, QC, 
Canada.
(5)Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Center for Multiple 
Sclerosis and Autoimmune Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Department of 
Neurology, University of Virginia, VA, USA.
(10)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Women's Health 
Research Center, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Anti-inflammatory properties of androgens were assessed in animal 
models, but only several clinical studies investigated the effects of androgen 
on multiple sclerosis (MS). Inflammatory activity in MS often attenuates with 
aging, and androgen modifying therapies (AMT), which mimic decreased androgen 
levels, are frequently used in older men. We aimed to investigate if the number 
of disease activity events would increase in older (≥55 years) male persons with 
MS (MPwMS) who are on AMT.
METHODS: MPwMS with AMT initiation ≥55 years (AMT; n = 60) and without AMT 
history (no-AMT; n = 80) were included from a clinical-based observational study 
cohort. Clinical (relapses), Radiological (new lesions), and Disease (relapses 
and/or new lesions) activity events were evaluated before and after the age at 
AMT initiation in AMT and no-AMT groups.
RESULTS: Age at MS onset, progressive MS rate and treatment frequencies were 
similar between the groups. When events before and after the age at AMT 
initiation (mean = 65.0 ± 7.0 years) were compared, there was a drop in the 
percentage of individuals with Clinical (38.5 % vs. 10 %), Radiological (46.2 % 
vs. 40 %) and Disease (62.8 % vs. 40 %) activity events in the no-AMT group. In 
the AMT group, the percentage of individuals with Clinical activity events was 
not as dramatically decreased (33.3 % vs. 22.2 %), Radiological activity events 
was increased (35.2 % vs. 46.7 %), and Disease activity events was sustained 
(51.9 % vs. 51.1 %). The probability of Disease activity was higher in the AMT 
group at 3 years of AMT initiation (40 % vs. 29 %) compared to the no-AMT group 
matched for disease duration, but the difference was not significant 
(p = 0.582).
CONCLUSIONS: Rather than the expected decrease in disease activity with age, 
MPwMS receiving AMT experienced sustained or increased disease activity, 
particularly at >65 years. Close clinical monitoring of MPwMS starting on these 
medications is necessary.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2025.578589
PMCID: PMC12048229
PMID: 40139128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest N. Neyal, N. 
Nathoo, E.J. Atkinson, J. Son, B.L. Conway and O.H. Kantarci have nothing to 
disclose. B. Zeydan receives funding from National Institutes of Health; 
received the Mayo Clinic Eugene and Marcia Applebaum Award and honorarium for 
consensus program from Merck. M. Rangachari has a research contract with Remedy 
Pharmaceuticals 2019–21 (funds to CHU de Québec) and carries out educational 
activities in Biogen Canada 2022. W.O. Tobin has received research grants from 
the National Institutes of Health, Mallinckrodt Inc., personal fees from DKBMed 
and book royalties from the publication of Mayo Clinic Cases in Neuroimmunology 
(Mayo Clinic Scientific Press) 2022. B.M. Keegan is funded by the Applebaum 
Family and is a member of the Center for Multiple Sclerosis and Autoimmune 
Research Mayo Clinic, receives publishing royalties for Common Pitfalls in 
Multiple Sclerosis and CNS Demyelinating Diseases, and is an Editorial Board 
member of Multiple Sclerosis and Related Disorders. B.G. Weinshenker receives or 
received payments for serving as chair of attack adjudication committees for 
clinical trials in neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders for Alexion, 
Medimmune, VielaBio/Horizon Therapeutics, and UCB Biosciences. He has consulted 
with Chugai, Genentech, Roche, Mitsubishi Tanabe and CANbridge pharmaceuticals 
regarding clinical trial designs for neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders. He 
has received speaking fees from Genentech, Horizon Therapeutics, Roche and 
Mitsubishi Tanabe. He has a patent for NMO-IgG for diagnosis of neuromyelitis 
optica, with royalties paid by Hospice Civil de Lyon, MVZ PD Dr. Volkmann und 
Kollegen GbR, Oxford University and RSR Limited. K. Kantarci consults for Biogen 
Inc.; receives research support from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly; is 
funded by the National Institutes of Health and Alzheimer's Drug Discovery 
Foundation. J. Oh has received grants from Biogen-Idec, Roche, and EMD-Serono 
and has received personal compensation for consulting or speaking from 
Biogen-Idec, EMD-Serono, BMS, Novartis, Eli-Lilly, Sanofi, and Roche.


74. J Neurol Sci. 2025 May 15;472:123474. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2025.123474. Epub
2025  Mar 21.

Reversible dementia due to hyperthyroidism: Cognitive impairment, delusions, and 
agitation resolved with antithyroid treatment.

Koyama G(1), Nakano M(2), Takata T(3), Kuramochi S(4), Koreki A(4), Ishida T(5), 
Uchida H(4), Funayama M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Ashikaga Red Cross Hospital, Tochigi, Japan; 
Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. 
Electronic address: genki@keio.jp.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Ashikaga Red Cross Hospital, Tochigi, Japan; 
Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Ashikaga Red Cross Hospital, Tochigi, Japan.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(5)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan; Tokyo Metropolitan Matsuzawa Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2025.123474
PMID: 40138854

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


75. Phytomedicine. 2025 Jun;141:156646. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156646. Epub
2025  Mar 19.

Ginkgo biloba Extract GBE50 ameliorates cerebrovascular dysfunction and 
cognitive impairment in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Yu T(1), Wei Z(2), Wang J(3), Song C(2), Huang W(2), Zhang P(2), Shi J(2), Zhang 
R(2), Jiang M(4), Wang D(4), Zhang Y(5), Chen H(6), Wang H(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200025, China; Department of 
Pharmacology, School of Basic Medical Sciences and Forensic Medicine, Hangzhou 
Medical College, Hangzhou 310053, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200025, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200025, China; Academy of Integrative 
Medicine, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai 201203, 
China.
(4)SPH XingLing Sci. & Tech. Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Shanghai 201203, China.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200025, China. Electronic address: 
182430@shsmu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200025, China; Academy of Integrative 
Medicine, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai 201203, 
China; Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Institute of Interdisciplinary 
Integrative Medicine Research, Shuguang Hospital, Shanghai University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai 201203, China. Electronic address: 
yaoli@shsmu.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200025, China; Academy of Integrative 
Medicine, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai 201203, 
China. Electronic address: angela_wanghao@sjtu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder in 
which neurovascular unit (NVU) dysfunction plays a critical role. GBE50, a 
refined extract of Ginkgo biloba containing over 50 % total flavonoids and 
terpene lactones, is widely used in the clinical prevention and treatment of 
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases due to its anti-platelet 
aggregation, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant properties. However, its 
specific effects on NVU integrity and cerebrovascular function in AD remain 
unclear.
PURPOSE: This study aims to investigate the therapeutic effects of GBE50 on NVU 
integrity and cognitive impairment in an AD mouse model.
METHODS: APP/PS1 transgenic mice were treated with GBE50 via intragastric 
administration for 10 weeks. Cognitive performance was assessed through 
behavioral tests, while the structural and functional integrity of the NVU was 
evaluated using immunofluorescence, laser speckle imaging, and in vivo 
multi-photon imaging. Furthermore, target prediction and transcriptomic analyses 
were conducted to uncover potential molecular mechanisms and identify specific 
targets of GBE50.
RESULTS: GBE50 treatment significantly alleviated cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 
mice. It enhanced cerebrovascular structure and function by increasing vessel 
density, diameter, and branching, leading to improved cerebral blood flow (CBF). 
GBE50 also restored NVU components such as endothelial cells, astrocytes, and 
pericytes, promoted parenchyma and perivascular Aβ clearance, and reduced 
neuroinflammation. Bioinformatics and transcriptomic analyses revealed that 
GBE50 exerted its effects by regulating pathways related to vascular repair, 
neuroprotection, and Aβ clearance.
CONCLUSION: The findings demonstrate that GBE50 improves cognitive dysfunction 
in AD by restoring NVU integrity and cerebrovascular function through 
multi-target mechanisms. This study highlights the potential of GBE50 as a 
promising therapeutic approach for AD and other neurodegenerative diseases 
involved in cerebrovascular dysfunction.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156646
PMID: 40138777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could appeare to influence the work reported in this paper.


76. Curr Opin Immunol. 2025 Jun;94:102552. doi: 10.1016/j.coi.2025.102552. Epub
2025  Mar 25.

Harnessing microglia-based cell therapies for the treatment of neurodegenerative 
diseases.

Walsh AE(1), Lukens JR(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Brain Immunology and Glia (BIG), Department of Neuroscience, 
University of Virginia (UVA), Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA; Molecular 
Physiology and Biological Physics Graduate Program, UVA, Charlottesville, VA 
22908, USA; Biotechnology Training Program, UVA, Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA.
(2)Center for Brain Immunology and Glia (BIG), Department of Neuroscience, 
University of Virginia (UVA), Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA; Molecular 
Physiology and Biological Physics Graduate Program, UVA, Charlottesville, VA 
22908, USA; Biotechnology Training Program, UVA, Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA. 
Electronic address: jrl7n@virginia.edu.

Given the growing evidence linking microglia to the onset and progression of 
various neurodegenerative diseases, these brain-resident macrophages have 
emerged as a promising cell type for targeted therapeutic interventions. This 
review highlights recent studies that utilized innovative, microglia-focused 
strategies for the treatment of diverse neurodegenerative disorders including 
lysosomal storage disorders, granulin frontotemporal dementia, and Alzheimer's 
disease. Cutting-edge therapeutic strategies range from replacing faulty 
microglia with peripheral macrophage precursors or induced human pluripotent 
stem cell-derived microglia to engineering microglia that target toxic 
aggregates or deliver remediating payloads. We also examine the potential 
limitations as well as the clinical benefits of these strategies.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coi.2025.102552
PMCID: PMC12086047
PMID: 40138748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interests.


77. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):56-61. doi: 10.1177/13872877251325878. Epub
 2025 Mar 26.

Lifespan of male and female APP/PS1 and APP(NL-F/NL-F) mouse models of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Roberts H(1), Fang Y(1), Quinn K(1), Hill T(1), Peck MR(1), Bartke A(2)(3), 
Hascup KN(1)(3)(4), Hascup ER(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Institute, Dale and Deborah Smith Center for Alzheimer's 
Research and Treatment, Departments of Neurology, Southern Illinois University 
School of Medicine, Springfield, IL, USA.
(2)Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield, IL, USA.
(3)Medical Microbiology, Immunology and Cell Biology, Southern Illinois 
University School of Medicine, Springfield, IL, USA.
(4)Pharmacology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, Springfield, 
IL, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Oct 18:2024.10.15.618508. doi: 10.1101/2024.10.15.618508.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) disproportionately affects women, yet most preclinical 
research studies are male-centric. We performed lifespan analyses of male and 
female AD mouse models (APP/PS1 and APPNL-F/NL-F) and their shared genetic 
background control (C57BL/6). Survival curves support significant sex 
differences between genotypes. Minimal longevity revealed increased age in male 
APP/PS1, and decreased age in male APPNL-F/NL-F mice. Maximal longevity revealed 
an increased average age in males. Furthermore, median lifespan differed between 
sex and genotype. This study supports dimorphic survival in two mouse models of 
AD, emphasizing the need to examine mechanisms and treatments in both sexes.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251325878
PMCID: PMC12376845
PMID: 40138433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: ER Hascup is an 
Editorial Board Member of this journal but was not involved in the peer-review 
process of this article nor had access to any information regarding its 
peer-review.The remaining authors declared no potential conflicts of interest 
with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


78. PLoS One. 2025 Mar 26;20(3):e0320636. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0320636. 
eCollection 2025.

Naturido alleviates amyloid β1-42-induced adverse effects in a transgenic 
Caenorhabditis elegans model of Alzheimer's disease.

Sillapakong P(1), Wakabayashi T(2), Suzuki K(1).

Author information:
(1)Biococoon Laboratories, Inc., Morioka, Iwate, Japan.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science and 
Engineering, Iwate University, Morioka, Iwate, Japan.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder primarily 
associated with aging. While the amyloid hypothesis is not the only explanation 
for AD pathogenesis, it is widely recognized that the accumulation of amyloid β 
(Aβ) protein triggers pathological changes in the brains of patients. In a 
previous study, we showed that Naturido, a cyclic peptide derived from the 
medicinal fungus (Isaria japonica) grown on domestic silkworms (Bombyx mori), 
could reverse several age-related deficits in senescence-accelerated mice. In 
this study, we explored the potential of Naturido to reduce Aβ-related toxicity 
in transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans models of AD, where human Aβ1-42 protein is 
overexpressed in neurons. Our results demonstrated that Naturido administration 
alleviated various phenotypes, including Aβ-induced impairment in associative 
learning, serotonin hypersensitivity, and locomotion in the transgenic C. 
elegans. These findings suggest the potential of Naturido as a candidate 
molecule for the prevention and/or treatment of AD.

Copyright: © 2025 Sillapakong et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0320636
PMCID: PMC11940425
PMID: 40138382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have reviewed the journal’s policy 
and disclose the following competing interests: PS and KS are paid employees of 
DKS Co., Ltd. (the parent company of Biococoon Laboratories, Inc.). This does 
not affect our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. 
There are no products in development or marketing to declare.


79. Neurochem Res. 2025 Mar 26;50(2):126. doi: 10.1007/s11064-025-04375-1.

Celastrol Ameliorated Alzheimer's Disease in Mice by Enhancing TBX21/TREM2 
Expression in Microglia and Inhibiting Tau Phosphorylation.

Cao F(1)(2), Zhang P(3), Chi Y(2), Wang Y(2), Xu L(4), Zhang D(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Gongli Hospital Medical Technology, University of Shanghai for 
Science and Technology, No. 516, Jungong Rd., Yangpu District, Shanghai, 200093, 
PR China.
(2)Shanghai Health Commission Key Lab of Artificial Intelligence (AI)-Based 
Management of Inflammation and Chronic Diseases, Department of Central 
Laboratory, Gongli Hospital of Shanghai Pudong New Area, No. 207, Juye Rd., 
Pudong New District, Shanghai, 200135, PR China.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Gongli Hospital of Shanghai Pudong New 
Area, No. 207, Juye Rd., Pudong New District, Shanghai, 200135, PR China.
(4)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Gongli Hospital of Shanghai Pudong New 
Area, No. 207, Juye Rd., Pudong New District, Shanghai, 200135, PR China. 
xulimin_shanghai@163.com.
(5)Shanghai Health Commission Key Lab of Artificial Intelligence (AI)-Based 
Management of Inflammation and Chronic Diseases, Department of Central 
Laboratory, Gongli Hospital of Shanghai Pudong New Area, No. 207, Juye Rd., 
Pudong New District, Shanghai, 200135, PR China. shanghaiglhospital@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder that is 
typified by the formation of senile plaques containing Aβ and neurofibrillary 
tangles containing tau in a hyperphosphorylated state. Celastrol, a natural 
compound, has proven effective in alleviating AD pathology by enhancing 
autophagy and reducing tau aggregates. The present study investigates the 
neuroprotective mechanisms of celastrol, with a particular focus on the 
participation of the transcription factor T-box transcription factor 21 (TBX21) 
and triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) in microglial 
cells. In AD mouse models, celastrol upregulated TBX21 and TREM2, suppressed 
phosphorylated tau and inflammatory cytokines, and restored neuronal viability. 
In vitro, celastrol-treated microglia enhanced neuronal survival under 
amyloid-beta (Aβ) stress, effects abolished by TBX21/TREM2 knockdown. 
Mechanistically, TBX21 directly bound the TREM2 promoter to regulate its 
expression. These findings identified the TBX21-TREM2 axis as a therapeutic 
target for AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-025-04375-1
PMID: 40138096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


80. J Neurol. 2025 Mar 26;272(4):293. doi: 10.1007/s00415-025-12990-9.

Analysis of C9orf72 repeat length in progressive supranuclear palsy, 
corticobasal syndrome, corticobasal degeneration, and atypical parkinsonism.

Vaughan DP(1)(2), Real R(1)(2), Jensen MT(1)(2), Fumi RG(1)(2), Hodgson M(1)(2), 
Jabbari E(1)(2), Lux D(1)(2), Wu L(1)(2); PROSPECT consortium; MD-GAP; Warner 
TT(1)(2), Jaunmuktane Z(2)(3), Revesz T(3)(4), Rowe JB(5), Rohrer J(6), Morris 
HR(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, UCL Queen Square Institute 
of Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(2)Movement Disorders Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(3)Queen Square Brain Bank, Reta Lila Weston Institute of Neurological Studies, 
UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London, UK.
(4)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
University College London, London, UK.
(5)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS 
Trust, and MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.
(6)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(7)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, UCL Queen Square Institute 
of Neurology, University College London, London, UK. h.morris@ucl.ac.uk.
(8)Movement Disorders Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK. h.morris@ucl.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Pathogenic hexanucleotide repeat expansions in C9orf72 are the 
commonest genetic cause of frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis. There is growing interest in intermediate repeat expansions in 
C9orf72 and their relationship to a wide range of neurological presentations, 
including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear 
palsy, corticobasal degeneration, and corticobasal syndromes.
AIMS: To assess the prevalence of intermediate C9orf72 repeat expansions in a 
large cohort of prospectively-recruited patients clinically diagnosed with 
progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal syndrome (CBS), and atypical 
parkinsonism (APS), compared with healthy controls. We also sought to replicate 
the association between C9orf72 repeat length and CBD in neuropathologically 
confirmed cases.
METHODS: 626 cases, including PSP (n = 366), CBS (n = 130), and APS (n = 53) 
from the PROSPECT study, and 77 cases with pathologically confirmed CBD were 
screened for intermediate repeat expansions in C9orf72 using repeat-primed PCR. 
These were compared to controls from the PROSPECT-M-UK study and from the 1958 
Birth Cohort.
RESULTS: There was no difference in the mean or largest allele size in any 
affected patient group compared with controls. A higher proportion of our 
affected cohort had large C9orf72 repeat expansions compared to controls, but 
there was no difference when comparing the frequency of intermediate expansions 
between affected patients and controls. There was no relationship between repeat 
length and age at onset, level of disability, or survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Intermediate expansions in C9orf72 do not appear to be a genetic 
risk factor for PSP, CBS, CBD, or atypical parkinsonism. They are not associated 
with age at onset, disability, or survival in our study.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-025-12990-9
PMCID: PMC11947049
PMID: 40138021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: Dr Morris 
is employed by UCL. In the last 12 months he reports paid consultancy from 
Aprinoia and AI Therapeutics; lecture fees/honoraria - Movement Disorders 
Society. Research Grants from Parkinson’s UK, Cure Parkinson’s Trust, PSP 
Association, Medical Research Council, Michael J Fox Foundation. Dr Morris is a 
co-applicant on a patent application related to C9orf72 - Method for diagnosing 
a neurodegenerative disease (PCT/GB2012/052140).


81. J Physiol Pharmacol. 2025 Feb;76(1). doi: 10.26402/jpp.2025.1.04. Epub 2025
Mar  18.

Etomidate ameliorates Alzheimer-like neuropathology and cognitive impairment in 
APP/PS1 mice.

Liu H(1), Zhou J(2), Yang WW(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Mianyang 404 Hospital, Mianyang City, Sichuan 
Province, 621000, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Huai'an People's Hospital of Hongze District, 
Huai'an City, Jiangsu Province, 223100, China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Xi'an No.9 Hospital, Xi'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, 710054, China. yangww1785@outlook.com.

To investigate the effect and mechanism of etomidate on attenuating 
Alzheimer-like neuropathology and cognitive impairment in mice with Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). AD was modeled in vivo using amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 
1 (APP/PS1) mice. After etomidate treatment, behavioral experiments and 
histopathological observation of hippocampus were performed. Hippocampal Aβ 
deposition was detected using immunofluorescence. AD was modeled in vitro using 
a HT22 cells which are an immortalized cell line derived from primary mouse 
hippocampal neurons induced by Aβ1-42. Cell viability, apoptosis rate and LDH 
release were detected after etomidate intervention. Synaptic proteins were 
detected by mmunofluorescence or Western blot, and neurotransmitters and 
inflammatory factors were detected by ELISA. Etomidate improved the memory 
ability, novel object cognition ability, and spatial learning of APP/PS1 mice. 
The improvement of cognitive function and memory ability may be due to the 
recovery effect of etomidate on hippocampal pathological changes in APP/PS1 
mice, including reducing Aβ deposition, neuron and synaptic loss. Etomidate also 
regulated neuroinflammation and the release of neurotransmitters GABA and 5-HT 
in APP/PS1 mice. Etomidate effectively reversed Aβ1-42-induced hippocampal 
neuronal damage, which was reflected in the improvement of cell viability and 
the inhibition of cytotoxicity, apoptosis and pro-inflammatory factors. 
Etomidate reversed the inhibition of the expression of synaptophysin (SYP) and 
postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95) induced by Aβ1-42 in vitro. After 
etomidate intervention, the expression of serotonin 1A receptor (5HT1A) and 
gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor subunit alpha1 (GABRA1) in 
Aβ1-42-injured HT22 cells were up-regulated, and free calcium ion was increased. 
In conclusion, etomidate ameliorates Alzheimer-like neuropathology and cognitive 
impairment in APP/PS1 mice, indicating that etomidate may be a potentially 
useful drug for the treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.26402/jpp.2025.1.04
PMID: 40137847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Toxics. 2025 Mar 8;13(3):193. doi: 10.3390/toxics13030193.

The Neurobehavioral Impact of Zinc Chloride Exposure in Zebrafish: Evaluating 
Cognitive Deficits and Probiotic Modulation.

Ene M(1), Savuca A(2)(3), Ciobica AS(1)(3)(4)(5)(6), Jijie R(7), Gurzu IL(8), 
Hritcu LD(9), Chelaru IA(2)(3), Plavan GI(1), Nicoara MN(1), Gurzu B(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Biology, "Alexandru Ioan Cuza" University 
of Iasi, Carol I Avenue, 20A, 700505 Iasi, Romania.
(2)Doctoral School of Geosciences, Faculty of Geography and Geology, "Alexandru 
Ioan Cuza" University of Iasi, Carol I Avenue, 20A, 700505 Iasi, Romania.
(3)Doctoral School of Biology, Faculty of Biology, "Alexandru Ioan Cuza" 
University of Iasi, Carol I Avenue, 20A, 700505 Iasi, Romania.
(4)Academy of Romanian Scientists, Splaiul Independentei Avenue No. 54, Sector 
5, 050094 Bucharest, Romania.
(5)Center of Biomedical Research, Romanian Academy, Carol I Avenue, No. 8, 
700505 Iasi, Romania.
(6)"Ion Haulica" Institute, Apollonia University, Păcurari Street 11, 700511 
Iasi, Romania.
(7)Research Center on Advanced Materials and Technologies, Department of Exact 
and Natural Sciences, Institute of Interdisciplinary Research, "Alexandru Ioan 
Cuza" University of Iasi, 700506 Iasi, Romania.
(8)Department of Preventive Medicine and Interdisciplinarity, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Medicine and Pharmacy "Grigore T. Popa", 16th 
Universitatii Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(9)Internal Medicine Clinic, "Ion Ionescu de la Brad" University of Life 
Sciences, Sadoveanu Alley No. 3, 700490 Iasi, Romania.
(10)Department of Morfofunctional Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, "Grigore T. 
Popa" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 16th Universitatii Street, 700115 
Iasi, Romania.

Zinc contamination in aquatic environments has become a growing concern due to 
its potential to bioaccumulate and induce neurotoxic effects in aquatic 
organisms. As an essential trace element, zinc plays a crucial role in various 
physiological processes, but excessive exposure can disrupt the gut-brain axis, 
leading to cognitive and behavioral impairments. Recent studies have suggested 
that probiotics may offer protective effects against environmental neurotoxins 
by modulating the gut microbiota and associated neurological functions. The 
zebrafish (Danio rerio) has emerged as a valuable model organism for studying 
the biological mechanisms underlying neurotoxicity and potential therapeutic 
interventions. This study aimed to assess the effects of probiotics on cognitive 
impairments induced by zinc chloride (ZnCl2) exposure in zebrafish. 
Specifically, zebrafish were exposed to ZnCl2 at concentrations of 0.5 mg/L and 
1.0 mg/L for 96 h, followed by a 7-day post-exposure period to probiotics 
(Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium animalis lactis, Lactobacillus 
rhamnosus). ZnCl2 exposure at these concentrations is already known to induce 
behavioral and neuromotor deficits resembling Alzheimer's disease-like symptoms 
in zebrafish models, making it a suitable model for evaluating the 
neuroprotective potential of probiotics. Behavioral assessments including 
sociability tests along with short- and long-term memory evaluations were 
conducted using EthoVision XT 16 software. Memory tests demonstrated that ZnCl2 
exposure impaired cognitive functions, while probiotic treatment did not 
significantly ameliorate these deficits. In the social behavior test, ZnCl2 at 
0.5 mg/L resulted in a marked decrease in sociability, whereas exposure to 1.0 
mg/L did not induce significant changes. However, post-exposure probiotic 
administration following ZnCl2 intoxication at 1.0 mg/L exhibited an anxiolytic 
effect on zebrafish. These findings suggest that probiotics may exhibit partial 
neurobehavioral benefits following zinc chloride-induced toxicity, particularly 
in mitigating anxiety-like behaviors rather than cognitive deficits. Further 
investigations are needed to elucidate the precise mechanisms by which 
probiotics interact with the gut-brain axis in the context of heavy metal 
neurotoxicity.

DOI: 10.3390/toxics13030193
PMCID: PMC11945970
PMID: 40137520

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


83. J Pers Med. 2025 Feb 25;15(3):82. doi: 10.3390/jpm15030082.

The Influence of a Specialized Dementia Ward on the Treatment of Alzheimer's 
Disease Patients.

Yang Y(1), Huh K(2), Kwak YT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Soonchunhyang University, 
Cheonan Hospital, Cheonan 31151, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Hyoja Geriatric Hospital, Yongin 17089, Republic of 
Korea.

Background: Hospitalization for severe neuropsychiatric symptoms in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) presents challenges, often requiring environments that ensure 
safety while addressing therapeutic needs. Traditional closed wards, originally 
designed for psychiatric conditions like schizophrenia, may not fully address 
the unique needs of AD patients. This study evaluates the effectiveness of a 
Specialized Dementia Ward (SDW) tailored for AD patients compared to a General 
Ward (GW). Methods: A retrospective study compared 51 AD patients in an SDW 
(February 2018-January 2019) and 40 AD patients in a GW (December 2017-January 
2018). Patients met NINCDS-ADRDA criteria, with a Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) 
≤ 2 and a Korean Mini-Mental State Examination (K-MMSE) ≤ 20. Clinical 
assessments at admission and four weeks included K-MMSE, Resident Assessment 
Instrument Minimum Data Set Version 2.0 (RAI-MDS), and Neuropsychiatric 
Inventory Questionnaire (NPI-Q). Psychotropic medication use, length of stay, 
and discharge destination were also analyzed. Results: No statistically 
significant differences emerged between SDW and GW groups regarding baseline 
demographics, cognitive function, ADL, or neuropsychiatric symptoms. At four 
weeks, both groups exhibited trends toward improved K-MMSE, RAI-MDS, and NPI-Q 
scores and reduced psychotropic usage, but these did not reach statistical 
significance. Although mean length of stay was shorter for SDW patients (3.2 vs. 
4.9 months; p = 0.078), the difference was not significant. Notably, a 
significantly higher proportion of SDW patients were discharged home (58.8% vs. 
37.5%; p = 0.049). Conclusions: Although clinical outcomes were comparable, the 
SDW demonstrated advantages in facilitating discharge to home, suggesting that 
tailored ward environments may better support AD patients. These findings 
underscore the importance of therapeutic environments in dementia care and 
highlight the need for further research on specialized dementia ward designs to 
improve outcomes and patient satisfaction.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm15030082
PMCID: PMC11942896
PMID: 40137398

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


84. Mar Drugs. 2025 Feb 20;23(3):91. doi: 10.3390/md23030091.

The Advancements of Marine Natural Products in the Treatment of Alzheimer's 
Disease: A Study Based on Cell and Animal Experiments.

Jia C(1)(2), Chai J(2), Zhang S(2), Sun Y(2), He L(2), Sang Z(3), Chen D(2), 
Zheng X(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Basic Medical Sciences, Dalian Medical University, Dalian 116044, 
China.
(2)Department of Comparative Medicine, Dalian Medical University, Dalian 116044, 
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hainan University, Haikou 570228, China.

As life expectancy rises and the aging population grows, Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) has become a significant global health concern. AD is a complex 
neurodegenerative disorder with an unclear etiology. Current hypotheses 
primarily focus on β-amyloid (Aβ) aggregation, tau protein hyperphosphorylation, 
and neuroinflammation as key pathological processes. Given the limited efficacy 
of existing therapeutic strategies, there is an urgent need to explore novel 
treatment options. Marine natural products have garnered significant attention 
due to their unique chemical structures and diverse bioactivities, demonstrating 
potential for multi-target interventions in AD. This review systematically 
summarizes the roles of marine-derived compounds, including polysaccharides, 
carotenoids, and polyphenols, in modulating Aβ aggregation, mitigating tau 
protein pathology, and regulating gut-brain axis dysfunction. Furthermore, the 
challenges of current research are discussed, with an emphasis on improving 
blood-brain barrier permeability and optimizing drug delivery systems to 
facilitate clinical translation.

DOI: 10.3390/md23030091
PMCID: PMC11943648
PMID: 40137277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


85. J Fungi (Basel). 2025 Feb 28;11(3):188. doi: 10.3390/jof11030188.

A Twist in Yeast: New Perspectives for Studying TDP-43 Proteinopathies in S. 
cerevisiae.

Stella R(1), Bertoli A(2)(3)(4), Lopreiato R(2), Peggion C(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio Farmaci Veterinari e Ricerca, Istituto Zooprofilattico 
Sperimentale delle Venezie, 35020 Legnaro, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Padova, 35131 Padova, Italy.
(3)Neuroscience Institute, Consiglio Nazionale Delle Ricerche, 35131 Padova, 
Italy.
(4)Padova Neuroscience Center, University of Padova, 35131 Padova, Italy.
(5)Department of Biology, University of Padova, 35131 Padova, Italy.

TAR DNA-binding protein 43 kDa (TDP-43) proteinopathies are a group of 
neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) characterized by the abnormal accumulation of 
the TDP-43 protein in neurons and glial cells. These proteinopathies are 
associated with several NDs, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, 
frontotemporal lobar degeneration, and some forms of Alzheimer's disease. Yeast 
models have proven valuable in ND research due to their simplicity, genetic 
tractability, and the conservation of many cellular processes shared with higher 
eukaryotes. For several decades, Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been used as a 
model organism to study the behavior and toxicity of TDP-43, facilitating the 
identification of genes and pathways that either exacerbate or mitigate its 
toxic effects. This review will discuss evidence showing that yeast models of 
TDP-43 exhibit defects in proteostasis, mitochondrial function, autophagy, and 
RNA metabolism, which are key features of TDP-43-related NDs. Additionally, we 
will explore how modulating proteins involved in these processes reduce TDP-43 
toxicity, aiding in restoring normal TDP-43 function or preventing its 
pathological aggregation. These findings highlight potential therapeutic targets 
for the treatment of TDP-43-related diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/jof11030188
PMCID: PMC11943067
PMID: 40137226

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


86. Metabolites. 2025 Mar 11;15(3):195. doi: 10.3390/metabo15030195.

Ceramide as a Promising Tool for Diagnosis and Treatment of Clinical Diseases: A 
Review of Recent Advances.

Shen X(1), Feng R(2)(3), Zhou R(3), Zhang Z(2), Liu K(4)(5)(6)(7), Wang S(2)(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Stomatology, Anhui Medical University, No. 81 Meishan Road, Hefei 
230032, China.
(2)Inflammation and Immune Mediated Diseases Laboratory of Anhui Province, 
Center for Scientific Research, Anhui Medical University, No. 81 Meishan Road, 
Hefei 230032, China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Anhui Medical University, No. 81 Meishan Road, Hefei 
230032, China.
(4)School of Public Health, Anhui Medical University, No 81 Meishan Road, Hefei 
230032, China.
(5)Center for Big Data and Population Health, Institute of Health and Medicine, 
Hefei Comprehensive National Science Center, No 81 Meishan Road, Hefei 230032, 
China.
(6)MOE Key Laboratory of Population Health Across Life Cycle, No. 81 Meishan 
Road, Hefei 230032, China.
(7)Anhui Provincial Key Laboratory of Population Health and Aristogenics, No. 81 
Meishan Road, Hefei 230032, China.
(8)Center for Scientific Research, Anhui Medical University, No. 81 Meishan 
Road, Hefei 230032, China.

Background/Objectives: Ceramide, a sphingolipid metabolite, has emerged as a key 
player in various physiological and pathological processes. Changes in ceramide 
levels are associated with the occurrence and development of various diseases, 
highlighting its potential as a biomarker of various clinical diseases. Methods: 
The biosynthesis and metabolism of ceramide are discussed, along with its 
functions in cell signaling, apoptosis, and inflammation. This study further 
examines the potential of ceramide as a biomarker for disease diagnosis and 
treatment. Results: This article highlights the involvement of ceramide in 
several diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, dermatosis, cancer, 
neurodegenerative disorders and metabolic syndromes. For each disease, the 
potential of ceramide as a biomarker for disease diagnosis and prognosis is 
explored, and the feasibility of therapeutic strategies targeting ceramide 
metabolism are reviewed. Additionally, the challenges and future directions in 
the field of ceramide research are addressed. Conclusions: This review article 
provides an overview of the recent advances in understanding the role of 
ceramide in clinical diseases and its potential as a diagnostic and therapeutic 
tool.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo15030195
PMCID: PMC11944470
PMID: 40137159

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


87. Metabolites. 2025 Feb 27;15(3):159. doi: 10.3390/metabo15030159.

Unravelling Shared Pathways Linking Metabolic Syndrome, Mild Cognitive 
Impairment, Dementia, and Sarcopenia.

Ceccarelli Ceccarelli D(1), Solerte SB(2).

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Medicine Department, Morgagni-Pierantoni Hospital, Via Carlo 
Forlanini 34, 47121 Forlì, Italy.
(2)Geriatric and Diabetology Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, University 
of Pavia, Corso Strada Nuova 63, 27100 Pavia, Italy.

Background: Aging is characterized by shared cellular and molecular processes, 
and aging-related diseases might co-exist in a cluster of comorbidities, 
particularly in vulnerable individuals whose phenotype meets the criteria for 
frailty. Whilst the multidimensional definition of frailty is still 
controversial, there is an increasing understanding of the common pathways 
linking metabolic syndrome, cognitive decline, and sarcopenia, frequent 
conditions in frail elderly patients. Methods: We performed a systematic search 
in the electronic databases Cochrane Library and PubMed and included preclinical 
studies, cohort and observational studies, and trials. Discussion: Metabolic 
syndrome markers, such as insulin resistance and the triglyceride/HDL C ratio, 
correlate with early cognitive impairment. Insulin resistance is a cause of 
synaptic dysfunction and neurodegeneration. Conversely, fasting and 
fasting-mimicking agents promote neuronal resilience by enhancing mitochondrial 
efficiency, autophagy, and neurogenesis. Proteins acting as cellular metabolic 
sensors, such as SIRT1, play a pivotal role in aging, neuroprotection, and 
metabolic health. In AD, β-amyloid accumulation and hyperphosphorylated tau in 
neurofibrillary tangles can cause metabolic reprogramming in brain cells, 
shifting from oxidative phosphorylation to aerobic glycolysis, similar to the 
Warburg effect in cancer. The interrelation of metabolic syndrome, sarcopenia, 
and cognitive decline suggests that targeting these shared metabolic pathways 
could mitigate all the conditions. Pharmacological interventions, including 
GLP-1 receptor agonists, metformin, and SIRT 1 inducers, demonstrated 
neuroprotective effects in animals and some preliminary clinical models. 
Conclusions: These findings encourage further research on the prevention and 
treatment of neurodegenerative diseases as well as the drug-repurposing 
potential of molecules currently approved for diabetes, dyslipidemia, and 
metabolic syndrome.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo15030159
PMCID: PMC11943464
PMID: 40137124

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


88. Expert Opin Ther Pat. 2025 Jun;35(6):611-621. doi: 
10.1080/13543776.2025.2484366. Epub 2025 Mar 31.

A patent review of peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) inhibitors 
(2014-present).

Aiken SG(1)(2), Grimes T(1)(3), Munro S(4), Zarganes-Tzitzikas T(1)(3), La 
Thangue NB(4), Brennan PE(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Medicines Discovery, Nuffield Department of Medicine Research 
Building, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(2)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(3)Alzheimer's Research UK Oxford Drug Discovery Institute, Centre for Medicines 
Discovery, Nuffield Department of Medicine Research Building, University of 
Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(4)IngenOx, Magdalen Centre, Oxford Science Park, Oxford, UK.

INTRODUCTION: PAD4 mediates the post-translational modification of arginine 
residues into citrulline which can have profound effects on protein structure, 
function and interactions. Protein citrullination and neutrophil extracellular 
trap (NET) formation associated with increased PAD4 activity have been 
implicated in the development of autoimmune conditions, cardiovascular diseases, 
neurodegenerative disorders, and cancer. PAD4 inhibitors have been shown to 
suppress citrullination and NETs formation.
AREAS COVERED: This review covers 10 years of industrial drug discovery 
campaigns reported in 28 patent applications from 10 companies. Cortellis, the 
World Intellectual Property Organization website, Scopus and SciFinder were used 
to search the patent literature using the keywords 'PAD4' and 'PAD4 inhibitor.' 
Most of the reported inhibitors share the same core scaffold with varied 
decoration of different complexity, including highly functionalized macrocycles, 
with some in vivo and pharmacokinetic (PK) data reported for selected examples.
EXPERT OPINION: Despite PAD4's clear involvement in multiple disease pathways, 
its detailed mechanism remains insufficiently understood. Selective and potent 
compounds with improved PK properties have been provided but most research on 
PAD4 is still at the experimental stage or preclinical development; the most 
promising is JBI-1044, at the IND stage, while some companies have turned to 
antibodies despite considerable previous investment in small molecules.

DOI: 10.1080/13543776.2025.2484366
PMID: 40136037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Clin Sleep Med. 2025 Jul 1;21(7):1217-1226. doi: 10.5664/jcsm.11648.

Subjective daytime sleepiness, not sleep quality or hypoxia, predicts 
sleep-dependent memory consolidation in a cohort of older adults.

Harding CD(1), Holloway BM(1)(2), DeYoung PN(1), Kwan C(1), Djonlagic I(3), 
Ancoli-Israel S(2), Banks SJ(2)(4), Malhotra A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, Sleep Medicine, and Physiology, 
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California.
(3)Beth Israel Deaconess Hospitals, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, 
California.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: Aging markedly increases the risk of both Alzheimer's disease 
and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Memory deficits, an early indicator of 
Alzheimer's disease, can be reduced in those of middle age with OSA through 
treatment, with positive-airway pressure being the first-line treatment 
standard. Here, we use natural variation in the OSA severity of an older-aged 
cohort to investigate whether hypoxia or sleep quality predicts sleep-dependent 
memory consolidation (SDMC).
METHODS: Participants aged 65-85 years not currently receiving OSA treatment 
were recruited from the San Diego community via advertisement and referrals from 
other sleep studies. Participants undertook a computerized neurocognitive 
battery and overnight polysomnography. SDMC was measured using a word-pair 
associates task. Two linear regression analyses assessed associations between 
(1) SDMC and hypoxia metrics and (2) SDMC and sleep quality metrics.
RESULTS: The study included 67 participants (36 females, 31 males), most of whom 
presented with moderate or severe OSA. No significant associations were present 
in the hypoxia model. A negative association between Epworth Sleepiness Scale 
score and SDMC was the only significant relationship in the sleep-quality model. 
There was also a mild univariate correlation between Epworth Sleepiness Scale 
score and a second daytime function measure, the psychomotor vigilance task.
CONCLUSIONS: Objective measures of OSA pathology including hypoxia and sleep 
fragmentation were not associated with memory; however, Epworth Sleepiness Scale 
score, a subjective measure of daytime sleepiness, was associated with poorer 
memory task performance. This highlights the importance of considering 
subjective perceptions of sleep quality and daytime function in cognitive health 
outcomes of patients with OSA, particularly in older adults, in whom the myriad 
comorbidities that contribute to memory deficits may integrate.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: Registry: ClinicalTrials.gov; Name: Is Obstructive 
Sleep Apnea Important in the Development of Alzheimer's Disease?; URL: 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05094271; Identifier: NCT05094271.
CITATION: Harding CD, Holloway BM, DeYoung PN, et al. Subjective daytime 
sleepiness, not sleep quality or hypoxia, predicts sleep-dependent memory 
consolidation in a cohort of older adults. J Clin Sleep Med. 
2025;21(7):1217-1226.

© 2025 American Academy of Sleep Medicine.

DOI: 10.5664/jcsm.11648
PMCID: PMC12225258
PMID: 40135690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have seen and approved the 
manuscript. Work for this study was performed at the Altman Clinical and 
Translational Research Institute, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California. This work was sponsored by National Institutes of Health grants 
1R01AG063925-01A1 and T32MH018399. A.M. is a consultant for Eli Lilly, Zoll, 
Sunrise, Powell-Mansfield, and LivaNova and is cofounder of Healcisio. S.A.-I. 
is a consultant for Eisai, Idorsia, and Merck. P.N.D. is a consultant for 
Powell-Mansfield and Masimo. C.D.H., B.M.H., S.J.B., I.D., and C.K. report no 
conflicts of interest.


90. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70087. doi: 10.1002/alz.70087.

Pathways underlying selective neuronal vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease: 
Contrasting the vulnerable locus coeruleus to the resilient substantia nigra.

Ehrenberg AJ(1)(2)(3)(4), Sant C(5)(6), Pereira FL(1), Li SH(1), Buxton J(4), 
Langlois S(2), Trinidad M(3), Oh I(1), Leite REP(7), Rodriguez RD(7), Paes 
VR(7), Pasqualucci CA(7), Seeley WW(1), Spina S(1), Suemoto CK(8), Temple S(9), 
Kaufer D(2)(4), Grinberg LT(1)(7)(10).

Author information:
(1)Memory and Aging Center, Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of 
California, San Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, Dept. of Neuroscience, University of 
California, Berkeley, California, USA.
(3)Innovative Genomics Institute, University of California, Berkeley, 
California, USA.
(4)Dept. of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley, California, 
USA.
(5)Gladstone Institute for Neurological Diseases, Gladstone Institutes, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(6)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of California, San Francisco, 
California, USA.
(7)Dept. of Pathology, University of São Paulo Medical School, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(8)Division of Geriatrics, University of São Paulo Medical School, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(9)Neural Stem Cell Institute, Rensselaer, New York, USA.
(10)Global Brain Health Institute, University of California, San Francisco, 
California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) selectively affects certain brain 
regions, yet the mechanisms of selective vulnerability remain poorly understood. 
The neuromodulatory subcortical system, which includes nuclei exhibiting a range 
of vulnerability and resilience to AD-type degeneration, presents a framework 
for uncovering these mechanisms.
METHODS: We leveraged transcriptomics and immunohistochemistry in paired samples 
from human post mortem tissue representing a vulnerable and resilient region-the 
locus coeruleus (LC) and substantia nigra (SN). These regions have comparable 
anatomical features but distinct vulnerability to AD.
RESULTS: We identified significant differences in cholesterol homeostasis, 
antioxidant pathways, KRAS signaling, and estrogen signaling at a bulk 
transcriptomic level. Notably, evidence of sigma-2 receptor upregulation was 
detected in the LC.
DISCUSSION: Our findings highlight pathways differentiating the LC and SN, 
potentially explaining the LC's selective vulnerability in AD. Such pathways 
offer potential targets of disease-modifying therapies for AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Intraindividual comparative RNAseq was used to study selective 
vulnerability. Metallothionein genes are significantly enriched in the 
substantia nigra. Cholesterol homeostatic genes are significantly enriched in 
the locus coeruleus. The locus coeruleus is likely more susceptible to toxic 
amyloid beta oligomers.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70087
PMCID: PMC11938114
PMID: 40135662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.J.E. has no relevant competing financial 
interests with this manuscript. A.J.E. serves as an unpaid steering committee 
member for the Genomic Answers for Children's Health Alliance at Leavitt 
Partners and as an unpaid executive committee member for the Neuromodulatory 
Subcortical System's Professional Interests Area of the International Society to 
Advance Alzheimer's Research and Treatment. S.T. has no relevant competing 
interests with this manuscript, but is co‐founder of Luxa Biotech developing an 
RPE therapy for AMD and has patents related to RPE cell therapy: Retinal pigment 
epithelial stem cells, Patent number: 8481313; Methods of treating a retinal 
disease by Retinal pigment epithelial stem cells, Patent number: 10034916; S.T. 
has advised BlueRock Therapeutics, Vita Therapeutics, and SANA Biotechnology. 
All other authors have no declared conflicts of interest to declare. Author 
disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


91. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2025 Mar 26:1-27. doi: 10.1080/07391102.2025.2480262. 
Online ahead of print.

Binding interaction of acetylcholinesterase with steroidal pregnanes: insight 
from machine learning and atomistic simulation.

Ogunyemi OM(1), Macaulay OS(1), Gyebi GA(2), Ogunyemi MM(3), Agunloye MO(4), 
Olaiya CO(1).

Author information:
(1)Structural and Computational Biology Group, Nutritional and Industrial 
Biochemistry Research Unit, Department of Biochemistry, College of Medicine, 
University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Food Science, Faculty of Applied Sciences, 
Durban University of Technology, Durban, South Africa.
(3)Africa Centre of Excellence for Mycotoxin and Food Safety, Federal University 
of Technology Minna, Minna, Nigeria.
(4)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Biomedical Sciences, Kampala 
International University, Kansanga, Uganda.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition is a key strategy in the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders. While pregnane-based 
compounds have been suggested as AChE inhibitors, their mechanism of action 
remains unclear. This study employed machine learning (ML) and molecular 
modeling to probe the molecular interaction of AChE with steroidal pregnanes. 
The ML models were trained and validated on AChE bioactivity datasets to predict 
pIC50 and pKi values of small-molecule compounds. Among the models tested, the 
Random Forest Regressor demonstrated superior performance and was used to 
identify pregnanes with pIC50 ≥ 5 and pKi ≥ 7 as promising inhibitors. Molecular 
docking revealed strong molecular interactions between AChE and several 
pregnanes, particularly 21-[(3-Hydroxy-2-naphthyl)oxy]pregnane-2-one. This 
compound interacted with critical sub-sites within the AChE binding gorge, 
including the catalytic active site, peripheral anionic site, oxyanion hole, and 
anionic sub-site, through multiple hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. 
Molecular dynamics simulations over 100 ns indicated structural stability and 
conformational flexibility of representative AChE-pregnane complexes as 
indicated by the dynamic parameters and cluster patterns. The Molecular 
Mechanics with Generalized Born Surface Area free energy analysis confirmed 
strong binding affinities, while residual energy decomposition provided insights 
into key residue contributions. Additionally, the pregnanes demonstrated 
favorable blood-brain barrier permeability and other drug-like properties, 
suggesting their potential as neurotherapeutic agents. Given their predicted 
bioactivity, strong interactions with AChE, and drug-like properties, the 
identified pregnanes warrant further optimization and experimental evaluation 
for the development of safe and effective AChE inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2025.2480262
PMID: 40135660


92. Alzheimers Dement (Amst). 2025 Mar 25;17(1):e70086. doi: 10.1002/dad2.70086. 
eCollection 2025 Jan-Mar.

Cardiovascular rate pressure product is associated with NfL in older adults at 
risk for AD.

Odo CC(1)(2), Strong J(1)(2), Lose SR(1)(2), Ma Y(1)(2), Gallagher CL(3)(4), 
Bendlin BB(1)(2)(3)(5), Zetterberg H(2)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Blennow 
K(7)(11)(12)(13), Carlsson CM(1)(2)(3)(5), Kollmorgen G(14), Quijano-Rubio 
C(15), Chin NA(1)(2), Asthana S(1)(2)(5), Johnson SC(1)(2)(5), Pontes Monteiro 
J(1)(2), Okonkwo OC(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine University of Wisconsin-Madison Madison Wisconsin USA.
(2)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health Madison Wisconsin USA.
(3)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center William S. Middleton 
Memorial Veterans Hospital Madison Wisconsin USA.
(4)Department of Neurology University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public 
Health Madison Wisconsin USA.
(5)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute University of Wisconsin School of Medicine 
and Public Health Madison Wisconsin USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, SU/ 
Sahlgrenska, Mölndal Gothenburg Sweden.
(7)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Sahlgrenska, Mölndal Gothenburg Sweden.
(8)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease UCL Institute of Neurology London UK.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL London UK.
(10)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay Hong Kong 
China.
(11)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology the Sahlgrenska Academy at the 
University of Gothenburg, Box 430, Mölndal Gothenburg Sweden.
(12)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University 
Paris France.
(13)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine Department of Neurology Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC Hefei P.R. China.
(14)Roche Diagnostics GmbH Penzberg Germany.
(15)Roche Diagnostics International Ltd Rotkreuz Switzerland.

INTRODUCTION: Elevated cardiovascular rate pressure product (RPP) has been shown 
to predict cardiovascular mortality and is associated with poor cognitive test 
performance among older adults. However, it is unclear how RPP is related to the 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers of neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation.
METHODS: RPP was cross-sectionally evaluated as a predictor of CSF biomarker 
levels in a cohort of 310 cognitively unimpaired late-middle-aged adults at risk 
for Alzheimer's disease. The primary outcomes were CSF levels of α-Synuclein, 
glial fibrillary acidic protein, neurofilament light (NfL), soluble triggering 
receptor expressed in myeloid cells 2, and total tau. Further analyses examined 
amyloid beta (Aβ)42/Aβ40, phosphorylated tau 181 (pTau181), and pTau181/Aβ4.
RESULTS: RPP was positively associated with NfL (β = 0.006, R 2 = 0.411, 
p = 0.012, but Bonferroni-corrected p ≤ 0.006) and not with other CSF biomarkers 
of neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation investigated in this sample.
DISCUSSION: A high myocardial oxygen demand at rest may be related to neuronal 
death and axonal degeneration in cognitively unimpaired late-middle-aged adults.
HIGHLIGHTS: We explored the relationship between RPP and CSF analytes.Higher RPP 
was associated with higher NfL but not other measured CSF biomarkers.HR was 
positively associated with NfL, whereas SBP was not.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease 
Monitoring published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/dad2.70086
PMCID: PMC11934293
PMID: 40135149

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
K.B. has served as a consultant and on advisory boards for AC Immune, Acumen, 
ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte., Novartis, Ono 
Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at 
data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, 
produced educational materials and participated in educational programs for AC 
Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; and is a 
co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper. 
S.C.J. has served as a consultant to Roche Diagnostics, AlzPath, and Enigma 
Biomedical. The NeuroToolKit robust prototype assays are for investigational 
purposes and are not approved for clinical use. cobas and ELECSYS are trademarks 
of Roche. All other product names and trademarks are the property of their 
respective owners. C.O., J.S., S.L., Y.M., C.G., B.B., C.C., N.C., S.A., J.P.M., 
and O.O. have nothing to disclose. Author disclosures are available in the 
Supporting Information.


93. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2025 Mar 21;19:2133-2155. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S499852. 
eCollection 2025.

Unveiling the Therapeutic Potential of Banxia Xiexin Decoction in Alzheimer's 
Disease: Insights From Network Pharmacology and Experimental Validation.

Qin G(#)(1)(2)(3), Song R(#)(1), Sun J(4), Dai J(3), Wang W(3), Meng F(3), Wang 
D(3), Liu Z(1), Sun B(5), Li C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Binzhou Medical University 
Hospital, Binzhou, Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(2)Postdoctoral Research Mobile Station, Shandong University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Jinan, Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(3)Medical Research Center, Binzhou Medical University Hospital, Binzhou, 
Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(4)Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong First Medical University, 
Jinan, Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(5)Second AfFIliated Hospital, Shandong First Medical University & Shandong 
Academy of Medical Sciences, Taian, Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with various pathological 
states for which there is no effective treatment. First documented in the 
Eastern Han Dynasty's medical classic, "Treatise on Febrile and Miscellaneous 
Diseases" (200-210 Anno Domini), Banxia Xiexin Decoction (BXD) stands as a 
quintessential approach to treating spleen ailments. Recent studies have shown 
BXD's effectiveness in mitigating memory impairment associated with AD. Yet, the 
precise mechanisms underlying BXD's action against AD require further 
exploration.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To explore the important components of BXD in exerting anti-AD 
effects and the underlying molecular mechanisms using network pharmacology, 
metabolomics analysis, and in vitro and in vivo validation strategies. 
Initially, candidates for BXD's application in AD therapy were identified 
through extensive database searches, followed by an analysis of protein-protein 
interactions (PPI). To elucidate BXD's therapeutic pathways in AD, we engaged in 
Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) 
assessments. Further, we delved into BXD's primary constituents through 
ultra-high-pressure liquid chromatography coupled with Q Exactive mass 
spectrometry and molecular docking techniques. Finally, AD-associated Aβ42-SY5Y 
cells and APPswe/PS1dE9 (APP/PS1) transgenic mice models were utilized to 
further determine the activity and mechanisms of BXD through various molecular 
or phenotypic assays and metabolomics analysis.
RESULTS: Our findings identified the PI3K/Akt signaling pathways as central to 
BXD's effects. Using in vitro and in vivo models, we found the activity of BXD 
against AD to be mediated by the suppression of neuroinflammation and apoptosis, 
accompanied by activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway. Finally, we observed robust 
changes in metabolite levels in the plasma of BXD-treated APP/PS1 mice.
CONCLUSION: Through systematic data analysis and experimental validation, the 
therapeutic advantages and fundamental molecular mechanisms of BXD in treating 
AD were revealed. These findings underscore the promising prospects and 
compelling potential of BXD, which targets the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and 
inflammation, apoptosis, as a therapeutic strategy for improving AD.

© 2025 Qin et al.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S499852
PMCID: PMC11934878
PMID: 40134954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Gaofeng Qin and Rongqiang Song are joint first 
authors. The authors report no conflicts of interest in this work.


94. Brain Behav Immun Health. 2025 Mar 7;45:100974. doi:
10.1016/j.bbih.2025.100974.  eCollection 2025 May.

Elevated TDP-43 serum levels associated with postoperative delirium following 
major cardiac surgery.

Simon C(1), Graves OK(1), Akeju O(1), McKay TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia, Critical Care, and Pain Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 02114, USA.

BACKGROUND: Postoperative delirium is a recurring complication among vulnerable 
patients undergoing major cardiac surgery. While delirium has been associated 
with prodromal dementia, there is minimal evidence to support the causality of 
this nuanced relationship. Clarification as to how postoperative delirium might 
lead to neurodegenerative dementias, perhaps through evidence of contemporaneous 
biomarkers, would heighten the plausibility of a causal correlation. TAR 
DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43), a nuclear protein essential for transcriptional 
events, has been linked to pathological aggregation in Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
and AD-related dementias (ADRD).
METHODS: Circulating TDP-43 levels in cardiac surgical patients aged 60 years 
and older were evaluated in a biobank derived from the Minimizing ICU 
Neurological Dysfunction with Dexmedetomidine-induced Sleep (MINDDS) clinical 
trial. Serum total TDP-43 levels, measured with a single molecule array (Simoa), 
were compared across preoperative and postoperative day one timepoints according 
to delirium status assessed using the Confusion Assessment Method (CAM). To 
investigate the temporal changes in serum TDP-43, an independent validation 
cohort of 25 patients aged 60 years and older undergoing major cardiac surgery 
was analyzed.
RESULTS: Total serum TDP-43 levels increased by 16.5% (95% CI: 5.9%-27.9%, 
p = 0.0021) on postoperative day one compared to baseline levels. This increase 
was more pronounced in patients who experienced delirium (median increase of 
55.1%, 95% CI: 22.9%-96.4%, p = 0.0002). Further, these findings were conserved 
in multiple logistic regression models adjusting for treatment, age, sex, and 
baseline cognitive scores. In the validation cohort, TDP-43 levels were found to 
be significantly elevated immediately following cardiopulmonary bypass from the 
baseline, with a gradual decrease by postoperative day one.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that post-cardiac surgery delirium among 
vulnerable patients is associated with significant elevations in circulating 
TDP-43. This relationship suggests that TDP-43 may serve as a prognostic 
biomarker for acute neurological insults and blood-brain barrier integrity 
following cardiac surgery. Overall, our results provide mechanistic insights 
into the inter-relationship between postoperative delirium and subsequent 
cognitive impairment, potentially offering new avenues for early intervention in 
at-risk surgical patients.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbih.2025.100974
PMCID: PMC11932660
PMID: 40134937

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


95. Front Psychol. 2025 Mar 11;16:1535440. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2025.1535440. 
eCollection 2025.

Determination of balance, fall risk, and kinesiophobia in individuals with 
Alzheimer's Dementia.

Doğancı O(1), Sertel M(2).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Internal Affairs the Rebublic of Turkey, Kastamonu District 
Governorship, Kastamonu, Türkiye.
(2)Health Sciences Faculty Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Department, Bursa 
Uludag University, Bursa, Türkiye.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine balance, fall risk, and kinesiophobia 
in individuals with Alzheimer's Dementia (AD).
METHODS: The study was completed with 18 AD and 18 healthy AD-free control group 
with early or moderate-stage AD diagnosed by a neurologist. Socio-demographic 
characteristics of the individuals were assessed using an evaluation form, and 
their balance was evaluated using the Tinetti Balance and Gait Assessment Test, 
Timed Up and Go Test, and Single Leg Standing Test. The Falls Risk 
Self-Assessment Scale (FRSAS) was used to assess the risk of falls. 
Kinesiophobia was assessed using the Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia (TKS). 
Additionally, participants underwent the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE).
RESULT: The mean age of individuals with AD was lower than that of healthy 
individuals, with means of 69 ± 3.66 years and 65.4 ± 4.10 years, respectively 
(p = 0.012). The Tinetti balance (p = 0.005), Tinetti gait (p < 0.001), Tinetti 
total (p < 0.001), and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) (p < 0,001) 
scores were lower in AD individuals relative to controls. The FRSAS (p < 0.001) 
scores were higher in AD individuals relative to controls. The TKS scores were 
found to be similar between individuals with AD and the control group 
(p = 0.860).
CONCLUSION: It was found that individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have 
poorer balance and a higher risk of falls compared to healthy individuals. In 
light of these results, balance assessments should be included when developing 
rehabilitation protocols for individuals with AD. Treatment protocols designed 
for this patient group must incorporate balance-specific exercise and training 
programs. Additionally, individual and environmental preventive measures should 
be implemented to reduce the risk of falls in individuals with AD.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trial Number: NCT05201768.

Copyright © 2025 Doğancı and Sertel.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2025.1535440
PMCID: PMC11934254
PMID: 40134734

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


96. Front Neurol. 2025 Mar 11;16:1563056. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1563056. 
eCollection 2025.

Efficacy of Ginkgo biloba as an adjunct to donepezil in amyloid PET-positive 
Alzheimer's patients.

Yang Y(1), Koo MS(2), Kwak YT(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Soonchunhyang University College of Medicine, 
Cheonan Hospital, Cheonan, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Catholic Kwandong University College of Medicine, 
Incheon, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Hyoja Geriatric Hospital, Yongin, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Ginkgo biloba is widely used in some regions as an adjunct therapy 
for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Its potential mechanisms include antioxidative and 
anti-amyloid properties, yet clinical evidence remains mixed.
OBJECTIVE: We investigated whether combining Ginkgo with donepezil confers 
additional benefits in amyloid PET-positive AD patients. We also explored 
changes in the plasma biomarker MDS-Oaβ (Multimer Detection System-Oligomeric 
Aβ), which reflects the propensity of Aβ monomers to form oligomers.
METHODS: This retrospective study included newly diagnosed, drug-naïve AD 
patients who were amyloid PET-positive and had at least 12 months of follow-up. 
Participants received either donepezil alone (Donepezil-only) or donepezil plus 
Ginkgo (Donepezil-Ginkgo). Clinical measures included the Korean version of the 
Mini-Mental State Examination (K-MMSE) and the Sum of Boxes of the Clinical 
Dementia Rating (CDR-SB). Plasma MDS-Oaβ was assessed at baseline and at 
12 months.
RESULTS: A total of 101 patients were analyzed (60 Donepezil-only, 41 
Donepezil-Ginkgo). Baseline demographics and clinical characteristics were 
similar. After 12 months, the Donepezil-only group showed minimal change in 
K-MMSE and a slight decrease in MDS-Oaβ. The Donepezil-Ginkgo group demonstrated 
a significant improvement in K-MMSE (+2.4) and a larger reduction in MDS-Oaβ 
(-0.15). No significant between-group difference was observed for CDR-SB. 
Adverse events were mostly mild and did not lead to discontinuation.
CONCLUSION: The addition of Ginkgo to donepezil may yield superior cognitive 
outcomes and a greater decrease in plasma MDS-Oaβ compared with donepezil alone 
in amyloid PET-positive AD patients. Further large-scale, prospective trials are 
warranted to validate these findings and elucidate Ginkgo's mechanistic role in 
AD.

Copyright © 2025 Yang, Koo and Kwak.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1563056
PMCID: PMC11932902
PMID: 40134691

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


97. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Mar 11;17:1496252. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1496252.  eCollection 2025.

Global status and trends of exosomes in neurodegenerative diseases from 2014 to 
2023: a bibliometric and visual analysis.

Wu H(#)(1), Li YL(#)(2), Liu PM(1), Yang JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Pain and Perioperative Medicine, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)National Institutes for Food and Drug Control, Beijing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) are chronic and progressive 
conditions that significantly impact global public health. Recent years have 
highlighted exosomes as key mechanisms involved in these diseases. This study 
aims to visualize and analyze the structure and content of exosomes in NDs based 
on past research to identify new research ideas and directions. Through 
bibliometric analysis, we assess the current state of research on exosomes in 
the field of NDs worldwide over the past decade, highlighting significant 
findings, major research areas, and emerging trends.
METHODS: Publications on exosomes in NDs research were obtained from the Web of 
Science Core Collection (WOSCC) database. Eligible literature was analyzed using 
Bibliometric R, VOSviewer, and Citespace.
RESULTS: Between 2014 and 2023, 2,393 publications on exosomes in NDs were 
included in the analysis. The number of relevant publications has been 
increasing yearly, with China leading in international collaboration, followed 
by the United States. And China has the largest number of academic scholars as 
leading and corresponding authors in all the countries, known as the great 
research society and community. Notable institutions contributing to these 
publications include Nia, the University of San Francisco California, and 
Capital Medical University, which rank highly in both publication volume and 
citations. Dimitrios Kapogiannis is a pivotal figure in the author collaboration 
network, having produced the highest number of publications (Sato et al., 2011) 
and amassed 3,921 citations. The journal with the most published articles in 
this field is The International Journal of Molecular Sciences, which has 
published 131 articles and received 3,347 citations. A recent analysis of 
keyword clusters indicates that "Exosome-like liposomes," "Independent 
mechanisms," and "Therapeutic potential" are emerging research hotspots.
CONCLUSION: This is the first bibliometric study to provide a comprehensive 
summary of the research trends and developments regarding exosomes in NDs 
studies. Future research in this area may explore the role of mesenchymal 
stromal cells, microRNAs (miRNAs), and targeted drug delivery systems to further 
investigate the underlying mechanisms and develop new therapeutics.

Copyright © 2025 Wu, Li, Liu and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1496252
PMCID: PMC11933124
PMID: 40134534

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


98. Front Immunol. 2025 Mar 11;16:1525623. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1525623. 
eCollection 2025.

The immunomodulatory effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists in neurogenerative 
diseases and ischemic stroke treatment.

Sun H(1), Hao Y(1), Liu H(1), Gao F(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medical Science, School of Medicine, Ningbo University, 
Ningbo, Zhejiang, China.

Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor is widely distributed in the digestive 
system, cardiovascular system, adipose tissue and central nervous system. 
Numerous GLP-1 receptor-targeting drugs have been investigated in clinical 
studies for various indications, including type 2 diabetes and obesity (accounts 
for 70% of the total studies), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, Alzheimer's 
disease, and Parkinson's disease. This review presented fundamental information 
regarding two categories of GLP-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs): peptide-based 
and small molecule compounds, and elaborated their potential neuroprotective 
effects by inhibiting neuroinflammation, reducing neuronal apoptosis, and 
ultimately improving cognitive function in various neurodegenerative diseases. 
As a new hypoglycemic drug, GLP-1RA has a unique role in reducing the concurrent 
risk of stroke in T2D patients. Given the infiltration of various peripheral 
immune cells into brain tissue, particularly in the areas surrounding the 
infarct lesion, we further investigated the potential immune regulatory 
mechanisms. GLP-1RA could not only facilitate the M2 polarization of microglia 
through both direct and indirect pathways, but also modulate the quantity and 
function of T cell subtypes, including CD4, CD8, and regulatory T cells, 
resulting into the inhibition of inflammatory responses and the promotion of 
neuronal regeneration through interleukin-10 secretion. Therefore, we believe 
that the "Tregs-microglia-neuron/neural precursor cells" axis is instrumental in 
mediating immune suppression and neuroprotection in the context of ischemic 
stroke. Given the benefits of rapid diffusion, favorable blood-brain barrier 
permeability and versatile administration routes, these small molecule compounds 
will be one of the important candidates of GLP-1RA. We look forward to the 
further clinical evidence of small molecule GLP-1RA intervention in ischemic 
stroke or T2D complicated by ischemic stroke.

Copyright © 2025 Sun, Hao, Liu and Gao.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1525623
PMCID: PMC11932860
PMID: 40134421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that this study received 
funding from Ningbo Dachang Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. The funder was not involved 
in the study design, collection, analysis, interpretation of data, the writing 
of this article or the decision to submit it for publication.


99. Swiss Med Wkly. 2025 Mar 26;155:4017. doi: 10.57187/s.4017.

Conference report: Trends, new technologies and implications for dementia 
diagnostics, treatment and care in Switzerland.

Popp J(1)(2), Kressig RW(3)(4), Bieler-Aeschlimann M(5), Rabl M(1), Ienca 
M(6)(7), Monsch AU(8), Pihan H(9), Klöppel S(10), Meyer-Heim T(11), Becker 
S(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Adult Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Psychiatric University 
Hospital Zurich and University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Old Age Psychiatry, University Hospital of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(3)University Department of Geriatric Medicine Felix Platter, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(4)University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(5)Leenaards Memory Centre, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, and Infections 
Disease Service, University Hospital of Lausanne (CHUV), Lausanne, Switzerland.
(6)Institute for History and Ethics of Medicine, School of Medicine and Health, 
Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(7)College of Humanities, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, 
Lausanne, Switzerland.
(8)Faculty of Psychology, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(9)Neurology Clinic and Memory Clinic, Biel Hospital Centre, Biel, Switzerland.
(10)University Hospital of Old Age Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of 
Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(11)Zurichs Municipal Hospital, Waid, University Geriatric Clinic, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(12)Alzheimer's Switzerland, Yverdon-les-Bains, Switzerland.

Dementia diseases represent a major burden for the directly affected people, 
their relatives and modern society. Despite considerable efforts in recent 
years, early and accurate disease diagnosis and monitoring is still a challenge 
while no cure is available in most cases. New drugs, in particular 
disease-modifying therapies, and recent technological advancements offer 
promising perspectives. The integration of novel biomarkers, artificial 
intelligence and digital health tools has the potential to transform dementia 
care, making it more personalised, efficient and adapted to the living 
conditions and needs of older people. In November 2023, the 7th Dementia Summit 
convened a panel of experts from geriatrics, neurology, neuropsychology, 
psychiatry, ethics as well as general medicine to discuss interdisciplinary 
challenges, advancements and their implications for the future of dementia care 
in Switzerland. The conference underscored the importance of a multidisciplinary 
approach to successfully integrate new technologies in both 
clinical-translational research and dementia prevention, diagnosis and care. 
While recent innovations represent major steps forward, their implementation 
also comes with important challenges including questions on healthcare system 
preparedness and adaptation, ethical aspects, technology literacy, acceptance 
and appropriate use.

DOI: 10.57187/s.4017
PMID: 40134375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(3):919-932. doi: 10.1177/13872877251320668.
Epub  2025 Mar 25.

Assessment of instrumental activities of daily living in patients with cognitive 
impairment based on their ability to use household appliances.

Shimosaka M(1), Nishimoto H(2), Okahashi S(3), Zeng D(1), Fukui K(4), Kawasaki 
T(5), Akiguchi I(5), Kinoshita A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Health Sciences, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto 
University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto-city, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Information Systems Engineering, Faculty of Design Technology, 
Osaka Sangyo University, Daito-city, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Research Institute, National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology Center, 
Obu-city, Aichi, Japan.
(4)Department of Clinical Nursing, Division of Geriatric Nursing, Shiga 
University of Medical Science, Otsu-city, Shiga, Japan.
(5)Center of Neurological and Cerebrovascular Diseases, Koseikai Takeda 
Hospital, Shimogyo-ku, Kyoto-city, Kyoto, Japan.

BackgroundDetecting life disability is crucial in diagnosing dementia; however, 
early detection has proven challenging with previous assessment scales. This 
study focused on an individual's ability to use household appliances as a means 
of detecting life disability.ObjectiveThe objectives of this study are 
threefold: (1) to compare the ability to use household appliances between the 
non-dementia and dementia groups, (2) to determine whether the level of life 
disability based on the ability to use appliances is at the level of diagnosed 
dementia or non-dementia, and (3) to explore the impact of age and gender on the 
ability to use appliances.MethodsWe selected 13 essential household appliances 
for elderly individuals and proposed an instrumental activities of daily living 
(IADL) assessment tool to evaluate their usage. Our sample consisted of 98 
patients with cognitive impairment, divided into a non-dementia group (N = 34) 
and a dementia group (N = 64). Most participants in the dementia group had 
Alzheimer's disease or related conditions. Through multiple logistic regression, 
the model equation aimed to determine whether a subject's functional disability 
indicated a potential dementia diagnosis.ResultsThe optimal model equation 
identified the microwave oven and air conditioner as key factors, achieving an 
area under the curve (AUC) of 0.78. Additionally, analysis by age and gender 
enhanced the discriminative power of the results.ConclusionsOur proposed scoring 
system can efficiently determine the degree of life disability by assessing 
appliance usage, demonstrating comparable discriminatory ability to existing 
scales.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251320668
PMCID: PMC12246828
PMID: 40134265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.