1. Metab Brain Dis. 2024 Nov 18;40(1):11. doi: 10.1007/s11011-024-01459-9.

Bushen Huoxue acupuncture ameliorates Alzheimer's disease by upregulating 
MARCHF3 to induce NLRP3 ubiquitination and inhibit caspase-1-dependent 
pyroptosis.

Zhu H(1), Zhang T(1), Li R(1), Ren D(1), Xu J(1), Xiao L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, The Third Xiangya Hospital of 
Central South University, 138 Tongzipo Road, Changsha, 410008, Hunan Province, 
China.
(2)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, The Third Xiangya Hospital of 
Central South University, 138 Tongzipo Road, Changsha, 410008, Hunan Province, 
China. xy3yy_xiaolan@126.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder that places a 
heavy burden on patients and society. Hippocampal neuronal loss is a hallmark of 
AD progression. Therefore, understanding the mechanism underlying hippocampal 
neuronal death would be of great importance for the diagnosis and treatment of 
AD. This study aimed to explore the molecular mechanism via which Bushen Huoxue 
Acupuncture inhibits hippocampal neuronal pyroptosis in AD. 
Senescence-accelerated mouse prone 8 (SAMP8) mice were used as a model of AD. 
Bushen Huoxue Acupuncture was performed in four acupoints: "Baihui acupoint" 
(GV20), "Shenshu acupoint" (BL23), "Xuehai acupoint" (SP10), and "Geshu 
acupoint" (BL17). Morris water maze was used to test cognitive function in mice. 
IHC staining was used to test mice's Aβ1-42, MARCHF1 and MARCHF3 expression. 
Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) 
staining was used for observing hippocampal neuronal apoptosis. The mRNA 
expression levels of pyroptosis markers MARCHF1, MARCHF3, NLRP3, caspase-1, 
GSDMD, IL-1β, and IL-18 mRNA in AD mice were determined by quantitative reverse 
transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The protein expression of 
NLRP3, caspase-1 and GSDMD-N was tested by Western blotting. IL-1β and IL-18 
protein levels were measured by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). 
SH-SY5Y cells were used to establish an AD model following Aβ1-42 treatment. 
Western blot was used to detect the NLRP3, MARCHF1 and MARCHF3 proteins 
following Aβ1-42 treatment. The endogenous Co-IP assay in combination with 
immunoblotting for ubiquitin signals was used to detect of NLRP3 ubiquitination 
level. We found that Bushen Huoxue Acupuncture protected cognitive impairment in 
AD mice. Bushen Huoxue Acupuncture inhibited hippocampal neuronal pyroptosis and 
the secretion of inflammatory cytokines in vivo. In SH-SY5Y cells, we found that 
Aβ1-42 decreased the binding of E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase MARCHF1 or MARCHF3 
with NLRP3, and the ubiquitination of NLRP3. In conclusion, Bushen Huoxue 
Acupuncture ameliorates AD by upregulating MARCHF3 to induce NLRP3 
ubiquitination and inhibits caspase-1-dependent pyroptosis.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-024-01459-9
PMCID: PMC11573812
PMID: 39556273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Consent for publication The data 
used in this study has never been published before. Competing interests The 
authors declare no competing interests. Conflict of interest The authors declare 
that they have no competing interests. Ethics approval All animal experiments 
were conducted with the approval of the Experimental Animal Ethics Committee of 
The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South University. All protocols were 
performed under conditions to minimize animal suffering. Consent to participate 
Not applicable.


2. Metab Brain Dis. 2024 Nov 18;40(1):12. doi: 10.1007/s11011-024-01441-5.

Gallic acid ameliorates LPS-induced memory decline by modulating NF-κB, TNF-α, 
and Caspase 3 gene expression and attenuating oxidative stress and neuronal loss 
in the rat hippocampus.

Dastan M(1), Rajaei Z(2), Sharifi M(3), Salehi H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran. rajaeiz@med.mui.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Genetics and Molecular Biology, School of Medicine, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(4)Department of Anatomical Sciences, School of Medicine, Isfahan University of 
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

Neuroinflammation and apoptosis play critical roles in the pathogenesis of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), which is responsible for most cases of dementia in the 
elderly people. Gallic acid is a phenolic compound with radical scavenging, 
anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic activities. This study aimed to explore the 
protective effects of gallic acid on LPS-induced spatial memory impairment and 
find the underlying mechanisms. Gallic acid was orally administered (100 mg/kg) 
to male Wistar rats for 12 days. LPS was injected intraperitoneally at a dose of 
1 mg/kg on days 8-12. Morris water maze paradigm was used to evaluate spatial 
learning and memory. The mRNA level of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), tumor 
necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and Caspase 3, lipid peroxidation and total thiol 
level was assessed in the rat hippocampus. Neuronal loss and histological 
changes were also evaluated in the brain. LPS treatment resulted in spatial 
learning and memory impairment, upregulation of NF-κB, TNF-α, and Caspase 3 mRNA 
expression, increased lipid peroxidation, decreased total thiol level, and 
neuronal loss in the hippocampus. Moreover, treatment with gallic acid at a 
dosage of 100 mg/kg ameliorated memory decline, reduced the mRNA level of NF-κB, 
TNF-α, and Caspase 3, decreased lipid peroxidation and increased total thiol 
level in the hippocampus. Gallic acid also prevented LPS-induced neuronal loss 
and histological changes in the brain. Conclusively, our study demonstrated that 
gallic acid exerts neuroprotective effect against LPS-induced memory decline in 
rats. This outcome could be due to anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and 
anti-apoptotic activities of gallic acid.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-024-01441-5
PMID: 39556267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethics approval All procedures were 
performed in accordance with the National Institute of Health Guide for the Care 
and Use of Laboratory Animals (NIH Publication, 8th edition, 2011). The Ethics 
Committee for Animal Experimentation at Isfahan University of Medical Sciences 
approved the study (IR.MUI.MED.REC.1400.820). Consent for publication Not 
applicable. Consent to participate Not applicable. Competing interests The 
authors declare no competing interests.


3. Metab Brain Dis. 2024 Nov 18;40(1):8. doi: 10.1007/s11011-024-01460-2.

Integrated systems pharmacology, molecular docking, and MD simulations 
investigation elucidating the therapeutic mechanisms of BHD in Alzheimer's 
disease treatment.

Chowdhury MR(1), Karamveer K(2), Tiwary BK(2), Nampoothiri NK(1), Erva RR(1), 
Deepa VS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Technology, Andhra 
Pradesh, 534101, India.
(2)Department of Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences, Pondicherry 
University, Pondicherry, 605014, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Technology, Andhra 
Pradesh, 534101, India. sudarshanadeepa@nitandhra.ac.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) poses a longstanding health challenge, prompting a 
century-long exploration into its etiology and progression. Despite significant 
advancements in medical science, current AD treatments provide only symptomatic 
relief, urging a shift towards innovative paradigms. This study, departing from 
the amyloid hypothesis, integrates Systems Pharmacology, Molecular Docking and 
Molecular Dynamic Simulations to investigate a polyherbal phytoformulation (US 
7,273,626 B2) rooted in Ayurveda for AD, consisting of Bacopa monnieri, 
Hippophae rhamnoides, and Dioscorea bulbifera (BHD). Diosgenin emerges as a 
crucial compound, aligning with previous studies, yet recognizing its 
limitations in explaining BHD's mechanism, this research delves into the 
intricate network of interactions. Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) network 
analysis identifies hub genes (ALOX5, GSK3B, ACHE, SRC, AKT1, EGFR, PIK3R1, ESR1 
and APP), suggesting a systems-level modulation of AD. Enrichment analyses 
unveil 370 AD-associated genes and key terms like "Cellular Response to Chemical 
Stimulus" and "Regulation of Biological Quality." KEGG pathway analysis 
underscores BHD's potential in Alzheimer's disease pathway (hsa05010), Endocrine 
resistance (hsa01522), and PI3K-Akt signaling (hsa04151). Molecular docking, 
carefully selecting compounds (Kaempferol, Quercetin, Myricetin, Isorhamnetin, 
Beta-Sitosterol, Stigmasterol, Emodin and Diosgenin) and top modulated targets, 
validates interactions with high dock scores, providing promising therapeutic 
avenues. Two core targets, Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and Estrogen Receptor 1 
(ESR1), were identified for further investigation due to their critical roles in 
Alzheimer's disease. To validate the molecular docking results, Molecular 
Dynamics (MD) simulations were performed on the AChE complexes with Myricetin, 
Beta-Sitosterol, and Stigmasterol, as well as the ESR1 complexes with Emodin, 
Diosgenin, and Beta-Sitosterol. These simulations were then compared to the 
interactions observed with the marketed drugs Donepezil and Estradiol, which are 
commonly used in Alzheimer's treatment. The MD simulations provided detailed 
insights into the stability and behavior of these complexes over time. The 
findings indicated that Myricetin and Emodin not only maintained stable 
interactions with AChE and ESR1 but also exhibited greater stability than 
Donepezil and Estradiol at specific time points and protein regions, as 
demonstrated by lower RMSD and RMSF values. These results suggest that natural 
compounds hold promise as potential therapeutic agents in the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease, offering new avenues for drug development, while the 
formulation BHD shows potential as an adjuvant in integrative medicine alongside 
standard Alzheimer's treatments, effectively targeting related pathways and 
genes.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-024-01460-2
PMID: 39556154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Competing interests The authors 
declare no competing interests. Data and materials All data and materials used 
to support the findings of this study are included within the article.


4. J Neurochem. 2025 Feb;169(2):e16255. doi: 10.1111/jnc.16255. Epub 2024 Nov 18.

A special focus on polyadenylation and alternative polyadenylation in 
neurodegenerative diseases: A systematic review.

Yeganeh Markid T(1), Pourahmadiyan A(2), Hamzeh S(3), Sharifi-Bonab M(1), Asadi 
MR(4), Jalaiei A(4), Rezazadeh M(1)(4), Ghafouri-Fard S(5).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Development Unit of Tabriz Valiasr Hospital, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Basic Health Sciences Institute, 
Shahrekord University of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.
(3)Student Research Committee, School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(5)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are one of the prevailing conditions 
characterized by progressive neuronal loss. Polyadenylation (PA) and alternative 
polyadenylation (APA) are the two main post-transcriptional events that regulate 
neuronal gene expression and protein production. This systematic review analyzed 
the available literature on the role of PA and APA in NDDs, with an emphasis on 
their contributions to disease development. A comprehensive literature search 
was performed using the PubMed, Scopus, Cochrane, Google Scholar, Embase, Web of 
Science, and ProQuest databases. The search strategy was developed based on the 
framework introduced by Arksey and O'Malley and supplemented by the inclusion 
and exclusion criteria. The study selection was performed by two independent 
reviewers. Extraction and data organization were performed in accordance with 
the predefined variables. Subsequently, quantitative and qualitative analyses 
were performed. Forty-seven studies were included, related to a variety of NDDs, 
namely Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Disease induction was performed using different 
models, including human tissues, animal models, and cultured cells. Most 
investigations were related to PA, although some were related to APA or both. 
Amyloid precursor protein (APP), Tau, SNCA, and STMN2 were the major genes 
identified; most of the altered PA patterns were related to mRNA stability and 
translation efficiency. This review particularly underscores the key roles of PA 
and APA in the pathogenesis of NDDs through their mechanisms that contribute to 
gene expression dysregulation, protein aggregation, and neuronal dysfunction. 
Insights into these mechanisms may lead to new therapeutic strategies focused on 
the modulation of PA and APA activities. Further research is required to 
investigate the translational potential of targeting these pathways for NDD 
treatment.

© 2024 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.16255
PMID: 39556113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Mov Disord. 2025 Jan;40(1):108-120. doi: 10.1002/mds.30055. Epub 2024 Nov 18.

(18)F-Florzolotau PET Imaging Unveils Tau Pathology in Dementia with Lewy 
Bodies.

Tang G(1), Lu JY(2), Li XY(1), Yao RX(1), Yang YJ(3), Jiao FY(2), Chen MJ(1), 
Liang XN(1)(4), Ju ZZ(2), Ge JJ(2), Zhao YX(1), Shen B(1), Wu P(2), Sun YM(1), 
Wu JJ(1), Yen TC(5), Zuo C(2), Wang J(1), Zhao QH(1)(4)(6), Zhang HW(2), Liu 
FT(1); Shanghai Memory Study (SMS) and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Neuroimage 
Initiative (PSPNI).

Collaborators: Zhao QH, Ding D, Chen KL, Liang XN, Ding SN, Xiao ZX, Ma XX, 
Zheng L, Wang J, Zuo C, Liu FT, Lu JY, Li XY, Wu JJ, Ding ZT, Chen Y, Sun YM, 
Shen B, Zhao J, Tang YL, Wu P, Zhang HW, Chen C, Wu B, Liang XN, Zhao YX, Chen 
MJ, Yao RX, Tang G, Han XX, Chen Y, Hu YJ, Zhang J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, National Research Center for Aging and Medicine, 
National Center for Neurological Disorders, and State Key Laboratory of Medical 
Neurobiology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine and PET Center, National Center for 
Neurological Disorders, and National Clinical Research Center for Aging and 
Medicine, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai YangZhi Rehabilitation Hospital (Shanghai Sunshine Rehabilitation 
Center), School of Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
(4)Institute of Neurology, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(5)APRINOIA Therapeutics, Suzhou, China.
(6)MOE Frontiers Center for Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) commonly exhibits a complex 
neuropathology, sharing characteristics with Alzheimer's disease (AD), including 
tau aggregates. However, studies using the 18F-AV-1451 tau tracer have shown 
inconsistent findings regarding both the extent and topographical distribution 
of tau pathology in DLB.
OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to elucidate the topographical patterns of tau 
deposition in DLB and to investigate the in vivo pathological distinction 
between DLB and AD in virtue of the 18F-Florzolotau positron emission tomography 
(PET) imaging.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study enrolled patients with DLB (n = 24), AD 
(n = 43), and cognitively healthy controls (n = 18). Clinical assessments and 
18F-Florzolotau PET imaging were performed. 18F-Florzolotau binding was 
quantitatively assessed on PET images using standardized uptake value ratios and 
voxel-wise analysis.
RESULTS: 18F-Florzolotau PET imaging revealed widespread tau deposition across 
various cortical regions in DLB, uncovering heterogeneous topographical 
patterns. Among patients, 54.17% showed patterns similar to AD, whereas 16.67% 
exhibited distinct patterns. Compared to AD, DLB exhibited a unique in vivo 
neuropathological profile, characterized by a lower tau protein burden, 
heterogeneous topographical distributions, and a specific role of the medial 
temporal lobe in tau pathology.
CONCLUSIONS: 18F-Florzolotau PET imaging elucidated tau pathology patterns in 
DLB, providing valuable insights for future in vivo pathological differentiation 
and potential disease-modifying therapies. © 2024 International Parkinson and 
Movement Disorder Society.

© 2024 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.30055
PMID: 39555939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Adv Sci (Weinh). 2025 Jan;12(2):e2412184. doi: 10.1002/advs.202412184. Epub
2024  Nov 18.

Microglial Lyzl4 Facilitates β-Amyloid Clearance in Alzheimer's Disease.

Pan J(1), Zhong J(2)(3), Geng J(1), Oberhauser J(1)(4), Shi S(5), Wan J(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, 
CA, 94305, USA.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory for Neuronal Structural Biology, Biomedical Research 
Institute, Shenzhen Peking University - The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology Medical Center, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, 518036, China.
(3)Department of Systems Biology, School of Life Sciences, Southern University 
of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, 518055, China.
(4)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, 94143, USA.
(5)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research (FMI), Basel, 4056, 
Switzerland.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, School of Life Sciences, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, 518055, China.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition characterized by the 
accumulation and deposition of amyloid-β (Aβ) aggregates in the brain. Despite a 
wealth of research on the toxicity of Aβ and its role in synaptic damage, the 
mechanisms facilitating Aβ clearance are not yet fully understood. However, 
microglia, the primary immune cells of the central nervous system, are known to 
maintain homeostasis through the phagocytic clearance of protein aggregates and 
cellular debris. In this study, RNA sequencing analysis and live cell functional 
screens are employed to uncover microglial genetic modifiers related to AD. 
Lyzl4 is identified, which encodes a c-type lysozyme-like enzyme primarily 
localized to microglial lysosomes, as a gene significantly upregulated in AD 
microglia with aging and propose that Lyzl4 upregulation acts as a positive 
regulator of Aβ clearance. Furthermore, it is found that Lyzl4 overexpression 
boosts Aβ clearance both in vitro and in vivo, underscoring its potential for 
mitigating Aβ burden. These novel insights position Lyzl4 as a promising 
therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease, paving the way for further 
exploration into potential AD treatments.

© 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/advs.202412184
PMCID: PMC11727385
PMID: 39555667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


7. Cogn Neurodyn. 2024 Oct;18(5):3157-3180. doi: 10.1007/s11571-024-10148-3. Epub
 2024 Jul 8.

Controlling Alzheimer's disease by deep brain stimulation based on a data-driven 
cortical network model.

Yan S(1), Yang X(1), Duan Z(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Mathematics and Statistics, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, 
710062 People's Republic of China.

This work aims to explore the control effect of DBS on Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
from a neurocomputational perspective. Firstly, a data-driven cortical network 
model is constructed using the Diffusion Tensor Imaging data. Then, a typical 
electrophysiological feature of EEG slowing in AD is reproduced by reducing the 
synaptic connectivity parameters. The corresponding changes in kinetic behavior 
mainly include an oscillation decrease in the amplitude and frequency of the 
pyramidal neuron population. Subsequently, DBS current with specific parameters 
is introduced into three potential targets of the hippocampus, the nucleus 
accumbens and the olfactory tubercle, respectively. The results indicate that 
applying DBS to simulated mild AD patients induces an increase in relative alpha 
power, a decrease in relative theta power, and a significant rightward shift of 
the dominant frequency. This is consistent with the EEG reversal in 
pharmacological treatments for AD. Further, the optimal stimulation strategy of 
DBS is investigated through spectral and statistical analyses. Specifically, the 
pathological symptoms of AD could be alleviated by adjusting the critical 
parameters of DBS, and the control effect of DBS on various targets is that the 
hippocampus is superior to the olfactory tubercle and nucleus accumbens. 
Finally, using correlation analysis between the power increments and the nodal 
degrees, it is concluded that the control effect of DBS is related to the 
importance of the nodes in the brain network. This study provides a theoretical 
guidance for determining DBS targets and parameters, which may have 
a substantial impact on the development of DBS treatment for AD.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2024. Springer 
Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights 
to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other 
rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of 
this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and 
applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s11571-024-10148-3
PMCID: PMC11564625
PMID: 39555293

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare no 
conflict of interest or competing interests.


8. Cogn Neurodyn. 2024 Oct;18(5):2993-3013. doi: 10.1007/s11571-024-10130-z. Epub
 2024 Jun 10.

Automatic detection of Alzheimer's disease from EEG signals using an improved 
AFS-GA hybrid algorithm.

Wang R(1), He Q(#)(1), Shi L(#)(1), Che Y(2)(3), Xu H(1), Song C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Information Technology Engineering, Tianjin University of 
Technology and Education, Tianjin, 300350 China.
(2)School of Automation and Electrical Engineering, Tianjin University of 
Technology and Education, Tianjin, 300222 China.
(3)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Information Sensing and Intelligent Control, 
Tianjin University of Technology and Education, Tianjin, 300222 China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by energy 
diffusion and partial disconnection in the brain, with its main feature being an 
insidious onset and subtle clinical symptoms. Electroencephalogram (EEG) as a 
primary tool for assessing and aiding in the diagnosis of brain diseases has 
been widely used in AD detection. Accurate diagnosis is crucial for preventing 
the transition from early cognitive impairment to AD and providing early 
treatment for AD patients. This study aims to establish a hybrid model based on 
the Improved Artificial Fish Swarm Algorithm (IAFS) and Genetic Algorithm 
(GA)-IAFS-GA, to determine the optimal channel combination for AD detection 
under multiple EEG signals. Geometric features and complexity features of AD EEG 
signals were extracted using Second Order Difference Plot (SODP) and entropy 
analysis across the full frequency band. Subsequently, Pearson correlation was 
used for feature ranking, selecting the six least correlated features for each 
channel. The Relief algorithm was then used to fuse these selected features, 
with one fused feature representing one channel. Based on this, a feature 
selection optimization algorithm, IAFS-GA, combining the improved artificial 
fish swarm algorithm and genetic algorithm, was proposed. Finally, the feature 
combination was input into a Naive Bayes classifier for the identification of AD 
patients and normal controls. The feature combination was input into a Naive 
Bayes classifier for the identification of AD patients and normal controls. 
Using a five-fold cross-validation strategy across the entire frequency band, 
the classification accuracy reached 93.53%, with a sensitivity of 98.74%, 
specificity of 98.25%, and an AUC area of 97.82%. This framework can quickly 
select appropriate brain channels to enhance the efficiency of detecting AD and 
other neurological diseases. Moreover, it is the first time that an improved 
artificial fish swarm genetic combination algorithm and SODP features has been 
used for channel selection in EEG, proving to be an effective method for AD 
detection. It is based on SODP analysis, entropy analysis, and intelligent 
algorithms, which can assist clinicians in rapidly diagnosing AD, reducing the 
misdiagnosis rate of false positives, and expanding our understanding of brain 
function in patients with neurological diseases.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2024. Springer 
Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights 
to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other 
rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of 
this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and 
applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s11571-024-10130-z
PMCID: PMC11564554
PMID: 39555281

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that the 
research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential Conflict of interest.


9. Cogn Neurodyn. 2024 Oct;18(5):3195-3208. doi: 10.1007/s11571-024-10153-6. Epub
 2024 Jul 19.

STEADYNet: Spatiotemporal EEG analysis for dementia detection using 
convolutional neural network.

Kachare PH(1)(2), Sangle SB(2), Puri DV(2), Khubrani MM(1), Al-Shourbaji I(1).

Author information:
(1)Jazan University College of Engineering, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Computer Science & Engineering, Ramrao Adik Institute of 
Technology, Navi Mumbai, India.

Dementia is a neuro-degenerative disorder with a high death rate, mainly due to 
high human error, time, and cost of the current clinical diagnostic techniques. 
The existing dementia detection methods using hand-crafted electroencephalogram 
(EEG) signal features are unreliable. A convolution neural network using 
spatiotemporal EEG signals (STEADYNet) is presented to improve the dementia 
detection. The STEADYNet uses a multichannel temporal EEG signal as input. The 
network is grouped into feature extraction and classification components. The 
feature extraction comprises two convolution layers to generate complex 
features, a max-pooling layer to reduce the EEG signal's spatiotemporal 
redundancy, and a dropout layer to improve the network's generalization. The 
classification processes the feature extraction output nonlinearly using two 
fully-connected layers to generate salient features and a softmax layer to 
generate disease probabilities. Two publicly available multiclass datasets of 
dementia are used for evaluation. The STEADYNet outperforms existing automatic 
dementia detection methods with accuracies of 99.29% , 99.65% , and 92.25% for 
Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment, and frontotemporal dementia, 
respectively. The STEADYNet has a low inference time and floating point 
operations, suitable for real-time applications. It may aid neurologists in 
efficient detection and treatment. A Python implementation of the STEADYNet is 
available at https://github.com/SandeepSangle12/STEADYNet.git.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2024. Springer 
Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights 
to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other 
rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of 
this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and 
applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s11571-024-10153-6
PMCID: PMC11564718
PMID: 39555263

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare no 
Conflict of interest regarding this paper.


10. Acta Naturae. 2024 Jul-Sep;16(3):51-59. doi: 10.32607/actanaturae.27439.

Cannula Implantation Reduces the Severity of the Beta Amyloid Effect on 
Peroxidized Lipids and Glutathione Levels in the Brain of BALB/c Mice.

Mukhina KA(1), Mitkevich VA(1), Popova IY(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Moscow, 119991 Russian Federation.
(2)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Pushchino, 142290 Russian Federation.

Sporadic Alzheimer's disease (sAD) is the most common of neurodegenerative 
disorders. The lack of effective therapy indicates that the mechanisms of sAD 
development remain poorly understood. To investigate this pathology in animals, 
intracerebroventricular injection of β-amyloid peptide (Aβ) using a Hamilton 
syringe, either during stereotactic surgery or through a pre-implanted cannula, 
is used. In this study, we analyzed the effect of chronic cannula implantation 
on the severity of Aβ effects at the behavioral, histological, and biochemical 
levels. The results showed that the local damage to neural tissue caused by 
cannulation has no bearing on the effect of Aβ on animal behavior and the 
microglial parameters of the unilateral hippocampus two weeks after the Aβ 
administration. However, cannula implantation fundamentally modifies some 
biochemical markers of the oxidative stress that occurs in the brain tissue in 
response to Aβ administration. Thus, the presence of a cannula reduces the 
severity of the Aβ impact on the levels of peroxidized lipids and glutathione 
two- and 10-fold, respectively. It is important to note that the detected 
changes are chronic and systemic. This is known because the homogenate of the 
entire contralateral (in relation to the cannula implantation site) hemisphere 
was analyzed, and the analysis was performed two weeks after implantation. At 
the same time, cannulation does not affect the rate of reactive oxygen species 
production. The obtained data indicate that chronic implantation of a cannula 
into the brain of experimental animals fundamentally distorts some parameters of 
oxidative stress in the neural tissue, which are widely used to assess the 
severity of experimental Alzheimer's-type diseases.

Copyright ® 2024 National Research University Higher School of Economics.

DOI: 10.32607/actanaturae.27439
PMCID: PMC11569840
PMID: 39555175


11. Front Pharmacol. 2024 Nov 1;15:1496661. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1496661. 
eCollection 2024.

Advances of curcumin in nervous system diseases: the effect of regulating 
oxidative stress and clinical studies.

Wei Y(#)(1), Li H(#)(2), Li Y(3), Zeng Y(1), Quan T(1), Leng Y(1), Chang E(1), 
Bai Y(1), Bian Y(4), Hou Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Department, Clinical Trial Institution, The People's Hospital of 
Zhongjiang, Deyang, China.
(2)West China School of Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(3)Molecular Urooncology, Department of Urology, Klinikum Rechts der Isar, 
Technical University of Munich, München, Germany.
(4)Department of Oncology, 363 Hospital, Chengdu, China.
(#)Contributed equally

In recent years, researchers have highly observed that neurological disorders 
(NSDs) with the aging of the population are a global health burden whose 
prevalence is increasing every year. Previous evidence suggested that the 
occurrence of neurological disorders is correlated with predisposing factors 
such as inflammation, aging, and injury. Particularly, the neuronal cells are 
susceptible to oxidative stress, leading to lesions caused by high 
oxygen-consuming properties. Oxidative stress (OS) is a state of peroxidation, 
which occurs as a result of the disruption of the balance between oxidizing and 
antioxidizing substances. The oxidative intermediates such as free radicals, 
hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), and superoxide anion (O2-) produced by OS promote 
disease progression. Curcumin, a natural diketone derived from turmeric, is a 
natural antioxidant with a wide range of neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory, 
anti-tumor, anti-aging, and antioxidant effects. Fortunately, curcumin is 
recognized for its potent antioxidant properties and is considered a promising 
candidate for the prevention and treatment of neurological diseases. 
Consequently, this review elucidates the mechanisms by which curcumin mitigates 
oxidative stress and emphasizes the potential in treating nervous system 
disorders, including depression, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
epilepsy, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and glioblastoma. We aim to provide a new 
therapeutic option for the management of neurological diseases.

Copyright © 2024 Wei, Li, Li, Zeng, Quan, Leng, Chang, Bai, Bian and Hou.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1496661
PMCID: PMC11563972
PMID: 39555102

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


12. Front Aging Neurosci. 2024 Nov 1;16:1416816. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1416816.
 eCollection 2024.

Network-based statistics reveals an enhanced subnetwork in prefrontal cortex in 
mild cognitive impairment: a functional near-infrared spectroscopy study.

Wu P(#)(1), Lv Z(#)(2), Bi Y(3), Li Y(4), Chen H(3), Jiang J(1), Pang S(3), Zhao 
X(3), Jiang W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Rehabilitation, Jiangbin Hospital of Guangxi 
Zhuang Autonomous Region, Nanning, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Rehabilitation Technical Aids for Old-Age 
Disability, National Research Center for Rehabilitation Technical Aids, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Cognitive Rehabilitation Center, Jiangbin Hospital of Guangxi Zhuang 
Autonomous Region, Nanning, China.
(4)Faculty of Science and Engineering, University of Nottingham Ningbo, Ningbo, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is generally considered to have a 
high risk of progression to Alzheimer's disease. Our study aimed to investigate 
the abnormal functional connectivity (FC) in prefrontal cortex (PFC) in patients 
with MCI and explore the relationship between the observed changes and cognitive 
function.
METHODS: Sixty-seven patients with MCI and 71 healthy individuals were recruited 
for this study. All participants underwent the Montreal Cognitive Assessment 
(MoCA) and functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) examinations.
RESULTS: Compared with healthy controls (HC), the patients with MCI exhibited 
significantly lower MoCA scores (p < 0.001). Through FC analysis, an enhanced 
subnetwork was observed in the right prefrontal cortex of the MCI group, 
covering four pairs of channel connections: CH12-CH15, CH12-CH16, CH13-CH15, and 
CH13-CH16. Moreover, the FC values of these four channel pairs and the education 
duration were significantly correlated with MoCA scores. Subsequently, a 
multiple linear regression model was performed to observe the independent 
factors of cognition decline, serving the education duration and the average FC 
values of subnetwork as independent variables and the MoCA scores as the 
dependent variable. The regression model showed a total of 25.7% explanation 
power (adjusted R2 = 0.257, F = 24.723, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Our study suggested that the enhanced subnetwork within the right 
PFC may be involved in the pathophysiology of MCI and serve as a potential 
target for the treatment of MCI.

Copyright © 2024 Wu, Lv, Bi, Li, Chen, Jiang, Pang, Zhao and Jiang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1416816
PMCID: PMC11565517
PMID: 39554484

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


13. ACS Omega. 2024 Oct 30;9(45):45203-45213. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.4c06430. 
eCollection 2024 Nov 12.

A Novel G-Quadruplex Structure within Apolipoprotein E Promoter: A New Promising 
Target in Cancer and Dementia Fight?

Pirota V(1)(2), Stritto AD(3), Magnaghi LR(1)(4), Biesuz R(1)(4), Doria F(1), 
Mella M(1), Freccero M(1), Crespan E(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Pavia, via Taramelli 10, I-27100 
Pavia, Italy.
(2)G4-INTERACT, USERN, via Taramelli 10, I-27100 Pavia, Italy.
(3)Istituto di Genetica Molecolare "Luigi Luca Cavalli-Sforza", via 
Abbiategrasso 207, I-27100 Pavia, Italy.
(4)Unità di Ricerca di Pavia, Via G. Giusti 9, I-50121 Firenze, Italy.

Human apolipoprotein E (APOE) is a crucial lipid transport glycoprotein involved 
in various biological processes, including lipid metabolism, immune response, 
and neurodegeneration. Elevated APOE levels are linked to poor prognosis in 
several cancers and increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, 
modulating APOE expression presents a promising therapeutic strategy for both 
cancer and AD. Considering the pivotal role of G-quadruplex (G4) structures in 
medicinal chemistry as modulators of gene expression, here, we present a newly 
discovered G-quadruplex (G4) structure within the ApoE gene promoter. 
Bioinformatic analysis identified 21 potential G4-forming sequences in the ApoE 
promoter, with the more proximal to the transcription start site, pApoE, showing 
the highest G-score. Biophysical studies confirmed the folding of pApoE into a 
stable parallel G4 under physiological conditions, supported by circular 
dichroism, NMR spectroscopy, UV-melting, and a quantitative PCR stop assay. 
Moreover, the ability to modulate pApoE-G4 folding was demonstrated by using 
G4-stabilizing ligands (HPHAM, Braco19, and PDS), which increased the thermal 
stability of pApoE-G4. In contrast, peptide nucleic acid conjugates were 
synthesized to disrupt G4 formation, effectively hybridizing with pApoE 
sequences, and confirming the potential to unfold G4 structures. Overall, our 
findings provide a mainstay for future therapeutic approaches targeting ApoE-G4s 
to regulate APOE expression, offering potential advancements in cancer and AD 
treatment.

© 2024 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.4c06430
PMCID: PMC11561760
PMID: 39554422

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


14. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 29:2024.10.24.619910. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.24.619910.

Cytokine-induced reprogramming of human macrophages toward Alzheimer's 
disease-relevant molecular and cellular phenotypes in vitro.

Podlesny-Drabiniok A(1), Romero-Molina C(1), Patel T(1), See WY(1), Liu Y(1), 
Marcora E(1), Goate AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Department of Genetics & 
Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 1 Gustave L. Levy 
Place, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Update in
    Cell Rep. 2025 Jul 22;44(7):115909. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2025.115909.

Myeloid cells including brain-resident (microglia) and peripheral macrophages 
play a crucial role in various pathological conditions, including 
neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's disease (AD). They respond to 
disruption of tissue homeostasis associated with disease conditions by acquiring 
various transcriptional and functional states. Experimental investigation of 
these states is hampered by the lack of tools that enable accessible and robust 
reprogramming of human macrophages toward Alzheimer's disease-relevant molecular 
and cellular phenotypes in vitro. In this study, we investigated the ability of 
a cytokine mix, including interleukin-4 (IL4), colony stimulating factor 1 
(CSF1/MCSF), interleukin 34 (IL34) and transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ), 
to induce reprogramming of cultured human THP-1 macrophages. Our results 
indicate this treatment led to significant transcriptomic changes, driving THP-1 
macrophages towards a transcriptional state reminiscent of disease-associated 
microglia (DAM) and lipid-associated macrophages (LAM) collectively referred to 
as DLAM. Transcriptome profiling revealed gene expression changes related to 
oxidative phosphorylation, lysosome function, and lipid metabolism. Single-cell 
RNA sequencing revealed an increased proportion of DLAM clusters in cytokine 
mix-treated THP-1 macrophages. Functional assays demonstrated alterations in 
cell motility, phagocytosis, lysosomal activity, and metabolic and energetic 
profiles. Our findings provide insights into the cytokine-mediated reprogramming 
of macrophages towards disease-relevant states, highlighting their role in 
neurodegenerative diseases and potential for therapeutic development.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.24.619910
PMCID: PMC11565805
PMID: 39554174

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests A.M.G.: Scientific 
Advisory Board (SAB) Genentech; SAB Muna Therapeutics; E.M.: consultant Dorian 
Therapeutics, Turn Biotechnologies.


15. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 28:2024.10.28.620698. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.28.620698.

Levetiracetam prevents Aβ(42) production through SV2a-dependent modulation of 
App processing in Alzheimer's disease models.

Rao NR(1), DeGulis O(1), Nomura T(2), Lee S(1), Hark TJ(1), Dynes JC(1), Dexter 
EX(1), Dulewicz M(3), Ge J(3), Upadhyay A(1), Fornasiero EF(4), Vassar R(1), 
Hanrieder J(3)(5), Contractor A(2), Savas JN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine; 
Chicago, IL USA.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine; Chicago, IL USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg; Mölndal, Sweden.
(4)Department of Neuro- and Sensory Physiology, University Medical Center 
Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative disease, Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
University College London, London, UK.

In Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyloid-beta (Aβ) peptides are produced by 
proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), which can occur 
during synaptic vesicle (SV) cycling at presynapses. Precisely how amyloidogenic 
APP processing may impair presynaptic proteostasis and how to therapeutically 
target this process remains poorly understood. Using App knock-in mouse models 
of early Aβ pathology, we found proteins with hampered degradation accumulate at 
presynaptic sites. At this mild pathological stage, amyloidogenic processing 
leads to accumulation of Aβ42 inside SVs. To explore if targeting SVs modulates 
Aβ accumulation, we investigated levetiracetam (Lev), a SV-binding small 
molecule drug that has shown promise in mitigating AD-related pathologies 
despite its mechanism of action being unclear. We discovered Lev reduces Aβ42 
levels by decreasing amyloidogenic processing of APP in a SV2a-dependent manner. 
Lev corrects SV protein levels and cycling, which results in increased surface 
localization of APP, where it favors processing via the non-amyloidogenic 
pathway. Using metabolic stable isotopes and mass spectrometry we confirmed that 
Lev prevents the production of Aβ42 in vivo. In transgenic mice with aggressive 
pathology, electrophysiological and immunofluorescent microscopy analyses 
revealed that Lev treatment reduces SV cycling and minimizes synapse loss. 
Finally, we found that human Down syndrome brains with early Aβ pathology, have 
elevated levels of presynaptic proteins, confirming a comparable presynaptic 
deficit in human brains. Taken together, we report a mechanism that highlights 
the therapeutic potential of Lev to modify the early stages of AD and represent 
a promising strategy to prevent Aβ42 pathology before irreversible damage 
occurs.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.28.620698
PMCID: PMC11565754
PMID: 39554163

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


16. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 29:2024.10.29.620882. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.29.620882.

BT-11 repurposing potential for Alzheimer's disease and insights into its mode 
of actions.

Birnbaum EM, Xie L, Serrano P, Rockwell P, Figueiredo-Pereira ME.

Neuroinflammation is a key pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Investigational and FDA approved drugs targeting inflammation already exist, 
thus drug repurposing for AD is a suitable approach. BT-11 is an investigational 
drug that reduces inflammation in the gut and improves cognitive function. BT-11 
is orally active and binds to lanthionine synthetase C-like 2 (LANCL2), a 
glutathione-s-transferase, thus potentially reducing oxidative stress. We 
investigated the effects of BT-11 long-term treatment on the TgF344-AD rat 
model. BT-11 reduced hippocampal-dependent spatial memory deficits, Aβ plaque 
load and neuronal loss in males, and mitigated microglia numbers in females. 
BT-11 treatment led to hippocampal transcriptomic changes in signaling receptor, 
including G-protein coupled receptor pathways. We detected LANCL2 in hippocampal 
nuclear and cytoplasmic fractions with potential different post-translational 
modifications, suggesting distinct functions based on its subcellular 
localization. LANCL2 was present in oligodendrocytes, showing a role in 
oligodendrocyte function. To our knowledge, these last two findings have not 
been reported. Overall, our data suggest that targeting LANCL2 with BT-11 
improves cognition and reduces AD-like pathology by potentially modulating 
G-protein signaling and oligodendrocyte function. Our studies contribute to the 
field of novel immunomodulatory AD therapeutics, and merit further research on 
the role of LANCL2 in this disease.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.29.620882
PMCID: PMC11565763
PMID: 39553925


17. Basic Clin Neurosci. 2024 Jul-Aug;15(4):463-476. doi:
10.32598/bcn.2024.1856.1.  Epub 2024 Jul 1.

The 40-Hz White Light Emitting Diode to Alleviate Psychiatric Symptoms Induced 
by Streptozotocin In Vivo.

Soleimani E(1), Ahmadiani A(1), Bazrgar M(1), Khodagholi F(1), Eliassi A(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Neurophysiology Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: A 40-Hz white light emitting diode (WLED) has emerged as an 
alternative nonpharmacological and noninvasive approach to Alzheimer disease 
(AD). Here, we investigated the therapeutic effects of 40-Hz WLED on psychiatric 
symptoms (PS) and the contribution of mitochondrial factors in the early stages 
of sporadic AD (sAD) in rats.
METHODS: In male Wistar rats, the AD model was induced via 
intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of streptozotocin (STZ). After 
recovering (7 days) from stereotaxic surgery, 40-Hz WLED exposure was performed 
for 7 consecutive days lasting 15 min/d. Behavioral (elevated plus maze (EPM), 
force swim test, and social interaction test), enzymatic, and molecular assays 
were conducted 24 hours after the last 40-Hz WLED exposure.
RESULTS: Behavioral tasks revealed that 40-Hz WLED exposure in STZ-induced 
toxicity rats lowered anxiety and depression and increased social interaction. 
Furthermore, the 40-Hz WLED therapy in STZ-induced toxicity rats increased 
catalase (CAT) activity in the amygdala, decreased the activity of monoamine 
oxidases A and B in the whole brain, and increased mitochondrial DNA in the 
hippocampus.
CONCLUSION: The current study supports that 40-Hz WLED therapy improved PS and 
biomarkers in the early stages of sAD. Also, a potential relationship between PS 
and alterations in mitochondrial markers in certain brain regions seems to 
exist.

Copyright© 2024 Iranian Neuroscience Society.

DOI: 10.32598/bcn.2024.1856.1
PMCID: PMC11565670
PMID: 39553262


18. Alzheimers Dement (Amst). 2024 Nov 15;16(4):e70024. doi: 10.1002/dad2.70024. 
eCollection 2024 Oct-Dec.

Hippocampal volumes in UK Biobank are associated with APOE only in older adults.

Chaloemtoem A(1), Thornton V(1), Chang Y(1), Anokhin AP(1), Belloy ME(2)(3), 
Bijsterbosch J(4), Gordon BA(2)(4), Hartz SM(1), Bierut LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry Washington University School of Medicine St. Louis 
Missouri USA.
(2)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center Washington University School of Medicine 
St. Louis Missouri USA.
(3)Department of Neurology Washington University School of Medicine St. Louis 
Missouri USA.
(4)Department of Radiology Washington University School of Medicine St. Louis 
Missouri USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Jun 05:2024.06.05.24307704. doi: 10.1101/2024.06.05.24307704.

INTRODUCTION: The hippocampus atrophies with age and is implicated in 
neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD). We examined the 
interplay between age and apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype on total hippocampal 
volume.
METHODS: Using neuroimaging data from 37,463 UK Biobank participants, we applied 
linear regression to quantify the association of age and APOE with hippocampal 
volume and identified the age when volumes of ε2/ε3, ε3/ε4, and ε4/ε4 carriers 
significantly deviated from ε3/ε3 using generalized additive modeling.
RESULTS: Total hippocampal volume declined with age, with significant 
differences by APOE genotype emerging after age 60. ε3/ε4 and ε4/ε4 carriers 
displayed reduced volumes from ages 69 and 61, respectively, while ε2/ε3 showed 
delayed decline starting at the age of 76.
DISCUSSION: The association of APOE and hippocampal volume is age-dependent, 
with differences in volumes of ε4/ε4 carriers detected as early as age 61. This 
work underscores the importance of APOE genotype in determining when to begin 
screening for AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype shows an age-dependent association 
with total hippocampal volume.No association between APOE and total hippocampal 
volume was detected before age 60.Accelerated decline was observed in ε4/ε4 
carriers at age 61 and ε3/ε4 at age 69.Delayed decline was evident in ε2/ε3 
carriers starting at age 76.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease 
Monitoring published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/dad2.70024
PMCID: PMC11567847
PMID: 39553251

Conflict of interest statement: L.J.B. is listed as an inventor on Issued U.S. 
Patent 8,080,371, “Markers for Addiction,” which covers the use of certain 
single nucleotide polymorphisms in determining the diagnosis, prognosis, and 
treatment of addiction. All other authors reported no biomedical financial 
interests or potential conflicts of interest. Author disclosures are available 
in the supporting information.


19. Cureus. 2024 Oct 17;16(10):e71731. doi: 10.7759/cureus.71731. eCollection
2024  Oct.

Alois Alzheimer (1864-1915): The Father of Modern Dementia Research and the 
Discovery of Alzheimer's Disease.

Thakor VS(1), Tyagi A(2), Lee JM Jr(3), Coffman F(1), Mittal R(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Informatics, Rutgers University, Piscataway, USA.
(2)Orthopedic Surgery, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New 
Brunswick, USA.
(3)Orthopedic Surgery, Orange Orthopedic Associates, West Orange, USA.

Alois Alzheimer was a German psychologist and neuropathologist who significantly 
advanced the study of dementia with his discovery of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Based on his assessment of a 51-year-old female patient with symptoms of 
presenile dementia and after conducting a postmortem autopsy of her brain, 
Alzheimer distinguished two neurological substances - senile plaques and 
neurofibrillary tangles - as unique markers of what was later deemed as AD. He 
recognized that dementia is not a natural consequence of age but rather a 
recognizable neurocognitive disorder. Despite the long-lasting criticism of his 
findings, Alzheimer's discovery fundamentally altered the landscape of 
neuropathological studies by establishing that AD was a clinically identifiable 
disease with distinct markers that could be targeted for treatment. Today, 
modern research on AD continues to build on the foundation laid by Alzheimer's 
discovery.

Copyright © 2024, Thakor et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.71731
PMCID: PMC11568893
PMID: 39553038

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


20. Nanomedicine (Lond). 2024;19(30):2537-2553. doi:
10.1080/17435889.2024.2419814.  Epub 2024 Nov 18.

Nanoformulated fisetin ameliorates Alzheimer's disease via reducing 
proinflammatory cytokines and activating the NRF2/HO-1 pathway.

Rakshit D(1), Goyal R(1), Yadav V(1), Gore SK(2), Sen S(2), Ranjan OP(2), Mishra 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education & Research (NIPER) - Guwahati, Changsari, Kamrup, Assam, 781101, 
India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology (Formulations), National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education & Research (NIPER) - Guwahati, Changsari, Kamrup, 
Assam, 781101, India.

Aim: The study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effect of a chitosan-coated 
fisetin nanoformulation in an experimental Alzheimer's disease (AD) model, 
focusing on improving fisetin's pharmacokinetics and exploring its impact on 
both brain and colon pathology.Materials & methods: AD was induced in mice by 
intracerebroventricular administration of Aβ1-42. Mice were treated with either 
fisetin or a fisetin nanoformulation (5 mg/kg/day, orally) for 21 days. 
Behavioural assessments were conducted to evaluate memory impairment, motor 
deficits, and depression-like behaviour. Oxidative stress markers and 
pro-inflammatory cytokines were measured in the cortex, hippocampus and colon. 
The changes in cortical and hippocampal AChE levels were also recorded. 
Histological studies were performed on the cortex, hippocampus (dentate gyrus), 
and proximal colon.Results: The fisetin nanoformulation significantly improved 
neurobehavioral outcomes, reducing memory impairment, motor deficits and 
depression-like symptoms induced by Aβ1-42. It also decreased oxidative and 
nitrosative stress, along with pro-inflammatory cytokine levels in the cortex, 
hippocampus and colon. Histological analyses revealed improved brain and colon 
tissue architecture after treatment with the nanoformulation.Conclusion: The 
chitosan-coated fisetin nanoformulation enhanced the neuroprotective effects of 
fisetin in an AD model, likely by improving its pharmacokinetic profile. The 
findings also suggest a potential link between colon health and Aβ-induced AD 
pathology, underscoring the therapeutic potential of fisetin nanoformulations in 
AD management.

Plain Language Summary: [Box: see text].

DOI: 10.1080/17435889.2024.2419814
PMID: 39552578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2024 Dec;38(12):e70048. doi: 10.1002/jbt.70048.

Plausible Action of N-(3,4-Dimethoxy-Phenyl)-6,7-Dimethoxyquinazoline-4-Amine 
(TKM01) as an Armor Against Alzheimer's Disease: In Silico and In Vivo Insights.

Kashif M(1), Chandrabose K(2), Pandurangan AK(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, B.S. Abdur Rahman Crescent Institute of Science and 
Technology, Chennai, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Indira Gandhi National Tribal University, Amarkantak, 
Madhya Pradesh, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects millions of people and has limited treatment 
options, thus making it a global health concern. Amyloid β (Aβ), a disrupted 
cholinergic system with high acetylcholinesterase (AChE), oxidative stress (OS), 
reduced antioxidants, and neuroinflammation are key factors influencing AD 
progression. Prior research has shown that AChE can interact with Aβ and 
increase its accumulation and neurotoxicity, so targeting AChEs and Aβ could be 
a potential therapeutic approach for AD treatment. It has been known that 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can inhibit Aβ accumulation. 
Previously, TKM01, a derivative of 4-anilinoquinazoline, has demonstrated 
inhibitory effects against GSK-3β-a regulator in AD progression. The current 
research included molecular docking studies of NSAIDs and TKM01 with Aβ and 
AChEs as targets. TKM01 exhibited a higher binding affinity with Aβ among all 
tested compounds. Molecular dynamic (MD) simulations confirmed the stability of 
the protein-TKM01 complexes. TKM01 also exhibited favorable drug-likeness 
properties, and no hepatoxicity was visualized in comparison with other 
compounds. Further, in vitro assay showed an inhibitory action of TKM01 
(50-1200 µg/mL) on AChEs. In the in vivo studies on zebrafish larvae brains, we 
found that TKM01 (120 and 240 µg/mL) reduced the levels of AChEs and lipid 
peroxidation (LPO) and increased antioxidant superoxide dismutase (SOD) and 
catalase (CAT) in AlCl3(80 µM)-induced AD-like model. Additionally, TKM01 
treatment was found to decrease pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-α, IL-1β, and 
IL-6. The current study demonstrates that TKM01 can be used to treat AD. 
Nonetheless, experimental validation is needed to reveal the cellular, 
sub-cellular, and molecular mechanisms and possible implications at a clinical 
stage.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.70048
PMID: 39552492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2025 Jul;101(1):136-155. doi: 10.1177/00914150241297555.
 Epub 2024 Nov 18.

Dementia Caregiving and Dialectical Tensions During the Early Days of the 
COVID-19 Pandemic.

Faw MH(1), Johnson KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Communication Studies, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, 
CO, USA.

Caregiving for a loved one with Alzheimer's disease or related dementia presents 
significant challenges which were amplified throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. 
During this time, care partners were forced to navigate uncertain terrain as 
well as new and challenging relational tensions. This study investigated the 
experiences of dementia care partners and the relational tensions present as 
they managed the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic using Relational Dialectics 
Theory framework. By analyzing recorded support groups from the early days of 
the pandemic (April through June, 2020), we identified two chief tensions 
expressed by participants throughout their support groups: 
connection-independence and gratitude-frustration. Participants experienced 
these tensions in different ways, and they engaged in four tension management 
strategies (selection, minimization, reframing, and venting and comradery) 
through the support group. As the pandemic progressed, participants' tension 
management evolved, highlighting the complexity inherent in caring for a person 
with dementia during the COVID-19 pandemic.

DOI: 10.1177/00914150241297555
PMID: 39552310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


23. Pak J Biol Sci. 2024 Oct;27(11):547-566. doi: 10.3923/pjbs.2024.547.566.

Comprehensive Analysis of the Gene Expression Profiles of Rat Brain Tissues 
under Environmental Exposure to Nicotine.

Liu W, Lv H, Zhou Y, Zuo X, Wang X.

&lt;b&gt;Background and Objective:&lt;/b&gt; Nicotine-relevant smoking causes 
many serious issues of environmental pollution and complicated harm to human 
health. The present study aimed to evaluate the experimental effects of exposure 
to nicotine on the gene expression profiles of rat brain tissues with 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs). &lt;b&gt;Materials and Methods:&lt;/b&gt; 
The rat gene expression profiles of environmental exposure to nicotine were 
initially screened and retrieved from the microarray dataset GSE59895 in the GEO 
database. Next, it was analyzed with an integrated bioinformatics pipeline. The 
DEGs were analyzed in Limma and functional enrichment analyses of GO terms and 
KEGG pathways were performed with clusterProfiler. The STRING online tools and 
Cytoscape StringApp were subsequently employed to construct the protein-protein 
interaction (PPI) network, whereas key modules and hub genes were finally 
explored and visualized. &lt;b&gt;Results:&lt;/b&gt; There was total of 382 
shared DEGs between different case groups in the experiment, whereas 9 common 
shared DEGs were found among all three groups. The significant enrichments of 28 
GO terms and 3 KEGG pathways were comprehensively analyzed with corresponding 
functionally enriched genes. Then, 3 key modules and 10 hub genes were further 
identified and explored in the resulted PPI network. In the disease-related 
signaling pathways, eleven potential neuropathic disease-related genes may 
complement the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. 
&lt;b&gt;Conclusion:&lt;/b&gt; The study found that chronic exposure to nicotine 
would result in the differential expression of the disease-related genes, 
whereas these DEGs might increase the environmental risks of Huntington's 
disease, Alzheimer's disease and other multiple neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3923/pjbs.2024.547.566
PMID: 39551957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Neuroinflammation. 2024 Nov 17;21(1):300. doi: 10.1186/s12974-024-03296-0.

Fueling neurodegeneration: metabolic insights into microglia functions.

Sadeghdoust M(#)(1), Das A(#)(1), Kaushik DK(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of BioMedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Health Sciences Centre, 
Memorial University of Newfoundland, 300 Prince Phillip Dr. St. John's, St. 
John's, NL, A1B 3V6, Canada.
(2)Division of BioMedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Health Sciences Centre, 
Memorial University of Newfoundland, 300 Prince Phillip Dr. St. John's, St. 
John's, NL, A1B 3V6, Canada. dkaushik@mun.ca.
(#)Contributed equally

Microglia, the resident immune cells of the central nervous system, emerge in 
the brain during early embryonic development and persist throughout life. They 
play essential roles in brain homeostasis, and their dysfunction contributes to 
neuroinflammation and the progression of neurodegenerative diseases. Recent 
studies have uncovered an intricate relationship between microglia functions and 
metabolic processes, offering fresh perspectives on disease mechanisms and 
possible treatments. Despite these advancements, there are still significant 
gaps in our understanding of how metabolic dysregulation affects microglial 
phenotypes in these disorders. This review aims to address these gaps, laying 
the groundwork for future research on the topic. We specifically examine how 
metabolic shifts in microglia, such as the transition from oxidative 
phosphorylation and mitochondrial metabolism to heightened glycolysis during 
proinflammatory states, impact the disease progression in Alzheimer's disease, 
multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and 
Huntington's disease. Additionally, we explore the role of iron, fatty and amino 
acid metabolism in microglial homeostasis and repair. Identifying both distinct 
and shared metabolic adaptations in microglia across neurodegenerative diseases 
could reveal common therapeutic targets and provide a deeper understanding of 
disease-specific mechanisms underlying multiple CNS disorders.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-024-03296-0
PMCID: PMC11571669
PMID: 39551788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethics approval and consent to 
participate Not applicable. Consent for publication Not applicable. Competing 
interests The authors declare no competing interests.


25. J Nanobiotechnology. 2024 Nov 17;22(1):718. doi: 10.1186/s12951-024-02897-4.

Exploring the anti-inflammatory effects of curcumin encapsulated within ferritin 
nanocages: a comprehensive in vivo and in vitro study in Alzheimer's disease.

Morasso C(1), Truffi M(1), Tinelli V(2), Stivaktakis P(3), Di Gerlando R(4)(5), 
Francesca D(5), Perini G(5), Faisal M(6), Aid J(6), Noridov B(6), Lee B(6), 
Barbieri L(2), Negri S(1), Nikitovic D(7), Thrapsanioti LN(7), Tsatsakis A(3), 
Cereda C(8)(9), Bonizzi A(1)(8), Mazzucchelli S(8), Prosperi D(2), Hickey 
MA(10), Corsi F(11)(12), Gagliardi S(5).

Author information:
(1)Istituti Clinici Scientifici Maugeri IRCCS, Pavia, 27100, Italy.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Bioscience, University of Milano-Bicocca, 
Piazza della Scienza 2, Milano, 20126, Italy.
(3)Department of Toxicology & Forensic Sciences, Faculty Medicine, University of 
Crete, Heraklion, Greece.
(4)Department of Biology and Biotechnology "L. Spallanzani" , University of 
Pavia, Pavia, Italy.
(5)IRCCS Mondino Foundation, Pavia, 27100, Italy.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, Institute of Biomedicine and Translational 
Medicine, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia.
(7)Department of Histology-Embryology, School of Medicine, University of Crete, 
Heraklion, 71003, Greece.
(8)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Università di Milano, Milan, 
20157, Italy.
(9)Center of Functional Genomics and Rare diseases, Department of Pediatrics, 
Buzzi Children's Hospital, Milan, 20154, Italy.
(10)Department of Pharmacology, Institute of Biomedicine and Translational 
Medicine, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia. miriam.ann.hickey@ut.ee.
(11)Istituti Clinici Scientifici Maugeri IRCCS, Pavia, 27100, Italy. 
fabio.corsi@icsmaugeri.it.
(12)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Università di Milano, Milan, 
20157, Italy. fabio.corsi@icsmaugeri.it.

BACKGROUND: The global demographic shift towards an aging population is 
generating a rise in neurodegenerative conditions, with Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
as the most prominent problem. In this landscape, the use of natural supplements 
has garnered attention for their potential in dementia prevention. Curcumin 
(Cur), derived from Curcuma longa, has demonstrated promising pharmacological 
effects against AD by reducing the levels of inflammatory mediators. However, 
its clinical efficacy is hindered by poor solubility and bioavailability. Our 
study introduces the use of H-Ferritin nanocages (HFn) as a nanoformulation 
vehicle for Cur, aiming to enhance its therapeutic potential for AD. In this 
work, we characterized a nanoformulation of Cur in HFn (HFn-CUR) by evaluating 
its safety, stability, and its transport across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in 
vitro. Moreover, we evaluated the efficacy of HFn-CUR by transcriptomic analysis 
of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from both AD patients and healthy 
controls (HC), and by using the well-established 5xFAD mouse model of AD.
RESULTS: Our data show that HFn-CUR exhibits improved water dispersibility, is 
non-toxic, and can traverse the BBB. Regarding its activity on PBMCs from AD 
patients, HFn-CUR enhances cellular responses to inflammation and reduces 
RAGE-mediated stress. Studies on an AD mouse model demonstrate that HFn-CUR 
exhibits mild beneficial effects on cognitive performance. Moreover, it 
effectively reduces microgliosis and astrogliosis and in vivo in mouse, 
suggesting potential neuroprotective benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that HFn-CUR is safe and effective in reducing 
inflammation in both in vitro and in vivo models of AD, supporting the need for 
further experiments to define its optimal use.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12951-024-02897-4
PMCID: PMC11571668
PMID: 39551771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethics approval and consent to 
participate All procedures performed in studies involving human participants 
were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or 
national research committee and with the Helsinki declaration and its later 
amendments or comparable ethical standards. The study design was examined by the 
IRBs of the enrolling institutions. The study protocol to obtain blood from 
patients was approved by the Ethical Committee of the IRCCS Mondino Foundation 
(Pavia, Italy) (Code: 20170001758). Informed consent was obtained from all 
subjects involved in the study. Consent for publication Not applicable. 
Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests.


26. Cell Mol Biol Lett. 2024 Nov 17;29(1):143. doi: 10.1186/s11658-024-00657-8.

Different amyloid β42 preparations induce different cell death pathways in the 
model of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells.

Özdemir AY(1), Hofbauerová K(2), Kopecký V Jr(2), Novotný J(1), Rudajev V(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Sciences, Charles University, Viničná 7, 
12844, Prague 2, Czech Republic.
(2)Institute of Physics, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Charles University, 
Ke Karlovu 5, 12116, Prague 2, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Sciences, Charles University, Viničná 7, 
12844, Prague 2, Czech Republic. rudajev@natur.cuni.cz.

Amyloid β42 (Aβ42) plays a decisive role in the pathology of Alzheimer's 
disease. The Aβ42 peptide can aggregate into various supramolecular structures, 
with oligomers being the most toxic form. However, different Aβ species that 
cause different effects have been described. Many cell death pathways can be 
activated in connection with Aβ action, including apoptosis, necroptosis, 
pyroptosis, oxidative stress, ferroptosis, alterations in mitophagy, autophagy, 
and endo/lysosomal functions. In this study, we used a model of differentiated 
SH-SY5Y cells and applied two different Aβ42 preparations for 2 and 4 days. 
Although we found no difference in the shape and size of Aβ species prepared by 
two different methods (NaOH or NH4OH for Aβ solubilization), we observed strong 
differences in their effects. Treatment of cells with NaOH-Aβ42 mainly resulted 
in damage of mitochondrial function and increased production of reactive oxygen 
species, whereas application of NH4OH-Aβ42 induced necroptosis and first steps 
of apoptosis, but also caused an increase in protective Hsp27. Moreover, the two 
Aβ42 preparations differed in the mechanism of interaction with the cells, with 
the effect of NaOH-Aβ42 being dependent on monosialotetrahexosylganglioside 
(GM1) content, whereas the effect of NH4OH-Aβ42 was independent of GM1. This 
suggests that, although both preparations were similar in size, minor 
differences in secondary/tertiary structure are likely to strongly influence the 
resulting processes. Our work reveals, at least in part, one of the possible 
causes of the inconsistency in the data observed in different studies on 
Aβ-toxicity pathways.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s11658-024-00657-8
PMCID: PMC11572474
PMID: 39551742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethics approval and consent to 
participate Not applicable. Consent for publication Not applicable. Competing 
interests The authors declare that they have no competing interests.


27. J Nutr Biochem. 2025 Feb;136:109803. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2024.109803. Epub
 2024 Nov 17.

Sulforaphane suppresses Aβ accumulation and tau hyperphosphorylation in vascular 
cognitive impairment(VCI).

Li C(1), Zhang L(2), Li X(3), Hu Q(4), Mao L(2), Shao Y(2), Han M(2), Zhang 
S(2), Ejaz I(2), Mesbah L(2), Tang Q(5), Shang F(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Medical Information Engineering, Shandong First Medical University 
& Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Taian, Shandong, China.
(2)School of Basic Medical Sciences & Clinical Medicine, Second Affiliated 
Hospital, Shandong First Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Taian, Shandong, China.
(3)School of Basic Medical Sciences & Clinical Medicine, Second Affiliated 
Hospital, Shandong First Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Taian, Shandong, China; Department of Neurology, Liaocheng No.4 
People's Hospital, Liaocheng, Shandong, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, The Affiliated Taian City Central Hospital of 
Qingdao University, Taian, Shandong, China.
(5)School of Basic Medical Sciences & Clinical Medicine, Second Affiliated 
Hospital, Shandong First Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Taian, Shandong, China. Electronic address: tangqin870815@163.com.
(6)School of Basic Medical Sciences & Clinical Medicine, Second Affiliated 
Hospital, Shandong First Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Taian, Shandong, China; Department of Physiology and Neurobiology, 
School of Basic Medical Sciences & Clinical Medicine, Shandong First Medical 
University & Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, Shandong, China. 
Electronic address: shffei163@163.com.

Sulforaphane (Sfn) is a compound naturally found in cruciferous vegetables such 
as broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, and kale. It is well-known for its 
antioxidative and anti-inflammatory effects. Sfn has attracted attention for its 
potential health benefits, particularly its role in brain health and the 
potential prevention of dementia and neurodegeneration. Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
and vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) are the top two causes of dementia. 
Cerebral vascular lesions give rise to VCI and predispose neurons to 
degeneration and Alzheimer's disease (AD) by Aβ accumulation and tau 
hyperphosphorylation. In a rat model of VCI by permanent bilateral common 
carotid artery occlusion (2VO), we tested the protective effect of the phase II 
enzyme inducer sulforaphane (Sfn). Sfn ameliorates vascular cognitive deficits 
by reducing the typical white matter injury and neural atrophy pathological 
changes in VCI. Moreover, for the first time, we demonstrated that it 
effectively reduced Aβ and toxic p-tau accumulation in VCI. The protective 
mechanisms of Sfn involve the induction of HO-1 expression, activation of the 
Akt/GSK3β pathway, and modulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) expression 
levels. Our data suggest that Sfn is a promising therapeutic compound to treat 
VCI and AD. It inhibits short-term neuron and white matter injuries as well as 
long-term Aβ and p-tau accumulation caused by cerebral vascular lesions.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2024.109803
PMID: 39551165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The author(s) 
declare no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


28. Lancet. 2024 Nov 30;404(10468):2161-2162. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(24)02510-8.
 Epub 2024 Nov 14.

Amyloid-lowering treatment in Alzheimer's disease.

Jessen F(1), Frölich L(2), Hort J(3), Winblad B(4), Fortea J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Medical Faculty, University of Cologne, Cologne 
50937, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Disorders, Bonn-Cologne, 
Germany. Electronic address: frank.jessen@uk-koeln.de.
(2)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, Central Institute of Mental Health, 
Medical Faculty Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, Second Faculty of Medicine, Charles University and 
Motol University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(4)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of NVS, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, 
Sweden.
(5)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i 
Sant Pau, Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica Sant Pau, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Center of Biomedical 
Investigation Network for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Madrid, Spain; Barcelona 
Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana de Síndrome de Down, Barcelona, Spain.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(24)02510-8
PMID: 39551061


29. Redox Biol. 2024 Dec;78:103428. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2024.103428. Epub 2024
Nov  14.

Aβ(1-42) promotes microglial activation and apoptosis in the progression of AD 
by binding to TLR4.

Dou RX(1), Zhang YM(2), Hu XJ(2), Gao FL(2), Zhang LL(3), Liang YH(3), Zhang 
YY(3), Yao YP(2), Yin L(4), Zhang Y(2), Gu C(5).

Author information:
(1)The First Clinical Medical College, Gansu University of Chinese Medicine, 
Lanzhou, 730000, Gansu, China; Department of Neurology, Gansu Provincial 
People's Hospital, Lanzhou, 730000, Gansu, China. Electronic address: 
1843558391@qq.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, Gansu Provincial People's Hospital, Lanzhou, 730000, 
Gansu, China.
(3)The First Clinical Medical College, Gansu University of Chinese Medicine, 
Lanzhou, 730000, Gansu, China; Department of Neurology, Gansu Provincial 
People's Hospital, Lanzhou, 730000, Gansu, China.
(4)Western Medical District of Chinese PLA General Hospital, Haidian District, 
100097, Beijing, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Gansu Provincial People's Hospital, Lanzhou, 730000, 
Gansu, China. Electronic address: gucheng408@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common age-related neurodegenerative 
diseases and the most devastating form of senile dementia. It has a complex 
mechanism and no effective treatment. Exploring the pathogenesis of AD and 
providing ideas for treatment can effectively improve the prognosis of AD. 
Microglia were incubated with β-amyloid protein 1-42 (Aβ1-42) to construct an AD 
cell model. After microglia were activated, cell morphology changed, the 
expression level of inflammatory factors increased, cell apoptosis was promoted, 
and the expression of microtubule-associated protein (Tau protein) and related 
proteins increased. By up-regulating and down-regulating Toll-like receptor 4 
(TLR4), the cells were divided into TLR4 knockdown negative control group(Lv-NC 
group), TLR4 knockdown group(Lv-TLR4 group), TLR4 overexpression negative 
control group(Sh-NC group), and TLR4 overexpression group(Sh-TLR4 group). The 
expression of inflammatory factors was detected again. It was found that 
compared with the Lv-NC group, the expression of various inflammatory factors in 
the Lv-TLR4 group decreased, cell apoptosis was inhibited, and the expression of 
Tau protein and related proteins decreased. Compared with the Sh-NC group, the 
expression of inflammatory factors in the Sh-TLR4 group increased, cell 
apoptosis was promoted, and the expression of Tau protein and related proteins 
increased. These results indicate that Aβ1-42 may promote microglial activation 
and apoptosis by binding to TLR4. Reducing the expression of TLR4 can reduce the 
occurrence of inflammatory response in AD cells and slow down cell apoptosis. 
Therefore, TLR4 is expected to become a new target for the prevention and 
treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2024.103428
PMCID: PMC11615585
PMID: 39550828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


30. Physiother Theory Pract. 2025 Jul;41(7):1447-1457. doi: 
10.1080/09593985.2024.2426181. Epub 2024 Nov 16.

What is effective physiotherapy for dementia and how do we get there: a 
qualitative study.

Quick SM(1)(2)(3), Lawler K(4)(5), Shannon MM(6), Soh SE(7), McGinley JL(8), 
Snowdon DA(1)(2)(5)(6), Callisaya ML(1)(2)(6)(9).

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Clinical School, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)National Centre for Healthy Ageing, Monash University and Peninsula Health, 
Frankston, Australia.
(3)Department of Allied Health Education and Research, Northern Health, Epping, 
Australia.
(4)Wicking Dementia Research and Education Centre, College of Health and 
Medicine, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Australia.
(5)School of Allied Health, Human Services and Sport, La Trobe University, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(6)Academic Unit, Peninsula Health, Melbourne, Australia.
(7)School of Primary and Allied Health Care and School of Public Health and 
Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(8)Department of Physiotherapy, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(9)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania, Hobart, 
Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Dementia is a leading cause of disability. Physiotherapists play a 
crucial role in caring for people with dementia. However, previous research has 
found that physiotherapists have low knowledge and confidence working with 
people with dementia.
OBJECTIVE: To determine: 1) What are the components of effective physiotherapy 
care for people with dementia; and 2) What can be done to facilitate the 
provision of effective physiotherapy care.
METHODS: This was a qualitative study using an interpretive description 
approach. Sixteen physiotherapists experienced in dementia care participated in 
semi-structured interviews. Researchers analyzed data using thematic analysis.
RESULTS: Two themes were created for each research objective. The themes 
explaining the components of effective physiotherapy care were: 1) engaging the 
person with dementia (subthemes: knowing the person with dementia; using 
knowledge to adapt the approach to successfully deliver physiotherapy 
treatments; optimizing the physical environment) and 2) collaborative care 
(subthemes: working with care partners; working as an interdisciplinary team). 
The themes describing how to facilitate provision of effective care were: 1) 
Physiotherapists require "greater opportunity for mentoring and education on 
dementia care" and 2) Physiotherapists must "advocate for the role of 
physiotherapy in dementia care."
CONCLUSION: These findings provide important information regarding the 
components of effective dementia care for physiotherapists and will help guide 
clinical practice, inform future dementia education, research, and professional 
organization advocacy initiatives.

DOI: 10.1080/09593985.2024.2426181
PMID: 39550616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2024 Nov 16;16(1):249. doi: 10.1186/s13195-024-01616-3.

Changes in choroidal thickness quantified by Optical Coherence Tomography across 
cognitive impairment: data from the NORFACE cohort.

Castilla-Martí L(1)(2), García-Sánchez A(3), Martínez J(3), Rosende-Roca M(3), 
Vargas L(3), Tartari JP(3), Casales F(3), Rodríguez JN(3), Bein N(3), Alegret 
M(3)(4), Ortega G(3)(4), Espinosa A(3)(4), Sanabria Á(3)(4), Pérez-Cordón A(3), 
Muñoz N(3), García-Gutiérrez F(3), Blazquez-Folch J(3), Miguel A(3), de Rojas 
I(3)(4), García-González P(3)(4), Puerta R(3), Olivé C(3), Capdevila M(3), 
Muñoz-Morales Á(3), Bayón-Buján P(3), Cano A(3)(4), Fernández V(3)(4), Valero 
S(3)(4), Tárraga L(3)(4), Ruiz A(3)(4)(5), Boada M(3)(4), Castilla-Martí 
M(6)(7), Marquié M(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)PhD programme in Surgery and Morphological Sciences, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Hôpital Ophtalmique Jules-Gonin, Fondation Asiles Des Aveugles, University of 
Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya (UIC), 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)CIBERNED, Center for Networked Biomedical Research On Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, National Institute of Health Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(6)Clínica Oftalmológica Dr. Castilla, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Vista Alpina Eye Clinic, Visp, Switzerland.
(8)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya (UIC), 
Barcelona, Spain. mmarquie@fundacioace.org.
(9)CIBERNED, Center for Networked Biomedical Research On Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, National Institute of Health Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. 
mmarquie@fundacioace.org.

BACKGROUND: Optical coherence tomography (OCT) enables high-resolution imaging 
of ocular structures in health and disease. Choroid thickness (CT) is a key 
vascular retinal parameter that can be assessed by OCT and might be relevant in 
the evaluation of the vascular component of cognitive decline. We aimed to 
investigate CT changes in a large cohort of individuals cognitive unimpaired 
(CU), with mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer's (MCI-AD), mild cognitive 
impairment due to cerebrovascular disease (MCI-Va), Alzheimer's disease dementia 
(ADD), and vascular dementia (VaD).
METHODS: Clinical, demographical, ophthalmological and OCT data from the 
Neuro-ophthalmological Research at Fundació ACE (NORFACE) project were analyzed. 
CT was assessed in the macula across nine Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy 
Study (ETDRS) quadrants, average thickness, total volume, and subfoveal 
choroidal thickness. Differences of CT among the five diagnostic groups were 
assessed in a multivariate regression model, adjusting for demographic and 
cardiovascular risk factors and OCT image quality. A comparison between manual 
and automatic CT measurements in a subset of participants was also performed.
RESULTS: The study cohort comprised 1,280 participants: 301 CU, 196 MCI-AD, 112 
MCI-Va, 578 ADD, and 93 VaD. CT was significantly increased in individuals with 
cognitive impairment compared to those CU, particularly in the VaD and MCI-Va 
groups and in the peripheral ETDRS regions. No significant differences were 
found in inner superior, center and subfoveal choroidal thickness. The 
interaction of sex and diagnosis had no effect in differentiating CT. 
Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores were not correlated to CT. Manual 
and automated CT measurements showed good reliability.
DISCUSSION: Our findings indicated that peripheral choroidal thickening, 
especially in patients with cerebrovascular disease, may serve as a potential 
choroidal biomarker for cognitive decline and suggest different pathogenic 
pathways in AD and VaD. Further research is required to explore CT as a reliable 
ocular biomarker for cognitive impairment.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-024-01616-3
PMCID: PMC11568571
PMID: 39550564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethics approval and consent to 
participate This study and its informed consent were approved by the Ethics 
Committee of the Hospital Clínic i Provincial de Barcelona in accordance with 
Spanish biomedical laws (Law 14/2007, of July 3, on biomedical research; Royal 
Decree 1716/2011, of November 18) and followed the recommendations of the 
declaration of Helsinki. All participants signed an informed consent form (in 
the case of individuals with moderate stages of dementia, informed consent was 
signed by their legal representative or family member). Consent for publication 
Not applicable. Competing interests MB has consulted for Araclon, Avid, Grifols, 
Lilly, Nutricia, Roche, Eisai and Servier. She received fees from lectures and 
funds for research from Araclon, Biogen, Grifols, Nutricia, Roche and Servier. 
She reports grants/research funding from Abbvie, Araclon, Biogen Research 
Limited, Bioiberica, Grifols, Lilly, S.A, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Kyowa Hakko 
Kirin, Laboratorios Servier, Nutricia SRL, Oryzon Genomics, Piramal Imaging 
Limited, Roche Pharma SA, and Schwabe Farma Iberica SLU, all outside the 
submitted work. She has not received personal compensations from these 
organizations. AR is member of scientific advisory board of Landsteiner Genmed 
and Grifols SA. AR has stocks of Landsteiner Genmed. MM has consulted for F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. The rest of authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


32. BMC Geriatr. 2024 Nov 16;24(1):954. doi: 10.1186/s12877-024-05550-9.

Effect of an 18-month meditation training on cardiovascular risk in older 
adults: a secondary analysis of the Age-Well randomized controlled trial.

Garnier-Crussard A(1)(2), Gonneaud J(2), Felisatti F(2), Palix C(2), Ferrand 
Devouge E(2)(3), Chocat A(2), Rauchs G(2), de la Sayette V(4), Vivien D(2)(5), 
Demnitz-King H(6), Lutz A(7), Chételat G(2), Poisnel G(8); Medit-Ageing Research 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Clinical and Research Memory Center of Lyon, Lyon Institute For Aging, Lyon 1 
University, Hospices Civils de Lyon, France.
(2)Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, INSERM, U1237, PhIND "Physiopathology and Imaging of 
Neurological Disorders", NeuroPresage Team, Institut Blood and Brain 
Caen-Normandie, Cyceron, Caen, 14000, France.
(3)Department of General Practice, Normandie Univ, UNIROUEN, Rouen, France.
(4)Department of Neurology, CHU de Caen, Caen, France.
(5)Department of Clinical Research, CHU de Caen, Caen, France.
(6)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
(7)Eduwell Team, Lyon Neuroscience Research Center (CRNL), INSERM U1028, CNRS 
UMR5292, UCBL1, Lyon, France.
(8)Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, INSERM, U1237, PhIND "Physiopathology and Imaging of 
Neurological Disorders", NeuroPresage Team, Institut Blood and Brain 
Caen-Normandie, Cyceron, Caen, 14000, France. poisnel@cyceron.fr.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular risk factors represent an important health issue in 
older adults. Previous findings suggest that meditation training could have a 
positive impact on these risk factors. The objective of this study was to 
investigate the effects of an 18-month meditation-based intervention on 
cardiovascular health.
METHODS: Age-Well was a randomized, controlled superiority trial with blinded 
end point assessment, including community-dwelling cognitively unimpaired adults 
65 years and older enrolled between November 24, 2016, and March 5, 2018, in 
France. One hundred and thirty-four participants were included in this secondary 
analysis. Participants were randomly affected to an intervention group that 
received an 18-month meditation-based program or to comparison groups (active 
control group i.e. non-native language training or passive control group i.e. no 
intervention). The main outcome was change in the Framingham Risk Score (FRS); 
other outcomes were changes in cardiovascular and metabolic risk factors.
RESULTS: There was no difference in FRS change after 18 months between trial 
arms (p = .38). When assessing individual cardiovascular or metabolic risk 
factors, meditation training was associated with a greater reduction in 
diastolic blood pressure than the comparison group in participants with 
intermediate to high cardiovascular risk (FRS > 10%) at baseline (p = .03).
CONCLUSION: An 18-month meditation training was not effective to increase 
overall cardiovascular health in older adults, but improved diastolic blood 
pressure in a subgroup analysis including at-risk participants. These results 
suggest a potential benefit of a long-term meditation intervention in older 
adults at-risk of cardiovascular diseases, and highlights the need for future 
research in more targeted populations.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02977819.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-024-05550-9
PMCID: PMC11568626
PMID: 39550530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethics approval and consent to 
participate The Age-Well RCT was approved by the ethics committee (Comité de 
Protection des Personnes CPP Nord-Ouest III, Caen; trial registration numbers: 
EudraCT: 2016–002441-36; IDRCB: 2016-A01767-44; ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: 
NCT02977819). All participants gave their written informed consent to the study 
prior to enrollment. Consent for publication Not applicable. Competing interests 
Independent of this work, AGC is an unpaid sub-investigator or principal 
investigator in Alzheimer’s disease clinical trials: NCT04867616 (UCB Pharma), 
NCT04241068 (Biogen), NCT05310071 (Envision), NCT03446001 (TauRx Therapeutics), 
NCT03444870 (Roche), NCT04374253 (Roche), NCT04777396 (Novo Nordisk), 
NCT04777409 (Novo Nordisk), NCT04770220 (Alzheon), NCT05423522 (Medesis 
Pharma).GC reported grants, personal fees and non-financial support from 
Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (Inserm), grants from 
European Union’s Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation program under grant 
agreement No 667696 (PI), grants from Fondation d’entreprise MMA des 
Entrepreneurs du Futur, during the conduct of the study; personal fees from 
Fondation Entrepreneurs MMA, grants and personal fees from Fondation Alzheimer, 
grants from Région Normandie, grants from Fondation Recherche Alzheimer, grants 
from Association France Alzheimer, outside the submitted work.GP has received 
research support from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation 
program under grant agreement No 667696, from the Institut National de la Santé 
et de la Recherche Médicale (Inserm) and from Région Normandie.GP, GC 
participated to the DSMB of the Age-Well trial and to the ExCom of 
Medit-Ageing.No other disclosures were reported.


33. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 16;14(1):28320. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-79792-3.

A comparison of cognitive decline in aged mice and mice treated with aftin-4.

Žnidaršič N(1), Grgurevič N(1), Svete AN(2), Meden A(3), Snoj T(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preclinical Sciences, Veterinary Faculty, University of 
Ljubljana, Gerbičeva 60, Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia.
(2)Small Animal Clinic, Veterinary Faculty, University of Ljubljana, Gerbičeva 
60, Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Ljubljana, Aškerčeva 7, Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia.
(4)Institute of Preclinical Sciences, Veterinary Faculty, University of 
Ljubljana, Gerbičeva 60, Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia. tomaz.snoj@vf.uni-lj.si.

Dementia, especially Alzheimer's disease, presents a major clinical challenge, 
and researchers are still searching for an optimal animal model. To address this 
gap, we compared male and ovariectomized female C57BL/6 mice treated with 
30 mg/kg aftin-4, which induces neurodegeneration, with naturally aged (15-16 
months old) mice not treated with aftin-4. We performed a series of behavioral 
tests; measured postmortem plasma β-amyloid levels (Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42) and the 
levels of the oxidative stress indicators glutathione peroxidase (GPx), 
superoxide dismutase (SOD) and malondialdehyde (MDA); and evaluated astrocytic 
reactivity in the brain using glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) levels. Our 
results revealed no behavioral changes in the aged or aftin-4-treated mice 
compared with the control mice. Aftin-4 mice presented lower brain MDA levels 
and no detectable changes in plasma Aβ levels. In general, female mice had 
higher GPx and SOD levels and lower Aβ1-42 levels than male mice did. In 
contrast, aged and aftin-4-treated male mice presented elevated levels of GFAP, 
indicating astrocyte damage. Our results could not confirm that either 
aftin-4-treated or aged mice are reliable models for dementia. However, the 
observed molecular changes suggest that male animals may be more susceptible to 
oxidative stress and brain damage than females are. This study demonstrates the 
complexity of modeling dementia in animals and the importance of future studies 
in this area.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-79792-3
PMCID: PMC11569203
PMID: 39550500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Competing interests The authors 
declare no competing interests.


34. Neuroscience. 2025 Jan 26;565:29-39. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.11.029.
 Epub 2024 Nov 15.

Comparison of the efficacy of updated drugs for the treatment on the improvement 
of cognitive function in patients with Alzheimer 's disease: A systematic review 
and network meta- analysis.

Cao W(1), Zhu B(2), Liu Z(3), Jia X(4), Zhao H(5), Gu N(6), Chang H(7), Xi J(8), 
Li R(9), Guo K(10), Shen J(11), Ding L(12), Sun F(13), Di Z(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: 13720527904@163.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: 18691655887@163.com.
(3)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: docterqing@163.com.
(4)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: 227xiaotao@163.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: 863802258@qq.com.
(6)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: gunaibing@126.com.
(7)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: changhy258@163.com.
(8)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: 630890924@qq.com.
(9)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: 15529957876@163.com.
(10)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: 18829795908@163.com.
(11)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: 15591211179@163.com.
(12)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: 644338437@qq.com.
(13)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China.
(14)Department of Neurology, Xi 'an Central Hospital Affiliated to Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University, No.161 Xiwu Road, Xincheng District, Xi 'an City, Shaanxi 
Province, PR China. Electronic address: dizhengli@163.com.

BACKGROUND: The recent emergence of updated drugs for the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) has produced encouraging cognitive and clinical results 
in clinical trials, but there is still controversy over how to choose effective 
treatment options among these numerous drugs. The purpose of this network 
meta-analysis (NMA) is to compare and rank these drugs based on their efficacy.
METHODS: We systematically searched in PubMed, Web of Science databases and 
Cochrane LIbrary, gov for randomized controlled trials for data from 2020 to 
2024, and then performed a random-effect network meta-analysis.
RESULTS: Our NMA results showed that in several main indicators ADAS-cog, CDR-SB 
and ADCS-ADL. GV-971 (MD -2.36, 95 % CI -5.08, 0.35), Lecanemab (MD -2.00, 95 % 
CI -5.25, 1.26), Donanemab (MD -1.45, 95 % CI -4.70, 1.81), Masupirdine (MD 
-0.83, 95 % CI -3.49, 1.84) were more effective than placebo in improving 
ADAS-cog. In terms of CDR-SB, Lecanemab (MD -3.11,95 % CI -5.23, -0.99) was more 
effective. Compared with placebo, Donanemab was more effective in ADCS-ADL (MD 
3.26,95 % CI 1.48,5.05). SUCRA values showed that GV-971 (76.1 % and 68.7 %) 
could achieve better therapeutic effects in ADAS-cog) and NPI, and Lecanema 
(98.1 %) was more effective in improving CDR-SB scores than other drugs. 
Donanemab (99.8 %) may be the most promising way to slow down the decline in 
ADCS-ADL scores. The effect of Masupirdine (80.7 %) on MMSE was significantly 
better than that of several other drugs.
CONCLUSION: Donanemab and Lecanemab showed good efficacy in ADCS-ADL and CDR-SB, 
respectively. GV-971 is the best choice to improve ADAS cogs and NPI.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.11.029
PMID: 39550061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


35. Exp Neurol. 2025 Feb;384:115058. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115058. Epub
2024  Nov 14.

A novel phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor, RF26, improves memory impairment and 
ameliorates tau aggregation and neuroinflammation in the P301S tauopathy mouse 
model of Alzheimer's disease.

El-Desouky S(1), Abdel-Halim M(2), Fathalla RK(2), Abadi AH(2), Piazza GA(3), 
Salama M(4), El-Khodery SA(5), Youssef MA(5), Elfarrash S(6).

Author information:
(1)Medical experimental research center (MERC), Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura 
University, 35116 Mansoura, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy and 
Biotechnology, German University in Cairo, Cairo 11835, Egypt.
(3)Department of Drug discovery and development, Harrison Collage of Pharmacy, 
Auburn University, Auburn, AL 36832, USA.
(4)Institute of Global health and Human ecology, American University in Cairo, 
Egypt; Department of Forensic Medicine and Clinical Toxicology, Faculty of 
Medicine, Mansoura University, 35116 Mansoura, Egypt.
(5)Department of internal medicine, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Mansoura 
University, 35116 Mansoura, Egypt.
(6)Medical experimental research center (MERC), Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura 
University, 35116 Mansoura, Egypt; Department of Medical Physiology, Faculty of 
Medicine, Mansoura University, 35116 Mansoura, Egypt. Electronic address: 
saraelfarrash@mans.edu.eg.

Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitors are primarily used in the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction and pulmonary hypertension, but have also been reported to 
have a potential therapeutic effect for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). This is likely to be through stimulation of nitric oxide (NO)/cyclic 
guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) signaling by elevating cGMP, a secondary 
messenger involved in processes of neuroplasticity. In the present study, we 
evaluated the efficacy of a novel PDE5 inhibitor, RF26, using P301S tauopathy 
mice model. A body of experimental evidence suggests that the development of tau 
inclusions leads to the neurodegeneration observed in tauopathies, including AD, 
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD), Supranuclear palsy and others. RF26 successfully 
targeted NO/cGMP signaling pathway and showed a significant improvement of 
spatial memory task performance of P301S mice using Morris Water Maze and 
T-maze. Furthermore, RF26 -treated mice showed a significant reduction of 
phosphorylated tau load, gliosis and downregulated pro-inflammatory cytokines. 
The presented data support the efficacy of RF26 as a potent PDE5 inhibitor and 
calls for further investigation as a potential therapeutic drug for Alzheimer's 
and other tauopathy related neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115058
PMID: 39549949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper


36. Behav Brain Res. 2025 Feb 28;479:115340. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2024.115340. Epub
 2024 Nov 14.

Modulation of tyrosine receptor imposed by estrogen in memory and cognition in 
female rats.

Bajwa IK(1), Sharma P(1), Goyal R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shoolini 
University, Himachal Pradesh 173212, India.
(2)Department of Neuropharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shoolini 
University, Himachal Pradesh 173212, India. Electronic address: 
rohitgoyal@shooliniuniversity.com.

The present study aimed to investigate the potential role of estrogen in 
modulating the pathogenesis of dementia-type-AD phenotype, possibly by tyrosine 
kinase. Female Wistar rats were ovariectomized (OVX) and were treated with 
Diethylstilbesterol (DES), an estrogen analogue (20 μg/kg/day, i.m.), and 
Imatinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (30 mg/kg/day, orally), for two months. 
Animals underwent surgical ovariectomy exhibited significant memory deficits in 
spatial memory assessment as mean dwell time, short-term memory as spontaneous 
alteration, and novel object recognition after a chronic period of 4 weeks. OVX 
animals administered with DES produced significant restoration of memory 
dysfunction in comparison to OVX, as exhibited by Morris water maze (p=0.0003), 
Y maze (p<0.0001), and NORT. Imatinib prior to DES treatment in OVX animals 
showed significant decline in memory functions, which confirms the potential 
involvement of tyrosine receptor kinase activity in improved memory functions 
offered by estrogen. Levels of estradiol were significantly (p<0.0001) lower in 
the OVX group compared to normal which was significantly (p<0.0001) restored in 
the OVX+E group. Biochemical estimations of TBARS, glutathione, and 
acetylcholinesterase levels in the brain showed a significant increase in 
oxidative stress among the OVX group. However, a significant restoration of 
oxidative changes with TBARS (p=0.0496), glutathione (p<0.0001), and 
acetylcholinesterase activity (p=0.0201) of OVX animals receiving DES was 
observed in comparison to animals receiving imatinib followed by DES. These 
implications in the brain signify that estrogen and tyrosine kinase play an 
important role in the pathogenesis of dementia. In conclusion, estrogen offers 
neurochemical mediation for cognition and memory possibly via modulation of 
tyrosine kinase signaling in female subjects.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2024.115340
PMID: 39549875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declared no 
conflict of interest, financial or otherwise.


37. Lancet. 2024 Nov 30;404(10468):2198-2208. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(24)01883-X.
 Epub 2024 Nov 14.

Passive anti-amyloid β immunotherapy in Alzheimer's disease-opportunities and 
challenges.

Heneka MT(1), Morgan D(2), Jessen F(3).

Author information:
(1)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, Belval, 
Luxembourg; Departmnet of Medicine, UMass Chan Medical School, Worcester, MA, 
USA. Electronic address: michael.heneka@uni.lu.
(2)Department of Translational Neuroscience, College of Human Medicine, Michigan 
State University, Grand Rapids, MI, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Medical Faculty, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Bonn, 
Cologne, Germany; Excellence cluster on cellular stress response in aging 
associated disease, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

With the advent of the first disease-modifying, anti-amyloid β-directed passive 
immunotherapy for Alzheimer's disease, questions arise who, when, and how to 
treat. This paper describes shortly the pathogenic basis of and preclinical 
data, which have, more than two decades ago, initiated the development of this 
vaccination therapy. We discuss clinical trial results of aducanumab, lecanemab, 
and donanemab. We also review appropriate use recommendations of these novel 
treatments on patient selection and safety monitoring. Furthermore, estimations 
of numbers of patient who will qualify for treatment regarding inclusion and 
exclusion criteria and estimations on readiness of health-care systems for 
identifying the right patients and for providing the treatment are reported. In 
our view, we are experiencing a fundamental shift from syndrome-based 
Alzheimer's dementia care to early, biomarker-guided treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease. This shift requires substantial adjustments of infrastructure and 
resources, but also holds promise of eventually achieving substantial slowing of 
disease progression and delaying dementia.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and 
data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(24)01883-X
PMID: 39549715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests MTH reports consulting 
fees from Merck related to innate immunity and speaker fees from NovoNordisk, AC 
Immune, Biogen both outside the submitted work. DM reports personal fees from 
MindImmune, personal fees from SynapsDx, grants from Hesperos, non-financial 
support from Anavex, and grants and non-financial support from Bright Minds, all 
outside the submitted work. FJ receives consulting fees from Biogen, Cogthera, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, Grifols, Janssen, Novo Nordisk, and Roche; and is Chair of the 
European Alzheimer's Disease Consortium, Member of the executive Board of the 
German Memory Clinic Network, and the German Psychiatric Association.


38. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2025 Feb;129:105684. doi:
10.1016/j.archger.2024.105684.  Epub 2024 Nov 12.

The molecular mechanisms of steroid hormone effects on cognitive function.

Nguyen HD(1), Vu GH(2), Kim WK(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of microbiology, Tulane National Primate Research Center, Tulane 
University, Covington, Louisiana, USA. Electronic address: dnguyen14@tulane.edu.
(2)Department of Public Health, Hong Bang Health Center, Hai Phong, Vietnam.
(3)Division of microbiology, Tulane National Primate Research Center, Tulane 
University, Covington, Louisiana, USA; Department of Microbiology and 
Immunology, Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, Louisiana, USA. 
Electronic address: wkim6@tulane.edu.

OBJECTIVE: There is a lack of information on the molecular mechanisms by which 
steroid hormones (testosterone, estrogen, and progesterone) regulate cognitive 
impairment. Thus, we aimed to identify the protective effects of steroid 
hormones on cognitive function.
METHODS: We analyzed the literature on the molecular mechanisms, biological 
activities, physicochemical properties, and pharmacokinetics of steroid 
hormones.
RESULTS: Steroid hormones can protect against cognitive impairment by regulating 
key genes (INS, TNF, STAT3, ESR1). Specific microRNAs, namely hsa-miR-335-5p, 
hsa-miR-16-5p, and hsa-miR-26b-5p, along with transcription factors NFKB1, 
PPARG, NR3C1, GATA2, EGR1, ATF3, and CEBPA, play a significant role in this 
protective mechanism. The involvement in cognitive processes, regulation of 
phosphorylation, neuronal apoptosis, and signaling pathways related to 
Alzheimer's disease significantly influence the protein-protein interaction 
network underlying these effects. Additionally, steroid hormones exhibit 
anti-hypercholesterolemic properties, anti-inflammatory activity, antitoxic 
properties, and function as inhibitors of acetylcholine neuromuscular 
transmission. They also hold promise as therapeutic agents for the treatment of 
dementia. Promising therapeutic interventions for cognitive impairment include 
the use of miRNA sponges targeting hsa-miR-16-5p, along with the administration 
of capsaicin, minocycline, dopamine, sertraline, and minaprine. The gut 
microbiota species Lactobacillus amylovorus, Paraprevotella clara, Libanicoccus 
massiliensis, Prevotella oris, Turicibacter sanguinis, and Dubosiella 
newyorkensis were identified as significant contributors to cognitive impairment 
and altered levels of steroid hormones.
CONCLUSION: Steroid hormones are promising compounds for improving cognitive 
function. Further research is needed to validate these findings through focused 
investigations into apoptosis, regulation of neuronal cell death, miRNA sponges, 
interactions with gut microbiota, and the potential efficacy of pharmaceutical 
agents.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2024.105684
PMID: 39549628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


39. J Mol Neurosci. 2024 Nov 16;74(4):110. doi: 10.1007/s12031-024-02287-3.

Valproate Administration to Adult 5xFAD Mice Upregulates Expression of 
Neprilysin and Improves Olfaction and Memory.

Vasilev DS(1), Dubrovskaya NM(2), Tumanova NL(2), Tursunov AN(2), Nalivaeva 
NN(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Evolutionary Physiology and Biochemistry RAS, 44 Thorez Avenue, 
Saint Petersburg, 194223, Russia. dvasilyev@bk.ru.
(2)Institute of Evolutionary Physiology and Biochemistry RAS, 44 Thorez Avenue, 
Saint Petersburg, 194223, Russia.
(3)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of 
Leeds, Leeds, LS2 9JT, UK. n.n.nalivaeva@leeds.ac.uk.

It is well known that the development of neurodegeneration, and especially 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), is often accompanied by impaired olfaction which 
precedes memory loss. A neuropeptidase neprilysin (NEP)-a principal 
amyloid-degrading enzyme in the brain-was also shown to be involved in olfactory 
signalling. Previously we have demonstrated that 5xFAD mice develop olfactory 
deficit by the age of 6 months which correlated with reduced NEP expression in 
the brain areas involved in olfactory signalling. The aim of this study was to 
analyse the effect of administration of a histone deacetylase inhibitor, 
valproic acid (VA), to adult 5xFAD mice on their olfaction and memory as well as 
on brain morphology and NEP expression in the parietal cortex (PC) and 
hippocampus (Hip). The data obtained demonstrated that administration of VA to 
7-month-old mice (200 mg/kg of body weight) for 28 days resulted in improvement 
of their memory in the Morris water maze as well as olfaction in the odor 
preference and food search tests. This correlated with increased expression of 
NEP in the PC and Hip as well as a reduced number of amyloid plaques in these 
brain areas. This strongly suggests that NEP can be considered an important 
therapeutic target not only in AD but also in olfactory loss.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-024-02287-3
PMID: 39549146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethics Approval All procedures were 
carried out in accordance with the international guidelines for work with 
experimental animals based on the European Community directive on the humane 
treatment of experimental animals (Directive #86 ⁄ 609 for the Care of 
Laboratory Animals) and NIH Guidelines for the care and use of laboratory 
animals (http://oacu.od.nih.gov/regs/ index.htm) and were approved by the 
Scientific Ethical Council of the Institute of Evolutionary Physiology and 
Biochemistry RAS. Consent for Publication All authors read and agreed to publish 
this paper. Competing Interests The authors declare no competing interests.


40. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2024 Nov;30(11):e70079. doi: 10.1111/cns.70079.

Endothelial Dysfunctions in Blood-Brain Barrier Breakdown in Alzheimer's 
Disease: From Mechanisms to Potential Therapies.

Yue Q(1)(2)(3)(4), Leng X(1)(2), Xie N(5)(6)(7), Zhang Z(5)(6)(7), Yang 
D(3)(4)(7), Hoi MPM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Macao SAR, China.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Health Sciences, University 
of Macau, Macao SAR, China.
(3)Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinan University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(4)The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Jinan University (Heyuan Shenhe People's 
Hospital), Heyuan, Guangdong, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, and 
Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Innovative Chemical Drug Research in 
Cardio-Cerebrovascular Diseases, and Institute of New Drug Research, Jinan 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(6)Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Joint Laboratory for Pharmacodynamic Constituents 
of TCM and New Drugs Research, and Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of 
Pharmacodynamic Constituents of TCM and New Drugs Research, Jinan University 
College of Pharmacy, Guangzhou, China.
(7)International Cooperative Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Modernization and Innovative Drug Development of Chinese Ministry of Education 
(MOE), Jinan University College of Pharmacy, Guangzhou, China.

Recent research has shown the presence of blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). BBB is a dynamic interface consisting of a continuous 
monolayer of brain endothelial cells (BECs) enveloped by pericytes and 
astrocytes. The restricted permeability of BBB strictly controls the exchange of 
substances between blood and brain parenchyma, which is crucial for brain 
homeostasis by excluding blood-derived detrimental factors and pumping out 
brain-derived toxic molecules. BBB breakdown in AD is featured as a series of 
BEC pathologies such as increased paracellular permeability, abnormal levels and 
functions of transporters, and inflammatory or oxidative profile, which may 
disturb the substance transportation across BBB, thereafter induce CNS disorders 
such as hypometabolism, Aβ accumulation, and neuroinflammation, eventually 
aggravate cognitive decline. Therefore, it seems important to protect BEC 
properties for BBB maintenance and neuroprotection. In this review, we 
thoroughly summarized the pathological alterations of BEC properties reported in 
AD patients and numerous AD models, including paracellular permeability, influx 
and efflux transporters, and inflammatory and oxidative profiles, and probably 
associated underlying mechanisms. Then we reviewed current therapeutic agents 
that are effective in ameliorating a series of BEC pathologies, and ultimately 
protecting BBB integrity and cognitive functions. Regarding the current drug 
development for AD proceeds extremely hard, this review aims to discuss the 
therapeutic potentials of targeting BEC pathologies and BBB maintenance for AD 
treatment, therefore expecting to shed a light on the future AD drug development 
by targeting BEC pathologies and BBB protection.

© 2024 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.70079
PMCID: PMC11567945
PMID: 39548663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


41. Mol Neurodegener. 2024 Nov 16;19(1):83. doi: 10.1186/s13024-024-00759-z.

Contribution of amyloid deposition from oligodendrocytes in a mouse model of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Ishii A(1), Pathoulas JA(1), MoustafaFathy Omar O(1), Ge Y(1), Yao AY(1), 
Pantalena T(1), Singh N(1), Zhou J(1), He W(1), Murphy P(2), Yan R(3), Hu 
X(4)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Connecticut Health Center, 263 
Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT, 06030-3401, USA.
(2)Department of Cell Biology and Vascular Biology Center, University of 
Connecticut Health Center, 263 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT, 06030-3401, 
USA.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, University of Connecticut Health Center, 263 
Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT, 06030-3401, USA. riyan@uchc.edu.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, University of Connecticut Health Center, 263 
Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT, 06030-3401, USA. xhu@uchc.edu.

BACKGROUND: The accumulation of β-amyloid (Aβ) peptides into insoluble plaques 
is an early pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). BACE1 is the sole 
β-secretase for Aβ generation, making it an attractive therapeutic target for AD 
therapy. While BACE1 inhibitors have been shown to reduce Aβ levels in people 
with AD, clinical trials targeting BACE1 have failed due to unwanted synaptic 
deficits. Understanding the physiological role of BACE1 in individual cell types 
is essential for developing effective BACE inhibitors for the treatment of AD. 
Recent single-cell RNA transcriptomic assays revealed that oligodendrocytes are 
enriched with genes required for generating Aβ. However, the contribution of 
oligodendrocytes to amyloid plaque burden in AD and the side effects of 
oligodendrocyte-specific Bace1 deletion remain to be explored.
METHODS: We generated an oligodendrocyte-specific Bace1 knockout model 
(Bace1fl/fl;Olig2-Cre) to monitor potential disruptions in myelination using 
standard electron microscopy. Long-term potentiation (LTP) was monitored to 
measure synaptic integrity. We crossed the Bace1fl/fl;Olig2-Cre model with 
heterozygous AppNL-G-F/wt knock-in AD mice to generate AD mice lacking 
oligodendrocyte Bace1 (Bace1fl/fl;Olig2-Cre; AppNL-G-F/wt) and examined amyloid 
plaque number and insoluble Aβ levels and gliosis in these animals. Single 
nuclei RNA sequencing experiments were conducted to examine molecular changes in 
response to Bace1 deficiency in oligodendrocytes in the wild type or APP 
knock-in background.
RESULTS: Bace1 deletion in oligodendrocytes caused no change in myelin thickness 
in the corpus callosum but a marginal reduction in myelin sheath thickness of 
the optic nerve. Synaptic strength measured by LTP was not different between 
Bace1fl/fl;Olig2-Cre and age-matched Bace1fl/fl control animals, suggesting no 
major effect on synaptic plasticity. Intriguingly, deletion of Bace1 in 
12-month-old heterozygous AD knock-in mice (Bace1fl/fl;Olig2-Cre; AppNL-G-F/wt 
mice) caused a significant reduction of amyloid plaques by ~ 33% in the 
hippocampus and ~ 29% in the cortex compared to age-matched AD mice 
(Bace1fl/fl;AppNL-G-F/wt). Insoluble Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 levels were reduced 
comparably while more astrocytes and microglia were observed in surrounding 
amyloid plaques. Unbiased single-nuclei RNA sequencing results revealed that 
deletion of oligodendrocyte Bace1 in APPNL-G-F/wt knock-in mice increased 
expression of genes associated with Aβ generation and clearance such as ADAM10, 
Ano4, ApoE, Il33, and Sort1.
CONCLUSION: Our results provide compelling evidence that the amyloidogenic 
pathway in oligodendrocytes contributes to Aβ plaque formation in the AD brain. 
While specifically targeting BACE1 inhibition in oligodendrocytes for reducing 
Aβ pathology in AD is likely challenging, this is a potentially explorable 
strategy in future studies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-024-00759-z
PMCID: PMC11568619
PMID: 39548583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethical Approval and Consent to 
participate All experimental protocols were approved by the Institutional Animal 
Care and Use Committee of the University of Connecticut School of Medicine in 
compliance with the guidelines established by the Public Health Service Guide 
for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Consent for publication All authors 
have read and approved the final manuscript. Competing interests All authors 
declare no conflict of interests.


42. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2025 Apr;46(4):816-828. doi: 10.1038/s41401-024-01416-3. 
Epub 2024 Nov 15.

Targeting chaperone-mediated autophagy in neurodegenerative diseases: mechanisms 
and therapeutic potential.

Wu J(1), Xu W(2), Su Y(2), Wang GH(3), Ma JJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Suzhou Dushu Lake Hospital, Medical Center of Soochow University, Suzhou, 
215123, China. jinw913@163.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Suzhou Dushu Lake Hospital, Medical Center of Soochow University, Suzhou, 
215123, China.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Neuropathology, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of 
Neuropsychiatric Diseases and College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, 215123, China. wanggh@suda.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Suzhou Dushu Lake Hospital, Medical Center of Soochow University, Suzhou, 
215123, China. jingjingmajj@suda.edu.cn.

The pathological hallmarks of various neurodegenerative diseases including 
Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease prominently feature the accumulation 
of misfolded proteins and neuroinflammation. Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) 
has emerged as a distinct autophagic process that coordinates the lysosomal 
degradation of specific proteins bearing the pentapeptide motif 
Lys-Phe-Glu-Arg-Gln (KFERQ), a recognition target for the cytosolic chaperone 
HSC70. Beyond its role in protein quality control, recent research underscores 
the intimate interplay between CMA and immune regulation in neurodegeneration. 
In this review, we illuminate the molecular mechanisms and regulatory pathways 
governing CMA. We further discuss the potential roles of CMA in maintaining 
neuronal proteostasis and modulating neuroinflammation mediated by glial cells. 
Finally, we summarize the recent advancements in CMA modulators, emphasizing the 
significance of activating CMA for the therapeutic intervention in 
neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Shanghai Institute of Materia 
Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1038/s41401-024-01416-3
PMCID: PMC11950187
PMID: 39548290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


43. Trends Mol Med. 2024 Dec;30(12):1152-1164. doi: 10.1016/j.molmed.2024.10.010.
 Epub 2024 Nov 14.

Advancements and challenges in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease.

Qian Z(1), Li Y(2), Ye K(3).

Author information:
(1)Brain Cognition and Brain Disease Institute (BCBDI), Shenzhen Institute of 
Advanced Technology (SIAT), Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, 
Guangdong, China.
(2)Faculty of Life and Health Sciences, Shenzhen University of Advanced 
Technology (SUAT), Shenzhen, 518055, Guangdong, China.
(3)Brain Cognition and Brain Disease Institute (BCBDI), Shenzhen Institute of 
Advanced Technology (SIAT), Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, 
Guangdong, China; Faculty of Life and Health Sciences, Shenzhen University of 
Advanced Technology (SUAT), Shenzhen, 518055, Guangdong, China. Electronic 
address: yekeqiang@suat-sz.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) poses a significant health challenge worldwide, and the 
development of effective treatments necessitates a comprehensive understanding 
of its pathophysiology. Mouse models have been instrumental in offering insights 
into the crucial pathogenesis of AD. However, current models rarely recapitulate 
all aspects of AD pathology in patients; thus, translating the findings from 
mouse to human clinical trials has proved to be complex. In this review, we 
outline the development of some prevalently used AD mice, with a particular 
emphasis on the latest advances in newly generated models. In addition, we 
discuss the advantages and limitations in mouse models of AD and their 
applications in blood-based biomarkers. Finally, we speculate on potential 
future research directions.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmed.2024.10.010
PMID: 39547883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


44. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 May;33(5):535-545. doi: 
10.1016/j.jagp.2024.10.011. Epub 2024 Oct 23.

Testing the Efficacy of a Culturally Adapted Family Dementia Caregiver 
Intervention (REACH VN): Results From a Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial in 
Northern Vietnam.

Nguyen H(1), Nguyen HT(2), Nguyen NB(3), Tran D(4), Harvey DJ(5), Nguyen BT(3), 
Nguyen BTT(3), Nguyen AN(3), Nguyen CTH(3), Nguyen TTH(2), Nguyen TL(3), Nguyen 
ATP(3), Nguyen NH(3), Nguyen AL(3), Luong YH(3), Nguyen BH(6), Nguyen PQ(3), 
Gitlin LN(7), Nguyen TA(2), Pham T(2), Hinton L(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing (HN), University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN. Electronic 
address: nguy4786@umn.edu.
(2)Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital (HTN, NBN, BTN, BTTN, ANN, CTHN, TTN, 
TLN, ATPN, NHN, ALN, YHL, PQN, TAN, TP), Hanoi, Vietnam; Department of Neurology 
(HTN), Department of Geriatrics (TTHN, TAN, TP), Hanoi Medical University, 
Hanoi, Vietnam.
(3)Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital (HTN, NBN, BTN, BTTN, ANN, CTHN, TTN, 
TLN, ATPN, NHN, ALN, YHL, PQN, TAN, TP), Hanoi, Vietnam.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences (DT, LH), University of 
California, Davis, Sacramento, CA.
(5)Department of Public Health Sciences (DJH), University of California, Davis, 
Davis, CA.
(6)Hai Duong General Hospital (BHN), Hai Duong, Vietnam.
(7)College of Nursing and Health Professions, Drexel University (LNG), 
Philadelphia, PA.

OBJECTIVES: Vietnam faces an unprecedented increase in people living with 
dementia but lacks evidence-based family dementia caregiver interventions. We 
tested the efficacy of a culturally adapted family caregiver intervention (REACH 
VN) in Northern Vietnam.
METHODS: In this randomized controlled trial, clusters (communes) were assigned 
to1 REACH VN (a multicomponent intervention consisting of 4-6 one-hour sessions 
delivered over 1-3 months) or2 enhanced control (one session of dementia 
education). Primary outcomes were caregiver perceived psychological distress 
(PHQ-4) and burden (ZBI-12). Secondary outcomes were caregiver perceived stress 
(PSS-10) and somatic symptoms (PHQ-15). Mixed effects analysis was performed 
with 3-month and 6-month assessments as the outcomes and baseline assessment as 
a covariate.
RESULTS: Overall, 350 caregivers from 40 clusters (21 intervention, 19 enhanced 
control) enrolled and 330 (94.3%) completed 3-month assessments. At 3 months, 
the REACH VN intervention group had lower PHQ-4 (p <0.001) but not ZBI-12 (p = 
0.05) scores compared to control. At 6 months, the intervention group had lower 
ZBI-12 (p = 0.002) but not PHQ-4 (p = 0.5) scores. PSS-10 and PHQ-15 scores were 
also improved at 3 months (p = 0.007, p <0.001 respectively) for the REACH VN 
intervention group compared with control but not at 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS: REACH VN improved outcomes in family caregivers in Vietnam at 3 
months although improvement was not sustained for most outcomes at 6 months.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2024.10.011
PMCID: PMC11903202
PMID: 39547823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure/Conflict of Interest The authors 
report no conflicts with any product mentioned or concept discussed in this 
article.


45. PET Clin. 2025 Jan;20(1):89-100. doi: 10.1016/j.cpet.2024.09.015.

Clinical Applications of PET Imaging in Alzheimer's Disease.

Patil S(1), Ayubcha C(2), Teichner E(1), Subtirelu R(3), Cho JH(4), Ghonim M(5), 
Ghonim M(5), Werner TJ(3), Høilund-Carlsen PF(6), Alavi A(3), Newberg AB(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, PA, USA; 
Sidney Kimmel Medical College, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Epidemiology, Harvard 
T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, PA, USA.
(4)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, PA, USA; 
Department of Radiology, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(6)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(7)Marcus Institute of Integrative Health, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA; Department of Radiology, Thomas Jefferson 
University, Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic address: 
Andrew.newberg@jefferson.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves a complex pathophysiology of neurodegeneration 
that leads to severe cognitive deficiencies. Understanding the molecular 
alterations that underlie this disease is fundamental to clinical management and 
therapeutic innovation. Functional imaging with positron emission tomography 
(PET) enables a visualization of these impaired pathways, such as cerebral 
hypometabolism, amyloid and tau accumulation, and neurotransmitter dysfunction. 
This review discusses the clinical applications of PET in AD and mild cognitive 
impairment, focusing on relevant original research studies for disease 
diagnosis, progression, and treatment response.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cpet.2024.09.015
PMID: 39547733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors have no disclosures to 
declare.


46. Metabolism. 2025 Feb;163:156064. doi: 10.1016/j.metabol.2024.156064. Epub
2024  Nov 14.

PCSK9 in metabolism and diseases.

Ajoolabady A(1), Pratico D(2), Mazidi M(3), Davies IG(4), Lip GYH(5), Seidah 
N(6), Libby P(7), Kroemer G(8), Ren J(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL 35294, USA.
(2)Alzheimer's Center at Temple, Lewis Katz School of Medicine, Temple 
University, Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA.
(3)Medical Research Council Population Health Research Unit, University of 
Oxford, Oxford, UK; King's College London, Department of Twin Research & Genetic 
Epidemiology, South Wing St Thomas', London, UK; Clinical Trial Service Unit and 
Epidemiological Studies Unit (CTSU), Nuffield Department of Population Health, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(4)School of Sport and Exercise Sciences, Faculty of Science, Liverpool John 
Moores University, Copperas Hill, Liverpool L3 5AJ, UK.
(5)Liverpool Centre for Cardiovascular Science, University of Liverpool and 
Liverpool Heart & Chest Hospital, Liverpool, UK; Department of Clinical 
Medicine, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.
(6)Laboratory of Biochemical Neuroendocrinology, Montreal Clinical Research 
Institute (IRCM, affiliated to the University of Montreal), Montreal, QC H2W 
1R7, Canada. Electronic address: Nabil.Seidah@ircm.qc.ca.
(7)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
plibby@bwh.harvard.edu.
(8)Centre de Recherche des Cordeliers, Equipe labellisée par la Ligue contre le 
cancer, Université de Paris Cité, Sorbonne Université, Inserm U1138, Institut 
Universitaire de France, Paris, France; Metabolomics and Cell Biology Platforms, 
Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France; Institut du Cancer Paris CARPEM, 
Department of Biology, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, AP-HP, Paris, France. 
Electronic address: kroemer@orange.fr.
(9)Shanghai Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Department of Cardiology, 
Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China; National Clinical 
Research Center for Interventional Medicine, Shanghai 200032, China. Electronic 
address: jren_aldh2@outlook.com.

PCSK9 is a serine protease that regulates plasma levels of low-density 
lipoprotein (LDL) and cholesterol by mediating the endolysosomal degradation of 
LDL receptor (LDLR) in the liver. When PCSK9 functions unchecked, it leads to 
increased degradation of LDLR, resulting in elevated circulatory levels of LDL 
and cholesterol. This dysregulation contributes to lipid and cholesterol 
metabolism abnormalities, foam cell formation, and the development of various 
diseases, including cardiovascular disease (CVD), viral infections, cancer, and 
sepsis. Emerging clinical and experimental evidence highlights an imperative 
role for PCSK9 in metabolic anomalies such as hypercholesterolemia and 
hyperlipidemia, as well as inflammation, and disturbances in mitochondrial 
homeostasis. Moreover, metabolic hormones - including insulin, glucagon, 
adipokines, natriuretic peptides, and sex steroids - regulate the expression and 
circulatory levels of PCSK9, thus influencing cardiovascular and metabolic 
functions. In this comprehensive review, we aim to elucidate the regulatory role 
of PCSK9 in lipid and cholesterol metabolism, pathophysiology of diseases such 
as CVD, infections, cancer, and sepsis, as well as its pharmaceutical and 
non-pharmaceutical targeting for therapeutic management of these conditions.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.metabol.2024.156064
PMID: 39547595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest GK has been 
holding research contracts with Daiichi Sankyo, Eleor, Kaleido, Lytix Pharma, 
PharmaMar, Osasuna Therapeutics, Samsara Therapeutics, Sanofi, Tollys, and 
Vascage. GK has been consulting for Reithera. GK is on the Board of Directors of 
the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation France. GK is a scientific co-founder of 
everImmune, Osasuna Therapeutics, Samsara Therapeutics and Therafast Bio. GK is 
the inventor of patents covering therapeutic targeting of aging, cancer, cystic 
fibrosis and metabolic disorders. Other authors have no potential conflict of 
interest to declare. Dr. Libby is an unpaid consultant to, or involved in 
clinical trials for Amgen, AstraZeneca, Baim Institute, Beren Therapeutics, 
Esperion Therapeutics, Genentech, Kancera, Kowa Pharmaceuticals, Medimmune, 
Merck, Moderna, Novo Nordisk, Novartis, Pfizer, and Sanofi-Regeneron. Dr. Libby 
is a member of the scientific advisory board for Amgen, Caristo Diagnostics, 
Cartesian Therapeutics, CSL Behring, DalCor Pharmaceuticals, Dewpoint 
Therapeutics, Eulicid Bioimaging, Kancera, Kowa Pharmaceuticals, Olatec 
Therapeutics, Medimmune, Novartis, PlaqueTec, TenSixteen Bio, Soley 
Thereapeutics, and XBiotech, Inc. Dr. Libby's laboratory has received research 
funding in the last 2 years from Novartis, Novo Nordisk and Genentech. Dr. Libby 
is on the Board of Directors of XBiotech, Inc. Dr. Libby has a financial 
interest in Xbiotech, a company developing therapeutic human antibodies, in 
TenSixteen Bio, a company targeting somatic mosaicism and clonal hematopoiesis 
of indeterminate potential (CHIP) to discover and develop novel therapeutics to 
treat age-related diseases, and in Soley Therapeutics, a biotechnology company 
that is combining artificial intelligence with molecular and cellular response 
detection for discovering and developing new drugs, currently focusing on cancer 
therapeutics. Dr. Libby's interests were reviewed and are managed by Brigham and 
Women's Hospital and Mass General Brigham in accordance with their 
conflict-of-interest policies.


47. Neuroscience. 2024 Dec 17;563:222-234. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.11.022.  Epub 2024 Nov 14.

Semaglutide promotes the transition of microglia from M1 to M2 type to reduce 
brain inflammation in APP/PS1/tau mice.

Wang ZJ(1), Han WN(2), Chai SF(1), Li Y(1), Fu CJ(1), Wang CF(1), Cai HY(3), Li 
XY(4), Wang X(5), Hölscher C(6), Wu MN(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Key Laboratory of Cellular Physiology, Ministry of 
Education, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, Shanxi Province, PR China.
(2)Department of Physiology, Puai Medical College (Medical College), Shaoyang 
University, Shaoyang, Hunan Province, PR China.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Shanxi Medical University, 
Taiyuan, Shanxi Province, PR China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Third Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, Shanxi 
Bethune Hospital, Shanxi Academy of Medical Sciences Tongji Shanxi Hospital, 
Taiyuan, Shanxi Province, PR China.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, First Clinical Medical College of Shanxi Medical 
University, Taiyuan, Shanxi Province, PR China.
(6)Henan Academy of Innovations in Medical Science, Brain Institute, Zhengzhou, 
Henan Province, PR China. Electronic address: c.holscher@hactcm.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Physiology, Key Laboratory of Cellular Physiology, Ministry of 
Education, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, Shanxi Province, PR China. 
Electronic address: wmna@163.com.

A growing number of studies show that the diabetes drug Semaglutide is 
neuroprotective in Alzheimer's disease (AD) animal models, but its mode of 
action is not fully understood. In order to explore the mechanism of 
Semaglutide, 7-month-old APP/PS1/tau transgenic (3xTg) mice and wild-type (WT) 
mice were randomly divided into four groups: control group (WT + PBS), AD model 
group (3xTg + PBS), Semaglutide control group (WT + Semaglutide) and Semaglutide 
treatment group (3xTg + Semaglutide). Semaglutide (25 nmol/kg) or PBS was 
administered intraperitoneally once every two days for 30 days, followed by 
behavioral and molecular experiments. The results show that Semaglutide can 
improve working memory and spatial reference memory of 3xTg-AD mice, promote the 
release of anti-inflammatory factors and inhibit the production of 
pro-inflammatory factors in the cortex and hippocampus, and reduce Aβ deposition 
in the hippocampal CA1 region of 3xTg mice. Semaglutide can inhibit the 
apoptosis of BV2 cells induced by Aβ1-42 in a dose-dependent manner and promote 
the transformation of microglia from M1 to M2, thereby exerting 
anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects. Therefore, we speculate that 
Semaglutide shows an anti-inflammatory effect by promoting the transformation of 
microglia from M1 to M2 type in the brain of 3xTg mice, and thus exerts a 
neuroprotective effect.

Copyright © 2024 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.11.022
PMID: 39547338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


48. Neurobiol Aging. 2025 Feb;146:1-14. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2024.11.003.  Epub 2024 Nov 10.

Calcineurin/NFAT inhibitors maintain cognition in a preclinical prevention study 
in an aging canine model of Alzheimer disease.

Sordo L(1), Ubele MF(2), Boaz KA(2), Mefford JL(3), Jones ED(3), McCarty KL(3), 
van Rooyen HY(3), Smiley J(3), Bembenek Bailey SA(3), Perpich JA(3), Meacham 
B(4), Powell DK(4), Bresch F(2), Crump JW(2), Phelan MJ(1), Noche JA(5), Stark 
CE(5), Puskás LG(6), Norris CM(2), Head E(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of 
California, 837 Health Sciences Rd., Irvine, CA 92697, USA.
(2)Sanders Brown Center on Aging, Department of Pharmacology and Nutritional 
Sciences, College of Medicine, University of Kentucky, 800 S. Limestone 
Street, Lexington, KY 19104, USA.
(3)Division of Laboratory Animal Resources, University of Kentucky, 204 Health 
Sciences Research Building, Lexington, KY 19104, USA.
(4)Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Spectroscopy Center, University of 
Kentucky, 740 Rose Street, Lexington, KY 19104, USA.
(5)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Department of Cognitive Sciences, 
University of California, 2205 McGaugh Hall, Irvine, CA 92697, USA.
(6)Aperus Pharma, Alsó kikötő sor 11/D, Szeged H-6726, Hungary.
(7)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of 
California, 837 Health Sciences Rd., Irvine, CA 92697, USA. Electronic address: 
heade@uci.edu.

Brain signaling of calcineurin (CN) and nuclear factor of activated T-cells 
(NFAT) transcription factor increases in Alzheimer disease (AD) and is 
associated with synaptic loss, neurodegeneration, neuroinflammation, amyloid-β 
(Aβ) production, and cognitive decline. CN/NFAT inhibitors ameliorate these 
neuropathologies in mouse models of AD. Further, chronic use of tacrolimus in 
transplant patients reduces risk of AD. Beagles naturally develop Aβ plaques and 
cognitive dysfunction. We evaluated the impact of FDA-approved CN inhibitor, 
tacrolimus, and experimental NFAT inhibitor, Q134R, on cognitive outcomes during 
a three-year prevention study in 37 middle-aged beagles. While beagles treated 
with CN/NFAT inhibitors showed differences in the pattern of cognitive 
maintenance and duration of their effect, there was improvement in spatial 
learning, as well as maintenance of memory, attention, and working memory 
relative to placebo dogs. CN/NFAT inhibition is a promising target for 
prevention of cognitive decline that may be rapidly implemented in human 
clinical trials.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2024.11.003
PMID: 39547056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Personal 
financial interest as LGP is the main shareholder of one of Aperus Pharma Co. 
Ltd’s company shares.


49. Biophys Chem. 2025 Jan;316:107349. doi: 10.1016/j.bpc.2024.107349. Epub 2024
Nov  7.

Supramolecular arrangements in human amyloid tissues using SAXS.

Ihsan NSMN(1), Abdul Sani SF(2), Looi LM(3), Pathmanathan D(4), Cheah PL(3), 
Chiew SF(3), Chio-Srichan S(5), Soontaranon S(5), Bradley DA(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, University of Malaya, 50603 Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, University of Malaya, 50603 Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia. Electronic address: s.fairus@um.edu.my.
(3)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 50603 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Faculty of Science, University of Malaya, 
50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(5)Synchrotron Light Research, Institute (Public Organization), Nakhon 
Ratchasima 30000, Thailand.
(6)Applied Physics and Radiation Technologies Group, CCDCU, School of 
Engineering and Technology, Sunway University, 47500 Bandar Sunway, Selangor, 
Malaysia; School of Mathematics and Physics, University of Surrey, Guildford GU2 
7XH, UK.

Amyloid diseases are characterized by the accumulation of misfolded protein 
aggregates in human tissues, pose significant challenges for both diagnosis and 
treatment. Protein aggregations known as amyloids are linked to several 
neurodegenerative conditions including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
and systemic amyloidosis. The key goal of this research is to employ Small-Angle 
X-ray Scattering (SAXS) to examine the supramolecular structures of amyloid 
aggregates in human tissues. We present the structural analysis of amyloid using 
SAXS, which is employed directly to analyze thin tissue samples without damaging 
the tissues. This technique provides size and shape information of fibrils, 
which can be used to generate low-resolution 2D models. The present study 
investigates the structural changes in amyloid fibril axial d-spacing and 
scattering intensity in different human tissues, including kidney, heart, 
thyroid, and others, while also accounting for the presence of triglycerides in 
these tissues. Tissue structural components were examined at momentum transfer 
values between q = 0.2 nm-1 and 1.5 nm-1. The d-spacing is a critical parameter 
in SAXS that provides information about the periodic distances between 
structures within a sample. From the supramolecular SAXS patterns, the axial 
d-spacing of fibrils in amyloid tissues is prominent and exists within the 3rd 
to 10th order, compared to that of healthy tissues which do not have notable 
peak orders. The axial period of fibrils in amyloid tissues is within the 
scattering vector range 57.40-64.64 nm-1 while in normal tissues the range is 
between 60.68 and 61.41 nm-1, which is 3.0 nm-1 smaller than amyloid-containing 
tissues. Differences in d-spacing are often correlate with distinct pathological 
mechanisms or stages of disease progression. The application of SAXS to 
investigate amyloid structures in human tissues has enormous potential to 
further knowledge of amyloid disorders. This work will open the path for novel 
diagnostic instruments and therapeutic strategies meant to reduce the burden of 
amyloid-related diseases by offering a thorough structural examination of 
amyloid aggregates.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpc.2024.107349
PMID: 39546937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
assert to have no competing interests.


50. Methods Mol Biol. 2025;2868:37-48. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-4200-9_3.

Personality, Aging, and Alzheimer's Disease: Implications for 
Psychoneuroimmunology and Personalized Medicine.

Yan Q(1).

Author information:
(1)PharmTao, Santa Clara, CA, USA. qyan@pharmtao.com.

Psychoneuroimmunology (PNI) advancements may revolutionize personalized medicine 
by identifying systemic biomarkers that enhance diagnosis and treatment. 
Inflammatory pathways connect personality traits with cognitive performance, 
aging-related disorders, and mortality risks. Studies have demonstrated the 
critical interactions between personality and various biological systems like 
the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. The gut-brain axis also affects 
behaviors and psychological states in older adults, with specific gut microbiota 
influencing cognition, mood, and personality. These findings underscore the 
practical implications of understanding personality-biology interactions. They 
can support preventive and personalized medicine for aging-associated disorders. 
Specifically, personality changes are prevalent in Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
patients, impacting clinical management and caregiver stress. Non-cognitive 
factors, such as personality traits and psychiatric symptoms, may serve as early 
markers of AD. Traits like high Neuroticism and low Openness can predict initial 
AD stages, often before a formal diagnosis. Personality alterations in AD are 
also linked to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and vascular imaging biomarkers, which 
can track AD pathology and serve as predictors. Dynamic personality assessment 
can aid in timely diagnosis, monitoring progression, and evaluating 
treatments of AD. Understanding personality traits is crucial for predicting 
burnout, lifespan, and intervention success. Integrating personality and PNI 
biomarkers into patient profiles will support the development of personalized 
and systems medicine.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-4200-9_3
PMID: 39546224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Feb;33(2):703-727. doi:
10.1007/s10787-024-01595-9.  Epub 2024 Nov 15.

Pathophysiological role of high mobility group box-1 signaling in 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Kumar V(1), Kumar P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, 
India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, 
India. punnubansal79@gmail.com.

Nucleocytoplasmic translocation of HMGB1 (high mobility group box-1) plays a 
significant role in disease progression. Several methods contribute to the 
translocation of HMGB1 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, including inflammasome 
activation, TNF-α signaling, CRM1-mediated transport, reactive oxygen species 
(ROS), JAK/STAT pathway, RIP3-mediated p53 involvement, XPO-1-mediated 
transport, and calcium-dependent mechanisms. Due to its diverse functions at 
various subcellular locations, HMGB1 has been identified as a crucial factor in 
several Central Nervous System (CNS) disorders, including Huntington's disease 
(HD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Alzheimer's disease (AD). HMGB1 displays a 
wide array of roles in the extracellular environment as it interacts with 
several receptors, including CXCR4, TLR2, TLR4, TLR8, and RAGE, by engaging in 
these connections, HMGB1 can effectively regulate subsequent signaling pathways, 
hence exerting an impact on the progression of brain disorders through 
neuroinflammation. Therefore, focusing on treating neuroinflammation could offer 
a common therapeutic strategy for several disorders. The objective of the 
current literature is to demonstrate the pathological role of HMGB1 in various 
neurological disorders. This review also offers insights into numerous 
therapeutic targets that promise to advance multiple treatments intended to 
alleviate brain illnesses.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-024-01595-9
PMID: 39546221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: All the 
authors declare that they did not have any financial or personal interest.


52. Neurochem Res. 2024 Nov 15;50(1):8. doi: 10.1007/s11064-024-04254-1.

Effect of JM-20 on Age-Related Cognitive Impairment in Mice.

Wong-Guerra M(1)(2), Montano-Peguero Y(1)(3), Ramírez-Sánchez J(1), Alfonso 
EG(1), Hernández-Enseñat D(1), Isaac YA(1), Padrón-Yaquis AS(1), da Rocha 
JBT(4), Fonseca-Fonseca LA(5), Núñez-Figueredo Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología Experimental, Centro de Investigación y 
Desarrollo de Medicamentos (CIDEM), Ave 26 No. 1605 Boyeros y Puentes Grandes, 
La Habana, 10600, Cuba.
(2)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Química y Biología, Universidad de 
Santiago de Chile, USACH, Santiago, Alameda, 3363, Chile.
(3)Facultad de Ciencias Químicas y Farmacéuticas, Advanced Center for Chronic 
Diseases (ACCDiS), Universidad de Chile, Santos Dumont 964, Casilla 233, 
Santiago, Chile.
(4)Programa de Pós-graduação em Bioquímica Toxicológica, Universidade Federal de 
Santa Maria (UFSM), Avenida Roraima 1000, Santa Maria, RS, 97105-900, Brazil.
(5)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología Experimental, Centro de Investigación y 
Desarrollo de Medicamentos (CIDEM), Ave 26 No. 1605 Boyeros y Puentes Grandes, 
La Habana, 10600, Cuba. luis.fonseca@cidem.cu.
(6)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología Experimental, Centro de Investigación y 
Desarrollo de Medicamentos (CIDEM), Ave 26 No. 1605 Boyeros y Puentes Grandes, 
La Habana, 10600, Cuba. yanier.nunez@cidem.cu.

The decline in cognitive function associated with aging significantly impacts 
the well-being of elderly individuals and their families. This decline is a 
major recognized risk factor for neurodegenerative diseases, notably Alzheimer's 
disease. Animal models of aging provide a platform for evaluating drugs 
concerning aspects like memory and oxidative stress. JM-20 has demonstrated 
protective effects on short-term memory acquisition and consolidation, along 
with antioxidant properties and modulation of Acetylcholinesterase activity. 
This study assesses the potential protective JM-20 against cognitive decline and 
age-related memory loss. For the study, aged mice exhibiting aging-associated 
damage were initially selected. Experimental groups were then formed, and the 
effect of 8 mg/kg of JM-20 was evaluated for 40 days on aging-related behavior, 
such as spatial memory, novelty recognition memory, ambulatory activity, and 
anxiety. Subsequently, animals were sacrificed, and the hippocampal region was 
extracted for redox studies and to assess acetylcholinesterase activity. Results 
indicated that JM-20 at 8 mg/kg reversed damage to spatial working and reference 
memory, exhibiting performance comparable to untreated young adult animals. 
Furthermore, JM-20 preserved the enzymatic activity of superoxide dismutase, 
catalase, and total sulfhydryl levels in age-related cognitive impairment in 
mice, indicating a potent protective effect against oxidative events at the 
brain level. However, only young, healthy animals showed decreased 
acetylcholinesterase enzyme activity. These findings provide preclinical 
pharmacological evidence supporting the neuroprotective activity of JM-20, 
positioning it as a promising therapeutic candidate for treating memory 
disorders associated with aging.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-024-04254-1
PMID: 39546064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethical Approval Housing conditions 
and experimental procedures were carried out following the institutional, 
national and international guidelines: Animal Care Committee from CIDEM (Havana, 
Cuba, National Institutes of Health Guide No. 80 − 23, 1978 and the National 
Institutes of Health guide for the care and use of Laboratory animals (NIH 
Publications 8023, 1978)). Competing Interests The authors declare no competing 
interests.


53. Acta Neuropathol. 2024 Nov 15;148(1):66. doi: 10.1007/s00401-024-02821-y.

Pure LATE-NC: Frequency, clinical impact, and the importance of considering APOE 
genotype when assessing this and other subtypes of non-Alzheimer's pathologies.

Katsumata Y(1)(2), Wu X(1)(2), Aung KZ(1)(2), Fardo DW(1)(2), Woodworth DC(3), 
Sajjadi SA(3)(4), Tomé SO(5), Thal DR(5)(6), Troncoso JC(7), Chang K(7), Mock 
C(8), Nelson PT(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, 
40536-0679, USA.
(2)Sanders-Brown Center On Aging, University of Kentucky, U. Kentucky, Rm 575 
Lee Todd Bldg 789 S. Limestone Ave, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of California, Irvine, CA, 92,697, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of California, Irvine, CA, 92,697, USA.
(5)Laboratory for Neuropathology, Department of Imaging and Pathology and Leuven 
Brain Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(6)Department of Pathology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(7)Departments of Pathology and Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(8)National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center (NACC), University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(9)Sanders-Brown Center On Aging, University of Kentucky, U. Kentucky, Rm 575 
Lee Todd Bldg 789 S. Limestone Ave, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA. 
pnels2@email.uky.edu.
(10)Department of Pathology, Division of Neuropathology, University of Kentucky, 
Rm 575 Lee Todd Bldg, U. Kentucky, 789 S. Limestone Ave., Lexington, KY, 
40536-0230, USA. pnels2@email.uky.edu.

Pure limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic 
changes (pure LATE-NC) is a term used to describe brains with LATE-NC but 
lacking intermediate or severe levels of Alzheimer's disease neuropathologic 
changes (ADNC). Focusing on pure LATE-NC, we analyzed data from the National 
Alzheimer's Coordinating Center (NACC) Neuropathology Data Set, comprising 
clinical and pathological information aggregated from 32 NIH-funded Alzheimer's 
Disease Research Centers (ADRCs). After excluding subjects dying with unusual 
conditions, n = 1,926 autopsied subjects were included in the analyses. 
For > 90% of these participants, apolipoprotein E (APOE) allele status was 
known; 46.5% had at least one APOE 4 allele. In most human populations, only 
15-25% of people are APOE ε4 carriers. ADRCs with higher documented AD risk 
allele (APOE or BIN1) rates had fewer participants lacking ADNC, and 
correspondingly low rates of pure LATE-NC. Among APOE ε4 non-carries, 5.3% had 
pure LATE-NC, 37.0% had pure ADNC, and 3.6% had pure neocortical Lewy body 
pathology. In terms of clinical impact, participants with pure LATE-NC tended to 
die after having received a diagnosis of dementia: 56% died with dementia among 
APOE ε4 non-carrier participants, comparable to 61% with pure ADNC. LATE-NC was 
associated with increased Clinical Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes (CDR-SOB) 
scores, i.e. worsened global cognitive impairments, in participants with no/low 
ADNC and no neocortical Lewy body pathology (p = 0.0023). Among pure LATE-NC 
cases, there was a trend for higher LATE-NC stages to be associated with worse 
CDR-SOB scores (p = 0.026 for linear trend of LATE-NC stages). Pure LATE-NC was 
not associated with clinical features of disinhibition or primary progressive 
aphasia. In summary, LATE-NC with no or low levels of ADNC was less frequent 
than pure ADNC but was not rare, particularly among individuals who lacked the 
APOE 4 allele, and in study cohorts with APOE 4 frequencies similar to those in 
most human populations.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00401-024-02821-y
PMCID: PMC11568059
PMID: 39546031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Conflict of interest DRT & SOT 
received consultant honorary from Muna Therapeutics (Belgium). DRT collaborated 
with Novartis Pharma AG (Switzerland), and GE-Healthcare (UK). DRT and PTN are 
members of Acta Neuropathologica editorial board. They were not involved in the 
assessment or decision-making process for this manuscript. The other authors 
declare that they have no competing interests. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate For all NACC data, only anonymized summary information was used. 
Institutional review board approval and informed consent were obtained from all 
participants at each of individual AD Research Center (ADRC). Under those 
auspices, informed consent was obtained from all individual participants 
included in the study. See https://naccdata.org/requesting-data/nacc-data 
Consent for publication Not applicable.


54. Chem Res Toxicol. 2024 Dec 16;37(12):2003-2012. doi: 
10.1021/acs.chemrestox.4c00357. Epub 2024 Nov 15.

Metabolic Activation and Cytotoxicity of Donepezil Induced by CYP3A4.

Zheng J(1), Zhao G(1), Hu Z(1), Jia C(1), Li W(2), Peng Y(1), Zheng J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Wuya College of Innovation, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, Shenyang, 
Liaoning 110016, P. R. China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Functions and Applications of Medicinal Plants, Key 
Laboratory of Pharmaceutics of Guizhou Province, Guizhou Medical University, 
Guiyang, Guizhou 550004, P. R. China.

Donepezil (DNP) is a selective cholinesterase inhibitor widely used for the 
therapy of Alzheimer's disease. Instances of liver injury correlated with DNP 
treatment have been reported, yet the underlying hepatotoxic mechanism remains 
to be elucidated. This study aimed to explore the contribution of metabolic 
activation to the hepatotoxicity of DNP. The structure of 6-O-desmethyl DNP 
(M1), the oxidative metabolite of DNP, was characterized by chemical synthesis, 
LC-MS/MS, and nuclear magnetic resonance. A reactive quinone methide resulting 
from the metabolism of DNP was captured by glutathione (GSH) fortified in liver 
microsomal incubations after exposure to DNP, and the resulting GSH conjugate 
(M2) was detected in the bile of rats receiving DNP. Recombinant human P450 
enzyme incubation studies demonstrated that CYP3A4 was the principal enzyme 
responsible for the production of M1 and M2. The generation of M2 declined in 
rat primary hepatocytes pretreated with ketoconazole, an inhibitor of CYP3A4, 
which also decreased the vulnerability of rat primary hepatocytes to DNP-caused 
cytotoxicity. These findings suggest that the quinone methide metabolite may 
contribute to the cytotoxicity and hepatotoxicity caused by the DNP.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrestox.4c00357
PMID: 39545607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Neurodegener Dis Manag. 2024;14(6):227-239. doi:
10.1080/17582024.2024.2421738.  Epub 2024 Nov 15.

Neurofilament light chain: a biomarker at the crossroads of clarity and 
confusion for gene-directed therapies.

A Virata MC(1)(2), Catahay JA(3), Lippi G(4), Henry BM(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, College of Science, De La Salle University, Manila, 
0922, Philippines.
(2)College of Medicine, San Beda University, 638 Mendiola St, San Miguel, 
Manila, 1005, Philippines.
(3)Department of Medicine, Saint Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, NJ 
08901, USA.
(4)Section of Clinical Biochemistry & School of Medicine, University of Verona, 
Verona, 37134, Italy.
(5)Clinical Laboratory, Division of Nephrology & Hypertension, Cincinnati 
Children's Hospital Medical Center, OH 45229, USA.
(6)International Cell & Gene Therapy Evidence Consortium, San Antonio, TX 78258, 
USA.

Neurofilament light chain (NfL) is a promising biomarker for neurodegenerative 
diseases, measurable in both CSF and blood upon neuroaxonal damage. While CSF 
analysis was traditionally used, blood-based assays now offer a less invasive 
alternative. NfL levels correlate with disease severity and progression in 
conditions like Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple 
sclerosis and Huntington's disease. Clinical trials demonstrate its utility as a 
pharmacodynamic biomarker in MS and ALS. The FDA's approval of Tofersen for 
SOD1-ALS based on NfL reduction underscores its growing acceptance as surrogate 
marker. However, challenges remain in standardizing assays, interpreting 
clinical correlations, low specificity and understanding the dynamics between 
CSF and blood NfL levels. Addressing these issues is crucial for maximizing 
NfL's potential in neurodegenerative disease management.

Plain Language Summary: [Box: see text].

DOI: 10.1080/17582024.2024.2421738
PMCID: PMC11703492
PMID: 39545606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests or 
relevant affiliations with any organization or entity with the subject matter or 
materials discussed in the manuscript. This includes employment, consultancies, 
stock ownership or options and expert testimony.


56. J Glob Health. 2024 Nov 15;14:04161. doi: 10.7189/jogh.14.04161.

Heterogeneity in the level of dementia literacy among community doctors in 
China: A latent profile analysis.

Qiu S(1)(2)(3), Zhao M(1)(4), Zhang H(1)(2)(3), Li T(1)(2)(3), Kuang W(5), Liu 
S(6), Sun Y(7), Wang M(8), Xie H(9), Yu E(10), Yu X(1)(2)(3), Wang H(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Dementia Care and Research Center, Peking University Institute of Mental 
Health (Sixth Hospital), Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Municipal Key Laboratory for the Translational Research on Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Dementia, Beijing, China.
(3)National Health Commission Key Laboratory of Mental Health, National Clinical 
Research Center for Mental Disorders (Peking University), Beijing, China.
(4)Beijing Haidian Psychological Rehabilitation Hospital, Haidian District, 
Beijing, China.
(5)Mental Health Center, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, First Hospital/First Clinical Medical College of 
Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China.
(7)Department of Neurology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing, China.
(8)The First Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(9)Department of Geriatric Neurology, the Chinese PLA General Hospital, Beijing, 
China.
(10)Department of Psychological Medicine, Cancer Hospital of the University of 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to explore the heterogeneity of community doctors 
based on their knowledge of dementia and the potential factors associated with 
their dementia literacy.
METHODS: A total of 1288 community doctors completed the Alzheimer disease 
knowledge scale (ADKS) in a cross-sectional study conducted between December 
2021 and January 2022. We used latent class analysis (LCA) to explore potential 
clusters based on responses to the ADKS. Multivariate multinomial logistic 
regression analysis was performed to evaluate the associations between potential 
risk factors and the knowledge of community doctors.
RESULTS: Community doctors were divided into four clusters according to their 
knowledge structure (Akaike information criterion (AIC) = 35672.83, Bayesian 
information criterion (BIC) = 36307.63, adjusted BIC (aBIC) = 35916.91, 
entropy = 0.814): the severity-focused subgroup (n = 269), the physical 
issues-focused group (n = 370), the knowledge uncertainty group (n = 191), and 
the general-focused group (n = 458). Age, education level, type of practice, and 
professional title were associated with the knowledge structure of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). In addition, the perception that patients seek care in community 
health centres for physical reasons and community doctors' failure to manage 
patients with recently identified cognitive impairment were associated with the 
structures of the ADKS among community doctors (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: There is heterogeneity in the level of AD knowledge among community 
doctors and their demographic characteristics, perceptions, and practices. 
Further efforts are needed to optimise the knowledge structure of dementia among 
community health care professionals.

Copyright © 2024 by the Journal of Global Health. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7189/jogh.14.04161
PMCID: PMC11565466
PMID: 39545364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of interest: The authors completed 
the ICMJE Disclosure of Interest Form (available upon request from the 
corresponding author) and disclose no relevant interests.


57. Stroke. 2025 Mar;56(3):758-776. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.124.045903. Epub 2024
Nov  15.

WMH Contributions to Cognitive Impairment: Rationale and Design of the Diverse 
VCID Study.

DeCarli C(1), Rajan KB(2), Jin LW(3), Hinman J(4), Johnson DK(1), Harvey D(5), 
Fornage M(6); Diverse VCID Study Investigators.

Collaborators: Beiser A, Gonzalez H, Kukull W, Barnes L, Elahi F, Rajan KB, 
Croff R, Kramer J, Weickenmeier J, Tudorascu D, Albert M, Craft S, Jicha G, Wolk 
DA, Paulson H, Brewer J, Asthana S, Seshadri S, Brickman A, Chui HC, Nelson A, 
Savitz S, Saykin A, Geldmacher D, Masurkar A, Rundek T, Maillard P, Knaack A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California at Davis, Sacramento (C.D., 
D.K.J.).
(2)Rush Institute for Healthy Aging, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
(K.B.J.).
(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (L.W.J.), University of 
California at Davis, Sacramento.
(4)Department of Neurology, University of California, Los Angeles (J.H.).
(5)Department of Public Health Sciences (D.H.), University of California at 
Davis, Sacramento.
(6)Brown Foundation Institute of Molecular Medicine, McGovern Medical School, 
The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston (M.F.).

As awareness of dementia increases, more individuals with minor cognitive 
complaints are requesting clinical assessment. Neuroimaging studies frequently 
identify incidental white matter hyperintensities, raising patient concerns 
about their brain health and future risk for dementia. Moreover, current US 
demographics indicate that ≈50% of these individuals will be from diverse 
backgrounds by 2060. Racial and ethnic minority populations bear a 
disproportionate burden of vascular risk factors magnifying dementia risk. 
Despite established associations between white matter hyperintensities and 
cognitive impairment, including dementia, no study has comprehensively and 
prospectively examined the impact of individual and combined magnetic resonance 
imaging measures of white matter injury, their risk factors, and comorbidities 
on cognitive performance among a diverse, nondemented, stroke-free population 
with cognitive complaints over an extended period of observation. The Diverse 
VCID (Diverse Vascular Cognitive Impairment and Dementia) study is designed to 
fill this knowledge gap through 3 assessments of clinical, behavioral, and risk 
factors; neurocognitive and magnetic resonance imaging measures; fluid 
biomarkers of Alzheimer disease, vascular inflammation, angiogenesis, and 
endothelial dysfunction; and measures of genetic risk collected prospectively 
over a minimum of 3 years in a cohort of 2250 individuals evenly distributed 
among Americans of Black/African, Latino/Hispanic, and non-Hispanic White 
backgrounds. The goal of this study is to investigate the basic mechanisms of 
small vessel cerebrovascular injury, emphasizing clinically relevant assessment 
tools and developing a risk score that will accurately identify at-risk 
individuals for possible treatment or clinical therapeutic trials, particularly 
individuals of diverse backgrounds where vascular risk factors and disease are 
more prevalent.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.124.045903
PMCID: PMC11850211
PMID: 39545328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr DeCarli is supported in part by National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) grants P30 AG072972, U19NS120384, R01 AG075758, RF1 
AG077639, and RF1 NS130659. He also serves as a consultant to Norvo Nordisk and 
Eisai Pharmaceuticals. Dr Rajan is supported in part by NIH grants R01 AG058679, 
R01 AG 065359, U19 NS 120384, and R01 AG 073627. Dr Jin is supported in part by 
NIH grants U19 NS120384, P30 AG072972, RF1 AG071665, RF1 AG052132, RF1 AG056519, 
and P01 AG025532. Dr Johnson is supported in part by NIH grants P30 AG072972 and 
U19NS120384 as well as CA Department of Public Health 18-10922, 22-10901, and 
22-2948. Dr Harvey is supported in part by NIH grants P30AG072972, U19AG024904, 
and U19NS120384 and is consultant to NervGen. Dr Hinman is supported in part by 
NIH grants UF1NS100608, UF1NS100614, U19 NS120384, and U19NS115388. He is also 
employed by US Department of Veterans Affairs, has stock holdings in Sage 
Cerebrovascular Diagnostics, serves as President for Sage Cerebrovascular 
Diagnostics, and has a patent pending for Serologic assay for silent brain 
ischemia licensed to Sage Cerebrovascular Diagnostics. Dr Fornage is supported 
in part by NIH grants U19NS120384, R01AG075758, and UF1NS125513.


58. Front Pharmacol. 2024 Oct 31;15:1500105. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1500105. 
eCollection 2024.

Epileptic seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole kindling accelerate 
Alzheimer-like neuropathology in 5×FAD mice.

Zou Y(#)(1), Wang C(#)(2), Li H(#)(3), Zhong M(4), Lin J(4), Hu Y(5), Chen Z(4), 
Gan CL(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunotherapy, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(2)Institute of Laboratory Animal Center, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 
China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy of Fuzhou First General Hospital Affiliated With 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(5)Public Technology Service Center, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

Clinical studies have shown that epileptic seizures worsen Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) pathology and related cognitive deficits; however, the underlying mechanism 
is unclear. To assess the effects of seizures on the progression of AD, chronic 
temporal lobe epilepsy was induced in five familial AD mutation (5×FAD) mice by 
kindling with the chemoconvulsant pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) at 3-3.5 months of 
age. The amyloidogenic pathway, tauopathy, synaptic damage, neuronal death, 
neurological inflammatory response and associated kinase signaling pathway 
dysregulation were examined at 9 months of age. We found that APP, p-APP, BACE1, 
Aβ and kinase-associated p-tau levels were elevated after PTZ kindling in 5×FAD 
mice. In addition, PTZ kindling exacerbated hippocampal synaptic damage and 
neuronal cell death, as determined by scanning electron microscopy and terminal 
deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end 
labeling (TUNEL) staining, respectively. Finally, the levels of the 
neuroinflammation markers GFAP and Iba1, as well as the inflammatory cytokine 
IL-1β, were increased after PTZ insult. PTZ kindling profoundly exacerbated 
extracellular regulated kinase (ERK)-death-associated protein kinase (DAPK) 
signaling pathway overactivation, and acute ERK inhibitor treatment 
downregulated Aβ production and p-APP and p-tau levels in epileptic 5×FAD mice. 
In addition, long-term use of the antiseizure drug carbamazepine (CBZ) 
alleviated seizure-induced accelerated amyloid and tau pathology and ERK-DAPK 
overactivation in 5×FAD mice. Collectively, these results demonstrate that 
seizure-induced increases in AD-like neuropathology in 5×FAD mice are partially 
regulated by the ERK-DAPK pathway, suggesting that the ERK-DAPK axis could be a 
new therapeutic target for the treatment of AD patients with comorbid seizures.

Copyright © 2024 Zou, Wang, Li, Zhong, Lin, Hu, Chen and Gan.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1500105
PMCID: PMC11560768
PMID: 39545066

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


59. Front Pharmacol. 2024 Oct 31;15:1492237. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1492237. 
eCollection 2024.

Combined administration of catalpol, puerarin, gastrodin, and borneol modulates 
the Tlr4/Myd88/NF-κB signaling pathway and alleviates microglia inflammation in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Ren H(1)(2), Tang L(3), Yuan Z(1), Liu Y(1), Zhou X(1), Xiao X(1), Wu X(1), Chen 
W(4), Chen Y(1), Wang H(1), Xue Q(5), Xu X(1)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Chinese Medicine, Southwest 
University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Tongren Polytechnic College, Tongren, Guizhou, China.
(3)Shapingba District People's Hospital of Chongqing, Chongqing, China.
(4)Faculty of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing, China.
(5)Chongqing Medical and Pharmaceutical College, Chongqing, China.
(6)Southwest University Hospital, Chongqing, China.
(7)Chongqing Key Laboratory of New Drug Screening form Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chongqing, China.
(8)Key Disciplines of Traditional Chinese Medicine of Chongqing City, 
Rehabilitation Medicine of Southwest University, Chongqing, China.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder affecting 
millions of people worldwide, with no effective treatment currently available. 
In recent decades, various traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs) and their active 
ingredients have shown the potential to attenuate the pathogenesis of AD in 
cellular and animal models. However, the effects of TCM formulas, which are 
typically administered in practice, have been less studied. This study aims to 
investigate the therapeutic effects of several formulas consisting of 4 
components herbal components: catalpol, puerarin, gastrodin, and borneol, on 
streptozotocin (STZ)-induced AD models in cells and rats. The new object 
recognition (NOR), elevated plus maze (EMP), and Morris water maze (MWM) tests 
were used to evaluate the cognitive functions of rats. Golgi staining, 
Haematoxylin and Eosin (HE) staining, and Nissl staining analyses were employed 
assess the physiology of hippocampal tissues. Gene expression profiles were 
analyzed used transcriptomics and reverse transcription quantitative polymerase 
chain reaction analysis, while protein expression levels were determined using 
immunoblotting, immunohistochemical, and immunofluorescence. The production of 
cytokines was evaluated with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The results 
demonstrated that the combined administration of these 4 components (CPGB) had 
superior mitigating effects on AD cell model, as evidenced by the reduced 
pro-inflammatory cytokine production and decreased deposition of Aβ protein. 
Further in vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed that varying doses of CPGB 
formula effectively ameliorated STZ-induced cognitive deficits, as shown by NOR, 
MWM, and EMP tests, as well as pathological changes in hippocampal tissues and a 
3-dimensional brain neurovascular unit (3D-NVU) model, including decreased 
deposition of Aβ protein and formation of plaques. Transcriptome sequencing and 
analysis identified 35 genes with significantly altered expression levels due to 
STZ and CPGB treatment in hippocampal tissues, which were enriched in the 
Tlr4/Myd88/NF-κB signaling pathway. Interference with this pathway significantly 
influenced the therapeutic effects of CPGB in the 3D-NVU model. Collectively, 
these findings suggest that the combined administration of catalpol, puerarin, 
gastrodin, and borneol offers superior therapeutic effects on AD by modulating 
the Tlr4/Myd88/NF-κB signaling pathway. This study strengthens the theoretical 
foundation for using TCMs to treat AD, proving new insights and references for 
alleviating and treating AD.

Copyright © 2024 Ren, Tang, Yuan, Liu, Zhou, Xiao, Wu, Chen, Chen, Wang, Xue and 
Xu.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1492237
PMCID: PMC11560463
PMID: 39545064

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


60. Front Neurosci. 2024 Oct 31;18:1499458. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1499458. 
eCollection 2024.

More than microglia: myeloid cells and biomarkers in neurodegeneration.

Kodosaki E(1)(2), Bell R(1)(2), Sogorb-Esteve A(2)(3), Wiltshire K(3), 
Zetterberg H(1)(2)(4)(5)(6)(7), Heslegrave A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
United Kingdom.
(2)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong 
SAR, China.
(7)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
United States.

The role of myeloid cells (granulocytes and monocytes) in neurodegeneration and 
neurodegenerative disorders (NDD) is indisputable. Here we discuss the roles of 
myeloid cells in neurodegenerative diseases, and the recent advances in biofluid 
and imaging myeloid biomarker research with a focus on methods that can be used 
in the clinic. For this review, evidence from three neurodegenerative diseases 
will be included, Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and 
multiple sclerosis (MS). We discuss the potential for these biomarkers to be 
used in humans with suspected NDD as prognostic, diagnostic, or monitoring 
tools, identify knowledge gaps in literature, and propose potential approaches 
to further elucidate the role of myeloid cells in neurodegeneration and better 
utilize myeloid biomarkers in the understanding and treatment of NDD.

Copyright © 2024 Kodosaki, Bell, Sogorb-Esteve, Wiltshire, Zetterberg and 
Heslegrave.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1499458
PMCID: PMC11560917
PMID: 39544911

Conflict of interest statement: HZ has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, 
Roche, and WebMD, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg 
AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside 
submitted work). The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted 
in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be 
construed as a potential conflict of interest.61. Age Ageing. 2024 Nov 1;53(11):afae250. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afae250.

The Italian guideline on diagnosis and treatment of dementia and mild cognitive 
impairment.

Fabrizi E(1), Ancidoni A(1), Locuratolo N(1), Piscopo P(2), Della Gatta F(3), 
Salemme S(4)(5), Pani SM(6), Marconi D(7), Vignatelli L(8), Sagliocca L(9), 
Caffarra P(10)(11), Secreto P(11)(12), Guaita A(11)(13), Stracciari A(11)(14), 
Vanacore N(1)(11), Lacorte E(1); Guideline Working Group.

Collaborators: Caffarra P, Guaita A, Secreto P, Stracciari A, Vanacore N, 
Sagliocca L, Vignatelli L, Battista P, Borgarelli C, Cerami C, Chiari A, Corbo 
M, Costa A, Cotelli M, Dodich A, Faè E, Favaretto E, Frisardi V, Fubini L, 
Gandelli M, Gollin D, Imperiale D, Ivaldi C, Izzicupo F, Lanzoni A, Lavermicocca 
V, Lazzarino M, Liperoti R, Massaia M, Menabue G, Molinari MA, Morelli A, 
Peruzzi A, Piazza F, Possenti M, Ricci C, Russo S, Spadin P, Spalletta G, Zenaro 
D, Ancidoni A, Della Gatta F, Fabrizi E, Lacorte E, Locuratolo N, Piscopo P, 
Bacigalupo I, Bellomo G, Canevelli M, Carbone E, Crestini A, Distaso E, Druda Y, 
Esposito S, Fumagalli G, Morelli S, Paggetti A, Remoli G, Rivabene R, Salemme S, 
Sciancalepore F, Valletta M, Veronese N, Zaccaria V, Coclite D, Fauci A, 
Napoletano A, Bini C, Mennini FS, Sciattella P, Ceccarini A, Mitrova Z, 
Pizzarelli S, Saulle R, Gainotti S, Petrini C, Riva L, De Masi S, Nonino F, 
Porrello MC, Martelli G.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Italian National 
Institute of Health, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Italian National Institute of Health, Rome, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Mental Health and Sense Organs (NESMOS), Faculty 
of Medicine and Psychology, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Biomedical, Metabolic and Neural Sciences, University of Modena 
and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.
(5)International School of Advanced Studies, University of Camerino, Camerino, 
Italy.
(6)Department of Medical Sciences and Public Health, University of Cagliari, 
Monserrato, Cagliari, Italy.
(7)Post Graduate School of Public Health, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
(8)IRCCS Istituto delle Scienze Neurologiche di Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(9)Local Health Unit Salerno, Salerno, Italy.
(10)Dementia Unit A.O.U. (Parma), Parma, Italy.
(11)National Committee for Dementia of the Italian Ministry of Health, Rome, 
Italy.
(12)Alzheimer Unit, Fatebenefratelli Hospital, San Maurizio Canavese, Italy.
(13)Golgi Cenci Foundation, Abbiategrasso, Milan, Italy.
(14)Cognitive Disorder Center, Neurology Unit, S.Orsola-Malpighi University 
Hospital, Bologna, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Approximately 2 million people in Italy are currently living with 
dementia or mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 4 million are involved as 
family members or caregivers. Considering the significant impact of dementia, 
the Italian Ministry of Health entrusted the Italian National Institute of 
Health (Istituto Superiore di Sanità) with the development of a guideline within 
the Italian National Guideline System (Sistema Nazionale Linee Guida, SNLG) on 
the diagnosis and treatment of dementia and MCI. The main objective was to 
provide evidence-based recommendations aimed at reducing the variability and 
ensuring the appropriateness of clinical practices throughout the whole care 
process from identification and diagnosis to the end of life for people with 
dementia (PwD) or MCI and their families/caregivers.
METHODS: The GRADE-ADOLOPMENT approach was used to adopt, adapt and update the 
guideline developed by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence in 
2018 (NG97). The methodology was based on the Methodological Handbook produced 
by the SNLG. A multidisciplinary panel of 29 experts and four representatives of 
family members/caregivers discussed and approved 47 review questions. Of these, 
34 questions were adopted from the NG97, and 13 were new questions, including 10 
questions referring to MCI. Systematic literature reviews were performed for 
each question, and a team of methodological and clinical experts qualitatively 
assessed and summarised results from included studies based on the GRADE 
approach. To facilitate the implementation and dissemination of the contents of 
this guideline, a care pathway and a leaflet dedicated to PwD or MCI and their 
families/caregivers were also developed.
RESULTS: The literature review for this guideline included studies published up 
to November 2023. More than 1000 peer-reviewed publications were included, 
covering the following areas: (i) identification, diagnosis and post-diagnostic 
support; (ii) care models and care coordination; (iii) pharmacological 
interventions for cognitive symptoms; (iv) non-pharmacological interventions for 
cognitive symptoms; (v) non-cognitive symptoms, intercurrent illnesses and 
palliative care. The multidisciplinary panel discussed and approved 167 clinical 
practice recommendations and 39 research recommendations.
COMMENTARY: Italy's first National Guideline on dementia and MCI addresses 
diagnosis, treatment and care within the National Healthcare System. It includes 
recommendations on pharmacological and non-pharmacological approaches, and 
emphasises tailored interventions, comprehensive cognitive assessment, staff 
training and palliative care. The guideline also underlines the need to involve 
PwD in decision-making and supporting caregivers throughout the entire course of 
the disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Structured strategies for the dissemination and implementation of 
the guideline will be defined within the Italian Fund for Alzheimer and other 
Dementias 2024-2026. An interactive care pathway and a leaflet dedicated to PwD 
and their carers are already available. The guideline will be updated starting 
January 2027, but early updates may be planned in case of breakthrough 
advancements.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afae250
PMCID: PMC11564805
PMID: 39544104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


62. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(3):841-854. doi: 10.1177/13872877241291253.
Epub  2024 Nov 15.

Investigating the efficacy of ergothioneine to delay cognitive decline in mild 
cognitively impaired subjects: A pilot study.

Yau YF(1), Cheah IK(1)(2), Mahendran R(3)(4), Tang RM(1)(2), Chua RY(5), Goh 
RE(1), Feng L(5)(6), Li J(7), Kua EH(3)(4), Chen C(5)(6)(8)(9), Halliwell 
B(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Neurobiology Programme, Life Science Institute, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Mind Science Centre, Department of Psychological Medicine, National 
University Health System, Singapore.
(4)Mind Care Clinic Singapore, Farrer Park Medical Centre, Singapore.
(5)Healthy Longevity Translational Research Programme, Yong Loo Lin School of 
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore.
(6)Department of Psychological Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, 
National University of Singapore, Singapore.
(7)Department of Statistics and Data Science, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore.
(8)Department of Pharmacology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore.
(9)Memory Ageing and Cognition Centre, National University Health System, 
Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease, is a major healthcare 
challenge in ageing societies.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of a dietary 
compound, ergothioneine, in delaying cognitive decline in older individuals.
METHODS: Nineteen subjects aged 60 or above with mild cognitive impairment were 
recruited for this double-blinded, randomized, and placebo-controlled study 
(ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03641404, registration date: 19/08/2018). 
Subjects received either ergothioneine (25 mg per capsule) or a placebo, taken 3 
times a week for one year. The whole blood profile, markers of renal and liver 
functions, neurocognitive performance, plasma levels of ergothioneine and its 
metabolites, and plasma biomarkers related to neurodegeneration were measured 
across the study.
RESULTS: Ergothioneine intake did not alter clinical safety markers (blood 
counts, kidney and liver function) throughout the study, further validating its 
safety for human consumption. Subjects receiving ergothioneine demonstrated 
improved performance in assessment of learning ability and stabilized plasma 
levels of neurofilament light chain, compared with the placebo group, which saw 
no improvement in cognitive assessments and a significant increase in 
neurofilament light chain levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Prolonged intake of ergothioneine showed no toxicity in elderly 
people. Enhanced Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test performance and stabilized 
neurofilament light chain levels suggest improvements in memory and learning 
abilities and a deceleration of neuronal damage, respectively. Our results add 
to existing data that ergothioneine is safe for extended consumption and may 
hold the potential to delay cognitive decline in elderly adults.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241291253
PMID: 39544014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsL. Feng is 
an Editorial Board Member of this journal but was not involved in the 
peer-review process of this article nor had access to any information regarding 
its peer-review. The authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with 
respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


63. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(4):924-942. doi: 10.1177/13872877241295400.
Epub  2024 Nov 14.

Acupuncture for patients with Alzheimer's disease: An evidence map of randomized 
controlled trials, systematic reviews, and meta-analysis.

Ke C(1), Shan S(1), Yu J(1), Wei X(1), Pan J(1), Zhang W(1).

Author information:
(1)The First Hospital of Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, China.

Background: Acupuncture is an effective complementary treatment for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). This review aims to summarize the available evidence provided by 
randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and systematic reviews (SRs) or 
meta-analyses (MAs) on the effect of acupuncture on AD. Objective: To 
systematically summarize and combine clinical research evidence on AD 
distribution. Methods: We conducted a comprehensive search of various databases, 
including PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, China National Knowledge 
Infrastructure (CNKI), Wan Fang Data, Chinese BioMedical Literature Database 
(CBM) and Chonqing VIP (CQVIP), from their inception to September 2023. Relevant 
literature about acupuncture for AD was included, and the characteristics of the 
evidence map were presented through charts and textual analyses. Results: In 
total, 117 RCTs and 17 SRs or MAs were included. The results were divided into 
three categories: basic characteristics of the included literature, clinical 
characteristics and quality assessment of the included RCTs, and clinical 
characteristics and quality assessment of the included SRs and MAs. Conclusions: 
Acupuncture as a therapeutic measure for AD has some advantages in improving 
cognition and quality of life; thus, it is imperative to conduct multi-center, 
large-scale RCTs to enhance the evidence supporting the use of acupuncture in 
AD. This is the first evidence map exploring acupuncture treatment for AD, 
providing insights into the current clinical research landscape on acupuncture 
treatment for AD. Furthermore, the findings of this study highlight research 
gaps in this field and serve as a valuable reference for guiding the planning 
and selection of topics for future research.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241295400
PMID: 39544007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


64. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Nov;102(2):491-505. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240795. Epub 2024
 Nov 14.

Sexual dimorphism, altered hippocampal glutamatergic neurotransmission, and 
cognitive impairment in APP knock-in mice.

Findley CA(1)(2), McFadden SA(1), Hill T(1), Peck MR(1), Quinn K(1), Hascup 
KN(1)(2)(3), Hascup ER(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Institute, Dale and Deborah Smith Center for Alzheimer's 
Research and Treatment, Departments of Neurology, Southern Illinois University 
School of Medicine, Springfield, IL, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield, IL, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology, Immunology and Cell Biology, Southern 
Illinois University School of Medicine, Springfield, IL, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Jun 14:2023.12.05.570100. doi: 10.1101/2023.12.05.570100.

BACKGROUND: It is well established that glutamatergic neurotransmission plays an 
essential role in learning and memory. Previous studies indicate that glutamate 
dynamics shift with Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression, contributing to 
negative cognitive outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: In this study, we characterized hippocampal glutamatergic signaling 
with age and disease progression in a knock-in mouse model of AD 
(APPNL-F/NL--F).
METHODS: At 2-4 and 18+ months old, male and female APPNL/NL, APPNL-F/NL-F, and 
C57BL/6 mice underwent cognitive assessment using Morris water maze (MWM) and 
Novel Object Recognition (NOR). Then, basal and 70 mM KCl stimulus-evoked 
glutamate release was measured in the dentate gyrus (DG), CA3, and CA1 regions 
of the hippocampus using a glutamate-selective microelectrode in anesthetized 
mice.
RESULTS: Glutamate recordings support elevated stimulus-evoked glutamate release 
in the DG and CA3 of young APPNL-F/NL-F male mice that declined with age 
compared to age-matched control mice. Young female APPNL-F/NL-F mice exhibited 
increased glutamate clearance in the CA1 that slowed with age compared to 
age-matched control mice. Male and female APPNL-F/NL-F mice exhibited decreased 
CA1 basal glutamate levels, while males also showed depletion in the CA3. 
Cognitive assessment demonstrated impaired spatial cognition in aged male and 
female APPNL-F/NL-F mice, but only aged females displayed recognition memory 
deficits compared to age-matched control mice.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings confirm a sex-dependent hyper-to-hypoactivation 
glutamatergic paradigm in APPNL-F/NL-F mice. Further, data illustrate a sexually 
dimorphic biological aging process resulting in a more severe cognitive 
phenotype for female APPNL-F/NL-F mice than their male counterparts. Research 
outcomes mirror that of human AD pathology and provide further evidence of 
divergent AD pathogenesis between sexes.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240795
PMCID: PMC11639043
PMID: 39543985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


65. J Neuropsychol. 2025 Jun;19(2):165-171. doi: 10.1111/jnp.12401. Epub 2024 Nov
 14.

Alzheimer's disease-Biomarkers, clinical evaluation or both?

Simrén J(1)(2), Ashton NJ(1)(3)(4), Suárez-Calvet M(5)(6)(7), Zetterberg 
H(1)(2)(8)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(2)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(3)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(4)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(5)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Servei de Neurologia, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Institute of Neurology, UCL, London, 
UK.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute, UCL, London, UK.
(10)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(11)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/jnp.12401
PMCID: PMC12166650
PMID: 39543822

Conflict of interest statement: JS reports no conflicts of interest. NJA has 
served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Alamar 
Biosciences, Biogen, TauRx, TargetALS, Quanterix and has given lectures 
sponsored by BioArctic, Biogen, Lilly ad VJDementia. MS‐C has received in the 
past 36mo consultancy/speaker fees (paid to the institution) from by Almirall, 
Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche Diagnostics. He has received consultancy fees 
or served on advisory boards (paid to the institution) of Eli Lilly, Grifols and 
Roche Diagnostics. He was granted a project and is a site investigator of a 
clinical trial (funded to the institution) by Roche Diagnostics. In‐kind support 
for research (to the institution) was received from ADx Neurosciences, Alamar 
Biosciences, ALZPath, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Janssen 
Research & Development, Meso Scale Discovery, and Roche Diagnostics; MS‐C did 
not receive any personal compensation from these organizations or any other 
for‐profit organization. HZ has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a 
consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, 
Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given 
lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work).


66. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2024 Nov 14;15(1):428. doi: 10.1186/s13287-024-04015-5.

Endothelial progenitor cell-derived conditioned medium mitigates chronic 
cerebral ischemic injury through macrophage migration inhibitory 
factor-activated AKT pathway.

Cheng YW(1), Yang LY(1), Chen YT(1)(2), Chou SC(1)(2), Chen KW(1)(2), Chen 
YH(1)(2), Deng CR(1), Chen IC(1), Chou WJ(1)(2), Chang CC(3), Chen YR(4)(5), Hwa 
HL(6), Wang KC(7), Kuo MF(8).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University 
Hospital, No.7, Chung-Shan South Road, Taipei, 100, Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, National Taiwan University College 
of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, 
National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Non-Invasive Cancer Therapy Research Institute, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Adjunct Visiting Staff, Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, 
National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, National Taiwan University Hospital, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(7)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University 
Hospital, No.7, Chung-Shan South Road, Taipei, 100, Taiwan. 
wang081466@yahoo.com.tw.
(8)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University 
Hospital, No.7, Chung-Shan South Road, Taipei, 100, Taiwan. mfkenator@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Chronic cerebral ischemia (CCI) is a significant health issue 
characterized by hypoperfusion due to damage or occlusion of the cerebral or 
carotid arteries. CCI may lead to progressive cognitive impairment that is 
considered as a prelude to neurodegenerative diseases, including dementia and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) have been 
implicated in vascular repair in ischemic cerebrovascular diseases, primarily by 
differentiating into endothelial cells (ECs) or through paracrine effects. 
However, the clinical transplantation of stem cell therapies remains limited. In 
this study, we investigated the effects of EPC-derived conditioned medium 
(EPC-CM) on the impaired vasculature and neurological function in a rodent model 
of CCI and the mechanism involved.
METHODS: EPC-CM was analyzed by cytokine array to identify key factors involved 
in angiogenesis and cellular senescence. The effects and mechanism of the 
candidate factors in the EPC-CM were validated in vitro using oxygen-glucose 
deprivation (OGD)-injured ECs and EPCs. The therapeutic effects of EPC-CM and 
the identified key factor were further examined in a rat model of CCI, which was 
induced by bilateral internal carotid artery ligation (BICAL). EPC-CM was 
administered via intracisternal injection one week post BICAL. The cerebral 
microvasculature and neurobehavior of the rats were examined three weeks after 
BICAL.
RESULTS: Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) was identified as a key 
factor in the EPC-CM. Recombinant MIF protein promoted angiogenesis and 
prevented senescence in the injured EPCs and ECs. The effect was similar to that 
of the EPC-CM. These therapeutic effects were diminished when the EPC-CM was 
co-treated with MIF-specific antibody (Ab). Additionally, the vascular, motor, 
and cognitive improvements observed in the BICAL rats treated with EPC-CM were 
abolished by co-treated with MIF Ab. Furthermore, we found MIF promoted 
angiogenesis and anti-senescence via activating the AKT pathway. Inhibition of 
the AKT pathway diminished the protective effects of MIF in the in vitro study.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that EPC-CM protected the brain from chronic 
ischemic injury and promoted functional recovery through MIF-mediated AKT 
pathway. These findings suggest EPC-CM holds potential as a novel cell-free 
therapeutic approach for treating CCI through the actions of MIF.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13287-024-04015-5
PMCID: PMC11566597
PMID: 39543689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethics approval and consent to 
participate This animal experiments were conducted in accordance with the ARRIVE 
guidelines (Animal Research: Reporting of In Vivo Experiments) and was approved 
by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of National Taiwan University 
(Approval no. IACUC-20180430, date of approval: 08/01/2019). The EPCs were 
collected from fresh human umbilical cord blood and was approved by the 
Institutional Review Board of National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan (Study title: Platform establishment, validation, and biomarkers study in 
cerebrovascular diseases: using pediatric moyamoya disease as a pilot. Approval 
no. IRB-201204074RIC, date of approval: 07/04/2012; Study title: The 
pathophysiology of indirect revascularization in chronic cerebral 
ischemia-induced tauopathy: an in vitro, in vivo and clinical study. Approval 
no. IRB-202012174RIND, date of approval: 01/19/2021). All patients gave written 
informed consent for participation in the study and the use of samples. Consent 
for publication All the authors approved this manuscript to be published in the 
Journal Stem Cell Research & Therapy. Competing interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


67. BMC Neurol. 2024 Nov 14;24(1):445. doi: 10.1186/s12883-024-03930-7.

Highly prevalent geriatric medications and their effect on β-amyloid fibril 
formation.

Zaman Z(1), Islam R(1), Koganti B(1), Falki V(1), Osentoski T(1), Graham 
S(1)(2), Sharoar MG(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Corewell Health Research Institute, Corewell Health East, 3811 W 13 mile 
Road, Royal Oak, MI, 48073, USA.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oakland University William Beaumont 
School of Medicine, Corewell Health East, 3811 W 13 mile Road, Royal Oak, MI, 
48073, USA.
(3)Corewell Health Research Institute, Corewell Health East, 3811 W 13 mile 
Road, Royal Oak, MI, 48073, USA. MdGolam.Sharoar@corewellhealth.org.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Oakland University William Beaumont School 
of Medicine, Corewell Health East, 3811 W 13 mile Road, Royal Oak, MI, 48073, 
USA. MdGolam.Sharoar@corewellhealth.org.

BACKGROUND: The unprecedented increase in the older population and 
ever-increasing incidence of dementia are leading to a "silver tsunami" in 
upcoming decades. To combat multimorbidity and maintain daily activities, 
elderly people face a high prevalence of polypharmacy. However, how these 
medications affect dementia-related pathology, such as Alzheimer's β-amyloid 
(Aβ) fibrils formation, remains unknown. In the present study, we aimed to 
analyze the medication profiles of Alzheimer's disease (AD; n = 124), mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI; n = 114), and non-demented (ND; n = 228) patients to 
identify highly prevalent drugs and to determine the effects of those drugs on 
Aβ fibrils formation.
METHODS: Study subjects (≥ 65 years) were recruited from an academic geriatric 
practice that heavily focuses on memory disorders. The disease state was defined 
based on the score of multiple cognitive assessments. Individual medications for 
each subject were listed and categorized into 10 major drug classes. Statistical 
analysis was performed to determine the frequency of individual and collective 
drug classes, which are expressed as percentages of the respective cohorts. 10 
µM monomeric β-amyloid (Aβ) 42 and fibrillar Aβ (fAβ) were incubated for 6-48 h 
in the presence of 25 µM drugs. fAβ was prepared with a 1:10 ratio of Aβ42 to 
Aβ40. The amount of Aβ fibrils was monitored using a thioflavin T (Th-T) assay. 
Neuronal cells (N2A and SHSY-5Y) were treated with 25 µM drugs, and cell death 
was measured using a lactose dehydrogenase (LDH) assay.
RESULTS: We noticed a high prevalence (82-90%) of polypharmacy and diverse 
medication profiles including anti-inflammatory (65-77%), vitamin and mineral 
(64-72%), anti-cholesterol (33-41%), anti-hypersensitive (35-39%), proton pump 
inhibitor (23-34%), anti-thyroid (9-21%), anti-diabetic (5-13%), 
anti-constipation (9-11%), anti-coagulant (10-13%), and anti-insomnia (9-20%) 
drugs in the three cohorts. Our LDH assay with 18 highly prevalent drug 
components showed toxic effects of Norvasc, Tylenol, Colace, and Plavix on N2A 
cells, and of vitamin D and Novasc on SH-SY5Y cells. All these drugs except 
Colace significantly reduced the amount of Aβ fibril when incubated with Aβ42 
for a short period (6 h). However, Lipitor, vitamin D, Levothyroxine, Prilosec, 
Flomax, and Norvasc prominently reduce the amount of fibrils when incubated with 
monomeric Aβ42 for a longer period (48 h). Furthermore, our disaggregation study 
with fAβ showed consistent results for cholecalciferol (vitamin D), omeprazole 
(Prilosec), clopidogrel hydrogensulfate (Flomax), levothyroxine, and amlodipine 
(Norvasc). The chemical structures of these four efficient molecules contain 
polyphenol components, a characteristic feature of the structures of 
polyphenolic inhibitors of Aβ fibrillation.
CONCLUSION: A higher polypharmacy incidence was observed in an elderly 
population of 228 ND, 114 MCI, and 124 AD patients. We found that several highly 
recommended drug components, including vitamin D3, Levothyroxine, Prilosec, 
Flomax, and Norvasc, efficiently reduce the amount of fibrils formed by 
monomeric Aβ42 and existing preformed Aβ fibrils in vitro. However, only 
Levothyroxine was able to prevent Aβ-mediated toxicity to SH-SY5Y cells. Our 
study suggested that these drugs likely function as polyphenolic inhibitors of 
Aβ.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12883-024-03930-7
PMCID: PMC11562802
PMID: 39543530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Human Ethics and Consent to 
Participate The study was approved by the Human Investigation Committee of 
Corewell Health East (CHE) (formally William Beaumont Hospital), Royal Oak, MI, 
USA under an approved protocol by the Institutional Review Board 
(IRB#2017 − 214). The CHE Institutional Review Board is accredited by the 
Association for the Accreditation of Human Research Protection Programs and 
complies with Good Clinical Practice Guidelines as defined by the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration under the Code of Federal Regulations (21 CFR Parts 50 and 
56; 45 CFR Part 46) and International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) 
Guidelines (Section E6). Written consent was obtained from study participants or 
their legal representatives prior to obtaining the data. Competing interests The 
authors declare no competing interests.


68. BMC Bioinformatics. 2024 Nov 14;25(1):355. doi: 10.1186/s12859-024-05975-4.

Robust double machine learning model with application to omics data.

Wang X(#)(1), Liu Y(#)(1), Qin G(2)(3), Yu Y(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Key Laboratory of Public Health Safety of 
Ministry of Education, Key Laboratory for Health Technology Assessment, National 
Commission of Health, School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Key Laboratory of Public Health Safety of 
Ministry of Education, Key Laboratory for Health Technology Assessment, National 
Commission of Health, School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China. gyqin@fudan.edu.cn.
(3)Shanghai Institute of Infectious Disease and Biosecurity, Shanghai, China. 
gyqin@fudan.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Key Laboratory of Public Health Safety of 
Ministry of Education, Key Laboratory for Health Technology Assessment, National 
Commission of Health, School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China. yu@fudan.edu.cn.
(5)Shanghai Institute of Infectious Disease and Biosecurity, Shanghai, China. 
yu@fudan.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Recently, there has been a growing interest in combining causal 
inference with machine learning algorithms. Double machine learning model (DML), 
as an implementation of this combination, has received widespread attention for 
their expertise in estimating causal effects within high-dimensional complex 
data. However, the DML model is sensitive to the presence of outliers and 
heavy-tailed noise in the outcome variable. In this paper, we propose the robust 
double machine learning (RDML) model to achieve a robust estimation of causal 
effects when the distribution of the outcome is contaminated by outliers or 
exhibits symmetrically heavy-tailed characteristics.
RESULTS: In the modelling of RDML model, we employed median machine learning 
algorithms to achieve robust predictions for the treatment and outcome 
variables. Subsequently, we established a median regression model for the 
prediction residuals. These two steps ensure robust causal effect estimation. 
Simulation study show that the RDML model is comparable to the existing DML 
model when the data follow normal distribution, while the RDML model has obvious 
superiority when the data follow mixed normal distribution and t-distribution, 
which is manifested by having a smaller RMSE. Meanwhile, we also apply the RDML 
model to the deoxyribonucleic acid methylation dataset from the Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) neuroimaging initiative database with the aim of investigating the 
impact of Cerebrospinal Fluid Amyloid β 42 (CSF A β 42) on AD severity.
CONCLUSION: These findings illustrate that the RDML model is capable of robustly 
estimating causal effect, even when the outcome distribution is affected by 
outliers or displays symmetrically heavy-tailed properties.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12859-024-05975-4
PMCID: PMC11566156
PMID: 39543508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethics approval and consent to 
participate Not applicable. Consent for publication Not applicable. Competing 
interests No Conflict of interest is declared.


69. Nat Aging. 2024 Nov;4(11):1598-1618. doi: 10.1038/s43587-024-00730-z. Epub
2024  Nov 14.

Brain-wide alterations revealed by spatial transcriptomics and proteomics in 
COVID-19 infection.

Zhang T(1)(2)(3)(4), Li Y(5), Pan L(6)(7), Sha J(8), Bailey M(9), Faure-Kumar 
E(10), Williams CK(1)(2), Wohlschlegel J(8)(11), Magaki S(1)(12), Niu C(13), Lee 
Y(13), Su YC(13), Li X(12)(13), Vinters HV(14)(15)(16), Geschwind 
DH(17)(18)(19)(20).

Author information:
(1)Section of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, 
David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)Program in Neurogenetics, Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(5)Translational Pathology Core Laboratory, David Geffen School of Medicine, 
University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(6)Technology Access Program, Bruker Spatial Technology, Seattle, WA, USA.
(7)Duality Biologics, Shanghai, China.
(8)Proteome Research Center, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.
(9)Proof of Principle Team, Translational Science, Bruker Spatial Technology, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(10)Center for Systems Biomedicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(11)Department of Biological Chemistry, University of California, Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(12)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(13)Technology Center for Genomics & Bioinformatics, University of California, 
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(14)Section of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, 
David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA. hvinters@mednet.ucla.edu.
(15)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. hvinters@mednet.ucla.edu.
(16)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. 
hvinters@mednet.ucla.edu.
(17)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. dhg@mednet.ucla.edu.
(18)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. dhg@mednet.ucla.edu.
(19)Program in Neurogenetics, Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. 
dhg@mednet.ucla.edu.
(20)Institute for Precision Health, University of California, Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA. dhg@mednet.ucla.edu.

Understanding the pathophysiology of neurological symptoms observed after severe 
acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV2) infection is essential to 
optimizing outcomes and therapeutics. To date, small sample sizes and narrow 
molecular profiling have limited the generalizability of findings. In this 
study, we profiled multiple cortical and subcortical regions in postmortem 
brains of patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and controls with 
matched pulmonary pathology (total n = 42) using spatial transcriptomics, bulk 
gene expression and proteomics. We observed a multi-regional antiviral response 
without direct active SARS-CoV2 infection. We identified dysregulation of 
mitochondrial and synaptic pathways in deep-layer excitatory neurons and 
upregulation of neuroinflammation in glia, consistent across both mRNA and 
protein. Remarkably, these alterations overlapped substantially with changes in 
age-related neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease and 
Alzheimer's disease. Our work, combining multiple experimental and analytical 
methods, demonstrates the brain-wide impact of severe acute/subacute COVID-19, 
involving both cortical and subcortical regions, shedding light on potential 
therapeutic targets within pathways typically associated with pathological aging 
and neurodegeneration.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s43587-024-00730-z
PMCID: PMC11867587
PMID: 39543407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


70. Curr Top Behav Neurosci. 2025;69:107-127. doi: 10.1007/7854_2024_525.

The Contribution of the Renin-Angiotensin System to Alzheimer's Disease.

Güzel Ö(1)(2), Kehoe PG(3).

Author information:
(1)Cerebrovascular and Dementia Research Group, Bristol Medical School, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. ozge.guzel@alanya.edu.tr.
(2)Department of Genetics and Bioengineering, Alanya Alaaddin Keykubat 
University, Antalya, Türkiye. ozge.guzel@alanya.edu.tr.
(3)Cerebrovascular and Dementia Research Group, Bristol Medical School, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.

The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is becoming increasingly recognised as a 
biochemical pathway relevant to the development and progression of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). RAS involvement in AD was initially linked to AD via numerous 
genetic association studies and more recent Genome-Wide Association Studies 
(GWAS), and in some cases in relation to classical hallmarks of AD pathology. 
Since these initial findings, which will be summarised here, several 
complementary areas of research are converging in support of what has been 
proposed as the Angiotensin Hypothesis for Alzheimer's disease. This hypothesis 
proposes how the RAS and disease-associated changes to the normal balance 
between opposing regulatory pathways within RAS warrant careful consideration in 
the pathogenesis of AD and its pathology. We discuss some of these in relation 
to RAS-targeting therapeutics, originally developed for the treatment of 
cardiovascular conditions, and how they might be repurposed as interventions for 
AD.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/7854_2024_525
PMID: 39543022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Neurol Sci. 2025 Feb;46(2):549-560. doi: 10.1007/s10072-024-07880-3. Epub
2024  Nov 15.

Excitatory amino acids as therapeutic agents: Reversing neurodegenerative 
trajectory by tackling excitotoxicity.

Dhurandhar Y(1), Tomar S(2), Namdeo KP(1), Bodakhe SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Guru Ghasidas Vishwavidyalaya (A Central University), 
Bilaspur Chhattisgarh, 495009, India.
(2)National Coordination Centre, Pharmacovigilance Programme of India, Indian 
Pharmacopoeia Commission, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of 
India, Sector 23, Rajnagar, Ghaziabad, 201002, Uttar Pradesh, India. 
subhamt227@gmail.com.

Neurodegenerative diseases pose significant challenges to healthcare systems 
globally due to their complex etiology and relentless progression, often 
rendering conventional treatments ineffective. Recent advances have spotlighted 
excitatory amino acids, particularly D-amino acids, once considered as products 
of metabolism of the microbiota or deriving from food intake. This review 
explores the role of D-amino acids in mitigating excitotoxicity-a process 
characterized by excessive calcium influx through aberrant N-methyl-D-aspartate 
receptor (NMDAR) activation, which is implicated in the pathogenesis of diseases 
like Alzheimer's disease. By providing alternative pathways for neuronal 
signaling and protecting against excitotoxic damage, D-amino acids offer a novel 
approach to reversing neurodegenerative trajectories. Future research should 
focus on elucidating the detailed mechanisms of action of these compounds, 
evaluating their therapeutic potential through rigorous preclinical and clinical 
trials, and developing effective delivery systems to optimize their 
neuroprotective effects. This emerging field holds promise for developing 
innovative treatment strategies that could significantly improve outcomes for 
patients with neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2024. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-024-07880-3
PMID: 39542999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations: All authors read and approved the 
manuscript, and the manuscript has not been submitted elsewhere nor published in 
whole or in part. Ethical approval: Not applicable. Human and animal rights: Not 
applicable. Informed consent: Not applicable. Conflict of interests: The authors 
have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


72. Histochem Cell Biol. 2024 Nov 14;163(1):2. doi: 10.1007/s00418-024-02331-8.

Novel role of curcumin as inhibitor of β-amyloid-induced lamin fragmentation.

Hossain MS(1)(2), Haque MA(3)(4)(5), Park IS(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chosun University, Gwangju, 61452, 
Republic of Korea. mdshossain@augusta.edu.
(2)Department of Vascular Biology Center, Medical College of Georgia at Augusta 
University, Augusta, GA, 30912, USA. mdshossain@augusta.edu.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chosun University, Gwangju, 61452, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)School of Pharmacy, BRAC University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(5)Rufaida BioMeds, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chosun University, Gwangju, 61452, 
Republic of Korea. parkis@chosun.ac.kr.
(7)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Chosun University, Gwangju, 
61452, Republic of Korea. parkis@chosun.ac.kr.

Oligomer amyloid beta 42 (Aβ) is considered the key pathogenic molecule in 
Alzheimer disease (AD) and causes specific lamin fragmentation. Curcumin has 
been recognized for its protective effects against Aβ-induced toxicity in AD, 
though its underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, the inhibitory 
mechanism of curcumin against Aβ-induced lamin fragmentation and cell death was 
investigated. Human neuroblastoma cells were used to examine Aβ-induced lamin 
fragmentation and lamin deformation by immunoblotting and confocal microscopy, 
while cell viability was measured using MTT and alamarBlue assay. Caspase and 
cathepsin L activity were assessed by spectrofluorometry, and Aβ aggregation was 
evaluated by ThT assay. Our results demonstrated that curcumin inhibited Aβ 
aggregation, reducing intracellular Aβ uptake by 45% compared to Aβ-treated 
cells. Curcumin also inhibited the Aβ-induced intracellular calcium rise, 
subsequently leading to a onefold reduction in cathepsin L activity. This 
reduction in cathepsin L activity by curcumin blocked the Aβ-induced lamin 
fragmentation. Collectively, these findings suggest that curcumin inhibits 
Aβ-induced cell death by preventing Aβ entry and lamin cleavage, providing 
potential new insights for AD treatment.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00418-024-02331-8
PMID: 39542878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Conflict of interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


73. J Nucl Med. 2025 Jan 3;66(1):110-116. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.124.268119.

Quantification Supports Amyloid PET Visual Assessment of Challenging Cases: 
Results from the AMYPAD Diagnostic and Patient Management Study.

Collij LE(1)(2)(3), Bischof GN(4)(5), Altomare D(6), Bader I(7)(8), Battle M(9), 
Vállez García D(10)(2), Lopes Alves I(11), Wolz R(12), Gismondi R(13), Stephens 
A(13), Walker Z(14), Scheltens P(15), Nordberg A(16)(17), Gispert 
JD(18)(19)(20)(21), Drzezga A(4)(5)(22), Perissinotti A(21)(23), Morbelli 
S(24)(25), Buckley C(9), Garibotto V(26)(27)(28), Frisoni GB(29)(30), Farrar 
G(9), Barkhof F; AMYPAD Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije 
Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; l.collij@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Brain Imaging, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Faculty 
of Medicine, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital 
Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(5)Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine, Molecular Organization of the Brain, 
Forschungszentrum Jülich, Jülich, Germany.
(6)Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University of Brescia, 
Brescia, Italy.
(7)Department of Neurology, Alzheimercenter, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(9)GE HealthCare, Amersham, United Kingdom.
(10)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije 
Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(11)Brain Research Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(12)IXICO Plc, London, United Kingdom.
(13)Life Molecular Imaging GmbH, Berlin, Germany.
(14)Division of Psychiatry, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University College 
London, London, United Kingdom.
(15)LSP Life Sciences, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(16)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department 
of Neurobiology, Care Sciences, and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(17)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(18)Barcelonaßeta Brain Research Center, Pasqual Maragall Foundation, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(19)IMIM, Barcelona, Spain.
(20)Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain.
(21)Biomedical Research Networking Center of Bioengineering, Biomaterials, and 
Nanomedicine, Carlos III Health Institute, Madrid, Spain.
(22)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Bonn-Cologne, Germany.
(23)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Hospital Clinic, August Pi i Sunyer 
Institute of Biomedical Research, Barcelona, Spain.
(24)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.
(25)Nuclear Medicine Unit, Città della Salute e della Scienza di Torino, Turin, 
Italy.
(26)Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Geneva University 
Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(27)Department of Radiology and Medical Informatics, University of Geneva, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(28)Center for Biomedical Imaging, Geneva, Switzerland.
(29)Laboratory of Neuroimaging of Aging, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(30)Geneva Memory Center, Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland; and.

Several studies have demonstrated strong agreement between routine clinical 
visual assessment and quantification, suggesting that quantification approaches 
could support assessment by less experienced readers or in challenging cases. 
However, all studies to date have implemented a retrospective case collection, 
and challenging cases were generally underrepresented. Methods: We included all 
participants (n = 741) from the AMYPAD diagnostic and patient management study 
with available baseline amyloid PET quantification. Quantification was done with 
the PET-only AmyPype pipeline, providing global Centiloid and regional z scores. 
Visual assessment was performed by local readers for the entire cohort. From the 
total cohort, we selected a subsample of 85 cases for which the amyloid status 
based on the local reader's visual assessment and the Centiloid classification 
(cutoff = 21) was discordant or that were assessed with low confidence (i.e., ≤3 
on a 5-point scale) by the local reader. In addition, concordant negative (n = 
8) and positive (n = 8) scans across tracers were selected. In this sample (n = 
101 cases; [18F]flutemetamol, n = 48; [18F]florbetaben, n = 53), the visual 
assessments and corresponding confidence by 5 certified independent central 
readers were captured before and after disclosure of the quantification results. 
Results: For the whole AMYPAD diagnostic and patient management study cohort, 
overall assessment by local readers highly agreed with Centiloid status (κ = 
0.85, 92.3% agreement). This was consistently observed within disease stages 
(subjective cognitive decline-plus, κ = 0.82, 92.3% agreement; mild cognitive 
impairment, κ = 0.80, 89.8% agreement; dementia, κ = 0.87, 94.6% agreement). 
Across all central reader assessments in the challenging subsample, 
quantification of global Centiloid and regional z scores was considered 
supportive of visual reads in 70.3% and 49.3% of assessments, respectively. 
After disclosure of the quantitative results, we observed improvement in 
concordance across the 5 readers (baseline κ = 0.65, 65.3% agreement; κ after 
disclosure = 0.74, 73.3% agreement) and a significant increase in reader 
confidence (baseline mean (M) = 4.0 vs. M after disclosure = 4.34, Wilcoxon 
statistic (W) = 101,056, P < 0.001). Conclusion: In this clinical study enriched 
for challenging amyloid PET cases, we demonstrate the value of quantification to 
support visual assessment. After disclosure, both interreader agreement and 
confidence showed significant improvement. These results are important 
considering the arrival of antiamyloid therapies, which used the Centiloid 
metric for trial inclusion and target engagement. Moreover, quantification could 
support determination of amyloid-β status with high certainty, an important 
factor for treatment initiation.

© 2025 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.124.268119
PMCID: PMC11705786
PMID: 39542700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Jan 5;986:177099. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.177099.
Epub  2024 Nov 13.

Ellagic acid(EA) ameliorates Alzheimer's disease by reducing Aβ levels, 
oxidative stress and attenuating inflammation.

Li Y(1), Zhang J(1), Zhang L(1), Hu C(1), Zhou L(1), Cheng Y(2), Liu Q(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education, Center on 
Translational Neuroscience, School of Pharmacy, Minzu University of China, 
Beijing, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education, Center on 
Translational Neuroscience, School of Pharmacy, Minzu University of China, 
Beijing, China; Institute of National Security, Minzu University of China, 
Beijing, China; College of Life and Environmental Sciences, Minzu University of 
China, Beijing, China. Electronic address: yongcheng@muc.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education, Center on 
Translational Neuroscience, School of Pharmacy, Minzu University of China, 
Beijing, China. Electronic address: nlqsh@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Ellagic acid (EA) serves as a pivotal coenzyme for various 
dehydrogenases, influencing diverse biological processes. Recognized for its 
potential in impeding disease progression, EA's effectiveness and mechanism in 
treating 5xFAD remain elusive.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aims to investigate EA's potential roles and 
underlying mechanisms in mitigating symptoms associated with 5xFAD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 5 × FAD mice underwent a 12-week EA treatment regimen. 
The efficacy of EA against 5 × FAD was assessed through in vivo experiments, 
including Morris water maze and contextual fear conditioning tests for learning 
and memory abilities. Immunofluorescence (IF) and thioflavin staining examined 
changes in Aβ/neurons in brain tissue. RT‒qPCR evaluated inflammatory cytokine 
expression, while Bcl2/Bax protein levels were analyzed via Western blot (WB).
RESULTS: EA demonstrates promise in alleviating symptoms associated with 5xFAD. 
It significantly reduced the mice's escape latency in the Morris water maze, 
increased the frequency of crossings in the target quadrant, and prolonged 
freezing time in the contextual fear memory test. EA also improved neuronal 
pathology in the hippocampus and cortex, decreased neuronal loss, and reduced Aβ 
levels. Moreover, EA significantly increased MDA and SOD levels, effectively 
modulated the Bcl2/Bax ratio, and decreased the production of proinflammatory 
factors in brain tissue of 5xFAD model mice.
IN CONCLUSION: Our findings highlight the potential therapeutic efficacy of EA 
in addressing 5xFAD-related nervous system disorders by targeting Aβ levels, 
oxidative stress, and inflammation.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2024.177099
PMID: 39542412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


75. Neuroscience. 2024 Dec 17;563:148-166. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.11.020.  Epub 2024 Nov 13.

Dietary interventions in mitigating the impact of environmental pollutants on 
Alzheimer's disease - A review.

Khandayataray P(1), Murthy MK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Academy of Management and Information 
Technology, Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 752057, India.
(2)Department of Allied Health Sciences, Chitkara School of Health Sciences, 
Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab 140401, India. Electronic address: 
krishnameesala6@gmail.com.

Numerous studies linking environmental pollutants to oxidative stress, 
inflammation, and neurotoxicity have assigned pollutants to several 
neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Heavy metals, 
pesticides, air pollutants, and endocrine disruptor chemicals have been shown to 
play important roles in AD development, with some traditional functions in 
amyloid-β formation, tau kinase action, and neuronal degeneration. However, 
pharmacological management and supplementation have resulted in limited 
improvement. This raises the interesting possibility that activities usually 
considered preventive, including diet, exercise, or mental activity, might be 
more similar to treatment or therapy for AD. This review focuses on the effects 
of diet on the effects of environmental pollutants on AD. One of the primary 
issues addressed in this review is a group of specific diets, including the 
Mediterranean diet (MeDi), Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH), and 
Mediterranean-DASH intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND), which 
prevent exposure to these toxins. Such diets have been proven to decrease 
oxidative stress and inflammation, which are unfavorable for neuronal growth. 
Furthermore, they contribute to positive changes in the composition of the human 
gut microbiota and thus encourage interactions in the Gut-Brain Axis, reducing 
inflammation caused by pollutants. This review emphasizes a multi-professional 
approach with reference to nutritional activities that would lower the 
neurotoxic load in populations with a high level of exposure to pollutants. 
Future studies focusing on diet and environment association plans may help 
identify preventive measures aimed at enhancing current disease deceleration.

Copyright © 2024 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.11.020
PMID: 39542342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


76. Biochem Pharmacol. 2024 Dec;230(Pt 3):116622. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2024.116622.
 Epub 2024 Nov 13.

3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid methyl ester isolated from Polygala tenuifolia 
enhances hippocampal LTP through PKA and calcium-permeable AMPA receptor.

Lee Y(1), Jeon J(2), Son SR(3), Cho E(4), Moon S(5), Park AY(6), Chae HJ(7), Bae 
HJ(8), Moon M(9), Jeon SJ(10), Jang DS(11), Kim DH(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Advanced Translational Medicine, Graduate School, Konkuk 
University, 120 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: yehee224@naver.com.
(2)Department of Advanced Translational Medicine, Graduate School, Konkuk 
University, 120 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: ji6785@naver.com.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Graduate School, Kyung 
Hee University, Seoul, 02447, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
allosori@khu.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Advanced Translational Medicine, Graduate School, Konkuk 
University, 120 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: bee2634@naver.com.
(5)Department of Advanced Translational Medicine, Graduate School, Konkuk 
University, 120 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: ans5346@naver.com.
(6)Department of Advanced Translational Medicine, Graduate School, Konkuk 
University, 120 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: khg99665@naver.com.
(7)Department of Advanced Translational Medicine, Graduate School, Konkuk 
University, 120 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: b304853@naver.com.
(8)Agriculture and Life Science Research Institute, Kangwon National University, 
Chuncheon 24341, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: baehj321@kangwon.ac.kr.
(9)Department of Biochemistry, College of Medicine, Konyang University, Daejeon 
35365, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: hominmoon@konyang.ac.kr.
(10)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, Hallym University, Gangwon, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: sjinjeon@hallym.ac.kr.
(11)Department of Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Graduate School, Kyung 
Hee University, Seoul, 02447, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
dsjang@khu.ac.kr.
(12)Department of Advanced Translational Medicine, Graduate School, Konkuk 
University, 120 Neungdong-ro, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea; 
Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, Konkuk University, Chungju 
27478, Republic of Korea; Institute of Biomedical Sciences & Technology, Konkuk 
University, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
mose79@kku.ac.kr.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a degenerative brain disorder characterized by 
progressive cognitive decline and neuronal death due to extracellular deposition 
of amyloid β (Aβ) and intracellular deposition of tau proteins. Recently 
approved antibody drugs targeting Aβ have been shown to slow the progression of 
the disease, but they have minimal effects on cognitive improvement. Therefore, 
there is a need to develop drugs with cognitive-enhancing effects that can be 
used in conjunction with these antibody treatments. In this study, we 
investigated whether Polygala tenuifolia (PT), traditionally known for its 
cognitive-enhancing effects, can improve synaptic plasticity and identified its 
active components and mechanisms. PT demonstrated a dose-dependent effect in 
enhancing long-term potentiation (LTP), and among its components, 
3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid methyl ester (TMCA) showed a similar LTP-enhancing 
effect. TMCA increased the phosphorylation of the GluA1 subunit of the 
α-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors and increased the 
amount of GluA1 on the synapse without affecting the amount of GluA2. 
Additionally, the increase in GluA1 induced by TMCA was inhibited by a PKA 
inhibitor. Consistent with these results, the enhancement of LTP by TMCA was 
inhibited by a GluA1 antagonist and a PKA inhibitor. In silico molecular docking 
experiments confirmed that TMCA binds to PKA. Finally, we confirmed the 
LTP-enhancing effect of TMCA in hippocampal slices from 5XFAD mice. These 
results suggest that PT and its active component, TMCA, can interact with PKA to 
enhance LTP, indicating the potential for improving cognitive function in AD 
patients.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2024.116622
PMID: 39542183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


77. Ageing Res Rev. 2024 Dec;102:102579. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102579. Epub
2024  Nov 13.

Progress in the mechanisms of pain associated with neurodegenerative diseases.

Tian Z(1), Zhang Q(2), Wang L(3), Li M(2), Li T(4), Wang Y(5), Cao Z(6), Jiang 
X(7), Luo P(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China. Electronic address: zhichengt@163.com.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China; The Fifth Regiment, School of Basic Medicine, 
Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China.
(3)Xi'an Children's Hospital, Xi'an 710002, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China; College of Life Sciences, Northwest 
University, Xi'an 710069, China.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China; The Sixth Regiment, School of Basic Medicine, 
Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China. Electronic address: jiangxf@fmmu.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China. Electronic address: pengluo@fmmu.edu.cn.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) represent a class of neurological disorders 
characterized by the progressive degeneration or loss of neurons, impacting 
millions of individuals globally. In addition to the typical manifestations, 
pain is a prevalent symptom associated with NDDs, seriously impacting the 
quality of life for patients. The pathogenesis of pain associated with NDDs is 
intricate and multifaceted. Currently, the clinical management of NDDs-related 
pain symptoms predominantly relies on conventional pharmacological agents or 
physical therapy. However, these approaches often fail to produce satisfactory 
outcomes. This article summarizes the underlying mechanisms of major 
NDDs-associated pain: Neuroinflammation, Brain and spinal cord dysfunctions, 
Mitochondrial dysfunction, Risk gene and pathological protein, as well as 
Receptor, channel, and neurotransmitter. While numerous studies have 
investigated the downstream pathological processes associated with these 
mechanisms, there remains a significant gap in identifying the key initiating 
factors. Specifically, there is insufficient evidence for the upstream elements 
that activate microglia and astrocytes in neuroinflammation leading to pain in 
NDDs. Likewise, there is an absence of upstream factors elucidating how 
dysfunctions in the brain and spinal cord, as well as mitochondrial impairments, 
contribute to the development of pain. Furthermore, the specific mechanisms 
through which hallmark pathological proteins related to NDDs contribute to these 
pathological processes remain inadequately understood. The objective of this 
article is to synthesize the existing mechanisms underlying pain associated with 
NDDs, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, 
Schizophrenia, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Multiple sclerosis, while also 
identifying gaps and deficiencies in these mechanisms. This paper offers 
insights for future research trajectories. Given the intricate pathogenesis of 
NDDs-related pain, it emphasizes that a promising short-term strategy is 
combination therapy-intervening concurrently in multiple pathological 
processes-akin to the cocktail approach utilized in treating acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). For long-term advancements, achieving 
breakthroughs in the treatment of the NDDs themselves will remain essential for 
alleviating accompanying pain symptoms.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102579
PMID: 39542176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


78. Contemp Clin Trials. 2024 Dec;147:107742. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2024.107742.
Epub  2024 Nov 13.

Keep it Movin': Design and methods of a church-based physical activity program 
to improve physical function among midlife and older black adults.

Lange-Maia BS(1), Deckard A(2), Dugan SA(3), Cartwright Y(2), Epting SM(4), 
Jenkins L(2), Suzuki S(2), Press VG(5), Rothschild SK(2), Lynch EB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA; Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical 
Center, Chicago, IL, USA. Electronic address: Brittney_Lange-Maia@Rush.edu.
(2)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Rush University Medical 
Center, Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA; Hope Community Church, Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Older Black adults have high rates of physical function (PF) 
limitations. Physical activity (PA) is effective for improving PF and reducing 
mobility disability risk; however, community-based PA interventions focused on 
improving PF for older Black adults are lacking. Given the importance of 
churches as trusted institutions in Black communities, church-based 
interventions developed through community collaborations may help increase 
access to PA interventions.
METHODS: Keep it Movin' is a church-based cluster randomized controlled trial 
testing the effectiveness of a 24-week group-based (intervention arm) versus a 
self-guided (comparator arm) program in improving PF among Black adults aged ≥ 
40 years with PF limitations (short physical performance battery [SPPB] 
score ≤ 9). A church-wide virtual walking program is available to congregants in 
both arms. The intervention arm receives weekly group-based classes held at the 
church that include education, goal setting, and structured PA (walking, 
lower-extremity strength, balance, and stretching). The comparator arm receives 
educational materials about PA appropriate for people with PF limitations. 
Outcomes are assessed at 6 (program completion) and 12 months (maintenance). The 
primary outcome is PF change as measured by the SPPB at 6 months. Secondary 
outcomes include change in moderate-to-vigorous PA, social support and 
self-efficacy for PA, quality of life, and self-reported PF. Factors related to 
successful adoption, implementation, and maintenance are assessed using the 
Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance (RE-AIM) 
framework.
CONCLUSION: This is the first study to evaluate the effectiveness of a 
group-based PA program delivered in Black churches to improve PF.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2024.107742
PMCID: PMC11620914
PMID: 39542132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Author VGP reports consultation 
fees from Humana on patient education. Other authors have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could influence the work 
reported in this paper.


79. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2025 Jan;26(1):105351. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2024.105351. 
Epub 2024 Nov 12.

Person Profile Dementia Intervention in Long-Term Care: A Stepped-Wedge 
Cluster-Randomized Trial.

Spichiger F(1), Koppitz AL(2), Riese F(3), Kipfer S(2), Nagl-Cupal M(4), Büscher 
A(5), Volken T(6), Larkin P(7), Meichtry A(8).

Author information:
(1)University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Western Switzerland HES-SO 
Fribourg, School of Health Sciences, Institute of Applied Health Research, 
Fribourg, Switzerland; University of Lausanne, Institute of Higher Education and 
Research in Healthcare, Lausanne, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
frank.spichiger@hefr.ch.
(2)University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Western Switzerland HES-SO 
Fribourg, School of Health Sciences, Institute of Applied Health Research, 
Fribourg, Switzerland.
(3)URPP Dynamics of Healthy Aging, University of Zurich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Nursing Science, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(5)Osnabrück University of Applied Sciences, Fakultät Wirtschafts- und 
Sozialwissenschaften, Osnabrück, Germany; Deutsches Netzwerk für 
Qualitätsentwicklung in der Pflege (DNQP), Hochschule Osnabrück, Osnabrück, 
Germany.
(6)Independent researcher, Winterthur, Switzerland.
(7)Lausanne University Hospital, University of Lausanne, Palliative and 
Supportive Care Service, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(8)School of Health Professions, Bern University of Applied Sciences, Bern, 
Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: We aimed to assess the efficacy of a person-centered care 
intervention in improving quality of life (QoL) for people with dementia in 
long-term care facilities.
DESIGN: This study was a stepped-wedge cluster-randomized clinical trial of 
monthly person-centered outcome measurements, followed by collaborative 
nurse-led person profile interventions involving nursing staff and family 
members, compared with monthly person-centered outcome measurements alone.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: We included people with a medical diagnosis of 
Alzheimer's disease or vascular dementia or with clinical symptoms of dementia 
from 23 long-term care facilities in the German-speaking part of Switzerland.
METHODS: The primary outcome was QoL, as assessed using the QUALIDEM. Secondary 
outcomes were the QUALIDEM subscales and the Integrated Palliative Care Outcome 
Scale for People with Dementia subscales. The study duration was 15 months, and 
linear mixed-effect models were used for the analysis.
RESULTS: We recruited 240 people with dementia from 23 long-term care 
facilities. Modeling 1143 observations, we found a statistically significant 
positive intervention effect of 2.6 points according to the QUALIDEM (95% CI, 
1.34-3.86; P < .001; total QUALIDEM intervention: 67; 95% CI, 64.8-69.1 vs 64.4; 
95% CI, 62.3-66.4 for the control). We also found positive effects of the 
intervention on all secondary outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Once-a-month person profile interventions based on 
person-centered outcome measurements provided a small but significant 
improvement in QoL. Thus, our findings suggest a potential benefit to the 
broader implementation of person profiles involving nursing staff and family 
members in long-term care facilities.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2024.105351
PMID: 39542035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors declare no conflicts of 
interest.


80. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 2025 Jul;38(4):275-285. doi: 
10.1177/08919887241302110. Epub 2024 Nov 14.

An SBM and TBSS Analysis in Early-stage Patients With Alzheimer's Disease, Lewy 
Body Dementias, and Corticobasal Syndrome.

Giannakis A(1), Vartholomatos E(2), Astrakas L(3), Anyfantis E(4), Tatsioni 
A(5), Argyropoulou M(2), Konitsiotis S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece.
(2)Department of Radiology, School of Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece.
(3)Department of Medical Physics, School of Health Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece.
(4)Department of Speech and Language Therapy, School of Health Sciences, 
University of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Health Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece.

ObjectiveTo compare gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) changes in patients 
with Alzheimer's disease (AD), Lewy body dementias (LBD), corticobasal syndrome 
(CBS), and healthy controls (HC).MethodsSurface-based morphometry (SBM) was 
assessed on 3D T1-weighted images using FreeSurfer image analysis and WM 
microstructure was studied using Tract-Based Spatial Statistics (TBSS) in 12 AD, 
15 LBD, 10 CBS patients, and 10 HC.ResultsPatients with AD, compared with HC, 
exhibited reduced cortical surface area and volume in the superior frontal, 
middle frontal, and medial orbitofrontal cortex. In TBSS, AD patients, compared 
with HC and LBD, displayed decreased fractional anisotropy, axial diffusivity, 
and increased radial diffusivity in all major WM tracts. Other comparisons 
between the groups yielded no differences, either in the SBM or the TBSS 
analysis.ConclusionsThe results indicate significant early structural changes in 
the GM of the frontal lobe, along with WM alterations early in AD patients.

DOI: 10.1177/08919887241302110
PMID: 39541987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


81. Phytomedicine. 2024 Dec;135:156229. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156229. Epub
2024  Nov 10.

Gastrodin reduces Aβ brain levels in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model by 
inhibiting P-glycoprotein ubiquitination.

Zhu C(1), Wang S(1), Ma S(1), Zhang S(1), Wang Y(1), Li B(1), Zhang W(2), Sun 
Z(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing 102488, PR China.
(2)Chinese Herbal Medicine Industry Development Center of Ningqiang County, 
Hanzhong 724400, PR China.
(3)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing 102488, PR China. Electronic address: szrbucm67@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Studies have demonstrated the potential of gastrodin in the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), however, its mechanism of action remains 
elusive. Currently, the Amyloid-β (Aβ) cascade hypothesis continues to be the 
prevailing theory regarding AD etiology. The ubiquitination of P-glycoprotein 
(P-gp) at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) contributes to the accumulation of Aβ in 
the brain during AD.
PURPOSE: To investigate the mechanism of gastrodin intervention in AD.
METHODS: The molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and microscale 
thermophoresis (MST) were employed to identify the action target of gastrodin. 
The western blot (WB) was performed to detect the protein expression level, the 
ubiquitination level of P-gp was determined using co-immunoprecipitation (CO-IP) 
assay. P-gp transport activity was detected using an NBD-CSA fluorescence assay. 
Trans-Epithelial Electrical Resistance (TEER) was used to detect cell 
resistance. Fluorescein-labeled dextran experiments were performed to determine 
the individual cell permeability. The immunofluorescence (IF) was employed to 
detect Aβ deposition, the Morris Water Maze test was used to assess behavioral 
changes in APP/PS1 mice and the levels of Aβ40 and Aβ42 expression were 
quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
RESULTS: The FBXO15 was the target of gastrodin-mediated inhibition of P-gp 
ubiquitination. Gastrodin increased the P-gp expression, cell resistance, and 
P-gp transport activity of BEND.3 cells upon treatment with Aβ40 through 
mechanisms involving the reduction of FBXO15 and P-gp binding and the inhibition 
of P-gp ubiquitination. And gastrodin could effectively improve memory function 
and increase number of neurons in APP/PS1 mice, reduce the accumulation of Aβ40 
and Aβ42, and enhance P-gp expression in a dose-dependent manner.
CONCLUSION: Aβ40 induces the ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of BBB 
P-gp, however, gastrodin inhibits the ubiquitination of P-gp by binding to 
FBXO15, thereby increasing P-gp protein expression and enhancing its transport 
function.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156229
PMID: 39541666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


82. Sleep Med. 2024 Dec;124:704-716. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2024.11.009. Epub 2024
Nov  9.

mCLAS adaptively rescues disease-specific sleep and wake phenotypes in 
neurodegeneration.

Dias I(1), Baumann CR(2), Noain D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zurich (USZ), Switzerland; 
Department of Health Sciences and Technology (D-HEST), ETH Zurich, Switzerland; 
Neuroscience Center Zurich (ZNZ), Switzerland. Electronic address: 
ines.antunesdossantosdias@usz.ch.
(2)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zurich (USZ), Switzerland; 
Neuroscience Center Zurich (ZNZ), Switzerland; Center of Competence Sleep and 
Health, University of Zurich (UZH), Switzerland. Electronic address: 
christian.baumann@usz.ch.
(3)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zurich (USZ), Switzerland; 
Neuroscience Center Zurich (ZNZ), Switzerland; Center of Competence Sleep and 
Health, University of Zurich (UZH), Switzerland. Electronic address: 
daniela.noain@usz.ch.

Sleep alterations are hallmarks of prodromal Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's 
disease (PD), with fundamental neuropathological processes of both diseases 
showing susceptibility of change upon deep sleep modulation. However, promising 
pharmacological deep sleep enhancement results are hindered by specificity and 
scalability issues, thus advocating for noninvasive slow-wave activity (SWA) 
boosting methods to investigate the links between deep sleep and 
neurodegeneration. Accordingly, we have recently introduced mouse closed-loop 
auditory stimulation (mCLAS), which is able to successfully boost SWA during 
deep sleep in neurodegeneration models. Here, we aim at further exploring mCLAS' 
acute effect onto disease-specific sleep and wake alterations in AD (Tg2576) and 
PD (M83) mice. We found that mCLAS adaptively rescues pathological sleep and 
wake traits depending on the disease-specific impairments observed at baseline 
in each model. Notably, in AD mice mCLAS significantly increases NREM long/short 
bout ratio, decreases vigilance state distances by decreasing transition 
velocities and increases the percentage of cumulative time spent in NREM sleep 
in the last 3h of the dark period. Contrastingly, in PD mice mCLAS significantly 
decreases NREM sleep consolidation, by potentiating faster and more frequent 
transitions between vigilance states, decreases average EMG muscle tone during 
REM sleep and increases alpha power in WAKE and NREM sleep. Overall, our results 
indicate that mCLAS selectively prompts an acute alleviation of 
neurodegeneration-associated sleep and wake phenotypes, by either potentiating 
sleep consolidation and vigilance state stability in AD or by rescuing 
bradysomnia and decreasing cortical hyperexcitability in PD. Further experiments 
assessing the electrophysiological, neuropathological and behavioural long-term 
effects of mCLAS in neurodegeneration may majorly impact the clinical 
establishment of sleep-based therapies.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleep.2024.11.009
PMID: 39541605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interests.


83. Neuropsychology. 2025 Jan;39(1):54-64. doi: 10.1037/neu0000968. Epub 2024 Nov
 14.

Affliction class moderates the dementing impact of adipokines.

Royall DR(1), Palmer RF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Health Science Center.
(2)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of Texas Health 
Science Center.

OBJECTIVE: Biomarker-specific interventions (e.g., for dementia) will 
necessitate an individualized approach to treatment. We have constructed a 
psychometric classifier to identify persons adversely impacted by plasma 
adipokines.
METHOD: The subjects (N = 1,737) of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative were assigned to groups "afflicted" by versus "resilient" against the 
unique effect of plasma adipokines using a classifier derived by confirmatory 
factor analysis in a structural equation model framework. The impact of 
affliction class above and beyond observed biomarker levels and covariates was 
tested by multivariate regression using CDR "Sum of Boxes" as the dependent 
variable. The affliction class' moderation of adipokines' effect was tested by 
chi-square difference. The effect of affliction class on prospective conversion 
risk was tested by Cox's proportional hazards models.
RESULTS: Seven hundred four out of the 1,737 subjects (40.53%) were assigned to 
the afflicted class. The afflicted subjects had greater dementia severity, lower 
(adverse) Adipokines factor composite scores (by analysis of variance, F(1, 
1,735) 2619.68, p < .001) and higher observed levels of plasma adipokines (by 
Tukey's honestly significant difference test, all p < .001). Adipokines' 
association with dementia severity was moderated by affliction class. The effect 
persisted at 48 months. Afflicted cases were more likely to convert to 
Alzheimer's disease in that timeframe, by Cox's F: F(234, 286) = 3.89, p < .001.
CONCLUSIONS: Our approach could guide precision interventions against specific 
biomarkers. This classifier could be administered by telephone, making class 
assignment feasible without direct patient contact or biomarker assessment. 
(PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2025 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000968
PMCID: PMC12329775
PMID: 39541539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Science. 2024 Nov 15;386(6723):717-718. doi: 10.1126/science.adu5824. Epub
2024  Nov 14.

Preprint on Alzheimer's drug deaths ignites author dispute.

Couzin-Frankel J.

Co-authors say preliminary data on lecanemab fatalities don't support the 
paper's claims.

DOI: 10.1126/science.adu5824
PMID: 39541464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Stem Cells. 2025 Feb 12;43(2):sxae074. doi: 10.1093/stmcls/sxae074.

Therapeutic potential of stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles in 
neurodegenerative diseases associated with cognitive decline.

Spinelli M(1), Fusco S(2)(3), Grassi C(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Sassari, 07100 Sassari, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, 00168 Rome, 
Italy.
(3)Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS, 00168 Rome, Italy.

In the central nervous system, cell-to-cell interaction is essential for brain 
plassticity and repair, and its alteration is critically involved in the 
development of neurodegenerative diseases. Neural stem cells are a plentiful 
source of biological signals promoting neuroplasticity and the maintenance of 
cognitive functions. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) represent an additional 
strategy for cells to release signals in the surrounding cellular environment or 
to exchange information among both neighboring and distant cells. In the last 
years, rising attention has been devoted to the ability of stem cell 
(SC)-derived EVs to counteract inflammatory and degenerative brain disorders 
taking advantage of their immunomodulatory capacities and regenerative 
potential. Here, we review the role of adult neurogenesis impairment in the 
cognitive decline associated with neurodegenerative diseases and describe the 
beneficial effects of SC-derived EVs on brain plasticity and repair also 
discussing the advantages of SC-derived EV administration vs SC transplantation 
in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and 
translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through 
our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our 
site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/stmcls/sxae074
PMCID: PMC12411759
PMID: 39541178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interests.


86. Hum Brain Mapp. 2024 Nov;45(16):e70068. doi: 10.1002/hbm.70068.

Evaluation of ComBat Harmonization for Reducing Across-Tracer Differences in 
Regional Amyloid PET Analyses.

Yang B(1), Earnest T(1), Kumar S(1), Kothapalli D(1), Benzinger T(1), Gordon 
B(1), Sotiras A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine 
in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(2)Institute for Informatics, Data Science and Biostatistics, Washington 
University School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Oct 07:2024.06.14.24308952. doi: 10.1101/2024.06.14.24308952.

Differences in amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) radiotracer 
pharmacokinetics and binding properties lead to discrepancies in amyloid-β 
uptake estimates. Harmonization of tracer-specific biases is crucial for optimal 
performance of downstream tasks. Here, we investigated the efficacy of ComBat, a 
data-driven harmonization model, for reducing tracer-specific biases in regional 
amyloid PET measurements from [18F]-florbetapir (FBP) and [11C]-Pittsburgh 
compound-B (PiB). One hundred thirteen head-to-head FBP-PiB scan pairs, scanned 
from the same subject within 90 days, were selected from the Open Access Series 
of Imaging Studies 3 (OASIS-3) dataset. The Centiloid scale, ComBat with no 
covariates, ComBat with biological covariates, and GAM-ComBat with biological 
covariates were used to harmonize both global and regional amyloid standardized 
uptake value ratios (SUVR). Variants of ComBat, including longitudinal ComBat 
and PEACE, were also tested. Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and mean 
absolute error (MAE) were computed to measure the absolute agreement between 
tracers. Additionally, longitudinal amyloid SUVRs from an anti-amyloid drug 
trial were simulated using linear mixed effects modeling. Differences in 
rates-of-change between simulated treatment and placebo groups were tested, and 
change in statistical power/Type-I error after harmonization was quantified. In 
the head-to-head tracer comparison, ComBat with no covariates was the best at 
increasing ICC and decreasing MAE of both global summary and regional amyloid 
PET SUVRs between scan pairs of the same group of subjects. In the clinical 
trial simulation, harmonization with both Centiloid and ComBat increased 
statistical power of detecting true rate-of-change differences between groups 
and decreased false discovery rate in the absence of a treatment effect. The 
greatest benefit of harmonization was observed when groups exhibited differing 
FBP-to-PiB proportions. ComBat outperformed the Centiloid scale in harmonizing 
both global and regional amyloid estimates. Additionally, ComBat improved the 
detection of rate-of-change differences between clinical trial groups. Our 
findings suggest that ComBat is a viable alternative to Centiloid for 
harmonizing regional amyloid PET analyses.

© 2024 The Author(s). Human Brain Mapping published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.70068
PMCID: PMC11561838
PMID: 39540665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AS reported receiving personal fees from 
BrightFocus for serving as a grant reviewer and stock from TheraPanacea outside 
the submitted work. The other authors declare no conflicts of interest.


87. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jan;21(1):e14350. doi: 10.1002/alz.14350. Epub 2024
Nov  14.

Public and participant involvement as a pathway to inclusive dementia research.

Walter S(1), McArdle R(2), Largent EA(3), Edelmayer R(4), Sexton C(4), Sandoval 
SL(5), Medsger H(5), Meserve N(5), Samaroo R(5), Sierra C(5), Smeitink MMP(5), 
Gibson A(6), Gregory S(7), Karamacoska D(8), Leroi I(9), Molina-Henry D(1), 
Suarez-Gonzalez A(10), Glover CM(11)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, University of Southern 
California, San Diego, California, USA.
(2)Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(5)PPI Member, San Diego, California, USA.
(6)Saint Louis University, School of Social Work, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(7)Edinburgh Dementia Prevention, Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(8)NICM Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, Penrith, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(9)School of Medicine and Global Brain Health Institute, Trinity College Dublin, 
Dublin, UK.
(10)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(11)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush Medical College, Chicago, Illinois, 
USA.
(12)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Rush Medical College, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(13)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush Medical College, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.

The field of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) urgently requires 
inclusive research to ensure the priorities and outcomes of research apply to 
those most impacted. We postulate public and participant involvement (PPI) as a 
pathway to achieving the best science, both in research that informs health and 
social policy as well as in therapeutic studies to treat and prevent ADRD. This 
position paper aims to provide dementia researchers with evidence to understand 
how to apply PPI. We begin by highlighting the disparities experienced by people 
with dementia, including ageism, stigma of cognitive impairment, and health 
disparities for minoritized communities. We then provide examples of PPI in ADRD 
across the research lifecycle, from defining research topics of priority to 
those impacted by ADRD, through the design, analysis, dissemination, and 
translation to policy and practice. We also provide recommendations to create 
and maintain collaboration between researchers and communities through PPI. 
HIGHLIGHTS: A central premise of public and participant involvement (PPI) is 
collaborative relationships between researchers and community members. To build 
equitable partnerships, researchers must acknowledge and understand the context 
of research. This includes ageism, the stigma of dementia, and ongoing 
discrimination for many minoritized communities. Meaningful partnerships include 
choice, respect, shared decision making, access, inclusion, and representation. 
Notably, we recommend that researchers begin partnerships early in the research 
process and share the impact of PPI on research.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14350
PMCID: PMC11782197
PMID: 39540563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RM is funded by the National Institute for 
Health and Care Research (NIHR) for her fellowship (NIHR 301677) and supported 
by the NIHR Newcastle Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) based at The Newcastle 
upon Tyne Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Newcastle University and the Cumbria, 
Northumberland and Tyne and Wear (CNTW) NHS Foundation Trust. SW receives 
funding from a grant for the Alzheimer's Clinical Trials Consortium (ACTC) 
National Institute on Aging (NIA), National Institutes of Health (NIH; 
U24AG057437). EL is supported in part by the National Institute on Aging (NIA) 
of the National Institutes of Health under Award Number U54AG063546, which funds 
the NIA Imbedded Pragmatic Alzheimer's Disease and AD‐Related Dementias Clinical 
Trials Collaboratory (NIA IMPACT Collaboratory). The content is solely the 
responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official 
views of the National Institutes of Health. CG, RE, AG, SG, DK, IL, SLS, HM, NM, 
DMH, RS, CS, CS, MS, ASG have no funding sources to report in relation to this 
work. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


88. Ann Neurol. 2025 Mar;97(3):460-469. doi: 10.1002/ana.27135. Epub 2024 Nov 14.

Sex-Specific Vulnerabilities to Subclinical Vascular Brain Injury in Early 
Late-Life: The Framingham Heart Study.

Yau WW(1)(2)(3), Scott MR(4)(5), Petrea RE(5)(6), Buckley RF(1)(2)(3), Kojis 
D(4)(5), Sperling RA(1)(2)(3), Chhatwal JP(1)(2)(3), Maillard P(7), Aparicio 
HJ(5)(8), Romero JR(5)(8), DeCarli CS(7), Beiser AS(#)(4)(5), Seshadri 
S(#)(5)(7)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Center for Alzheimer 
Research and Treatment, Boston, MA.
(3)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Boston University, 
Boston, MA.
(5)The Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
(7)Alzheimer's Disease Center and Imaging of Dementia and Aging Laboratory, 
Department of Neurology and Center for Neuroscience, University of California at 
Davis School of Medicine, Sacramento, CA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.
(9)Glen Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
University of Texas Health San Antonio, San Antonio, TX.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: Subclinical vascular brain injury is an increasingly recognized risk 
factor for stroke and dementia. Despite well-established sex differences in 
vascular risk and disease prevalence, the impact of sex on drivers of 
subclinical vascular brain injury remains unclear, presenting a barrier to 
developing sex-specific prevention guidelines. We aimed to establish the extent 
to which sex moderates associations between vascular risk factors and magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) measures of subclinical brain injury in stroke-free 
older adults.
METHODS: We leveraged cross-sectional data from 1,579 stroke- and dementia-free 
Framingham Heart Study Offspring participants at exam 8 (age 65.7 ± 8.8 years, 
53% women). Vascular risks were assessed using components of the Framingham 
Stroke Risk Profile (FSRP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP). White matter 
hyperintensity volume (WMH), total cerebral brain volume (TBV), and covert brain 
infarcts were quantified using MRI. We examined whether vascular risk factors 
were associated with MRI measures across the combined cohort, and then 
determined whether sex modified these associations.
RESULTS: Higher FSRP and specifically systolic blood pressure (SBP) were 
associated with greater WMH. These associations were stronger in women and 
remained after adjusting for menopause age and hormone therapy use. By contrast, 
diabetes and lower DBP were associated with smaller TBV primarily in men. The 
DBP-atrophy relationship was only observed in men with declining DBP or prior 
hypertension.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings highlight differential vulnerability to the impact 
of vascular risk factors on white matter health in women and global atrophy in 
men, supporting the development of sex-specific guidelines to better preserve 
vascular brain health in aging. ANN NEUROL 2025;97:460-469.

© 2024 American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.27135
PMCID: PMC12034097
PMID: 39540324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential Conflicts of Interest Nothing to 
report.


89. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Nov;102(2):382-395. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240370. Epub 2024
 Nov 14.

The prevalence and risk factors of apathy among the Canadian long-term care 
residents with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias.

Agboji A(1), Freeman S(1), Banner D(1), Armstrong J(2), Martin-Khan M(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Northern British Columbia, Prince George, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(2)Alzheimer Society of Canada, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, University of Exeter, St Luke's Campus, 
Exerter, UK.

BACKGROUND: Apathy is a prevalent and debilitating neuropsychiatric symptom 
among persons living with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias, 
particularly those residing in long-term care facilities (LTCF). Despite its 
profound effects on the quality of life for both residents and their caregivers, 
apathy remains underrecognized and poorly understood in the context of dementia 
care.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence and biopsychosocial characteristics of 
apathy among newly admitted residents with dementia in Canadian LTCF using an 
Apathy Index derived from the interRAI Minimum Data Set (MDS) 2.0.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study analyzed data from newly admitted residents 
with dementia from various LTCF (N = 97,789) across seven Canadian provinces 
between 2015 and 2019. Logistic regression analysis was performed to determine 
the relationship between apathy and multiple variables including 
sociodemographic and clinical variables. The biopsychosocial model of health was 
used to guide analysis.
RESULTS: The prevalence rate of apathy among the Canadian long-term care 
residents with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias was 13.1%. Apathy was 
associated with various variables including male sex, pain, use of 
psychotropics, high Activity of Daily Living Self-Performance Hierarchy Scale 
scores, depression, aggression, severe cognitive impairment, and insomnia. 
Preferences for certain activities such as card games, art and craft, reading, 
music and exercise were inversely related to apathy while gardening was not.
CONCLUSIONS: By shedding light on this complex phenomenon within a Canadian 
context, we recommend that targeted interventions and improved care strategies 
to enhance the well-being of persons living with dementia should be prioritized 
in LTCF.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240370
PMID: 39540250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Front Neuroinform. 2024 Oct 30;18:1495571. doi: 10.3389/fninf.2024.1495571. 
eCollection 2024.

Spectral graph convolutional neural network for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis 
and multi-disease categorization from functional brain changes in magnetic 
resonance images.

Alharbi H(1), Juanatas RA(2), Al Hejaili A(3), Lim SJ(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Hail, Ha'il, Saudi 
Arabia.
(2)College of Computing and Information Technologies, National University, 
Manila, Philippines.
(3)Faculty of Computers and Information Technology, Computer Science Department, 
University of Tabuk, Tabuk, Saudi Arabia.
(4)School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Yeosu Campus, Chonnam National 
University, Gwangju, Republic of Korea.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by 
the gradual deterioration of cognitive functions, leading to dementia and 
significantly impacting the quality of life for millions of people worldwide. 
Early and accurate diagnosis is crucial for the effective management and 
treatment of this debilitating condition. This study introduces a novel 
framework based on Spectral Graph Convolutional Neural Networks (SGCNN) for 
diagnosing AD and categorizing multiple diseases through the analysis of 
functional changes in brain structures captured via magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI). To assess the effectiveness of our approach, we systematically analyze 
structural modifications to the SGCNN model through comprehensive ablation 
studies. The performance of various Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) is also 
evaluated, including SGCNN variants, Base CNN, Lean CNN, and Deep CNN. We begin 
with the original SGCNN model, which serves as our baseline and achieves a 
commendable classification accuracy of 93%. In our investigation, we perform two 
distinct ablation studies on the SGCNN model to examine how specific structural 
changes impact its performance. The results reveal that Ablation Model 1 
significantly enhances accuracy, achieving an impressive 95%, while Ablation 
Model 2 maintains the baseline accuracy of 93%. Additionally, the Base CNN model 
demonstrates strong performance with a classification accuracy of 93%, whereas 
both the Lean CNN and Deep CNN models achieve 94% accuracy, indicating their 
competitive capabilities. To validate the models' effectiveness, we utilize 
multiple evaluation metrics, including accuracy, precision, recall, and 
F1-score, ensuring a thorough assessment of their performance. Our findings 
underscore that Ablation Model 1 (SGCNN Model 1) delivers the highest predictive 
accuracy among the tested models, highlighting its potential as a robust 
approach for Alzheimer's image classification. Ultimately, this research aims to 
facilitate early diagnosis and treatment of AD, contributing to improved patient 
outcomes and advancing the field of neurodegenerative disease diagnosis.

Copyright © 2024 Alharbi, Juanatas, Al Hejaili and Lim.

DOI: 10.3389/fninf.2024.1495571
PMCID: PMC11557380
PMID: 39539804

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


91. Front Neurol. 2024 Oct 29;15:1439125. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1439125. 
eCollection 2024.

The role of inflammation in neurological disorders: a brief overview of multiple 
sclerosis, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's disease'.

Cantero-Fortiz Y(#)(1)(2), Boada M(#)(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Networking Research Center on Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

Neuroinflammation is a central feature in the pathophysiology of several 
neurodegenerative diseases, including MS, AD, and PD. This review aims to 
synthesize current research on the role of inflammation in these conditions, 
emphasizing the potential of inflammatory biomarkers for diagnosis and 
treatment. We highlight recent findings on the mechanisms of neuroinflammation, 
the utility of biomarkers in disease differentiation, and the implications for 
therapeutic strategies. Advances in understanding inflammatory pathways offer 
promising avenues for developing targeted interventions to improve patient 
outcomes. Future research should focus on validating these biomarkers in larger 
cohorts and integrating them into clinical practice to enhance diagnostic 
accuracy and therapeutic efficacy.

Copyright © 2024 Cantero-Fortiz and Boada.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1439125
PMCID: PMC11558529
PMID: 39539666

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


92. Front Aging Neurosci. 2024 Oct 30;16:1456824. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2024.1456824.  eCollection 2024.

Biomarkers and Alzheimer's disease: a bibliometric analysis.

Yang L(#)(1), Zeng J(#)(2), Li L(1), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Suining Central Hospital, Suining, China.
(2)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Suining First People's 
Hospital, Suining, China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: The diagnosis and treatment of biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease has 
emerged as a prominent topic within Alzheimer's disease research. In this paper, 
we conducted a bibliometric analysis of data from a wide range of literature in 
this field to enhance the in-depth understanding of this area.
METHOD: The core collection of the Science Citation Index database (web of 
science) was used to search for relevant literature in the above fields from 1 
January 2006 to 14 November 2022 and Citespace software was used to visualize 
and analyze the literature data.
RESULTS: A total of 1,138 papers were included, of which the United States 
ranked first with 607 papers and China ranked 6th in the world with 84 papers. 
The value of mediational centrality is 0.49 in the United States and 0.05 in 
China. In terms of the number of articles published by the research authors, the 
Swedish scholar Blennow Kaj ranks first with 82 articles published, and the 
scholars who rank second and third are Zetterberg Henrik (78 articles) and 
Morris John C (64 articles), respectively; in terms of the mediational 
centrality, the American scholar Trojanowski John Q ranked first in the world 
with 0.1, and the second and third ranked scholars were Blennow Kaj (0.09) and 
Zetterberg Henrik (0.06) respectively. Scholar JACK CR ranked first with 377 
citation frequency. The journal NEUROLOGY is ranked first with 943 citations.
CONCLUSION: In recent years, global research in the field of biomarkers related 
to Alzheimer's disease has shown signs of softening, and the momentum of 
research has slightly diminished. However, this trend does not imply a decline 
in the quality of research. It is essential to enhance collaboration among 
countries, major research institutions, and scholars, with a particular emphasis 
on fostering international partnerships in the future.

Copyright © 2024 Yang, Zeng, Li and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1456824
PMCID: PMC11557497
PMID: 39539458

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


93. Iran J Basic Med Sci. 2024;27(12):1583-1591. doi: 
10.22038/ijbms.2024.79464.17210.

High-intensity interval training combined with cannabidiol supplementation 
improves cognitive impairment by regulating the expression of apolipoprotein E, 
presenilin-1, and glutamate proteins in a rat model of amyloid β-induced 
Alzheimer's disease.

Kordi MR(1), Khademi N(1), Zobeydi AM(1), Torabi S(1), Mahmoodifar E(1), Gaeini 
AA(1), Choobineh S(1), Pournemati P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Exercise Physiology, Faculty of Sports Science and Health, 
University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major public concern and one of the 
primary types of dementia characterized by memory impairment and cognitive 
decline. Although the properties of exercise training and cannabidiol (CBD) 
treatments for improving AD have recently been revealed, the exact mechanisms 
remain unknown. Therefore, this study highlights the interactive impact of 
high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and CBD administration on improving 
cognitive impairment in a rat model of amyloid beta (Aꞵ)-induced AD through 
modulating the expression of apolipoprotein E (APOE), presenilin-1, and 
glutamate proteins.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: After acclimatization, the animals were randomly assigned 
into seven subgroups: control (CNT), Sham, Alzheimer (AL), Alzheimer + HIIT (AL 
+ HIIT), Alzheimer + cannabidiol (AL + CBD), Alzheimer + CBD + HIIT (AL + CBD + 
HIIT), and model (sacrificed ten days after surgery to confirm the induction of 
AD) groups. To induce AD, rats received an intrahippocampal injection of Aꞵ. The 
animals in exercise groups performed the HIIT protocol, and the rats in CBD 
groups were administered 20 mg/kg CBD suspended in sesame oil for six weeks. 
Following the experimental protocol, serum and hippocampus tissue were collected 
for histopathological and western blot analysis.
RESULTS: Our findings indicated that both HIIT and CBD treatments were 
efficacious in ameliorating Aꞵ deposition and modulating biomarkers of AD, 
including APOE, presenilin-1, and glutamate. However, the interactive effect of 
HIIT and CBD supplementation was more effective.
CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrated the positive therapeutic effect of HIIT 
and CBD interventions, particularly HIIT combined with CBD, on alleviating AD.

© 2024 mums.ac.ir All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.22038/ijbms.2024.79464.17210
PMCID: PMC11556759
PMID: 39539449

Conflict of interest statement: The authors confirm that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


94. Iran J Basic Med Sci. 2024;27(12):1547-1557. doi: 
10.22038/ijbms.2024.78543.16982.

Catalpol alleviates amyloid- generation and neuronal oxidative stress injury via 
activating the Keap1-Nrf2/ARE signaling pathway in the immortalized lymphocytes 
from patients with late-onset Alzheimer's disease and SKNMC cells co-culture 
model.

Xiang C(1)(2)(3), Lu Y(1)(4)(3), Hao R(1), Wei Y(1), Hu Y(1), Yu G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Jiangsu Province Hospital of Chinese Medicine, the 
Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, Jiangsu 
Province, China.
(2)Cent Hosp Enshi Tujia & Miao Autonomous Prefectur, 158 Wuyang Ave, Enshi 
445000, Hubei, Peoples R China.
(3)These authors contributed equally to this work.
(4)Department of Neurology, Shenzhen Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital, 
China.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the effect of catalpol, the major bioactive constituents 
of Rehmannia glutinosa, on our Alzheimer's disease (AD) in vitro model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We employed the immortalized lymphocytes (lymphoblastoid 
cell line, LCL) from late-onset AD patients and co-cultured "them" to mimic the 
pathological process of late-onset AD and investigated the effect of catalpol on 
our AD in vitro model.
RESULTS: In the co-culture model, AD-derived LCL triggered excessive Aβ1-42 in 
SKNMC cells due to its high levels of oxidative stress and resulted in neuronal 
oxidative stress injury through inhibiting Keap1-Nrf2/ARE signaling pathway. 
Treatment with catalpol and N-acetylcysteine (NAC), an antioxidant, prevented 
the AD LCL-induced Aβ1-42 overproduction and reduced the level of β-site amyloid 
precursor protein cleaving enzyme-1 (BACE1) and amyloid precursor protein 
(APP)-C99. Catalpol and NAC also enhanced the antioxidant capacity and reduced 
apoptosis in SKNMC cells co-cultured with AD LCL. The anti-oxidative effect of 
catalpol was antagonized by ML385, the Nrf2 inhibitor. Therefore, we speculate 
that the antioxidant and anti-apoptotic effects of catalpol are mediated by 
activating the Keap1-Nrf2/ARE signaling pathway.
CONCLUSION: Catalpol affects the anti-Aβ generation and the antioxidative and 
antiapoptotic properties in the AD co-cultured model. So, it might be a novel 
natural drug and offer a potential therapeutic approach for AD.

© 2024 mums.ac.ir All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.22038/ijbms.2024.78543.16982
PMCID: PMC11556766
PMID: 39539442

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


95. Front Cell Neurosci. 2024 Oct 30;18:1471005. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2024.1471005.
 eCollection 2024.

Deficiency of NLRP3 protects cerebral pericytes and attenuates Alzheimer's 
pathology in tau-transgenic mice.

Quan W(#)(1)(2), Decker Y(#)(2), Luo Q(2)(3), Chemla A(2), Chang HF(4)(5), Li 
D(1), Fassbender K(2), Liu Y(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University Medical 
School, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Saarland University, Homburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China.
(4)Cellular Neurophysiology, Center for Integrative Physiology and Molecular 
Medicine (CIPMM), Saarland University, Homburg, Germany.
(5)Center for Gender-Specific Biology and Medicine (CGBM), Saarland University, 
Homburg, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Activation of NLRP3-containing inflammasome, which is responsible 
for IL-1β maturation, has been shown to contribute to Alzheimer's disease 
(AD)-associated pathogenesis in both APP- and tau-transgenic mice. However, 
effects of NLRP3 on pericytes and subsequent cerebrovascular pathology in AD 
remain unknown.
METHODS: NLRP3-deficient and wild-type AD animal models were generated by 
crossing human P301S tau-transgenic mice and Nlrp3 knockout mice. AD-associated 
neuroinflammation, tauopathy, vasculature and pericyte coverage in the brain 
were investigated using immunohistological and molecular biological methods. To 
investigate how NLRP3 regulates pericyte activation and survival, pericytes from 
the brains of Nlrp3 knockout and wild-type mice were cultured, treated with 
IL-1β and H2O2 at different concentrations and analyzed by confocal microscopy 
and flow cytometry after staining with fluorescently labelled phalloidin, 
annexin-V and PDGFRβ antibody.
RESULTS: Deficiency of NLRP3 (1) reduced Iba-1, GFAP and AT8 
antibody-immunoreactive phosphorylated tau-positive cells, without significantly 
altering transcription of inflammatory genes, (2) preserved cerebral vasculature 
and pericyte coverage and up-regulated Osteopontin gene transcription, and (3) 
improved cognitive function in tau-transgenic mice. In cell culture, NLRP3 
deficiency prevented pericyte apoptosis. Treatment with IL-1β or H2O2 increased 
the expression of PDGFRβ in NLRP3-deficient pericytes, but decreased it in NLRP3 
wild-type pericytes in a dose-dependent manner.
DISCUSSION: Inhibition of NLRP3 can promote pericyte survival, improve 
cerebrovascular function, and attenuate AD pathology in the brain of 
tau-transgenic mice. Our study supports NLRP3 as a novel therapeutic target for 
Alzheimer's patients.

Copyright © 2024 Quan, Decker, Luo, Chemla, Chang, Li, Fassbender and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2024.1471005
PMCID: PMC11558252
PMID: 39539344

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


96. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2024 Dec 4;15(23):4245-4257. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00338. Epub 2024 Nov 14.

Unlocking the Potential of Oxymatrine: A Comprehensive Review of Its 
Neuroprotective Mechanisms and Therapeutic Prospects in Neurological Disorders.

Dhurandhar Y(1), Tomar S(2), Das A(1), Singh AP(1), Prajapati JL(1), Bodakhe 
SH(1), Namdeo KP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Guru Ghasidas Vishwavidyalaya (A Central University), 
Bilaspur 495009, Chhattisgarh, India.
(2)Indian Pharmacopoeia Commission, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, 
Government of India, Sector-23, Raj Nagar, Ghaziabad 201002, Uttar Pradesh, 
India.

Sophora flavescens, the source of oxymatrine, is gaining popularity due to its 
potential in neuroprotection and treatment of various neurological conditions 
like epilepsy, depression, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and multiple sclerosis. Its 
natural occurrence and promising preliminary research highlight its ability to 
reduce nerve cell damage and inflammation, attributed to its antiapoptotic, 
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. However, challenges like 
solubility, potential adverse effects and limited bioavailability hinder its 
full therapeutic utilization. Current strategies, including formulation 
optimization and innovative drug delivery systems, aim to enhance its efficacy 
and safety. Despite its potential, further research is necessary to overcome 
these obstacles and maximize its clinical effectiveness. Conclusively, 
oxymatrine demonstrates distinct neuroprotective properties, offering unique 
advantages over other agents currently being studied or used in clinical 
practice for neurological disorders. nevertheless, additional study is necessary 
to surmount current obstacles and maximize its effectiveness for clinical 
settings. This study provides a comprehensive overview of oxymatrine's 
neuroprotective mechanisms and therapeutic potential while emphasizing the need 
for continued investigation and development for practical clinical application.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00338
PMID: 39539195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Korean J Physiol Pharmacol. 2025 Mar 1;29(2):227-233. doi:
10.4196/kjpp.24.239.  Epub 2024 Nov 14.

The impact of CYP2D6 on donepezil concentration and its lack of effect on the 
treatment response and adverse effect in Korean patients with Alzheimer's 
disease.

Kim TE(1), Bae JW(2), Hong S(2), Jeon HJ(3)(4), Moon Y(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Konkuk University Medical Center, Seoul 
05030, Korea.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Keimyung University, Daegu 42601, Korea.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Konkuk University Medical Center, Seoul 05030, 
Korea.
(4)Research Institute of Medical Science, Konkuk University of Medicine, Seoul 
05030, Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Konkuk University Medical Center, Seoul 05030, 
Korea.

Donepezil, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, is widely used for managing the 
symptoms of Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet its clinical response varies widely 
among individuals. This study aims to investigate the influence of CYP2D6 
genetic variants on donepezil concentration, treatment response, and adverse 
effects in Korean patients with AD dementia. We conducted a longitudinal study 
involving 76 patients receiving either 5 mg or 10 mg of donepezil. Genetic 
testing identified 9 CYP2D6 alleles, categorizing patients by metabolizing 
abilities. Blood sampling for plasma concentrations of donepezil were performed 
at steady-state. Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) were conducted at 12, 24 
and 36 months after the initiation of treatment. Adverse events were collected 
throughout the study period. Donepezil plasma concentrations differed 
significantly among metabolizer statuses (mean 56.8 ± 27.1 ng/ml in normal 
metabolizers vs. 69.6 ± 30.1 ng/ml in intermediate metabolizers, p = 0.042), but 
these differences did not affect cognitive function over three years as assessed 
by MMSE. Additionally, there was no significant correlation between donepezil 
plasma concentration and adverse events. Our study is the first to elucidate the 
associations between CYP2D6 genotype and the concentration, clinical response or 
adverse events of donepezil in Korean patients with AD dementia. Larger studies 
are necessary to fully understand the impact of CYP2D6 genetic variants on 
therapeutic outcomes with donepezil.

DOI: 10.4196/kjpp.24.239
PMCID: PMC11842288
PMID: 39539179

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


98. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Nov;102(2):459-469. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240690. Epub 2024
 Nov 13.

Changes in plasma biomarkers differentiate clinical stages of Alzheimer's 
disease using immunomagnetic reduction assays.

Chao SP(1)(2), Lin WC(3), Lu CH(4), Wu HC(5), Liu HC(6), Hu CJ(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Dementia Center, Department of Neurology, Shuang Ho Hospital, Taipei Medical 
University, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Institute of Biomedical Informatics, College of Medical Science and 
Technology, Taipei Medical University, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Neurology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung 
University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Neurology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Linkou Medical Center 
and College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(6)Department of General Psychiatry, Taipei City Hospital Songde Branch, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(7)Neurology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Many groups have been using immunomagnetic reduction (IMR) for 
assaying plasma amyloid-β 1-40 (Aβ1-40) peptide, Aβ1-42 peptide and total tau 
protein (T-Tau) in cognitively normal controls (NC), patients with amnestic mild 
cognitive impairment (aMCI) and Alzheimer's disease dementia (ADD). Tremendous 
results have been independently reported.
OBJECTIVE: We used traditional knowledge databases (e.g., PubMed, Embase), 
papers published at international conferences, and private communications to 
obtain data involving the use of IMR assay for plasma biomarkers of plasma 
Aβ1-40, Aβ1-42, and T-Tau in NC, aMCI, and ADD.
METHODS: Results of thirty studies were analyzed, including twenty-five studies 
published in papers, two studies presented at conferences and three unpublished 
studies.
RESULTS: Among the thirty studies, there were 1189 subjects of NC, 544 aMCI 
patients and 853 ADD patients. The average value of plasma Aβ1-40 in subjects 
significantly decreased from NC (59.72 pg/ml) to aMCI (45.92 pg/ml, p < 0.0001), 
which was no significant different from ADD (48.34 pg/ml, p > 0.05). The average 
level of plasma Aβ1-42 significantly increased from NC (15.72 pg/ml) to aMCI 
(17.66 pg/ml, p < 0.0001), which was not significantly different from ADD 
(19.39 pg/ml, p > 0.05). However, the average level of plasma T-Tau 
significantly increased from NC (17.92 pg/ml) to aMCI (28.26 pg/ml, p < 0.0001), 
further significantly increased to AD (35.51 pg/ml, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Plasma Aβ1-40, Aβ1-42, and T-Tau levels are able to discriminate NC 
from patients with aMCI and ADD. Plasma T-Tau levels are disease-severity 
dependent.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240690
PMID: 39539073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


99. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 13;14(1):27908. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-78975-2.

In-Silico discovery of 17alpha-hydroxywithanolide-D as potential neuroprotective 
allosteric modulator of NMDA receptor targeting Alzheimer's disease.

Vashisth MK(#)(1), Hu J(#)(2), Liu M(3), Basha SH(4), Yu C(5), Huang W(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, School of Basic Medicine Sciences, Southern 
Medical University, 510515, Guangzhou, P. R. China.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics, Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical 
University, 524001, Zhanjiang, P. R. China.
(3)Department of Human Anatomy, School of Basic Medicine Sciences, Dali 
University, 671000, Yunnan, China.
(4)Innovative Informatica Technologies, 500049, Hyderabad, India. 
shb@innovativeinformatica.com.
(5)Central Laboratory, Affiliated Hospital of Putian University, Putian 
University, 351100, Putian, China. ptyychenyu@163.com.
(6)Department of Human Anatomy, School of Basic Medicine Sciences, Southern 
Medical University, 510515, Guangzhou, P. R. China. huangwenhua2009@139.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder marked by 
cognitive decline, memory impairment, and behavioral alterations. The 
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor has emerged as a promising target for AD 
pharmacotherapy due to its role in the disease's pathogenesis. This study 
leverages advanced computational methods to screen 80 active constituents of 
Withania somnifera (Ashwagandha), a traditional herb known for its 
neuroprotective effects, against the NMDA receptor, using FDA-approved 
Ifenprodil as a reference. Our blind virtual screening results demonstrated that 
all tested compounds could bind to various domains of the NMDA receptor, with 
binding energies ranging from - 4.1 to -11.9 kcal/mol, compared to Ifenprodil's 
-7.8 kcal/mol. Binding preference analysis revealed 7 compounds bound to the 
A-chain, 37 to the B-chain, 7 to the C-chain, and 29 to the D-chain of the 
receptor. Notable binding was observed predominantly at the Amino Terminal 
Domain (ATD) core site, some at the ATD-Ligand Binding Domain (LBD) interface, 
and a few at the Transmembrane Domain (TMD). Particularly, 
17alpha-hydroxywithanolide D, with a binding energy of -11.9 kcal/mol, emerged 
as a prime candidate for further investigation. Molecular dynamics simulations 
of this compound revealed key interactions, including direct hydrogen bonding 
with residues ASP165, ARG431, THR433, LYS466, and TYR476 on the D-chain, as well 
as additional hydrophobic and water-bridging interactions. These simulations 
highlighted the compound's influence on dynamic conformational states of the 
GluN1b-GluN2B receptor complex, modulating interactions between GluN1b Lys178 
and GluN2B Asn184. Furthermore, the compound affected the distance between LBD 
heterodimers and the tension within the LBD-M30 linker, demonstrating its 
potential to modulate NMDA receptor activity. This comprehensive study not only 
underscores the therapeutic promise of Withania somnifera derivatives for AD but 
also provides a detailed molecular basis for their efficacy, offering valuable 
insights for targeted drug development and innovative therapeutic strategies 
against Alzheimer's disease.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-78975-2
PMCID: PMC11560966
PMID: 39537738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Competing interests The authors 
declare no competing interests.


100. Nat Commun. 2024 Nov 13;15(1):9828. doi: 10.1038/s41467-024-53617-3.

Author Correction: Genetic, transcriptomic, histological, and biochemical 
analysis of progressive supranuclear palsy implicates glial activation and novel 
risk genes.

Farrell K(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Humphrey J(3)(4)(5)(7), Chang T(8), Zhao Y(9)(10), 
Leung YY(9)(10)(11), Kuksa PP(9)(10)(11), Patil V(8), Lee WP(9)(10)(11), Kuzma 
AB(9)(10), Valladares O(9)(10), Cantwell LB(9)(10), Wang H(9)(10)(11), Ravi 
A(3)(4)(5)(7), De Sanctis C(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Han N(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Christie 
TD(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Afzal R(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Kandoi S(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), 
Whitney K(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Krassner MM(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Ressler 
H(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Kim S(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Dangoor D(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Iida 
MA(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Casella A(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Walker RH(12)(13), Nirenberg 
MJ(12)(13), Renton AE(3)(4)(5)(7), Babrowicz B(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Coppola G(8), 
Raj T(3)(4)(5)(7), Höglinger GU(14)(15)(16), Müller U(17), Golbe LI(18)(19), 
Morris HR(20)(21), Hardy J(21)(22), Revesz T(21)(23), Warner TT(20)(21)(23), 
Jaunmuktane Z(20)(21)(23), Mok KY(21)(22), Rademakers R(24)(25)(26), Dickson 
DW(26), Ross OA(26), Wang LS(9)(10)(27), Goate A(3)(4)(5)(7), Schellenberg 
G(9)(10), Geschwind DH(8)(28)(29)(30)(31); PSP Genetics Study Group; Crary 
JF(32)(33)(34)(35)(36)(37), Naj A(38)(39)(40).

Collaborators: Hopfner F, Roeber S, Herms J, Troakes C, Gelpi E, Compta Y, van 
Swieten JC, Rajput A, Hinton F, de Yebenes JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(2)Department of Artificial Intelligence & Human Health, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(6)Neuropathology Brain Bank & Research CoRE, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Department of Genetics & Genomic Science, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(9)Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(11)Institute for Biomedical Informatics, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(12)Department of Neurology, James J. Peters Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Bronx, NY, USA.
(13)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Hospital, Munich, 
Germany.
(15)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(16)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(17)Institute of Human Genetics, Justus-Liebig University Giessen, Giessen, 
Germany.
(18)Department of Neurology, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New 
Brunswick, NJ, USA.
(19)CurePSP Inc., New York, NY, USA.
(20)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, University College 
London, London, UK.
(21)Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(22)Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, UK.
(23)Queen Square Brain Bank for Neurological Disorders, University College 
London, London, UK.
(24)VIB Center for Molecular Neurology, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(25)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(26)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
(27)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, Perelman School 
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(28)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(29)Program in Neurogenetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(30)Center for Autism Research and Treatment Semel Institute for Neuroscience 
and Human Behavior, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(31)Institute for Precision Health, University of California, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(32)Department of Pathology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA. John.crary@mountsinai.org.
(33)Department of Artificial Intelligence & Human Health, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. John.crary@mountsinai.org.
(34)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA. John.crary@mountsinai.org.
(35)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. John.crary@mountsinai.org.
(36)Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA. John.crary@mountsinai.org.
(37)Neuropathology Brain Bank & Research CoRE, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA. John.crary@mountsinai.org.
(38)Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
Adamnaj@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.
(39)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
Adamnaj@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.
(40)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, Perelman School 
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
Adamnaj@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.

Erratum for
    Nat Commun. 2024 Sep 9;15(1):7880. doi: 10.1038/s41467-024-52025-x.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-024-53617-3
PMCID: PMC11561328
PMID: 39537593