1. Front Mol Biosci. 2025 Jun 26;12:1622186. doi: 10.3389/fmolb.2025.1622186. 
eCollection 2025.

Hormonal modulation, mitochondria and Alzheimer's prevention: the role of GLP-1 
agonists and estrogens.

Lizcano F(1)(2)(3)(4), Sanabria D(3)(4), Aviles E(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center of Biomedical Investigation (CIBUS), Universidad de La Sabana, Chía, 
Colombia.
(2)School of Medicine, Universidad de La Sabana, Chía, Colombia.
(3)Fundación Cardioinfantil-Instituto de Cardiología, Bogotá, Colombia.
(4)School of Medicine, Universidad del Rosario, Bogotá, Colombia.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent cause of dementia worldwide, 
disproportionately affecting women and lacking effective disease-modifying 
therapies. While traditional approaches have focused on amyloid β (Aβ) plaques 
and tau pathology, emerging evidence highlights the role of metabolic 
dysfunction, mitochondrial impairment, and hormonal signaling in the 
pathogenesis of AD. Estrogens exert neuroprotective effects by modulating 
synaptic plasticity, enhancing mitochondrial bioenergetics, and reducing 
oxidative stress and inflammation. Similarly, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor 
agonists (GLP-1RAs), initially developed for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, 
have demonstrated promising cognitive benefits, potentially mediated through 
improved insulin signaling, neuronal survival, and reduced β-amyloid (Aβ) and 
tau burden. This review explores the converging mechanisms through which 
estrogens and GLP-1RAs may act synergistically to prevent or delay the onset of 
AD. We examine the influence of sex differences in mitochondrial dynamics, 
estrogen receptor distribution, and GLP-1 signaling pathways, particularly 
within central nervous system regions implicated in AD. Preclinical studies 
using GLP-1-estrogen conjugates have shown enhanced metabolic and 
neuroprotective outcomes, accompanied by reduced systemic hormonal exposure, 
suggesting a viable therapeutic strategy. As the global prevalence of AD 
continues to rise, especially among postmenopausal women, dual agonism targeting 
estrogen and GLP-1 receptors may represent a novel, physiologically informed 
approach to prevention and intervention. Ongoing clinical trials and future 
research must consider sex-specific factors, receptor polymorphisms, and 
brain-region selectivity to optimize the translational potential of this 
combined strategy.

Copyright © 2025 Lizcano, Sanabria and Aviles.

DOI: 10.3389/fmolb.2025.1622186
PMCID: PMC12240769
PMID: 40642529

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


2. APL Bioeng. 2025 Jul 8;9(3):036102. doi: 10.1063/5.0261497. eCollection 2025 
Sep.

Frequency and duration of sensory flicker control transcriptional profiles in 
5xFAD mice.

Bitarafan S, Pybus AF, Rivera Moctezuma FG, Adibi M(1), Franklin TC(2), Singer 
AC(2), Wood LB.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, 
Georgia, USA.
(2)Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering, Emory University and 
Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 May 21:2024.05.20.594705. doi: 10.1101/2024.05.20.594705.

Current clinical trials are investigating gamma frequency sensory stimulation as 
a potential therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's disease (AD); yet, we lack a 
comprehensive picture of the effects of this stimulation on multiple aspects of 
brain function. We previously showed that exposing mice to visual flickering 
stimulation increased mitogen activated protein kinase and nuclear factor 
kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells signaling in the visual cortex 
(VC) in a manner dependent on the duration and frequency of stimulation. Because 
these pathways control multiple neuronal and glial functions, here we aimed to 
define the transcriptional effects of different frequencies and durations of 
audiovisual flicker (AV flicker) stimulation on multiple brain functions. Within 
the VC, we found that all stimulation frequencies caused fast activation of a 
module of immune genes within 0.5 h and slower suppression of synaptic genes 
after 4 h. In the hippocampus, we found that a 20 Hz AV flicker activated a 
module of genes associated with mitochondrial function, metabolism, and synaptic 
translation, while 10 Hz rapidly suppressed a module of genes linked to 
neurotransmitter activity. Collectively, our data indicate that the frequency 
and duration of AV flicker stimulation control immune, neuronal, and metabolic 
genes in multiple regions of the brain affected by AD.

© 2025 Author(s).

DOI: 10.1063/5.0261497
PMCID: PMC12240601
PMID: 40642323

Conflict of interest statement: A.C.S. owns shares of Cognito Therapeutics and 
serves on the Scientific Advisory Board. Her conflicts are managed by Georgia 
Institute of Technology. A.C.S. and L.B.W. are inventors of Systems and methods 
for driving neural activity to control brain signaling and gene expression, US 
Patent US11964109. All other authors declare they have no conflict of interest.


3. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Jul 10;11(3):e70131. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70131. 
eCollection 2025 Jul-Sep.

Correction to "The HOPE4MCI study: AGB101 treatment slows progression of 
entorhinal cortex atrophy in APOE ε4 non-carriers with mild cognitive impairment 
due to Alzheimer's disease".

[No authors listed]

Erratum for
    Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2024 Oct 11;10(4):e70004. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70004.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70004.].

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70131
PMCID: PMC12242687
PMID: 40642320


4. Extracell Vesicle. 2025 Jun;5:100082. doi: 10.1016/j.vesic.2025.100082. Epub 
2025 May 9.

Engineering ARMMs for improved intracellular delivery of CRISPR-Cas9.

Chen Z(1), Wang Q(1), Lu Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Environmental Health and Molecular Metabolism, Harvard T.H. 
Chan School of Public Health, 665 Huntington Ave., Boston, MA 02115, USA.

CRISPR-Cas9-based gene editing holds enormous promise for therapeutic 
applications, but its effectiveness is often limited by inefficient delivery 
methods. This study explores the potential of arrestin domain-containing protein 
1 (ARRDC1)-mediated microvesicles (ARMMs)-a type of extracellular vesicles 
formed at the plasma membrane-as a novel platform for packaging and delivering 
CRISPR-Cas9 complexes. We achieved efficient Cas9 packaging into ARMMs by 
directly fusing Cas9 with ARRDC1. Two different ARRDC1-Cas9 fusion constructs 
were designed, and both demonstrated gene-editing efficiency comparable to 
unmodified Cas9. The fusion with a shorter version of ARRDC1 (sARRDC1), which 
includes only the minimal motifs required for vesicle budding, proved 
particularly effective in enhancing Cas9 packaging. Additionally, the 
incorporation of vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein (VSV-G) further 
improved ARMMs budding and Cas9 encapsulation. We tested gene editing in U2OS 
cells with an exogenous GFP gene and in human neuronal cells targeting the 
endogenous amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene, which is associated with the 
Alzheimer's disease. The combination of ARMMs and VSV-G resulted in high editing 
efficiency, with ARMMs targeting the APP gene in neuronal cells significantly 
reducing pathogenic amyloid peptides. These results highlight ARMMs as a 
versatile and effective platform for CRISPR-Cas9 delivery, with strong potential 
for therapeutic applications in neurodegenerative and other genetic diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vesic.2025.100082
PMCID: PMC12245188
PMID: 40642206

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests Q.L. was co-founder and 
shareholder of Vesigen Therapeutics. Q.W. and Q.L. are co-inventors on a patent 
application: PCT/US2020/52784, Minimal arrestin domain containing protein 1 
(ARRDC1) constructs, filed on September 25, 2020 by Harvard University. The 
application is pending United States Patent and Trademark Office review. Q.W. 
was an employee of Vesigen Therapeutics.


5. Front Immunol. 2025 Jun 26;16:1582119. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1582119. 
eCollection 2025.

Gut microbiota-driven neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease: from mechanisms 
to therapeutic opportunities.

Lei W(#)(1)(2), Cheng Y(#)(1), Liu X(#)(3), Gao J(1), Zhu Z(4), Ding W(5)(6), Xu 
X(5)(6), Li Y(1), Ling Z(1), Jiang R(7), Chen X(7).

Author information:
(1)Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious 
Diseases, State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious 
Diseases, National Clinical Research Center for Infectious Diseases, the First 
Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang, China.
(2)Jinan Microecological Biomedicine Shandong Laboratory, Jinan, 
Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Intensive Care Unit, The First Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(4)Department of Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health and Management, 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, 
Nantong, Jiangsu, China.
(6)Medical School of Nantong University, Nantong, Jiangsu, China.
(7)Department of Intensive Care Unit, Lishui Second People's Hospital, Lishui, 
Zhejiang, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques, tau hyperphosphorylation, and 
chronic neuroinflammation. While neuroinflammation-mediated by microglial and 
astrocyte activation-has long been considered a secondary response to Aβ 
pathology, emerging evidence positions it as a primary driver of cognitive 
decline. Notably, the gut microbiota, through the microbiota-gut-brain axis 
(MGBA), is crucial in modulating neuroinflammation. Dysbiosis disrupts gut 
barrier integrity, promotes systemic inflammation, and exacerbates 
neuroinflammatory responses, thereby accelerating AD progression. Recent 
advances reveal that gut microbiota-derived metabolites (e.g., short-chain fatty 
acids, lipopolysaccharides) directly influence microglial activation and Aβ 
aggregation. These findings have opened new therapeutic possibilities, with 
microbiota-targeted approaches such as probiotics, prebiotics, and fecal 
microbiota transplantation demonstrating promising neuroprotective effects in 
preclinical studies by reducing neuroinflammation and preserving cognitive 
function. However, translating these findings into clinical applications 
requires further validation through randomized controlled trials. This review 
summarizes the current understanding of gut microbiota-driven neuroinflammation 
in AD, from molecular mechanisms to potential therapeutic strategies. Targeting 
the MGBA represents a paradigm shift in AD management, emphasizing the 
modulation of neuroinflammation and pathological progression through gut 
microbiota interventions. The discussion also addresses existing research 
challenges and outlines future directions to advance this promising field.

Copyright © 2025 Lei, Cheng, Liu, Gao, Zhu, Ding, Xu, Li, Ling, Jiang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1582119
PMCID: PMC12241022
PMID: 40642089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


6. Front Immunol. 2025 Jun 26;16:1572468. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1572468. 
eCollection 2025.

Integrative bioinformatics and machine learning approaches reveal oxidative 
stress and glucose metabolism related genes as therapeutic targets and drug 
candidates in Alzheimer's disease.

Noor F(#)(1), Aslam S(#)(2), Piras IS(3), Tremblay C(2), Beach TG(2), Serrano 
GE(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, The University of Lahore, 
Lahore, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Pathology, Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, 
AZ, United States.
(3)Neurogenomics Division, Translational Genomics Research Institute, Phoenix, 
AZ, United States.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, has 
treatments that slow but do not stop cognitive decline. Additional treatments 
are based on its pathogenic mechanisms are needed. Evidence has long highlighted 
oxidative stress and impaired glucose metabolism as crucial factors in AD 
pathogenesis. Therefore, in this study we aimed to find key AD pathogenic 
pathways combining genes involved in oxidative stress and glucose metabolism as 
well as potential small-molecule therapeutic agents.
METHODS: Using autopsy brain RNA sequencing data (GSE125583) derived from the 
Arizona Study of Aging and Brain and Body Donation Program, AD-related genes 
were identified via differential gene expression, pathway and coexpression 
analysis. Oxidative stress and glucose metabolism genes were correlated to 
pinpoint module genes. GSE173955 was used an independent dataset was used for 
validation, conducting molecular docking, assessing hub genes for AD, and 
integrating machine learning approaches.
RESULTS: We identified 13,982 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in AD 
patients. Through WGCNA coexpression analysis, 1,068 genes were linked to 
AD-specific modules. Pearson's correlation analysis highlighted 99 genes 
involved in oxidative stress and glucose metabolism. Overlap analysis of DEGs, 
module genes, and these metabolic genes revealed 21 key overlapping targets. PPI 
network and receiving operating curve (ROC) curve analyses then identified AKT1 
and PPARGC1A as diagnostic hub genes for AD. Machine learning-based virtual 
screening of small molecules identified various inhibitors and enhancers with 
drug-like potential targeting AKT1 (upregulated) and PPARGC1A (downregulated), 
respectively. Among others, the Random Forest model was the most reliable for 
predicting molecular activity. Molecular docking further validated the binding 
affinities of these small molecules (inhibitors/enhancers) to AKT1 and PPARGC1A.
CONCLUSION: This study identified AKT1 and PPARGC1A as potential therapeutic 
targets in AD. We discovered drug candidates with strong binding affinities, 
offering new avenues for effective AD treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2025 Noor, Aslam, Piras, Tremblay, Beach and Serrano.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1572468
PMCID: PMC12241127
PMID: 40642087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


7. Brain Commun. 2025 Jun 20;7(4):fcaf253. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf253. 
eCollection 2025.

Cerebrospinal fluid proteomic profiling of cognitively unimpaired individuals 
with suspected non-Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology.

Delvenne A(1), Gobom J(2)(3), Reus LM(4), Dobricic V(5), Ten Kate M(4)(6), 
Schindler SE(7)(8), Ramakers I(1), Tijms BM(4), Vandenberghe R(9)(10), 
Schaeverbeke J(9)(10), Martinez-Lage P(11), Tainta M(11), Teunissen CE(12), Popp 
J(13)(14), Peyratout G(13), Tsolaki M(15), Freund-Levi Y(16)(17)(18), Lovestone 
S(19), Streffer J(20)(21), Barkhof F(6)(22), Bertram L(5), Blennow 
K(2)(3)(23)(24), Zetterberg H(2)(3)(25)(26)(27)(28), Visser PJ(1)(4)(29), Vos 
SJB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, Alzheimer Centrum Limburg, 
School for Mental Health and Neuroscience, Maastricht University, Maastricht 
6229 ER, The Netherlands.
(2)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal 
431 80, Sweden.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal 431 41, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Neurology, Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam 1081 HZ, The Netherlands.
(5)Lübeck Interdisciplinary Platform for Genome Analytics, University of Lübeck, 
Lübeck 23562, Germany.
(6)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam 1081 BT, The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO 63110, USA.
(8)Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA.
(9)Neurology Service, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium.
(10)Department of Neurosciences, Laboratory for Cognitive Neurology, KU Leuven, 
Leuven 3000, Belgium.
(11)Centre for Research and Memory Clinic, Fundación CITA-Alzhéimer Fundazioa, 
Donostia-San Sebastián Gipuzkoa 20009, Spain.
(12)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Neurochemistry Laboratory, Amsterdam 
University Medical Centers (AUMC), Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam 1081 HV, 
Netherlands.
(13)Old Age Psychiatry, University Hospital Lausanne, Lausanne 1005, 
Switzerland.
(14)Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics, Psychiatry 
University Hospital Zürich, Zürich 8008, Switzerland.
(15)1st Department of Neurology, AHEPA University Hospital, Medical School, 
Faculty of Health Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki 
546 36, Greece.
(16)Department of Neurobiology, Caring Sciences and Society (NVS), Division of 
Clinical Geriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm 141 57, Sweden.
(17)Department of Psychiatry in Region Örebro County and School of Medical 
Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health, Örebro University, Örebro 703 62, 
Sweden.
(18)Department of Old Age Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's 
College, London SE5 8AB, United Kingdom.
(19)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2JD, United 
Kingdom.
(20)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Reference Center for Biological Markers 
of Dementia (BIODEM), University of Antwerp, Antwerp 2610, Belgium.
(21)H. Lundbeck A/S, Valby 2500, Denmark.
(22)Queen Square Institute of Neurology and Centre for Medical Image Computing, 
University College London, London WC1N 3BG, United Kingdom.
(23)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris 75013, France.
(24)Division of Life Sciences and Medicine, and Department of Neurology, 
Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Institute on Aging and Brain 
Disorders, University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated 
Hospital of USTC, Hefei, Anhui 230026, PR China.
(25)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London 
WC1N 3BG, United Kingdom.
(26)Fluid Biomarker Laboratory, UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London 
W1T 7NF, United Kingdom.
(27)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(28)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI 53792, USA.
(29)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm 141 57, Sweden.

Suspected non-Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology (SNAP) is a biomarker-based 
concept describing individuals with abnormal tau and/or neurodegeneration 
markers but normal amyloid levels. SNAP is common in individuals with normal 
cognition (NC), but its underlying pathophysiology is understudied, while being 
relevant for clinical trial design and treatment approaches. We aimed to 
investigate the pathophysiology of individuals with NC who are amyloid-negative 
and tau-positive (SNAP) through cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteomics. Two 
hundred and ninety-one individuals with NC were classified based on CSF amyloid 
β1-42 and phosphorylated tau 181, as amyloid-negative/tau-negative (controls), 
amyloid-negative/tau-positive (SNAP), amyloid-positive/tau-negative and 
amyloid-positive/tau-positive. We measured 3102 proteins in CSF using tandem 
mass tag proteomic analyses. We compared protein abundance between groups using 
analysis of covariance and identified enriched biological pathways using Gene 
Ontology. We also examined differences between groups in genetic risk for 
Alzheimer's disease, estimated using polygenic risk scores based on genome-wide 
association study data. SNAP individuals with NC showed mostly increased protein 
levels (n = 360) compared with controls, mainly associated with neuroplasticity, 
angiogenesis, and protein modification and degradation. The proteomic profile of 
SNAP was similar to that of amyloid-positive/tau-positive individuals, while 
distinct from amyloid-positive/tau-negative individuals, who showed mainly 
decreased proteins associated with neuroplasticity. Higher levels of amyloid 
β1-40 and amyloid β1-42 were observed in SNAP compared with the three other 
groups. Polygenic risk scores analyses showed no significant differences between 
SNAP, amyloid-positive/tau-negative, and amyloid-positive/tau-positive 
individuals, while SNAP showed some genetic differences from controls, which 
were driven by APOE. Individuals with NC and SNAP or 
amyloid-positive/tau-positive status showed similar CSF proteomic profiles, 
while amyloid-positive/tau-negative individuals showed a distinct CSF proteomic 
profile. This suggests that tau, rather than amyloid, might be the main driver 
of the proteomic profiles in SNAP and other amyloid/tau subgroups. This may have 
implications for future proteomic studies and clinical trial design, as these 
findings highlight the importance of considering tau status in future studies.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf253
PMCID: PMC12242384
PMID: 40641595

Conflict of interest statement: A.D. received funding from Alzheimer Nederland 
(grant number WE.15-2022-01). J.G. has nothing to disclose. S.E.S. has analyzed 
data provided by C2N Diagnostics to Washington University. She has served on 
scientific advisory boards for Eisai. M.t.K. has nothing to disclose. L.M.R. was 
funded by the Memorabel fellowship (ZonMW (the Netherlands Organisation for 
Health Research and Development) projectnumber: 10510022110012). V.D. has 
nothing to disclose. B.M.T. has nothing to disclose. TLSB has 
investigator-initiated research funding from the National Institutes of Health, 
the Alzheimer’s Association, the Barnes-Jewish Hospital Foundation and Siemens. 
She participates as a site investigator in clinical trials sponsored by Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly, Biogen, Eisai, Janssen, and Roche. She serves 
as a consultant to Biogen, Lilly, Eisai, and Siemens. CC has nothing to 
disclose. C.E.T. has nothing to disclose. I.R. has nothing to disclose. P.M.-L. 
has nothing to disclose. M.T. has nothing to disclose. R.V.’s institution has 
clinical trial agreements (R.V. as PI) with Alector, Biogen, Denali, Eli Lilly, 
Johnson & Johnson and UCB (Union Chimique Belge). R.V.’s institution has 
consultancy agreements (R.V. as Data Safety Monitoring Board member) with AC 
Immune. J.S. is a senior postdoctoral fellow [12Y1623N] of FWO (Research 
Foundation Flanders). J.S. receives funding from Stichting Alzheimer Onderzoek 
[SAO-FRA 2021/0022]. S.E.S. has nothing to disclose. EDR has nothing to 
disclose. J.P. served as a consultant and at advisory boards for the Nestlé 
Institute of Health Sciences, Ono Pharma, OM Pharma, Schwabe Pharma, Lilly, 
Roche, and Fujirebio Europe. All his disclosures are unrelated to the present 
work. The VD cohort was supported by grants from the Swiss National Research 
Foundation (SNF 320030_204886), Synapsis Foundation—Dementia Research 
Switzerland (Grant number 2017-PI01). G.P. has nothing to disclose. M.T. has 
nothing to disclose. Y.F.-L. has nothing to disclose. S.L. has nothing to 
disclose. J.S. has nothing to disclose. F.B. is a steering committee or Data 
Safety Monitoring Board member for Biogen, Merck, Eisai and Prothena, an 
advisory board member for Combinostics, Scottish Brain Sciences, a consultant 
for Roche, Celltrion, Rewind Therapeutics, Merck, Bracco. F.B. has research 
agreements with Alzheimer's Disease Data Initiative, Merck, Biogen, GE 
Healthcare, Roche. F.B. is co-founder and shareholder of Queen Square Analytics 
LTD. L.B. has nothing to disclose. K.B. has served as a consultant and at 
advisory boards for AC Immune, Acumen, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, 
Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche 
Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees 
for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational 
materials and participated in educational programmes for AC Immune, Biogen, 
Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Programme, outside the work presented in this paper. H.Z. has served 
at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, 
Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, 
AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, 
Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red 
Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, 
and Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche, and is a co-founder of 
Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Programme (outside submitted work). P.J.V. received funding 
from the European Commission, IMI 2 Joint Undertaking (JU), AMYPAD, grant n° 
115952; European Commission, IMI 2 JU, RADAR-AD, grant n°806999; European 
Commission, IMI 2 JU, EPND, grant n°101034344. The IMI JU receives support from 
the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA. 
P.J.V. received also funding from Zon-MW, Redefining Alzheimer's disease, grant 
n°733050824736; and Biogen (Amyloid biomarker study group). Grants were paid to 
the university. S.J.B.V. received funding from ZonMW (the Netherlands 
Organisation for Health Research and Development; SNAP VIMP grant n°7330505021), 
Stichting Adriana van Rinsum-Ponssen, and the European Platform for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases (EPND) project, which received funding from the 
European Commision, IMI 2 Joint Undertaking (JU) under grant agreement 
n°101034344. The IMI JU receives support from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 
research and innovation programme and European Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Industries and Associations.


8. J Prim Care Community Health. 2025 Jan-Dec;16:21501319251342636. doi: 
10.1177/21501319251342636. Epub 2025 Jul 11.

"Those Gray Areas of Healthcare": Primary Care Perspectives of Obstacles that 
Influence Decision Making with Families of African American Persons Living with 
Dementia.

Bonds Johnson K(1), Daniel G(1), Campbell M(2), Hernandez K(1), Alexander K(1), 
Hepburn K(1), Wurapa J(3), Small Wurapa K(4), Grant K(5), Ellis A(5), Braswell 
L(6), Johnson TM 2nd(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(2)School of Nursing, Linfield University, Portland, OR, USA.
(3)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, School of Medicine, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(4)Path 2 HEALthy, Gahanna, OH, USA.
(5)School of Nursing, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(6)Emory Rehabilitation Hospital, Emory Healthcare, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(7)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, Emory School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA, USA.

INTRODUCTION/OBJECTIVES: African American persons living with Alzheimer's 
disease and related dementias (ADRD) experience health disparities in health 
care decision making. This study's objective is to understand what influences 
health care decision making for African American persons living with ADRD from 
the perspectives of primary care providers and care team members.
METHODS: Twenty primary care providers and care team members completed 
semi-structured interviews to identify barriers associated with their 
involvement in health care decision making for African American persons living 
with ADRD. The interviews were analyzed with directed content analysis.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Three themes were identified: Systemic Healthcare 
Obstacles; Relational Healthcare Obstacles; and Individual Health Care 
Obstacles. The themes diverged to yield 9 categories (Inability to See/Hesitancy 
to Address Racism; Care Coordination at End of Life; Perceived Lack of Trust; 
Inadequate Answers and Connections; Uncertainty with Decision Making; Racial and 
Ethnic Identity; Lived Experiences; Definition of a Good Decision; and Hurt 
Feelings) and 2 subcategories (Cultural Miscommunication and Time to Build 
Mutual Understanding). To effectively support decision making processes for 
African American persons living with ADRD, there is a need to equip primary care 
providers and care team members with means to identify and address obstacles at 
multiple levels.

DOI: 10.1177/21501319251342636
PMCID: PMC12254628
PMID: 40641440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


9. Arch Pharm (Weinheim). 2025 Jul;358(7):e70046. doi: 10.1002/ardp.70046.

Click Chemistry-Aided Synthesis of Triazole-Tethered Benzothiazoles as Novel 
Multifunctional Agents Against Alzheimer's Disease.

Elbadawi MM(1)(2), Elgazar AA(3), Hefny AA(4)(5), Abdulla MH(6), Bin Traiki 
T(6), Roshdy E(2)(7), Al-Sanea MM(8), Abe M(2), Eldehna WM(1), Rao PPN(4), Hamdi 
A(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kafrelsheikh 
University, Kafrelsheikh, Egypt.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Advanced Science and Engineering, 
Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kafrelsheikh University, 
Kafrelsheikh, Egypt.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Health Sciences Campus, University of Waterloo, Ontario, 
Waterloo, Canada.
(5)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Beni-Suef University, 
Beni-Suef, Egypt.
(6)Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.
(7)Medicinal Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Minia University, Minia, 
Egypt.
(8)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, Jouf University, 
Sakaka, Aljouf, Saudi Arabia.
(9)Department of Pharmaceutical Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura 
University, Mansoura, Egypt.

In the current medical era, Alzheimer's disease (AD) stands as a challenging 
multifaceted neurodegenerative disorder characterized by diverse pathological 
features that necessitate the development of multi-target directed ligands 
(MTDLs) as a promising therapeutic approach. This study reports the design and 
synthesis of triazole-tethered benzothiazole derivatives (10a-r and 11a-e) as 
MTDLs for AD. These molecules have been evaluated for their potential to inhibit 
cholinesterases, amyloid-β (Aβ) aggregation, and their reactive oxygen species 
(ROS) scavenging ability. Benzothiazoles 10f, 10l, and 11c exhibited good 
inhibition of human acetylcholinesterase (hAChE) with IC50 values of 100, 110, 
and 140 nM, respectively, and were better than tacrine (IC50 = 160 nM). 
Furthermore, they inhibited Aβ42 aggregation with percent inhibition of 49.4%, 
45.1%, and 39.3%, respectively. It should be emphasized that the most potent 
hAChE and Aβ42 dual inhibitors, 10f and 10l, displayed efficient antioxidant 
activities (57.2% and 47.5%, respectively) and were better than resveratrol 
(40.8%). Noteworthy, the developed molecules were not cytotoxic to mouse 
hippocampal neuronal cells (HT22) at 25 µM, with cell viability ranging from 
79.2% to 113.3%, highlighting their potential to be considered as novel 
scaffolds for CNS drug development. A molecular docking study proposed that 10f 
and 10l interacted with both the catalytic and peripheral active sites of hAChE 
similar to donepezil and displayed favorable binding. Also, the docking study 
suggested the binding mode of 10f to Aβ40 and Aβ42. These results show that 
benzothiazoles 10f and 10l are promising candidates for the development of novel 
MTDLs for the effective management of AD.

© 2025 Deutsche Pharmazeutische Gesellschaft.

DOI: 10.1002/ardp.70046
PMID: 40641142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Int J Mol Med. 2025 Sep;56(3):139. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2025.5580. Epub 2025 Jul
 11.

Lipid metabolism in microglia: Emerging mechanisms and therapeutic opportunities 
for neurodegenerative diseases (Review).

Sun Y(1), Wei K(1), Liao X(2), Wang J(1), Gao L(1), Pang B(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Jining Medical University, Rizhao, Shandong 276826, P.R. 
China.
(2)Gao Shixian National Famous Chinese Medicine Expert Inheritance Studio, 
Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, Jilin 130117, P.R. China.

Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease 
and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, are characterized by progressive neuronal 
loss and neuroinflammation, with microglial dysfunction emerging as a central 
driver of pathogenesis. Microglia, the central nervous system‑resident immune 
cells, exhibit dual pro‑inflammatory and anti‑inflammatory phenotypes, 
dynamically regulated by lipid metabolic reprogramming. Chronic activation of M1 
microglia exacerbates neuronal damage, while M2 microglia promote tissue repair 
via phagocytic clearance and neurotrophic factor secretion. Lipid 
dysregulation‑marked by ceramide accumulation, cholesterol esterification 
defects and oxidized lipid‑driven neuroinflammation‑critically modulates 
microglial polarization. Mechanistic studies reveal that mitochondrial 
dysfunction, lysosomal stress and ferroptosis intersect with lipid metabolic 
pathways to amplify neurotoxicity. Therapeutic strategies targeting lipid 
homeostasis, such as TREM2 agonism, demonstrate efficacy in preclinical models 
by restoring microglial function and mitigating pathology. This review 
synthesizes emerging evidence linking microglial lipid metabolism to NDD 
progression, highlighting novel biomarkers and therapeutic avenues to disrupt 
the lipid‑neuroinflammation axis in neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2025.5580
PMCID: PMC12270380
PMID: 40641139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


11. Arch Pharm (Weinheim). 2025 Jul;358(7):e70034. doi: 10.1002/ardp.70034.

Synthesis, Anti-Alzheimer Evaluation and In Silico Study of 
4-Methoxyphenyl)Sulfonyl Indole Hybrid Thiosemicarbazones.

Ghaffar U(1), Batool Z(1), Tasleem M(1), Sadeghian N(2), Taslimi P(2), Mali 
SN(3), Dahlous KA(4), Jawarkar RD(5), Gurav SS(6), Zhao X(7), Munir I(1), Shafiq 
Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chemical Sciences, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, 
Pakistan.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Science, Bartin University, Bartin, 
Turkey.
(3)School of Pharmacy, D.Y. Patil University (Deemed to be University), Navi 
Mumbai, India.
(4)Department of Chemistry, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Dr. Rajendra Gode Institute of Pharmacy, 
Amravati, India.
(6)Department of Chemistry, VIVA College, Virar, Maharashtra, India.
(7)School of Biological and Chemical Engineering, Zhejiang University of Science 
and Technology, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifaceted neurological disorder linked to 
behavioral, psychological, and language abnormalities as well as memory loss. A 
series of 1-[(4-methoxyphenyl)sulfonyl]-1H-indole-3-carbaldehyde-based 
thiosemicarbazones 5(a-v) had been synthesized and screened for their potential 
against AD. The compounds were tested for their inhibitory effects against 
cholinesterases (AChE and BChE) and monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A). Compounds 5l, 
5v, and 5r showed remarkable activity on AChE, BChE, and MAO-A enzymes, having 
IC50 values ranging between 1.57 and 4.56 nM (Ki = 1.43 ± 0.44 to 
3.43 ± 0.21 nM), between 25.68 and 35.06 nM (Ki = 22.53 ± 7.70 to 
34.82 ± 2.32 nM), and between 22.98 and 27.23 nM, respectively. Compound 5l with 
trifluoromethyl substitution at the 3 and 5 positions was the most effective 
derivative of AChE and BChE, having Ki values of 1.43 ± 0.44 nM and 
22.53 ± 7.70 nM, respectively. Compound 5v with chloro substitution at the 2 and 
6 positions of the phenyl ring was the most potent inhibitor of MAO-A, with IC50 
values of 22.98 nM. Structure-activity analysis exhibited that the 
electron-withdrawing substituents and di-substitution on the phenyl ring play a 
significant role in the inhibition potential of synthesized compounds. The most 
effective inhibitors' binding interactions with the active sites of AChE, BChE, 
and MAO-A were described via molecular docking studies. In silico ADME, 
pharmacokinetics, and drug-likeness studies were conducted and compared with the 
standard drugs galantamine and clorgyline.

© 2025 Deutsche Pharmazeutische Gesellschaft.

DOI: 10.1002/ardp.70034
PMID: 40641099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70479. doi: 10.1002/alz.70479.

Spotlight on Alzheimer's disease and related dementias research in East Asia.

Le W(1), Shen L(2), Guo T(3), Xie F(4).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Program, Sir Run-Run Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University School of 
Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, China.
(3)Institute of Neurological and Psychiatric Disorders, Shenzhen Bay Laboratory, 
Gaoke Innovation Center, Shenzhen, China.
(4)Department of Nuclear Medicine & PET Center, Huashan Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China.

With a burgeoning dementia burden driven by unique demographic, genetic, and 
socioeconomic factors of East Asia, the region has made significant investments 
in understanding disease mechanisms, developing biomarkers, and exploring 
therapeutic approaches. This collection highlights the current landscape of 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias research in East Asia, including 
region-specific epidemiological insights, advances in plasma biomarkers and 
neuroimaging, and innovative diagnostic and treatment strategies. Despite 
progress, challenges such as limited access to advanced imaging, cultural 
barriers to autopsy, and disparities in healthcare persist.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70479
PMCID: PMC12245723
PMID: 40641055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


13. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2025 Jul 9. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273378092250623064748. Online ahead of print.

Targeting Microglial Phagocytosis for Alzheimer's Disease Management: Natural, 
Pharmacological, Nanoparticle, and Gene Therapy Approaches.

Raghuvanshi S(1), Mazumder A(1), Das S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology 
(Pharmacy Institute), Knowledge Park-II, Greater Noida, 201306 Uttar Pradesh, 
India.

Persistent swelling in the brain, internal tau bundles, and external 
Amyloid-Beta (Aβ) deposits are characteristics of Alzheimer's Disease (AD), an 
ongoing neurodegenerative illness. Microglia are the main immune cells in the 
CNS (Central Nervous System). They keep the brain stable by keeping an eye on 
the immune system and removing apoptotic cells and protein clusters through a 
process called phagocytosis. However, in AD, microglia exhibit dysregulated 
phagocytic activity, resulting in either insufficient Aβ clearance or 
exacerbated inflammatory responses, both of which contribute to 
neurodegeneration. This review examines key molecular pathways, such as those 
mediated by TREM2 (Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells), APOE 
(Apolipoprotein E), and CD33 (Cluster of Differentiation), that govern 
microglial activation and influence their neuroprotective or neurotoxic 
functions. We further explore therapeutic strategies to modulate microglial 
phagocytosis, pharmacological agents (such as minocycline, pioglitazone, 
rifampicin, etc.), some natural agents, gene-editing tools, and nanomedicine, 
which aim to optimise microglial response and reduce the neuroinflammatory 
burden in AD. Despite promising advances, challenges persist in achieving 
targeted, effective modulation of microglial function due to microglial 
heterogeneity, limited model fidelity, and potential off-target effects. This 
review underscores the importance of refining microglia-targeted interventions 
and developing combinatory approaches that enhance microglial homeostasis to 
mitigate AD pathology and progression.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273378092250623064748
PMID: 40641018


14. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2025 Jul 9. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273376581250626003322. Online ahead of print.

Tau Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease: Bridging Molecular Mechanisms and Targeted 
Therapies.

Dahiya M(1), Yadav M(2), Kumar A(1), Goyal C(1).

Author information:
(1)University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, UGC Centre of Advanced 
Studies (UGC-CAS), Panjab University, Chandigarh 160014, India.
(2)Amity Institute of Pharmacy, Amity University, Haryana, Amity Education 
Valley, Gurugram, Manesar, Panchgaon, Haryana, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the leading cause of dementia, is characterized by 
β-amyloid (Aβ) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles of hyperphosphorylated tau. 
While Aβ-targeting therapies have been a primary focus of drug development, 
their long-term efficacy remains uncertain. Emerging evidence suggests that 
tauopathy is more closely linked to cognitive decline, positioning tau as a 
promising therapeutic target. Tauopathies, a group of neurodegenerative 
disorders marked by tau dysfunction and aggregation, were historically 
attributed to a toxic gain-of-function. However, clinical trials targeting tau 
have yielded limited success, likely due to the heterogeneity of tau pathology, 
variable patient responses, and suboptimal therapeutic strategies. Here, we 
underline the need for a refined understanding of tau biology to develop 
effective interventions. Advancing precision medicine approaches and identifying 
optimal tau species for therapeutic intervention could transform tau-targeting 
therapies into a cornerstone in managing tauopathies. By integrating insights 
from genetics, pathology, and translational research, future efforts may 
overcome current challenges and unlock novel treatment avenues, ultimately 
improving patient outcomes.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273376581250626003322
PMID: 40641016


15. Fluids Barriers CNS. 2025 Jul 10;22(1):72. doi: 10.1186/s12987-025-00688-z.

Restoring brain barriers: an innovative approach for treating neurological 
disorders.

Lemarchant S(1), Engelhardt B(2), Cicchetti F(3)(4), Bix GJ(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), 
Janus A(10), Godfrin Y(10), Blasco H(11), Campbell M(12), de Rus Jacquet 
A(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Axoltis Pharma, Lyon, 69008, France. slemarchant@axoltis.com.
(2)Theodor Kocher Institute, University of Bern, Bern, 3012, Switzerland.
(3)Centre de Recherche du CHU de Québec, Université Laval, Axe Neurosciences, 
Québec, QC, G1V 4G2, Canada.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, Université 
Laval, Québec, QC, G1V 0A6, Canada.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Clinical Neuroscience Research Center, Tulane 
University School of Medicine, New Orleans, LA, USA.
(6)Tulane Brain Institute, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, 
LA, USA.
(8)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Tulane University School of 
Medicine, New Orleans, LA, USA.
(9)Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, New Orleans, 
LA, USA.
(10)Axoltis Pharma, Lyon, 69008, France.
(11)UMR 1253 iBrain, Université de Tours, Inserm, Tours, 37000, France.
(12)Smurfit Institute of Genetics, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland.
(13)Centre de Recherche du CHU de Québec, Université Laval, Axe Neurosciences, 
Québec, QC, G1V 4G2, Canada. aurelie.jacquet@crchudequebec.ulaval.ca.
(14)Department of Psychiatry and Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, Université 
Laval, Québec, QC, G1V 0A6, Canada. aurelie.jacquet@crchudequebec.ulaval.ca.

The complex etiology of neurological disorders is a major challenge to the 
identification of therapeutic candidates. Tackling brain vascular dysfunction is 
gaining attention from the scientific community, neurologists and pharmaceutical 
companies, as a novel disease-modifying strategy. Here, we provide evidence that 
at least 41% of neurological diseases and related conditions/injuries display a 
co-pathology of blood-brain and blood-spinal cord barrier alterations and 
dysfunctions, and we discuss why this figure may represent only a fraction of a 
larger phenomenon. We further provide clinical evidence that barrier status may 
contribute to pathological and functional outcomes in patients. Finally, we 
discuss drug candidates under development to repair brain barriers.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12987-025-00688-z
PMCID: PMC12243347
PMID: 40640916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: SL and AJ are 
employed by Axoltis Pharma and are respectively chief scientific officer and 
chief medical officer of the company. YG is chief executive officer and a 
shareholder of Axoltis Pharma. BE, GB, FC and MC are members of the scientific 
advisory board (SAB) of Axoltis Pharma. BE and MC are members of the SAB of 
Neuvasq Biotechnologies. As employees, chief executive officer, or SAB members 
of companies working on drug candidates for barrier repair in neurological 
disorders, we have deliberately chosen to stay neutral on the third part of this 
review by just reporting factual elements without interpretation and comparison 
of the mechanisms of action of the drug candidates being developed, to avoid any 
conflict of interest. Ethics approval: Not applicable. Consent to publication: 
Not applicable. Consent to participate: Not applicable.


16. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Jul 10;20(1):82. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00867-4.

Biomarkers and therapeutic strategies targeting microglia in neurodegenerative 
diseases: current status and future directions.

Noh MY(#)(1)(2), Kwon HS(#)(3), Kwon MS(#)(4), Nahm M(#)(5), Jin HK(6), Bae 
JS(7), Kim SH(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Hanyang University, 222, 
Wangsimni-Ro, Seongdong-Gu, Seoul, 04763, Republic of Korea.
(2)Cell Therapy Center, Hanyang University Medical Center, Wangsimniro 222-1, 
Seoul, 04763, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Hanyang University Guri Hospital, Hanyang University 
College of Medicine, 153, Gyeongchun-Ro, Guri-Si, Gyeonggi-Do, 11923, Republic 
of Korea.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Research Institute of Basic Medical Science, 
School of Medicine, CHA University, CHA Bio Complex, 335 Pangyo, Gyeonggi-do, 
13488, Republic of Korea.
(5)Dementia Research Group, Korea Brain Research Institute, Daegu, 41062, 
Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Laboratory Animal Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Kyungpook National University, Daegu, 41566, Republic of Korea.
(7)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Kyungpook National University, 
Daegu, 41944, Republic of Korea.
(8)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Hanyang University, 222, 
Wangsimni-Ro, Seongdong-Gu, Seoul, 04763, Republic of Korea. 
kimsh1@hanyang.ac.kr.
(9)Cell Therapy Center, Hanyang University Medical Center, Wangsimniro 222-1, 
Seoul, 04763, Republic of Korea. kimsh1@hanyang.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

Recent advances in our understanding of non-cell-autonomous mechanisms in 
neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) have highlighted microglial dysfunction as a 
core driver of disease progression. Conditions such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson's disease (PD), and 
frontotemporal dementia (FTD) share features of impaired microglial 
phagocytosis, chronic neuroinflammation, and metabolic dysregulation. These 
insights have prompted new therapeutic strategies targeting microglial function 
and emphasized the need for reliable biomarkers to monitor disease progression 
and treatment response. Well-established therapeutic targets, such as triggering 
receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), progranulin (PGRN), and sortilin 
(SORT1), along with emerging candidates including LILRB4, P2Y6R, TAM receptors, 
and neuroinflammation-related markers, are discussed alongside novel blood, 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and imaging biomarkers. Despite notable progress, 
many of these biomarkers remain restricted to preclinical studies and face 
translational challenges due to species-specific differences, lack of 
standardization, and clinical heterogeneity. Emerging technologies-including 
single-cell omics, spatial transcriptomics, and artificial intelligence 
(AI)-driven integration of multimodal data-offer new opportunities to align 
biomarker profiles with evolving disease states and improve patient 
stratification. Building on the model of companion diagnostics (CDx) in 
oncology, integrating multimodal biomarker strategies holds promise for guiding 
personalized interventions, improving clinical outcomes, and deepening our 
mechanistic understanding of microglial contributions across the 
neurodegenerative spectrum.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00867-4
PMCID: PMC12247225
PMID: 40640892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


17. Geroscience. 2025 Jul 11. doi: 10.1007/s11357-025-01776-6. Online ahead of 
print.

Nervonic acid and 15-epi-PGA1 mediate systemic mitochondrial dysfunction in AD 
dementia.

Heimler SR(1), Amick KA(2), Bergstrom J(1), Moliné M(1), Mahapatra G(1)(2), 
Craft S(2), Molina AJA(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, Gerontology, and Palliative Care, Department of 
Medicine, University of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, MC0665, La 
Jolla, CA, 92093, USA.
(2)Section On Gerontology and Geriatrics, Department of Internal Medicine, Wake 
Forest Baptist Medical Center, 1 Medical Center Blvd, Winston-Salem, NC, 27157, 
USA.
(3)Division of Geriatrics, Gerontology, and Palliative Care, Department of 
Medicine, University of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, MC0665, La 
Jolla, CA, 92093, USA. ajmolina@health.ucsd.edu.
(4)Sam and Rose Stein Institute for Research On Aging, University of California, 
San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA. 
ajmolina@health.ucsd.edu.

Systemic mitochondrial dysfunction is apparent in the pathophysiology of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the factors driving bioenergetic decline 
remain unclear. This study utilized serum samples from older adults with normal 
cognition, mild cognitive impairment, and dementia to identify circulating 
molecules that can drive mitochondrial dysfunction in the context of AD. We used 
mass spectrometry to measure the abundance of lipid metabolites and applied 
tiered selection criteria to identify candidate "mito-inhibitory" molecules. 
These criteria were based on correlations with (1) in vitro bioenergetic effects 
of whole serum samples on naïve cells, (2) the bioenergetic capacity of blood 
cells from the serum donor, and (3) cognition, as measured by the modified 
mini-mental state exam. Mito-inhibitory lipid candidates were validated by 
examining their bioenergetic effects on neurons, myoblasts, and fibroblasts in 
vitro. Our results indicate that nervonic acid and 15-epi Prostaglandin A1 
(15-epi-PGA1) are elevated in participants with dementia compared to those with 
normal cognition. Importantly, both metabolites inhibited mitochondrial function 
across multiple cell types in vitro. High resolution respirometric analyses 
reveal that inhibitory effects from lipid treatment occur via broad inhibition 
of the electron transfer system (ETS) with no change in overall mitochondrial 
content. This study provides insights into the mechanisms underlying systemic 
bioenergetic decline associated with AD dementia. The identification of 
circulating factors that drive mitochondrial bioenergetic decline may inform the 
development of mitochondrial therapeutics for AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-025-01776-6
PMID: 40640460

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All human subjects provided informed consent. This study utilized 
the Wake Forest School of Medicine’s Alzheimer’s Disease Clinical Core (ADCC) 
cohort (IRB00025540; Title: Alzheimer’s Disease Clinical Core/“The Healthy Brain 
Study”; approval date: 1–8-2014/6–5-2024). Consent for publication: We consent 
to the publishing agreement. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


18. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;12(8):100259. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100259.  Epub 2025 Jul 9.

Comment by European Alzheimer's Disease Consortium (EADC) investigators on the 
negative recommendation of the CHMP on the marketing authorization of donanemab 
for early Alzheimer' s disease.

Jessen F(1), Arbizu J(2), Boada M(3), Balasa M(4), Bennys K(5), Boban M(6), 
Bürger K(7), Chincarini A(8), Cagnin A(9), De Deyn PP(10), Düzel E(11), 
Engelborghs S(12), Ewers M(13), Exalto LG(14), van der Flier WM(15), Fortea 
J(16), Frederiksen KS(17), Frisoni GB(18), Frölich L(19), Garza-Martinez AJ(20), 
Grimmer T(21), Hanseeuw B(22), Hort J(23), Ivanoiu A(22), Kehoe PG(24), Kennelly 
SP(25), Kern S(26), Klöppel S(27), Krajčovičová L(28), Kramberger MG(29), 
McGuinness B(30), Mecocci P(31), Oberstein TJ(32), Ousset PJ(33), Paquet C(34), 
Perneczky R(35), Piazza F(36), Plantone D(37), Rainero I(38), Sacco G(39), 
Salmon E(40), Santana I(41), Scarmeas N(42), Schneider A(43), Schott JM(44), 
Solje E(45), Stefanova E(46), Stögmann E(47), Strauss M(48), Sutovsky S(49), 
Waldemar G(50), Winblad B(51).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cologne, Medical Faculty, Cologne, 
Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn/Cologne, 
Germany. Electronic address: frank.jessen@uk-koeln.de.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Navarre Clinic, 
Pamplona-Madrid, Spain; Navarra Institute for Health Research (IdiSNA), 
Pamplona, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Spain; Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona, Universitat Internacional de 
Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Spain; Alzheimer's disease and other cognitive disorders Unit, 
Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, Fundació Recerca Clínic Barcelona-IDIBAPS, Spain.
(5)Memory Research Ressources Center for Alzheimer's disease, Cognitive 
Behavioral Neurology Unit, University Hospital Montpellier, France.
(6)Department of Cognitive Neurology, University Hospital Centre Zagreb, School 
of Medicine, University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.
(7)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research, University Hospital, LMU Munich, 
Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(8)National Institute for Nuclear Physics (INFN), Genova, Italy.
(9)Department of Neuroscience and Padua Neuroscience Center, University of 
Padua, Italy.
(10)Laboratory of Neurochemistry and Behavior, Experimental Neurobiology unit, 
Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Antwerp and Memory Clinic 
Antwerp, ZAS Antwerp, Belgium.
(11)Institute of Cognitive Neurology and Dementia Research, Univ of Magdeburg, 
Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Magdeburg, Germany.
(12)Department of Neurology, Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel and NEUR Research 
Group, Center for Neurosciences (C4N), Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), 
Brussels, Belgium; Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Antwerp, 
Antwerp, Belgium.
(13)Michael Ewers, Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research, University 
Hospital, Ludwig Maximilian University Munich, Germany.
(14)Department of Neurology, UMC Utrecht Brain Center, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands; Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; 
Julius Clinical, Zeist, the Netherlands.
(15)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Epidemiology and Data Science, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(16)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Neurology Department, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques Sant Pau, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat Autònoma 
de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(17)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Copenhagen University hospital 
-Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Clinical Medicine, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(18)Memory Center, Geneva University and University Hospitals, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(19)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, Central Institute of Mental Health, 
Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Germany.
(20)Servicio de Geriatría, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal (IRICYS), 
Madrid, Spain.
(21)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, TUM University Hospital, School 
of Medicine and Health, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(22)Department of Neurology, Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, Institute of 
Neurosciences, Université catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.
(23)Department of Neurology, Charles University, Second Medical Faculty and 
Motol University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(24)Cerebrovascular and Dementia Research Group, Bristol Medical School, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(25)Tallaght Institute of Memory and Cognition, Tallaght University Hospital, 
Dublin, Ireland; Department of Medical Gerontology, School of Medicine, Trinity 
College Dublin, Ireland.
(26)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy at the 
University of Gothenburg, Sweden; Region Västra Götaland, Sahlgrenksa University 
Hospital, Department of Neuropsychiatry, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(27)University Hospital of Hold Age Psychiatry, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(28)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University and Saint 
Anne´s University Hospital, Brno, Czech Republic.
(29)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center, Medical faculty, 
Ljubljana University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia; Karolinska Institutet, 
Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society (NVS), Division of 
Clinical Geriatrics, Huddinge, Sweden.
(30)Centre for Public Health, Institute of Clinical Sciences B, Queen's 
University Belfast, UK.
(31)Division of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine and Surgery, 
University of Perugia, Italy; Division of Clinical Geriatrics, NVS Department, 
Karolinska Institutet Stockholm, Sweden.
(32)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Uniklinikum Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.
(33)Institut Hospitalo Universitaire HealthAge, Alzheimer's Disease Research and 
Clinical Center, Toulouse University Hospital, Toulouse, France.
(34)Cognitive Neurology Center, GHU APHP Nord Lariboisière Fernand-Widal, 
Université de Paris Cité - INSERM 1144, Faculty of Medicine, Paris, France.
(35)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Munich, Munich, Germany; 
Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital, LMU Munich, 
Munich, Germany; Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), 7 Munich, 
Germany; Ageing Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, UK; Sheffield Institute for Translational 
Neuroscience (SITraN), University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(36)CAA and AD Translational Research and Biomarkers Laboratory, School of 
Medicine and Surgery, University of Milano Bicocca, Monza, Italy.
(37)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Neuroscience, University of Siena, 
Italy.
(38)Memory Clinic, Department of Neuroscience "Rita Levi Montalcin", University 
of Torino, Italy.
(39)Université Côte d'Azur, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nice, Clinique 
Gériatrique du cerveau et du mouvement, Centre Mémoire de Ressources et de 
Recherche, Nice, France; Université Côte d'Azur, INSERM, CNRS, IPMC, Equipe 
AlzPark, Nice, France.
(40)Memory Clinic, Liege University Hospital, Liege, Belgium.
(41)Faculty of Medicine,University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; Department of 
Neurology, Hospital da Universidade de Coimbra, ULS de Coimbra, Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(42)1st department of Neurology, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, Aiginitio Hospital, Athens, Greece; Department of 
Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(43)Department of Old Age Psychiatry and Cognitive Disorders, University 
Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(DZNE), Bonn, Germany.
(44)Dementia Research Centre,Queen Square Instiute of Neurology, London, UK; UK 
Dementia Research Institute, UK.
(45)Institute of Clinical Medicine - Neurology, University of Eastern Finland, 
Kuopio, Finland; Neuro Center - Neurology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(46)University of Belgrade, Faculty of Medicine, Serbia.
(47)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Austria.
(48)Université libre de Bruxelles (ULB), Hôpital Universitaire de Bruxelles 
(H.U.B), CUB Hôpital Érasme, Service de Neurologie, Bruxelles, Belgium.
(49)1st Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Comenius University and 
University Hospital, Bratislava, Slovakia.
(50)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurology, Copenhagen 
University Hospital - Rigshospitalet, Denmark; Department of Clinical Medicine, 
University of Copenhagen, Denmark.
(51)Div of Neurogeriatrics, Dept NVS, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm and Theme 
Inflammation & Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge, Sweden.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100259
PMCID: PMC12413728
PMID: 40640062

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Frank Jessen: 
FJ has received grants from Roche Pharma and Roche Diagnostics; FJ has received 
consulting fees from Eli Lilly and Eisai; FJ has received payment or honoraria 
for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Eli Lilly and Eisai; FJ has received payment for expert testimony 
from Eli Lilly and Eisai; FJ is Chairman of the EADC. Javier Arbizu: JA has 
received research funding paid to University of Navarre Clinic from Siemens 
Healthineers, GE Healthcare, and PET tracer from Life Molecular Imaging; 
consultancy fees from Novartis and Eli Lilly; and received speaker honoraria 
from Biogen, Novartis, Life Molecular Imaging, Roche, Novo Nordisk, Siemens 
Healthineers, GE Healthcare, Zambon. Mercé Boada: MB has received consulting 
fees from Grifols, Araclon Biotech, Roche, Biogen, Lilly, Merck, Zambon, Novo 
Nordisk; MB has received payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Roche, Biogen, 
Grifols, Nutricia, Araclon Biotech, Servier, Novo Nordisk; MB participated in 
Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory of Board Grifols, Roche, Lilly, Araclon 
Biotech, Merck, Zambon, Biogen, Novo Nordisk, Bioiberica, Eisai, Servier, 
Schwabe Pharma, Lighthouse Pharma. Mircea Balasa: No COI. Karim Bennys has 
received grants to his institution from Acadia Pharmaceuticals, Alzheon Inc., 
Araclon Biotech S.L., AstraZeneca, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eisai Inc., Eli 
Lilly, Genentech, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Hoffmann- La Roche, INmune Bio Inc., 
Janssen Research & Development, Medesis Parma, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Nestlé, 
Novartis Pharmaceuticals, Novo Nordisk, TauRx Therapeutics Ltd, UCB Biopharma. 
Marina Boban has received grants from 4BrainFlames project, EU fund Research 
(managed by institution), Croatian Science Foundation Research (managed by 
institution). Katharina Bürger: Honoraria from Eisai Germany, Lilly Germany, 
Roche; Travel support by Lilly Germany and Novo Nordisk. Andrea Chincarin: No 
COI. Annachiara Cagnin, AC received speaker honoraria from: PIAM, Eisai, GE, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche. Peter Paul De Deyn: consulted for Eisai, Biogen, and 
Perha Pharmaceuticals. Emrah Düzel: Co-Founder and interim-CEO of neotiv, 
honoraria for advisory work talks from Roche, Lilly, Eisai, Biogen. Sebastiaan 
Engelborghs: SE has received consulting fees from Biogen, Eisai (paid to 
institution), Icometrix (paid to institution), Janssen, Eli Lilly, Novartis 
(paid to institution). SE holds patent EP3452830B1 for an assay for the 
diagnosis of a neurological disease (licensed to ADX Neurosciences NV & 
Euroimmun Medizinische Labordiagnostika AG). SE is a member of SMB/SAB for 
EU-H2020 project RECAGE (unpaid) and of the DSMB of PRImus-AD (unpaid). Michael 
Ewers: ME received research funding from Eli Lilly. Lieza G. Exalto: PI at Brain 
Research Center, however not involved in lecanumab nor donanemab clinical 
trials. Wiesje M. van der Flier: WF has been an invited speaker at Biogen MA 
Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD Neurology (Medscape), Novo Nordisk, Springer 
Healthcare, European Brain Council. WF is consultant to Oxford Health Policy 
Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA Inc, Eisai, Eli-Lilly, Owkin France. WF participated 
in advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc, Roche, and Eli Lilly. WF is member of the 
steering committee of phase 3 EVOKE/EVOKE+ studies (Novo Nordisk). WF is member 
of the steering committee op phase 3 Trontinemab study (Roche). All funding is 
paid to her institution. WF is member of the steering committee of PAVE, and 
Think Brain Health. WF is chair of the Scientific Leadership Group of InRAD. WF 
was associate editor of Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 2020/2021. WF is 
associate editor at Brain. WF is member of Supervisory Board (Raad van Toezicht) 
Trimbos Instituut. Juan Fortea: JF reported serving on the advisory boards, 
adjudication committees, or speaker honoraria from AC Immune, Adamed, Alzheon, 
Biogen, Eisai, Esteve, Fujirebio, Ionis, Laboratorios Carnot, Life Molecular 
Imaging, Lilly, Lundbeck, Novo Nordisk, Perha, Roche, Zambón, Spanish 
Neurological Society, T21 Research Society, Lumind foundation, Jérôme-Lejeune 
Foundation, Alzheimer’s Association, National Institutes of Health USA, and 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III. JF reports holding a patent for markers of 
synaptopathy in neurodegenerative disease (licensed to ADx, EPI8382175.0). No 
other competing interests were reported. Kristian Steen Frederiksen: KF has 
participated in advisory boards/consulted for Novo Nordisk, Roche Diagnostics, 
Eisai/Bioarctic, Eli Lilly (paid to institution), honoraria for lectures from 
Eisai/Bioarctic, Nono Nordisk, Eli Lilly (paid to institution), Editor-in-Chief, 
Alzheimer´s Research & Therapy (Personal renumeration form Springer Nature). 
Giovanni B Frisoni: GBF has received funding through the University of Geneva or 
Geneva University Hospitals: for IISSs from ROCHE Pharmaceuticals OM Pharma 
EISAI Pharmaceuticals Biogen Pharmaceuticals and Novo Nordisk. He has received 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from: Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisk, GE HealthCare. 
All through institution. Lutz Frölich: Honoraria from Biogen, BioVie, Eisai, Eli 
Lilly, FOMF, Araclon/Grifols, Janssen Cilag, Medical Tribune, Medfora, 
Neurimmune, Noselab, Novo Nordisk, Roche, TauRX, Schwabe, StreamUp, 
Avanir/Otsuka, PharmatrophiX, Charité Berlin, Neuroscios, Vivoryon; Research 
support: Roche. Alejandro J. Garza-Martinez: No COI. Timo Grimmer: TG reported 
receiving consulting fees from Acumen, Advantage Ther, Alector, Anavex, Biogen, 
BMS; Cogthera, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Functional Neuromod., Grifols, Janssen, 
Neurimmune, Noselab, Novo Nordisk, Roche Diagnostics, and Roche Pharma; lecture 
fees from Anavex, Cogthera, Eisai, Eli Lilly, FEO, Grifols, Pfizer, Roche 
Pharma, Schwabe, and Synlab; and has received grants to his institution from 
Biogen, Eisai and Eli Lilly. Bernard Hanseeuw: consulted for Eisai, Biogen, and 
Roche. Jakub Hort: consulted for Eisai, Biogen, Roche and Eli Lilly, speakers 
honoraria from Eli Lilly, Schwabe, stock options in Alzheon. Adrian Ivanoiu: No 
COI. Patrick G Kehoe: has received Research Grants from BRACE, Alzheimer’s Brain 
Banks UK, the Bright Focus Foundation and R01AG074258 NIH (NIA); Payments made 
to the Institution for Biomedical related research projects on post mortem brain 
tissue unrelated to these drugs. Sean P Kennelly: SPK has received payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Roche, Novo Nordisk, Eisai, Biogen and Nutricia; SPK has 
received support for attending meetings and/or travel from Roche and Nutricia. 
Silke Kern: SK has served at scientific advisory boards, speaker and / or as 
consultant for Roche, Eli Lilly, Geras Solutions, Optoceutics, Biogen, Eisai, 
Merry Life, Triolab, Novo Nordisk and Bioarctic. Stefan Klöppel: SK has received 
various research grants but not related data reported; SK has received 
consulting fees from OM Pharma (Participantion dementia summit), SK has received 
payment or honoraria for lectures from OM Pharma (personal payment); 
participation on Advisory boards 2023: Advisory Board Alzheimer's Disease - 
Eisai Switzerland 2024: Advisory Board Rexulti AA – Lundbeck 2025: Advisory 
Board Alzheimer’s Disease- Eisai (personal payment). Lenka Krajčovičová: No COI. 
Milica G. Kramberger: MGK has received consulting fees from Lilly; MGKhas 
received payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from Lilly; MGK has participated in a 
Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board for Lilly. Bernadette McGuinness: 
has received consulting fees from Biogen, Lilly, Eisai (payment made 
personally); has received payment or honoraria for Chair for Lilly sponsored 
event at British Geriatrics Society meeting 2024 (payment made personally). 
Patrizia Mecocci: PM has received grants or contracts from HORIZON-JU-RIA 
Program AD-Riddle, Horizon 2020 Lethe; PM has received payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Piam, Angelini, Epitech; PM has participated in a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board Primus; PM is Treasurer Italian Academy of 
Geriatrics, Member Board of Directors SIGOT. Timo Jan Oberstein: TJO received 
lecture honoraria from: Biogen, Lilly, Siemens Healthineers. Pierre-Jean Ousset: 
has received consulting fees from Eli Lilly’s, EISAI’s, International Board and 
national board. Claire Paquet: CP has received consulting fees from Eli Lilly’s, 
EISAI’s, Roche’s, Novo Nordisk’s, UCB’s International Board and national board; 
CP has received payment or honoraria for lectures for Eli Lilly and EISAI; CP 
has received payment for expert testimony from Eli Lilly (national testimony 
with patient in April 2025). Robert Perneczky: RP has received honoraria for 
advisory boards and speaker engagements from Roche, EISAI, Eli Lilly, Biogen, 
Janssen-Cilag, Astra Zeneca, Schwabe, Grifols, Novo Nordisk and Tabuk. Fabrizio 
Piazza: Consulting fees, advisory board fees, and educational activities, paid 
to the University of Milano Bicocca, with Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Roche, 
Biogen, Alector, Lilly, Araclon, Eisai. FP is the inventor, without ownership, 
of the amyloid-beta antibody ultrasensitive assay. Domenico Plantone: DP 
received travel reimbursments from Fujirebio Italia srl. Innocenzo Rainero: IR 
has recevied consulting honoraria from Eli Lilly. Guillaume Sacco: has received 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from EISAI and Biogen, has received support for 
attending meetings and/or travel from Biogen and BMS. Eric Salmon: Advisory 
Board for Biogen, Eisai, Will Pharma. Isabel Santana: IS has received funding 
through the University of Coimbra: for IISSs from FCT (National Agency for 
Research), ROCHE Pharmaceuticals OM Pharma Biogen Pharmaceuticals . She has 
received payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers or bureaus, 
from: Biogen, Lilly, EISAI, Novo Nordisk. Nikolaos Scarmeas: Novo Nordisk - 
Local PI of recruiting site for multinational, multicenter industry sponsored 
phase III treatment trial for Alzheimer's disease - funding to institution. Anja 
Schneider: Research Grant from Eisai (2020-2023), SAB for Biogen CELIA study, 
received honoraria from Eisai and Biogen. Jonathan M Schott: JMS has received 
research funding and PET tracer from AVID Radiopharmaceuticals (a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Eli Lilly) and Alliance Medical; has consulted for Roche, Eli 
Lilly, Biogen, MSD and GE; and received royalties from Oxford University Press 
and Henry Stewart Talks. He is an NIHR Senior Investigator and Chief Medical 
Officer for Alzheimer’s Research UK. Eino Solje: E. Solje has served on the 
advisory board of Novartis, EISAI, Lilly and Roche, served as a consult for Novo 
Nordisk, BioaArctic, EISAI, Lilly and Roche and received honoraria from for 
lectures from Lundbeck, BioaArctic and Roche and travel support from Lilly. Elka 
Stefanova: ES has received grants from AACSFD-17–533520, IGPCC-B-1262787, 
National Grant Republic of Serbia (451–03–66/2024-03/200110) (payment made to 
the institution); ES has received support for attending meetings and/or travel 
from Teva, Goodwil Pharma, Krka (payment made to the institution). Elisabeth 
Stögmann`s institution (Medical University of Vienna, Austria) received 
financial support by research grants for research in AD: Eisai, EU Horizon 2020, 
Austrian Research Promotion Agency). Elisabeth Stögmann`s institution (Medical 
University of Vienna, Austria) received financial support for participation in 
clinical trials from Biogen, Novo Nordisk and Roche Diagnostics. Elisabeth 
Stögmann received honoraria (consultations, lectures, speakers bureaus, 
educational events, advisory boards) from pharmaceutical companies: Biogen, 
Roche, Novo Nordisk, Eisai, Novartis, Sanofi and Lilly. Elisabeth Stögmann held 
leadership in scientific societies: Austrian Alzheimer Association. Mélanie 
Strauss: consulted for Eisai. Stanislav Sutovsky No COI. Gunhild Waldemar: GW 
reported no conflicts of interest. Bengt Winblad: BW serves as member of 
Scientific Advisory Boards (SABs) for Alzinova, Axon Neuroscience, Artery 
Therapeutics, Phanes Biotech and is a member of the DSMB for Primus-AD. BW has 
stocks in Artery Therapeutics and AlzeCure.


19. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2025 Aug 1;46(8):1521-1527. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A8738.

Clinical Role of Brain PET in Alzheimer Disease in the Era of Disease-Modifying 
Therapies.

Franceschi AM(1), Keir G(2), Benzinger TLS(3), Cogswell PM(4), Ali FZ(5), 
Petrella JR(6), Prescott JW(7), Whitlow CT(8), Zaharchuk G(9), Allen JW(10); 
American Society of Functional Neuroradiology (ASFNR).

Author information:
(1)From the Neuroradiology Division, Department of Radiology, Donald and Barbara 
Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell (A.M.F., G.K.), Lenox Hill 
Hospital, New York, New York afranceschi@northwell.edu.
(2)From the Neuroradiology Division, Department of Radiology, Donald and Barbara 
Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell (A.M.F., G.K.), Lenox Hill 
Hospital, New York, New York.
(3)Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology (T.L.S.B), Washington University in Saint 
Louis, St Louis, Missouri.
(4)Department of Radiology (P.M.C.), Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(5)Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology (F.Z.A.), University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.
(6)Division of Neuroradiology, Department of Radiology (J.R.P.), Duke University 
School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina.
(7)Department of Radiology (J.W.P.), Case Western Reserve University MetroHealth 
Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio.
(8)Department of Radiology (C.T.W.), Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
(9)Department of Radiology (G.Z.), Stanford University, Stanford, California.
(10)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences (J.W.A.), Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Alzheimer disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia, with an estimated 6.9 
million Americans aged 65 and older living with Alzheimer dementia today, with 
this number projected to grow to 13.8 million by 2060. Amyloid and τ 
accumulation underpin our understanding of the pathophysiology of AD, with the 
abnormal accumulation of these proteins leading to neurodegeneration. With the 
recent approval of antiamyloid monoclonal antibody therapies for patients with 
early-stage Alzheimer disease by the Food and Drug Administration, there is 
renewed energy and focus on brain imaging for diagnosis, triage, and monitoring 
of patients with neurodegenerative disease. Furthermore, PET imaging of amyloid 
and τ has revolutionized our understanding of dementia progression and staging, 
and influences patient management in the clinical setting. We aim to update 
radiologists on the evolving role of amyloid and τ PET in clinical practice, 
emphasizing the need for standardized workflows and the integration of molecular 
imaging data with other disease biomarkers. We also discuss the clinical 
implications of amyloid and τ PET, including their impact on diagnosis and 
treatment decisions, as well as the challenges of reimbursement and workforce 
capacity. With recent shifts in the AD management landscape, it is crucial for 
radiologists to keep abreast of recent advances in clinical practice, thereby 
ensuring effective patient care.

© 2025 by American Journal of Neuroradiology.

DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A8738
PMCID: PMC12453502
PMID: 40639970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Am J Med Sci. 2025 Oct;370(4):405-406. doi: 10.1016/j.amjms.2025.07.002. Epub
 2025 Jul 8.

Intranasal administration of stem cell therapy: A promising approach for early 
Alzheimer's disease intervention.

Fatima E(1), Fatima A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Services Institute of Medical Sciences, Lahore, 
Pakistan. Electronic address: eeshal.fatima5@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Medicine, Sargodha Medical College, Sargodha, Pakistan. 
Electronic address: anousheyfatima22@gmail.com.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjms.2025.07.002
PMID: 40639583

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


21. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 15;1003:177922. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177922. 
Epub 2025 Jul 8.

Piperine improves learning deficit through modulation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling 
pathway: Involvement of the dorsal hippocampus serotonin-1A receptors.

Ghasemi A(1), Saadinezhad A(1), Halalkhor S(2), Sadeghi F(3), Hosseini SM(4), 
Karami M(5), Hosseinzadeh S(6).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Babol University of Medical 
Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(3)Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center, Health Research Institute, 
Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(4)Department of Pathology, Babol Branch, Islamic Azad University, Babol, Iran.
(5)Department of Animal Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture, Chalous Branch, 
Islamic Azad University, Chalous, Iran.
(6)Department of Neurosciences and Addiction Studies, School of Advanced 
Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
Electronic address: Hoseinzadeh_soheila@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: In the hippocampal region, piperine raised serotonin levels. 
Nevertheless, little is currently understood about how piperine acts through the 
Wnt/β-catenin pathway and regulates neurogenesis.
METHODS: Electroencephalogram electrodes were implanted in the frontoparietal 
and hippocampal regions of a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced rat model of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). The involvement of serotonin-1A receptors in 
hippocampus was evaluated by microinjection of 1 μL of 
[8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin 
(8OH-DPAT)/N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl) 
cyclohexane-carboxamide (WAY-100635), in the mediation of the behavioral effects 
of piperine at 1, 10, and 50 μg/ml, 30 min before the probe trial and before 
recording. The left hemisphere was placed in 10 % formalin to make a tissue 
incision. To identify potential genes regulated by the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, 
the right hippocampal tissue was dissected on a cold phosphate-buffered saline 
plate and stored in the freezer.
RESULTS: Memory-enhancing effect of piperine at 50 μg/ml, was efficiently 
prevented by the 8OH-DPAT. Moreover, the animals in the Saline/8OH, AD/Pip50, 
and AD/WAY/Pip50 groups demonstrated notably higher mean absolute power in 
theta, beta, and gamma frequencies than the AD/Tween, AD/8OH, and AD/8OH/Pip50. 
Neuroprotection was induced morphologically in the dentate gyrus following 
co-administration of WAY-100635 and 50 μg/ml of piperine. The expression of 
serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 was significantly higher in the 
AD/Tween and AD/8OH groups than the Saline/8OH groups. The administration of 
WAY-100635 and piperine 50, markedly increased the expression of the c-myc gene.
CONCLUSIONS: Understanding more about the signal transduction pathways 
associated with piperine may develop a strategy for treating symptoms and 
pathological conditions related to AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177922
PMID: 40639477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest


22. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2025 Sep;26(9):105744. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2025.105744. 
Epub 2025 Jul 17.

Family Caregiver Availability and Capacity Associated With Home Health Service 
Types for Patients With Dementia.

Burgdorf JG(1), Wolff JL(2), Barrón Y(3), Amjad H(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Home Care Policy & Research at VNS Health, New York, NY, USA. 
Electronic address: julia.burgdorf@vnshealth.org.
(2)Department of Health Policy & Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Center for Home Care Policy & Research at VNS Health, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Division of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the relationship between unmet needs for family 
caregiver support, defined as lack of caregiver availability or capacity, and 
home health care (HH) service types delivered to patients with dementia.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study of national claims and assessment data.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: 325,148 older adults (aged ≥65 years) with diagnosed 
dementia receiving Medicare-funded HH in 2018.
METHODS: Service types were measured from Medicare claims and refers to patient 
receipt of each of 6 service types covered during HH: nursing, physical therapy, 
occupational therapy, speech therapy, social work, and personal care aide. We 
fit multivariable logistic regression models estimating the odds of receiving 
each service type as a function of unmet caregiving needs and patient and HH 
agency characteristics, while clustering at the HH agency level.
RESULTS: In adjusted models, lack of caregiver availability to help with 
medical, functional, or instrumental tasks was associated with higher odds of 
receiving skilled nursing [adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 1.63, 95% CI 1.47-1.81], 
aide (aOR 1.61, 95% CI 1.54-1.68), and social work (aOR 2.71, 95% CI 2.56-2.86), 
respectively. Lack of caregiver capacity to help with medical, functional, or 
instrumental tasks was associated with higher odds of receiving skilled nursing 
(aOR 1.29, 95% CI1.20-1.39), physical therapy (aOR 1.74, 95% CI1.68-1.81), and 
social work (aOR 1.24, 95% CI 1.17-1.28), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: We observed significant associations between unmet 
needs for caregiving support and HH service delivery for patients with dementia. 
Expanding HH quality measurement and risk adjustment data elements to include 
measures of caregiver availability and capacity are necessary steps toward 
supporting HH providers' efforts to meet patients' needs regardless of their 
caregiving context.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2025.105744
PMCID: PMC12355437
PMID: 40639429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors declare no conflicts of 
interest.


23. J Trace Elem Med Biol. 2025 Aug;90:127692. doi: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2025.127692. 
Epub 2025 Jul 3.

The close relationship between trace elements (Cu, Fe, Zn, Se, Rb, Si, Cr, and 
V) and Alzheimer's disease: Research progress and insights.

Mao Y(1), Zhang L(2), Zhang C(2), Qin L(2), Liao X(3), Zhao L(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guizhou University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Guiyang 550025, PR China; Guangxi Innovation Center of Zhuang Yao 
Medicine, Guangxi University of Chinese Medicine, Nanning 530200, PR China.
(2)Guangxi Innovation Center of Zhuang Yao Medicine, Guangxi University of 
Chinese Medicine, Nanning 530200, PR China.
(3)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guizhou University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Guiyang 550025, PR China; Guangxi Innovation Center of Zhuang Yao 
Medicine, Guangxi University of Chinese Medicine, Nanning 530200, PR China; Key 
Laboratory of Guangxi Medicinal and Food Resources Development, Nanning 530200, 
PR China. Electronic address: liaoxy_8506@163.com.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guizhou University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Guiyang 550025, PR China. Electronic address: hyzlc@126.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a typical neurodegenerative disorder primarily 
characterized by the deposition of β-amyloid (Aβ) plaques and the 
hyperphosphorylation of tau protein, leading to the formation of neurofibrillary 
tangles (NFTs). These pathological changes are closely associated with the 
imbalance of trace element homeostasis. Trace elements are extensively involved 
in fundamental physiological processes, including DNA synthesis, protein 
synthesis, energy metabolism, and enzymatic reactions, all of which are 
essential for cognitive function and brain development. This review summarizes 
the alterations in homeostasis and the biological roles of trace elements such 
as copper, iron, zinc, selenium, rubidium, silicon, chromium, and vanadium, as 
well as their relationship with the onset and progression of AD. Additionally, 
we discuss recent advancements in therapeutic strategies targeting the balance 
of trace element ions, including metal chelators, supplements, nanomedicines, 
and small-molecule drugs, to provide new perspectives for AD research and 
treatment.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2025.127692
PMID: 40639271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest in this manuscript.


24. Science. 2025 Jul 10;389(6756):eadv8269. doi: 10.1126/science.adv8269. Epub
2025  Jul 10.

Glymphatic dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease: A critical appraisal.

Keil SA(1)(2)(3), Jansson D(1), Braun M(4), Iliff JJ(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.
(2)VISN 20 Mental Illness Research, Education and Clinical Center (MIRECC), VA 
Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Brain Health Imaging Institute, Weill Cornell 
Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, 
Augusta, GA, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle, WA, USA.

Thirteen years after the initial publication defining the glymphatic system, we 
critically reappraise the role of its dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Our understanding of glymphatic function and its involvement in the pathogenesis 
of AD derives primarily from correlative clinical data and rodent studies. A 
causal role for glymphatic dysfunction in AD has not yet been established in 
humans. We review current approaches to assess glymphatic function clinically, 
which capture different features of perivascular fluid dynamics or their 
results. The absence of clinically suitable imaging approaches to measuring 
glymphatic exchange in the human brain is an obstacle to evaluating whether 
glymphatic function is impaired in AD populations and to developing and 
evaluating therapeutics to modulate glymphatic function in the treatment and 
prevention of AD.

DOI: 10.1126/science.adv8269
PMID: 40638744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Jul 1;8(7):e2519771. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.19771.

Systemic Strategies to Prevent Nonbeneficial Treatments Near the End of Life.

Weiss Goitiandia S(1)(2), Sun AZ(3)(4), Rosenwohl-Mack A(2), Ly C(1), Sleeman 
KE(5), Dohan D(2), Dzeng E(1)(5)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hospital Medicine, University of California, San Francisco.
(2)Philip R. Lee Institute for Health Policy Studies, University of California, 
San Francisco.
(3)Department of Geriatrics and Extended Care, Division of Palliative and 
Hospice Care, Tibor Rubin VA Medical Center, Long Beach, California.
(4)Division of Hospice and Palliative Medicine, University of California, 
Irvine, Orange.
(5)Cicely Saunders Institute, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.19777.

IMPORTANCE: There exists a default toward high-intensity treatments near the end 
of life in the United States, including for people living with advanced dementia 
(PLWD). Clinical momentum, a cascade of increasingly intensive treatments 
facilitated by systemic factors, contributes to this default. The intensity of 
treatments provided to PLWD near the end of life is lower in Great Britain. 
Using Great Britain as a counterexample to the United States, this study 
examines factors that may contribute to lower-intensity treatment patterns.
OBJECTIVE: To understand factors within the British health care system that 
shape treatment intensity for PLWD.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This qualitative study used semistructured, 
in-depth interviews with clinicians at 1 National Health Service (NHS) trust in 
South London and with caregivers of PLWD in England and Wales. Interviews were 
conducted between February 2021 and February 2023. Perspectives on factors 
influencing treatment escalation decisions in PLWD were elicited. Data were 
analyzed using thematic analysis.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was the individual-, 
institutional-, and system-level factors that affect treatment escalation 
decisions among PLWD in Great Britain.
RESULTS: A total of 13 clinicians (11 [84.6%] women; 3 [23.1%] Asian or Asian 
British, 1 [7.7%] Black, Black British, Caribbean, or African, and 9 [69.2%] 
White; median [range] years in practice, 26 [8-35]) and 14 caregivers (8 [57.1%] 
women; 3 [21.4%] Asian or Asian British, 2 [14.3%] Black, Black British, 
Caribbean, or African, and 8 [57.1%] White; median [IQR] age among 13 who 
provided data, 32 [28-45] years) participated. Caregiver respondents discussed 
individual-level factors preventing escalation to high-intensity treatments 
(transparent communication and knowledge of dementia trajectory). Clinician and 
caregiver respondents described institutional-level factors (eg, protocols, 
resources, and practices) and system-level factors (eg, national policies, laws, 
and cultural norms) shaping treatment escalation decision-making.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this qualitative study of clinicians and 
caregivers in Great Britain, respondents reported individual-, institutional-, 
and system-level factors that they perceived to both independently and 
collectively prevent potentially nonbeneficial treatment escalation, including 
to life-sustaining treatments, and facilitate deescalation in PLWD. These 
factors created structured opportunities for clinicians and caregivers to 
deliberate on decisions to escalate treatment intensity. The convergence of 
these factors generated a clinical practice pattern minimizing escalation toward 
high-intensity treatments in PLWD, referred to here as clinical deceleration, in 
contrast to the default clinical momentum observed in the United States.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.19771
PMCID: PMC12246877
PMID: 40638117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Dzeng 
reported receiving grants from the California Department of Public Health 
(Alzheimer’s Disease Research Award) during the conduct of the study. Dr Dohan 
reported receiving grants from the National Institutes of Health (NIH)/National 
Institute on Aging during the conduct of the study and outside the submitted 
work. No other disclosures were reported.


26. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Jul 1;8(7):e2519919. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.19919.

Cerebrospinal Fluid Amyloid and Tau Biomarker Changes Across the Alzheimer 
Disease Clinical Spectrum.

de Leeuw DM(1)(2), Trieu C(1)(2)(3), Vromen EM(1)(2), Blujdea ER(3), Verberk 
IMW(3), Duits FH(1)(2), Teunissen CE(3), Pijnenburg YAL(1)(2), van der Flier 
WM(1)(2), van Harten AC(1)(2), Visser PJ(1)(2)(4)(5), Tijms BM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam University Medical Center, Location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Neurochemistry Lab and Biobank, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Location VUmc, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Alzheimer Centrum Limburg, Maastricht University, Maastricht, Netherlands.
(5)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of 
Neurogeriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

IMPORTANCE: The trajectories of core Alzheimer disease (AD) cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) biomarkers and the concurrent cognitive changes across the clinical 
spectrum remain unclear yet are important for clinical trial design.
OBJECTIVE: To map longitudinal CSF amyloid, tau, and cognitive trajectories 
along the clinical spectrum of AD and amyloid-negative controls.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This longitudinal cohort study included 
participants with a minimum of 2 CSF samples from Alzheimer Centrum Amsterdam 
cohorts across the AD clinical spectrum (ie, abnormal amyloid levels at first 
visit, in different clinical stages) and cognitively normal controls with 
initially normal CSF markers from November 2003 to July 2019. The maximum 
follow-up period was 19.5 years (median [IQR], 2 [0-3] years). Data were 
analyzed from March 2024 to May 2025.
EXPOSURES: AD biomarkers (ß-amyloid [Aß]1-42 to Aß1-40 ratio, total tau [t-tau], 
and phosphorylated tau [p-tau]) detected in serially collected CSF.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: CSF AD biomarkers were measured with Lumipulse 
G600II. Cognition was measured using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) 
and delayed memory recall component of the of the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning 
Test. Analysis was conducted using linear mixed models, including random 
intercepts and slopes, adjusting for age, education level, and sex. Each model 
included an interaction term of time and clinical stage to study stage-specific 
slopes. Biomarker conversion rates per clinical stage were studied by comparing 
biomarker status between visits.
RESULTS: The sample included 197 individuals (103 male [52.3%]), including 83 
controls (mean [SD] age, 63 [8] years), 31 individuals with amyloid positivity 
who were cognitively unimpaired (mean [SD] age, 67 [9] years), 30 individuals 
with amyloid-positive mild cognitive impairment (MCI; mean [SD] age, 67 [7] 
years), and 53 individuals with amyloid-positive dementia (mean [SD] age, 65 [8] 
years). Aβ1-42/1-40 ratios decreased in controls (β [SE] = -8.55 × 10-4 
[1.87 × 10-4]; P < .001) and the amyloid-positive cognitively unimpaired group 
(β [SE] = -1.05 × 10-3 [3.14 × 10-4]; P < .001), and remained low in 
amyloid-positive MCI and dementia groups. There were 10 controls (12.0%) who 
reached abnormal amyloid over a mean (SD) of 4.8 (3.4) years. In controls, CSF 
t-tau (β [SE] = 8.49 [2.55] pg/mL per year; P = .002) and p-tau (β [SE] = 1.36 
[0.41] pg/mL per year; P = .001) levels increased over time, and levels also 
increased for those in the amyloid-positive cognitively unimpaired (t-tau: β 
[SE] = 17.24 [4.58] pg/mL per year; P < .001; p-tau: β [SE] = 3.10 [0.72] pg/mL 
per year; P < .001) and amyloid-positive MCI (t-tau: β [SE] = 30.80 [5.99] pg/mL 
per year; P < .001; p-tau: β [SE] = 4.40 [0.93] pg/mL per year; P < .001) 
groups, with t-tau increasing further in the dementia group (β [SE] = 24.97 
[7.80] pg/mL per year; P = .002). Longitudinal increases in p-tau and t-tau were 
steeper in the amyloid-positive cognitively unimpaired and MCI groups than in 
controls, with 10 controls (12.0%) reaching abnormal p-tau and 12 controls 
(14.5%) reaching abnormal t-tau levels. Delayed recall declined most in the 
amyloid-positive cognitively unimpaired group (β [SE] = -0.31 [0.07]; P < .001) 
and was associated with CSF amyloid levels (β [SE] = 102.29 [47.30]; P = .03). 
MMSE scores declined most in individuals with amyloid-positive MCI (β 
[SE] = -1.25 [0.12]; P < .001) and dementia (β [SE] = -1.89 [0.13]; P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this cohort study, CSF amyloid decreased toward 
abnormal levels in controls, declined further in the amyloid-positive 
cognitively unimpaired group , and was concurrent with decline of delayed 
recall; CSF amyloid stabilized in those with amyloid-positive MCI and dementia, 
while tau markers became increased (ie, more abnormal) in the amyloid-positive 
cognitively unimpaired and amyloid-positive MCI groups, suggesting that increase 
in CSF tau requires abnormal amyloid.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2025.19919
PMCID: PMC12246881
PMID: 40638114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Verberk 
reported receiving consulting fees from Neurogen Biomarking paid directly to 
Amsterdam University Medical Center and speaker fees from Quanterix paid 
directly to Amsterdam University Medical Center outside the submitted work. Dr 
Teunissen reported receiving grants from the European Commission, Alzheimer 
Association, Horizon 2020, the European Union Joint Program-Neurodegenerative 
Disease Research, Alzheimer Nederland, Health-Holland, Alzheimer’s Drug 
Discovery Foundation, ZonMW, and the Micheal J Fox Foundation; having research 
contracts with Acumen, ADx Neurosciences, AC-Immune, Alamar, Aribio, Axon 
Neurosciences, Beckman-Coulter, BioConnect, Bioorchestra, Brainstorm 
Therapeutics, C2N Diagnostics, Celgene, Cognition Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Instant Nano Biosensors, Novo Nordisk, Olink, 
PeopleBio, Quanterix, Roche, Toyama, and Vivoryon; being editor in chief of 
Alzheimer Research and Therapy; serving on editorial boards of Molecular 
Neurodegeneration, Alzheimer’s & Dementia, Neurology Neuroimmunology & 
Neuroinflammation, Medidact, and Neurologie (Springer); serving on the Committee 
to Define Guidelines for Cognitive Disturbances and the Committee for Acute 
Neurology in the Netherlands; and having consulting or speaker contracts with 
Aribio, Biogen, Beckman-Coulter, Cognition Therapeutics, Eli Lilly, Merck, Novo 
Nordisk, Olink, Roche, and Veravas outside the submitted work. Dr van der Flier 
reported receiving grants from ZonMW, Nederlandse Organisatie Voor 
Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek (Dutch Research Council), European Union Joint 
Program-Neurodgenerative Disease Research, European Union Innovative Health 
Innitiative (IHI), Alzheimer Nederland, Hersenstichting CardioVascular Onderzoek 
Nederland, Health-Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health (public-private 
partnerships allowance [grant No. LSHM20106]; all funding paid to Amsterdam 
University Medical Center), Stichting Dioraphte, Gieskes-Strijbis Fund, 
Stichting Equilibrio, Edwin Bouw Fund, Pasman Stichting, Philips, Biogen MA Inc, 
Novartis Nederland, Life Molecular Imaging, Avid Technology, Roche Nederland BV, 
Eli-Lilly Nederland, Fujifilm, Eisai, and Combinostics; and holding the Pasman 
chair (all funding paid to Amsterdam University Medical Center) outside the 
submitted work. Dr van der Flier also reported receiving grants from A 
Personalized Medicine Approach for Alzheimer's Disease, which is a 
public-private partnership receiving funding from ZonMW (grant No. 73305095007; 
all funding paid to Amsterdam University Medical Center) and TAP-Dementia, which 
receives funding from ZonMw (grant No. 10510032120003) and cofinancing from Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Roche, and Amprion (all funding paid to Amsterdam 
University Medical Center) outside the submitted work. Dr van der Flier is the 
recipient of awards from the IHI (PROMINENT award No. 101112145 and AD-RIDDLE 
award No. 101132933), awards which are supported by the IHI Joint Undertaking 
(IHI JU); the IHI JU receives support from the European Union Horizon Europe 
Research and Innovation Programme and European Coordination Committee of the 
Radiological, Electromedical and Healthcare IT Industry, European Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, EuropaBio, MedTech Europe and 
Vaccines Europe, Davos Alzheimer’s Collaborative, Combinostics Oy, Cambridge 
Cognition Ltd, C2N Diagnostics LLC, and neotiv GmbH (all funding paid to 
Amsterdam University Medical Center). Dr van der Flier also reported being an 
speaker at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD Neurology (Medscape), 
NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council (all funding paid to 
Amsterdam University Medical Center); being a consultant to Oxford Health Policy 
Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA Inc, and Eisai (all funding paid to Amsterdam 
University Medical Center); participating in advisory boards for Biogen MA Inc, 
Roche, and Eli Lilly; being a member of the steering committee of phase 3 
studies for NovoNordisk (all funding paid to Amsterdam University Medical 
Center); being a member of the steering committee of PAVE and Think Brain 
Health; being a member of the Scientific Leadership Group of InRAD; being the 
associate editor of Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 2020 and 2021; currently 
being associate editor at Brain; and being a member of the supervisory board 
(Raad van Toezicht) for the Trimbos Instituut outside the submitted work. Dr 
Harten reported receiving fees from Lilly and Eisai (paid to Amsterdam 
University Medical Center) outside the submitted work. No other disclosures were 
reported.


27. J Neurol. 2025 Jul 10;272(8):501. doi: 10.1007/s00415-025-13232-8.

Evaluating finger-prick blood collection for remote quantification of 
neurofilament light in neurological diseases.

Coleman A(#)(1), Touzé A(#)(1), Farag M(1), Pengo M(1)(2)(3), Murphy MJ(1), 
Hassan Y(1), Thackeray O(1), Fayer K(1), Field S(1), Nakajima M(1), Broom EL(1), 
Hobbs NZ(1), Huxford B(4), Donkor N(4), Camboe E(4)(5), Dey KC(4)(5), Zirra 
A(4)(5), Ahmed A(6)(7), Gameiro Costa AR(6)(7)(8), Sorrell H(6)(7)(9), Zampedri 
L(6)(7), Lombardi V(6)(7), Wade C(10), Mangion S(10), Fneich B(10), Heslegrave 
A(11), Zetterberg H(11)(12)(13)(14)(15), Scahill R(1), Noyce A(4)(5), Malaspina 
A(6)(7), Chataway J(10)(16), Tabrizi SJ(1), Byrne LM(17).

Author information:
(1)UCL Huntington's Disease Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
Queen Square, London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(2)Department of Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of Brescia, 
25123, Brescia, Italy.
(3)San Paolo University Hospital, ASST Santi Paolo e Carlo, Milan, Italy.
(4)Centre for Preventive Neurology, Wolfson Institute of Population Health, 
Queen Mary University of London, London, EC1M 6BQ, UK.
(5)Royal London Hospital, Barts Health NHS Trust, London, E1 1FR, UK.
(6)Queen Square MND Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(7)The United to End MND (U2EM) / UK MND Research Institute Consortium, London, 
UK.
(8)National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, University College London 
Hospitals, Queen Square, London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(9)University College London Hospital, 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2A, UK.
(10)Queen Square Multiple Sclerosis Centre, Department of Neuroinflammation, UCL 
Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University 
College London, London, WC1B 5EH, UK.
(11)UK Dementia Research Institute and Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Queen Square, London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(12)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(13)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(14)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, 53792, USA.
(16)National Institute for Health Research, University College London Hospitals, 
Biomedical Research Centre, London, W1T 7DN, UK.
(17)UCL Huntington's Disease Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
Queen Square, London, WC1N 3BG, UK. lauren.byrne.14@ucl.ac.uk.
(#)Contributed equally

Promising blood-based biomarkers of neuropathology have emerged with potential 
for therapeutic development and disease monitoring. However, these tools will 
require specialist tertiary services for integration into clinical management. 
Remote sampling for biomarker assessment could reduce burden of in-person 
clinical visits for such tests as well as increasing the sampling frequency and 
patient geographical outreach. Here, we evaluated a finger-prick blood 
collection approach for remote quantification of neurofilament light (NfL), a 
candidate blood-based biomarker evident in various neurological disorders, and 
other exploratory markers of neuronal injury and neuroinflammation (GFAP, tau). 
Matched samples from venepuncture and finger-prick were collected and processed 
into plasma and/or serum to directly compare analyte levels from a multi-disease 
discovery cohort (n = 54 healthy controls; n = 57 Huntington's disease (HD); 
n = 34 multiple sclerosis; n = 7 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; n = 11 
Parkinson's disease), and a HD confirmatory cohort (n = 57 healthy controls; 
n = 64 HD). Two delayed processing conditions were compared, three- and 
seven-day delay, simulating ambient shipment. Capillary NfL and GFAP 
concentrations were equivalent to those in venous serum and plasma in the 
multi-disease discovery cohort and HD confirmatory cohort. Only NfL remained 
stable after a seven-day processing delay in both venous and capillary serum 
samples. Using NfL concentrations from capillary blood, we replicated previously 
published disease group differences measured in venous blood. This data supports 
our finger-prick approach for remote collection and quantification of NfL. With 
the widespread applications for NfL across the spectrum of neurological 
disorders, this has the potential to transform disease monitoring, prognosis, 
and therapeutic development within clinical practice and research.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-025-13232-8
PMCID: PMC12245952
PMID: 40637865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: LMB holds 
consultancy contracts with Annexon Biosciences, Remix Therapeutics, PTC 
Therapeutics, Alchemab Therapeutics, Latus Bio, and LoQus23 Therapeutics Ltd via 
UCL Consultants Ltd. HZ has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a 
consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Annexon, Apellis, 
Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, and Roche, and is 
a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a 
part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). AN received 
consultancy fees during the design phase of AccessPD and reports consultancy and 
personal fees from AstraZeneca, AbbVie, Profile, Roche, Biogen, UCB, Bial, 
Charco Neurotech, Alchemab, Sosei Heptares and Britannia, outside the submitted 
work. AN is an Associate Editor for the Journal of Parkinson’s Disease. In the 
last 3 years, JC has received support from the Health Technology Assessment 
(HTA) Programme (National Institute for Health Research, NIHR), the UK MS 
Society, the US National MS Society and the Rosetrees Trust. He is supported in 
part by the NIHR University College London Hospitals (UCLH) Biomedical Research 
Centre, London, UK. He has been a local principal investigator for a trial in MS 
funded by MS Canada. A local principal investigator for commercial trials funded 
by: Ionis and Roche; and has taken part in advisory boards/consultancy for 
Biogen, Contineum Therapeutics, Lucid, Merck, NervGen, Novartis and Roche. SJT 
reports that over the past 3 years consultancy fees for advisory services were 
paid to University College London Consultants, a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
University College London from the following companies: Alchemab, Alnylam 
Pharmaceuticals, Annexon Bioscience, Arrowhead, Atalanta Therapeutics, Biogen, 
Catapult, Design Therapeutics, F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ipsen, Iris Medicine, Latus 
Bio, LifeEdit, Novartis Pharma, Pfizer, Prilenia, Prime Global, PTC 
Therapeutics, Remix, Rgenta Therapeutics, SkyHawk, Takeda Pharmaceuticals, 
Triplet Therapeutics, UniQure Biopharma, Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Vico 
Therapeutics, Wave Life Sciences. SJT has also consulted for Abingworth, 
Ascidian Therapeutics, EQT, Cure Ventures, FunctionRX, Harrisson & Star, and 
IQVIA through the office of Celtic Phenomenon. In the past 3 years, University 
College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Professor Tabrizi’s host clinical 
institution, received funding to run clinical trials for Alnylam 
Pharmaceuticals, F. Hoffman-La Roche, Novartis Pharma, PTC Therapeutics, and 
UniQure Biopharma. Ethical approval: This study complies with the Declaration of 
Helsinki and was approved by local ethics committees including The National 
Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery and the Institute of Neurology Joint 
Research Ethics Committee (HD and controls; ref: 03/N008); London—City & East 
Research Ethics committee (ALS, MS; ref: 09/H0703/27); South West – Central 
Bristol Research Ethics Committee (PD: PR 18/SW/0255). Consent to participate: 
All participants within the study gave written informed consent before blood 
collection.


28. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 10. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-025-04448-6. Online ahead of print.

A bibliometric analysis of the current research status and hotspots regarding 
Aducanumab treatment for Alzheimer's disease.

Xu D(#)(1), Wu J(#)(2), Zhao X(1), Shen J(1), Lu Z(1), Yang Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinic, School of Medicine, Yangzhou Polytechnic College, 
Yangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Interventional Radiology, Zhongshan Torch Development Zone 
People's Hospital, Zhongshan, China.
(3)Department of Orthopaedics, Shanxi Provincial People's Hospital, Shanxi, 
China. yangzhe2172656@hotmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of Alzheimer's disease is steadily increasing, and 
Aducanumab has garnered significant attention as a treatment since 2021. There 
is a growing body of research on Aducanumab and its relationship with 
Alzheimer's disease; however, there is currently a lack of bibliometric analysis 
regarding the use of Aducanumab in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
OBJECTIVE: This study employs bibliometric methods to analyze the current 
research landscape and hotspots surrounding Alzheimer's disease and Aducanumab, 
providing a reference for subsequent investigations in this field and the 
promotion of Aducanumab as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: This study retrieved articles related to Alzheimer's disease and 
Aducanumab from the WOS core database, covering the period from the 
establishment of the database until Dec 31, 2024. After a rigorous selection 
process, analyses were conducted using GraphPad Prism 10, VOSviewer, and 
CiteSpace to obtain insights into publication and citation metrics, 
collaboration networks among countries, institutions, and authors, as well as 
clustering analysis of reference papers and keywords.
RESULTS: The number of articles regarding Aducanumab treatment for Alzheimer's 
disease has been increasing annually, with a notable surge occurring after 2021. 
The three countries with the highest publication output are the United States, 
the United Kingdom, and China. The leading institutions in terms of publication 
volume are Biogen, Harvard Medical School, and the University of California, San 
Francisco. The top three authors contributing to this body of work are Poul F. 
Høilund-Carlsen, Abass Alavi, and Mona-Elisabeth Revheim. The journals with the 
highest publication rates include Alzheimer's & Dementia, the International 
Journal of Molecular Sciences, and the Journal of Alzheimer's Disease. The most 
cited article is "Lecanemab in Early Alzheimer's Disease," authored by van Dyck 
CH et al., published in 2023 in the New England Journal of Medicine. The ten 
most frequently occurring keywords are Alzheimer's disease, Aducanumab, 
dementia, amyloid-beta, immunotherapy, tau, a-beta, mouse model, amyloid, and 
mild cognitive impairment. The keyword and cluster "pharmacokinetics" currently 
represent a research hotspot in this field.
CONCLUSION: This study employs bibliometric methods to reveal the publication 
trends related to Aducanumab in the context of Alzheimer's disease, examining 
collaborations among countries, regions, and authors, as well as recent research 
hotspots. It provides objective data that serves as a reference for scientific 
research and clinical practice concerning Aducanumab treatment for Alzheimer's 
disease.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-025-04448-6
PMID: 40637746

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Patient consent statement: Not applicable. Clinical 
trial number: Not applicable. AI used: The authors confirm that no paper mill 
and no artificial intelligence was used. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


29. Neural Regen Res. 2025 Jun 19. doi: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-25-00312. Online ahead
of  print.

Rethinking dementia in the oldest old: Lessons to learn for the diagnosis and 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Bonomi CG(1), Motta C(1), Di Donna MG(1), Poli M(1), Koch G(2)(3), Martorana 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Memory Clinic and Neurodegenerative Dementia Research Unit, Policlinico Tor 
Vergata, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Rome, Italy (Bonomi CG, Motta C, Di 
Donna MG, Poli M, Martorana A).
(2)Department of Clinical and Behavioral Neurology, Santa Lucia Foundation 
IRCCS, Rome, Italy (Koch G).
(3)Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, and 
Center for Translational Neurophysiology of Speech and Communication (CTNSC), 
Italian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ferrara, Italy (Koch G).

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-25-00312
PMID: 40637583


30. Recenti Prog Med. 2025 Jul-Aug;116(7-8):407-410. doi: 10.1701/4530.45309.

[Lecanemab and Alzheimer-Perusini's disease: between therapeutic hopes and 
regulatory challenges].

[Article in Italian]

Nonino F(1), Colosimo C(2), Massacesi L(3).

Author information:
(1)UO Epidemiologia e statistica, Irccs Istituto delle Scienze neurologiche di 
Bologna.
(2)UO Neurologia e stroke unit, AO Santa Maria, Terni.
(3)Sod Neurologia d'urgenza, Azienda ospedaliero universitaria Careggi, Firenze 
- Dipartimento di Neuroscienze, psicologia, area del farmaco e salute del 
bambino, Università di Firenze.

Alzheimer-Perusini's disease (AD) represents a growing health crisis. The lack 
of effective disease-modifying treatments and its increasing prevalence in the 
elderly population contribute to a major burden for patients and their 
caregivers, challenging health systems globally. The accumulation of 
beta-amyloid protein (Aβ) within the brain tissue plays an important pathogenic 
role in the inflammatory and degenerative mechanisms leading to cognitive and 
functional impairment. In recent years monoclonal antibodies targeting (Aβ) have 
been developed and one of them (lecanemab) recently received marketing 
authorization by the European Medicines Agency (Ema). Although they represent an 
important innovation in the treatment of AD, their clinical net benefit is 
uncertain, due to modest efficacy and the threat of potentially severe side 
effects. Cost, mode od delivery and complexity of programs aimed at minimizing 
risks for people with AD may limit access to these therapies and pose equity 
issues within health systems.

DOI: 10.1701/4530.45309
PMID: 40637522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2025 Jul 10:1-12. doi:
10.1080/23279095.2025.2527732.  Online ahead of print.

Evaluation of the effects of cognitive stimulation therapy on cognitive status 
and apathy in older adults with mild cognitive impairment: A randomized 
controlled trial.

Coşkun E(1), İnel Manav A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Osmaniye Korkut Ata University, Osmaniye, Türkiye.

This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of cognitive stimulation 
therapy on cognitive status and apathy in older adults with mild cognitive 
impairment. It is a randomized controlled experimental study. The research was 
conducted in a care center located in a province in Turkey between October 30, 
2023, and December 25, 2023. A total of 62 individuals, including 31 in the 
intervention group and 31 in the control group, were included in the study, 
forming the research sample. The data for the study were collected using the 
"Personal Information Form," the "Standardized Mini-Mental Test (SMMSE)," and 
the " Apathy Rating Scale (ARS)." Cognitive Stimulation Therapy was administered 
twice a week for a total of 14 sessions in the form of group therapy. Following 
the implementation of Cognitive Stimulation Therapy, a comparison between the 
intervention and control groups revealed significant differences in post-test 
outcomes. The Standardized Mini-Mental State Examination (SMMSE) post-test 
scores averaged 24.3 ± 1.3 in the intervention group, whereas the control group 
recorded a lower mean score of 19.6 ± 1.5. Similarly, in the Alzheimer's Disease 
Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ARS), the intervention group achieved a 
mean score of 47.5 ± 3.5, compared to 36.2 ± 3.0 in the control group. It was 
determined that the mean scores of individuals in the intervention group 
increased significantly (p < 0.001). Cognitive Stimulation Therapy has been 
found to be effective in improving cognitive functions and reducing apathy 
levels in older adults with mild cognitive impairment. Therefore, it is 
recommended that psychiatric nurses providing care for geriatric individuals 
implement Cognitive Stimulation Therapy.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2025.2527732
PMID: 40637155


32. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70396. doi: 10.1002/alz.70396.

ApoE3 Christchurch and tau interaction as a protective mechanism against 
Alzheimer's disease.

Perez-Corredor P(1), Arevalo-Alquichire S(1), Mazzarino RC(1), O'Hare M(1)(2), 
Muriel-Torres AF(1), Vacano GN(3), Vanderleest TE(1), Miller WP(1), Pineda-Lopez 
L(1), Patel S(1), Obar RA(4), Polat N(1)(5), Kim LA(1), Arboleda-Velasquez 
JF(1), Marino C(1)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Schepens Eye Research Institute of Mass Eye and Ear and Department of 
Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Wellcome-Wolfson Institute for Experimental Medicine, Queen's University 
Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(3)Vacano Informatics LLC, Arvada, Colorado, USA.
(4)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Inonu University, Malatya, 
Turkey.
(6)Sealy Institute for Drug Discovery, The University of Texas Medical Branch at 
Galveston, Galveston, Texas, USA.
(7)Mitchell Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Department of Neurology, 
University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, Galveston, Texas, USA.

INTRODUCTION: We described a protected case with familial Alzheimer's disease, 
homozygous for apolipoprotein E3 (APOE3) Christchurch variant (ApoE3Ch), 
exhibiting low tau protein levels despite genetic predisposition to the disease 
due to presenilin (PSEN)1-E280A. We reported the loss of interaction between 
ApoE3Ch and heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) as a critical protective 
pathway. Here, we characterized differential interacting partners for both 
wild-type and Christchurch variants to identify additional protective mechanisms 
of ApoE3Ch.
METHODS: We performed pull-down of mouse brain lysates using His-tag-ApoE3 
recombinant proteins and determined interacting partners of ApoE3 via 
mass-spectrometry. We then performed in vitro and in vivo assays to validate the 
top interactors.
RESULTS: We found enhanced binding of ApoE3Ch to tau and Dickkopf-1 (Dkk1, a 
WNT/β-catenin antagonist) that resulted in reduced tau aggregation in vitro. We 
demonstrated that ApoE3Ch interacts directly with Dkk1 and tau, reducing tau 
pathology. These findings supported the hypothesis of novel protective effects 
of direct ApoE3Ch interactions.
HIGHLIGHTS: ⁠Apolipoprotein E3 (ApoE3) Christchurch variant (ApoE3Ch) exhibits 
different protein interaction profiles compared to wild-type ApoE3, as revealed 
by proteomic analyses and pull-down experiments. The ApoE3Ch variant alters the 
protein's interaction with tau, thus affecting its aggregation in a tau 
biosensor cell assay and the retina of microtubule-associated protein tau 
(MAPT*P301S) transgenic mice. ⁠Gene ontology and pathway analyses indicate that 
ApoE3Ch interactors are associated with brain-related disorders and specific 
upstream regulators, including MAPT, a gene encoding for tau. ⁠Protein-protein 
interaction studies showed increased binding of ApoE3Ch to Dickkopf1 (Dkk1), a 
Wnt/β-catenin pathway antagonist, as compared to ApoE3WT, thus indicating that 
multiple protective mechanisms are regulated by the ApoE3Ch variant Our study 
uncovers a novel protective effect of the ApoE3Ch variant against tau pathology, 
thus proposing new insights into Alzheimer's disease mechanisms and potential 
therapeutic targets.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70396
PMCID: PMC12242688
PMID: 40637118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. J. Arboleda‐Velasquez is listed as 
co‐inventor on a patent to leverage therapeutics based on the ApoE3 Christchurch 
findings filed by Mass General Brigham. Drs. Arboleda‐Velasquez and Kim are 
co‐founders of Epoch Biotech, a company focused on developing therapeutics 
inspired by the Christchurch variant. All other authors have no conflicts to 
disclose. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


33. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jun 25;17:1471154. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1471154.  eCollection 2025.

Modeling heterogeneity in cognitive trajectories in the Framingham Heart Study.

Fang Y(1), Chen J(2), Mez J(3)(4)(5), Satizabal CL(4)(5)(6), Alosco ML(3)(7)(8), 
Qiu WQ(3)(9)(10), Doyle MF(11), Murabito JM(5)(12)(13), Lunetta KL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Binghamton University School of 
Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, State University of New York, Binghamton, 
NY, United States.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, United States.
(3)Boston University Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and CTE Center, Boston 
University Chobanian and Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United 
States.
(4)Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian and Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, United States.
(5)Framingham Heart Study, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and Boston 
University Chobanian and Avedisian School of Medicine, Framingham, MA, United 
States.
(6)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, 
United States.
(7)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University Chobanian and 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States.
(8)Department of Neurology, Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA, United States.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Boston University Chobanian and Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, United States.
(10)Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Boston University 
Chobanian and Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States.
(11)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Larner College of Medicine, 
University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, United States.
(12)Department of Medicine, Boston University Chobanian and Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, United States.
(13)Section of General Internal Medicine, Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA, 
United States.

INTRODUCTION: The prevalence of cognitive impairment in the population is 
growing; however, there is substantial heterogeneity in the rate of decline 
across different cognitive domains. Harmonized factor scores measuring memory, 
executive function, and language domains have been created in the Framingham 
Heart Study (FHS).
METHODS: This work identified FHS participants with two or more repeated factor 
scores after age 60 and fitted latent class mixed models (LCMM) to cluster 
cognitive trajectories within each domain. Non-linear shapes of trajectories 
were modeled piecewise linearly, followed by stepwise selections to select 
cluster-specific change points.
RESULTS: We identified different latent classes of participants with early 
cognitive decline, compared to late decliners, for each domain. Ten-fold 
cross-validation yielded stable subgroupings. Our findings show 
latent-class-related differential patterns in cognitive aging in the FHS. We 
also investigated the association between identified latent classes with 
existing protein biomarkers of cognitive aging in a subsample of the study and 
found elevated levels of CD40L and CD14 were associated with a higher risk of 
early decline in memory and executive function domain, respectively.
DISCUSSION: In summary, our study advances the understanding of cognitive 
decline heterogeneity among FHS participants and sets the stage for further 
investigations into early intervention strategies and personalized approaches to 
mitigate cognitive aging risks.

Copyright © 2025 Fang, Chen, Mez, Satizabal, Alosco, Qiu, Doyle, Murabito and 
Lunetta.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1471154
PMCID: PMC12238755
PMID: 40636900

Conflict of interest statement: The author declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The reviewer CX declared a 
shared affiliation with the author(s) JC, JM, CS, MA, WQ, JMM, and KL to the 
handling editor at the time of review.


34. Front Neurosci. 2025 Jun 25;19:1598011. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1598011. 
eCollection 2025.

The role of probiotics, prebiotics, and postbiotics: cellular and molecular 
pathways activated on glial cells in Alzheimer's disease.

Patricio-Martínez A(1)(2), Patricio F(1)(3), Macuil-Chapuli E(1)(2), 
Martínez-Juárez EÁ(1)(2), Flores-Díaz S(1)(2), Cedillo-Ramírez ML(4), Limón 
ID(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología-Facultad de Ciencias Químicas-Benemérita 
Universidad Autónoma de Puebla, Puebla, Mexico.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas-Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla, 
Puebla, Mexico.
(3)Facultad de Medicina Veterinaria y Zootecnia, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma 
de Puebla, Tecamachalco, Puebla, Mexico.
(4)Centro de Detección Biomolecular, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla, 
Puebla, Mexico.

Supplementation with prebiotics and probiotics can modulate the intestinal 
microbiota, returning it to a more physiological state; therefore, they can be 
considered as a possible treatment in many prevalent conditions, including 
neurodegenerative diseases. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of 
dementia, accounting for 60 to 70% of cases. The neuropathological features of 
AD include neuritic plaques (extracellular deposits of the beta-amyloid protein, 
Aβ), neurofibrillary tangles (resulting from hyperphosphorylation of the tau 
protein), a predominantly cholinergic synaptic decrease, and the presence of 
inflammatory markers, all these characteristics together trigger the 
neurodegenerative process and cognitive deterioration. The etiology of AD is 
multifactorial, however, in recent years evidence has been shown on the 
significant association between dysbiosis, neuroinflammation, and 
neurodegeneration. In the present review, we will discuss the role of gut 
microbiota in the pathogenesis of AD, as well as the underlying mechanisms that 
trigger the use of probiotics, prebiotics, and postbiotics in neuroinflammation. 
Our attention will focus on the cellular and molecular mechanisms triggered by 
astrocytes and microglia, cells involved in mediating neuroinflammation and 
neurodegeneration in AD.

Copyright © 2025 Patricio-Martínez, Patricio, Macuil-Chapuli, Martínez-Juárez, 
Flores-Díaz, Cedillo-Ramírez and Limón.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1598011
PMCID: PMC12237913
PMID: 40636703

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that this research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


35. Health Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 9;8(7):e70975. doi: 10.1002/hsr2.70975. eCollection 
2025 Jul.

Understanding the Intersection Between Hormonal Dynamics and Brain Plasticity in 
Alzheimer's Disease: A Narrative Review for Implementing New Therapeutic 
Strategies.

Ghosson A(1)(2), Soufan F(1)(2), Kaddoura H(1)(2), Fares E(1)(2), Uwishema O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Research and Education Oli Health Magazine Organization, 
Research and Education Kigali Rwanda.
(2)Faculty of Medicine Beirut Arab University Beirut Lebanon.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Alzheimer's disease (AD), a chronic neurodegenerative 
disorder, is portrayed by neurocognitive decline in the structure and function 
of the human brain. Various factors are implicated in the pathogenesis to 
neuroplasticity alteration in the brain of an individual afflicted with AD. The 
subset of these elements known as "hormonal dynamics" is paramount in the 
pathophysiology of AD. This review dives into the complex relationship between 
hormonal dynamics and brain neuroplasticity with special handling of AD 
considering the impediments and opportunities for the implementation of 
therapeutic strategies.
METHODS: A comprehensive review was conducted using online search databases 
PubMed/Medline and ScienceDirect, identifying-with a thematic approach-articles 
handling the interaction between the hormonal fluctuation and neuroplasticity in 
AD with special consideration sought from the emerging therapeutic strategies.
RESULTS: This review reveals the influence of various hormonal fluctuations, 
including estrogens and androgens, on neuroplasticity alteration in the 
structure and function of the brain in AD. Furthermore, the forms of 
neuroplasticity and synaptic plasticity processes are significantly altered with 
underlying neuronal loss and cognitive impairment in AD. Therefore, 
pharmacological and nonpharmacological therapy approaches as virtual reality and 
repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), that promote synaptic 
plasticity advancements, play a key role in decreasing the rate of deterioration 
and progression in AD.
CONCLUSION: Apprehending the intricate interactions between hormonal dynamics 
and neuroplasticity of the brain is necessary for advancing targeted 
therapeutics for AD. Upcoming studies should be directed toward the 
pathophysiological mechanism of hormonal neuroprotection and regeneration with 
the long-term effects of hormonal replacement therapies, advocating personalized 
management plans. It should also work on identifying specific imaging and 
biological markers for the monitoring of HRT. Furthermore, other influences such 
as environmental, epigenetic, physical, and psychological illness should be 
tackled.

© 2025 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hsr2.70975
PMCID: PMC12239844
PMID: 40636532

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


36. Front Mol Neurosci. 2025 Jun 25;18:1623321. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2025.1623321. 
eCollection 2025.

How endothelial cell metabolism shapes blood-brain barrier integrity in 
neurodegeneration.

Wang J(1), Chen Y(2), Chen S(3), Mu Z(2), Chen J(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Jinan, China.
(2)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shandong University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Jinan, China.
(3)School of Acupuncture-Moxibustion and Tuina, Shandong University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, China.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: Endothelial cells, a monolayer of cells adjacent to blood 
vessels, play a critical role in maintaining vascular function through metabolic 
pathways such as glycolysis, fatty acid, and amino acid metabolism. Recent 
studies have revealed their significant involvement in neurodegenerative 
diseases, although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.
METHODS: By reviewing literature from the past decade, we summarized the 
metabolic alterations and functional changes of endothelial cells in 
neurological disorders.
RESULTS: In neurodegenerative diseases such as stroke, Alzheimer's disease, 
multiple sclerosis, and aging, metabolic dysregulation in cerebral vascular 
endothelial cells disrupts their normal function and is closely associated with 
blood-brain barrier impairment.
CONCLUSION: Aberrant endothelial cell metabolism compromises the integrity of 
the blood-brain barrier and exacerbates the pathological progression of 
neurodegenerative diseases. Our review further explores the therapeutic 
potential of targeting endothelial cell metabolism in various pathological 
contexts, aiming to provide novel insights for the prevention and treatment of 
related disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Chen, Chen, Mu and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fnmol.2025.1623321
PMCID: PMC12238010
PMID: 40636522

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


37. Front Mol Neurosci. 2025 Jun 25;18:1512727. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2025.1512727. 
eCollection 2025.

Whole-genome sequencing shows modulation of neurodegenerative genes by Withania 
somnifera in human SK-N-SH cells.

Sharma E(1)(2), Mehta D(1)(2), Jadhav N(3), Gujrati G(1)(2), Dhananya S(4), 
Moorthy M(4), Ramaswamy G(4), Zhou Y(5), Nair S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Phytoveda Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, India.
(2)Viridis Biopharma Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, India.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, The University of Toledo, Toledo, OH, 
United States.
(4)TheraCUES Innovations Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru, India.
(5)The Second Department of Oncology, Huizhou First Hospital, Huizhou, 
Guangdong, China.

BACKGROUND: Aging is driven by several primary and secondary hallmarks that 
manifest with age, of which neurodegenerative diseases are important 
manifestations. The ability to decelerate or reverse aging, and promote healthy 
aging, has garnered great interest in recent times. In traditional medicine, 
Withania somnifera (WS) or Ashwagandha has been recognized for its adaptogenic 
and rejuvenative effects.
METHODS: To investigate WS-modulated global gene expression profiles, we 
performed whole-genome sequencing of WS-treated human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH 
cells at different doses (50 and 100 μg/mL) and time points (3 h and 9 h) and 
validation by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and immunoblotting. Disease 
enrichment analysis for brain-related disorders was performed by DisGeNET.
RESULTS: Using differential gene expression analyses, we identified 19,945 
WS-modulated genes. Of these, 2,403 and 177 genes were significantly (p ≤ 0.05) 
upregulated and downregulated, respectively, by WS treatment. Interestingly, 
different patterns of gene expression were exhibited in dose-dependent (9 
upregulated, 1 downregulated, 100 μg/mL 3 h vs. 50 μg/mL 3 h; 21 upregulated, 86 
downregulated, 100 μg/mL 9 h vs. 50 μg/mL 9 h) and temporal kinetics (210 
upregulated, 6 downregulated, 50 μg/mL 9 h vs. 50 μg/mL 3 h; 8 upregulated, 49 
downregulated, 100 μg/mL 9 h vs. 100 μg/mL 3 h). Furthermore, qRT-PCR 
experiments validated the RNA-seq results. WS-modulated genes were implicated in 
Alzheimer's disease, migraine, Parkinson's disease, bipolar disorder, cognition, 
stress, anxiety, forgetfulness, sleep disorders, and substance abuse among 
others.
CONCLUSION: Taken together, our transcriptomic profiling study revealed for the 
first time that WS may modulate key genes in neurodegenerative disorders with 
potential beneficial implications for brain-related disorders and healthy aging.

Copyright © 2025 Sharma, Mehta, Jadhav, Gujrati, Dhananya, Moorthy, Ramaswamy, 
Zhou and Nair.

DOI: 10.3389/fnmol.2025.1512727
PMCID: PMC12238756
PMID: 40636521

Conflict of interest statement: ES, DM, GG, and SN are employees of Phytoveda 
Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, India and Viridis Biopharma Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, India. The 
remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any 
commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest.


38. Alzheimers Dement (Amst). 2025 Jul 9;17(3):e70144. doi: 10.1002/dad2.70144. 
eCollection 2025 Jul-Sep.

It is time to share Alzheimer biomarker results in dementia with Lewy bodies.

Armstrong MJ(1)(2), Grill JD(3), Tropea TF(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology University of Florida College of Medicine Gainesville 
Florida USA.
(2)Norman Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases Gainesville Florida USA.
(3)Departments of Psychiatry & Human Behavior and Neurobiology & Behavior 
Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders University of 
California Irvine Irvine California USA.
(4)Institute for Neurodegenerative Disorders New Haven Connecticut USA.
(5)Department of Neurology Perelman School of Medicine at the University of 
Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pennsylvania USA.

Comment in
    10.1002/dad2.70145.

There are increasing calls for sharing individual biomarker results with 
participants in dementia research. No studies investigate returning Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) biomarker results to individuals with syndromic dementia with Lewy 
bodies (DLB) even though most of these individuals have both pathologies. This 
perspective argues that AD biomarkers are valid, interpretable, and actionable, 
particularly relating to expected prognosis and treatment effects, in people 
with DLB. Thus, there is an ethical imperative to study AD biomarker result 
sharing in these patients. This will require revising current disclosure 
practices. Areas of need include unique pre- and post-test education and careful 
assessment of the readiness to receive results and post-result responses in 
people with DLB given the frequency of neuropsychiatric symptoms in this group. 
Studying responses to sharing AD biomarkers in people with DLB will also inform 
other dementia settings (e.g., returning synuclein results to individuals with 
syndromic AD) and neurodegenerative diseases more broadly.
HIGHLIGHTS: There are increasing calls for biomarker result sharing in dementia 
research.No processes exist to guide result sharing in dementia with Lewy bodies 
(DLB).Alzheimer biomarker results in DLB are valid, interpretable, and 
actionable.Research is needed on the methods and effects of sharing with people 
with DLB.Research is needed for sharing evidence of co-pathology across 
neurodegenerations.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease 
Monitoring published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/dad2.70144
PMCID: PMC12238827
PMID: 40636063

Conflict of interest statement: Melissa J. Armstrong receives research support 
from the NIH (R01AG068128, P30AG066506, R01NS121099, R44AG062072), the Florida 
Department of Health (grants 24A14, 24A15), and as the local PI of a Lewy Body 
Dementia Association Research Center of Excellence. She serves on the DSMBs for 
the Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute/Alzheimer's Clinical Trial 
Consortium and the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study. Joshua D. Grill 
reports research funding from NIA, Alzheimer's Association, BrightFocus 
Foundation; Eli Lilly, Biogen, Genentech, and Eisai. He has provided 
consultation to SiteRx. He receives personal compensation for editorial service 
to Alzheimer's & Dementia. The Alzheimer's Association has previously provided 
him travel support. Thomas F. Tropea receives research support from the NIH 
(K23NS114167), The Michael J Fox Foundation, and Eli Lilly, and serves as a 
clinical trial advisory board member for Bial. He has received travel expense 
reimbursement from the Parkinson Study Group and the Parkinson Foundation, and 
speaker fees from Catalyst Medical Education. Author disclosures are available 
in the supporting information.


39. Front Neurol. 2025 Jun 25;16:1594335. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1594335. 
eCollection 2025.

Serotonin 5-HT2A receptor expression is chronically decreased in the anterior 
cerebral cortex of male rats following repetitive low-level blast exposure.

De Gasperi R(1)(2), Perez Garcia G(1)(3), Gama Sosa MA(2)(4), Perez GM(1), 
Abutarboush R(5)(6), Kawoos U(5)(6), Hof PR(7)(8)(9), Zhu CW(1)(2)(9), Ahlers 
ST(5), Elder GA(2)(3)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Research and Development Service, James J. Peters Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Bronx, NY, United States.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, United States.
(4)General Medical Research Service, James J. Peters Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Bronx, NY, United States.
(5)Department of Neurotrauma, Naval Medical Research Command, Silver Spring, MD, 
United States.
(6)The Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine 
Inc., Bethesda, MD, United States.
(7)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience and Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United States.
(8)Department of Geriatrics and Palliative Care, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United States.
(9)Mount Sinai Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and Ronald M. Loeb Center for 
Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, 
United States.
(10)Neurology Service, James J. Peters Department of Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, Bronx, NY, United States.

INTRODUCTION: Many Veterans who experienced blast-related traumatic brain 
injuries (TBIs) in Iraq and Afghanistan currently suffer from chronic cognitive 
and mental health problems that include depression and post-traumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD). Male rats exposed to repetitive low-level blast develop chronic 
cognitive and PTSD-related behavioral traits that are present for more than 
1 year after exposure. Psychedelic agents alter cognition as well as mood and 
agents such as psilocybin have gained attention as possible treatments for the 
mental health disorders that affect Veterans. The best-known action of 
psilocybin's metabolite psilocin is to stimulate the serotonin 2A receptor 
(5-HT2AR). The aim of this study was to determine whether 5-HT2AR levels are 
altered by blast exposure.
METHODS: 5-HT2AR expression was examined by Western blot in 7 cohorts of rats 
exposed to low level repetitive blast collected from 2 weeks to 12 months after 
blast exposure. The analysis included three brain regions (anterior cerebral 
cortex, hippocampus and amygdala) that were chosen based on being relevant to 
fear learning and the biological basis of PTSD. Possible correlations between 
Western blot data and behavioral outcomes were evaluated.
RESULTS: 5-HT2AR was chronically decreased in anterior cortex of blast-exposed 
rats in all cohorts except the one studied at 2 weeks after blast exposure. 
5-HT2AR levels were variably affected in the other regions. 5-HT2AR expression 
correlated differently in blast and control rats in some behavioral parameters.
CONCLUSION: These findings have implications for understanding the neurochemical 
basis of blast-induced cognitive and behavioral changes. They also suggest 
5-HT2AR as a potential therapeutic target for treatment of PTSD-related symptoms 
that follow blast injury.

Copyright © 2025 De Gasperi, Perez Garcia, Gama Sosa, Perez, Abutarboush, 
Kawoos, Hof, Zhu, Ahlers and Elder.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1594335
PMCID: PMC12237669
PMID: 40635716

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


40. J Clin Neurol. 2025 Jul;21(4):315-324. doi: 10.3988/jcn.2024.0526.

Diverse Clinical Phenotypes of Neuronal Intranuclear Inclusion Disease in South 
Korea.

Chun MY(1)(2)(3), Seo SW(1)(4)(5)(6), Jang H(1)(7), Na DL(1)(5), Kim S(1), Lee 
NK(4)(8), Lee SY(4), Lee KB(1), Youn J(1), Jang JH(9), Jung NY(10), Lee 
EH(1)(11)(12), Jeong JH(11), Yoon SJ(13), Kim HC(14), Lee J(14), Park S(14)(15), 
Park J(14), Jeong H(16), Yang TW(16), Oh E(17), Kim EJ(18), Kim J(18), Lee 
JE(2)(19), Park JY(20), Mizuguchi T(21), Kameyama S(21)(22), Matsumoto N(21), 
Suh YL(23), Kim HJ(1)(4)(5)(24).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Yongin Severance Hospital, Yonsei University Health 
System, Yongin, Korea.
(4)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Digital Health, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, Korea.
(7)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(8)Cell and Gene Therapy Institute (CGTI), Research Institute for Future 
Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(9)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Genetics, Samsung Medical Center, 
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(10)Department of Neurology, Pusan National University Yangsan Hospital, Pusan 
National University School of Medicine and Medical Research Institute, Yangsan, 
Korea.
(11)Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University Seoul Hospital, Ewha Womans 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(12)Indiana Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(13)Department of Neurology, Eulji University Hospital, Eulji University School 
of Medicine, Daejeon, Korea.
(14)Department of Neurology, Haeundae Paik Hospital, Inje University College of 
Medicine, Busan, Korea.
(15)Department of Neurology, Hanyang University Guri Hospital, College of 
Medicine, Hanyang University, Guri, Korea.
(16)Department of Neurology, Gyeongsang National University Changwon Hospital, 
Gyeongsang National University College of Medicine, Changwon, Korea.
(17)Department of Neurology, Chungnam National University Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Chungnam National University, Daejeon, Korea.
(18)Department of Neurology, Pusan National University Hospital, Pusan National 
University School of Medicine and Medical Research Institute, Busan, Korea.
(19)Department of Neurology, National Health Insurance Service Ilsan Hospital, 
Goyang, Korea.
(20)Department of Neurology, Ulsan University Hospital, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Ulsan, Korea.
(21)Department of Human Genetics, Yokohama City University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Yokohama, Japan.
(22)Department of Pathology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(23)Department of Pathology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(24)Department of Digital Health, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, Korea. 
evekhj@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease (NIID) is a 
progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by a wide range of clinical 
manifestations. GGC-repeat expansion in NOTCH2NLC was recently identified as the 
genetic cause of NIID. Here we report clinical, radiological, pathological, and 
genetic findings in NIID patients.
METHODS: Twenty-five NIID patients from 22 unrelated families of Korean ancestry 
were reviewed from 9 referral centers in South Korea. We compared clinical 
features between sporadic and familial NIID patients. We classified NIID 
patients according to their prominent symptoms. The presence of GGC repeat 
expansion was analyzed in 19 patients.
RESULTS: The 25 reviewed NIID patients comprised 12 (48.0%) sporadic and 13 
(52.0%) familial cases, with the latter showing a significantly higher 
proportion of males (p=0.027). The patients were classified into three subtypes 
based on the prominent symptoms: NIID-Episodic (44.0%), NIID-EPS (extrapyramidal 
symptoms) (36.0%), and NIID-Dementia (20.0%). Most patients (92.0%) also 
exhibited other symptoms, including peripheral neuropathy (60.0%), bladder 
dysfunction (48.0%), or ophthalmic problems (56.0%). Hyperintensities along the 
corticomedullary junctions in diffusion-weighted imaging and extensive 
white-matter hyperintensities in fluid-attenuated inversion-recovery imaging 
were observed in 96.0% and 100% of the patients, respectively. GGC repeat 
expansion in NOTCH2NLC was identified in 6 sporadic and 10 familial cases. The 
number of GGC repeats was not correlated with the onset age or clinical 
symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has highlighted the diverse phenotypes and genetic 
profiles of Korean NIID patients, and provided valuable insights into this rare 
disorder.

Copyright © 2025 Korean Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.3988/jcn.2024.0526
PMCID: PMC12303689
PMID: 40635536

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


41. J Clin Neurol. 2025 Jul;21(4):277-293. doi: 10.3988/jcn.2025.0185.

Current Clinical Applications of Structural MRI in Neurological Disorders.

Tae WS(1), Ham BJ(1)(2), Pyun SB(1)(3), Kim BJ(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Brain Convergence Research Center, Korea University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Korea University College 
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. 
nukbj@korea.ac.kr.

Structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI) plays a pivotal role in the 
evaluation of neurological disorders by providing high-resolution anatomical 
information. Recent advances in quantitative postprocessing techniques have 
expanded the utility of sMRI beyond visual assessments by enabling the detection 
of subtle morphological changes associated with various neurological and 
psychiatric conditions. This review summarizes current clinical applications of 
sMRI-based analysis, including brain volumetry, shape analysis, voxel-based 
morphometry (VBM), surface-based morphometry, source-based morphometry, and 
voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping (VLSM). Volumetric and shape-based analyses 
allow for assessments of region-specific atrophy and subregional morphological 
alterations, while VBM and surface-based morphometry provide complementary 
insights into tissue volumes and the architecture of the cortical surface. 
Source-based morphometry reveals network-level patterns of structural 
covariance, and VLSM directly correlates lesion locations with functional 
outcomes, particularly in stroke. It has been demonstrated that these 
methodologies are clinically relevant in conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, and major depressive 
disorder. By quantifying structural brain alterations that are not readily 
detectable using conventional imaging methods, these tools improve diagnostic 
accuracy, support prognostication, and facilitate monitoring of treatment 
effects. This review highlights the growing integration of sMRI postprocessing 
techniques into clinical neurology.

Copyright © 2025 Korean Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.3988/jcn.2025.0185
PMCID: PMC12303675
PMID: 40635533

Conflict of interest statement: Byung-Jo Kim, the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal 
of Clinical Neurology, was not involved in the editorial evaluation or decision 
to publish this article. All remaining authors have declared no conflicts of 
interest.


42. J Clin Neurol. 2025 Jul;21(4):265-276. doi: 10.3988/jcn.2025.0079.

Traumatic Brain Injury and Dementia: Mechanisms, Risk Stratification, and 
Clinical Management.

Al-Rubaie A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical, Health and Exercise Sciences, School of Health 
Sciences, Swinburne University of Technology, Hawthorn, Victoria, Australia. 
aalrubaie@swin.edu.au.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is one of the main mechanisms underlying health 
issues associated with functional and structural brain changes. While direct 
effects such as cognitive and physical impairments are well documented, recent 
research has linked TBI to neurodegenerative changes similar to dementia. 
TBI-related neurodegeneration includes progressive brain-tissue degeneration 
that leads to behavioral changes, cognitive decline, and dementia-like symptoms. 
The exact underlying mechanisms are complex, and include neuroinflammation, 
oxidative stress, excitotoxicity, and disruption to protein homeostasis. 
Neuroinflammation is controlled by the activation of astrocytes and microglia 
and causes neuronal damage and the prolonged release of proinflammatory 
cytokines. Oxidative stress damages cell and impairs mitochondrial function, 
while the accumulation of misfolded proteins such as tau and β-amyloid mimics 
the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. Excitotoxicity involves excessive 
neurotransmitter release that may lead to further injuries. Epidemiological 
studies show that the risk of dementia is increased after moderate-to-severe TBI 
and influenced by age and genetic factors. Current management strategies focus 
on symptom relief, and there is ongoing research aimed at improving the 
understanding of the underlying mechanisms and the development of effective 
treatments.

Copyright © 2025 Korean Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.3988/jcn.2025.0079
PMCID: PMC12303682
PMID: 40635532

Conflict of interest statement: The author has no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


43. J Clin Neurol. 2025 Jul;21(4):251-264. doi: 10.3988/jcn.2025.0037.

Use of Amyloid Positron-Emission Tomography to Diagnose Alzheimer's Disease in 
Clinical Practice in South Korea: Expert Recommendations.

Park KH(1), Choi SH(2), Shim Y(3), Youn YC(4), Yang DW(5), Kim S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, Incheon, 
Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Inha University Hospital, Incheon, Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, St. Vincent's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Chung-Ang University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul St. Mary's 
Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seoul 
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. neuroksy@snu.ac.kr.

Amyloid positron-emission tomography (PET) is the optimal method for detecting 
amyloid plaque deposition in patients experiencing cognitive decline, which is 
essential for diagnosing Alzheimer's disease. However, its clinical application 
globally has been restricted by the high cost, short radiotracer half-life, and 
significant accessibility challenges. In particular, the lack of treatment 
options following diagnosis has been considered the largest obstacle to using 
amyloid PET as a diagnostic tool. Consequently, the current appropriate-use 
recommendations for amyloid PET tend to support restricting its use. However, 
the relatively low cost and superior accessibility of amyloid PET in South Korea 
have resulted in it being used much more frequently in clinical settings than in 
other countries. The recent introduction of disease-modifying drugs has 
increased the importance and frequency of amyloid PET usage. Considering these 
circumstances, this article presents expert opinions on the appropriate use of 
amyloid PET in South Korea based on existing recommendations and survey results 
from dementia experts in South Korea.

Copyright © 2025 Korean Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.3988/jcn.2025.0037
PMCID: PMC12303679
PMID: 40635531

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


44. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2025 Jul;31(7):e70511. doi: 10.1111/cns.70511.

Oxytocin Intervention Mitigates Pathological and Behavioral Impairments in 
APP/PS1 Mice Subjected to Early Social Isolation.

Li J(1), Li Y(1), Wang Z(1), Yao Y(1), Yao D(1)(2), Chen K(1)(3), Xia Y(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, MOE Key Lab 
for Neuroinformation, School of Life Science and Technology, University of 
Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, China.
(2)School of Electrical and Information Engineering, Zhengzhou University, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(3)The Clinical Hospital of Chengdu Brain Science Institute, The Fourth People's 
Hospital of Chengdu, Chengdu, China.

BACKGROUND: Neuropsychiatric symptoms, such as anxiety and depression, are 
prevalent during the prodromal phase of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Social 
isolation (SI) has been implicated as a potential exacerbating factor for 
emotional disturbances in AD pathogenesis. Despite the well-established role of 
oxytocin (OXT) in regulating social behavior and mental health, its function and 
mechanisms in alleviating AD-related psychiatric symptoms remain poorly 
understood.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We utilized a 12-week SI model to assess its effects on 
anxiety, depression-like behaviors, and social cognition in early-stage AD mice. 
Through immunofluorescence, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and 16S rDNA 
sequencing, we examined the changes in AD pathology and gut microbiota 
composition induced by SI, as well as the effects of OXT intervention.
RESULTS: Our findings revealed that SI markedly intensified anxiety-like 
behaviors, depression-like phenotypes, and social cognitive impairments in AD 
mice. Mechanistically, SI resulted in decreased OXT levels and upregulated OXT 
receptor expression while also exacerbating AD-related pathological features, 
including increased Aβ plaque deposition, aberrant microglial proliferation, and 
reduced PSD-95 expression in the prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, SI induced 
significant changes in gut microbiota composition. OXT intervention demonstrated 
therapeutic efficacy by mitigating behavioral deficits, alleviating AD-related 
pathological damage, and restoring gut microbiota homeostasis in SI AD mice.
CONCLUSION: These results underscore OXT as a promising therapeutic avenue for 
AD, offering novel insights into treatment strategies and identifying potential 
therapeutic targets through the restoration of gut homeostasis and mitigation of 
pathological processes.

© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.70511
PMCID: PMC12241820
PMID: 40635450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


45. Curr Med Chem. 2025 Jul 8. doi: 10.2174/0109298673371011250612094752. Online 
ahead of print.

Highly Efficient and Eco-friendly Synthesis and Bio-activities of 1,3-benzazoles 
as Cu (II) Chelators in Alzheimer's Disease Therapy.

Guo L(1), Lin Y(2), Sun B(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Food Science and Engineering, Chongqing Technology and Business 
University, Chongqing, 400067, PR China.
(2)Health and Wellness School, Guangxi Vocational & Technical College, Guangxi, 
530226, PR China.

INTRODUCTION: Dyshomeostasis of Cu2+ and abnormal interactions between Cu2+ and 
β Amyloid peptide (Aβ) can promote Aβ aggregation and oxidative stress, which 
are considered to trigger Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Metal chelating therapy is a 
promising approach for the treatment of AD.
METHOD: In this study, 2-(2-hydroxyphenyl)benzazoles were synthesized via 
microwave irradiation promotion. Chelators inhibiting Cu2+-induced Aβ 
aggregation were determined through turbidity assay and BCA protein assay, while 
anti-oxidants were detected via HRP/Amplex red assay and fluorescent probe of 
DCFH-DA. Cell viability was measured by MTT assay.
RESULTS: The bio-activity for inhibiting Cu2+ induced-Aβ aggregation of 
chelators S-1, S-3, S-4, S-5, S-7, S-10, N-5, N-9, N-10 O-2, O-4, X-N-2 was 
better than that of CQ. The ability of the chelators (S-1, S-10, O-2, O-5, N-9, 
and X-N-2) to decrease the level of ROS in Aβ+Cu2+ treated SH-SY5Y cells was 
better than that of CQ. The ability to attenuate Aβ-mediated cytotoxicity in 
SH-SY5Y cells of S-10 (O-2, O-5, and N-9) was better than that of CQ.
CONCLUSION: After the evolution of the bio-activities for the treatment of AD in 
vitro, it was found that 4 chelators (S-10, O-2, O-5, and N-9) exhibited better 
bio-activities than CQ in all aspects.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0109298673371011250612094752
PMID: 40635217


46. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2025 Jul 8. doi: 10.2174/0113895575392491250630195630.
Online  ahead of print.

Potential of MAO-B Inhibitors with Multi-Target Inhibition and Antioxidant 
Properties for the Treatment of Neurodegenerative Disorders.

A Shaldam M(1)(2), Carradori S(2), Melfi F(2), Guglielmi P(3), Diomede F(4), 
Piattelli M(4), O Tawfik H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kafrelsheikh 
University, Kafrelsheikh 33516, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, "G. d'Annunzio" University of Chieti-Pescara, 66100 
Chieti, Italy.
(3)Department of Drug Chemistry and Technologies, Sapienza University, 00185 
Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Medical, Oral and Biotechnological Sciences, "G. d'Annunzio" 
University of Chieti-Pescara, 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tanta 
University, 31527 Tanta, Egypt.

Millions of people worldwide are affected by neurodegenerative disorders (NDs), 
which include a broad range of clinical ailments that affect the brain or 
peripheral nervous system, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), Huntington's disease, etc. Neuronal cell death in NDs is often 
linked to oxidative stress; thus, antioxidant treatment can combat oxidative 
cell damage, and this strategy has been studied in neurodegenerative processes. 
Over the past 10 years, we have witnessed intense research activity on the 
biological potential of human monoamine oxidase (hMAO) inhibitors that have been 
associated with the prevention of oxidative stress and inflammation. These 
inhibitors have emerged as promising therapeutic agents, especially in the 
treatment of neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), where their core activity may 
help mitigate disease progression. An overview of the current state of numerous 
scaffolds, such as chromones, coumarins, chalcones, propargylamines, 
benzothiazoles, aminoisoquinolines, and the natural compounds, including ferulic 
acid, resveratrol, and chrysin, which combine antioxidant capability and hMAO 
inhibition is given in this review, with particular attention given to each 
scaffold's mechanism of action and structure-activity relationships (SARs), 
which are thoroughly discussed. Focusing on the dual mechanism of action, 
combining inhibition and antioxidant properties, as a potential therapy for 
neurodegenerative diseases, we have reviewed the different chemical classes of 
multi-targetdirected ligand (MTDL) inhibitors developed within this framework. 
Other central nervous system (CNS)-related enzymes, such as cholinesterases, 
carbonic anhydrases, and BACE-1, have also been explored as targets in the MTDL 
strategy. By understanding their biological activity, medicinal chemists can 
better comprehend biological activity and recommend more effective and specific 
ND treatments.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113895575392491250630195630
PMID: 40635213


47. J Gen Intern Med. 2025 Jul 9. doi: 10.1007/s11606-025-09702-4. Online ahead
of  print.

Performance of Older Adults on the Digital Clock and Recall Test Compared to the 
Montreal Cognitive Assessment in Primary Care Settings.

Hammers DB(1), Schulman D(2), Fowler NR(3), Musema J(4), Brosch JR(4), Summanwar 
D(5), Swartzell K(6), Higgins C(2), Banks R(7), Selzler KJ(8), MacLeod T(8), 
Tobyne S(2), Willis DR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 355 West 16th 
Street (GH4027), Indianapolis, IN, 46202, USA. HammersD@iu.edu.
(2)Linus Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine and IU Center for Aging Research, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 355 West 16th 
Street (GH4027), Indianapolis, IN, 46202, USA.
(5)Department of Family Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(6)Purdue University School of Nursing, West Lafayette, IN, USA.
(7)Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA.
(8)Davos Alzheimer Collaborative, Wayne, PA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Digital cognitive assessment solutions can overcome some barriers to 
cognitive screening in primary care by providing rapidly obtained objective 
insights without requiring specialty trained examiners. Real-world comparison of 
digital assessments to standard screenings in primary care is limited.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to compare performance on the Linus Health Digital 
Clock and Recall (DCR™) to the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA), which is a 
traditional "gold standard" cognitive screening test in primary care.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 114 primary care patients ≥ 65 years old completed a 
DCR as part of routine primary care and scored in the "Borderline" or "Impaired" 
ranges, and subsequently completed a MOCA at a follow-up primary care visit.
DESIGN: Criterion and convergent validity analyses were conducted using 
Mann-Whitney U tests, concordance (agreement) rates, polychoric or polyserial 
correlations, and exploratory factor analysis.
MAIN MEASURES: DCR and MOCA Total Scores and subcomponent scores.
KEY RESULTS: DCR Total Score and select process scores successfully 
discriminated impairment on the MOCA using traditional cutoffs, and both 
agreement rates and correlations were strong between DCR and MOCA 
components-especially Total Scores comparisons. Exploratory factor analysis 
revealed a five-factor model whereby one factor was comprised of memory subtests 
from both the DCR and MOCA, and another was comprised of non-memory MOCA 
subtests and Information Processing/Spatial Reasoning subcomponents of the DCR.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening in primary care using the DCR is feasible, and shows 
criterion and convergent validity with a "gold standard" screening tool for 
detecting cognitive impairment-the MOCA. When paired with parallel advancements 
in detection of plasma-based biomarkers and recent FDA approvals for 
disease-modifying treatments for Alzheimer's disease, the DCR and similar 
digital cognitive assessment tools have the potential to triage patients for 
both Alzheimer's disease diagnostic workups and subsequent treatments beyond 
specialty care.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-025-09702-4
PMID: 40634647

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations:. Conflict of interest:: DBH, NRF, 
JM, JRB, DS, KS, RB, KJS, TM, and DRW have no conflicts of interest. DS, CH, and 
ST are employees of Linus Health. Human Ethics and Consent to Participate:: 
Institutional Review Board approval was provided by Indiana University, with a 
waiver of written consent obtained.


48. Nature. 2025 Aug;644(8078):1020-1027. doi: 10.1038/s41586-025-09244-z. Epub
2025  Jul 9.

How short peptides disassemble tau fibrils in Alzheimer's disease.

Hou K(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Ge P(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Sawaya MR(6)(7)(8)(9), Lutter 
L(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Dolinsky JL(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Yang Y(6), Jiang 
YX(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Boyer DR(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Cheng X(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Pi 
J(7)(9), Zhang J(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Lu J(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Abskharon 
R(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Yang S(11), Yu Z(11), Feigon J(6)(9), Eisenberg 
DS(12)(13)(14)(15)(16).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. houkhouk09@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biological Chemistry, University of California, Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA. houkhouk09@gmail.com.
(3)UCLA-DOE Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA. houkhouk09@gmail.com.
(4)Molecular Biology Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA. houkhouk09@gmail.com.
(5)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA. houkhouk09@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Biological Chemistry, University of California, Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(8)UCLA-DOE Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(9)Molecular Biology Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(10)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(11)Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn, VA, USA.
(12)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. david@mbi.ucla.edu.
(13)Department of Biological Chemistry, University of California, Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA. david@mbi.ucla.edu.
(14)UCLA-DOE Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA. david@mbi.ucla.edu.
(15)Molecular Biology Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA. david@mbi.ucla.edu.
(16)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA. david@mbi.ucla.edu.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 May 08:rs.3.rs-4152095. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-4152095/v1.

Reducing fibrous aggregates of the protein tau is a possible strategy for 
halting the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD)1. Previously, we found that 
in vitro, the D-enantiomeric peptide (D-peptide) D-TLKIVWC disassembles 
ultra-stable tau fibrils extracted from the autopsied brains of individuals with 
AD (hereafter, these tau fibrils are referred to as AD-tau) into benign 
segments, with no energy source other than ambient thermal agitation2. To 
consider D-peptide-mediated disassembly as a potential route to therapeutics for 
AD, it is essential to understand the mechanism and energy source of the 
disassembly action. Here, we show that the assembly of D-peptides into 
amyloid-like ('mock-amyloid') fibrils is essential for AD-tau disassembly. These 
mock-amyloid fibrils have a right-handed twist but are constrained to adopt a 
left-handed twist when templated in complex with AD-tau. The release of strain 
that accompanies the conversion of left-twisted to right-twisted, relaxed 
mock-amyloid produces a torque that is sufficient to break the local hydrogen 
bonding between tau molecules, and leads to the fragmentation of AD-tau. This 
strain-relief mechanism seems to operate in other examples of amyloid fibril 
disassembly, and could inform the development of first-in-class therapeutics for 
amyloid diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-025-09244-z
PMCID: PMC12369647
PMID: 40634605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: D.S.E. is chair of the 
scientific advisory board of and an equity holder in ADRx. The remaining authors 
declare no competing interests. Part of the work was disclosed in our 
provisional patent application (serial no. 63/510,194).


49. Sci Data. 2025 Jul 9;12(1):1169. doi: 10.1038/s41597-025-05406-w.

Age- and Sex-Specific Cerebral Blood Flow Atlases for Healthy Brain Across the 
Lifespan.

Meng Z(1)(2), Ma Y(1), Zhang W(1), Zhuang H(1), Xu C(1), Zhang Y(1)(2), Li 
Y(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)National Engineering Research Center of Advanced Magnetic Resonance 
Technologies for Diagnosis and Therapy (NERC-AMRT), School of Biomedical 
Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Institute of Medical Robotics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)National Engineering Research Center of Advanced Magnetic Resonance 
Technologies for Diagnosis and Therapy (NERC-AMRT), School of Biomedical 
Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China. yaoli@sjtu.edu.cn.
(4)Institute of Medical Robotics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 
China. yaoli@sjtu.edu.cn.

Cerebral blood flow (CBF) is a crucial biological marker providing valuable 
insights into the developmental and aging processes of the central nervous 
system. A comprehensive understanding of the age- and sex-specific distribution 
of CBF in healthy populations is essential for distinguishing between 
pathological changes and those associated with normal aging. This study 
introduces a collection of age- and sex-specific CBF atlases across the lifespan 
(7-93 years old), derived from a large data size (N = 1166) obtained from four 
public and one private datasets. The CBF maps were measured using 
pseudo-continuous arterial spin labelling (pCASL) MRI and registered to 
age-specific structural templates derived from corresponding T1-weighted scans. 
This approach enables a more precise characterization of CBF changes associated 
with anatomical variations across different age groups. To ensure data 
reliability, rigorous quality control procedures and extensive validation at 
both temporal and spatial scales were conducted. These openly accessible atlases 
serve as a valuable public neuroimaging resource, facilitating the 
identification of CBF patterns across various stages of development and aging. 
Additionally, they provide age- and sex-specific health priors, aiding in the 
detection of abnormal CBF associated with brain disorders throughout the 
lifespan.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41597-025-05406-w
PMCID: PMC12241557
PMID: 40634347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


50. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;12(8):100269. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100269.  Epub 2025 Jul 9.

CTAD taskforce: genetic therapies in Alzheimer's disease.

Jakabek D(1), Isaacs AM(1), De Strooper B(2), Tuszynski M(3), Lane R(4), 
Uspenskaya O(5), McDade E(6), Rafii MS(7), Mummery CJ(8).

Author information:
(1)University College London, London, UK.
(2)UKDRI@ University College London, London, UK and VIB@KULeuven, Belgium.
(3)University of California San Diego, San Diego, USA.
(4)IONIS Pharmaceuticals, Carlsbad, USA.
(5)Prevail Therapeutics, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company, 
USA.
(6)Washington University in St. Louis, Saint Louis, USA.
(7)University of Southern California, Los Angeles, USA.
(8)University College London, London, UK. Electronic address: 
cath.mummery@nhs.net.

There are an increasing number of genetic approaches to treating Alzheimer's 
disease and other dementias, with some promising results from early-phase 
trials. This prompted the convention of the first EU-US CTAD Task Force on 
genetic therapies in Alzheimer's disease in October 2024. Preclinical studies 
and clinical trials of genetic therapies in Alzheimer's disease and other 
dementias are presented here with key lessons for the field. Importantly, there 
are several challenges and opportunities unique to neurogenetic therapies which 
were reviewed and discussed, including means of genetic manipulation, adverse 
events, monitoring, timing of therapy, and the importance of patient involvement 
in trial design. Continued collaboration across disciplines will accelerate 
development of neurogenetic therapeutics.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100269
PMCID: PMC12413703
PMID: 40634156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


51. Life Sci Alliance. 2025 Jul 9;8(9):e202503323. doi: 10.26508/lsa.202503323. 
Print 2025 Sep.

Loss of PLA2G4E compromises synaptic structure and cognitive outcomes in mice.

Badesso S(1), Perez-Gonzalez M(1), Exposito S(2), Espelosin M(1), Cambria C(3), 
D'Andrea L(4), Imperato G(4), Moeini P(5), Vales A(5), Gonzalez-Aseguinolaza 
G(5), Mitro N(4)(6), Antonucci F(3), Martín ED(2), Marcello E(4), 
Cuadrado-Tejedor M(7)(8), Garcia-Osta A(9).

Author information:
(1)Gene Therapy for CNS Disorders Program, Center for Applied Medical Research 
(CIMA), Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Navarra (IdiSNA), University of 
Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(2)Instituto Cajal, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), 
Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Medical Biotechnology and Translational Medicine (BIOMETRA), 
University of Milan, Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Pharmacological and Biomolecular Sciences "Rodolfo Paoletti", 
University of Milan, Milan, Italy.
(5)DNA and RNA Medicine Division, Center for Applied Medical Research (CIMA), 
University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(6)Department of Experimental Oncology, IEO, European Institute of Oncology 
IRCCS, Milan, Italy.
(7)Gene Therapy for CNS Disorders Program, Center for Applied Medical Research 
(CIMA), Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Navarra (IdiSNA), University of 
Navarra, Pamplona, Spain mcuadrado@unav.es.
(8)Department of Pathology, Anatomy and Physiology, School of Medicine, 
University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(9)Gene Therapy for CNS Disorders Program, Center for Applied Medical Research 
(CIMA), Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Navarra (IdiSNA), University of 
Navarra, Pamplona, Spain agosta@unav.es.

Given its potential role in supporting cognitive resilience, PLA2G4E has emerged 
as a compelling therapeutic target in the context of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
However, its physiological functions in the central nervous system remain 
largely unexplored. In this study, we demonstrate that Pla2g4e expression peaks 
during early postnatal brain development, coinciding with the rapid formation of 
synapses. Loss-of-function experiments in primary neuronal cultures revealed 
that Pla2g4e expression is essential for proper dendritic development and 
neuronal maturation. In constitutive Pla2g4e knockout mice, we observed 
significant disruptions in the developmental profiles of cortical synaptic 
plasticity markers, accompanied by impairments in memory-related behaviors. 
Notably, the adeno-associated virus-mediated overexpression of PLA2G4E rescued 
memory deficits, highlighting its functional relevance in cognitive processes. 
Furthermore, selective deletion of Pla2g4e in excitatory neurons of the adult 
brain resulted in moderate memory impairments in aged animals, suggesting an 
ongoing role in synaptic maintenance. Together, these findings establish PLA2G4E 
as a key regulator of dendritic architecture, synaptic function, and cognitive 
performance, and highlight its potential as a gene therapy target for 
neurodegenerative diseases characterized by synaptic dysfunction.

© 2025 Badesso et al.

DOI: 10.26508/lsa.202503323
PMCID: PMC12241665
PMID: 40634107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


52. Neurobiol Dis. 2025 Sep;213:107024. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.107024. Epub 2025
 Jul 7.

Reduction of sphingomyelinase activity associated with progranulin deficiency 
and frontotemporal dementia.

Boyle NR(1), Fox SN(1), Tadepalli AS(1), Seyfried NT(2), Kukar T(3), Ramos 
EM(4), Nana AL(5), Spina S(5), Grinberg LT(6), Miller BL(5), Seeley WW(6), 
Arrant AE(1), Roberson ED(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Killion Center for Neurodegeneration and 
Experimental Therapeutics, Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, 
GA, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, School of Medicine, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Memory & Aging Center, UCSF Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Memory & Aging Center, UCSF Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA; Department of 
Pathology, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Killion Center for Neurodegeneration and 
Experimental Therapeutics, Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA. Electronic address: eroberson@uabmc.edu.

Loss-of-function mutations affecting the lysosomal protein progranulin are a 
leading cause of frontotemporal dementia. Progranulin mutations cause 
abnormalities in lysosomal lipid processing, particularly of sphingolipids, 
major components of neural cell membranes that play important signaling roles in 
the brain. Most work in this area has focused on two classes of sphingolipids, 
gangliosides and cerebrosides. Here, we examined enzymes involved in metabolism 
of another class of sphingolipids, the sphingomyelins, in both mouse models and 
patients with progranulin insufficiency. Acidic sphingomyelinase activity was 
decreased in progranulin knockout, but not heterozygous, mice. This resulted 
from post-transcriptional loss of acid sphingomyelinase (Smpd1) protein. 
Progranulin interacted with acid sphingomyelinase in immunoprecipitation and 
proximity ligation assays, suggesting a co-trafficking role like progranulin 
plays with other lysosomal enzymes. Consistent with that hypothesis, restoring 
progranulin in knockout mice using AAV-progranulin gene therapy corrected acid 
sphingomyelinase deficits. In post-mortem brain tissue from patients with 
frontotemporal dementia due to heterozygous progranulin mutations, neutral, but 
not acidic, sphingomyelinase activity was decreased. Neutral sphingomyelinase 2 
(SMPD3), the predominant neutral sphingomyelinase in the brain, was reduced in 
patients with progranulin mutations. A similar trend (p = 0.0586) was seen in 
patients with sporadic frontotemporal lobar degeneration with type A TDP-43 
pathology, but not in other types of frontotemporal lobar degeneration. The 
reduction of neutral sphingomyelinase 2 occurred in frontal, but not occipital 
cortex, correlating with the selective vulnerability of frontal regions seen in 
FTD. These data shed light on the role of progranulin in sphingomyelin 
metabolism and of this pathway in frontotemporal dementia.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.107024
PMCID: PMC12320091
PMID: 40633679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No authors 
declare competing interests.


53. Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Cell Res. 2025 Oct;1872(7):120019. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbamcr.2025.120019. Epub 2025 Jul 7.

Modulation of mitochondrial quality control through autophagic pathway in 
familial Alzheimer's disease.

Limone A(1), Di Napoli C(1), De Rosa G(2), Bagnoli S(3), Izzo A(1), Procaccini 
C(4), Matarese G(1), Nacmias B(5), Lavecchia A(6), Sarnataro D(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology, University of 
Naples "Federico II", 80131 Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology, University of 
Naples "Federico II", 80131 Naples, Italy; Laboratorio di Immunologia, Istituto 
degli Endotipi in Oncologia, Metabolismo e Immunologia "G. Salvatore", (IEOMI), 
Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, 80131 Naples, Italy.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Psychology, Drug Research and Child Health, 
University of Florence, 50139 Florence, Italy.
(4)Laboratorio di Immunologia, Istituto degli Endotipi in Oncologia, Metabolismo 
e Immunologia "G. Salvatore", (IEOMI), Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, 80131 
Naples, Italy; IRCCS Fondazione Santa Lucia, Unità di Neuroimmunologia, 00143 
Rome, Italy.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Psychology, Drug Research and Child Health, 
University of Florence, 50139 Florence, Italy; IRCCS Fondazione Don Carlo 
Gnocchi, Florence, Italy.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, "Drug Discovery Lab", University of Naples "Federico 
II", 80131 Naples, Italy.
(7)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology, University of 
Naples "Federico II", 80131 Naples, Italy. Electronic address: 
sarnatar@unina.it.

Autophagy is a highly conserved cellular catabolic process recognized as an 
essential pathway for the maintenance of cellular homeostasis. Growing evidence 
implicates autophagic dysfunction in the pathogenesis of several 
neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), thus its 
modulation might represent an interesting therapeutic tool. Searching for a 
compound that stimulates autophagic pathway, led us to identify the inhibitor of 
RPSA receptor, NSC47924. In this study, we show that, NSC47924 down-modulated 
Akt-mTOR-axis pathway, the master regulator of autophagy, which was abnormally 
hyperactivated in fibroblasts from genetic AD-affected patients. Consistently, 
by monitoring the conversion of LC3, we found that inhibition of RPSA enhanced 
and restored the compromised autophagic flux. Moreover, by qRT-PCR analysis we 
found that inhibitor treatment upregulated the expression of autophagy-linked 
genes. Importantly, AD-affected fibroblasts exhibited massive mitochondrial 
network fragmentation and mitophagy defects, which were restored through the 
stimulation of autophagy induced by RPSA inhibition. Consistent with an 
efficient elimination of dysfunctional mitochondria, we found that the turnover 
of both the mitophagy regulators PINK1 and Parkin and the autophagic receptors 
p62, NDP52, OPTN, was modulated, thus restoring a highly interconnected 
organelle's network. In addition, the improvement of mitochondrial morphology 
correlated with a functional recovery, as assessed by Seahorse analysis and 
mitochondrial ROS production evaluation. Collectively, our findings suggest that 
RPSA inhibition stimulates an autophagic pathway promoting the efficient removal 
of damaged mitochondria, favouring the recovery of cellular homeostasis, and 
counteracting crucial AD pathogenic mechanisms.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbamcr.2025.120019
PMID: 40633621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


54. Clin Nutr. 2025 Aug;51:278-286. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2025.06.013. Epub 2025
Jun  27.

The moderating effect of dietary patterns on the association of depression and 
anxiety with cognitive function.

Al Shamsi HSS(1), Gardener SL(2), Sohrabi HR(3), Taddei K(4), Masters CL(5), 
Rainey-Smith SR(6), Martins RN(7), Fernando WMADB(8).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Excellence for Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, School of 
Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, WA, Australia.
(2)Centre of Excellence for Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, School of 
Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, WA, Australia; 
Alzheimer's Research Australia, Ralph and Patricia Sarich Neuroscience Research 
Institute, Nedlands, WA, Australia; Lifestyle Approaches Towards Cognitive 
Health Research Group, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA, Australia.
(3)Centre of Excellence for Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, School of 
Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, WA, Australia; 
Alzheimer's Research Australia, Ralph and Patricia Sarich Neuroscience Research 
Institute, Nedlands, WA, Australia; Centre for Healthy Ageing, Health Futures 
Institute, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA, Australia; School of Psychology, 
Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA, Australia; Department of Biomedical Sciences, 
Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(4)Centre of Excellence for Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, School of 
Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, WA, Australia; 
Alzheimer's Research Australia, Ralph and Patricia Sarich Neuroscience Research 
Institute, Nedlands, WA, Australia.
(5)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(6)Centre of Excellence for Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, School of 
Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, WA, Australia; 
Alzheimer's Research Australia, Ralph and Patricia Sarich Neuroscience Research 
Institute, Nedlands, WA, Australia; Lifestyle Approaches Towards Cognitive 
Health Research Group, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA, Australia; Centre for 
Healthy Ageing, Health Futures Institute, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA, 
Australia; School of Psychological Science, University of Western Australia, 
Perth, WA, Australia.
(7)Centre of Excellence for Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, School of 
Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, WA, Australia; 
Alzheimer's Research Australia, Ralph and Patricia Sarich Neuroscience Research 
Institute, Nedlands, WA, Australia; Centre for Healthy Ageing, Health Futures 
Institute, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA, Australia; Department of Biomedical 
Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(8)Centre of Excellence for Alzheimer's Disease Research and Care, School of 
Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, WA, Australia; 
Alzheimer's Research Australia, Ralph and Patricia Sarich Neuroscience Research 
Institute, Nedlands, WA, Australia. Electronic address: w.fernando@ecu.edu.au.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Investigating modifiable risk factors, such as diet, is 
crucial in understanding their effects on the relationship between Alzheimer's 
disease (AD)-related cognitive decline and related conditions. This study 
assesses whether dietary patterns moderate the relationship between symptoms of 
depression, anxiety, and cognitive function in older adults. Given that 
biological and psychosocial differences between sexes may influence dietary 
behaviours, mental health symptoms, and cognitive outcomes, conducting 
sex-stratified analyses will allow for identification of differential 
associations.
METHOD: Cross-sectional data from cognitively unimpaired older adults (n = 1174, 
age ≥60 years) from the Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and Lifestyle (AIBL) 
study were included. Participants completed the Cancer Council of Victoria food 
frequency questionnaire, provided depression and anxiety symptom data, and 
underwent neuropsychological testing. Composite scores for six cognitive domains 
were generated from individual test scores (episodic recall, recognition, 
executive function, language, attention processing, and the AIBL Preclinical 
Alzheimer Cognitive Composite (PACC)). Dietary pattern scores were calculated 
for the Mediterranean diet (MeDi), Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension 
(DASH), and Western diet. Moderation analysis explored interactions between 
dietary patterns, depression, anxiety, and cognitive performance.
RESULTS: The MeDi was found to moderate the relationship between depressive 
symptoms and attention processing in males, where low to moderate MeDi adherence 
was linked to poorer attention with higher depressive symptoms. The Western diet 
moderated the relationship between anxiety and the AIBL PACC score in males, 
with high adherence to the Western diet associated with worse PACC performance 
in those with greater anxiety. No significant moderating effects were observed 
in females for the MeDi and Western diet, or in either sex for the DASH diet on 
the association of depression and anxiety with cognitive function.
CONCLUSION: These findings also emphasise the importance of sex-specific 
approaches in research on symptoms of depression and anxiety, cognitive health, 
and diet. Our results highlight the need for further investigation into 
sex-specific pathways using longitudinal study designs and randomised controlled 
trials to establish causal relationships.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2025.06.013
PMID: 40633469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors report there 
are no competing interests to declare.


55. Comput Biol Chem. 2025 Dec;119:108586. doi:
10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2025.108586.  Epub 2025 Jul 4.

Revolutionizing medical imaging: A cutting-edge AI framework with vision 
transformers and perceiver IO for multi-disease diagnosis.

Khaliq A(1), Ahmad F(2), Rehman HU(1), Alanazi SA(3), Haleem H(1), Junaid K(4), 
Andrikopoulou E(5).

Author information:
(1)Center of Data Science, Government College University Faisalabad, Kotwali 
Road, Faisalabad, Punjab 37300, Pakistan.
(2)School of Computing, Faculty of Technology, University of Portsmouth, Winston 
Churchill Ave, Southsea, Portsmouth PO1 3HE, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
fahad.ahmad@port.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Computer Science, College of Computer and Information Sciences, 
Jouf University, Sakaka, Aljouf 72341, Saudi Arabia.
(4)School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences, Queen Mary University of 
London, London E1 4NS, United Kingdom.
(5)School of Computing, Faculty of Technology, University of Portsmouth, Winston 
Churchill Ave, Southsea, Portsmouth PO1 3HE, United Kingdom; Portsmouth 
Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Centre (PAIDS), University of 
Portsmouth, Portsmouth PO1 3HE, United Kingdom.

The integration of artificial intelligence in medical image classification has 
significantly advanced disease detection. However, traditional deep learning 
models face persistent challenges, including poor generalizability, high 
false-positive rates, and difficulties in distinguishing overlapping anatomical 
features, limiting their clinical utility. To address these limitations, this 
study proposes a hybrid framework combining Vision Transformers (ViT) and 
Perceiver IO, designed to enhance multi-disease classification accuracy. Vision 
Transformers leverage self-attention mechanisms to capture global dependencies 
in medical images, while Perceiver IO optimizes feature extraction for 
computational efficiency and precision. The framework is evaluated across three 
critical clinical domains: neurological disorders, including Stroke (tested on 
the Brain Stroke Prediction CT Scan Image Dataset) and Alzheimer's (analyzed via 
the Best Alzheimer MRI Dataset); skin diseases, covering Tinea (trained on the 
Skin Diseases Dataset) and Melanoma (augmented with dermoscopic images from the 
HAM10000/HAM10k dataset); and lung diseases, focusing on Lung Cancer (using the 
Lung Cancer Image Dataset) and Pneumonia (evaluated with the Pneumonia Dataset 
containing bacterial, viral, and normal X-ray cases). For neurological 
disorders, the model achieved 0.99 accuracy, 0.99 precision, 1.00 recall, 0.99 
F1-score, demonstrating robust detection of structural brain abnormalities. In 
skin disease classification, it attained 0.95 accuracy, 0.93 precision, 0.97 
recall, 0.95 F1-score, highlighting its ability to differentiate fine-grained 
textural patterns in lesions. For lung diseases, the framework achieved 0.98 
accuracy, 0.97 precision, 1.00 recall, 0.98 F1-score, confirming its efficacy in 
identifying respiratory conditions. To bridge research and clinical practice, an 
AI-powered chatbot was developed for real-time analysis, enabling users to 
upload MRI, X-ray, or skin images for automated diagnosis with confidence scores 
and interpretable insights. This work represents the first application of ViT 
and Perceiver IO for these disease categories, outperforming conventional 
architectures in accuracy, computational efficiency, and clinical 
interpretability. The framework holds significant potential for early disease 
detection in healthcare settings, reducing diagnostic errors, and improving 
treatment outcomes for clinicians, radiologists, and patients. By addressing 
critical limitations of traditional models, such as overlapping feature 
confusion and false positives, this research advances the deployment of reliable 
AI tools in neurology, dermatology, and pulmonology.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2025.108586
PMID: 40633409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


56. Epilepsy Res. 2025 Jul 1;217:107621. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2025.107621. 
Online ahead of print.

Phenylbutyrate for monogenetic epilepsy: Literature review.

Stone A(1), Burré J(2), Wayland N(3), Grinspan ZM(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Neurology, Weill Cornell Medicine, 1320 York Avenue, 
New York, NY 10021, USA. Electronic address: aks4017@med.cornell.edu.
(2)Division of Pediatric Neurology, Weill Cornell Medicine, 1320 York Avenue, 
New York, NY 10021, USA; Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research Institute & Brain 
and Mind Research Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, 413 E. 69th St., New York, 
NY 10021, USA.
(3)Division of Pediatric Neurology, Weill Cornell Medicine, 1320 York Avenue, 
New York, NY 10021, USA.

Monogenetic epilepsies are seizure disorders with a single-gene etiology. More 
than 500 genes are linked to epilepsy. As many as 40 % of epilepsies are caused 
by variants in one of these genes. Single gene-linked epilepsies have a wide 
phenotypic spectrum and may be accompanied by comorbidities such as 
developmental and motor delays. Epilepsy is often pharmacoresistant and does not 
respond to existing drug therapies. Preclinical data suggests that 
4-phenylbutyrate (PBA) may produce an anti-seizure effect in individuals with 
genetic epilepsies, including STXBP1, SLC6A1, SLC6A8, GABA(A) disorders, Dravet 
Syndrome (SCN1A), and LGI1 variants. Clinical data also suggests that PBA may 
have a therapeutic effect for SYNGAP1. This literature review describes the 
clinical profiles of several monogenetic epilepsies and the pathogenesis of 
seizure activity in these disorders. We focus on gene-linked epilepsy syndromes 
that may benefit from treatment with PBA according to several proposed theories 
of the drug's mechanism and functional impact.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2025.107621
PMID: 40633241

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Z.G currently 
receives research funding from Weill Cornell Medicine, NIH/NINDS (R01NS130113), 
Amgen, Harmony Biosciences, SLC6A1 Connect, STXBP1 Foundation, the Morris and 
Alma Schapiro Fund, the Jain Foundation, and the D′Addario Foundation. Z.G has 
conducted paid consulting work for UCB, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Capsida 
Therapeutics, Mahzi Therapeutics, Encoded Therapeutics, and Neurvati 
Neurosciences. J.B receives research funding from NIH/NINDS (R01NS113960, 
R01NS121077, R01AG083949, RF1NS126342, R01NS113960). The remaining authors have 
no conflicts of interest to report.


57. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Aug;189:118325. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118325. 
Epub 2025 Jul 8.

Somatostatin therapy, neprilysin activation, and amyloid beta reduction: A novel 
approach for Alzheimer's treatment.

Metzendorf NG(1), Godec A(2), Petrovic A(2), Chourlia A(2), Napoleone A(2), 
Syvänen S(3), Rofo F(2), Hultqvist G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Uppsala University, Husargatan 3, Box 580, Uppsala 
751 23, Sweden. Electronic address: Nicole.Metzendorf@uu.se.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Uppsala University, Husargatan 3, Box 580, Uppsala 
751 23, Sweden.
(3)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Uppsala University, Husargatan 3, Box 580, Uppsala 
751 23, Sweden. Electronic address: Greta.Hultqvist@uu.se.

INTRODUCTION: Neprilysin is the primary enzyme responsible for the degradation 
of amyloid beta (Aβ), with its levels regulated by the hormone somatostatin 
(SST).
METHODS: We have developed a novel treatment mechanism for Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) by combining SST with a blood-brain barrier (BBB) transporter and a Fc 
fragment to extend its half-life. This treatment was tested in a murine AD model 
overexpressing amyloid precursor protein (APP) with the Arctic mutation in Aβ 
(APPArcSwe).
RESULTS: Our findings demonstrate a significant increase in neprilysin levels, 
which correlates with a reduction in various forms of Aβ, including 
membrane-bound and intracellular Aβ aggregates, as well as Aβ42 in insoluble 
aggregates.
DISCUSSION: These results suggest that neprilysin can effectively degrade Aβ 
with the Arctic mutation. Additionally, this treatment strategy successfully 
reduces both oligomeric and larger Aβ, aggregates, a challenge for other 
therapeutic approaches. This novel strategy holds promise as a potential 
therapeutic approach for AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118325
PMID: 40633205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


58. Sci Adv. 2025 Jul 11;11(28):eads6613. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.ads6613. Epub 2025
Jul  9.

Synthetic efferocytic receptor microglia enhances anti-inflammatory clearance of 
amyloid-β for AD treatment in mice.

Shao L(1)(2), Zhang Y(3)(4), Yang Z(1), Shi C(1), Yue X(1), Li C(1), Liu Y(1), 
Fu Z(1), Tang C(1), Zhao X(1), Han M(1), Zhang J(1), Sun W(1), Yao Z(1), Xi 
K(3)(4), Fang Z(3)(4), Wang Z(3)(4), Feng F(3)(4), Ma C(3), Zhao K(1), Zhang 
Y(1)(3)(4), Ni S(3)(4), Jiang X(1), Chen C(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Discovery and Utilization of Functional Components in 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shandong Key Laboratory of Targeted Drug Delivery 
and Advanced Pharmaceutics, NMPA Key Laboratory for Clinical Research and 
Evaluation of Innovative Drug, NMPA Key Laboratory for Technology Research and 
Evaluation of Drug Products and Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology (Ministry of 
Education), Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong University, 44 Cultural West Road, 
Shandong Province, China.
(2)The Model Animal Research Center, Shandong University, Wenhua Xi Road, Jinan, 
Shandong, China.
(3)Key Laboratory for Experimental Teratology of Ministry of Education, School 
of Basic Medical Sciences, Department of Neurosurgery, Qilu Hospital, Cheeloo 
College of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(4)Shandong Key Laboratory of Brain Health and Function Remodeling, Institute of 
Brain and Brain-Inspired Science, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong 
University, 107 Wenhua Xi Road, Jinan, Shandong, China.

Monoclonal antibody immunotherapy targeting the clearance of amyloid-β (Aβ) has 
shown promise in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, current antibody treatments 
trigger Fc receptors and induce proinflammatory responses, in turn exacerbating 
neuronal damage. Here, we report a synthetic efferocytic receptor (SER) 
integrating Aβ-targeting scFv, efferocytosis receptor backbone based on TIM4 and 
downstream signal for microglia (MG) reprogramming, which enabled selective 
elimination of Aβ without inducing an inflammatory response. Specifically, our 
in-house-customized MG-editing mRNA lipid nanoparticles (MERLINs) efficiently 
introduced SER mRNA into MG to generate Aβ-specific SER-MG in situ. SER-MG 
exhibited robust Aβ-specific phagocytosis and stimulated anti-inflammatory 
efferocytosis typical signaling in vitro. In a mouse model of AD, SER expression 
in the MG markedly increased the clearance of Aβ and dampened inflammation, 
resulting in improved behavioral outcomes along with substantially reduced 
synapse elimination. Our findings establish that AD-associated aberrant MG can 
be in situ reprogrammed with SER for Aβ clearance in an anti-inflammatory 
manner, with broad application in other inflammation-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.ads6613
PMCID: PMC12239971
PMID: 40632863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. JAMA Psychiatry. 2025 Sep 1;82(9):896-904. doi: 
10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2025.1362.

Incidence and Nature of Antidepressant Discontinuation Symptoms: A Systematic 
Review and Meta-Analysis.

Kalfas M(1), Tsapekos D(1), Butler M(2), McCutcheon RA(3)(4)(5), Pillinger 
T(5)(6), Strawbridge R(1), Bhat BB(7), Haddad PM(8), Cowen PJ(3), Howes 
OD(5)(6), Joyce DW(9), Nutt DJ(10), Baldwin DS(11), Pariante CM(1)(5), Lewis 
G(12), Young AH(1)(6)(10), Lewis G(12), Hayes JF(12), Jauhar S(1)(6)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & 
Neuroscience, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology, and Neuroscience, King's College London, 
London, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(4)Oxford Health NHS Foundation Trust, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Psychosis Studies, King's College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(6)South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom.
(7)Cambridge and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(8)Deakin University, Geelong, Victoria, Australia.
(9)Institute of Population Health, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United 
Kingdom.
(10)Division of Psychiatry, Department of Brain Sciences, Imperial College 
London, London, United Kingdom.
(11)Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, United Kingdom.
(12)Division of Psychiatry, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University College 
London, London, United Kingdom.

Erratum in
    JAMA Psychiatry. 2025 Jul 22. doi: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2025.2398.

IMPORTANCE: The incidence and nature of discontinuation symptoms following 
antidepressant cessation remain unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the presence of discontinuation symptoms using 
standardized scales (eg, Discontinuation-Emergent Signs and Symptoms [DESS]) and 
the incidence of individual discontinuation symptoms in individuals who stop 
taking antidepressants.
DATA SOURCES: The databases Embase, PsycINFO, Ovid MEDLINE, and Cochrane Library 
were systematically searched from inception until November 7, 2023.
STUDY SELECTION: Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) reporting discontinuation 
symptoms using a standardized scale or individual symptoms (eg, adverse events) 
following antidepressant cessation were included.
DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Data extracted were cross-checked by 2 reviewers. 
Additional unpublished data from 11 RCTs were included. A random-effects 
meta-analysis was conducted to calculate standardized mean difference between 
individuals who discontinued an antidepressant vs those who continued an 
antidepressant or discontinued placebo. A proportion and odds ratio (OR) 
meta-analysis was performed to assess incidence of individual discontinuation 
symptoms compared to placebo. Subgroup analyses were conducted to compare 
different antidepressants. Data analysis was conducted between September 2024 
and December 2024.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcomes were incidence and nature of 
antidepressant discontinuation symptoms measured using standardized or 
unstandardized scales.
RESULTS: A total of 50 studies were included, 49 of which were included in 
meta-analyses. The 50 studies included 17 828 participants in total, with 66.9% 
female participants and mean participant age of 44 years. Follow-up was between 
1 day and 52 weeks. The DESS meta-analysis indicated increased discontinuation 
symptoms at 1 week in participants stopping antidepressants (standardized mean 
difference, 0.31; 95% CI, 0.23-0.39; number of studies [k] = 11; n = 3915 
participants) compared to those taking placebo or continuing antidepressants. 
The effect size was equivalent to 1 more symptom on the DESS. Discontinuation of 
antidepressants was associated with increased odds of dizziness (OR, 5.52; 95% 
CI, 3.81-8.01), nausea (OR, 3.16; 95% CI, 2.01-4.96), vertigo (OR, 6.40; 95% CI, 
1.20-34.19), and nervousness (OR, 3.15; 95% CI, 1.29-7.64) compared to placebo 
discontinuation. Dizziness was the most prevalent discontinuation symptom (risk 
difference, 6.24%). Discontinuation was not associated with depression symptoms, 
despite being measured in people with major depressive disorder (k = 5).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This systematic review and meta-analysis indicated 
that the mean number of discontinuation symptoms at week 1 after stopping 
antidepressants was below the threshold for clinically significant 
discontinuation syndrome. Mood worsening was not associated with 
discontinuation; therefore, later presentation of depression after 
discontinuation is indicative of depression relapse.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2025.1362
PMCID: PMC12242823
PMID: 40632531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Mr Kalfas 
reported personal fees from Neurocentrx Pharma outside the submitted work; 
employment by King's College London; and funding by the UK National Institute 
for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre. Dr Butler reported 
serving as a Wellcome Trust Doctoral Clinical Research Fellow (227515/Z/23/Z); 
royalty fees from Taylor & Francis; teaching fees from Infomed; and work as a 
medic on clinical trials sponsored by pharmaceutical companies, including 
Janssen, outside the submitted work. Dr McCutcheon reported personal fees from 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Janssen, Lundbeck, Newron, and Viatris outside the 
submitted work and codirecting a company that designs digital resources to 
support treatment of mental ill health. Dr Strawbridge reported personal fees 
from Janssen outside the submitted work. Dr Haddad reported honoraria for 
authorship of articles on antidepressant discontinuation symptoms published in 
journal supplements sponsored by Eli Lilly in 1997, 2000, and 2006. Dr Howes 
reported research funding from and/or participation in advisory or speaker 
meetings organized by AbbVie, Alkermes, Angelini, Autifony Therapeutics, Biogen, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb (Karuna), Delix Therapeutics, Eli 
Lilly, Elysium, Global Medical Education, Invicro, Janssen, Karuna Therapeutics, 
Lundbeck, Merck, Neumora Therapeutics, Neurocrine Biosciences, Ono 
Pharmaceutical, Ontrack Therapeutics/Pangea Bio, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, 
Recordati, Roche, Rovi, Sosei Heptares (now Nxera Pharma), Sunovion 
Pharmaceuticals, Teva Pharmaceuticals, and Viatris/Mylan; previous part-time 
employment by Lundbeck; and holding a patent for the use of dopaminergic 
imaging. Dr Nutt reported lecture fees from Janssen, Lundbeck, and Takeda; 
materials for research from Compass Pathways and the Usona Institute; and 
personal fees from Awakn Life Sciences outside the submitted work. Dr Baldwin 
reported editors fees from Elsevier and Wiley; grants to his institution from 
Idorsia, the NIHR Health Technology Assessment, and the NIHR Applied Research 
Collaborations outside the submitted work; and serving as Medical Patron of 
Anxiety UK, a mutual aid organization. Dr Pariante reported grants from the NIHR 
Maudsley Biomedical Research Centre at South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation 
Trust and King’s College London during the conduct of the study; consultant or 
speaker fees from GH Research, Lundbeck, and Värde Partners; grants from Compass 
Pathways outside the submitted work; and funding by a Wellcome Trust strategy 
award to the Neuroimmunology of Mood Disorders and Alzheimer’s Disease (NIMA) 
Consortium (2015-2023; 104025/Z/14/Z), which was also funded by GlaxoSmithKline, 
Janssen, Lundbeck, and Pfizer. Dr Lewis reported grants to University College 
London (UCL) from the NIHR during the conduct of the study; grants to UCL from 
the NIHR and the Wellcome Trust; and travel fees from the European College of 
Neuropsychopharmacology (ECNP) in 2023 outside the submitted work. Dr Young 
reported personal fees from Flow Neuroscience, Novartis, Roche, Janssen, Takeda, 
Noema Pharma, Compass, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly and Co, 
LivaNova, Lundbeck, Sunovion, Servier, Allergan, Bionomics, Sumitomo Dainippon 
Pharma, Sage, Neurocentrx, and Otsuka and grants from the National Institute of 
Mental Health, Canadian Institutes of Health Research, National Alliance for 
Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Stanley Medical Research Institute, 
Medical Research Council, Wellcome Trust, Royal College of Physicians, British 
Medical Association, UBC & VGH Hospital Foundation, WEDC, Canadian Cancer 
Society Depression Research Fund, Michael Smith Health Research BC, National 
Institute for Health and Care Research, Janssen, and Horizon 2020. Dr Hayes 
reported consultancy fees from juli health, Swiss Re, and the Wellcome Trust 
outside the submitted work and a pending patent with juli health. Dr Jauhar 
reported speaker fees from Boehringer Ingelheim, the Dubai Masterclass 
conference, Janssen, Lundbeck, and Recordati; serving as a nonpaid member of the 
UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) Health Technology 
Appraisal committee; serving as a committee member and on the funding panel for 
the Wellcome Trust; and advisory board fees from Boehringer Ingelheim and LB 
Pharmaceuticals outside the submitted work. No other disclosures were reported.


60. FEMS Yeast Res. 2025 Jan 30;25:foaf034. doi: 10.1093/femsyr/foaf034.

Linking endo-lysosomal pH, sterol, and trafficking to neurodegenerative disease.

Prasad H(1), Rao R(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Brain Research, Indian Institute of Science Campus, Bengaluru, 
Karnataka 560012, India.
(2)Department of Physiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21205, United States.

Although endo-lysosomal abnormalities have been recognized as a pathognomonic 
feature of Alzheimer's disease, the lack of druggable targets has hampered the 
translation from bench to bedside. This article provides an overview of the 
insights gained from yeast research with a focus on understudied luminal 
acidification mechanisms and their major impact on disease progression. The 
yeast-to-human discovery and validation strategy identified a "druggable" triad 
featuring luminal pH, sterol content, and trafficking that (dys)regulate 
reciprocally. Endosomal Na+/H+ exchangers (eNHE), discovered in yeast and later 
described in mammals, provide independent support for this pathogenic model. The 
brain is often the most severely affected organ in patients with eNHE mutations, 
and a subset is causally linked to progressive and severe neurodegeneration, 
demonstrating that neurons heavily rely on fine-tuning of endosomal pH. We 
present recent advances on the role of eNHE in ageing related neurodegenerative 
diseases, which has implications for pathogenesis and therapy. Future studies 
should unravel the broader landscape of endo-lysosomal pH in neurodegenerative 
diseases. Given that pharmacologic correction of luminal hyperacidification 
defect completely ameliorates endo-lysosomal deficits in eNHE deletion yeast, 
there is compelling reason to believe that efforts to target endo-lysosomal 
acid-base homeostasis will eventually lead to novel therapeutic approaches for 
neurodegenerative diseases.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.

DOI: 10.1093/femsyr/foaf034
PMCID: PMC12268332
PMID: 40632500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.61. Neurochem Res. 2025 Jul 9;50(4):226. doi: 10.1007/s11064-025-04478-9.

In Vitro Assessment of Cholinesterase Inhibition and Neuroprotective Effects of 
Elaeocarpus angustifolius Blume Against Amyloid-Beta Peptide-Induced Toxicity in 
SH-SY5Y and BV-2 Cells.

Banu Z(1)(2), Das NR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, GITAM School of Pharmacy, GITAM (Deemed to be 
University), Gandhi Nagar, Rushikonda, Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, 530045, 
India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, RBVRR Women's College of Pharmacy, Barkatpura, 
Hyderabad, Telangana, 500027, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, GITAM School of Pharmacy, GITAM (Deemed to be 
University), Gandhi Nagar, Rushikonda, Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, 530045, 
India. ndas@gitam.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder primarily 
characterized by memory impairment and cognitive decline. Pathophysiological 
mechanisms contributing to AD include oxidative stress, increased 
acetylcholinesterase activity, neuroinflammation, and the accumulation of 
hyperphosphorylated tau proteins and amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques in the brain. The 
shortcomings of existing therapeutic approaches have necessitated the 
exploration of alternative treatment strategies. Elaeocarpus angustifolius 
Blume, traditionally used for neurological disorders, has been investigated for 
its neuroprotective potential through its alkaloid-rich fraction. This study 
evaluated the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) 
inhibitory activities of E. angustifolius alkaloid-rich fraction (EAF) and its 
protective effects against Aβ1-42-induced cytotoxicity in human neuron-like 
SH-SY5Y cells and murine microglial BV-2 cells using the MTT assay. The results 
demonstrated that for AChE and BuChE, EAF showed significant inhibition with 
IC50 of 145.1 ± 4.782 µg/mL and 165.8 ± 1.10 µg/mL, respectively. In the MTT 
assay, EAF effectively mitigated Aβ1-42-induced cytotoxicity in a dose-dependent 
manner, with the highest dose (100 µg/mL) restoring viability from 67.91 to 
75.31% in SH-SY5Y cells and from 60.29 to 76.01% in BV-2 cells. From these 
results, it is apparent that EAF has anticholinesterase and neuroprotective 
properties. However, further research on this may help decipher underlying 
mechanisms before establishing EAF as an effective alternative in treating AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-025-04478-9
PMID: 40632335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. 
Consent for Publication: All authors gave their full consent for publication and 
submission to this journal. Competing Interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


62. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70458. doi: 10.1002/alz.70458.

The Alzheimer's disease-associated complement receptor 1 variant confers risk by 
impacting glial phagocytosis.

Daskoulidou N(1), Shaw B(1), Zelek WM(1), Morgan BP(1).

Author information:
(1)UK Dementia Research Institute at Cardiff University, School of Medicine, 
Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Genome-wide association studies have implicated complement in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). The CR1*2 variant of complement receptor 1 (CR1; 
CD35), confers increased AD risk. We confirmed CR1 expression on glial cells; 
however, how CR1 variants influence AD risk remains unclear.
METHODS: Induced pluripotent stem cell-derived microglia and astrocytes were 
generated from donors homozygous for the common CR1 variants 
(CR1*1/CR1*1;CR1*2/CR1*2). CR1 expression was quantified and phagocytic activity 
assessed using diverse targets (Escherichia coli bioparticles, amyloid β 
aggregates, and synaptoneurosomes), with or without serum opsonization.
RESULTS: Expression of CR1*1 was significantly higher than CR1*2 on glial lines. 
Phagocytosis for all targets was markedly enhanced following serum opsonization, 
attenuated by Factor I-depletion, demonstrating CR1 requirement for C3b 
processing. CR1*2-expressing glia showed significantly enhanced phagocytosis of 
all opsonized targets compared to CR1*1-expressing cells.
DISCUSSION: CR1 is critical for glial phagocytosis of opsonized targets. CR1*2, 
despite lower expression, enhances glial phagocytosis, providing mechanistic 
explanation of increased AD risk.
HIGHLIGHTS: Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived glia from individuals 
expressing the Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk variant complement receptor (CR) 
1*2 exhibit lower CR1 expression compared to those from donors expressing the 
non-risk form CR1*1. The iPSC-derived glia from individuals expressing the AD 
risk variant CR1*2 exhibit enhanced phagocytic activity for opsonized bacterial 
particles, amyloid-β aggregates and human synaptoneurosomes compared to those 
from donors expressing the non-risk form CR1*1. We suggest that expression of 
the CR1*2 variant confers risk of AD by enhancing the phagocytic capacity of 
glia for opsonized targets.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70458
PMCID: PMC12238831
PMID: 40631443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: B.P.M. serves as a consultant for Kira 
Pharmaceuticals, an advisory board member for Complement Therapeutics and a 
Director of Acionna Therapeutics. Author disclosures are available in the 
Supporting Information.


63. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70463. doi: 10.1002/alz.70463.

Impact of racialization on neuroimaging and plasma biomarkers of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Gogola A(1), Zeng X(2), Williams LA(2), Chapple-McGruder T(3), Saeed A(4)(5), 
Lopresti BJ(1), Snitz B(6), Tudorascu D(2), Minhas D(1), Ikonomovic MD(2)(6)(7), 
Kofler J(8), Matan C(1), Pascoal TA(2), Aizenstein H(2), Zetterberg 
H(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14)(15), Blennow K(10)(11)(16), Lopez O(6), Villemagne 
VL(2), Karikari TK(2), Cohen AD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)School of Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(5)Heart and Vascular Institute, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Department Neurology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(7)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, VA Pittsburgh Healthcare 
System, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(8)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(9)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(11)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(12)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(13)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(14)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, InnoHK, Hong Kong, China.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(16)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.

INTRODUCTION: Given the predominance of imaging and plasma biomarkers in 
Alzheimer's disease observational studies and clinical trials, it is critical to 
understand the differences between these biomarkers across racialized groups.
METHODS: A total of 260 older adults without dementia racialized as Black and/or 
African American (AA) and non-Hispanic white (NHW), ranging in age from 50 to 90 
years (68.8 ± 9.1 years), were evaluated for differences in plasma amyloid-β 
(Aβ) 42/Aβ40, p-tau181, p-tau217, p-tau231, neurofilament light chain (NfL), and 
glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as well as Aβ positron emission 
tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging-derived cortical thickness 
using Mann-Whitney U tests and analysis of covariance (ANCOVA).
RESULTS: Both Mann-Whitney tests and ANCOVA found significant differences 
between groups racialized as AA or NWH with respect to global 11[C]-Pittsburgh 
Compound B (PiB) standardized uptake value ratio (SUVR), cortical thickness 
values, p-tau181, and p-tau231 values (p < 0.05).
DISCUSSION: Racialization should be given more consideration in AD clinical 
research, particularly when biomarker results are used for inclusion or 
exclusion criteria for clinical trials and qualification in clinical practice.
HIGHLIGHTS: Global 11[C]-Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) standardized uptake value 
ratio (SUVR), cortical thickness, p-tau181, and p-tau231 differed between groups 
Differences were unaffected by age, sex, apolipoprotein E *4 (APOE*4), 
education, and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score Racialization needs 
more consideration in Alzheimer's disease clinical research Additional work is 
needed to understand the sources of biomarker differences.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70463
PMCID: PMC12238830
PMID: 40631440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: National Institute on Aging grants P30 AG066468, 
P50 AG005133, RF1 AG025516, R01 AG052446, R01 AG052521, P01 AG025204, R01 
AG063752, and R01 AG083874, T.K.K. and the Karikari Laboratory were supported by 
the NIH (R01AG083874, U24AG082930, P30AG066468, RF1AG052525, R01AG053952, 
R37AG023651, RF1AG025516, R01AG073267, R01AG075336, R01AG072641, and 
P01AG025204) and a professorial endowment from the Department of Psychiatry, 
University of Pittsburgh. H.Z. is a Wallenberg Scholar and a Distinguished 
Professor at the Swedish Research Council supported by grants from the Swedish 
Research Council (#2023‐00356, #2022‐01018, and #2019‐02397), the European 
Union's Horizon Europe research and innovation programme under grant agreement 
No 101053962, and Swedish State Support for Clinical Research (#ALFGBG‐71320). 
K.B. is supported by the Swedish Research Council (#2017‐00915 and #2022‐00732), 
the Swedish Alzheimer Foundation (#AF‐930351, #AF‐939721, #AF‐968270, and 
#AF‐994551), Hjärnfonden, Sweden (#ALZ2022‐0006, #FO2024‐0048‐TK‐130, and 
FO2024‐0048‐HK‐24), the Swedish state under the agreement between the Swedish 
government and the County Councils, the ALF‐agreement (#ALFGBG‐965240 and 
#ALFGBG‐1006418), the European Union Joint Program for Neurodegenerative 
Disorders (JPND2019‐466‐236), the Alzheimer's Association 2021 Zenith Award 
(ZEN‐21‐848495), the Alzheimer's Association 2022‐2025 Grant (SG‐23‐1038904 QC), 
La Fondation Recherche Alzheimer (FRA), Paris, France, the Kirsten and Freddy 
Johansen Foundation, Copenhagen, Denmark, Familjen Rönströms Stiftelse, 
Stockholm, Sweden, and an anonymous philanthropist and donor. T.K.K. has served 
as a consultant/on advisory boards for Quanterix Corp., SpearBio Inc. and 
Neurogen Biomarking LLC., holds minority equity in Neurogen Biomarking LLC., and 
has received honoraria for grant review from the Quebec Consortium for Drug 
Discovery, Canada, all outside of the submitted work. T.K.K. has received blood 
biomarker data on defined research cohorts from Janssen and Alamar Biosciences 
for independent analysis and publication, with no financial incentive and/or 
research funding included, outside of the submitted work. T.K.K. is an inventor 
on patent #WO2020193500A1 and patent applications #2450702‐2, #63/693,956, 
#63/679,361, and 63/672,952, outside of the submitted work. H.Z. has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merry Life, 
Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, 
Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a 
cofounder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). K.B. has served 
as a consultant and at advisory boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, 
Beckman–Coulter, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Neurimmune, 
Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Quanterix, Roche Diagnostics, Sanofi and Siemens 
Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and 
Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials and participated in 
educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche 
Diagnostics; and is a cofounder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB 
(BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work 
presented in this paper. All other authors have no conflicts to disclose. Author 
disclosures are available in the supporting information.


64. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70468. doi: 10.1002/alz.70468.

Discrepancies between CSF biomarker and PET determinations of elevated brain 
amyloid and their prognostic significance.

Knopman DS(1), Weigand SD(2), Wiste HJ(2), Graff-Radford J(1), Graff-Radford 
NR(3), Petersen RC(1), Boeve BF(1), Jr CRJ(4), Lowe VJ(4), Machulda MM(5), 
Fields JA(5), Ramanan VK(1), Botha H(1), McCarter SJ(1), Jones DT(1), Neth 
BJ(1), Day GS(3), Kantarci K(4), Algeciras-Schimnich A(6), Bornhorst JA(6), 
Johnson DR(4); and the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(2)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, 
USA.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.

INTRODUCTION: When cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and positron emission tomography 
(PET) measurements for amyloid-beta-peptide (Aβ) related pathology are 
discordant, therapeutic decision-making becomes uncertain.
METHODS: Using data from patients with mild cognitive impairment (n = 541) from 
the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, we examined baseline 
characteristics and longitudinal clinical outcomes in persons grouped according 
to normal/abnormal Aβ via concurrent CSF and PET determinations using standard 
cutpoints.
RESULTS: Discordant groups for brain Aβ status (CSF+/PET- and CSF-/PET+) each 
represented about 5% of the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) population. 
Longitudinally, neither discordant group declined more than the CSF-/PET- group 
on either a memory measure or the Clinical Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes scores 
over a median 4 years of observation, while the CSF+/PET+ group exhibited 
worsening on both measures.
DISCUSSION: In contrast to the clinical decline observed in the CSF+/PET+ group, 
persons with MCI and CSF+/PET- or CSF-/PET+ brain amyloid patterns did not 
exhibit incipient decline.
HIGHLIGHTS: Discrepant abnormal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and positron emission 
tomography (PET) brain amyloid indicators are uncommon in mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI). CSF-PET discrepant persons with MCI tend to have less abnormal 
values initially. CSF-PET discrepant persons with MCI have a benign prognosis at 
4 years.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70468
PMCID: PMC12441586
PMID: 40631430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: David S. Knopman reports no competing interests 
relevant to this manuscript. He serves on a Data Safety Monitoring Board for the 
Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network Treatment Unit study. He served on a Data 
Safety Monitoring Board for a tau therapeutic for Biogen (until 2021) but 
received no personal compensation. He is a site investigator in clinical trials 
sponsored by Biogen, Lilly Pharmaceuticals, and the University of Southern 
California. He has served as a consultant for Roche, Samus Therapeutics, 
Magellan Health, Biovie, and Alzeca Biosciences, but receives no personal 
compensation. He receives funding from the NIH. Stephen Weigand–no disclosures. 
Heather Wiste–no disclosures. Jonathan Graff‐Radford receives support from the 
NIH, serves on the DSMB for StrokeNET, and is an investigator in clinical trials 
sponsored by Eisai and the Alzheimer's Treatment and Research Institute at USC. 
Neill R Graff‐Radford is a site investigator in clinical trials sponsored by 
Biogen, Eisai, Lilly and Cognition therapeutics. Ronald C. Petersen serves as a 
consultant for Roche, Inc., Eisai, Inc., Genentech, Inc. Eli Lilly, Inc., and 
Nestle, Inc., served on a DSMB for Genentech, receives royalties from Oxford 
University Press and UpToDate, and receives NIH funding. Bradley F Boeve 
received an honorarium for Safety Advisory Board activities for the Tau 
Consortium funded by the Rainwater Charitable Foundation; he receives grant 
support from the NIH, the Lewy Body Dementia Association, and American Brain 
Foundation. Clifford R. Jack Jr. has no financial conflicts to disclose; he 
receives research support from NIH and the Alexander Family Alzheimer's Disease 
Research Professorship of the Mayo Clinic. Val J. Lowe serves as a consultant 
for Bayer Schering Pharma, Piramal Life Sciences, Life Molecular Imaging, Eisai 
Inc., AVID Radiopharmaceuticals, and Merck Research, and receives research 
support from GE Healthcare, Siemens Molecular Imaging, AVID 
Radiopharmaceuticals, and the NIH (NIA, NCI). Mary M Machulda–no disclosures. 
Julie A Fields reports serving as a consultant to Medtronic. Vijay K. Ramanan 
has received research funding from the NIH and the Mangurian Foundation for Lewy 
Body Disease Research; has provided educational content for Medscape, Expert 
Perspectives in Alzheimer's Disease, and Roche/ADLM; has received speaker and 
conference session honoraria from the American Academy of Neurology Institute; 
is co‐PI for a clinical trial supported by the Alzheimer's Association; is site 
Co‐PI for the Alzheimer's Clinical Trials Consortium; and is a site clinician 
for clinical trials supported by Eisai, the Alzheimer's Treatment and Research 
Institute at USC, and Transposon Therapeutics, Inc. Hugo Botha, no disclosures. 
Stuart J McCarter, no disclosures. David T Jones, no disclosures. Bryan J Neth, 
no disclosures. Dr. Day reports no competing interests directly relevant to this 
work. His research is supported by NIH (R01AG089380, U01AG057195, U01NS120901, 
U19AG032438, P30AG062677). He serves as a consultant for Arialys Therapeutics, 
and as a Topic Editor (Dementia) for DynaMed (EBSCO). He is a co‐Project PI for 
a clinical trial in anti‐NMDAR encephalitis, which receives support from 
NIH/NINDS (U01NS120901) and Amgen Pharmaceuticals. He has developed educational 
materials for Continuing Education Inc and Ionis Pharmaceuticals. He owns stock 
in ANI Pharmaceuticals. Dr. Day's institution has received in‐kind contributions 
for radiotracer precursors for tau‐PET neuroimaging in studies of memory and 
aging (via Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, a wholly owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly). 
Kejal Kantarci, no disclosures. Alicia Algeciras‐Schimnich reports serving on 
advisory boards for Roche Diagnostics, Fujirebio Diagnostics, and received an 
honorarium from Roche Diagnostics. Joshua Bornhorst reports receiving a speaking 
honorarium from Roche Diagnostics. Derek Johnson: consultation/advisory board: 
Novartis (payment to Mayo), Telix (payment to Mayo and personal), Cellectar 
(personal payment). Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, not applicable, 
no disclosures. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


65. J Neurochem. 2025 Jul;169(7):e70151. doi: 10.1111/jnc.70151.

Self-Report Alzheimer's Disease Statuses in UK Biobank Distort Downstream 
Analyses.

Hu S(1), Zhu P(1), Gao S(1), Wu S(1), He Y(1), Liu F(1), Wang K(2), Liu 
G(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institute of Brain Disorders, Laboratory of Brain Disorders, Ministry 
of Science and Technology, Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain Disorders, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)Office of Academic Research, Taishan Vocational College of Nursing, Taian, 
Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Wannan 
Medical College, Wuhu, Anhui, China.
(4)Dongying Branch Center, Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain Disorders, 
Shengli Oilfield Central Hospital, Dongying, China.
(5)Beijing Key Laboratory of Hypoxia Translational Medicine, National 
Engineering Laboratory of Internet Medical Diagnosis and Treatment Technology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.

Genetic studies have identified Alzheimer's disease (AD)-linked variants through 
genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and proxy-based GWAS (GWAX), yet 
inconsistent causal inferences still persist. Here, we systematically evaluated 
how self-reported AD diagnoses in the UK Biobank (UKB) distort Mendelian 
randomization (MR) analyses. Using seven AD datasets (four GWAS and three GWAX, 
including IGAP, N = 63 926; FinnGen R10, N = 191 061; UKB G30, N = 420 531; 
UKB2024, N = 434 286, and GWAX2017, N = 74 366; GWAX2018, N = 548 955; GWAX2021, 
N = 408 691) and six education subtypes (including years of schooling, 
N = 1 131 881; hardest math class completed, N = 430 445; self-reported math 
ability, N = 564 698; college completion, N = 280 007; cognition test 
performance, N = 257 841; and non-cognitive skills, N = 257 841). We also 
assessed the heterogeneity and pleiotropy across these datasets. We found 
opposing causal directions between GWAS and GWAX cohorts. In GWAS datasets, 
genetic variations related to education were causally linked to a lower risk of 
AD (OR < 1, p < 0.05), with years of schooling showing the strongest protective 
effects (OR = 0.71 in IGAP, p < 0.05). Conversely, UKB-based GWAX analyses 
paradoxically linked education-related traits to increased AD risk (OR > 1, 
p < 0.05), directly conflicting with the protective associations in clinical AD 
GWAS results. Genetic heterogeneity was observed in both AD GWAS and GWAX 
datasets. Pleiotropy was noted in AD outcomes, but MR estimates remained stable 
after outlier adjustments. Our findings reveal that self-reported AD statuses in 
UKB distorted genetic effect estimates, particularly for education subtypes 
requiring validation. The research urges caution in interpreting MR results from 
GWAX studies that use self-reported endpoints and highlights the need for 
rigorous phenotyping in biobank studies.

© 2025 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.70151
PMID: 40631427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Physiol Rep. 2025 Jul;13(13):e70439. doi: 10.14814/phy2.70439.

Neurophysiological mechanisms underlying cardiovascular adaptations to exercise: 
A narrative review.

Omole JG(1), Okon IA(2), Udom GJ(3)(4), Aziakpono OM(3)(5), Agbana RD(6), 
Aturamu A(7), Niwamanya N(4), Oritsemuelebi B(8), Etukudo EM(9), Yemitan OK(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Biomedical Sciences, Kampala 
International University, Ishaka-Bushenyi, Uganda.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Federal 
University Oye-Ekiti, Ekiti, Nigeria.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Pharmacy, Kampala 
International University, Ishaka-Bushenyi, Uganda.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Medicine, 
Kampala International University, Gongolamboto-Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
(6)Department of Community Medicine, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Afe-Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, Nigeria.
(7)Department of Medical Physiology, College of Medicine, Ekiti State 
University, Ado-Ekiti, Nigeria.
(8)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Delta State University, Nigeria.
(9)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Biomedical Sciences, Kampala International 
University, Ishaka-Bushenyi, Uganda.
(10)Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Toxicology, Lagos State 
University College of Medicine, Ikeja, Nigeria.

The brain-heart connection, particularly during physical activity, plays a 
crucial role in health and disease management. This review examined the 
neurophysiological mechanisms driving cardiovascular adaptations to exercise, 
focusing on the bidirectional relationship between the brain and heart. Key 
mediators such as central autonomic networks, brain-derived neurotrophic factors 
(BDNF), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) enhance neural plasticity 
and vascular health. Regular structured exercise (e.g., high-intensity interval 
training, moderate and resistance exercise) moderates autonomic responses, 
increases BDNF, and supports neurovascular coupling, improving both cognitive 
and cardiovascular resilience through molecular pathways such as PGC-1α and TrkB 
signaling. Exercise enhances cerebral perfusion, reduces oxidative stress, and 
protects brain-heart health. It mitigates risks linked to neurodegenerative 
diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, by promoting neuroplasticity and 
vascular integrity. This review highlights the importance of incorporating 
exercise-based interventions in clinical practice and public health policies to 
optimize cognitive and cardiovascular health. Future studies should explore 
exercise-induced neurovascular coupling to further elucidate the mechanisms 
connecting brain and cardiovascular health.

© 2025 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.14814/phy2.70439
PMCID: PMC12238791
PMID: 40631359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


67. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 4:2025.07.01.662603. doi: 
10.1101/2025.07.01.662603.

Age-dependent remodeling of the sciatic proteome in 5xFAD mice can be attenuated 
by exercise or donepezil treatment to maintain neuromuscular function.

Brisendine MH, Nieves-Esparcia DQ, Willoughby OS, Brown JR, Braxton DS, Henry 
SN, McCoin C, Thyfault JP, Morris JK, Poelzing S, Grange RW, Najt CP, Drake JC.

Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) progresses along a continuum for years to 
possibly decades prior to cognitive decline and clinical diagnosis. Preclinical 
AD is associated with neuromuscular dysfunction. We previously characterized 
early neuromuscular impairment prior to cognitive decline at 4 months of age in 
the 5xFAD mouse model of AD. However, the underlying cause(s) for peripheral 
nerve dysfunction leading to impaired skeletal muscle torque production are not 
understood, therefore limiting interventional capacity. We hypothesized that 
either voluntary wheel running or donepezil treatment, begun prior to 
neuromuscular decline, would delay manifestation of neuromuscular impairment in 
5xFAD mice. Methods: Sciatic nerves from 5xFAD and wild-type (WT) mice were 
analyzed by tandem mass tag (TMT)-labeled proteomics at 3, 4, and 7 months to 
investigate proteome remodeling. Separate cohorts, using 3-month-old 5xFAD mice 
and WT littermates given voluntary wheel access for 4 weeks or treated with the 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitor donepezil to test if neuromuscular dysfunction 
could be attenuated. Afterwards, we assessed tibial nerve stimulated plantar 
flexion torque and sciatic nerve compound (motor) neuron action potential (CNAP) 
in-vivo at 4 months. Additionally, we performed TMT-labeled proteomics to 
ascertain the effect of exercise and donepezil treatments on sciatic proteome. 
Results: Sciatic nerves in 5xFAD mice exhibited proteomic remodeling from 3 to 4 
months, particularly in pathways linked to mitochondrial turnover, calcium 
handling, lipid metabolism, and inflammation, coinciding with onset of 
neuromuscular dysfunction. Both exercise and donepezil attenuated in 
nerve-stimulated muscle torque and CNAP dysfunction. Both exercise and donepezil 
attenuated proteomic remodeling of the sciatic nerve involving 
mitochondrial-centric processes through both shared and independent mechanisms. 
Conclusions: Declines in neuromuscular function may be pre-clinical identifiers 
for AD that share pathway similarities with noted central effects of the 
pathology on the brain. Our findings highlight the importance of a systemic 
approach to AD pathology and importance of disease state in interventional 
efficacy.
GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT: Created in Biorender.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.07.01.662603
PMCID: PMC12236674
PMID: 40631238


68. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 6:2025.07.05.663296. doi: 
10.1101/2025.07.05.663296.

Progressive Remodeling of Global Protein Interaction Networks in a Mouse Model 
of Tauopathy.

Lin W(1)(2), Phanse S(2), van der Spek SJF(1)(3), Lampl N(2), Stephens MC(4), 
Ortiz AR(1)(3), Taylor A(1)(3), Hekman R(2), Roberts R(1)(3), Jiang L(1), 
Havugimana P(2), Botas J(4), Emili A(2)(5)(6), Wolozin B(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology & Biophysics, Boston University 
Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 02118, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, 02118, USA.
(3)Department of Anatomy & Neurobiology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian 
School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 02118, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor University, Houston, TX, 
USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Boston University, Boston, MA, 02215, USA.
(6)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Division of Oncological Sciences, 
Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR, 
97201, USA.

Neurodegenerative disease is marked not just by loss of proteins or cells, but 
by dynamic rewiring of macromolecular interaction networks that precede and 
drive pathology. Here, we present the first temporally resolved, systems-scale 
map of multi-protein complex remodeling in a tauopathy model, integrating 
co-fractionation mass spectrometry, quantitative phosphoproteomics, and machine 
learning to decode phosphorylation-dependent shifts in protein interactomes 
across disease progression. This interactomic atlas identifies functionally 
validated assemblies-including MAPT-Dpysl2 and Cyfip1-actin complexes-that 
modulate early disease phenotypes in vivo. By revealing how phosphorylation 
tunes macromolecular complex architecture and function, this work reframes 
tauopathy as a disease of dynamic network instability, and establishes a 
generalizable framework for early detection and mechanistic dissection of 
neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.07.05.663296
PMCID: PMC12236515
PMID: 40631216

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests BW is Co-Founder and 
CSO of Aquinnah Pharmaceuticals Inc, AE is Co-Founder and a Scientific Advisor 
to Prisma Therapeutics Inc.


69. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jun 23;17:1642793. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1642793.  eCollection 2025.

Editorial: A comprehensive look at biomarkers in neurodegenerative diseases: 
from early diagnosis to treatment response assessment.

Pascuzzo R(1), Palesi F(2), Wan YM(3), Cazzaniga FA(4).

Author information:
(1)Neuroradiology Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Neurologico Carlo Besta, 
Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Brain and Behavioral Sciences, University of Pavia, Pavia, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Ng Teng Fong General Hospital, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(4)Unit of Laboratory Medicine-Laboratory of Clinical Pathology, Fondazione 
IRCCS Istituto Neurologico Carlo Besta, Milan, Italy.

Comment on
    Editorial on the Research Topic A comprehensive look at biomarkers in 
neurodegenerative diseases: from early diagnosis to treatment response 
assessment.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1642793
PMCID: PMC12235312
PMID: 40630923

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


70. Front Neurol. 2025 Jun 24;16:1592829. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1592829. 
eCollection 2025.

Evaluating the safety and feasibility of remote ischemic conditioning for 
slowing cognitive decline in mild Alzheimer's dementia.

Huang X(1), Ji Q(1), Tong T(1)(2), Cai L(1)(2), Elmadhoun O(3), Zeng Y(1), Geng 
X(1)(2)(4), Ding Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Beijing Luhe Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(2)Luhe Institute of Neuroscience, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(3)Division of Critical Care Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, United 
States.
(4)Department of Neurology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, 
MI, United States.

OBJECTIVE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by complex pathological 
mechanisms involving neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and vascular 
dysfunction. Remote Ischemic Conditioning (RIC) has shown potential in 
addressing these pathways by improving cerebral blood flow, reducing oxidative 
stress, and modulating inflammatory responses. This protocol focuses on 
evaluating the safety, feasibility, and preliminary efficacy of RIC as a 
multi-target intervention for delaying cognitive decline in patients with mild 
Alzheimer's dementia, aiming to improve cognitive outcomes and overall quality 
of life.
METHODS AND EXPECTED RESULTS: This study is a randomized, controlled, 
single-center, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety, 
feasibility, and preliminary efficacy of RIC in patients with mild Alzheimer's 
dementia. Eligible participants will be recruited and randomly assigned to 
either the RIC group or a control group receiving sham RIC, with 20 patients in 
each group. Participants will receive either RIC or sham RIC once daily over a 
3-month period. Outcome measures will assess cognitive function, psychological 
well-being, and inflammatory and neurodegenerative biomarkers. Psychiatric 
adverse events will be monitored throughout the treatment using the Hamilton 
Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA) and the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-17). 
Cognitive function and daily living abilities will be evaluated at baseline, 
3 months, 6 months, and 12 months post-treatment using the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE), Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Clinical Dementia 
Rating (CDR), and the Activities of Daily Living (ADL) scales. In addition, 
blood samples will be collected at each time point to measure plasma biomarkers 
of β-amyloid species and serum inflammatory cytokines to assess potential 
changes in cognitive decline, disease progression, and inflammation. The primary 
endpoint is safety, with the expectation that RIC will not increase psychiatric 
adverse events as reflected in HAMA and HAMD-17 scores. Primary efficacy 
endpoints include improvements in MMSE, MoCA, CDR, and ADL scores, indicating 
potential cognitive benefits and enhanced daily functioning. Secondary endpoints 
will analyze biomarkers to evaluate disease progression and inflammation levels 
before and after treatment.
CONCLUSION: This trial aims to determine the safety, feasibility, and potential 
effectiveness of RIC as a multi-target intervention for mild Alzheimer's 
dementia by integrating cognitive and neuropsychological assessments with 
biological markers, providing a foundation for future studies.

Copyright © 2025 Huang, Ji, Tong, Cai, Elmadhoun, Zeng, Geng and Ding.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1592829
PMCID: PMC12234291
PMID: 40630916

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


71. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 1:2025.06.27.25330344. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.27.25330344.

Benchmarking the AI-based diagnostic potential of plasma proteomics for 
neurodegenerative disease in 17,170 people.

An L(1), Pichet-Binette A(2)(3)(4), Hristovska I(2), Vilkaite G(1), Yu X(1), 
Smets B(5), Saloner R(6), Tasaki S(7), Xu Y(8)(9), Krish V(10), Imam F(10), 
Janelidze S(2), van Westen D(11)(12); Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics 
Consortium (GNPC); Stomrud E(2)(13), Whelan CD(14), Palmqvist S(2)(13), 
Ossenkoppele R(2)(15)(16), Mattsson-Carlgren N(2)(13), Hansson O(2), Vogel 
JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, SciLifeLab, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.
(2)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Université de Montréal, Montréal, 
QC, Canada.
(4)Centre de recherche de l'institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal 
(CRIUGM), Montréal, QC, Canada.
(5)Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, a Johnson & Johnson company, Beerse, Belgium.
(6)Memory and Aging Center, Department of Neurology, Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(7)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(9)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(10)Gates Ventures, Seattle, WA, USA.
(11)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Clinical Sciences, Lund University, 
Lund, Sweden.
(12)Image and Function, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.
(13)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(14)Neuroscience Data Science, Janssen Research & Development, Cambridge, MA, 
USA.
(15)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(16)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

Co-pathology is a common feature of neurodegenerative diseases that complicates 
diagnosis, treatment and clinical management. However, sensitive, specific and 
scalable biomarkers for in vivo pathological diagnosis are not available for 
most neurodegenerative neuropathologies. Here, we present ProtAIDe-Dx, a deep 
joint-learning model trained on 17,170 patients and controls that uses plasma 
proteomics to provide simultaneous probabilistic diagnosis across six conditions 
associated with dementia in aging. ProtAIDe-Dx achieves cross-validated balanced 
classification accuracy of 69%-96% and AUCs > 79% across all conditions. The 
model's diagnostic probabilities highlighted subgroups of patients with 
co-pathologies, and were associated with pathology-specific biomarkers in an 
external sample, even among cognitively unimpaired people. Model interpretation 
revealed a suite of protein networks marking shared and specific biological 
processes across diseases, and identified novel and previously described 
proteins discriminating each diagnosis. ProtAIDe-Dx significantly improved 
biomarker-based differential diagnosis in a memory clinic sample, pinpointing 
proteins leading to diagnostic decisions at an individual level. Together, this 
work highlights the promise of plasma proteomics to improve patient-level 
diagnostic work-up with a single blood draw.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.27.25330344
PMCID: PMC12236936
PMID: 40630573


72. Stigma Health. 2025 May;10(2):199-213. doi: 10.1037/sah0000601. Epub 2025 Jan
 13.

Are Knowledge and Interpersonal Contact Cures for Alzheimer's Stigma? Data From 
Caregivers Offer Clues.

Stites SD(1), Schumann R(1), Kuz C(1), Harkins K(2), Largent E(3), Krieger A(4), 
Sankar P(3), Zuelsdorff M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania.
(2)Division of Geriatrics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania.
(3)Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania.
(4)Department of Statistics, Wharton School of Business, University of 
Pennsylvania.
(5)Department of Nursing, Wisconsin University.

Research on caregivers suggests interpersonal contact with persons with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and higher disease-oriented knowledge may heighten AD 
stigma, though these same mechanisms are often employed in anti-stigma 
campaigns. If we better understand associations among caregiver experience, 
interpersonal contact, AD knowledge and AD stigma, we can develop improved ways 
of reducing stigma and avoid unintended consequences. In a factorial design 
experiment, 2,371 participants read a vignette describing a fictional person; 
the vignette varied on clinical symptom stage, AD biomarker result, and 
treatment availability. Multivariable analyses assessed effects of caregiver 
experience, interpersonal contact, and different domains of disease-oriented 
knowledge on modified Family Stigma in Alzheimer's Disease Scale (FS-ADS) 
outcomes. Interaction analyses tested how clinical features may modify those 
associations. AD caregiver experience was associated with higher reactions on 6 
of 7 FS-ADS domains. Disease-oriented knowledge, independent of content domain, 
did not substantially affect those associations. However, knowledge of 
caregiving, treatment, and life impact associated with lower FS-ADS scores, and 
knowledge about disease course and risk factors associated with higher reactions 
on FS-ADS domains. Knowledge of treatment modified reactions to symptoms and 
treatment availability. Knowledge of disease course modified reactions to a 
biomarker result. AD caregiver experience and interpersonal contact did not 
modify associations between clinical characteristics and FS-ADS domains. 
Distinct associations among different domains of AD knowledge and stigma 
outcomes should be considered when developing anti-stigma campaigns. Failure to 
do so risks worsening rather than alleviating AD stigma.

DOI: 10.1037/sah0000601
PMCID: PMC12233215
PMID: 40630497

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts to disclose.


73. Front Public Health. 2025 Jun 24;13:1603627. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1603627.
 eCollection 2025.

The role of physical activity in preventing cognitive decline among U.S. older 
adults with diabetes and prediabetes: a cross-sectional study.

Wang Y(#)(1), Liu D(#)(2), Wang H(1), Wang M(1), Ruan W(3), Han Y(1), Han Y(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Physical Education and Health, Guangxi Normal University, Guilin, 
China.
(2)Faculty of Education and Liberal Studies, City University, Petaling Jaya, 
Malaysia.
(3)Faculty of Kinesiology, Sport, and Recreation, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Physical activity (PA) has been widely recognized as a key strategy 
to slow age-related cognitive decline. However, its specific effects on older 
adults with diabetes or prediabetes remain poorly understood. Therefore, we 
investigated the association between different levels of PA and cognitive 
function among older Americans with diabetes and prediabetes.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study used data from the 2011-2014 National Health 
and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) and included a total of 1,299 older 
adults aged ≥60 years. The PA levels were determined by calculating the weekly 
metabolic equivalent of task time (MET-min/week). The participants' cognitive 
abilities were assessed using the Consortium to Establish a Registry for 
Alzheimer's disease (CERAD) Word Learning Test, Animal Fluency Test (AFT), and 
Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST). Multivariable logistic regression models 
were used to analyze the association between different PA levels and cognitive 
function in patients with diabetes and prediabetes. The study utilized the 
restricted cubic spline (RCS) models to explore the nonlinear correlation of PA 
with cognitive function.
RESULTS: Upon controlling for confounders, DSST scores were still significantly 
associated with moderate-level PA (OR: 0.457, 95% CI: 0.244, 0.853, p = 0.020) 
and high-level PA (OR: 0.478, 95% CI: 0.240, 0.955, p = 0.039). According to the 
RCS models, PA showed a significant nonlinear correlation with cognitive 
function, and the risk of cognitive decline decreased with the increase of PA 
levels.
CONCLUSION: In older adults with diabetes and prediabetes, moderate and high 
levels of physical activity are associated with a lower risk of cognitive 
decline. Clinicians should encourage patients to participate actively in 
exercise to maximize the benefits of PA.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Liu, Wang, Wang, Ruan, Han and Han.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1603627
PMCID: PMC12234310
PMID: 40630407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


74. Arch Pharm (Weinheim). 2025 Jul;358(7):e70035. doi: 10.1002/ardp.70035.

Novel Purine-Based Natural Products as Inhibitors of Cholinesterases and 
Monoamine Oxidases Presenting Potential Multitarget Therapeutics Tackling 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Shaaban AE(1)(2), Ali AR(3), Ayyad SN(4), Badria FA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Horus University, New 
Damietta, Egypt.
(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura, Egypt.
(4)Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Damietta University, New 
Damietta, Egypt.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurological disorder that arises from 
multiple factors. The innovative multitarget-directed ligand (MTDL) approach, 
which incorporates multiple pharmacophores into one molecule, enhances the 
development of effective therapeutics for AD. Eighteen novel natural 
product-based purine MTDLs were synthesized. These hybrids were evaluated In 
Vitro for their inhibitory effects on AChE, BChE, MAO-A, and MAO-B. The findings 
revealed that most hybrids effectively and selectively inhibited AChE. Hybrid 9b 
demonstrated the highest inhibitory potency against AChE, BChE, MAO-A, and 
MAO-B, exhibiting IC50 values of 5.52, 11.64, 25.99, and 34.78 µM, respectively. 
In addition, hybrid 9b exhibited interesting antioxidant activity, with an IC50 
of 6.69 µM. The mechanism of action and the binding modes of hybrid 9b were 
analyzed through molecular docking studies. Molecular dynamics simulation 
revealed that hybrid 9b is stable within the AChE active site. In Silico 
assessments of physicochemical properties for hybrid 9b indicate that it is well 
absorbed following oral administration and can penetrate brain tissue. Finally, 
hybrid 9b stability studies in simulated gastric and intestinal conditions 
suggested that it could be absorbed into the bloodstream without significant 
degradation. Consequently, these findings reinforce the potential therapeutic 
applications of hybrid 9b as a multifunctional therapeutic candidate for 
addressing AD.

© 2025 Deutsche Pharmazeutische Gesellschaft.

DOI: 10.1002/ardp.70035
PMID: 40629981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Clin Neuropsychol. 2025 Jul 9:1-9. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2025.2529530. Online
 ahead of print.

Would a rose by any other name smell as sweet? Complexity, context, and 
consequences of neuropsychology performance labels.

Loring DW(1)(2), Hermann BP(3), Meador KJ(4), Lah JJ(1), Goldstein FC(1), Bilder 
RM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine & Public 
Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology & Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Palo Alta, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry & Biobehavioral Sciences, UCLA David Geffen School 
of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Objective: The American Academy of Clinical Neuropsychology (AACN) has proposed 
standardized performance labels to enhance consistency in neuropsychological 
reporting. While valuable in forensic and medicolegal contexts, these guidelines 
may limit interpretive flexibility and clinical relevance in diverse practice 
settings. This manuscript examines the contextual appropriateness of AACN labels 
across diverse clinical and research settings, highlighting the need for 
diagnostic flexibility over rigid adherence to normative descriptors. Methods: 
We reviewed the historical and conceptual underpinnings of neuropsychological 
assessment, focusing on Ward Halstead's distinction between "biological" and 
"psychometric" intelligence. This framework was used to explore how interpretive 
models shape clinical reasoning and test interpretation. Special attention was 
given to the implications of score labeling in multidisciplinary team settings 
(e.g. dementia diagnosis, epilepsy surgery and within large-scale research 
initiatives, including Alzheimer's Disease Research Centers (ADRCs). 
Conclusions: Although AACN performance labels support greater transparency and 
consistency in select contexts, their universal implementation may obscure 
meaningful cognitive patterns and diminish diagnostic precision. Labels such as 
"below average" may fail to capture clinically meaningful decline in 
high-functioning individuals or obscure clinically relevant cognitive patterns 
critical for diagnosis and treatment planning. We argue for a context-sensitive 
approach to score interpretation that allows flexible, informed use of 
descriptors aligned with specific referral questions and clinical goals. 
Neuropsychological assessment is most effective when guided by integrative 
clinical reasoning rather than uncritical application of standardized labeling 
conventions.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2025.2529530
PMCID: PMC12259015
PMID: 40629890

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests or 
conflicts of interest to report.


76. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70413. doi: 10.1002/alz.70413.

Subcortical gray matter volumes and 5-year dementia risk in individuals with 
subjective cognitive decline or mild cognitive impairment: A multi-cohort 
analysis.

Rosbergen MT(1)(2), van der Veere P(3)(4)(5), Claus JJ(1)(2), Evans TE(2)(6), 
Venkatraghavan V(3)(5), Barkhof F(7)(8), van Harten AC(5), Ikram MA(1), van der 
Flier WM(3)(4)(5), Vernooij MW(1)(2), Wolters FJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC - University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Radiology & Nuclear Medicine and Alzheimer Centre, Erasmus MC - 
University Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam Zuidoost, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Data Science, Amsterdam UMC location Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(5)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus MC - University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(7)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(8)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The prognostic value of subcortical gray matter structures for 
dementia beyond the hippocampus remains unclear.
METHODS: We included participants with subjective cognitive decline or mild 
cognitive impairment from two memory clinic-based cohorts (Amsterdam Dementia 
Cohort and National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center) and one population-based 
cohort (Rotterdam Study). We assessed volumes of subcortical structures on 
magnetic resonance imaging and determined 5-year dementia risk using Cox models.
RESULTS: Of 7076 participants (mean age: 66-69 years, 58.8%-61.0% women; 
NSCC = 5425, NMCI = 1661), 622 developed dementia within 5 years. Smaller 
volumes of the hippocampus and amygdala were consistently associated with 
increased dementia risk, independent of other subcortical structures. Smaller 
hippocampal volume was predominantly associated with the clinical diagnosis of 
Alzheimer's disease, but the prognostic value did not differ by amyloid status.
DISCUSSION: Hippocampal and amygdalar volume are consistently associated with 
dementia risk in individuals with subjective cognitive decline or mild cognitive 
impairment, which may hold potential for personalized prognosis.
HIGHLIGHTS: Seven thousand seventy-six participants from three large 
longitudinal cohorts were followed for a maximum of 5 years. Hippocampal volume 
is associated with 5-year risk of dementia in subjective cognitive decline (SCD) 
or mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Amygdalar volume is associated with a 5-year 
risk of dementia in SCD or MCI. Stratifying by SCD and MCI revealed no 
consistent major differences.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70413
PMCID: PMC12238309
PMID: 40629712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Wiesje van der Flier has been an invited speaker 
at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD Neurology (Medscape), NovoNordisk, 
Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council. All funding is paid to her 
institution. Wiesje van der Flier is consultant to Oxford Health Policy Forum 
CIC, Roche, Biogen MA Inc, and Eisai. All funding is paid to her institution. 
Wiesje van der Flier participated on advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc, Roche, 
and Eli Lilly. Wiesje van der Flier is member of the steering committee of 
EVOKE/EVOKE+ (NovoNordisk). All funding is paid to her institution. Wiesje van 
der Flier is member of the steering committee of PAVE, and Think Brain Health. 
Wiesje van der Flier was associate editor of Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 
2020/2021. Wiesje van der Flier is associate editor at Brain. Author disclosures 
are available in the supporting information.


77. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70435. doi: 10.1002/alz.70435.

Longitudinal tau aggregation, atrophy, and cognitive decline in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Singleton EH(1), Mattsson-Carlgren N(1)(2)(3), Pichet Binette A(1), Stomrud 
E(1)(2), Strandberg O(1), Palmqvist S(1)(2), Ossenkoppele R(1)(4), Hansson 
O(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(2)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(3)Wallenberg Center for Molecular Medicine, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(4)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: The independent contributions of baseline and longitudinal tau 
positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to 
cognitive decline remain unclear.
METHODS: We included n = 761 amyloid-positive individuals from the Swedish 
BioFINDER-2 study with [18F]RO948-tau-PET, 3-Tesla structural-MRI, and cognition 
(n = 322 with longitudinal imaging data). Linear-mixed-models with 
random-intercepts and -slopes or linear-regressions were adjusted for age, sex, 
education, diagnosis, and other-imaging-modality.
RESULTS: Tau-PET showed stronger associations with cognitive decline than MRI, 
showing the strongest associations in a neocortical-composite-region with a 
cognitive composite (β = -0.25 ± 0.02, p < 0.001) for baseline and longitudinal 
tau-PET (β = -0.62 ± 0.05, p < 0.001). Baseline tau-PET explained the largest 
proportion of cognitive decline (54.0%-94.0%), with modest mediation effects for 
longitudinal tau-PET or MRI pathways (2.0%-15.0%). Simulated reductions of 
tau-PET-slopes (up to 100%) were associated with marginally altered cognitive 
trajectories.
DISCUSSION: The strong associations between baseline tau-PET and longitudinal 
cognition, with marginal contributions of longitudinal tau-PET and MRI, 
emphasize the importance of baseline tau aggregates for prognostics and 
treatments in Alzheimer's disease (AD).
HIGHLIGHTS: Baseline and longitudinal regional tau-PET uptake were more closely 
associated than structural MRI with longitudinal cognitive decline. Baseline 
tau-PET was a stronger determinant of longitudinal cognitive decline than 
longitudinal tau-PET. Simulated reductions of tau-PET accumulation showed 
limited alterations of cognitive trajectories, with potential implications for 
tau-targeting therapies.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70435
PMCID: PMC12238312
PMID: 40629696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: E.H.S., A.P.B., O.S., and E.S. have nothing to 
disclose. NMC has received consultancy/speaker fees from Biogen, Owkin, Merck 
and Eli Lilly. S.P. has received grant from Avid Pharmaceuticals and KI 
elements/ADDF (paid to the institution) and speaker fees from Eli Lilly, Esai, 
BioArctic, and Novo Nordisk. R.O. has received research funding from European 
Research Council, ZonMw, NWO, National Institute of Health, Alzheimer 
Association, Alzheimer Nederland, Stichting Dioraphte, Cure Alzheimer's fund, 
Health Holland, ERA PerMed, Alzheimerfonden, Hjarnfonden, Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen Research & Development, Roche, Quanterix and 
Optina Diagnostics, and lecture fees by GE Healthcare. O.H. has acquired 
research support (for the institution) from AVID Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, 
C2N Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Fujirebio, GE Healthcare, and Roche. He has 
received consultancy/speaker fees from AC Immune, Alzpath, BioArctic, Biogen, 
Bristol Meyer Squibb, Cerveau, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, 
Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi and Siemens. He is currently partially employed by 
Eli Lilly. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


78. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Jul 9;20(1):81. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00870-9.

Glial phagocytosis for synapse and toxic proteins in neurodegenerative diseases.

Choi Y(1)(2), Chung WS(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(2)Center for Vascular Research, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), Daejeon, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, Republic of Korea. wonsuk.chung@kaist.ac.kr.
(4)Center for Vascular Research, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), Daejeon, 
Republic of Korea. wonsuk.chung@kaist.ac.kr.

Glia, as resident immune and supportive cells of the central nervous system, 
play a critical role in maintaining brain homeostasis. One of their key 
homeostatic functions is phagocytic capacity in pruning synapses and removing 
cellular debris/protein aggregates, a process vital for synaptic plasticity and 
brain maintenance. However, these phagocytic functions are often dysregulated 
with aging and in neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), such as Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and 
frontotemporal dementia. This review aims to examine the phagocytic roles of 
glia under both physiological and pathological conditions, with a special focus 
on their interactions with misfolded protein aggregates, including amyloid beta, 
tau, alpha synuclein, prion, huntingtin, and TAR DNA-binding protein 43. We also 
explore the fate of ingested molecules after being phagocytosed by glia-whether 
they are degraded, accumulate intracellularly, or are transferred between 
cells-and their implications for disease progression. Finally, we review current 
therapeutic strategies and the potential approaches for modulating glial 
phagocytosis to mitigate several NDs. We believe that understanding the exact 
mechanisms of glial phagocytosis and clearance will serve as key elements in 
developing future treatments for NDs.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00870-9
PMCID: PMC12239442
PMID: 40629407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.


79. BMC Nephrol. 2025 Jul 8;26(1):365. doi: 10.1186/s12882-025-04288-9.

Prevalence and influencing factors of cognitive frailty in Chinese maintenance 
hemodialysis patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Wei X(#)(1), Peng J(#)(1), Chang R(2), Liu Q(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Yunnan University of Chinese Medicine, Kunming, 650500, 
China.
(2)Digestive Endoscopy Center, Department of Spleen and Gastroenterology, Yunnan 
Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Kunming, 650021, China.
(3)School of Nursing, Yunnan University of Chinese Medicine, Kunming, 650500, 
China. 1600474773@qq.com.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) has become a major challenge in global 
public health, and China has one of the heaviest burdens of CKD in the world, 
approximately 89.5% of patients require hemodialysis. Cognitive frailty (CF) is 
a condition characterized by physical frailty and cognitive impairment while 
excluding Alzheimer's disease and other dementias. CF is associated with adverse 
clinical outcomes, including hospitalization, disability, and increased 
mortality. The purpose of this study was to explore the prevalence and 
influencing factors of CF in Chinese maintenance hemodialysis (MHD) patients 
through systematic review and meta-analysis.
METHODS: We searched PubMed, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, EMBASE, China 
National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), Wanfang Database, Chinese Scientific 
Journal Database (VIP) and Chinese Biomedical Database (CBM) for epidemiological 
data on CF in Chinese patients undergoing MHD from inception to December 2024. A 
random-effects model was used to estimate the overall prevalence of CF in 
Chinese patients undergoing MHD. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals 
(CI) were used to estimate factors associated with CF in Chinese patients 
undergoing MHD. Stata 15.0 software was used to conduct systematic review and 
meta-analysis of the prevalence and influencing factors of CF in Chinese 
patients undergoing MHD.
RESULTS: A total of 16 studies with 5690 Chinese patients undergoing MHD were 
included. The results of this meta-analysis showed that the prevalence of CF in 
Chinese patients undergoing MHD was 25%. The results of subgroup analyses showed 
that the frailty assessment tool (TFI) and education level (≥ College) may be 
sources of heterogeneity in the prevalence of CF in Chinese patients undergoing 
MHD. The meta-analysis results indicate that age (> 60, > 75), female, 
depression (HADS scale), malnutrition, triglycerides, waist circumference, 
stroke history, fall history, complications, CCI, comorbidities and dialysis age 
were risk factors for CF. High education level, calf circumference and serum 
creatinine level were protective factors for CF.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of CF in Chinese patients undergoing MHD is high 
(25%). Therefore, this patient population necessitates early screening and 
targeted interventions with influencing factors.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER FOR THIS STUDY: CRD42023493122CRD42023475424.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12882-025-04288-9
PMCID: PMC12235981
PMID: 40629315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study is mainly to collect data from various databases for 
analysis, so this is not applicable. Consent for publication: Not required. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


80. J Neurodev Disord. 2025 Jul 8;17(1):38. doi: 10.1186/s11689-025-09630-8.

Charting the future: current and future directions in translational research for 
individuals with Down syndrome.

Waugh KA(#)(1)(2)(3), Wilkins HM(#)(4)(5)(6), Smith KP(#)(7)(8)(9)(10), Ptomey 
LT(#)(11)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Kansas Intellectual & Developmental Disabilities Research Center, University 
of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA. 
kwaugh@kumc.edu.
(2)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA. kwaugh@kumc.edu.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, University of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow 
Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA. kwaugh@kumc.edu.
(4)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 4350 Shawnee 
Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS, 66205, USA. hwilkins@kumc.edu.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA. 
hwilkins@kumc.edu.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow 
Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA. hwilkins@kumc.edu.
(7)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 4350 Shawnee 
Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS, 66205, USA. ksmith79@kumc.edu.
(8)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA. 
ksmith79@kumc.edu.
(9)Department of Neurology, University of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow 
Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA. ksmith79@kumc.edu.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 
Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA. ksmith79@kumc.edu.
(11)Kansas Intellectual & Developmental Disabilities Research Center, University 
of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA. 
lptomey@kumc.edu.
(12)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 4350 Shawnee 
Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS, 66205, USA. lptomey@kumc.edu.
(13)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 
Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA. lptomey@kumc.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

The most common genetic cause of intellectual and developmental disability is 
trisomy of human chromosome 21 (trisomy 21) or Down syndrome. Relative to the 
general population, individuals with Down syndrome heterogeneously experience 
atypical morphogenesis, a distinct neurocognitive profile, and a unique spectrum 
of diverse medical conditions that impact every major organ system. How trisomy 
21 results in the highly variable manifestations of Down syndrome remains 
largely unknown and an active area of heavy investigation with therapeutic 
implications. For example, common inflammatory and metabolic signatures have 
begun to emerge across various co-occurring conditions in Down syndrome with 
assorted impacts on diverse yet intertwined organ systems that could directly or 
indirectly impact brain health. Here, we review current progress, resources, 
knowledge gaps, and bottlenecks for precision medicine approaches to promote 
brain health across the lifespan among individuals with Down syndrome within the 
larger context of research efforts geared towards our other distinct yet 
intertwined organ systems. Within this framework, we advocate for 
interdisciplinary pursuit of systems-level biomarkers to facilitate holistic 
intervention strategies that precisely benefit individuals with trisomy 21 each 
experiencing Down syndrome in their own unique way. To this end, we 
quantitatively assess clinical studies that are actively recruiting participants 
with Down syndrome and provide historical context through summary figures 
sourced to user-friendly tables that have been curated from federal websites to 
empower efficient exploration of research opportunities for interdisciplinary 
collaborations.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s11689-025-09630-8
PMCID: PMC12235967
PMID: 40629284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: We give consent for the 
publication of all text, figures, and tables in this review. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


81. BMC Geriatr. 2025 Jul 8;25(1):508. doi: 10.1186/s12877-025-06073-7.

Efficacy of music therapy as a non-pharmacological measure to support 
alzheimer's disease patients: a systematic review.

Wang J(#)(1), Liu C(#)(2), Dai Y(#)(2), Mei C(1), Wang G(1), Wang Y(1), Huang 
T(3), Zhan J(2), Cheng J(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Wuhan University of Science and Technology, No. 2, 
Huangjiahu West Road, Wuhan, 430065, China.
(2)Hubei Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Wuhan, Hubei, 
430079, China.
(3)Huanggang City Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Huanggang, Hubei, 
438021, China.
(4)School of Public Health, Wuhan University of Science and Technology, No. 2, 
Huangjiahu West Road, Wuhan, 430065, China. chengjing84@wust.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a degenerative disease of the central 
nervous system characterized by progressive memory degradation and language and 
behavior disorders. Apart from curative pharmacological therapies, music therapy 
(MT) has been diffusely used as an efficient and economical non-pharmacological 
treatment for AD patients in recent years.
METHODS: Three databases (PubMed, Web of Science and PsycINFO) were searched to 
analyse the efficacy of MT in patients with AD. Keywords included "Alzheimer's 
disease", "AD", "Mild Cognitive Impairment", "MCI", "music" and "music therapy".
RESULTS: Literatures between January 2013 and January 2023 were selected, with 
42 literatures included in the study, which highlights the beneficial impact of 
MT on cognition (memory, attention, language), behavioural and psychological 
symptoms (anxiety, depression and agitation), quality of life, self-esteem and 
physical pain in AD patients.
CONCLUSION: MT is a promising non-pharmacological treatment approach for 
individuals living with AD. However, further evidences from prospective, 
randomised, blinded, uniform, and rigorous method-logical investigations in this 
field are required to conclusively validate MT's impact on this disease. 
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD420251034039.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-025-06073-7
PMCID: PMC12235852
PMID: 40629265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The authors are accountable for all aspects of the work in ensuring 
that questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work are 
appropriately investigated and resolved. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


82. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 8;15(1):24352. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-10623-9.

Inhibitory mechanisms of amentoflavone on amyloid-β peptide aggregation revealed 
by replica exchange molecular dynamics.

Wu S(1), Liu C(1), Li Y(1), Zhang X(2), Han Q(1), Zhao H(1), Zhao K(1), Dang 
Y(3), Wang R(4), Song S(5).

Author information:
(1)Hebei Normal University of Science and Technology, Qinhuangdao, 066600, 
Hebei, PR China.
(2)Department of Digital Information, Hebei Institute of International Business 
and Economics, Qinhuangdao, 066311, Hebei, PR China.
(3)Hebei Normal University of Science and Technology, Qinhuangdao, 066600, 
Hebei, PR China. dangyr4058@hevttc.edu.cn.
(4)Hebei Normal University of Science and Technology, Qinhuangdao, 066600, 
Hebei, PR China. ruihwang@163.com.
(5)Hebei Normal University of Science and Technology, Qinhuangdao, 066600, 
Hebei, PR China. sst1210@163.com.

Amyloid-β (Aβ) aggregation is a central pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's 
disease, with soluble trimers recognized as particularly neurotoxic species. 
Amentoflavone (AMF), a natural biflavonoid compound, has shown strong inhibitory 
effects on Aβ aggregation. However, its underlying molecular mechanism remains 
poorly understood. In this study, we employed replica exchange molecular 
dynamics (REMD) and molecular mechanics/Poisson-Boltzmann surface area (MM/PBSA) 
method to elucidate the interaction between AMF and Aβ peptides. Our results 
reveal that AMF preferentially binds to the 16KLVFFAEDV24 segment, a hydrophobic 
core that plays a critical role in the initiation of aggregation. It disrupts 
b-sheet formation through hydrophobic interactions with Leu-17, Phe-20, and 
Val-24. This binding stabilizes disordered coil conformations and prevents the 
conformational transitions required for fibril formation. Based on these 
findings, we performed structure-based virtual screening and identified two 
natural product-derived candidates with higher predicted affinity. These 
insights provide an atomic-level understanding of AMF's inhibitory mechanism and 
support the rational design of natural product-inspired inhibitors that target 
Aβ aggregation.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-10623-9
PMCID: PMC12238462
PMID: 40628933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Conflict of interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


83. Cell Death Discov. 2025 Jul 8;11(1):312. doi: 10.1038/s41420-025-02600-y.

The multifaceted roles of apolipoprotein E4 in Alzheimer's disease pathology and 
potential therapeutic strategies.

Chen Y(#)(1), Jin H(2), Chen J(3), Li J(#)(4), Găman MA(5)(6)(7), Zou 
Z(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Taizhou University, Taizhou 318000, Zhejiang, China. 
cyfeng@tzc.edu.cn.
(2)Taizhou Hospital, Taizhou 317000, Zhejiang, China.
(3)School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310000, Zhejiang, China.
(4)Institute of Basic Medicine, North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong 637000, 
Sichuan, China.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, "Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Bucharest, 050474, Romania.
(6)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pathology, Stefan S. Nicolau Institute 
of Virology, Romanian Academy, Bucharest, 030304, Romania.
(7)Department of Hematology, Center of Hematology and Bone Marrow 
Transplantation, Fundeni Clinical Institute, Bucharest, 022328, Romania.
(8)School of Medicine, Taizhou University, Taizhou 318000, Zhejiang, China. 
sokuren@163.com.
(9)Liuzhou Key Lab of Psychosis Treatment, Brain Hospital of Guangxi Zhuang 
Autonomous Region, Liuzhou 545005, Guangxi, China. sokuren@163.com.
(10)Osaka Metropolitan University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, 545-8585, 
Japan. sokuren@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common dementia in the elderly, is marked by 
progressive cognitive decline and neurodegeneration. Core pathological hallmarks 
include amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques, hyperphosphorylated tau aggregates, 
neuroinflammation, and metabolic dysfunction (e.g., impaired glucose 
utilization, mitochondrial deficits). Apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), the strongest 
genetic risk factor for AD, interacts with these processes, yet its precise 
pathogenic mechanisms remain unclear. This review examines ApoE4's multifaceted 
contributions to AD pathogenesis, focusing on its roles in Aβ accumulation, tau 
hyperphosphorylation, neuroinflammatory activation, and metabolic dysregulation. 
We further evaluate emerging therapeutic strategies targeting these pathways, 
including ApoE4 modulation, anti-amyloid/tau interventions, and metabolic rescue 
approaches. Elucidating the molecular interplay between ApoE4 and AD pathology 
is critical for developing targeted therapies to modify disease progression and 
mitigate cognitive decline in patients.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41420-025-02600-y
PMCID: PMC12238274
PMID: 40628716

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


84. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Nov;33(11):1159-1170. doi: 
10.1016/j.jagp.2025.06.006. Epub 2025 Jun 12.

Ethnoracial Disparities in Advance Care Planning Among People With Alzheimer's 
Disease and Related Dementias.

Amano T(1), Inoue M(2), Dixit S(3), Tarafder A(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Arts and Sciences (TA), Rutgers University - Newark, Newark, NJ. 
Electronic address: ta460@newark.rutgers.edu.
(2)Department of Social Work (MI), George Mason University, Fairfax, VA.
(3)School of Public Health (SD, AT), Rutgers University - New Brunswick, New 
Brunswick, NJ.

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to investigate racial/ethnic variations in advance 
care planning (ACP) among people with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias 
(ADRD) and identify race/ethnicity-specific correlates of ACP.
METHODS: The study used data from four waves of the Health and Retirement Study 
(HRS, 2012-2018). We included 5,420 observations with dementia, which was 
estimated using the machine-learning based Gianattasio-Power algorithm. Five 
types of engagement in ACP were measured: durable power of attorney, living 
will, future treatment discussion, limiting medical treatment, and number of ACP 
engaged. Besides ethnoracial identity, potential correlates of ACP were selected 
based on the literature. Regression analyses with subgroup analyses by 
race/ethnicity were performed.
RESULTS: Ethnoracial identity was significantly associated with the likelihood 
of ACP engagement. The association between ethnoracial identity and the number 
of ACP engagement was significant after adjusting for covariates. Non-Hispanic 
Black (Risk Ratio [RR] = 0.670, 95% Confidence Interval [CI] = [0.607, 0.740]) 
and Hispanic (RR= 0.597, 95% CI = [0.518, 0.688]) individuals with ADRD engaged 
in fewer ACP than non-Hispanic White counterparts. Factors such as gender, 
marital status, household wealth and income, number of ADL difficulty, number of 
health conditions, self-rated health, and nursing home residency were 
differentially associated with the number of ACP engagement among three 
ethnoracial groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of engagement in ACP varies across ethnoracial 
groups. Non-Hispanic Black and Hispanic individuals are less likely to engage in 
various aspects of ACP than their non-Hispanic white counterparts. 
Race/ethnicity-specific correlates of ACP should be considered to develop 
equitable strategies that promote ACP among diverse populations.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2025.06.006
PMID: 40628581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES The authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


85. Folia Phoniatr Logop. 2025;77(5):506-516. doi: 10.1159/000547270. Epub 2025
Jul  8.

Comparison of Swallowing Dysfunction, Endurance, and Dysphagia Symptom Severity 
in Early-Stage Alzheimer's Disease and Age-Matched Controls.

Arslan-Sarımehmetoğlu E(1), Bazancir-Apaydin Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Speech and Language Therapy, Faculty of Health Sciences/Ankara 
Medipol University, Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Department of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation, Faculty of Health 
Sciences/Ankara Medipol University, Ankara, Turkey.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to compare swallowing dysfunction, 
swallowing endurance, and dysphagia symptom severity in early-stage Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and age-matched healthy controls (HCs).
METHODS: The case-control study included twenty-five individuals diagnosed with 
AD and fifteen age-matched elderly participants. Demographic data, including 
body mass index (BMI), disease history, comorbidities, and food habits, were 
obtained from first-degree relatives or patient records. Swallowing dysfunction 
was assessed using standardized dysphagia tests, including the 10-mL and 100-mL 
water swallowing tests. Swallowing endurance was assessed using the Repetitive 
Saliva Swallowing Test (RSST), and dysphagia symptom severity was evaluated with 
the Eating Assessment Tool-10 (EAT-10).
RESULTS: The duration of the 10-mL Water Swallow Test was significantly longer 
in individuals with AD compared to HCs (4.1 [3.1-5.5], 95% confidence interval 
[CI] of 3.2-5.5 vs. 3 [2.4-3.5], 95% CI of 2.4-3.5; effect size = 0.325, p = 
0.019). The groups were similar in terms of EAT-10 score (p = 0.400), 100-mL 
water swallowing test duration (p = 0.197), and RSST (p = 0.319) results. EAT-10 
score was correlated with disease duration (r = 0.451, p = 0.031) and total 
number of snacks (r = -0.404, p = 0.045) in AD group. Additionally, the 100-mL 
water swallowing test duration was correlated with BMI (r = -0.559, p = 0.004) 
in individuals with AD.
CONCLUSIONS: It has been determined that swallowing difficulties in individuals 
with AD are associated with disease duration, BMI, and snack consumption. 
Swallowing dysfunction is common in individuals with early-stage AD and they 
exhibit a longer duration in the 10-mL water swallowing test compared to HCs. 
This test may be an indicator of dysphagia. Early screening for dysphagia in 
these individuals is essential to prevent potential complications and enable 
timely interventions.

© 2025 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000547270
PMID: 40628253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Pathol Res Pract. 2025 Aug;272:156109. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2025.156109. Epub
2025  Jul 5.

Unravelling the Alzheimer's pathogenesis: Molecular and cellular pathways to 
neurodegeneration and therapeutic targets.

Chauhan P(1), Wadhwa K(1), Singh G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, 
Haryana 124001, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, 
Haryana 124001, India. Electronic address: drgovind.pharma@mdurohtak.ac.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is indeed a overwhelming neurodegenerative disorder 
whose intricated pathogenesis still remains exclusive and requires to be 
completely elucidated. This review undertakes a comprehensive analysis of the 
multifactorial signaling mechanism implicated in AD, such as AKT/MAPK, Wnt, 
Leptin, mTOR, ubiquitin, Sirt1, and insulin, exploring their pivotal individual 
and/or synergistic contribution in the dysregulation of diverse cellular 
processes accountable for neuronal health. Furthermore, it also delves into the 
molecular and cellular mechanism underlying oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, 
apoptosis, metal ion dyshomeostasis, and viral reactivation in the pathogenesis 
of AD, along with accentuating the interconnection between the intracellular 
signalling cascades and the alterations within the synaptic transmission, 
blood-brain barrier, and gut microbiota. Nevertheless, due to the enormous 
complexity of the brain, the application of these several signaling pathways as 
feasible targets for drug development against AD is minimal. This review also 
explores the numerous drug candidates, both synthetic and natural, currently 
being investigated for their anti-AD potential via targeting diverse 
pathological hallmark of AD and their associated signalling mechanisms. 
Ultimately, this review seeks to stimulate further research into these promising 
"anti-AD pathways" and to accelerate the expansion of disease-modifying 
therapies.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2025.156109
PMID: 40628129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper


87. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Jul;40(7):e70128. doi: 10.1002/gps.70128.

Knowledge and Beliefs About Medical and Non-Medical Interventions to Control 
Alzheimer's Disease Among Latinos in New York City.

Tran E(1), Cabán M(1), Meng A(1), Wetmore JB(2)(3), Ottman R(2)(3)(4)(5), Siegel 
K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociomedical Sciences, Columbia University Mailman School of 
Public Health, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, New 
York, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Columbia University Mailman School of Public 
Health, New York, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, 
New York, USA.
(5)Division of Translational Epidemiology and Mental Health Equity, New York 
State Psychiatric Institute, New York, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Latinos experience significant health disparities for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) with an increased likelihood in developing the disease relative to 
non-Latino Whites. Our study sought to examine Latinos' beliefs about 
controlling the symptoms and progression of AD to identify gaps in community 
knowledge and improve understanding of culturally based perceptions of health 
and illness.
METHODS: We conducted in-depth, semi-structured interviews in English or Spanish 
with 216 Latinos aged 40-60 years (average age 53 years) living in the 
neighborhoods of northern Manhattan. We asked them whether they believed there 
were interventions that could help control AD. The data was analyzed using 
content analysis.
RESULTS: Most participants viewed medications as important in the management of 
AD, though they had limited specific knowledge about existing medications for 
AD. Some participants thought herbal and nutritional supplements could have some 
benefits. Many believed activities for mental stimulation could help enhance 
cognitive functioning. A few suggested that a healthy diet and exercise could 
help slow the progression of AD. Some participants believed that emotional 
wellness and degree of support influenced AD progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Limited knowledge of available medications and evidence-based 
non-medical approaches to control AD may adversely impact help-seeking behavior 
and use of effective management strategies among those with AD. Future 
interventions should strive to expand knowledge about ways to effectively manage 
and treat AD in Latino communities.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The ClinicalTrials.gov ID is NCT04471779. The date 
registered was July 15, 2020.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.70128
PMCID: PMC12356096
PMID: 40627435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


88. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 8. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05189-6. Online ahead of 
print.

Exosome-Mediated Delivery of Amyloid Beta Modulators: A Potential Therapeutic 
Strategy for Alzheimer's Disease.

Mushtaq T(1), Hameed H(2), Cláudia Paiva-Santos A(3)(4), Tariq U(5), Hameed 
A(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Central Punjab (UCP), 
Lahore, 54000, Pakistan.
(2)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Central Punjab (UCP), 
Lahore, 54000, Pakistan. huma.hameed@ucp.edu.pk.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy of the 
University of Coimbra, University of Coimbra, 3000-548, Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)REQUIMTE/LAQV, Group of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy of the 
University of Coimbra, University of Coimbra, 3000-548, Coimbra, Portugal.
(5)Department of Human Nutrition and Dietetics, School of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences, University of Management and Technology, Lahore, 54000, Pakistan.
(6)Department of Human Nutrition and Dietetics, Faculty of Rehabilitation and 
Allied Health Sciences, Riphah International University, Gulberg III, Lahore, 
54000, Pakistan.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the 
deposition of amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and tau protein abnormalities, 
disrupting synaptic function and causing progressive cognitive decline. However, 
significant efforts in research are still hampered by current treatments, which 
are limited by poor penetration of the BBB and non-specific effects. Recent 
developments in nanotechnology and drug delivery have found exosomes as 
innovative carriers targeting Aβ. They have identified a novel approach to 
treating the underlying pathology of AD. Exosomes are naturally occurring 
extracellular vesicles with several unique advantages. They are biocompatible, 
can cross the BBB, and can be engineered to deliver therapeutic agents with 
precision. These agents range from small interfering RNA (siRNA), peptides, or 
drugs designed to either inhibit Aβ aggregation, enhance its clearance, or 
regulate the genes involved in its production. Among these agents, 
neural-derived exosomes offer great promise as they naturally attract neuronal 
tissue and, therefore, increase the specificity of the treatment. In preclinical 
studies, such therapies have proven encouraging by demonstrating reduced Aβ 
accumulation, a decrease in neuroinflammation, and cognitive improvement in 
models of AD. However, translation into clinical application faces some 
challenges, such as development of scalable methods of exosome production, drug 
loading efficiency, stability, and safety upon administration. The present 
review takes an outlook toward the growing area of targeting Aβ pathology via 
exosomes with potential benefits, recent breakthroughs, and open challenges. 
Harnessed therapy from exosomes can create groundbreaking-therapies in treating 
AD that hope for millions to come out from this devastator disease.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05189-6
PMID: 40627107

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval and Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Institutional Review Board: Not applicable. 
Informed Consent: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


89. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025 Jul 7. doi: 10.2174/0115672050401966250625171338. 
Online ahead of print.

The Interaction between Oligodendrocytes and Aβ in Alzheimer's Disease.

Wang W(1)(2), Huang X(1)(2), Xu Z(1)(2), Yu C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical University, 
Zunyi, 563000, China.
(2)Guizhou Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Function and Prevention and 
Treatment of Brain Disease, Zunyi, 563000, China.

Oligodendrocytes (OLs) are the primary myelinating cells in the central nervous 
system (CNS), responsible for maintaining the rapid conduction of nerve signals 
and ensuring neuronal stability through metabolic and nutritional support. 
Recent studies have reported that OLs are also involved in the development and 
progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), particularly in the production and 
clearance of amyloid-beta (Aβ), exhibiting complex and critical regulatory 
functions. While traditional research has predominantly focused on the roles of 
neurons and microglia in Aβ metabolism, recent evidence indicates that OLs 
engage in a complex bidirectional interaction with Aβ in AD. On the one hand, 
OLs can produce Aβ, frequently generating aggregated and highly toxic Aβ42, 
which contributes to plaque expansion and disease progression. On the other 
hand, neuronderived Aβ exerts a concentration-dependent dual effect on OLs. At 
high concentrations, it induces oxidative stress and cell apoptosis, while at 
low concentrations, it promotes their differentiation and myelin repair 
functions. Therefore, OLs serve as both a "source" and a "target" of Aβ 
production and response, making them a key factor in AD pathogenesis. This 
review discusses the interaction between OLs and Aβ in AD, aiming to provide new 
perspectives on targeting OLs for AD therapy. Given the dual role of OLs in Aβ 
metabolism, targeting OLs dysfunction and the regulatory mechanisms underlying 
Aβ production and clearance could provide novel therapeutic strategies for AD. 
Future research should investigate the roles of specific OL populations 
(including oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), pre-myelinating OLs, and 
mature OLs) in Aβ generation and metabolism, focusing on the signaling pathways 
involved. Additionally, the molecular mechanisms by which OLs regulate other 
glial cells, such as astrocytes and microglia, through intercellular signaling 
to facilitate Aβ clearance and maintain neuroglial homeostasis warrant further 
exploration.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050401966250625171338
PMID: 40626545


90. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Jun 23;16:1601712. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1601712. 
eCollection 2025.

Unveiling the therapeutic potential of natural products in Alzheimer's disease: 
insights from in vitro, in vivo, and clinical studies.

Aktary N(#)(1), Jeong Y(#)(1), Oh S(1), Shin Y(1), Sung Y(1), Rahman M(1), Ramos 
Santiago L(2), Choi J(1), Song HG(1), Nurkolis F(2), Ribeiro RIMA(3), Park 
MN(1), Kim B(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, State Islamic University of Sunan Kalijaga 
(UIN Sunan Kalijaga), Yogyakarta, Indonesia.
(3)Experimental Pathology Laboratory, Midwest Campus, Federal University of São 
João del-Rei, Divinópolis, Brazil.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder 
described as progressive cognitive decline and neuronal dysfunction, affecting 
millions globally. While current pharmacological treatments provide symptomatic 
relief and modestly slow disease progression, they fail to address the 
underlying pathophysiology and are often accompanied by severe adverse effects. 
This underscores the urgent need for innovative, multi-target therapeutic 
strategies that can effectively step in AD's complex pathogenesis. Emerging 
evidence highlights the therapeutic potential of natural products, particularly 
herbal medicines, as versatile modulators of key pathogenic processes in AD. 
These compounds exert neuroprotective effects by mitigating oxidative stress, 
suppressing neuroinflammation, inhibiting tau hyperphosphorylation, and reducing 
amyloid-beta aggregation. Additionally, they strengthen synaptic plasticity and 
stabilize mitochondrial function, offering a holistic approach to disease 
control. This comprehensive review synthesizes findings from network 
pharmacology, in vitro and in vivo studies, and clinical trials to evaluate the 
role of natural products in AD treatment. Advances in bioinformatics and systems 
biology facilitate the mapping of intricate protein-protein interactions, the 
identification of potential biomarkers, and the clarification of molecular 
mechanisms underlying AD progression. Integrating phytochemicals with 
conventional AD medications may improve therapeutic efficacy through synergistic 
mechanisms; however, pharmacokinetic interactions and safety considerations must 
be rigorously assessed. Notably, clinical trials investigating compounds such as 
curcumin, resveratrol, and ginsenosides suggest promising adjunctive benefits 
when incorporated into established treatment regimens. Furthermore, the 
convergence of herbal therapeutics with modern pharmacology presents an avenue 
for customized and integrative AD management. This review also emphasizes 
advancements in experimental models, including brain organoids and transgenic 
animals, which serve as crucial platforms for mechanistic studies and 
therapeutic validation. Ongoing trials on plant-derived compounds continue to 
pave the way for translational applications, reinforcing the viability of 
natural product-based interventions. By advocating a multidisciplinary framework 
that merges traditional medicine, modern pharmacology, and precision medicine, 
this work contributes to reshaping the AD landscape of therapy. It provides a 
roadmap for future research, fostering novel treatment paradigms that prioritize 
efficacy, safety, and sustainability in combating this disastrous disorder.

Copyright © 2025 Aktary, Jeong, Oh, Shin, Sung, Rahman, Ramos Santiago, Choi, 
Song, Nurkolis, Ribeiro, Park and Kim.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1601712
PMCID: PMC12230064
PMID: 40626308

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


91. J Alzheimers Dis Rep. 2025 Jul 1;9:25424823251356233. doi: 
10.1177/25424823251356233. eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

Healthcare related costs associated with donepezil use in patients with very 
mild dementia due to Alzheimer's disease: A retrospective observational study.

Hsieh SW(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Hsiao CY(1), Yang YH(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Hsieh 
HM(1)(8)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Kaohsiung Municipal Siaogang Hospital, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Neurology, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(5)Neuroscience Research Center, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan.
(6)Department of Neurology, Kaohsiung Medical University Gangshan Hospital, 
Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(7)Master's Program in Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(8)Department of Medical Research, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(9)Department of Community Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(10)Center for Big Data Research, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan.
(11)Research Center for Environmental Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of Donepezil in mild to severe Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) has been widely studied, but research on very mild dementia (VMD) 
remains limited.
OBJECTIVE: This retrospective observational study evaluated the efficacy of 
Donepezil in patients with VMD in two hospitals in southern Taiwan between 2011 
and 2019.
METHODS: We recruited 909 VMD patients with a Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) of 
0.5 and used propensity score matching to create two groups: 352 receiving 
Donepezil and 352 not. Demographic data, Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), 
and healthcare costs were analyzed over 1-year and 3-year periods.
RESULTS: At baseline, Donepezil treatment was associated with lower inpatient, 
outpatient, and overall healthcare costs. After 1 year, outpatient drug costs 
increased, while inpatient drug costs decreased, leading to higher overall 
healthcare drug costs. Over 3 years, outpatient drug continued to rise, while 
inpatient drug costs remained stable, leading to higher overall healthcare drug 
costs. Donepezil users had significantly more outpatient visits, but inpatient 
admissions were unaffected. Patients receiving Donepezil were older and had 
lower MMSE; male gender, Parkinsonism, chronic lung disease, and liver disease 
were less common in this group.
CONCLUSIONS: Although Donepezil users initially had lower healthcare costs, 
overall healthcare drug costs increased in the Donepezil group at both the 
1-year and 3-year follow-ups, while inpatient drug costs were only reduced in 
the short term.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/25424823251356233
PMCID: PMC12232035
PMID: 40625312

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


92. NMR Biomed. 2025 Aug;38(8):e70092. doi: 10.1002/nbm.70092.

Ultrafast Imaging of Physiological Brain Pulsations With Magnetic Resonance 
Encephalography-From Noise to Predictive Clinical Biomarker.

Kiviniemi V(1)(2)(3), Helakari H(1)(2), Raitamaa L(1)(2), Huotari N(1)(2), Rajna 
Z(1)(2), Järvelä M(1)(2), Elabasy A(1)(2)(3), Tuunanen J(1)(2), Poltojainen 
V(1)(2), Väyrynen T(1)(2), Tuovinen T(1)(2), Kananen J(1)(2), Korhonen V(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Oulu Functional NeuroImaging, HST/Oulu University, Oulu, Finland.
(2)Diagnostics/MRC, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland.
(3)Biocenter Oulu, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.

Over the past decade, novel in vivo imaging techniques have revealed that 
physiological pulsations drive the transport of brain solutes and that 
impairment of fluid flow precedes certain neuropathologies. Although the 
pioneering investigations on brain solute transport mechanisms mainly employed 
imaging of exogenous tracers, novel advanced ultrafast functional MRI sequences 
enable critical sampling of propagating physiological pulsations driving the 
brain fluids devoid of aliased mixing of signals. In this review, we summarize 
the emerging magnetic resonance encephalography (MREG) technique, beginning with 
a historical perspective and physiological background of the phenomena of brain 
pulsatility as measured in the parenchyma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). We give 
a detailed account of how functional contrast mechanisms evident in the 
T2(*)-weighted MREG signal enable the simultaneous mapping of three distinct 
physiological signals. Our narrative review continues with an account of signal 
analysis and methodological considerations arising from 12 years of experience 
in ultrafast brain scanning. Our review concludes with a presentation of how 
sleep-related physiological changes in the driving pulsations influence solute 
transport in a healthy brain and our perspective on the potential of these 
pulsations as emerging biomarkers for predictive, diagnostic, and treatment 
monitoring in the context of Alzheimer's disease and other central nervous 
system (CNS) conditions.

© 2025 The Author(s). NMR in Biomedicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.70092
PMCID: PMC12235357
PMID: 40625063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. J Nanobiotechnology. 2025 Jul 8;23(1):494. doi: 10.1186/s12951-025-03557-x.

PIEZO2 is the underlying mediator for precise magnetic stimulation of PVN to 
improve autism-like behavior in mice.

Liu S(1)(2), Liu X(3), Duan Y(1)(2), Huang L(4), Ye T(4), Gu N(5), Tan T(6), 
Zhang Z(7)(8), Sun J(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Biomaterials and Devices, School of Biological 
Science and Medical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing, 210009, P. R. 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Digital Medical Engineering, Southeast University, 
Nanjing, 210096, P. R. China.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical School of Southeast 
University, Nanjing, 210009, P. R. China.
(4)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision and Brain 
Health), Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang 
Province, Zhejiang Provincial Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders, The 
Affiliated Wenzhou Kangning Hospital, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang, 325000, China.
(5)Nanjing Key Laboratory for Cardiovascular Information and Health Engineering 
Medicine, Institute of Clinical Medicine, Medical School, Nanjing Drum Tower 
Hospital, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210093, China. guning@nju.edu.cn.
(6)Oujiang Laboratory (Zhejiang Lab for Regenerative Medicine, Vision and Brain 
Health), Institute of Aging, Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang 
Province, Zhejiang Provincial Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders, The 
Affiliated Wenzhou Kangning Hospital, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang, 325000, China. tantao@ojlab.ac.cn.
(7)Department of Neurology, Research Institution of Neuropsychiatry, School of 
Medicine, Key Laboratory of Developmental Genes and Human Disease, Affiliated 
Zhongda Hospital, Southeast University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 210009, China. 
janemengzhang@vip.163.com.
(8)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Precision Diagnosis and Treatment of Depression, 
Department of Mental Health and Public Health, Faculty of Life and Health 
Sciences, Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China. janemengzhang@vip.163.com.
(9)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Biomaterials and Devices, School of Biological 
Science and Medical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing, 210009, P. R. 
China. sunzaghi@seu.edu.cn.
(10)State Key Laboratory of Digital Medical Engineering, Southeast University, 
Nanjing, 210096, P. R. China. sunzaghi@seu.edu.cn.

The precision magnetic stimulation system (pMSS), mediated by superparamagnetic 
iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs), can modulate endogenous oxytocin secretion by 
targeting the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and improve autistic-like behavior 
in mice. In this study, the underlying mechanisms of this system were explored. 
Our findings demonstrate that pMSS bi-directionally regulates oxytocin 
secretion, inhibiting secretion at a low frequency (1 Hz) and promoting 
secretion at a high frequency (10 Hz). Transcriptome screening and replicate 
validation reveal that 10 Hz-pMSS promotes the expression of mechanosensitive 
Piezo2 channels on oxytocinergic neurons, increasing neuronal calcium influx and 
activating oxytocin and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways. Specific knockdown of 
Piezo2 in PVN blocks the effect of 10 Hz-pMSS, improving autistic-like behavior 
in mice. Mechanistically, valproic acid-induced autism model mice exhibit low 
oxytocin secretion and inhibition of neurite growth, and magnetomechanical 
stimulation by 10 Hz-pMSS can reverse these differences. Thus, 10 Hz-pMSS 
targeting the PVN rapidly reduces autistic-like behaviors in mice mediated by 
activation of Piezo2 in the PVN, increased neuronal calcium influx, and 
alterations in oxytocin secretion and neurite growth.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12951-025-03557-x
PMCID: PMC12235948
PMID: 40624676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal experiments were approved by the Institutional Animal 
Care and Use Committee of Southeastern University (Approval No.20210311002). 
Consent for publication: All authors agree to publish this manuscript. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


94. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2025 Jul 7;13(1):150. doi:
10.1186/s40478-025-02072-2.

Immunoelectron microscopy and biochemical studies using three anti-tau 
antibodies in human brains: associations between pTau and ribosomes.

Price D(1), Cramer J(2), Rogers CB(1), Prajapati P(1), Shakhashiro Y(1), Nelson 
PT(1)(3), Wang WX(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA.
(2)Electron Microscopy Center, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA.
(3)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA.
(4)Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA. wwangc@uky.edu.
(5)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA. wwangc@uky.edu.
(6)Spinal Cord and Brain Injury Research Center, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA. 
wwangc@uky.edu.
(7)Neuroscience, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, 40536, USA. 
wwangc@uky.edu.

The hallmark neuropathological lesions of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are 
extracellular amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaque deposits and intracellular Tau 
neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). Identifying the intracellular localization of 
early pathologic changes can enhance our understanding of disease mechanisms and 
stimulate new approaches in diagnosis and treatment. Despite extensive 
biochemical studies of AD-related protein aggregates, there have been relatively 
few studies recently in terms of transmission electron microscopy of 
proteinaceous lesions in human brains across a range of disease severity. Here 
we performed immunoelectron microscope studies used three anti-Tau antibodies 
(MC-1, AT8, and PHF-1) on short post-mortem interval (PMI) human brain tissues 
obtained from the University of Kentucky Alzheimer's Disease Research Center 
(UK-ADRC) autopsy cohort, along with corresponding biochemical and 
immunofluorescent studies. Although these three antibodies have been reported to 
label different phases of NFT formation, in our hands they all tended to stain 
pathologic structures along a continuum that included pretangles and mature 
NFTs. Immunoelectron microscopy studies, augmented by serial sectioning, 
revealed that all three Tau antibodies recognize both granular and fibrillary 
structures in pretangles and early-stage NFTs. Phosphorylated Tau (pTau) 
immunoreactivity often exhibited a peri-nuclear distribution. The pTau was 
frequently found localized to ribosomes, either free within the cytoplasm or 
attached to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). This observation aligns with 
previous descriptions, but the enhanced ultrastructural preservation provided 
improved resolution. Subcellular fractionation and Western blot analyses 
confirmed the enrichment of pTau in the ER fractions in AD brains. 
Interestingly, total Tau (including non-phosphorylated Tau) did not 
preferentially co-purify with the ER in non-AD brains. Immunofluorescent 
staining revealed that pTau immunoreactivity evolved from cytoplasmic granules 
in pretangles, with an intracytoplasmic distribution that overlapped 
complementarily with ribosome and ER markers. Our results suggest that 
biochemical associations between pTau with ribosomes and ER are a common 
phenomenon in human aged brains.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-025-02072-2
PMCID: PMC12232755
PMID: 40624595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Procedures and protocols related to the human brain autopsies were 
conducted with consent and approved by the University of Kentucky Institutional 
Review Board (IRB no. 44009). Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


95. BMC Neurol. 2025 Jul 7;25(1):281. doi: 10.1186/s12883-025-04302-5.

Two cases of Amyloid-Related Imaging Abnormalities (ARIA) following lecanemab 
treatment for alzheimer's disease and a literature review.

Wang Y(#)(1), Yu Q(#)(2), Chen B(2), Zhou J(1), Li Z(3)(4), Liao W(5), Liu J(2), 
Yang A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Guangzhou Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510245, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of 
Neurogenetics and Channelopathies of Guangdong Province and the Ministry of 
Education of China, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Guangzhou Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510260, China.
(3)Department of Radiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Guangzhou Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510245, China. zm088055@163.com.
(4)Qinghai Cardio-Cerebrovascular Specialty Hospital, Qinghai High Altitude 
Medical Research Institute, Xining, 810012, Qinghai, China. zm088055@163.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of 
Neurogenetics and Channelopathies of Guangdong Province and the Ministry of 
Education of China, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Guangzhou Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510260, China. liaowang@gzhmu.edu.cn.
(6)Qinghai Cardio-Cerebrovascular Specialty Hospital, Qinghai High Altitude 
Medical Research Institute, Xining, 810012, Qinghai, China. 13119762686@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the imaging characteristics and management strategies 
of amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
patients treated with lecanemab.
METHODS: We report two clinical cases of ARIA following lecanemab treatment and 
analyze the imaging features, risk factors, and management strategies of ARIA 
based on the latest literature.
RESULTS: The occurrence of ARIA is associated with risk factors such as advanced 
age, ApoE ε4 carrier status, cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA), and a history of 
cerebrovascular disease.
CONCLUSION: During lecanemab treatment for AD, it is essential to fully 
understand the mechanisms, imaging characteristics, and management strategies of 
ARIA. Close monitoring of clinical symptoms and imaging changes is crucial for 
the timely detection and appropriate management of ARIA.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12883-025-04302-5
PMCID: PMC12232832
PMID: 40624486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Clinical Research and Application 
Ethics Committee of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical 
University (approval no. KY-EC2024-049-01). We certify that the study was 
performed in accordance with the 1964 declaration of HELSINKI and later 
amendments. Consent for publication: Written informed consent to publish was 
obtained from all the participants and/or legal guardians for the study. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


96. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2025 Jul 15;122(28):e2417944122. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2417944122. Epub 2025 Jul 7.

An aminosterol breaks the autocatalytic cycle of Aβ(42) aggregation and protects 
cell membranes from its soluble aggregates.

Fallot LB(1)(2), Pinc JR(1), Buselmeier JE(1), Palchak JC(1), Shroff SS(1), Zang 
K(1), Rinauro DJ(3), Bacon KM(1), Nguyen M(1), Schleck MC(1), Cornell AR(1), 
Oshidar A(1), Darrell DJ(1), Gabriel JM(1), Wright AK(1), Sasser LR(1), Kreiser 
RP(1), Burpo FJ(1)(2), Santambrogio A(3), Xu P(3), Kubiak RW 2nd(1), Loverde 
J(1), Jaffett VA(1)(2), Toole JR(1), Barbut D(4), Zasloff M(4)(5), Chiti F(6), 
Dear AJ(7)(8), Vendruscolo M(3), Limbocker R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Life Science, United States Military Academy, 
West Point, NY 10996.
(2)Photonics Research Center, United States Military Academy, West Point, NY 
10996.
(3)Centre for Misfolding Diseases, Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry, 
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1EW, United Kingdom.
(4)BAZ Therapeutics, Inc., Philadelphia, PA 19103.
(5)MedStar-Georgetown Transplant Institute, Georgetown University School of 
Medicine, Washington, DC 20010.
(6)Section of Biochemistry, Department of Experimental and Clinical Biomedical 
Sciences, University of Florence, Florence 50134, Italy.
(7)Department of Biology, Institute of Biochemistry, ETH Zurich, Zurich 8093, 
Switzerland.
(8)Bringing Materials to Life Initiative, ETH Zurich, Zurich 8093, Switzerland.

Aberrant aggregates of the 42-residue form of the amyloid-β peptide (Aβ42) are 
cytotoxic in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Cost-effective and chronically safe 
disease-modifying therapeutics are needed to address the AD medical emergency 
worldwide. To increase our understanding of the mechanisms of Aβ42-induced 
cytotoxicity and to investigate clinically relevant aminosterols, we study the 
impact of claramine on the aggregation kinetics and properties of Aβ42 
aggregates, as well as the ability of these proteotoxic species to bind and 
disrupt cell membranes. Whereas previously studied aminosterols accelerated Aβ42 
aggregation, we show that claramine potently inhibits Aβ42 amyloid fibril 
formation. We find that claramine stabilizes soluble Aβ42, speeding up primary 
and secondary nucleation into species with antiparallel β-sheet structure that 
are elongation incompetent, thereby depleting Aβ42 monomers from the aggregation 
reaction. This steroid-polyamine also dissociates Aβ42 fibrillar aggregates, 
resulting in the abrogation of the autocatalytic capacity of Aβ42 fibrils, and 
it also inhibits the aggregation of a tau fragment relevant to AD. Upon exposure 
of human neuroblastoma cells to stabilized Aβ42 oligomers, claramine effectively 
neutralized Aβ42 oligomer-induced cytotoxicity by preventing their binding to 
cell membranes. Owing to the unique mechanism of action of aminosterols to 
reduce the toxicity of soluble Aβ42 aggregates by protecting cell membranes, and 
the newly characterized ability of claramine to inhibit Aβ42 fibril formation 
and dissociate fibrillar Aβ42 resulting in the interruption of the positive 
feedback loop in Aβ42 aggregation, our findings further emphasize the relevance 
of this family of natural products as potential treatments for AD and other 
protein misfolding diseases.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2417944122
PMCID: PMC12280974
PMID: 40623182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:The views, 
opinions, and/or findings expressed herein are those of the authors and should 
not be interpreted as representing the official views or policies of the United 
States Military Academy, the Department of the Army, the Department of Defense, 
or the U.S. Government. M.Z. and D.B. are founders of Enterin, Inc., which is 
developing drugs for Parkinson’s, and BAZ Therapeutics, which is focused on 
reversing age-related diseases. M.Z. and D.B. own patents for the use of 
squalamine in the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. A provisional patent based 
in largest part on the results described in this manuscript has been filed, with 
Lucas Fallot and Ryan Limbocker as inventors. The remaining authors declare no 
competing interests.


97. J Vis Exp. 2025 Jun 17;(220). doi: 10.3791/67642.

Assessing Microglial Phagocytosis of Myelin Debris in vitro Under Repeated 
Magnetic Stimulation.

Zhai C(1), Cai J(2), Du M(3), Fei Y(4), Wu Q(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Affiliated Suzhou Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University.
(2)Rehabilitation Medicine Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University.
(3)Department of Children's Rehabilitation, Linyi People's Hospital.
(4)Department of Endocrinology, People's Hospital of Dongxihu District.
(5)Department of Rehabilitation, Hengyang Medical School, The First Affiliated 
Hospital, University of South China; wuqi87@126.com.

Microglia, the resident phagocytes of the central nervous system (CNS), play a 
pivotal role in maintaining CNS integrity and homeostasis by removing damaged 
cells, cellular debris, and myelin remnants. The accumulation of myelin debris 
is implicated in a range of CNS disorders, including multiple sclerosis, 
Alzheimer's disease, traumatic brain injury, and spinal cord injury. The 
presence of myelin debris not only exacerbates neuroinflammation but also 
hampers the regenerative potential of myelin. Therefore, enhancing the ability 
of microglia to clear myelin debris through phagocytosis represents a promising 
therapeutic strategy. Magnetic stimulation has emerged as an innovative 
treatment modality for CNS diseases, with growing evidence suggesting its 
potential to promote microglial phagocytosis and support CNS recovery. To 
further elucidate the effects of magnetic stimulation on microglial clearance of 
myelin debris, we designed an in vitro experiment involving the co-culture of 
microglia and myelin debris. The co-culture was subjected to repetitive magnetic 
stimulation to assess its impact on microglial phagocytic activity in the 
context of CNS pathology.

DOI: 10.3791/67642
PMID: 40622958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2025 Aug 1;329(2):E266-E275. doi: 
10.1152/ajpendo.00166.2025. Epub 2025 Jul 7.

Breaking the vicious cycle: bitter compounds targeting metabolic defects and 
inflammation in Alzheimer's disease.

Wu H(1), He L(1), Dai L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
progressive cognitive decline, poses an increasing global health burden among 
aging populations. Despite decades of research, its pathogenesis remains 
incompletely understood, and effective therapies are urgently needed. Growing 
evidence links AD progression to inflammation and type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM), with hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, and chronic inflammation 
synergistically driving neuronal dysfunction. These factors perpetuate a 
pathogenic "metabolic-inflammatory cycle": inflammatory cytokines disrupt 
insulin signaling, exacerbating insulin resistance, which further amplifies 
neuroinflammation. Whereas anti-inflammatory and antidiabetic drugs show limited 
clinical efficacy in AD, bitter compounds, natural and synthetic agents with 
pleiotropic bioactivities, offer a novel therapeutic avenue. Notably, bitter 
compounds such as the alkaloid berberine, the flavonoid naringenin, and 
synthetic bitter compounds such as denatonium benzoate and metformin exhibit 
dual anti-inflammatory and metabolic regulatory effects. Preclinical studies 
have demonstrated their ability to suppress neuroinflammation, restore insulin 
sensitivity, and mitigate amyloid/tau pathology, potentially disrupting the 
metabolic-inflammatory cycle. Emerging insights also highlight their modulation 
of the gut-brain axis, linking intestinal homeostasis to neuroprotection. This 
mini-review synthesizes current evidence on the interplay of T2DM and 
inflammation in AD, emphasizing how bitter compounds target immunometabolic 
cross talk. This review also briefly discusses the metabolic and 
anti-inflammatory properties of bitter compounds via the gut-brain axis, 
alongside their potential for combination with current anti-AD drugs, suggesting 
multidisciplinary collaboration. Further mechanistic studies and clinical 
validation are warranted to translate bitter compound-based therapies into 
practice, addressing unmet needs in AD management.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00166.2025
PMID: 40622910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. JAMA Neurol. 2025 Jul 7;82(8):848-58. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2025.1801.
Online  ahead of print.

Higher Educational Attainment and Accelerated Tau Accumulation in Alzheimer 
Disease.

Cai Y(1), Fang L(1), Yang J(1)(2), Zhou X(1)(3), Liu L(1), Li A(1)(4), Sun P(1), 
Lan G(1), He Z(1)(5), Zhu Y(1)(4), Zhang L(1)(6), Jiang M(1)(7), Yu X(8), Liu 
Z(1), Guo T(1)(9)(10); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative Group.

Collaborators: Weiner MW, Aisen P, Petersen R, Jack CR Jr, Jagust W, Trojanowki 
JQ, Toga AW, Beckett L, Green RC, Saykin AJ, Morris JC, Perrin RJ, Shaw LM, 
Khachaturian Z, Carrillo M, Potter W, Barnes L, Bernard M, González H, Ho C, 
Hsiao JK, Jackson J, Masliah E, Masterman D, Okonkwo O, Ryan L, Silverberg N, 
Fleisher A, Sacrey DT, Fockler J, Conti C, Veitch D, Neuhaus J, Jin C, Nosheny 
R, Ashford M, Flenniken D, Kormos A, Montine T, Rafii M, Raman R, Jimenez G, 
Donohue M, Gessert D, Salazar J, Zimmerman C, Cabrera Y, Walter S, Miller G, 
Coker G, Clanton T, Hergesheimer L, Smith S, Adegoke O, Mahboubi P, Moore S, 
Pizzola J, Shaffer E, Sloan B, Harvey D, Forghanian-Arani A, Borowski B, Ward C, 
Schwarz C, Jones D, Gunter J, Kantarci K, Senjem M, Vemuri P, Reid R, Fox NC, 
Malone I, Thompson P, Thomopoulos SI, Nir TM, Jahanshad N, DeCarli C, Knaack A, 
Fletcher E, Tosun-Turgut D, Chen SR, Choe M, Crawford K, Yushkevich PA, Das S, 
Koeppe RA, Reiman EM, Chen K, Mathis C, Landau S, Cairns NJ, Householder E, 
Franklin E, Bernhardt H, Taylor-Reinwald L, Korecka M, Figurski M, Neu S, Nho K, 
Risacher SL, Apostolova LG, Shen L, Foroud TM, Nudelman K, Faber K, Wilmes K, 
Thal L, Silbert LC, Lind B, Crissey R, Kaye JA, Carter R, Dolen S, Quinn J, 
Schneider LS, Pawluczyk S, Becerra M, Teodoro L, Dagerman K, Spann BM, Brewer J, 
Vanderswag H, Ziolkowski J, Heidebrink JL, Zbizek-Nulph L, Lord JL, Mason SS, 
Albers CS, Knopman D, Johnson K, Villaneuva-Meyer J, Pavlik V, Pacini N, Lamb A, 
Kass JS, Doody RS, Shibley V, Chowdhury M, Rountree S, Dang M, Stern Y, Honig 
LS, Mintz A, Ances B, Winkfield D, Carroll M, Stobbs-Cucchi G, Oliver A, Creech 
ML, Mintun MA, Schneider S, Geldmacher D, Love MN, Griffith R, Clark D, 
Brockington J, Marson D, Grossman H, Goldstein MA, Greenberg J, Mitsis E, Shah 
RC, Lamar M, Samuels P, Duara R, Greig-Custo MT, Rodriguez R, Albert M, Onyike 
C, Farrington L, Rudow S, Brichko R, Kielb S, Smith A, Raj BA, Fargher K, 
Sadowski M, Wisniewski T, Shulman M, Faustin A, Rao J, Castro KM, Ulysse A, Chen 
S, Sheikh MO, Singleton-Garvin J, Doraiswamy PM, Petrella JR, James O, Wong TZ, 
Borges-Neto S, Karlawish JH, Wolk DA, Vaishnavi S, Clark CM, Arnold SE, Smith 
CD, Jicha GA, El Khouli R, Raslau FD, Lopez OL, Oakley M, Simpson DM, 
Porsteinsson AP, Martin K, Kowalski N, Keltz M, Goldstein BS, Makino KM, Ismail 
MS, Brand C, Thai G, Pierce A, Yanez B, Sosa E, Witbracht M, Kelley B, Nguyen T, 
Womack K, Mathews D, Quiceno M, Levey AI, Lah JJ, Hajjar I, Cellar JS, Burns JM, 
Swerdlow RH, Brooks WM, Silverman DHS, Kremen S, Tingus K, Lu PH, Bartzokis G, 
Woo E, Teng E, Graff-Radford NR, Parfitt F, Poki-Walker K, Farlow MR, Hake AM, 
Matthews BR, Brosch JR, Herring S, van Dyck CH, Mecca AP, Good SP, MacAvoy MG, 
Carson RE, Varma P, Chertkow H, Vaitekunis S, Hosein C, Black S, Stefanovic B, 
Heyn CC, Hsiung GR, Kim E, Mudge B, Sossi V, Feldman H, Assaly M, Finger E, 
Pasternak S, Rachinsky I, Kertesz A, Drost D, Rogers J, Grant I, Muse B, 
Rogalski E, Robson J, Mesulam MM, Kerwin D, Wu CK, Johnson N, Lipowski K, 
Weintraub S, Bonakdarpour B, Pomara N, Hernando R, Sarrael A, Rosen HJ, Miller 
BL, Perry D, Turner RS, Johnson K, Reynolds B, MCCann K, Poe J, Sperling RA, 
Johnson KA, Marshall GA, Yesavage J, Taylor JL, Chao S, Coleman J, White JD, 
Lane B, Rosen A, Tinklenberg J, Belden CM, Atri A, Clark KA, Zamrini E, Sabbagh 
M, Killiany R, Stern R, Mez J, Kowall N, Budson AE, Obisesan TO, Ntekim OE, 
Wolday S, Khan JI, Nwulia E, Nadarajah S, Lerner A, Ogrocki P, Tatsuoka C, 
Fatica P, Maillard P, Olichney J, Carmichael O, Bates V, Capote H, Rainka M, 
Borrie M, Lee TY, Bartha R, Johnson S, Asthana S, Carlsson CM, Perrin A, Burke 
A, Scharre DW, Kataki M, Tarawneh R, Hart D, Zimmerman EA, Celmins D, Miller DD, 
Boles Ponto LL, Smith KE, Koleva H, Shim H, Nam KW, Schtulz SK, Williamson JD, 
Craft S, Cleveland J, Yang M, Sink KM, Ott BR, Drake J, Tremont G, Daiello LA, 
Ritter A, Bernick C, Munic D, O'Connell A, Mintzer J, Wiliams A, Masdeu J, Shi 
J, Garcia A, Newhouse P, Potkin S, Salloway S, Malloy P, Correia S, Kittur S, 
Pearlson GD, Blank K, Anderson K, Flashman LA, Seltzer M, Hynes ML, Santulli RB, 
Relkin N, Chiang G, Lee A, Lin M, Ravdin L, Sood A, Blanchard KS, Fleischman D, 
Arfanakis K, Varon D, Greig MT, Goldstein B, Martin KS, Reist C, Sadowsky C, 
Martinez W, Villena T, Rosen H, Marshall G, Peskind ER, Petrie EC, Li G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neurological and Psychiatric Disorders, Shenzhen Bay Laboratory, 
Shenzhen, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(3)School of Biomedical Engineering, Hainan University, Haikou, China.
(4)Division of Life Science, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China.
(5)School of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, 
Harbin, China.
(6)School of Biology and Biological Engineering, South China University of 
Technology, Guangzhou, China.
(7)Westlake and Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation PhD 
Program, Westlake University, Shenzhen, China.
(8)Department of Neurology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, China.
(9)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Shenzhen Bay Laboratory, Shenzhen, 
China.
(10)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Peking University Shenzhen Graduate 
School, Shenzhen, China.

IMPORTANCE: The impact of educational attainment (EA) on longitudinal tau 
accumulation remains largely underexplored.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association of EA with tau accumulation in 
Alzheimer disease (AD).
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cohort study used 3 independent samples: 
the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI; October 2015-July 2022, 
mean follow-up: 3.0 years), Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer's 
Disease study (A4; 2014-2022, mean follow-up: 4.7 years), and Greater-Bay-Area 
Healthy Aging Brain Study (GHABS; July 2021-August 2024, mean interval from 
plasma collection to tau positron emission tomography [PET]: 1.0 years). The 
ADNI and GHABS represent Northern American and Southern Chinese populations, 
respectively. A4 is a multicenter trial. Participants with amyloid β (Aβ) and 
subsequent tau PET were included from ADNI, A4, and GHABS, and a subset had 
plasma phosphorylated tau (p-tau) 217 (p-tau217) and resting-state functional 
magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI) data. Data were analyzed from July 2022 to 
January 2025.
EXPOSURES: EA, Aβ-PET, tau-PET, plasma p-tau217, and RS-fMRI.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Participants were classified as high EA and low EA 
based on median years of EA. Longitudinal tau changes were compared across 
Aβ-PET positivity and EA groups. Interactions of EA status with Aβ burden, 
entorhinal tau, and plasma p-tau217 on tau accumulation were investigated in 
Aβ-positive (Aβ+) individuals. Connectivity-associated tau spread was compared 
across different Aβ/EA groups. Whether or not Aβ-targeting treatment attenuated 
tau accumulation in Aβ+ high-EA individuals was also evaluated.
RESULTS: This study included 887 participants: 377 from ADNI (mean [SD] age, 
73.3 [7.2] years; 191 female [50.7%]), 395 from A4 (mean [SD] age, 71.9 [4.8] 
years; 223 female [56.5%]), and 115 from GHABS (mean [SD] years, 66.0 [7.4] 
years; 76 female [66.1%]). In the Aβ-negative group, high-EA individuals 
exhibited slower tau accumulation than low-EA individuals (right middle temporal 
gyrus: estimate = -0.002; 95% CI, -0.003 to -0.0002; P = .03). Conversely, 
higher EA in the Aβ+ group was correlated with accelerated tau accumulation 
(left middle temporal gyrus: estimate = 0.003; 95% CI, 0.0003-0.005; P = .03) 
and stronger Aβ-associated (left visual region: estimate = 0.38; 95% CI, 
0.11-0.65; P = .006), entorhinal tau-associated (left middle temporal gyrus: 
estimate = 0.35; 95% CI, 0.08-0.63; P = .01), and plasma p-tau217-associated tau 
accumulation (left inferior temporal gyrus: estimate = 0.46; 95% CI, 0.02-0.90; 
P = .04), as well as increased connectivity-associated tau spread compared with 
lower EA (estimate = 0.33; 95% CI, 0.003-0.67; P = .048). Aβ-targeting treatment 
appeared to mitigate plasma p-tau217-associated tau accumulation in patients 
with AD and higher EA (estimate = -0.52; 95% CI, -0.80 to -0.24; P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Results of this cohort study suggest that higher EA 
was associated with faster tau accumulation and spread in Aβ+ individuals, 
highlighting the importance of Aβ clearance in mitigating tau progression in 
patients with AD and higher EA.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2025.1801
PMCID: PMC12235535
PMID: 40622710

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Guo 
reported receiving Alzheimer’s Association International Conference (AAIC) 
travel fees for the AAIC 2023 conference and serving on the editor board of 
Alzheimer’s & Dementia. No other disclosures were reported.


100. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 7. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05168-x. Online ahead of 
print.

Ecdysterone and High-Intensity Interval Training Mitigate Alzheimer's Pathology 
in Rats: Impacts on Depression, Synaptic Plasticity, and Neuroinflammation.

Gholipour P(1)(2), Komaki A(3), Parsa H(4), Ramezani M(5).

Author information:
(1)Neurophysiology Research Center, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, 
Hamadan, Iran. parsagholipour1996@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Exercise Physiology, Faculty of Sport Sciences, Bu Ali Sina 
University, Hamedan, Iran. parsagholipour1996@gmail.com.
(3)Neurophysiology Research Center, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, 
Hamadan, Iran.
(4)Department of Exercise Physiology, Faculty of Sport Sciences, Bu Ali Sina 
University, Hamedan, Iran.
(5)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, Iran. m.ramezani@umsha.ac.ir.

The study focuses on the role of neuroinflammation and impaired synaptic 
plasticity in the progression of Alzheimer's disease caused by amyloid-beta 
accumulation. It examines the potential therapeutic effects of Ecdysterone, 
known for its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties, and high-intensity 
interval training, which may also support brain health. The primary goal is to 
assess how Ecdy and HIIT, alone or combined, influence depressive-like behavior, 
synaptic function, inflammation, and Aβ buildup in a rat model of AD. Ten days 
after Aβ administration, treatments began with Ecdy (10 mg/kg/day, orally) 
and/or HIIT, continuing for 8 weeks. Rats were tested for depression-like 
behavior using the forced swim test. Brain synaptic plasticity was measured 
through long-term potentiation at the perforant path-dentate gyrus synapse by 
analyzing population spike amplitude and fEPSP slope. Congo red staining was 
used to identify Aβ plaques in the brain, and neuroinflammatory markers were 
quantified in both the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Aβ injection led to 
depression, impaired synaptic plasticity, increased inflammation, and Aβ buildup 
in the brain. While Ecdy and HIIT individually offered some protection, their 
combination was significantly more effective in improving depression, restoring 
synaptic function, reducing inflammation, and decreasing Aβ accumulation in both 
the hippocampus and cerebral cortex (0.05 > P). This data provides evidence that 
HIIT, accompanied by Ecdy, improves Aβ-induced depression-like behavior, which 
may be partly related to the amelioration of synaptic dysfunction, a decrease in 
neuroinflammation, and suppression of Aβ plaque formation.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05168-x
PMID: 40622523

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.