1. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2025 Jul 19. doi: 10.1007/s00259-025-07452-3.
Online  ahead of print.

Comparison of two preprocessing methods for (18)F-Flortaucipir PET 
quantification in Alzheimer's disease.

Harput E(1), Peretti DE(1), Scheffler M(2), Ashton NJ(3)(4)(5)(6), Blennow 
K(3)(7)(8)(9), Zetterberg H(3)(7)(10)(11)(12)(13), Smith R(14)(15), Frisoni 
GB(16)(17), Garibotto V(1)(18)(19), Boccalini C(20).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers (NIMTlab), Geneva 
University Neurocentre and Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, 1205, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Division of Radiology, Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Banner Alzheimer's Institute and University of Arizona, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(5)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, AZ, 85351, USA.
(6)Centre for Age‑Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, 
Norway.
(7)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(8)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié‑Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(9)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute On Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, People's Republic of China.
(10)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(11)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(12)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(13)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(14)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(15)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(16)Geneva Memory Centre, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, Geneva 
University Hospitals, 1205, Geneva, Switzerland.
(17)Laboratory of Neuroimaging of Aging (LANVIE), University of Geneva, 1205, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(18)Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Geneva University 
Hospitals, 1205, Geneva, Switzerland.
(19)CIBM, Centre for Biomedical Imaging, University of Geneva, 1205, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(20)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers (NIMTlab), 
Geneva University Neurocentre and Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, 
1205, Geneva, Switzerland. cecilia.boccalini@unige.ch.

BACKGROUND: Tau-Positron Emission Tomography (PET) has become central in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) research and clinical settings. Multiple preprocessing 
pipelines for tau-PET quantification have been described, with satisfactory 
performance but direct comparisons remain scarse. Our study evaluates the 
comparability of two commonly used PET preprocessing methods, respectively in 
native and standard spaces, in quantifying tau deposition and in their ability 
to discriminate AD patients.
METHODS: 209 subjects were included from the Geneva memory clinic including 
cognitively unimpaired (CU) individuals, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 
dementia patients. Images were processed in native and standard space using 
inferior cerebellar grey matter as reference region. Standardized uptake value 
ratios (SUVR) were extracted from AD-specific regions. Correlations between SUVR 
obtained by different methods and plasma biomarkers were assessed. ROC analyses 
compared the ability of the two methods to discriminate visually assessed tau 
status, amyloid-positive cognitively impaired from amyloid-negative CU, and 
subjects with declining cognition over time.
RESULTS: SUVR from the two methods were strongly correlated across all regions. 
However, SUVR values obtained with standard space method showed higher values. 
SUVR in the medial temporal lobe from native space processing provided a greater 
accuracy in discriminating positive scans and identifying subjects with 
cognitive decline. For all other analyses methods performed equally well. The 
correlation with plasma biomarkers was comparably high with both methods.
CONCLUSION: While preprocessing in native and standard space is adequate for 
quantifying 18F-Flortaucipir PET and for discriminating AD patients, higher 
accuracy can be obtained in the mesial temporal regions and to predict cognitive 
decline using processing in native space.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-025-07452-3
PMID: 40681899

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent to participate: The local 
Ethics Committee approved the imaging studies, which have been conducted under 
the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and the International Conference 
on Harmonization Good Clinical Practice. Each subject or their relatives 
provided voluntary written informed consent to participate in the studies. 
Competing interests: VG received research support and speaker fees through her 
institution from Healthcare, Siemens Healthineers, Novo Nordisk. Janssen and 
Novartis. GBF has received support, payment, consulting fees, or honoraria 
through his institution for lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educations events from: Biogen, Roche, Diadem, Novo Nordisk, GE 
Healthcare, OM Pharma, and Eisai. GA has served at scientific advisory boards 
and consultants for Roche and Lilly and received honoraria for lectures from 
Lilly and Schwabe Pharma. HZ has served at scientific advisory boards and/ or as 
a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
KB has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for Acumen, ALZPath, 
BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Julius Clinical, Lilly, Novartis, Ono Pharma, 
Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data 
monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, 
produced educational materials, and participated in educational programs for 
Biogen, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program, outside the work presented in this article. The other authors have no 
conflicts of interest to disclose.


2. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 15;1003:177967. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177967. 
Epub 2025 Jul 17.

Investigating the effects of nanoformulated fisetin in Alzheimer's disease: From 
molecular docking to pharmacotherapeutic potential.

Iman Zolkiffly SZ(1), Hasan MH(2), Jusoh SA(1), Janakiraman AK(3), Eshak Z(1), 
Sukumaran SK(4), Jayasingh Chellammal HS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Life Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti 
Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Puncak Alam, Selangor, 42300, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Life Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti 
Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Puncak Alam, Selangor, 42300, Malaysia; Group for 
Affinity, Safety and Efficacy Studies, Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Puncak 
Alam, Selangor, 42300, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, Dr. Kalam College of Pharmacy, Periyanayagipuram 
Village, Avanam, Thanjavur, 614623, Tamil Nadu, India; Department of 
Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, UCSI University, 
UCSI Heights, Cheras, Kuala Lumpur, 56000, Malaysia.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, SNS College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, SNS 
Kalvi Nagar, Saravanampatti, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 641035, India.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Life Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti 
Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Puncak Alam, Selangor, 42300, Malaysia; Group for 
Affinity, Safety and Efficacy Studies, Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Puncak 
Alam, Selangor, 42300, Malaysia; Brain Degeneration & Therapeutics Research 
Group, Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Puncak Alam, Selangor, 42300, Malaysia. 
Electronic address: hanishsinghjc@uitm.edu.my.

Erratum in
    Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Oct 15;1005:178022. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.178022.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177967
PMID: 40680979

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests. Hanish Singh Jayasingh Chellammal 
reports financial support was provided by Mara University of Technology - Puncak 
Alam Campus. Hanish Singh Jayasingh Chellammal reports a relationship with Mara 
University of Technology - Puncak Alam Campus that includes: employment and 
funding grants. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


3. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 15;1003:177958. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177958. 
Epub 2025 Jul 16.

Nasal nanotherapeutics for central nervous system disorders: Bridging the 
translational gap in central nervous system drug delivery.

Zhang Y(1), Liu M(1), Wang Y(1), Hu D(1), Wu S(1), Zhao B(1), Zhou B(1), Yang 
L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotherapy, Cancer Center and State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 610041, China.
(2)Department of Biotherapy, Cancer Center and State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 610041, China. 
Electronic address: yl.tracy73@gmail.com.

Neurological disorders such as neurodegenerative diseases (Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease), cerebrovascular accidents, brain tumors, and functional 
impairments are becoming an increasingly urgent global health concern, 
particularly as aging populations expand worldwide. The blood-brain barrier 
significantly limits current treatment strategies, such as pharmacological 
therapies (oral or systemic), neurosurgical procedures, and neuromodulation. 
This highly selective barrier prevents most small-molecule drugs and virtually 
all biologics from reaching effective concentrations within the central nervous 
system (CNS), thereby restricting their therapeutic potential. Therefore, 
traditional drug delivery methods face challenges in effectively delivering 
therapeutic agents to the CNS. Intranasal delivery circumvents this limitation 
through direct nose-to-brain transport via olfactory/trigeminal pathways, 
achieving higher cerebrospinal fluid drug bioavailability compared to 
intravenous routes. In this review, we present a comprehensive elucidation of 
the pathophysiology of CNS disorders and the intricate mechanisms governing drug 
transport from the nasal cavity. Significantly advancing the field, we provide 
an exhaustive overview of cutting-edge nanocarriers and inhalation devices 
specifically designed for inhalable formulations, highlighting their unique 
advantages and limitations. This review combines clinical and engineering 
insights to evaluate innovative treatment methods through intranasal delivery, 
while identifying critical research pathways for improving central nervous 
system therapies.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177958
PMID: 40680978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


4. J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol. 2025 Nov;254:106836. doi: 
10.1016/j.jsbmb.2025.106836. Epub 2025 Jul 16.

Phytosterols as modulators of gut-brain axis and neuroinflammation in 
Alzheimer's disease: A novel therapeutic avenue in aging research.

Ganamurali N(1), S B V(2), Sabarathinam S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Saveetha Medical College and Hospital, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), Saveetha University, 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu 602105, India; Helix Research Studio, Saveetha Medical 
College and Hospital, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences 
(SIMATS), Saveetha University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 602105, India.
(2)Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), Saveetha 
University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 602105, India.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Saveetha Medical College and Hospital, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), Saveetha University, 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu 602105, India; Helix Research Studio, Saveetha Medical 
College and Hospital, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences 
(SIMATS), Saveetha University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 602105, India. Electronic 
address: Sarveshtvg@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-β deposition and 
neuroinflammation. Emerging evidence implicates gut microbiota dysbiosis and 
gut-brain axis dysfunction in AD pathogenesis, while phytosterols-plant sterols 
similar to cholesterol-modulate microbiota composition, lipid metabolism, and 
inflammatory pathways. To review evidence of phytosterols as modulators of the 
gut-brain axis and neuroinflammation in AD, outlining mechanisms, therapeutic 
potential, and delivery approaches. A literature search of PubMed, Scopus, and 
Web of Science identified studies on phytosterols, gut microbiota modulation, 
neuroinflammation, and AD. Mechanistic data on sterol structure-activity 
relationships, microbiota-derived metabolites, and in vivo AD outcomes were 
extracted and synthesized. Phytosterols lower systemic cholesterol, cross the 
blood-brain barrier, and accumulate in neural tissue. They enrich short-chain 
fatty acid-producing gut microbes, suppress pathogens, and increase secondary 
bile acids that activate FXR and TGR5 signaling, attenuating neuroinflammation. 
Preclinical AD models show reduced amyloid-β, decreased microglial activation, 
and improved cognition. Nanoencapsulation and esterification strategies enhance 
CNS bioavailability. Phytosterols modulate cholesterol, gut microbiota, and 
neuroinflammatory pathways through FXR- and TGR5-mediated signaling. Advanced 
delivery systems and microbiome-informed dosing strategies may enhance their 
therapeutic precision and uptake. Future studies should focus on stratified 
human trials to validate efficacy and enable personalized interventions in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsbmb.2025.106836
PMID: 40680898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


5. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Sep;190:118354. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118354. 
Epub 2025 Jul 17.

Copper metabolism and cuproptosis in Alzheimer's disease: mechanisms and 
therapeutic potential.

Meng D(1), Luo G(2), Liu P(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shandong University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Jinan, Shandong 250355, China.
(2)Pain Medicine Department, The Fifth People's Hospital of Jinan, Jinan, 
Shandong 250000, China.
(3)Traditional Chinese Medicine Department, Shandong Provincial Maternal and 
Child Health Care Hospital, Jinan City, Shandong Province 250014, China. 
Electronic address: 906131715@qq.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with an increasing 
incidence rate year by year. The pathogenesis of AD is complex and closely 
related to protein misfolding and aggregation, neuroinflammation, oxidative 
stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and other factors. Cuproptosis is a newly 
discovered form of programmed cell death caused by excessive intracellular 
copper. Unlike other known forms of cell death, it shows significant potential 
in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Copper binds to the acylated 
components of the tricarboxylic acid cycle, causing protein toxicity stress, 
which ultimately leads to cell cuproptosis. AD is characterized by pathological 
features such as β-amyloid plaque formation and excessive phosphorylation of tau 
protein, which are closely linked to the cuproptosis mechanism. However, the 
specific relationship between the pathogenesis of AD and copper metabolism 
remains unclear. This article summarizes the metabolism of copper in the brain, 
the mechanisms of cuproptosis, and the pathogenesis of cuproptosis in AD, and 
also discusses the regulation of cuproptosis in the treatment of AD. This 
article provides a basis for targeted research on cuproptosis in AD.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118354
PMID: 40680673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have NO affiliations with or involvement in any organization 
or entity with any financial interest in the subject matter or materials 
discussed in this manuscript.


6. Immunobiology. 2025 Jul;230(4):153097. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2025.153097. Epub 
2025 Jul 12.

Amyloid β (Aβ) inhibits retinal angiogenesis in Alzheimer's disease via 
LncRNA-XIST/miRNA-126-5p/VEGF axis.

Wang B(1), Li W(2), Hong C(3), Jin F(4), Xu B(5), Guo Z(5), Chen S(5), Zhang 
Q(6).

Author information:
(1)The Second Clinical Medical College of Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; Zhejiang Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; Tongde Hospital of Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang, China.
(2)Zhejiang Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; 
Tongde Hospital of Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China. Electronic 
address: liwenwei@zjsltdyy.wecom.work.
(3)Eye Center of Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 
China.
(4)The Second Clinical Medical College of Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(5)Zhejiang Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; 
Tongde Hospital of Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(6)Eye Center of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is often accompanied by retinal lesions, in which 
Amyloid β (Aβ) is a key mediator. Vascular dysfunction is always associated with 
the malignant progression of AD, but the precise mechanisms remain poorly 
understood. The aim of this study is to investigate how Aβ regulates retinal 
angiogenesis in AD models through the LncRNA-XIST/miR-126-5p/VEGF axis. The 
research results showed that in the retina of AD model mice, the expression of 
Aβ and miR-126-5p increased, while the expression of LncRNA-XIST and VEGF 
decreased. In vitro experiments demonstrated that Aβ treatment downregulated 
LncRNA-XIST and VEGF expression in RF/6 A cells, while upregulating miR-126-5p 
and significantly suppressing angiogenesis. Overexpression of LncRNA-XIST can 
reverse the inhibitory effect of Aβ on angiogenesis, while further 
overexpression of miR-126-5p can counteract the pro-angiogenic effect of 
LncRNA-XIST. The dual-luciferase reporter assay results showed that Aβ repressed 
the transcriptional activity of the LncRNA-XIST promoter by targeting the -800 
to -600 fragment. Mechanism studies have revealed that LncRNA-XIST competitively 
binds to miR-126-5p, preventing its binding to VEGF mRNA and upregulating VEGF 
expression. In vivo experiments demonstrated that miR-126-5p inhibitor resulted 
in elevated expression of LncRNA-XIST and VEGF in the mouse retina. This study 
reveals the molecular mechanism by which Aβ regulates retinal angiogenesis in AD 
models through the LncRNA-XIST/miR-126-5p/VEGF axis, providing a potential new 
strategy for targeted therapy of AD-related retinal lesions.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2025.153097
PMID: 40680380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Wenwei Li reports financial support 
was provided by Zhejiang Provincial Basic Public Welfare Research of China. If 
there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.


7. Bioorg Med Chem. 2025 Nov 1;129:118302. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2025.118302. Epub 
2025 Jul 14.

Inhibition of amyloid fibrillization of amyloid β peptide by 4,7-disubstituted 
coumarin derivatives.

Hamuľaková S(1), Gucký A(2), Mezencev R(3), Kožurková M(2), Bednáriková Z(4), 
Marek J(4), Soukup O(5), Janoušek J(5), Gažová Z(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Organic Chemistry, Institute of Chemical Sciences, Faculty of 
Science, Pavol Jozef Safarik University, Moyzesova 11, 041 67 Kosice, Slovak 
Republic. Electronic address: slavka.hamulakova@upjs.sk.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Chemical Sciences, Faculty of 
Science, Pavol Jozef Safarik University, Moyzesova 11, 041 67 Kosice, Slovak 
Republic.
(3)School of Biological Sciences, Georgia Institute of Technology, Krone 
Engineered Biosystems Building, 950 Atlantic Drive NW, Atlanta, GA 30332-2000, 
USA; Parker H. Petit Institute of Bioengineering and Biosciences, Georgia 
Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Institute of Experimetal Physics, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Watsonova 47, 
040 01 Kosice, Slovak Republic.
(5)Biomedical Research Center, University Hospital Hradec Kralove, Sokolska 581, 
500 05 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(6)Institute of Experimetal Physics, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Watsonova 47, 
040 01 Kosice, Slovak Republic. Electronic address: gazova@saske.sk.

Coumarins are well-known for their unique chemical structure and a wide range of 
biological effects. Various substituted coumarin-based compounds have emerged as 
promising candidates for the development of novel therapeutic agents against 
numerous diseases. This study was focused on the synthesis of new 
4,7-disubstituted coumarin derivatives and investigation of their ability to 
inhibit the aggregation of Aβ40 peptide, their cytotoxic effect on SH-SY5Y 
cells, their antioxidant properties, and their ability to penetrate the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB). The results revealed that the trihydroxy derivatives 
5a-c had been the most effective inhibitors of Aβ aggregation, promoting the 
formation of non-toxic, amorphous aggregates instead. Importantly, no 
significant decrease in the viability of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells was 
observed after treatment with the studied coumarins. Among them, coumarin 5a 
demonstrated the strongest antioxidant activity, while compound 5b also 
exhibited good antioxidant properties, along with the best inhibition of Aβ 
aggregation (IC50 = 13.5 μM), and adequate permeability across the blood-brain 
barrier. These findings suggest that compound 5b is a promising candidate for 
further investigation in Alzheimer's disease pharmacotherapy.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2025.118302
PMID: 40680313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


8. PLoS One. 2025 Jul 18;20(7):e0326881. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0326881. 
eCollection 2025.

Transcranial photobiomodulation therapy with 808 nm light changes expression of 
genes and proteins associated with neuroprotection, neuroinflammation, oxidative 
stress, and Alzheimer's disease: Whole RNA sequencing of mouse cortex and 
hippocampus.

Li B(1), Golovynska I(1), Stepanov YV(2), Golovynskyi S(1), Golovynskyi A(3), 
Kolesnik D(2), Stepanova LI(4), Lai P(5), Lin F(1), Qu J(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Physics and Optoelectronic Engineering, Center for Biomedical 
Photonics, Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Devices and Systems of Ministry of 
Education and Guangdong Province, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, P. R. China.
(2)R.E. Kavetsky Institute of Experimental Pathology, Oncology and Radiobiology, 
NAS of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(3)V.M. Glushkov Institute of Cybernetics, NAS of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(4)Institute of Biology and Medicine, Taras Shevchenko National University of 
Kyiv, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Hong Kong SAR, China.

Light therapy, using red and near-infrared (NIR) irradiation, is currently 
applied for the treatment of various neurodegenerative diseases, such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Transcranial photobiomodulation therapy (tPBMT) can 
alleviate neurodegeneration, neuronal loss, and β-amyloid peptide plaque burden. 
Alternatively, potential early inhibition of oxidative stress, 
neuroinflammation, apoptosis, and amyloidogenic cellular pathways may constrain 
pathological changes with aging. In this research, we conduct an 808-nm tPBMT 
with a 30-day course of daily 1-hour sessions for mice and assess its influence 
on molecular mechanisms related to the potential onset of neurodegeneration. To 
comprehensively identify molecular mechanisms of tPBMT on the brain cells, the 
next-generation whole RNA sequencing of over 30,000 mRNA of the cortex and 
hippocampus of BALB/c mice is performed. After tPBMT, transcriptional 
alterations are found in 1,005 genes in the hippocampus and 1,482 genes in the 
cortex. Pathway-gene enrichment network analysis identifies genes associated 
with about 20 pathways of neurodegeneration, and a disease-gene network is 
constructed. Particularly, tPBMT alters the transcription and expression of the 
essential genes associated with oxidative stress (NF-κBIα, JUN, JUND, and PKC 
genes), inflammation (DOCK4/6, IL-1RAPL1, and TNFαIP6), and apoptosis (CASP3, 
TNFαIP6, AKT3, CDKN1A, CYP51, RASA2, and RESTAT). Additionally, 808-nm light 
modulates the main risk genes for AD (BACE1, BACE2, PSEN2, APH1B, GATA2, YY2, 
RELA, STAT3, JUN, JUND, ARNTL, CREB3L1, CELF2, E2F4, ELK3, and CEBPD), involved 
in APP processing supporting AD development. Moreover, the APP concentration is 
reduced after tPBMT. Hence, PBMT may help inhibit the development of different 
neurodegeneration types and maintain normal brain conditions.

Copyright: © 2025 Li et al. This is an open access article distributed under the 
terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted 
use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author 
and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0326881
PMCID: PMC12273915
PMID: 40679987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors has a conflict of interest. 
All the data are available on request to authors.


9. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 18. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05216-6. Online ahead of 
print.

Deciphering Molecular and Signaling Pathways of Extracellular Vesicles-Based 
Therapeutics for Alzheimer's Disease.

Dhapola R(1), Kumari S(1), Sharma P(1), Paidlewar M(1), Medhi B(2), Vellingiri 
B(3), HariKrishnaReddy D(4).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Pharmacology and Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of 
Pharmacology, School of Health Sciences, Central University of Punjab, Ghudda, 
Bathinda, 151401, Punjab, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, 160012, India.
(3)Human Cytogenetics and Stem Cell Laboratory, Department of Zoology, School of 
Basic Sciences, Central University of Punjab, 151401, Bathinda, Punjab, India.
(4)Advanced Pharmacology and Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of 
Pharmacology, School of Health Sciences, Central University of Punjab, Ghudda, 
Bathinda, 151401, Punjab, India. harikrishnareddy0011@gmail.com.

The rapidly growing aging population and increasing risk of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) necessitate the development of more effective therapeutic strategies. 
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have emerged as a promising therapeutic avenue for 
AD. EVs, including exosomes, microvesicles, and apoptotic bodies, are lipid 
bilayer-enclosed particles secreted by various cells that mediate intercellular 
communication through the transfer of proteins, lipids, RNA, and other bioactive 
molecules. EVs have various advantages over traditional therapeutic strategies, 
including high bioavailability, exceptional biocompatibility, and low 
immunogenicity. There are various methods for extraction and isolation of EVs to 
ensure reproducibility and characterization. Amyloid plaque formation, tau 
hyperphosphorylation, neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and synaptic loss in 
AD are efficiently ameliorated using EVs. Moreover, signaling pathways are 
reported to be altered in AD, which have also been found to be regulated by EVs 
to promote neuronal growth and survival, including NFκB, MAPK, NLRP3, 
Nrf2/Keap1, HO-1, and TFAM. Preclinical studies have demonstrated that EVs 
derived from various sources, including mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), neural 
stem cells (NSCs), and immune cells, can attenuate AD pathology by reducing 
amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation, mitigating tau hyperphosphorylation, enhancing 
autophagy, and promoting synaptic plasticity. EV-based therapies for AD are in 
early clinical evaluation, with ongoing trials assessing their safety and 
efficacy. Key challenges include dosing, biodistribution, large-scale 
production, and immune responses. Despite these hurdles, EVs offer a promising, 
non-invasive alternative to stem cell therapy with lower risks and improved 
targeting potential.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05216-6
PMID: 40679697

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: Yes. Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


10. Anal Chem. 2025 Jul 29;97(29):15941-15948. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5c02541.
 Epub 2025 Jul 18.

Fully Integrated Wearable Biosensor for Multiple In Situ Phosphorylated Tau 
Protein Detection.

Sun X(1), Zhong G(2), Zeng Y(1), Xu T(2), Liu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Affiliated Longgang Central Hospital of Shantou University Medical College, 
Longgang Central Hospital of Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518116, P. R. China.
(2)Institute for Advanced Study, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, P. R. 
China.

Early diagnosis is critical for the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), as it allows for timely detection and intervention. Here, we 
developed a fully integrated wearable electrochemical sensing patch for early 
screening of AD, which combines sample collection and detection within a device. 
This wearable patch integrates a custom-developed microneedle sampling system 
with a wearable multimodal electrochemical biosensor. Such a microneedle 
sampling system can deliver interstitial fluid (ISF) to the detection area 
through a microneedle array, where the electrochemical sensing system can 
directly detect AD-related biomarkers P-tau181 and P-tau217 in situ with 
detection limits of 0.058 and 0.079 pg/mL. Additionally, the sensing patch 
includes a Bluetooth module, enabling the transmission of detection results to a 
mobile phone APP for display and further detection control. This fully 
integrated wearable electrochemical sensing patch provides a promising strategy 
for early multiple in situ diagnosis of AD.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5c02541
PMID: 40679583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Adv Sci (Weinh). 2025 Oct;12(37):e14860. doi: 10.1002/advs.202414860. Epub
2025  Jul 18.

Dynein-Dependent Endo-Lysosomal Degradation Drives Lewy Body Disorders 
Accompanied by Aβ Pathology.

Zhou L(1), Wang Y(1), Liu Y(1), Zhu F(2), Gao G(3), Li C(1), Ai P(1), Xu J(4), 
Wang J(3), Guo L(1), Guan Y(5), Lee VM(6), Chen J(4), Zheng J(3), Wu Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology and Brain Functional Modulation, 
Clinical Research Center for Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, 
Translational Research Institute of Brain and Brain-Like Intelligence, Shanghai 
Fourth People's Hospital Affiliated to Tongji University School of Medicine, 
State Key Laboratory of Cardiology and Medical Innovation Center, Shanghai East 
Hospital, School of Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, 200092, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Molecular Developmental Biology, Institute of 
Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
100101, China.
(3)Center for Translational Neurodegeneration and Regenerative Therapy, Tongji 
Hospital affiliated to Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai Frontiers 
Science Center of Nanocatalytic Medicine, The Institute for Biomedical 
Engineering & Nano Science, School of Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, 
200092, China.
(4)School of Medicine, Tongji University, 500 Zhennan Road, Shanghai, 200331, 
China.
(5)Shanghai Frontiers Science Center of Genome Editing and Cell Therapy, 
Shanghai Key Laboratory of Regulatory Biology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences 
and School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai, 200241, 
China.
(6)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Institute on Aging and 
Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.

Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a significant cause of dementia. However, the 
limited availability of animal and cellular models that accurately replicate 
early DLB pathogenesis hampers the understanding of how Aβ plaques influence 
α-synuclein (αSyn) pathologies. This study addresses this gap by co-culturing 
primary neurons with adult hippocampal brain slices from either wild-type or 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) mice containing abundant Aβ plaques and cytokines. 
Neurons exposed to AD slices showed impaired dynein-dependent organelle 
trafficking, reducing endosome-lysosome fusion and causing defective 
degradation of amyloidogenic αSyn fibrils, thus increasing αSyn inclusions. 
Notably, an abnormal pre-accumulation of dynein in AD mice suggests that 
dysfunctional dynein may serve as a nucleation site for αSyn aggregation upon 
exposure to pathogenic fibrils. Furthermore, Rab7 activation successfully 
restored endo-lysosomal degradation of αSyn fibrils and reduced inclusion 
formation in mouse models presenting with both Lewy body and Aβ pathologies. 
These results highlight the dynein-dependent endo-lysosomal pathway as a 
promising therapeutic target for mitigating αSyn-related pathologies in 
co-existing Aβ burden, characteristic of many DLB cases.

© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/advs.202414860
PMCID: PMC12499460
PMID: 40679367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


12. Stat Med. 2025 Jul;44(15-17):e70190. doi: 10.1002/sim.70190.

Neural Network-Based Dynamic Prediction for Interval-Censored Data With 
Time-Varying Covariates: Application to Alzheimer's Disease.

Liu K(1), Zu Y(1), Yi D(1), Ding Y(2), Sun T(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Applied Statistics and School of Statistics, Renmin University of 
China, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder accounting 
for a significant proportion of global dementia cases. Given the lack of 
effective treatments, there is growing interest in dynamic prediction methods 
for timely interventions. Notably, many at-risk individuals with periodic clinic 
visits provide dynamic cognitive and functional scores. When an individual 
receives a new score at each follow-up, the dynamic prediction model can 
integrate the individual's historical scores with the new follow-up scores to 
offer an updated risk prediction. This study utilizes a comprehensive dataset 
from the four phases of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) 
study, comprising 1702 individuals with multiple time-varying cognitive and 
functional scores and baseline covariates. We address several challenges: 
Interval-censored time-to-AD due to intermittent assessments, multiple 
time-varying covariates, and nonlinear covariate effects on AD development. The 
proposed approach integrates multivariate functional principal component 
analysis with a neural network; the former extracts important predictive 
features from multiple time-varying covariates, while the latter handles the 
nonlinear covariate effects on interval-censored time-to-AD. This method 
facilitates individualized and dynamic predictions for AD development. Based on 
simulation results and application to the ADNI dataset, the proposed method 
outperforms several other methods in terms of prediction accuracy. Furthermore, 
it identifies high- and low-risk subgroups with distinct progression risk 
profiles at each landmark time, enabling early and timely intervention of AD. To 
facilitate dynamic predictions in practice, we have developed an online 
prediction platform accessible at http://olap.ruc.edu.cn.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.70190
PMID: 40679169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Dement Geriatr Cogn Dis Extra. 2025 Jun 10;15(1):99-107. doi:
10.1159/000546791.  eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

The Care Pathway for Patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment in Korea: A Survey 
of Dementia Specialists.

Choi SH(1), Shim Y(2), Kim S(3), Yang DW(4), Park KH(5), Kim J(6), Youn YC(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Inha University, Incheon, South 
Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, St. Vincent's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital and Seoul 
National University College of Medicine, Seongnam-si, South Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Gil Medical Center, Gachon 
University, Incheon, South Korea.
(6)Eisai Korea Inc., Seoul, South Korea.
(7)Department of Neurology, Chung-Ang University Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.

INTRODUCTION: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) represents a loss of memory or 
other cognitive function while maintaining the ability to independently perform 
most activities of daily living. This study assessed how Korean specialists in 
dementia care diagnosed and treated patients with MCI symptoms.
METHODS: A questionnaire on the current management of MCI was developed by 6 
experts in MCI care. Specialists in MCI care (n = 24: 14 neurologists/10 
psychiatrists) verbally answered questions relating to their experience/views in 
caring for MCI patients.
RESULTS: Respondents diagnosed MCI using the Seoul Neuropsychological Screening 
Battery (79%) and the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease 
- Korea (21%) neuropsychological battery tests. All or nearly all respondents 
also assessed patients with Mini-Mental State Examination, Geriatric Depression 
Scale, Clinical Dementia Rating, Activities of Daily Living (ADL), and 
Instrumental ADL tests. All respondents used MRI or CT for differential 
diagnosis of diseases causing MCI, about one-third used amyloid PET. Most 
respondents (96%) treated patients with MCI due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) with 
medication, commonly choline alfoscerate (71%) and donepezil (53%), mainly as 
combination therapy. Unmet needs included patient/caregiver education (63%) and 
time constraints for consulting patients (54%). Most respondents considered that 
increased amyloid-β testing for patients with MCI due to AD or subjective 
cognitive decline is likely to increase.
CONCLUSIONS: This survey described the current management of MCI due to AD, 
identified unmet needs and considered possible future developments in the 
changing landscape of early AD treatment. Early detection and diagnosis and 
continued development of emerging preventative or therapeutic interventions are 
critical for MCI outcomes.

© 2025 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000546791
PMCID: PMC12270468
PMID: 40678772

Conflict of interest statement: JinRan Kim is an employee of Eisai Korea Inc. 
All other authors received consultancy fees from Eisai Korea Inc., for 
participating in the survey.


14. iScience. 2025 Jun 10;28(7):112868. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2025.112868.
eCollection  2025 Jul 18.

Deep learning enhanced deciphering of brain activity maps for discovery of 
therapeutics for brain disorders.

Zhang X(1), Liu Z(2), Luo X(2), Cao Y(3)(1), Zhang W(2), Li H(4), Li W(5), Cheng 
SH(1), Haggarty SJ(6), Wang X(3)(7), Shi P(2)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong SAR 999077, China.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong SAR 999077, China.
(3)Department of Surgery, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales 
Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR 999077, China.
(4)Innovation Center for AI and Drug Discovery, East China Normal University, 
Shanghai 200062, China.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, China.
(6)Chemical Neurobiology Laboratory, Precision Therapeutics Unit, Center for 
Genomic Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Department of Neurology, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(7)Shenzhen Research Institute, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong 518057, China.
(8)Hong Kong Centre for Cerebro-Cardiovascular Health Engineering, Hong Kong 
Science Park, Hong Kong SAR 999077, China.
(9)Shenzhen Research Institute, City University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong 518057, China.

This study presents an artificial intelligence enhanced in vivo screening 
platform, DeepBAM, which enables deep learning of large-scale whole brain 
activity maps (BAMs) from living, drug-responsive larval zebrafish for 
neuropharmacological prediction. Automated microfluidics and high-speed 
microscopy are utilized to achieve high-throughput in vivo phenotypic screening 
for generating the BAM library. Deep learning is applied to deconvolve the 
pharmacological information from the BAM library and to predict the 
therapeutical potential of non-clinical compounds without any prior information 
about the chemicals. For a validation set composed of blinded clinical 
neuro-drugs, several potent anti-Parkinson's disease and anti-epileptic drugs 
are predicted with nearly 45% accuracy. The prediction capability of DeepBAM is 
further tested with a set of nonclinical compounds, revealing the pharmaceutical 
potential in 80% of the anti-epileptic and 36% of the anti-Parkinson 
predictions. These data support the notion of systems-level phenotyping in 
combination with machine learning to aid therapeutics discovery for brain 
disorders.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2025.112868
PMCID: PMC12268937
PMID: 40678509

Conflict of interest statement: P.S. is listed as an inventor on a patent (US 
9,897,593) filed by the City University of Hong Kong describing the system for 
automated handling of larval zebrafish. S.J.H. has served or serves on the 
advisory board of Proximity Therapeutics, Psy Therapeutics, Frequency 
Therapeutics, Souvien Therapeutics, Sensorium Therapeutics, 4M Therapeutics, 
Ilios Therapeutics, Entheos Labs, the Alzheimer’s Disease Drug Discovery 
Foundation, and the Kissick Family Foundation FTD grant program, none of whom 
were involved in the present study. S.J.H. has also received speaking or 
consulting fees from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Merck, Regenacy 
Pharmaceuticals, Syros Pharmaceuticals, and Juvenescence Life, as well as 
sponsored research or gift funding from AstraZeneca, JW Pharmaceuticals, Lexicon 
Pharmaceuticals, Vesigen Therapeutics, Compass Pathways, Atai Life Sciences, and 
Stealth Biotherapeutics. The funders had no role in the design or content of 
this article or the decision to submit this review for publication.


15. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 23:rs.3.rs-6924607. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-6924607/v1.

Global C3 lowering in adulthood protects against hippocampal dysfunction and 
cognitive impairment in aged mice.

Batista AF(1), Presumey J(2), Singh B(1), Schroeder MK(1), Khan K(1), Spooner 
E(1), Li S(1), Carroll MC(2), Lemere CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(2)Program in Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 02115, USA.

BACKGROUND: Complement component 3 (C3) is increasingly recognized for its role 
in neurodegenerative processes; however, its specific impact on age-related 
hippocampal dysfunction remains poorly understood. This study investigates the 
effects of inducible C3 knockdown in adulthood on hippocampal function using a 
novel mouse model.
METHODS: We developed a chimeric floxed C3 mouse line (C3fl/fl ) and crossed it 
with Rosa-26-Cre-ERT2+/- mice, resulting in C3fl/fl ; Rosa-26-Cre-ERT2+/- 
(C3iKO) mice that allow for global C3 knockdown via Tamoxifen (TAM) 
administration at any age. Young adult female and male C3iKO mice were treated 
with TAM or corn oil (CO) as a control, to induce global C3 lowering in 4 
cohorts of mice. Serum C3 levels were monitored throughout the lifespan for all 
cohorts. Other outcome measures varied by cohort and included behavior, C3 mRNA 
and protein levels in brain, C1q levels, immune gene expression in brain, 
gliosis, synaptic changes in hippocampus.
RESULTS: TAM treatment led to a sustained reduction in C3 levels in serum, 
liver, and brain tissues of C3iKO mice. Global C3 lowering was associated with 
reduced expression of C1q, C4b, IFNa, IFNb,and APOE, and increase expression of 
homeostatic genes Tgfb1 and Tgfbr1 in mouse brain one-year following TAM 
treatment. Notably, C3 lowering in adulthood conferred significant 
neuroprotection against age-related cognitive decline, which corresponded to 
increased hippocampal synaptic density and dendritic spine formation and 
increased pre-synaptic proteins in hippocampal synaptosomes. Moreover, long-term 
potentiation (LTP) impairments induced by Aβ-oligomers were rescued following C3 
knockdown, highlighting potential therapeutic implications.
CONCLUSION: Our C3iKO mouse model was consistently effective in lowering C3 
levels in the brain and periphery in mice. The findings reported here 
demonstrate that global C3 lowering in adulthood, after brain development, 
protected the brain against age-associated hippocampal dysfunction and cognitive 
decline, suggesting that complement modulation may provide a neuroprotective 
strategy against brain aging. The C3iKO model provides a valuable platform for 
understanding the role of complement C3 in age-related neurodegenerative 
conditions, including Alzheimer's disease. Further studies are needed to better 
understand these neuroprotective effects in models of neurodegeneration and to 
assess the therapeutic potential of complement modulation in the brain.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6924607/v1
PMCID: PMC12270239
PMID: 40678242

Conflict of interest statement: Additional Declarations: The authors declare 
potential competing interests as follows: CAL serves as a consultant to and has 
an unrelated sponsored research agreement from Apellis Pharmaceuticals. All 
other coauthors declare they have no competing interests. Competing interests 
CAL serves as a consultant to and has an unrelated sponsored research agreement 
from Apellis Pharmaceuticals. All other coauthors declare they have no competing 
interests.


16. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 29:rs.3.rs-6440485. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-6440485/v1.

High-sensitivity plasma proteomics reveals disease-specific signatures and 
predictive biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease phenotypes in a large mixed 
dementia cohort.

Gong K(1), Timsina J(1), Ali M(1), Chen Y(1), Liu M(1), Wang C(1), Pottier C(1), 
Feld GK(2), Heo G(1), Benzinger TLS(1), Raji CA(1), Ances B(3), Gordon BA(3), 
Wisch JK(3), Schindler SE(1), Morris JC(1), Holtzman DM(1), Ibanez L(1), 
Cruchaga C(1).

Author information:
(1)Washington University School of Medicine.
(2)Geocyte LLC.
(3)Washington University.

Highly sensitive plasma assays enable accurate blood-based biomarkers for 
neurodegenerative disease and provide minimally invasive options for clinical 
use. Large-scale studies encompassing multiple neurodegenerative diseases and 
utilizing multiplex platforms are essential to uncover disease-specific 
biomarkers and pathways. We generated and analyzed plasma proteomics using the 
NULISASeq™ CNS Disease Panel 120 from 3,002 participants with Alzheimer disease 
(AD), Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Frontotemporal dementia (FTD), Parkinson 
disease (PD) and cognitively unimpaired participants at the Charles F. and 
Joanne Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center. We identified proteins 
associated with disease status and AD-related phenotypes (Clinical Dementia 
Rating® [CDR®], CSF Aβ42/Aβ40, amyloid-PET, and tau-PET tauopathy), which were 
used to identify disease-specific biomarkers and perform pathway analyses. Among 
the 123 measured protein, 78 were associated with AD, two with DLB, two with 
FTD, and one with PD after multiple test correction. Disease comparison showed 
that AD and DLB showed the highest similarity, followed by FTD and DLB. At the 
same time there were also disease-specific signatures. Some AD-specific proteins 
include p-tau217 being AD-specific, MME was specific for FTD, CHR for DLB and 
PARK7 for PD. We also identified 8 proteins associated with Amyloid PET, 7 with 
Tau PET, 14 with CSF Aβ42/40 ration and 73 with CDR, with Amyloid PET and CDR 
showing the highest overlap. As few extensive plasma p-tau217 studies have been 
performed with the NULISA platform, we used a data-driven approach to establish 
the cut-off for biomarker positivity, and analyze its predictivity performance 
for clinical status and amyloid-PET. Plasma p-tau217 achieved an AUC of 0.81 
(95% CI: 0.79-0.83) for AD diagnosis and 0.95 (95% CI: 0.93-0.98) for amyloid 
positivity. Using a two-cutoff approach, plasma p-tau217 had an AUC of 0.95 and 
93.59% agreement with amyloid-PET status. Proteins associated with AD were 
enriched on vascular endothelial growth factor receptor binding, mainly driven 
by VEGFD and VEGFA. Cell death and apoptosis pathways were unique to FTD and 
driven by CCL2 and TREM2, and PD was enriched on enzymatic activity and metal 
ion binding. This is the largest plasma proteomic investigation to date, 
incorporating p-tau217 and utilizing the NULISA platform to understand 
neurodegenerative diseases. It validates the high classification accuracy of 
plasma p-tau217 and its strong correlation with amyloid PET status. 
Additionally, we identify disease-specific proteins that could enhance 
differential diagnosis. These findings underscore the potential of the NULISA 
platform as a reliable quantitative tool for research and clinical applications 
in neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6440485/v1
PMCID: PMC12270213
PMID: 40678230

Conflict of interest statement: CC has received research support from GSK and 
EISAI. CC is a member of the scientific advisory board of Circular Genomics and 
owns stocks. CC is a member of the scientific advisory board of ADmit. GF 
receives consulting fees from Alamar Biosciences. D.M.H. co-founded, has equity, 
receives royalty income, and is on the scientific advisory board of C2N 
Diagnostics. He is on the scientific advisory boards of Denali, Genentech, Cajal 
Neuroscience, and Switch therapeutics and consults for Roche and Pfizer.


17. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jul 3;17:1615718. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1615718.
 eCollection 2025.

Relationship between tau-PET and quantitative susceptibility mapping in atypical 
Alzheimer's disease.

Singh-Reilly N(#)(1), Satoh R(#)(1), Graff-Radford J(2), Machulda MM(3), Lowe 
VJ(1), Josephs KA(2), Whitwell JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, United States.
(2)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, United States.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, United 
States.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Iron is an important component in neurofibrillary tangles, is known 
to co-localize with tangles in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and can be measured 
using quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM). However, it is unclear if iron 
measured using QSM is regionally related to tau in atypical presentations of AD.
METHODS: Forty patients with atypical AD underwent a 3 T magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) scan with a five-echo gradient echo sequence to calculate QSM, Aβ, 
and [18F] AV-1451 positron emission tomography (PET). The relationship between 
QSM and tau-PET was assessed using voxel-based regression analysis using whole 
brain VoxelStats and region-of-interest (ROI)-based Spearman's correlation 
analyses using cortical and subcortical ROIs.
RESULTS: At the voxel-level, positive correlations between tau-PET and QSM were 
only observed in the left caudate. At the ROI-level, a positive association was 
observed between tau-PET and susceptibility in the occipital lobe and a negative 
association was observed between substantia nigra susceptibility and occipital 
tau-PET uptake, although these findings did not survive correction for multiple 
comparisons.
DISCUSSION: Our data provides little evidence that regional tau-PET uptake is 
related to susceptibility changes, suggesting that iron deposition may not be 
directly associated with tau accumulation in atypical AD.

Copyright © 2025 Singh-Reilly, Satoh, Graff-Radford, Machulda, Lowe, Josephs and 
Whitwell.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1615718
PMCID: PMC12267165
PMID: 40678117

Conflict of interest statement: NS-R, JW, MM, KJ reported receiving research 
funding from the NIH. JG-R serves on DSMB for NINDS stroke NET and is an 
investigator for trials sponsored by EISAI and Cognition Therapeutics. VL 
reported consulting for Bayer Schering Pharma, Piramal Life Sciences, Life 
Molecular Imaging, Eisai Inc., AVID Radiopharmaceuticals, and Merck Research and 
receiving research support from GE Healthcare, Siemens Molecular Imaging, AVID 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Elli Lilly and Company and the NIH (NIA, NCI). The 
remaining author declares that the research was conducted in the absence of any 
commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that they were an editorial board 
member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. This had no impact on the peer 
review process and the final decision.


18. Lancet Reg Health Eur. 2025 Jul 3;55:101339. doi:
10.1016/j.lanepe.2025.101339.  eCollection 2025 Aug.

Progression of biological markers in spinocerebellar ataxia type 3: longitudinal 
analysis of prospective data from the ESMI cohort.

Berger M(1)(2), Garcia-Moreno H(3)(4), Ferreira M(5)(6), Hubener-Schmid J(7), 
Schaprian T(5), Wegner P(5)(6), Elter T(4), Teichmann KM(5), Santana 
MM(8)(9)(10), Grobe-Einsler M(5)(11), Oender D(5)(11), Koyak BSC(5)(11), Bernsen 
S(5)(11), Pereira de Almeida L(8)(9)(10), Silva P(8)(9)(10), Ribeiro JA(12), 
Cunha I(13), Gonzalez-Robles C(3), Khan S(3), Heslegrave A(14)(15), Zetterberg 
H(14)(15)(16), Lima M(17)(18), Raposo M(19)(17), Ferreira AF(17)(18), 
Vasconcelos J(20), van de Warrenburg BP(21), van Gaalen J(21)(22), van Prooije 
TH(21), de Vries J(23), Schols L(24)(25), Riess O(7), Synofzik M(25)(26), 
Timmann D(27), Thieme A(27), Erdlenbruch F(27), Infante J(28)(29), Pelayo-Negro 
AL(28)(29), Manrique L(30), Reetz K(31)(32), Dogan I(31)(32), Oz G(33), Joers 
JM(33), Bushara K(34), Onyike C(35), Povazan M(36), Jacobi H(37), Schmahmann 
JD(38), Ratai EM(39), Schmid M(1)(5), Giunti P(3)(4), Klockgether T(5), Faber 
J(5)(11)(40).

Author information:
(1)Medical Faculty, Institute for Medical Biometry, Informatics and 
Epidemiology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(2)Core Facility Biostatistics, Central Institute of Mental Health, Medical 
Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany.
(3)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, UCL Queen Square Institute 
of Neurology, Ataxia Centre, University College London, London WC1N 3BG, UK.
(4)Department of Neurogenetics, National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London 
WC1N 3BG, UK.
(5)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, Germany.
(6)University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(7)Institute for Medical Genetics and Applied Genomics, University of Tuebingen, 
Tuebingen, Germany.
(8)Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra (CNC-UC), 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(9)Center for Innovative in Biomedicine and Biotechnology (CIBB), University of 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(10)Gene Therapy Center of Excellence (GeneT), Coimbra, Portugal.
(11)Department of Parkinson's Disease, Sleep and Movement Disorders, Center for 
Neurology, University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(12)Department of Neurology, Child Development Centre, Coimbra University 
Hospital Center (CHUC), Coimbra, Portugal.
(13)Department of Neurology, Coimbra University Hospital Center (CHUC), Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(14)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, London WC1N 3BG, UK.
(15)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(16)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, S-431 80, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(17)Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia, Universidade dos Açores, Ponta Delgada, 
Portugal.
(18)UMIB - Unit for Multidisciplinary Research in Biomedicine, ICBAS - School of 
Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(19)Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular (IBMC), Instituto de Investigação 
e Inovação em Saúde (i3S), Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(20)Hospital CUF Açores, Lagoa, Portugal.
(21)Department of Neurology, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and 
Behaviour, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(22)Department of Neurology, Rijnstate Hospital, Arnhem, the Netherlands.
(23)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, the 
Netherlands.
(24)Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hertie Institute for Clinical 
Brain Research & Center of Neurology, University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen, 
Germany.
(25)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Tuebingen, Germany.
(26)Division Translational Genomics of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hertie 
Institute for Clinical Brain Research & Center of Neurology, University of 
Tuebingen, Germany.
(27)Department of Neurology and Center for Translational Neuro- and Behavioral 
Sciences (C-TNBS), University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen, 
Essen, Germany.
(28)University Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla-IDIVAL, Santander, Spain.
(29)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Universidad de Cantabria, Santander, Spain.
(30)University Hospital of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(31)Department of Neurology, RWTH Aachen University, Pauwelsstr. 30, Aachen 
52074, Germany.
(32)JARA-BRAIN Institute Molecular Neuroscience and Neuroimaging, Research 
Centre Juelich GmbH and RWTH Aachen University, Aachen 52074, Germany.
(33)Department of Radiology, Center for Magnetic Resonance Research, University 
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(34)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota Medical School, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(35)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(36)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
(37)Department of Neurology, University Hospital of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(38)Laboratory for Neuroanatomy and Cerebellar Neurobiology, Ataxia Center, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, MA, USA.
(39)Department of Radiology, A. A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging and 
Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown, MA, USA.
(40)Department of Neuroradiology, University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2025 Jan 31:2025.01.30.25321426. doi: 10.1101/2025.01.30.25321426.

BACKGROUND: Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) is an autosomal dominantly 
inherited adult-onset disease. We aimed to describe longitudinal changes in 
clinical and biological findings and to identify predictors for clinical 
progression.
METHODS: We used data from participants enrolled in the ESMI cohort collected 
between Nov 09, 2016 and July 18, 2023. The data freeze included data from 14 
sites in five European countries and the United States. We assessed ataxia with 
the Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (SARA). We measured 
disease-specific mutant ataxin-3 protein (ATXN3) and neurofilament light chain 
(NfL) in plasma and performed MRIs. Data were analysed by regression modelling 
on a timescale defined by onset. The onset of abnormality of a marker was 
defined as the time at which its value, as determined by modelling, exceeded the 
mean ± 2 SD of healthy controls. To study responsiveness of markers, we 
determined the sensitivity to change ratios (SCSs).
FINDINGS: Data from 291 SCA3 mutation carriers before and after clinical onset 
and 121 healthy controls were included. NfL levels became abnormal in SCA3 
mutation carriers more than 20 years (-21.5 years [95% CI n.d.-9.5]) before 
onset. The earliest MRI abnormality was volume loss of medulla oblongata (-4.7 
years [95% CI n.d.-3.3]). The responsiveness of markers depended on the disease 
stage. Across all stages, pons volume had the highest responsiveness with an SCS 
of 1.35 [95% CI 1.11-1.78] exceeding that of SARA (0.99 [95% CI 0.88-1.11]). In 
SCA3, lower age (p = 0.0459 [95% CI of slope change -0.0018 to 0.0000]) and 
lower medulla oblongata volume (p < 0.0001 [95% CI of slope change -0.0298 to 
-0.0115]) were predictors of SARA progression.
INTERPRETATION: Our study provides quantitative information on the progression 
of biological markers in SCA3 mutation carriers before and after onset of 
ataxia, and allowed the identification of predictors for clinical progression. 
Our data could prove useful for the design of future clinical trials.
FUNDING: HEU Joint Programme - Neurodegenerative Disease Research (JPND) 
(Federal Ministry of Education and Research, Germany; The Netherlands 
Organisation for Health Research and Development; Foundation for Science and 
Technology, Portugal; Medical Research Council, Regional Fund for Science and 
Technology, Azores), and Servier. At the US sites this work was in part 
supported by the National Ataxia Foundation and the National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) grant R01NS080816.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lanepe.2025.101339
PMCID: PMC12270660
PMID: 40678042

Conflict of interest statement: JF received consultancy honoraria from Vico 
therapeutics, unrelated to the present manuscript. GO has consulted for IXICO 
Technologies Limited, Servier and UCB Biopharma SRL/Lacerta Therapeutics Inc, 
serves on the Scientific Advisory Board of BrainSpec Inc. and received research 
support from Biogen, each unrelated to the current manuscript. JS is site PI for 
Biohaven Pharmaceuticals clinical trials NCT03701399 and NCT02960893; received 
consults for Biohaven Pharmaceuticals; and royalties from Oxford University 
Press, Elsevier, MacKeith Press, and Springer; and is the inventor of the Brief 
Ataxia Rating Scale, Cerebellar Cognitive Affective/Schmahmann Syndrome Scale, 
the Patient Reported Outcome Measure of Ataxia, and the Cerebellar 
Neuropsychiatry Rating Scale which are licenced to the General Hospital 
Corporation; all unrelated to the current manuscript. MGE received consultancy 
honoraria from Biogen and Healthcare Manufaktur Germany, both unrelated to the 
present manuscript. HZ has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a 
consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey 
Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, ScandiBio Therapeutics AB, Siemens Healthineers, 
Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave. HZ is chair of the Alzheimer’s Association 
Global Biomarker Standardization Consortium and chair of the IFCC WG-BND. HZ is 
a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a 
part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, and a shareholder of MicThera 
(outside submitted work). PG has received grants and honoraria for advisory 
board from Vico Therapeutics, honoraria for advisory board from Triplet 
Therapeutics, grants and personal fees from Reata Pharmaceutical, grants from 
Wave. LS has received consultancy honoraria from Vico, Alexion and Novartis, 
unrelated to the present manuscript. MSy has received consultancy honoraria from 
Ionis, UCB, Prevail, Orphazyme, Biogen, Servier, Reata, GenOrph, AviadoBio, 
Biohaven, Zevra, Lilly, Quince, and Solaxa, all unrelated to the present 
manuscript. TK received consultancy honoraria from Arrowhead, Bristol Myers 
Squibb and UCB, unrelated to the present manuscript. KR received consultancy 
honoraria from Roche and Lilly unrelated to the present manuscript. BvdW would 
like to thank Heidi van den Boogaard and Janneke Rigter-Schimmel for their help 
in the ESMI logistics and assessments. JAR received honoraria for participation 
in advisory boards and speaking fees for Roche, Novartis Gene therapy and 
Biogen, all in the field of paediatric neuromuscular disorders. IC has received 
honoraria for participation in advisory boards and speaking fees for Bial, in 
the field of Epilepsy. AT holds stocks of Viatris Inc. is a pharmaceutical 
company. EMR received consulting fees from Aletheia and is part of the advisory 
board of Brain Spec without financial support. We would like to thank Anne 
Boehlen for her support in the administration of ESMI.


19. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70431. doi: 10.1002/alz.70431.

Ethical considerations of disclosure of iatrogenic cerebral amyloid angiopathy.

Kaushik K(1), Eijkholt MM(2), de Graeff N(2), Banerjee G(3), Werring DJ(4), 
Terwindt GM(1), van Etten ES(1), Wermer MJH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical Centre (LUMC), Leiden, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Medical Ethics and Health Law, LUMC, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(3)MRC Prion Unit, Institute of Prion Diseases at University College London 
(UCL), London, UK.
(4)Stroke Research Centre, Department of Brain Repair and Rehabilitation, UCL 
Queen Square Institute of Neurology and the National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, London, UK.
(5)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), 
Groningen, the Netherlands.

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) causes stroke and cognitive decline. The 
recently identified iatrogenic CAA subtype (iCAA) is thought to be transmitted 
through medical procedures involving cadaveric human material and potentially 
neurosurgical instruments or blood transfusions. This raises ethical questions 
concerning disclosure of iCAA. We consider ethical arguments concerning three 
disclosure-related questions. Should clinicians disclose their suspicion of iCAA 
to patients presenting with CAA and a history of relevant exposure? Should 
clinicians recommend the additional tests needed for iCAA diagnosis? Should 
clinicians proactively identify and notify asymptomatic at-risk individuals who 
are unaware of their risk? We conclude that disclosure of the iCAA-diagnosis and 
communication of diagnostic uncertainties are warranted, based on professional 
responsibility to facilitate autonomous decision-making, despite limited 
clinical benefits. While certain diagnoses are impossible, recommending 
additional diagnostics can provide diagnostic support and exclude other causes. 
Notification of known exposure-confirmed, asymptomatic, at-risk individuals 
seems warranted; however, proactive identification remains challenging. 
HIGHLIGHTS: iCAA may result from Aß transmission via medical treatments. We 
discuss three clinically relevant disclosure-related ethical questions that 
arise due to the uncertainty surrounding the discovery of iCAA. We focus on 
disclosing to patients with suspected iCAA the recommendation of additional 
diagnostics and proactive identification and notification of asymptomatic 
persons at risk. This analysis supports clinicians in their decision to disclose 
a presumed iCAA diagnosis and when informing patients about additional CAA 
diagnostics. Our findings serve as a reference tool for handling disclosure of 
future discoveries of presumed iatrogenesis (e.g., that of iatrogenic 
Alzheimer's disease).

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70431
PMCID: PMC12271975
PMID: 40677221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest for any of 
the authors (K. Kaushik, M.M. Eijkholt, N. de Graeff, G. Banerjee, D.J. Werring, 
G.M. Terwindt, E.S. van Etten, M.J.H. Wermer). Author disclosures are available 
in the Supporting Information.


20. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70486. doi: 10.1002/alz.70486.

Loss of lysosomal acid lipase contributes to Alzheimer's disease pathology and 
cognitive decline.

Barnett AM(1)(2), McNair EM(1)(2), Dawkins L(1)(2), Zou J(1)(2), Nikolova 
VD(3)(4), Moy SS(3)(4), Sutherland GT(5), Stevens J(5), Colie M(1), Katemboh 
K(1), Kellner H(1), Ho K(1), Damian C(1), DeCastro S(1)(2), Vetreno RP(2)(3), 
Coleman LG Jr(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(2)Bowles Center for Alcohol Studies, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School 
of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(4)Carolina Institute for Developmental Disabilities, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Carrboro, North Carolina, USA.
(5)New South Wales Brain Tissue Resource Centre and Charles Perkins Centre, 
School of Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of 
Sydney, Camperdown, New South Wales, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Underlying drivers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remain unknown, 
though several distinct risk exposures share a common pathological progression.
METHODS: The cellular and molecular consequences of two common midlife AD risk 
factors-heavy alcohol use and obesity-were compared to uncover novel mediators 
that contribute to AD.
RESULTS: Both AD risk exposures reduced levels of neuronal lysosomal acid lipase 
(LAL), which contributed to AD pathology and cognitive decline. LAL was lost 
with age in mice and humans with greater losses in AD and inverse associations 
with amyloid β (Aβ). LAL loss preceded Aβ pathology in AD mice, and neuronal LAL 
knockdown enhanced pathology and cognitive decline. In human AD brain, robust 
reductions in LAL protein were found with indications of a transcriptional 
mechanism. LAL gene therapy reduced pathology and improved cognition and affect 
in vivo.
DISCUSSION: LAL loss is an age-related contributor to AD pathology that can be 
targeted therapeutically.
HIGHLIGHTS: The loss of lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) contributes to Alzheimer's 
disease progression. LAL is lost is normal aging and Alzheimer's disease risk 
exposures. LAL loss is greater in human Alzheimer's brain and predicts the 
extent of pathology. LAL gene therapy blunts Alzheimer' pathology, improving 
cognition and mood with age.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70486
PMCID: PMC12271982
PMID: 40677154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The first and senior author (Alexandra M. 
Barnett and Leon G. Coleman Jr) are inventors on patent PCT/US2024/021194, 
International Publication Number WO 2024/197271 A1 entitled: Targeting lysosomal 
lipid in Alzheimer's disease. The remaining authors (Lamar Dawkins, Jian Zou, 
Elizabeth M. McNair, Viktoriya D. Nikolova, Sheryl S. Moy, Greg T. Sutherland, 
Julia Stevens, Meagan Colie, Kemi Katemboh, Hope Kellner, Katherine Ho, Corina 
Damian, Sagan DeCastro, Ryan P. Vetreno) have no disclosures to report. Author 
disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


21. Proteomics. 2025 Jul;25(14):e70000. doi: 10.1002/pmic.70000. Epub 2025 Jul
17.

Serum Proteome Profiling of Diabetic Patients Treated With DPP4 and SGLT2 
Inhibitors Shows Improved Cognitive and Cardiovascular Functions.

Hakim MA(1), Sanni A(1), Osman ST(2), Hamdy NA(2), Purba WT(1), Bhuiyan MMAA(1), 
Onigbinde S(1), El-Khordagui LK(3), El-Yazbi A(4)(5), Mechref Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, 
Texas, USA.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacy Practice, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Alexandria University, 
Alexandria, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Alexandria 
University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(5)Faculty of Pharmacy and the Research and Innovation Hub, Alamein 
International University, Alamein, Egypt.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a complex metabolic disorder with rising global 
prevalence, leading to major complications such as cognitive decline, 
cardiovascular disease, and systemic inflammation. Although advances in T2D 
pharmacotherapy have shown promise in addressing these complications, the 
underlying protective mechanisms remain unclear, especially as they appear to be 
independent of glycemic control. In this study, we performed a comprehensive 
proteomic analysis using LC-MS/MS to explore the molecular effects of newer 
antidiabetic drugs, specifically dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) and 
sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors (SGLT2is), when combined with 
metformin, the first-line treatment for T2D. Serum samples from 76 individuals 
were analyzed, including 16 healthy subjects, 32 T2D patients on metformin 
monotherapy, and 28 T2D patients receiving combination therapy. We identified 
and quantified 505 low-abundance proteins, followed by statistical analysis and 
ingenuity pathway analysis. Our findings revealed significant changes in key 
biological pathways related to synaptogenesis, insulin-like growth factor 
transport, and neurovascular coupling signaling. These results were further 
validated using parallel reaction monitoring. Notably, pathways associated with 
cognitive function and cardiovascular health were adversely affected in T2D 
patients on metformin monotherapy but showed improvement with combination 
therapy. These results suggest that the combination of DPP4 and SGLT2is offers a 
therapeutic advantage, underscoring the importance of personalized treatment 
strategies in managing T2D complications. Summary: Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a 
chronic metabolic disorder that contributes to the progression of cognitive 
impairment, cardiovascular diseases, and renal dysfunction. Cognitive decline in 
T2D patients can also increase the risk of developing neurological conditions 
like Alzheimer's disease. Recently developed antidiabetic drugs have shown 
promising cardiovascular and renal health effects, such as dipeptidyl peptidase 
4 (DPP4) inhibitors and sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors 
(SGLT2is). However, the precise mechanisms by which these drugs influence 
biological pathways related to cognitive function and central nervous system 
(CNS) development remain unclear. In this study, we explored the impact of these 
newer antidiabetic drugs in combination with metformin, compared to metformin 
monotherapy and healthy controls, by investigating differentially expressed 
proteins and their role in cognitive processes. Our findings reveal that DPP4 
and SGLT2is activate key biological pathways-such as synaptogenesis, 
insulin-like growth factor regulation, and neurovascular coupling-that are 
either suppressed or not enriched in the metformin-only group. These pathways 
are critical for maintaining and regulating CNS function and cognitive health.

© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/pmic.70000
PMID: 40677108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Brain. 2025 Jul 8:awaf251. doi: 10.1093/brain/awaf251. Online ahead of print.

CSF proteomic profiles related to cognitive decline in MCI A+ depend on tau 
levels.

Vromen EM(1)(2), de Leeuw DM(1)(2), van Harten AC(1)(2), Teunissen CE(2)(3), van 
der Flier WM(1)(2), Visser PJ(1)(2)(4)(5), Tijms BM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, 1081HZ Amsterdam, North-Holland, The Netherlands.
(2)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, 1081HZ Amsterdam, North-Holland, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Clinical Chemistry, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, 1081HZ Amsterdam, 
North-Holland, the Netherlands.
(4)Alzheimer Centrum Limburg, Department of Psychiatry, Maastricht University, 
6200 MD Maastricht, Limburg, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of 
Neurogeriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.

Individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and an abnormal amyloid 
biomarker (A+) are at considerable increased risk to develop dementia. Still, 
these individuals vary greatly in rates of cognitive decline, and the mechanisms 
underlying this heterogeneity remain largely unclear. One factor related to 
increased risk of progression to dementia is having an abnormal tau status (T+), 
but this still explains only part of the variance. Furthermore, previous work 
has indicated that MCI A+ individuals with T- or T+ are characterized by 
distinct molecular processes as reflected by distinct cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
proteomic profiles. As such, it could be hypothesized that differences in rates 
of cognitive decline in A+ MCI with abnormal or normal tau status may be 
explained by distinct underlying mechanisms. We studied this question using an 
untargeted CSF proteomic approach in individuals with MCI and abnormal amyloid. 
We measured untargeted TMT mass spectrometry proteomics in CSF of 80 A+ MCI 
individuals from the Amsterdam Dementia Cohort (age 66±7.9 years, 52 [65%] T+). 
For each protein we tested if CSF levels were related to time to progression to 
dementia using Cox survival models; and with decline on the MMSE with linear 
mixed models, correcting for age, sex, and education. We validated our results 
in the independent Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) that 
employed the orthogonal CSF Soma logic protein measures in 245 CSF A+ MCI 
individuals (age 73±7.2 years, 135 [55%] T+). In total, we found 664 (29%) 
proteins to be related to cognitive decline in A+T+ and 718 (31%) proteins in 
A+T-. In A+T+ higher levels of 393 proteins that were associated with synaptic 
plasticity processes, and lower levels of 271 proteins associated with the 
immune function processes predicted steeper decline on the MMSE and faster 
progression to dementia. In A+T-, higher levels of 306 proteins that were 
related to blood-brain barrier impairment and lower levels of 412 proteins 
associated with synaptic plasticity processes predicted steeper decline. 67% of 
pathways associated with decline in A+T+ and 58% in A+T- were replicated in 
ADNI. In conclusion, cognitive decline in A+ MCI individuals with and without 
tau may involve distinct underlying pathophysiology. These findings suggest that 
treatments aiming to delay cognitive decline may need tailoring according to the 
underlying mechanism of these patient groups, and that amyloid and tau levels 
could aid in stratification of selecting patients.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awaf251
PMID: 40676952


23. Am J Alzheimers Dis Other Demen. 2025 Jan-Dec;40:15333175251361265. doi: 
10.1177/15333175251361265. Epub 2025 Jul 17.

Amytrapper Catheter: A Prototype Extracorporeal Device That Traps Blood 
Amyloid-β in a Rat Model of Alzheimer's Disease.

Chhipa RR(1), Kurien BT(2)(3), Scofield RH(2)(3)(4), Wolf RF(3), Huang H(1), 
Sundaram P(1).

Author information:
(1)Recombinant Technologies LLC, Cheshire, CT, USA.
(2)Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(3)Oklahoma City VA Health Care System, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(4)University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) presents a pressing global health challenge, with 
amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation in the brain being a hallmark feature. While 
monoclonal antibodies targeting Aβ have shown cognitive benefits, safety 
concerns remain. Here, we introduce the Amytrapper catheter, a novel 
extracorporeal device developed by Recombinant Technologies to trap circulating 
Aβ using a retro-inverso peptide conjugated to polyethylene glycol. Through in 
vivo experiments using a rat model of AD, we demonstrate significant reductions 
in blood Aβ levels and behavioral improvements following Amytrapper catheter 
treatment. This innovative approach holds promise as a disease-modifying therapy 
for AD, offering a complementary strategy to existing treatments and advocating 
for further clinical development.

DOI: 10.1177/15333175251361265
PMCID: PMC12276522
PMID: 40676911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestThe author(s) 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


24. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):104-111. doi: 10.1177/13872877251359682.
Epub  2025 Jul 17.

Trends of antipsychotic prescribing for people with dementia in Spain.

Sánchez-Soblechero A(1)(2), Gil M(3), Rojo JM(4), Muñiz R(5), Hoyos-Alonso 
MC(6), Olazarán J(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department, University Hospital Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Memory Disorders Clinic - HM Hospitals, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Spanish Agency of Medicines and Medical Devices, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Superior Council of Scientific Research, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Maria Wolff Foundation, Madrid, Spain.
(6)Pedro Laín Entralgo Health Care Center, Madrid, Spain.

BackgroundAntipsychotic medications are frequently prescribed in people with 
dementia (PwD), despite concern regarding risk-benefit balance.ObjectiveTo 
describe the evolution of antipsychotic prescribing for PwD in Spain, with 
special interest in the effect of administration regulatory warnings (2004 and 
2008).MethodsLongitudinal retrospective study using the national Spanish 
Database for Pharmacoepidemiological Research in Primary Care (BIFAP). We 
included patients with incident dementia during the study period (January 1, 
2002 to December 31, 2018) and excluded those with major psychiatric conditions, 
mental retardation, or previous use of antipsychotics. Paper-based and 
electronic prescriptions of antipsychotics were collected. Annual prevalence of 
prescribing was obtained for single medications and antipsychotic group. All 
calculations were conducted for the total sample and stratified by sex. The 
results were compared with those of other countries.ResultsAntipsychotic 
prescribing doubled during the study period, raising from 12.6% (2002) to 23.8% 
(2018). A mild decrease of prescribing was observed from 2004 to 2007, followed 
by steady increase from 2007 on. This increase was due to atypical antipsychotic 
use, specifically quetiapine, which grew from 0.2% (2002) to 16.4% (2018) and 
was more frequently utilized in men. Spain prevalence of antipsychotics doubled 
the UK's.ConclusionsBetter designed warnings appear as a key means to 
rationalize use of antipsychotics in Spain and other countries, ideally as part 
of national dementia strategies. Dearly needed non-pharmacological approaches 
for comprehensive treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms could be generalized as 
a first step through nursing home and day care networks. Quetiapine requires the 
agencies' urgent attention.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251359682
PMID: 40676897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


25. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):75-85. doi: 10.1177/13872877251359648. Epub
 2025 Jul 17.

Computational screening of repurposed drugs targeting lactoferrin for 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Alrouji M(1), Alshammari MS(2), Alhumaydhi F(3), Shahwan M(4)(5), Sharaf SE(6), 
Alghamdi SS(7), Atiya A(8), Shamsi A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratories, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
Shaqra University, Shaqra, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Shaqra University, Shaqra, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Medical Laboratories, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
Qassim University, Buraydah, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, 
Ajman University, Ajman, United Arab Emirates.
(5)Center of Medical and Bio-Allied Health Sciences Research (CMBHSR), Ajman 
University, Ajman, United Arab Emirates.
(6)Pharmaceutical Sciences Department, College of Pharmacy, Umm Al-Qura 
University, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Applied College, General Courses Department, King Khalid University, Muhayil 
Asir, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
King Khalid University (KKU), Muhayil, Asir, Saudi Arabia.

BackgroundLactoferrin (LTF), a conserved glycoprotein, plays a pivotal role in 
iron homeostasis, oxidative stress management, and anti-inflammatory responses. 
Its high iron-binding affinity and protective actions make it a promising 
therapeutic target for neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's and 
Parkinson's, characterized by oxidative damage and disrupted metal 
homeostasis.ObjectiveThis study aimed to identify FDA-approved drugs that can be 
repurposed to modulate LTFs activity, providing a cost-effective therapeutic 
strategy for neurodegenerative diseases.MethodsWe employed molecular docking to 
screen a library of ∼3500 FDA-approved drugs for binding affinity to LTF. Drug 
profiling and PASS analysis were used to predict biological activities. 
Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations evaluated the stability of LTF-drug 
complexes, with key parameters such as RMSD, RMSF, radius of gyration, 
solvent-accessible surface area, and hydrogen bonding assessed. Principal 
component analysis and free energy landscape mapping further explored 
protein-ligand interactions and conformational stability.ResultsTen drugs with 
high binding affinities were identified, among which Mosapramine and 
Quinupramine emerged as promising candidates based on their drug profiling and 
PASS activities. These drugs demonstrated stable binding to LTFs iron-binding 
pocket, as confirmed by MD simulations. Drug profiling indicated neuroprotective 
properties, including anti-inflammatory and cognitive-enhancing activities. PCA 
and free energy analyses revealed conformational stability of the LTF-drug 
complexes.ConclusionsThis study highlights Mosapramine and Quinupramine as 
potential modulators of LTF for neurodegenerative diseases. The findings 
underscore the efficacy of computational screening in repurposing drugs, paving 
the way for further experimental validation and therapeutic development.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251359648
PMID: 40676874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article. Data Availability StatementThe 
data supporting the findings of this study are available within the article.


26. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;106(4):1452-1462. doi: 10.1177/13872877251352202. 
Epub 2025 Jul 17.

Baseline and longitudinal changes in cortical thickness and hippocampal volume 
predict cognitive decline.

Chen G(1)(2), McKay NS(1)(2), Gordon BA(1)(2)(3), Joseph-Mathurin N(1)(2), Liu 
J(4), Schindler SE(5), Hassenstab J(5), Doering S(1)(2), Aschenbrenner AJ(2)(5), 
Wang Q(1)(2), LaMontagne PJ(1)(2), Keefe SJ(1)(2), Massoumzadeh P(1)(2), 
Cruchaga C(6), Xiong C(7), Morris JC(1)(2)(3), Benzinger TL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Washington University in St Louis School 
of Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.
(2)Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Washington University in St Louis 
School of Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.
(3)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University in St Louis 
School of Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.
(4)Department of Surgery, Washington University in St Louis School of Medicine, 
St Louis, MO, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St Louis School of 
Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in St Louis School of 
Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.
(7)Divison of Biostatistics, Washington University in St Louis School of 
Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.

BackgroundAs we transition to disease-modifying treatment for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), identifying individuals most at risk for future cognitive decline 
is crucial. Amyloid PET, cerebrospinal fluid and more recently blood-based 
biomarkers can identify the first stage of AD. However, changes detectable by 
PiB-PET may precede the onset of the dementia by 20-30 years. MRI is a widely 
available tool for detecting longitudinal changes in brain structure, such as 
cortical thickness and hippocampal volume and may provide additional insight 
into which patients are at greatest risk to develop cognitive 
decline.ObjectiveTo determine how well the hippocampal volume and cortical 
thickness, without specific AD biomarkers, can predict cognitive 
decline.MethodsMRI data from 344 participants (cognitively unimpaired or mild 
cognitive impairment, age 50-86) were used to evaluate if changes in cortical 
thickness and hippocampal volume predict cognitive decline, measured by a global 
cognitive composite score. A random coefficient model was employed to calculate 
longitudinal changes in cortical thickness and hippocampal volume and assess 
their ability to predict cognitive decline.ResultsBaseline cortical thickness as 
well as hippocampal volume predicted cognitive decline, regardless of baseline 
cognitive status. In individuals unimpaired at baseline, decreases in cortical 
thickness and hippocampal volume independently predicted cognitive decline. For 
participants with baseline mild impairment, decreases in hippocampal volume 
predicted further cognitive decline.ConclusionsThese findings indicate that MRI 
could serve as an effective tool for identifying individuals at elevated risk of 
cognitive decline, a growing public health concern as global populations 
continue to age.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251352202
PMID: 40676867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Dr Benzinger has 
investigator-initiated research funding from the NIH, the Alzheimer's 
Association, the Barnes–Jewish Hospital Foundation, Siemens Healthineers and 
Avid Radiopharmaceuticals (a wholly owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly). Dr Benzinger 
is a site investigator in clinical trials sponsored by Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly, Biogen, Eisai, Jansen, and Roche. Dr Benzinger 
performs paid and unpaid consulting for Biogen, Eli Lilly, Eisai, and Siemens. 
Dr Schindler has served on scientific advisory boards for Eisai. Data 
availability statementThe imaging and cognition data are publicly available from 
the OASIS website (www.oasis-brains.org).


27. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;107(1):15-38. doi: 10.1177/13872877251359630. Epub
 2025 Jul 17.

Effects of resistance exercise on cognitive function, neurotrophic factors, 
brain structure, and brain function in older adults: A narrative review.

Jiang W(1), Wang X(1), Mao L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Athletic Performance, Shanghai University of Sport, Shanghai, 
China.

Cognitive decline is age-specific or related to dementia and Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), which poses great concern to older adults. Exercise contributes to 
cognitive gains, with aerobic exercise (AE) being the most commonly studied 
type. However, other types, such as resistance exercise (RE), have received less 
attention in exercise-cognition research. This narrative review aims to 
synthesize evidence addressing the effects of RE, including the influence of its 
various parameters on cognitive function in older adults. It also examines the 
adaptations of neurotrophic factors, brain structure, and brain function in 
response to RE and explores the relationship between these adaptive responses 
and cognitive function. A comprehensive search of PubMed databases was conducted 
up to Jan 2025, identifying 41 randomized controlled trials for inclusion. RE 
may effectively improve executive function, memory function, and global 
cognition in older adults with and without cognitive impairment. However, 
optimal exercise parameters, such as intensity, frequency, and length, remain to 
be established. Evidence suggests that RE may elevate peripheral insulin-like 
growth factor 1 levels, increase gray matter thickness, mitigate hippocampal 
atrophy, and enhance brain activation, all of which appear to contribute to 
cognitive improvements. Collectively, these studies advance our understanding of 
the potential role of RE in promoting cognitive and brain health during aging.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251359630
PMID: 40676864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


28. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025 Jul 16. doi: 10.2174/0115672050381989250626071304. 
Online ahead of print.

Mapping the Connection Between Circadian Rhythms, Metabolism, and 
Neurodegeneration: Exploring Therapeutic Strategies.

Bhaskar R(1)(2), Narayanan KB(1)(2), Singh KK(3), Han SS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Engineering, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan 38541, South 
Korea.
(2)Research Institute of Cell Culture, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan 38541, 
South Korea.
(3)Symbiosis Centre for Information Technology (SCIT), Symbiosis International 
(Deemed University), Hinjawadi, Pune, Maharashtra 411057 India.

Circadian rhythms are crucial for essential physiological functions such as 
metabolism, sleep-wake cycles, hormone balance, and cognitive abilities, which 
are regulated by the central Suprachiasmatic Nucleus (SCN) and peripheral 
clocks. Disruptions to circadian rhythms, which may be caused by aging, 
lifestyle factors, and environmental influences, are linked to metabolic 
disorders and Neurodegenerative Diseases (NDs). This review examines the 
reciprocal relationship between circadian control and metabolism, highlighting 
the molecular processes that maintain circadian rhythms and how these processes 
change with age. Aging diminishes SCN efficiency and disrupts peripheral clock 
alignment, leading to impaired physiological functions, increased oxidative 
stress, and neuroinflammation, all of which contribute to the progression of NDs 
such as Alzheimer's (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), 
etc. Emerging therapeutic strategies aim to restore circadian function through 
interventions, including bright light therapy, melatonin supplementation, and 
pharmacological agents targeting clock gene regulators and neuropeptides. 
Furthermore, lifestyle modifications, such as Structured Physical Activity (SPA) 
and Time-Restricted Feeding (TRF), can enhance circadian health by synchronizing 
metabolic and hormonal rhythms. Future directions include chrono-pharmacology, 
gene editing, and Artificial Intelligence (AI)-driven personalized medicine, all 
of which emphasize the development of tailored circadian therapies. Advancing 
circadian research holds the potential to facilitate better health outcomes and 
improve quality of life, while also addressing the growing concerns of the aging 
population and NDs.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050381989250626071304
PMID: 40676783


29. Biol Sex Differ. 2025 Jul 17;16(1):54. doi: 10.1186/s13293-025-00737-0.

Sex-specific changes in energy demand during the preplaque stage in a transgenic 
Alzheimer's mouse model.

Sun R(1)(2), Zimbalski LK(1), Schreyer S(1), Baidoe-Ansah D(3)(4), Harutyunyan 
A(1)(2), Heuser A(5), Lippert RN(3)(4)(6), Spranger J(1), Mai K(1)(2)(6)(7)(8), 
Brachs S(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, European Reference Network on 
Rare Endocrine Diseases (ENDO-ERN), Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Corporate member of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany.
(2)German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partner site Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurocircuit Development and Function, German Institute of 
Human Nutrition Potsdam-Rehbruecke (DIfE), Nuthetal, Germany.
(4)NeuroCure Cluster of Excellence, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
corporate member of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany.
(5)Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine in the Helmholtz Association 
(MDC), Berlin, Germany.
(6)German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD e.V.), Neuherberg, Germany.
(7)Department of Human Nutrition, German Institute of Human Nutrition 
Potsdam-Rehbruecke (DIfE), Nuthetal, Germany.
(8)NutriAct-Competence Cluster Nutrition Research Berlin-Potsdam, Nuthetal, 
Germany.
(9)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, European Reference Network on 
Rare Endocrine Diseases (ENDO-ERN), Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Corporate member of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany. sebastian.brachs@charite.de.
(10)German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partner site Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany. sebastian.brachs@charite.de.
(11)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Max Rubner Center for 
Cardiovascular Metabolic Renal Research (MRC), Charité - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Hessische Straße 3-4, 10115, Berlin, Germany. 
sebastian.brachs@charite.de.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive deficits and brain glucose hypometabolism, lipid 
peroxidation and mitochondrial dysfunction are early pathological events in 
murine models and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Data from our previous 
research indicate that transgenic mice of the APP23 line, a murine AD model, 
exhibited higher energy expenditure and mitochondrial dysregulation in the liver 
as early as 3 months of age, which is considered the preplaque stage. Since 
women have a higher risk and mortality rate for AD, with potential sex-specific 
confounders as longevity, biological, genetic, and social factors also needing 
to be considered, sex differences in energy metabolism in AD remain 
insufficiently investigated.
METHODS: Here, we investigated sex-specific differences in mitochondrial 
respiration and metabolic profiles of 3-4-month-old, preplaque APP23 transgenic 
mice, in which we did not detect inflammatory signals and pathological 
amyloid-beta (Aß) plaques in brain or liver. Their mitochondrial respiration was 
assessed measuring oxygen consumption rates in isolated primary hepatocytes, 
stromal vascular cells (SVCs) and re-differentiated adipocytes. Furthermore, we 
analyzed energy balance, including food intake, locomotor activity, energy 
expenditure and fecal calorie loss.
RESULTS: We observed an upregulation of hepatic mitochondrial respiration in 
preplaque APP23 females. Female-derived SVCs and differentiated adipocytes 
improved mitochondrial flexibility with palmitate loading in vitro, which was in 
line with decreased plasma triglycerides in preplaque APP23 females in vivo. 
However, no differences in mitochondrial respiration were detected in 
hepatocytes and re-differentiated adipocytes derived from male APP23 mice. 
Furthermore, we corroborated an increased mortality during the preplaque stage, 
particularly in females, which exhibited reduced hyperactivity and caloric 
intake before death compared to survivors.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that preplaque APP23 female mice have 
disequilibrated mitochondrial oxidation in hepatocytes and adipocytes as well as 
higher energy expenditure due to increased activity before AD manifestation. In 
contrast, male APP23 mice did not exhibit such metabolic changes. Constant 
excessive energy loss and limited calorie supply potentially contribute to the 
higher risk of mortality, especially in APP23 females during young adulthood. 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects men and women differently, with women at higher 
risk and mortality. This study explored sex differences in energy metabolism 
using APP23 transgenic mice, a model of AD, at young age (3-4 months) - before 
pathological amyloid-beta (Aß) plaques develop in the brain and liver. Female 
APP23 mice showed increased mitochondrial activity in liver and fat cells, 
higher energy expenditure, and more movement while eating less. They also 
excreted more energy in their feces. Notably, female APP23 mice had a lower 
survival rate than males. Before death, they became less active and ate even 
less, suggesting an inability to maintain energy balance. These findings 
indicate that female APP23 mice experience excessive energy loss, which may 
contribute to early mortality. Understanding these sex-specific metabolic 
differences could provide new insights into AD progression and highlight the 
need for targeted treatments.

[Image: see text]

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13293-025-00737-0
PMCID: PMC12273039
PMID: 40676711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: Animal 
experiments were performed in accordance with Guidance on the operation of the 
Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 and associated guidelines, EU Directive 
2010/63 and complied with institutional ethical and ARRIVE guidelines and 
approved by Landesamt für Gesundheit und Soziales Berlin (T0180/16) and 
Forschungseinrichtung für Experimentelle Medizin Charité (T-CH19/21). 
Additionally, previously stored samples from an approved experiment (G0074/16) 
were analyzed. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


30. Neurol Res Pract. 2025 Jul 17;7(1):48. doi: 10.1186/s42466-025-00414-y.

Management of disease-modifying therapies in multiple sclerosis and comorbid 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Konen FF(1), Witte T(2), Ernst D(2), Hagin D(3), Jendretzky KF(1), Möhn N(1), 
Nay S(1), Grote-Levi L(1), Sühs KW(1), Klotz L(4), Pfeuffer S(5), Pul R(6), 
Kleinschnitz C(6), Pawlitzki M(7), Meuth SG(7), Skripuletz T(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hannover Medical School, Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 
30625, Hannover, Germany.
(2)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Hannover Medical School, 
30625, Hannover, Germany.
(3)Allergy and Clinical Immunology Unit, Department of Medicine, Tel-Aviv 
Sourasky Medical Center and Sackler Faculty of Medicine, University of Tel Aviv, 
6 Weizmann St, Tel-Aviv, 6423906, Israel.
(4)Department of Neurology with Institute of Translational Neurology, University 
Hospital Muenster, 48149, Muenster, Germany.
(5)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Giessen and Marburg, 
Justus-Liebig-University Giessen, 35392, Giessen, Germany.
(6)Department of Neurology, Center for Translational Neuro- and Behavioral 
Sciences, University Medicine Essen, University Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany.
(7)Department of Neurology, Medical Faculty, Heinrich Heine University 
Dusseldorf, 40225, Dusseldorf, Germany.
(8)Department of Neurology, Hannover Medical School, Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 
30625, Hannover, Germany. skripuletz.thomas@mh-hannover.de.

BACKGROUND: Comorbid autoimmune disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 
are common in people with multiple sclerosis (MS). Both conditions share 
pathogenic similarities, enabling potential overlap in treatments. While 
numerous disease-modifying therapies (DMT) are approved for MS and new options 
are under clinical trial, their effectiveness in RA varies.
MAIN BODY: A PubMed literature review was conducted to evaluate the effects of 
approved and currently investigated MS-DMT on MS and RA and vice versa. Certain 
MS-DMT showed beneficial effects for RA, such as teriflunomide, anti-CD20 
therapies, and cladribine, while others demonstrated no significant impact 
(type-I interferons, Bruton´s tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitors) or lacked trials 
(sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulators, glatiramer acetate). In contrast, 
BTK inhibitors were shown to be effective for inactive secondary progressive 
forms of MS, whereas secukinumab showed limited effects in relapsing MS. 
Concerning DMT for RA in MS, no significant benefit was observed for abatacept, 
and there are no trials for Janus kinase inhibitors, or interleukin-(IL)-6 
receptor inhibitors (tocilizumab, sarilumab). Adverse events, including RA 
exacerbation, were reported for some MS-DMT like dimethyl fumarate, alemtuzumab, 
and natalizumab. Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) inhibitors increased disease 
activity in MS patients.
CONCLUSION: Among approved DMT for MS and RA, teriflunomide and anti-CD20 
therapies are the most suitable options for moderately or highly active MS with 
comorbid RA. Cladribine may also be considered, while TNFα inhibitors are 
contraindicated.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s42466-025-00414-y
PMCID: PMC12273305
PMID: 40676697

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The Authors declare that there is no conflict of interest. Outside 
the submitted work, the Authors decelare the following. FFK received travel 
grants from Merck and Novartis and is a Hannover Medical School- and German 
Research Foundation (DFG)–funded fellow as part of the Clinician Scientist 
Program (PRACTIS) at Hannover Medical School. TW received honoraria as speaker 
from Roche and Novartis. DE received honoraria for lecturing and research 
support from Novartis and Abbvie.DH has no conflicting interests to report. NM 
received travel grants and honoraria for lecturing from Biogen, Merck, and 
Novartis and is a Hannover Medical School- and German Research Foundation 
(DFG)–funded fellow as part of the Clinician Scientist Program (PRACTIS) at 
Hannover Medical School. KFJ received research support from Else Kröner 
Fresenius Foundation and travel compensation and congress fee from Merck and 
Novartis. SN has received travel grants by Merck. LGL received a German Research 
Foundation (DFG)–funded fellowship as part of the Clinician Scientist Program 
(Young Academy, Project number 413617135) at Hannover Medical School. KWS 
reports honoraria for lectures or travel reimbursements for attending meetings 
from Biogen, Merck, Bavarian Nordic and Bristol-Myers Squibb as well as research 
support from Bristol-Myers Squibb. LK reports grants from the German Research 
Foundation, the IZKF Münster, Biogen, Novartis and Merck Serono. She serves on 
advisory boards and speakers’ panels of Alexion, Argenx, Bayer, Biogen, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Grifols, Hexal, Horizon, Janssen, Merck Serono, Novartis, 
Roche, Sandoz, Sanofi, Santhera, Teva and Viatris. SP received honoraria for 
lecturing and compensation for serving on advisory boards from Sanofi, Merck, 
Biogen, Novartis, Roche, Hexal, and Alexion. He received travel reimbursement 
from Sanofi, Merck, Novartis, Roche, and Biogen. His research is financially 
supported by Merck, Novartis, and Biogen. RP received honoraria for lecturing 
and travel expenses from Biogen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Horizon, Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals, Merck Serono, Novartis, Roche, and Sanofi-Aventis. His research 
is funded by Merck Serono and Novartis. MP received honoraria for lecturing and 
travel expenses for attending meetings from Alexion, ArgenX, Bayer Health Care, 
Biogen, Hexal, Merck Serono, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Takeda and Teva. 
His research is funded by ArgenX, Biogen, Demecan, Hexal, Horizon, Merck Serono, 
Novartis, Roche, Viatris, Takeda and Teva. His research is funded by the the 
German Alzheimer Foundation and the Braun Foundation. CK received honoraria for 
lecturing and travel expenses for attending meetings from Alexion, Almirall, 
Astra Zenica, Bayer, Biogen, Biontech, Boehringer Ingelheim Bristol 
Myers-Squibb, C.T.I., Daiichi Sankyo, Docspert, Merck Serono, Mylan/Viatris, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Stada, Teva, Janssen-Cilag, Horizon 
Therapeutics, Medscape LLC, Baumgart Consultants, StreamedUp!, Hexal/Sandoz, 
Agentur Süss. SGM received honoraria for lecturing and travel expenses for 
attending meetings from Almirall, Amicus Therapeutics Germany, Bayer Health 
Care, Biogen, Celgene, Diamed, Genzyme, MedDay Pharmaceuticals, Merck Serono, 
Novartis, Novo Nordisk, ONO Pharma, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Chugai Pharma, 
QuintilesIMS, and Teva. His research is funded by the German Ministry for 
Education and Research (BMBF), Bundesinstitut für Risikobewertung (BfR), 
Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG), Else Kröner Fresenius Foundation, 
Gemeinsamer Bundesausschuss (G-BA), German Academic Exchange Service, Hertie 
Foundation, Interdisciplinary Center for Clinical Studies (IZKF) Muenster, 
German Foundation Neurology and by Alexion, Almirall, Amicus Therapeutics 
Germany, Biogen, Diamed, Fresenius Medical Care, Genzyme, HERZ Burgdorf, Merck 
Serono, Novartis, ONO Pharma, Roche, and Teva. TS reports research support from 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, CSL Behring, Merck, Novartis, Siemens; honoraria for 
lectures and travel expenses for attending meetings from Alexion, Alnylam 
Pharmaceuticals, argenx, Bayer Vital, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, 
Centogene, CSL Behring, Euroimmun, Grifols, Hexal AG, Horizon, Janssen-Cilag, 
Merck Serono, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi, Siemens, Swedish Orphan 
Biovitrum, Teva, Viatris; consultant fees from Alexion, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, 
Biogen, Centogene, CSL Behring, Grifols, Hexal AG, Janssen-Cilag, Merck Serono, 
Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, Viatris.


31. J Neuroinflammation. 2025 Jul 17;22(1):187. doi: 10.1186/s12974-025-03506-3.

Modulation of neuronal α1-adrenergic receptor reduces tauopathy and 
neuroinflammation by inhibiting the STING/NF-κB/NLRP3 signaling pathway in 
Alzheimer's disease mice.

Li B(#)(1), Wang L(#)(1)(2), Xiao Y(1), Tang Z(1), Wang Y(3), Sun T(2), Qi 
X(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Endemic and Ethnic Diseases, Ministry of Education and Key 
Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology of Guizhou Province, Key Laboratory of 
Molecular Biology of Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, 561113, China.
(2)School of Nursing, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, 561113, China.
(3)The Department of Imaging, Affiliated Hospital of Guizhou Medical University, 
Guiyang, 550001, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Endemic and Ethnic Diseases, Ministry of Education and Key 
Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology of Guizhou Province, Key Laboratory of 
Molecular Biology of Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, 561113, China. 
xiaolan76@163.com.
(5)Collaborative Innovation Center for Prevention and Control of Endemic and 
Ethnic Regional Diseases Constructed By the Province and Ministry, Guiyang, 
561113, China. xiaolan76@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Neuroinflammation is closely associated with the pathological 
progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The α1-adrenergic receptor (ADRA1), a G 
protein-coupled receptor, has been identified as a critical therapeutic target 
in inflammatory disorders. However, its precise mechanistic role in AD 
pathogenesis remains unclear.
METHODS: To investigate ADRA1's role in AD, we employed 3xTg-AD and wild-type 
(WT) mice, modulating neuronal ADRA1 expression via intracerebroventricular 
delivery of adeno-associated viruses. Cognitive function, tau pathology, 
neuronal morphology, and activation of the STING/NF-κB/NLRP3 signaling pathway 
were evaluated using behavioral tests, Western blot, Golgi-Cox staining, 
immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence. In vitro AD models were 
established using Aβ42 oligomer-stimulated SH-SY5Y cells and primary murine 
neurons, along with SH-SY5Y cells transfected with full-length human tau 
(SH-SY5Y/htau). Pharmacological antagonists, inhibitors, lentiviral 
transduction, co-immunoprecipitation, and calcium flux assays were utilized to 
dissect ADRA1-mediated molecular mechanisms in tauopathy and neuroinflammation.
RESULTS: Hippocampal ADRA1 expression was significantly elevated in 10-month-old 
3xTg-AD mice. Neuronal ADRA1 knockdown suppressed STING/NF-κB/NLRP3 pathway 
activation, ameliorated tauopathy and neuroinflammation, restored neuronal 
structure/function, and improved cognitive deficits in 3xTg-AD mice. Conversely, 
ADRA1 overexpression in C57/BL6 mice induced tauopathy, neuroinflammation, and 
cognitive impairment. Mechanistically, ADRA1 interacts with CXCR4 to form 
heterodimers, triggering cytoplasmic Ca2⁺ overload and subsequent 
STING/NF-κB/NLRP3 pathway activation.
CONCLUSIONS: ADRA1 critically mediates tauopathy and neuroinflammation through 
STING/NF-κB/NLRP3 signaling. These results identify ADRA1 as a promising 
therapeutic target for AD prevention and treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-025-03506-3
PMCID: PMC12273325
PMID: 40676669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal experiments received approval from the Institutional 
Animal Care and Use Committee of Guizhou Medical University (approval 
No.2402660). The experiments were conducted in accordance with ARRIVE 2.0 
guidelines, as approved by the Animal Protection and Use Committee of Guizhou 
Medical University. Consent for publication: All the authors agree with the 
submission of this manuscript. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


32. Genome Biol. 2025 Jul 17;26(1):210. doi: 10.1186/s13059-025-03564-z.

Multi-ancestry genome-wide meta-analysis of 56,241 individuals identifies known 
and novel cross-population and ancestry-specific associations as novel risk loci 
for Alzheimer's disease.

Rajabli F(#)(1)(2), Benchek P(#)(3), Tosto G(#)(4)(5), Kushch N(2), Sha J(6), 
Bazemore K(6), Zhu C(7), Lee WP(8), Haut J(6), Hamilton-Nelson KL(2), Wheeler 
NR(3)(9), Zhao Y(8), Farrell JJ(7), Grunin MA(3), Leung YY(8), Kuksa PP(8), Li 
D(7), da Fonseca EL(2), Mez JB(10), Palmer EL(3), Pillai J(11), Sherva RM(7), 
Song YE(3)(9), Zhang X(7)(12), Ikeuchi T(13), Iqbal T(6), Pathak O(8), 
Valladares O(8), Reyes-Dumeyer D(4)(5), Kuzma AB(8), Abner E(14), Adams LD(1), 
Adams PM(15), Aguirre A(16), Albert MS(17), Albin RL(18)(19)(20), Allen M(21), 
Alvarez L(22), Apostolova LG(23)(24), Arnold SE(25), Asthana S(26)(27)(28), 
Atwood CS(26)(27)(28), Auerbach S(10), Ayres G(16), Baldwin CT(7), Barber 
RC(22), Barnes LL(29)(30)(31), Barral S(4)(5)(32), Beach TG(33), Becker JT(34), 
Beecham GW(2), Beekly D(35), Benitez BA(36), Bennett D(29)(31), Bertelson J(37), 
Bird TD(38)(39), Blacker D(40)(41), Boeve BF(42), Bowen JD(43), Boxer A(44), 
Brewer J(45), Burke JR(46), Burns JM(47), Buxbaum JD(48)(49)(50), Cairns NJ(51), 
Cantwell LB(8), Cao C(52), Carlson CS(53), Carlsson CM(27)(28), Carney RM(54), 
Carrasquillo MM(21), Chasse S(55), Chesselet MF(56), Chin NA(26)(27), Chui 
HC(57), Chung J(7), Craft S(58), Crane PK(59), Cribbs DH(60), Crocco EA(61), 
Cruchaga C(62)(63), Cuccaro ML(1)(2), Cullum M(15), Darby E(64), Davis B(65), De 
Jager PL(66), DeCarli C(67), DeToledo J(68), Dick M(69), Dickson DW(21), 
Dombroski BA(8), Doody RS(64), Duara R(70), Ertekin-Taner N(21)(71), Evans 
DA(72), Faber KM(73), Fairchild TJ(74), Fallon KB(75), Fardo DW(76), Farlow 
MR(77), Fernandez-Hernandez V(36), Ferris S(78), Friedland RP(79), Foroud 
TM(73), Frosch MP(80), Fulton-Howard B(81), Galasko DR(45), Gamboa A(82)(83), 
Gearing M(84)(85), Geschwind DH(56), Ghetti B(86), Gilbert JR(1)(2), Go RCP(75), 
Goate AM(48), Grabowski TJ(39)(87), Graff-Radford NR(21)(71), Green RC(88), 
Growdon JH(89), Hakonarson H(90)(91), Hall J(22), Hamilton RL(92), Harari O(63), 
Hardy J(93)(94), Harrell LE(95), Head E(96), Henderson VW(97)(98), Hernandez 
M(68), Hohman T(99)(100), Honig LS(4), Huebinger RM(101), Huentelman MJ(102), 
Hulette CM(103), Hyman BT(89), Hynan LS(15)(104)(105), Ibanez L(106)(107), 
Jarvik GP(108)(109), Jayadev S(39), Jin LW(110), Johnson K(68), Johnson L(82), 
Kamboh MI(111)(112)(113), Karydas AM(44), Katz MJ(114), Kauwe JS(115)(116), Kaye 
JA(117)(118), Keene CD(119), Khaleeq A(64), Kikuchi M(13), Kim R(96), Knebl 
J(82), Kowall NW(10)(120), Kramer JH(121), Kukull WA(122), LaFerla FM(123), Lah 
JJ(124), Larson EB(125), Lerner A(3), Leverenz JB(11), Levey AI(124), Lieberman 
AP(126), Lipton RB(114), Logue M(7)(127)(128), Lopez OL(34), Lunetta KL(12), 
Lyketsos CG(129), Mains D(82)(83), Margaret FE(130)(131), Marson DC(95), Martin 
ER(1)(2), Martiniuk F(132), Mash DC(133), Masliah E(45)(134), Massman P(64), 
Masurkar A(78), McCormick WC(59), McCurry SM(135), McDavid AN(53), McDonough 
S(136), McKee AC(10)(137), Mesulam M(130)(131), Miller BL(138), Miller CA(139), 
Miller JW(110), Montine TJ(140), Monuki ES(141), Morris JC(51)(107)(142)(143), 
Mukherjee S(59), Myers AJ(61), Nguyen T(104), Obisesan T(144), O'Bryant S(145), 
Olichney JM(146), Ory M(147), Palmer R(148), Parisi JE(149), Paulson HL(18)(20), 
Pavlik V(64), Paydarfar D(16), Perez V(68), Peskind E(150), Petersen RC(42), 
Petrovitch H(151), Pierce A(60), Polk M(148), Poon WW(69), Potter H(152), Qu 
L(8), Quiceno M(153)(154), Quinn JF(117)(118), Raj A(52), Raskind M(150), Reiman 
EM(102)(155)(156)(157), Reisberg B(78)(158), Reisch JS(65), Ringman JM(159), 
Roberson ED(95), Rodriguear M(64), Rogaeva E(160), Rosen HJ(44), Rosenberg 
RN(104), Royall DR(161), Sabbagh M(162), Sadovnick AD(163), Sager MA(27), Sano 
M(50), Saykin AJ(73)(164), Schneider JA(29)(31)(165), Schneider LS(57)(166), 
Seeley WW(44), Slifer SH(2), Small S(4)(5), Smith AG(52), Smith JP(65), Sonnen 
JA(119), Spina S(86), George-Hyslop PS(167)(168), Starks TD(169)(170), Stern 
RA(10), Stevens AB(171)(172)(173), Strittmatter SM(174), Sultzer D(175), 
Swerdlow RH(47), Tanzi RE(89), Tilson JL(176), Trojanowski JQ(8), Troncoso 
JC(177), Tsolaki M(178), Tsuang DW(38)(150), Van Deerlin VM(8), van Eldik 
LJ(179), Vance JM(1)(2), Vardarajan BN(4), Vassar R(130)(131), Vinters 
HV(159)(180), Vonsattel JP(4), Weintraub S(181), Welsh-Bohmer KA(46)(182), 
Whitehead PL(2), Wijsman EM(108)(109)(183), Wilhelmsen KC(55), Williams B(184), 
Williamson J(4), Wilms H(68), Wingo TS(124), Wisniewski T(185)(186), Woltjer 
RL(184), Woon M(37), Wright CB(187), Wu CK(68), Younkin SG(21)(71), Yu CE(59), 
Yu L(28)(29)(31), Zhu X(188), Kunkle BW(1)(2), Bush WS(3)(9), Miyashita A(13), 
Byrd GS(189), Wang LS(8), Farrer LA(10)(7)(12)(189)(190), Haines JL(3)(9), 
Mayeux R(4), Pericak-Vance MA(1)(2), Schellenberg GD(8), Jun GR(#)(7)(12)(189), 
Reitz C(#)(5)(32)(191), Naj AC(#)(192)(193); Alzheimer’s Disease Genetics 
Consortium (ADGC).

Author information:
(1)Dr. John T. Macdonald Foundation Department of Human Genetics, Miller School 
of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, FL, USA.
(2)The John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics, University of Miami, Miami, 
FL, USA.
(3)Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(4)Taub Institute for Research in Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, The 
Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New 
York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, Perelman School 
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine (Biomedical Genetics), Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(9)Cleveland Institute for Computational Biology, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, OH, USA.
(12)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(13)Molecular Genetics Division, Brain Research Institute, Niigata University, 
Niigata, Japan.
(14)Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, Department of Epidemiology, College of Public 
Health, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(15)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA.
(16)Department of Neurology, Dell Medical School, University of Texas at Austin, 
Austin, TX, USA.
(17)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(18)Department of Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(19)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center (GRECC), VA Ann Arbor 
Healthcare System (VAAAHS), Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(20)Michigan Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA.
(21)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
(22)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, University of North Texas 
Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA.
(23)Departments of Neurology, Radiology, and Medical and Molecular Genetics, 
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(24)Indiana Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(25)Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(26)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center (GRECC), University of 
Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.
(27)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.
(28)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Madison, WI, USA.
(29)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(30)Department of Behavioral Sciences, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA.
(31)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA.
(32)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(33)Civin Laboratory for Neuropathology, Banner Sun Health Research Institute, 
Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(34)Departments of Psychiatry, Neurology, and Psychology, University of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pennsylvania, WA, USA.
(35)National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center, University of Washington, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(36)Department of Psychiatry and Hope Center Program on Protein Aggregation and 
Neurodegeneration, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(37)Department of Psychiatry , University of Texas at Austin/Dell Medical 
School, Austin, TX, USA.
(38)VA Puget Sound Health Care System/GRECC, Seattle, WA, USA.
(39)Department of Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(40)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(41)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(42)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(43)Swedish Medical Center, Seattle, WA, USA.
(44)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(45)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, 
CA, USA.
(46)Department of Medicine, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(47)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(48)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Ronald M. Loeb Center for 
Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(49)Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, NY, USA.
(50)Department of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(51)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.
(52)USF Health Byrd Alzheimer's Institute, University of South Florida, Tampa, 
FL, USA.
(53)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, USA.
(54)Mental Health and Behavioral Science Service, Bruce W. Carter VA Medical 
Center, Miami, FL, USA.
(55)Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA.
(56)Neurogenetics Program, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.
(57)University of California Los Angeles, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(58)Section of Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine Research, Wake Forest School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(59)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(60)Department of Neurology, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(61)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Miller School of Medicine, 
University of Miami, Miami, FL, USA.
(62)NeuroGenomics and Informatics, Washington University, St Louis, MO, USA.
(63)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in St. Louis, St Louis, MO, 
USA.
(64)Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders Center, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(65)Department of Population and Data Sciences, University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(66)Center for Translational and Computational Neuroimmunology, Department of 
Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(67)Department of Neurology, University of California Davis, Sacramento, CA, 
USA.
(68)Departments of Neurology, Pharmacology and Neuroscience, Texas Tech 
University Health Science Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(69)Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders, University of 
California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(70)Wien Center for Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders, Mount Sinai 
Medical Center, Miami Beach, FL, USA.
(71)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
(72)Rush Institute for Healthy Aging, Department of Internal Medicine, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.
(73)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(74)Office of Strategy and Measurement, University of North Texas Health Science 
Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA.
(75)Department of Pathology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL, USA.
(76)Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, Department of Biostatistics, College of 
Public Health, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(77)Department of Neurology, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(78)Department of Psychiatry, New York University, New York, NY, USA.
(79)Department of Neurology, University of Louisville School of Medicine, 
Lousiville, KY, USA.
(80)C.S. Kubik Laboratory for Neuropathology, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Charlestown, MA, USA.
(81)Department of Neuroscience, Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(82)Department of Health Behavior and Health Systems, University of North Texas 
Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA.
(83)Department of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health, 
University of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA.
(84)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, 
GA, USA.
(85)Emory Alzheimer's Disease Center, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(86)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Indiana University, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(87)Department of Radiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(88)Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine and Partners Center for 
Personalized Genetic Medicine, Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine and 
Partners Center for Personalized Genetic Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(89)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(90)Center for Applied Genomics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(91)Division of Human Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, UK.
(92)Department of Pathology (Neuropathology), University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA, UK.
(93)UCL Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, England, USA.
(94)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, UCL Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, England, USA.
(95)Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL, USA.
(96)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California 
Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(97)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA.
(98)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA.
(99)Vanderbilt Memory and Alzheimer's Center, Department of Neurology, 
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(100)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of 
Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(101)Department of Surgery, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA.
(102)Neurogenomics Division, Translational Genomics Research Institute, Phoenix, 
AZ, USA.
(103)Department of Pathology, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(104)Department of Neurology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA.
(105)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(106)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(107)Hope Center Program on Protein Aggregation and Neurodegeneration, 
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(108)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(109)Department of Medicine (Medical Genetics), University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(110)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California 
Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.
(111)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(112)Department of Human Genetics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, 
USA.
(113)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
PA, USA.
(114)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY, 
USA.
(115)Department of Neuroscience, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT, USA.
(116)Department of Biology, yBrigham Young University, Provo, UT, USA.
(117)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, 
OR, USA.
(118)Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute, Seattle, WA, USA.
(119)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(120)Department of Pathology, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.
(121)Department of Neuropsychology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(122)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Seattle, 
USA.
(123)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, University of California Irvine, 
Irvine, CA, USA.
(124)Department of Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(125)National Center for PTSD, Boston VA Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA.
(126)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(127)National Center for PTSD at Boston VA Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA.
(128)Department of Psychiatry, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(129)Department of Psychiatry, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(130)Department of Pathology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(131)Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease Center, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(132)Department of Medicine - Pulmonary, New York University, New York, NY, USA.
(133)Department of Neurology, Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, 
Miami, FL, USA.
(134)Department of Pathology, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 
USA.
(135)School of Nursing Northwest Research Group on Aging, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(136)Pfizer Worldwide Research and Development, New York, NY, USA.
(137)Department of Pathology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(138)Weill Institute for Neurosciences, Memory and Aging Center, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(139)Department of Pathology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.
(140)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(141)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine and Alzheimer's Disease 
Research Center, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(142)Department of Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(143)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis Missouri, USA.
(144)Department of Research Regulatory Compliance, College of Medicine, Howard 
Unviersity, Washington, DC, USA.
(145)Institute for Translational Research, University of North Texas Health 
Science Center, Fort Worth,, TX, USA.
(146)Center for Mind and Brain and Department of Neurology, University of 
California Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.
(147)Center for Population Health and Aging, Texas AandM University Health 
Science Center, Lubbock , TX, USA.
(148)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of Texas Health 
Science Center San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(149)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
MN, USA.
(150)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.
(151)Pacific Health Research & Education Institute, VA Pacific Islands 
Healthcare System, Honolulu, HI, USA.
(152)Department of Neurology, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, 
CO, USA.
(153)Department of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, University of North Texas 
Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA.
(154)Department of Medical Education, TCU/UNTHSC School of Medicine, Fort Worth, 
TX, USA.
(155)Arizona Alzheimer's Consortium, Phoenix, AZ, Canada.
(156)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(157)Department of Psychiatry, University of Arizona, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(158)Alzheimer's Disease Center, New York University, New York, NY, USA.
(159)Department of Neurology, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.
(160)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Disease, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(161)Departments of Psychiatry, Medicine, Family and Community Medicine, and the 
Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, UT Health 
Science Center at San Antonio,, San Antonio, TX, Canada.
(162)Department of Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute St. Joseph's 
Hospital and Medical Center, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(163)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
Canada.
(164)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Indiana University, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(165)Department of Pathology (Neuropathology), Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(166)Department of Psychiatry, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.
(167)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, England, USA.
(168)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medicine (Neurology), University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, USA.
(169)Maya Angelou Center for Health Equity, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(170)Center for Outreach in Alzheimer's, Aging and Community Health at North 
Carolina A&T State University, Greensboro, NC, USA.
(171)Center for Applied Health Research, Baylor Scott & White Health, Temple, 
TX, USA.
(172)Center for Population Health and Aging, Texas A&M University Health Science 
Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(173)College of Medicine, Texas A&M University Health Science Center, College 
Station, TX, USA.
(174)Program in Cellular Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration and Repair, Yale 
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(175)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, University of California 
Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(176)Renaissance Computing Institute, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(177)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(178)Department of Neurology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 
Thessaloniki, Macedonia, USA.
(179)Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, Department of Neuroscience, College of 
Medicine, University of Kentucky, Kentucky, OH, USA.
(180)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California 
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(181)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(182)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University, Durham, 
NC, USA.
(183)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(184)Department of Pathology, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, 
OR, USA.
(185)Department of Psychiatry, New York University Grossman School of Medicine, 
New York, NY, USA.
(186)Center for Cognitive Neurology and Departments of Neurology and Pathology, 
New York University Grossman School of Medicine, New York, USA.
(187)Evelyn F. McKnight Brain Institute, Department of Neurology, Miller School 
of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, FL, USA.
(188)Social Sciences & Health Policy, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(189)Department of Ophthalmology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School 
of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(190)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(191)Department of Epidemiology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(192)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, Perelman School 
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
adamnaj@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.
(193)Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA. adamnaj@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Limited ancestral diversity has impaired our ability to detect risk 
variants more prevalent in ancestry groups of predominantly non-European 
ancestral background in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). We construct and 
analyze a multi-ancestry GWAS dataset in the Alzheimer's Disease Genetics 
Consortium (ADGC) to test for novel shared and population-specific late-onset 
Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) susceptibility loci and evaluate underlying genetic 
architecture in 37,382 non-Hispanic White (NHW), 6728 African American, 8899 
Hispanic (HIS), and 3232 East Asian individuals, performing within ancestry 
fixed-effects meta-analysis followed by a cross-ancestry random-effects 
meta-analysis.
RESULTS: We identify 13 loci with cross-population associations including known 
loci at/near CR1, BIN1, TREM2, CD2AP, PTK2B, CLU, SHARPIN, MS4A6A, PICALM, 
ABCA7, APOE, and two novel loci not previously reported at 11p12 (LRRC4C) and 
12q24.13 (LHX5-AS1). We additionally identify three population-specific loci 
with genome-wide significance at/near PTPRK and GRB14 in HIS and KIAA0825 in 
NHW. Pathway analysis implicates multiple amyloid regulation pathways and the 
classical complement pathway. Genes at/near our novel loci have known roles in 
neuronal development (LRRC4C, LHX5-AS1, and PTPRK) and insulin receptor activity 
regulation (GRB14).
CONCLUSIONS: Using cross-population GWAS meta-analyses, we identify novel LOAD 
susceptibility loci in/near LRRC4C and LHX5-AS1, both with known roles in 
neuronal development, as well as several novel population-unique loci. 
Reflecting the power of diverse ancestry in GWAS, we detect the SHARPIN locus 
with only 13.7% of the sample size of the NHW GWAS study (n = 409,589) in which 
this locus was first observed. Continued expansion into larger multi-ancestry 
studies will provide even more power for further elucidating the genomics of 
late-onset Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13059-025-03564-z
PMCID: PMC12273372
PMID: 40676597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: For our IRB to compile the de-identified data and conduct analyses, 
the ADGC protocol is reviewed and approved by the University of Pennsylvania IRB 
#8 (Federalwide Assurance #00004028). Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: J.A.P. has received compensation for serving as a section 
editor for Springer Nature and a grant reviewer with the Department of Defense 
and Research Grants Council of Hong Kong. M.S.A. is an advisor to Eli Lilly. 
L.G.A. receives compensation as a consultant for Biogen, Two Labs, IQVIA, NIH, 
Florida Department of Health, NIH Biobank, Eli Lilly, GE Healthcare, and Eisai; 
has received compensation for lectures, etc. from AAN, MillerMed, AiSM, and 
Health and Hospitality; and has received travel and meeting support from the 
Alzheimer’s Association; she also participates on Data Safety Monitoring or 
Advisory boards for IQVIA, NIA R01 AG061111, the UAB Nathan Shock Center, and 
the New Mexico Exploratory ADRC; she has received compensation for leadership 
roles in the Medical Science Council Alzheimer Association Greater IN Chapter, 
the Alzheimer Association Science Program Committee, and the FDA PCNS Advisory 
Committee; she also has stock or stock options Cassava Neurosciences and Golden 
Seeds; and has received materials support from AVID Pharmaceuticals, Life 
Molecular Imaging, and Roche Diagnostics. S.E.A. has received honoraria and/or 
travel expenses for lectures from Abbvie, Eisai, and Biogen and has served on 
scientific advisory boards of Corte, has received consulting fees from Athira, 
Cassava, Cognito Therapeutics, EIP Pharma and Orthogonal Neuroscience, and has 
received research grant support from NIH, Alzheimer’s Association, Alzheimer’s 
Drug Discovery Foundation, Abbvie, Amylyx, EIP Pharma, Merck, Janssen/Johnson & 
Johnson, Novartis, and vTv. S.Asthana reported receiving grants from National 
Institute on Aging/National Institutes of Health, Genentech, Merck, Toyoma 
Chemical, and Lundbeck outside the submitted work. L.L.B. has served as deputy 
editor for Alzheimer’s and Dementia for the Alzheimer’s Association. D.A.B. is a 
consultant for Biogen, Inc. B.F.B. has received institutional support from LBDA; 
is a member of the Scientific Advisory Boards of the Tau Consortium (funded by 
the Rainwater Charitable Foundation), AFTD, LBDA, and GE Healthcare; is a member 
of the Data Safety Monitoring Board of trial involving mesenchymal stem cells in 
MSA. J.D.B has received honoraria from serving on the Scientific Advisory Board 
and Speaker’s Bureau of Biogen, Celgene, EMD Serono, Genentech and Novartis; has 
received research support from AbbVie, Alexion, Alkermes, Biogen, Celgene, 
Sanofi Genzyme, Genentech, Novartis and TG Therapeutics. A.L.B. has received 
financial support from NIH, the Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration, the 
Bluefield Project, the Rainwater Charitable Foundation, Regeneron, Eisai and 
Biogen; and has served as a paid consultant for AGTC, Alector, Amylyx, 
AviadoBio, Arkuda, Arrowhead, Arvinas, Eli Lilly, Genentech, LifeEdit, Merck, 
Modalis, Oligomerix, Oscotec, Transposon and Wave. J.M.B. is compensated as a 
consultant for Stage 2 Innovations; and has received honoraria and travel 
support for speaking from Astra-Zeneca. J.D.Buxbaum is a consultant to BridgeBio 
and to Rumi; holds a patent for IGF- 1 in Phelan-McDermid syndrome; holds an 
honorary professorship from Aarhus University Denmark; receives research support 
from Takeda and Oryzon; and is a journal editor for Springer Nature. C.Cao has a 
patent pending for melatonin-insulin-THC (MIT) treatment; and serves as a 
scientific consultant for MegaNano Biotech, Inc. C.M.C. has received grants from 
the National Institutes of Health, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Veterans Affairs; has 
received nonfinancial support from Amarin; has received data safety monitoring 
board/travel/advisory board honoraria from Alzheimer's Association, National 
Institutes of Health, and American Fed Aging Res Beeson Program. J.C. is 
currently employed as a senior scientist at Takeda Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; the 
company did not influence the study design, analyses, or interpretation of the 
results presented in this manuscript. C.Cruchaga has received research support 
from GSK and Eisai, is a member of the advisory boards of Vivid Genomics and 
Circular Genomics, and owns stocks. D.W.D. is an editorial board member for Acta 
Neuropathologica, Brain, Brain Pathology, Neuropathology and Applied 
Neurobiology, Annals of Neurology, Neuropathology, and is an Editor for the 
International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Pathology and for the 
American Journal of Neurodegenerative Disease; and receives support Mangurian 
Foundation and the Rainwater Charitable Foundation. R.S.D. is an employee of F. 
Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. and Genentech, Inc.; and owns or has stock options in F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd. N.E.-T. receives research support from the NIH; is a 
member of multiple Scientific Advisory Boards including the Framingham Heart 
Study Executive Committee, Cytox, and the NIH TREAT-AD Consortium External 
Advisory Board Member; has patents pending for Human Monoclonal Antibodies 
Against Amyloid Beta Protein and Their Use as Therapeutic Agents Application, 
and RNAi against targets in Progressive Supranuclear palsy; is an Editorial 
Board Member for the American Journal of Neurodegenerative Disease and 
Alzheimer's & Dementia; and receives research support from Florida Health Ed and 
Ethel Moore Alzheimer's Disease Research Program and an Alzheimer's Association 
Zenith Award. T.M.F. has received honoraria and travel support from the External 
Advisory Boards for Alzheimer Disease Research Centers that might also be a site 
for the LEADS study. D.R.G. serves on Data Safety Monitoring Boards for 
Cognition Therapeutics and Proclara Biosciences; and is an Editor of Alzheimer’s 
Research & Therapy. B.G. has consulted for Piramal Imaging. A.M.G is a member of 
the Scientific Advisory Boards/Scientific Research Boards for Genentech, Muna 
Therapeutics, and Denali Therapeutics. N.R.G.-.R. has received royalties for an 
article in UpToDate; and has received research support for multi-center studies 
at Eli Lilly & Company, Biogen, and AbbVie. R.C.G. has received compensation as 
an advisor for AIA, Grail, Humanity, Kneed Media, Plumcare, UnitedHealth, 
Verily, VibrentHealth, Wamberg; and is co-founder of Genome Medical, Inc. 
J.Hardy is supported by the UK Dementia Research Institute, which receives its 
funding from DRI, Ltd., funded by the UK Medical Research Council, Alzheimer's 
Society, and Alzheimer's Research UK; and is also supported by the MRC, Wellcome 
Trust, the Dolby Family Fund, and the National Institute for Health Research 
University College London Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre. T.H. is a member 
of a scientific advisory board for Vivid Genomics. L.S.H. is the Web Editor for 
JAMA Neurology. B.T.H. has a family member who works at Novartis, and owns stock 
in Novartis; and serves on the Scientific Advisory Board of Dewpoint and owns 
stock; and serves on a Scientific Advisory Board or is a consultant for AbbVie, 
Aprinoia Therapeutics, Arvinas, Avrobio, Axial, Biogen, BMS, Cure Alz Fund, Cell 
Signaling, Eisai, Genentech, Ionis, Latus, Novartis, Sangamo, Sanofi, Seer, 
Takeda, the US Dept of Justice, Vigil, Voyager; and receives research support 
for his laboratory from research grants from the National Institutes of Health, 
Cure Alzheimer’s Fund, Tau Consortium, and the JPB Foundation, and through 
sponsored research agreements from Abbvie, BMS, and Biogen. G.P.J. was the 2022 
Past President of the American Society of Human Genetics. J.H.K. has been a 
consultant for Biogen. E.B.L. receives royalties from contributions to UpToDate. 
J.B.L. is a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of Vaxxinity and has 
received grant support from Biogen and GE Healthcare. A.I.L. is a founder of 
EmTheraPro. R.B.L. has received research support from the National Institutes of 
Health, the FDA, and the National Headache Foundation; serves as consultant, 
advisory board member, or has received honoraria or research support from 
AbbVie/Allergan, Amgen, Biohaven, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories (Promius), 
electroCore, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Lundbeck, Merck, Novartis, Teva, 
Vector, and Vedanta Research; receives royalties from Wolff’s Headache, 8 th 
edition (Oxford University Press, 2009), and Informa; and holds stock in 
Biohaven and Manistee. D.C.M. receives NIH funding; is the inventor of the 
FCI-SF and the UAB Research Foundation (UABRF); owns the FCI-SF through 
copyright and trademark (FCAP); has previously received royalty and consulting 
income from UABRF licensed use and sale of the FCI-SF; and is currently a 
consultant on an unaffiliated NIH grant using the FCI-SF. A.V.M. is a council 
member of the Alzheimer's Association International Research Grants Program, on 
the steering committee of the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, and on the 
editorial boards of Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research and Clinical 
Interventions and the Journal of Neuro-ophthalmology. S.I.M. is an employee of 
Pfizer, Inc.; the company did not influence the study design, analyses, or 
interpretation of the results presented in this manuscript. B.L.M. has received 
grant support from NIH, the Bluefield Project, and the Rainwater Charitable 
Foundation; has received royalties from books published by Cambridge University 
Press, Elsevier, Inc., Guilford Publications, Inc., Johns Hopkins Press, Oxford 
University Press and Taylor & Francis Group; has received honorarium for serving 
as a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of the Alzheimer’s Disease Research 
Center (ADRC) at Massachusetts General Hospital, Stanford University, and the 
University of Washington; and has received consulting fees from Genworth. J.W.M. 
receives compensation as Associate Editor for the journal Nutrition Reviews; and 
has received within the last 3 years consulting compensation from Church and 
Dwight, Inc.; and is a producer and seller of consumer goods including vitamin 
supplements. J.C.M is a consultant for clinical trials of antidementia drugs 
from Eli Lilly and Company, Biogen, and Janssen; is a consultant for the 
Barcelona Brain Research Center (BBRC) and the TS Srinivasan Advisory Board; is 
an advisory board member for the Cure Alzheimer’s Fund Research Strategy 
Council. S.E.O. has multiple pending and issued patents on blood biomarkers for 
detecting and precision medicine therapeutics in neurodegenerative diseases; and 
is a founding scientist of Cx Precision Medicine, Inc. and owns stock options. 
R.C.P. is chair for the data monitoring committee for Pfizer and Janssen 
Alzheimer Immunotherapy and is a consultant for GE Healthcare and Roche. W.W.P. 
is a co-inventor of and holds a patent for WO/2018/160496, related to the 
differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells into microglia. E.M.R. is a 
scientific advisor to Alzheon, Aural Analytics, Denali, Retromer Therapeutics, 
and Vaxxinity and a co-founder and advisor to ALZPath. J.M.R. receives research 
support from Avid Pharmaceuticals. R.N.R. is the Editor of JAMA Neurology. M.S. 
has received grants from the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai and the US 
Department of Veterans Affairs Veterans Health Administration. A.J.S. has 
received support from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Eli Lilly 
(in-kind contribution of PET tracer precursor), is a member of scientific 
advisor boards for Bayer Oncology and Eisai and of the dementria advisory board 
and Siemens Medical Solutions USA, is a member of the National Heart, Lung, and 
Blood Institute MESA observational study monitoring board, and is part of the 
editorial office support as editor-in-chief for Brain Imaging and Behavior for 
Springer-Nature Publishing. J.A.S. has received consulting fees from AVID, 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, and Cerveau Technologies. L.S.S. has received personal 
fees from AC Immune, Athira, BioVie, Eli Lilly, Lundbeck, Merck, Neurim Ltd., 
Novo-Nordisk, Otsuka, Roche/Genentech within the past year; and research grants 
from Biogen, Eisai, and Eli Lilly and Company. W.W.S. serves as a paid 
consultant to Biogen Idec and has received grant support from NIH, the 
Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration, the Bluefield Project, the 
Rainwater Charitable Foundation, and the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative. S.A.S. has 
received an unrestricted research grant from Mars, Inc. R.A.S. has received 
grants from the National Institutes of Health and the from Concussion Legacy 
Foundation; and received compensation from Biogen and Lundbeck; and has received 
royalties received from Psychological Assessment Resources for published 
neuropsychological tests; and has stock options as a member of the board of King 
Devick Technologies. D.L.S. has received research support from NIH and Eisai, 
has participated as a paid member of a DSMB or adjudication committee with 
Acadia, Avanir, Janssen, and Otsuka, and has received consulting fees from 
Avanir and NovoNordisk. R.E.T. has received patents for gamma-secretase 
modulators for exploring treatment of Alzheimer's disease. H.W. has received 
support from the TEVA speaker's bureau. T.S.W. is as a cofounder of revXon. 
C.B.W. has received royalties from UpTo Date for 2 chapters; has done legal 
consulting for the law firms of Abali, Milne, and Faegre Baker Daniels; is a 
consultant for Merck and Co; and does stroke adjudication for a National 
Institutes of Health clinical trial. L.A.F. has received institutional support 
from Mass Mutual Insurance. G.T., W.-P.L., Y.Y.L., P.P.K., J.B.M., J.A.P., 
R.M.S., X.Z., M.S.A., R.L.A., L.G.A., S.E.A., S.Asthana, C.T.B., R.C.B., L.L.B., 
S.B., T.G.B., J.T.B., D.Beekly, B.B., D.Bennett, T.D.B., D.A.B., B.F.B., J.D.B., 
A.L.B., J.M.B., J.D.Buxbaum, C.Cao, C.S.C., C.M.C., M.M.C., H.C.C., S.Craft, 
P.K.C., E.A.C., C.Cruchaga, M.L.C., P.L.D., C.D., J.C.D., M.Dick, D.W.D., 
R.S.D., R.D., N.E.-T., D.A.E., D.W.F., V.F., T.M.F., M.P.F., D.R.G., A.G., M.G., 
D.H.G., B.G., A.M.G., N.R.G.-R., R.C.G., H.H., O.Harari, J.Hardy, T.H., L.S.H., 
R.M.H., M.J.H., B.T.H., G.P.J., M.I.K., A.K., J.S.K., J.A.K., C.D.K., A.Khaleeq, 
N.W.K., J.H.K., W.K., E.B.L., J.B.L., A.I.L., A.P.L., R.B.L., M.W.L., O.L.L., 
K.L.L., C.G.L., M.E.F., D.C.M., E.R.M., D.C.Mash, E.M., A.V.M., W.C.M., A.C.M., 
M.Mesulam, B.L.M., C.A.M., J.W.M., T.J.M., J.C.M., S.Mukherjee, A.J.M., S.E.O., 
H.L.P., V.P., E.P., R.C.P., W.W.P., E.M.R., J.M.R., E.D.R., M.Rodriguear, 
R.N.R., M.S., A.J.S., J.A.S., L.S.S., W.W.S., S.A.S., R.A.S., S.M.S., D.S., 
R.E.T., D.W.T., V.M.VD., L.J.VE., J.M.V., B.N.V., E.M.W., T.S.W., C.B.W., 
S.G.Y., B.W.K., W.B., L.-S.W., L.A.F., J.L.H., R.M., M.A.P.-V., G.D.S., G.R.J., 
C.R., and A.C.N. have received grant funding from the National Institutes of 
Health, including from the National Institute on Aging and others. E.R. has 
received grant funding from the Canadian Institutes for Health Research.


33. BMC Neurol. 2025 Jul 17;25(1):295. doi: 10.1186/s12883-025-04292-4.

Efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation in cognitive impairment 
of neurodegenerative diseases: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Zhang Y(#)(1), Xu K(#)(1), Wang Y(1), Shen Y(1), Liu Z(1), Zhang C(1), Zhou 
Y(2), Lv P(1), Bai Y(3), Wang S(4).

Author information:
(1)The Second Affiliated Hospital, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, 
Harbin, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Yunnan First People's Hospital, 
Kunming, Yunnan Province, China.
(3)Institute of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, Heilongjiang Academy of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Harbin, China. 1447003128@qq.com.
(4)The Second Affiliated Hospital, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, 
Harbin, China. hljwang@aliyun.com.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: Currently, there is a lack of reliable evidence to prove the 
effectiveness of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in the 
cognitive and emotional domains of neurodegenerative diseases (ND), leading to 
the absence of a unified and effective rTMS treatment protocol or stimulation 
targets. This systematic review and meta-analysis summarizes existing evidence 
to evaluate the efficacy of rTMS targeting the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex 
(DLPFC) and non-DLPFC in the cognitive and emotional aspects of ND.
METHODS: For two common types of ND Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's 
disease (PD), we included 17 relevant randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from 
five databases. Search terms included rTMS, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's 
disease, cognitive impairment, and randomized controlled studies. Two 
independent reviewers assessed the risk of bias in the included literature, 
performed data extraction, and evaluated the evidence. Treatment effects were 
assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE), the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD), the Hamilton 
Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA), and Activities of Daily Living (ADL). Data were 
analyzed using R software to evaluate effect sizes and 95% confidence interval 
(CI). Heterogeneity tests were conducted to assess differences in treatment 
effects between DLPFC and non-DLPFC.
RESULTS: We screened 3,467 articles and identified 17 studies that met the 
inclusion criteria. The pooled results showed significant effects: MoCA (MD: 
2.13, 95% CI [0.75, 3.52], p < 0.001); MMSE (MD: 1.16, 95% CI [0.91, 1.41], 
p = 0.0075); HAMD (MD: -2.63, 95% CI [-6.45, -1.20], p = 0.14); HAMA (SMD: 
-0.62, 95% CI [-0.91, -0.33], p < 0.001); ADL (MD: -0.56, 95% CI [-1.10, 2.22], 
p = 0.48).
CONCLUSION: rTMS has a positive effect on cognitive impairment and emotional 
abnormalities associated with ND. There is a significant difference in MoCA 
scores between rTMS applied to DLPFC and non-DLPFC. DLPFC may serve as a 
reliable stimulation target for treating non-motor symptoms related to ND (such 
as cognitive and emotional issues), which is beneficial for developing an rTMS 
treatment protocol with broad applicability for ND. However, due to the small 
number of included studies and the indirect nature of the comparison methods, we 
should interpret these results with caution.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12883-025-04292-4
PMCID: PMC12273377
PMID: 40676541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: All the authors of this 
manuscript have agreed to the publication of this manuscript. The manuscript 
does not contain any data from any individual. Therefore, the consent for 
publishing personal data is not applicable. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


34. Ther Innov Regul Sci. 2025 Jul 17. doi: 10.1007/s43441-025-00843-6. Online
ahead  of print.

Estimand Endpoints for Longitudinal Measures of Continuous Disease Progression 
with an Alzheimer's Disease Example.

Hu H(1), Brys M(2), Ruberg SJ(3), Qu Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Global Statistical Sciences, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, 46285, 
USA. hu_haoyan@lilly.com.
(2)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(3)Analytix Thinking, LLC, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(4)Global Statistical Sciences, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, 46285, 
USA.

The ICH E9 (R1) Addendum provides a framework to define an estimand and perform 
sensitivity analysis. The clinical endpoint (i.e., variable, response, outcome) 
is one of the important estimand attributes. In our opinion, the selection of 
the endpoint in Alzheimer's disease requires more exploration beyond what is 
used currently. The change in a cognitive and functional assessment scale from 
baseline to a specific time point of interest is often used as a primary or key 
secondary endpoint in clinical trials. However, such a change from baseline to 
the time point of interest may not reflect the benefit of the treatment over the 
course of treatment duration and may be difficult to intuitively understand by 
patients and clinicians. For two patients with the same change from baseline, 
the patient with rapid disease progression in the beginning is considered to 
have overall worse quality of life compared to the other patient with slow 
disease progression in the beginning but rapid progression toward the end. We 
explore time-averaged measurement (TAM) as a new endpoint and propose using the 
relative change to quantify the treatment difference. Estimands under the ICH E9 
(R1) Addendum were considered by using various strategies in handling 
intercurrent events and used corresponding methods for handling missing data. We 
illustrate the use of TAM and compare the results with other commonly used 
estimand endpoints (the change from baseline, the relative disease progression 
model, and the slope of disease progression) for different estimands and 
imputation methods from retrospective analyses of a historical study.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Drug Information 
Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1007/s43441-025-00843-6
PMID: 40676466

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Conflict of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


35. Acta Neuropathol. 2025 Jul 17;150(1):6. doi: 10.1007/s00401-025-02912-4.

Amyloid-β plaque-associated microglia drive TSPO upregulation in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Martinez-Perez DA(1), McGlothan JL(1), Rodichkin AN(1), Abilmouna K(1), Bursac 
Z(2), Lopera F(3), Villegas-Lanau CA(3), Guilarte TR(4).

Author information:
(1)Brain, Behavior & the Environment Program, Department of Environmental Health 
Sciences, Robert Stempel College of Public Health & Social Work, Florida 
International University, Miami, FL, 33199, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Robert Stempel College of Public Health & Social 
Work, Florida International University, Miami, FL, 33199, USA.
(3)Neuroscience Group, Universidad de Antioquia, 050010, Medellín, Colombia.
(4)Brain, Behavior & the Environment Program, Department of Environmental Health 
Sciences, Robert Stempel College of Public Health & Social Work, Florida 
International University, Miami, FL, 33199, USA. tguilart@fiu.edu.

Translocator protein 18 kDA (TSPO) imaging using positron emission tomography 
(PET) is widely used to assess neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
However, the significance of the increase in brain TSPO levels in AD 
pathophysiology is not known. Here, we show that in the 5XFAD transgenic mouse 
model, brain TSPO levels increase in an age-, brain region-, and sex-dependent 
fashion. TSPO levels were first increased in the subiculum at 1.5 months of age 
in male and female 5XFAD mice compared to wildtype mice. The TSPO increase in 
the subiculum of 1.5-month 5XFAD mice coincided with the appearance of Aβ 
aggregation and increased serum Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratio which occurred prior to 
increased serum neurofilament light chain (Nfl) levels and well before cognitive 
function deficits. We also discovered that the brain TSPO increase was driven by 
an expansion of activated microglia in contact with Aβ-plaques, that also 
expressed higher TSPO levels per microglia than microglia not in contact with 
plaques. While overall, astrocytes were highly activated, the increased TSPO 
signal in the 5XFAD mouse brain did not increase in astrocytes. We also compared 
the 5XFAD mouse findings to postmortem human brain tissue from early-onset 
autosomal-dominant Presenilin 1 (PSEN1)-E280A mutation AD cases. The results in 
PSEN1-E280A cases confirmed the 5XFAD mouse findings relevant to increased TSPO 
levels and an increase in TSPO per microglia contacting Aβ-plaques. In summary, 
TSPO is an early biomarker of neuroinflammation in the AD brain that first 
increases in the subiculum simultaneously with increased Aβ aggregation and 
serum Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratio. The increased TSPO response in the 5XFAD mouse brain 
and in the brain from PSEN1-E280A mutation AD cases reflects 
Aβ-plaque-associated microglia with a high TSPO content. This microglia subtype 
is likely to promote the progression of AD pathology, neurodegeneration, and 
cognitive decline and their high TSPO content may serve as a target for TSPO 
ligand-based therapy.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00401-025-02912-4
PMCID: PMC12271292
PMID: 40676304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


36. Nat Commun. 2025 Jul 17;16(1):6244. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61355-3.

AI-guided patient stratification improves outcomes and efficiency in the 
AMARANTH Alzheimer's Disease clinical trial.

Vaghari D(#)(1), Mohankumar G(#)(2), Tan K(3), Lowe A(3), Shering C(4), Tino 
P(5), Kourtzi Z(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Centre for AI, Data Science & Artificial Intelligence, BioPharmaceuticals 
R&D, AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, USA.
(3)Neuroscience, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, UK.
(4)Neuroscience, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Boston, USA.
(5)School of Computer Science, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. 
zk240@cam.ac.uk.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) drug discovery has been hampered by patient 
heterogeneity, and the lack of sensitive tools for precise stratification. Here, 
we demonstrate that our robust and interpretable AI-guided tool (predictive 
prognostic model, PPM) enhances precision in patient stratification, improving 
outcomes and decreasing sample size for a AD clinical trial. The AMARANTH trial 
of lanabecestat, a BACE1 inhibitor, was deemed futile, as treatment did not 
change cognitive outcomes, despite reducing β-amyloid. Employing the PPM, we 
re-stratify patients precisely using baseline data and demonstrate significant 
treatment effects; that is, 46% slowing of cognitive decline for slow 
progressive patients at earlier stages of neurodegeneration. In contrast, rapid 
progressive patients did not show significant change in cognitive outcomes. Our 
results provide evidence for AI-guided patient stratification that is more 
precise than standard patient selection approaches (e.g. β-amyloid positivity) 
and has strong potential to enhance efficiency and efficacy of future AD trials.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-61355-3
PMCID: PMC12271323
PMID: 40675957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: G.M., C.S., A.L., and K.T. 
are employees or former employees of AstraZeneca and may own shares. The 
remaining authors declare no competing interests.


37. Neurol Clin. 2025 Aug;43(3):457-465. doi: 10.1016/j.ncl.2025.04.001. Epub
2025  Jun 11.

How Common Is Pain in Neurologic Disorders and Why Should Neurologists Care?

Singla P(1), Argoff CE(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Pain Mangement Center, University of Virginia, 
545 Ray C Hunt Drive, First floor, Charlottesville, VA 22903, USA. Electronic 
address: ps7ey@uvahealth.org.
(2)Department of Neurology, Comprehensive Pain Center, Albany Medical Center, 47 
New Scotland Avenue, Albany, NY 12208, USA.

This article explores the link between chronic pain and neurologic disorders, 
focusing on how pain affects conditions like Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, multiple sclerosis, and post-stroke pain. The article highlights the 
need to recognize pain as an important symptom in these conditions and 
encourages neurologists to take an active role in managing pain. By 
understanding how pain works and using a team approach, health care providers 
can improve the quality of life for patients and create better treatment plans 
for chronic pain related to neurologic disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ncl.2025.04.001
PMID: 40675659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure No disclosures.


38. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2025 Jul 17. doi: 10.1177/15409996251360548.
Online  ahead of print.

Practice-Level Severity Case Mix and Treatment Patterns for Premenopausal 
Noncancerous Hysterectomy.

Mathias JG(1)(2), Rivadeneira NA(3), Doll KM(4), Howe CJ(5)(6), Green Howard 
A(7)(8), Wood ME(3), Anderson L(1), Green M(1), Carey ET(9), Myers E(1), Carey 
TS(10), Stürmer T(2), Robinson WR(1)(11)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Division of Women's Community and Population Health, Department of Obstetrics 
and Gynecology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(2)Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(4)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, University of Washington School of 
Medicine, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Center for Epidemiologic Research, School of 
Public Health, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Boston University, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Department of Biostatistics, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(8)Carolina Population Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(9)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, School of Medicine, University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(10)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(11)Duke-Margolis Health Policy Center, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, 
USA.
(12)Duke-UNC Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(13)Duke Cancer Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

Background: Hysterectomy for noncancerous conditions is a 
patient-preference-sensitive procedure. Therefore, gynecological practices may 
provide hysterectomy at varying levels of symptom severity. We assess whether 
practice-level severity case mix associates with segregation of patients by race 
and ethnicity or insurance status. Methods: In this case series, we analyzed 
electronic health records of 1,590 noncancerous hysterectomy patients across 20 
clinical practices within a large health care system in the U.S. South 
(2014-2017). By abstracting 12-month presurgical medical notes, we developed 
severity scores for bleeding, pain, and bulk symptoms. The practice-level 
severity case mix measure distinguished six practices where ≥18% of patients had 
below median scores for bleeding, pain, and bulk. Log-binomial models estimated 
prevalence ratios (PRs) for severity case mix by race and ethnicity and 
insurance, adjusting for age, body mass index, gynecological conditions, 
previous abdominal surgeries, and prior uterine sparing treatments. Results: 
Patients at practices with lower severity case mix differed in surgical 
indications, had fewer uterine-sparing treatments before undergoing 
hysterectomy, and were largely (96%) privately insured. Compared to White 
patients, Hispanic patients underwent hysterectomy less frequently at lower 
severity practices (PR: 0.52 [0.33-0.82]) while Black patients showed no 
difference based on the point estimate (PR: 1.00 [0.87-1.14]). Publicly-insured 
and uninsured patients were less likely than privately-insured patients to 
receive hysterectomy at lower severity practices (PR: 0.13 [0.05-0.36] and PR: 
0.28 [0.12-0.68], respectively). Conclusions: Publicly insured and uninsured 
patients receiving hysterectomy-including nearly all Hispanic patients-were 
concentrated in practices with a higher symptom severity case mix.

DOI: 10.1177/15409996251360548
PMID: 40675651


39. J Nutr. 2025 Jul 15:S0022-3166(25)00427-4. doi: 10.1016/j.tjnut.2025.07.004. 
Online ahead of print.

Combination Supplement Therapy: A New Frontier in Treatment of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases.

Shtilbans A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, New York, 
United States; Department of Neurology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New 
York, United States. Electronic address: als9096@med.cornell.edu.

This review highlights the importance and potential beneficial effects of 
dietary supplements, including taurine, tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), 
curcumin, coenzyme Q10, creatine, and N-acetylcysteine, in the management of 
neurodegenerative diseases. Studies in preclinical models have consistently 
shown significant potential of these supplements in mitigating neurodegenerative 
pathology. Through a range of mechanisms targeting different molecular pathways, 
these supplements demonstrate therapeutic outcomes in preclinical models of 
conditions such as Parkinson disease, Alzheimer disease, amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis, and Huntington disease. This review discusses published data on each 
of these supplements in the context of neurodegenerative diseases. It also 
discusses a combination therapy concept and proposes a strategy to formulate an 
optimal blend of these supplements. This combination approach will target key 
processes, including mitochondrial dysfunction, protein misfolding, 
neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress responsible for neurodegenerative 
conditions. Additionally, this review examines various models used for both the 
initial screening and subsequent assessment of candidate supplement 
combinations.

Copyright © 2025 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjnut.2025.07.004
PMID: 40675338

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The author reports no 
conflicts of interest.


40. J Biol Chem. 2025 Aug;301(8):110479. doi: 10.1016/j.jbc.2025.110479. Epub
2025  Jul 15.

Neuronal endolysosomal alterations induced by Apolipoprotein E4 emerge over time 
in primary neurons.

Nyberg E(1), Konings SC(2), Lindblom N(3), Israelsson B(3), Klementieva O(4), 
Martinsson I(5), Gouras GK(6).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Dementia Research Unit, Department of Experimental Medical 
Science, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. Electronic address: 
emma.nyberg@med.lu.se.
(2)Medical Microspectroscopy, Department of Experimental Medical Science, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden; CNCR, Center for Neurogenomics & Cognitive Research, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(3)Experimental Dementia Research Unit, Department of Experimental Medical 
Science, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(4)Medical Microspectroscopy, Department of Experimental Medical Science, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(5)Experimental Dementia Research Unit, Department of Experimental Medical 
Science, Lund University, Lund, Sweden; Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience 
& Center for Neural Computation, University of Science and Technology, 
Trondheim, Norway.
(6)Experimental Dementia Research Unit, Department of Experimental Medical 
Science, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. Electronic address: 
gunnar.gouras@med.lu.se.

Apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), the major genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), is vital for understanding cellular processes involved in AD pathogenesis. 
Evidence implicates endosomes as a central player in AD, where endosomal 
enlargement in neurons is among the earliest changes in AD. This enlargement was 
reported to be enhanced in APOE4 carriers. Cells internalize ApoE into endosomes 
for lipid delivery, and previous studies indicate that ApoE4 influences 
endosomes. However, the effect of ApoE4 on endosome function seems different 
depending on cell type, and our understanding of how ApoE4 influences endosomes 
in mature neurons, the cell type degenerating in AD, remains limited. We aimed 
to increase understanding of the impact ApoE4 has on endosomal dynamics in 
primary neurons and whether external triggers, such as time-in-culture/aging, 
synaptic activity, and cholesterol, influence these endosomal changes. We show 
that without external triggers, mature primary neurons from ApoE knockout (KO), 
ApoE3, and ApoE4 mice show no major differences in endosomal appearance and 
function and adapt similarly to increased synaptic activity. However, with 
prolonged time in culture, neurons with ApoE4 show reduced degradative ability, 
along with a decreased number of active lysosomal compartments. Moreover, when 
supplying aged cultures with cholesterol, ApoE4 neurons have a predisposition to 
accumulate cholesterol in the endolysosomal system. Taken together, we show that 
ApoE4 impacts endolysosome function in primary neurons, but that changes emerge 
only after prolonged time in culture. A better understanding of how ApoE4 
impacts neurons could provide important insights into ApoE4-directed therapy for 
AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbc.2025.110479
PMCID: PMC12357307
PMID: 40675218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have the appearance to infuence the work reported in this paper.


41. Cell. 2025 Sep 4;188(18):5003-5019.e22. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2025.06.030. Epub
 2025 Jul 16.

Brain endothelial gap junction coupling enables rapid vasodilation propagation 
during neurovascular coupling.

Krolak T(1), Kaplan L(1), Navas K(1), Chen L(1), Birmingham A(1), Ryvkin D(1), 
Izsa V(1), Powell M(2), Wu Z(3), Deverman BE(2), Gu C(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, MA, USA.
(3)Weill Cornell Medicine Helen & Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Institute, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: chenghua_gu@hms.harvard.edu.

To meet the brain's moment-to-moment energy demand, neural activation rapidly 
increases local blood flow. This process, known as neurovascular coupling, 
involves rapid, coordinated vasodilation of the brain's arterial network. Here, 
we demonstrate that endothelial gap junction coupling enables long-range 
propagation of vasodilation signals through the vasculature during neurovascular 
coupling. The molecular composition of these gap junctions is zonated along the 
arterio-venous axis, with arteries being the most strongly coupled segment. 
Using optogenetics and visual stimuli in awake mice, we found that acute, 
arterial endothelial cell type-specific deletion of Cx37 and Cx40 abolishes 
arterial gap junction coupling and results in impaired vasodilation. 
Specifically, we demonstrated that arterial endothelial gap junction coupling 
determines both the speed and the spatial extent of vasodilation propagation 
elicited by neural activity. These findings indicate that endothelial gap 
junctions serve as a signaling highway for neurovascular coupling, enabling 
flexible and efficient distribution of limited energetic resources.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2025.06.030
PMCID: PMC12337775
PMID: 40675149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests B.E.D. is listed as an 
inventor on a patent application (US20240325568A1) filed by the Broad Institute 
concerning production and use of the AAV-BI30 vector. B.E.D. is a scientific 
founder and scientific adviser of Apertura Gene Therapy. B.E.D. received 
research funding from Apertura Gene Therapy. B.E.D. is on the scientific 
advisory board of Tevard Biosciences.


42. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2025 Aug;392(8):103639. doi:
10.1016/j.jpet.2025.103639.  Epub 2025 Jun 20.

Alzheimer disease: Amyloid peptide controversies and challenges of anti-Aβ 
immunotherapy.

Almohmadi NH(1), Al-Kuraishy HM(2), Albuhadily AK(2), Al-Gareeb AI(3), Abdelaziz 
AM(4), Alexiou A(5), Papadakis M(6), El-Saber Batiha G(7).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Nutrition Department, College of Applied Medical Sciences, Umm 
Al-Qura University, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Mustansiriyah University, Baghdad, Iraq.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Mustansiriyah University, Baghdad, Iraq; Jabir ibn Hayyan Medical University, 
Najaf, Iraq.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Sinai 
University - Arish Branch, Arish, Egypt. Electronic address: 
ahmed.abdelaziz@su.edu.eg.
(5)University Centre for Research & Development, Chandigarh University, Mohali, 
India; Department of Research & Development, Funogen, Athens, Greece.
(6)University Hospital Witten-Herdecke, University of Witten, Herdecke, 
Wuppertal, Germany. Electronic address: drmariospapadakis@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Damanhour University, Damanhour, Egypt. Electronic address: 
dr_gaber_batiha@vetmed.dmu.edu.eg.

Alzheimer disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease marked by the 
accumulation of extracellular β-amyloid (Aβ) plaques and intracellular 
neurofibrillary tangles containing tau protein. Given the relentless 
deterioration in AD, strategies to slow its progression often focus on 
inhibiting Aβ production or aggregation. However, numerous clinical trials 
targeting Aβ in later disease stages have shown limited success in reversing 
cognitive decline, potentially due to intervening too late in the disease 
course. Emerging evidence suggests that addressing Aβ pathology during the 
earliest phases of AD, before the occurrence of neuronal damage, may be 
beneficial for preserving cognitive function. Thus, therapeutic approaches aimed 
at reducing Aβ levels, such as anti-Aβ antibodies, are likely to yield greater 
benefits when implemented early in the disease trajectory. Such evidence 
underscores the rationale for prioritizing early-stage interventions in AD drug 
development. However, disrupting the physiological role of Aβ, which plays a 
role in normal brain function, might inadvertently worsen clinical outcomes, 
highlighting the need for nuanced therapeutic strategies. Therefore, this review 
aims to explore the dual aspects of Aβ biology: its natural role in the brain 
and the potential of anti-Aβ immunotherapy, particularly targeting amyloid 
plaques, as a promising avenue for modifying AD progression when timed 
appropriately. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This review highlights that β-amyloid 
(Aβ) has a dual role in both supporting synaptic plasticity and memory via 
nicotinic receptor activation and driving Alzheimer disease neuropathology, 
emphasizing that early-stage Aβ-targeted immunotherapy may prevent cognitive 
decline while preserving the neuroprotective functions of Aβ, thereby refining 
therapeutic strategies and advancing understanding of the complex role of Aβ in 
neural health and disease.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpet.2025.103639
PMCID: PMC12489360
PMID: 40674941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


43. Artif Intell Med. 2025 Oct;168:103218. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2025.103218.
Epub  2025 Jul 10.

AI-based mining of biomedical literature: Applications for drug repurposing for 
the treatment of dementia.

Sikirzhytskaya A(1), Tyagin I(2), Sutton SS(3), Wyatt MD(4), Safro I(2), 
Shtutman M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Drug Discovery and Biomedical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, 
University of South Carolina, United States of America. Electronic address: 
sikirzha@mailbox.sc.edu.
(2)Department of Computer and Information Sciences, University of Delaware, 
United States of America.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Outcomes Sciences, College of Pharmacy, 
University of South Carolina, United States of America.
(4)Department of Drug Discovery and Biomedical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, 
University of South Carolina, United States of America.
(5)Department of Drug Discovery and Biomedical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, 
University of South Carolina, United States of America. Electronic address: 
shtutmanm@cop.sc.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Jun 09:2024.06.06.597745. doi: 10.1101/2024.06.06.597745.
    Res Sq. 2024 Aug 17:rs.3.rs-4750719. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-4750719/v1.

Neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and HIV-associated 
neurocognitive disorder severely impact patients and healthcare systems. While 
effective treatments remain limited, researchers are actively developing ways to 
slow progression and improve patient outcomes, requiring innovative approaches 
to handle huge volumes of new scientific data. To enable the automatic analysis 
of biomedical data we introduced AGATHA, an effective AI-based literature mining 
tool that can navigate massive scientific literature databases. The overarching 
goal of this effort is to adapt AGATHA for drug repurposing by revealing hidden 
connections between FDA-approved medications and a health condition of interest. 
Our tool converts the abstracts of peer-reviewed papers from PubMed into 
multidimensional space where each gene and health condition are represented by 
specific metrics. We implemented advanced statistical analysis to reveal 
distinct clusters of scientific terms within the virtual space created using 
AGATHA-calculated parameters for selected health conditions and genes. Partial 
Least Squares Discriminant Analysis was employed for categorizing and predicting 
samples (122 diseases and 20,889 genes) fitted to specific classes. Advanced 
statistics were employed to build a discrimination model and extract lists of 
genes specific to each disease class. We focused on repurposing drugs for 
dementia by identifying dementia-associated genes highly ranked in other disease 
classes. The method was developed for detection of genes that shared across 
multiple conditions and classified them based on their roles in biological 
pathways. This led to the selection of six primary drugs for further study.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2025.103218
PMID: 40674898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have declared that no competing interests exist.


44. J Appl Gerontol. 2025 Jul 17:7334648251358532. doi:
10.1177/07334648251358532.  Online ahead of print.

Racial and Ethnic Differences in Post-acute Home Health Services Among Older 
Adults With Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias.

Yang MT(1), Temkin-Greener H(1), Veazie P(1), Cai S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA.

Home health is critical for older adults with Alzheimer's Disease and Related 
Dementias (ADRD), and more therapy and/or nursing visits are linked to better 
home health outcomes. Yet, whether visit frequency varies by race and ethnicity 
remains unclear. Using Medicare claims data in 2019 and 2021, we analyzed a 
cohort of 301,916 fee-for-service hospitalized Medicare beneficiaries with ADRD, 
investigating differences in nursing and therapy visits within 30-day 
post-discharge across racial and ethnic groups, and changes during the COVID-19 
pandemic. On average, patients received 5.1 nursing and 6.2 therapy visits 
pre-pandemic, declining to 4.6 and 5.2, respectively, in 2021. Black individuals 
experienced the most notable drop in nursing visits, while racially and 
ethnically minoritized groups consistently received fewer therapy visits 
compared to White counterparts, both before and during the pandemic. These 
results highlight persistent differences in home health utilization, with 
implications for policy promoting equitable access for minoritized populations.

DOI: 10.1177/07334648251358532
PMID: 40674602


45. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2025 Jul 17:nlaf081. doi: 10.1093/jnen/nlaf081.
Online  ahead of print.

Stereotactic lesioning of cholinergic cells by injection of ME20.4 Saporin in 
the nucleus basalis of Meynert in a rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta).

Nazmuddin M(1)(2)(3), Stammes MA(4), Klink PC(5)(6), Vernes MK(4), Bakker J(4), 
Langermans JAM(4)(7), van Laar T(1), Philippens IHCHM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Groningen, University Medical Center 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Physiology and Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, 
Airlangga University, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(3)Faculty of Health, Medicine and Natural Sciences (FIKKIA), Airlangga 
University, Banyuwangi, Indonesia.
(4)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre (BPRC), 
Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Vision & Cognition, Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, 
Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts & Sciences, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Laboratory of Visual Brain Therapy, Sorbonne Université, Institut National de 
la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique, Institut de la Vision, Paris, France.
(7)Department Population Health Sciences, Animals in Science & Society, Faculty 
of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Cholinergic degeneration in the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) is clinically 
linked to cognitive impairment and gait dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease and 
Parkinson's disease. Modeling cholinergic degeneration in an animal model may 
provide powerful opportunities to study the clinical-physiological role of the 
NBM and lead to new therapies. We describe a procedure to inject ME20.4 Saporin, 
an immunotoxin that specifically binds to and depletes cholinergic neurons 
stereotactically into the NBM of a rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta). A digital 
non-human primate brain atlas was co-registered to the brain of the monkey. A 
custom-designed cranial chamber was also implanted to the skull to guide the 
injection. The effects of the ME20.4 Saporin injections were evaluated in vivo 
with PET-CT using [18F]-FEOBV as a radiotracer. This approach yielded reliable 
spatial accuracy and successful delivery of ME20.4 Saporin into the NBM. 
[18F]-FEOBV PET analyses revealed reduced radiotracer uptake in the NBM. 
Postmortem assessment showed a reduction of ME20.4-positive cells within the 
NBM. No clear effects on cognitive testing were observed. This Saporin-mediated 
selective destruction of cholinergic neurons in the NBM, using MRI-guidance and 
a cranial chamber, offers a promising method to study the pathophysiology of NBM 
degeneration and possible therapeutic interventions.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American 
Association of Neuropathologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlaf081
PMID: 40673943


46. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2025 Jul-Sep 01;39(3):151-157. doi: 
10.1097/WAD.0000000000000680. Epub 2025 Jul 17.

An Anti-tau Therapeutic Antibody Etalanetug (E2814): A Phase 1, First-in-human 
(FIH) Study of Single and Multiple Ascending Doses in Healthy Subjects.

Rawal S(1), Wildsmith KR(1), Aluri J(1), Yagi T(1), Chang MK(1), Niu H(1), Zhou 
J(1), Horie K(1)(2)(3), Takahashi E(4), Boyd P(5), Reyderman L(1).

Author information:
(1)Eisai Inc., Nutley, NJ.
(2)The Tracy Family SILQ Center, Washington University School of Medicine, St 
Louis, MO.
(3)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO.
(4)Eisai Co., Ltd., Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(5)Eisai Ltd., Hatfield, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Etalanetug (E2814), an anti-tau monoclonal antibody (mAb), is 
intended to inhibit spreading of pathologic tau species by binding to the 
microtubule binding region (MTBR). It is being developed as a potential 
disease-modifying therapy for Alzheimer disease.
METHODS: This randomized, placebo-controlled study comprised of 2 parts: single 
ascending doses evaluating 5 etalanetug doses and multiple ascending doses 
evaluating 4 fixed doses in each cohort, 8 healthy subjects were randomized 
(3:1) to single etalanetug dose or placebo. Safety, pharmacokinetics (PK), 
antidrug antibodies (ADA), and target engagement (TE) were assessed.
RESULTS: Etalanetug was safe and well-tolerated following single and multiple 
infusions. After single-dose and multiple-dose administration, serum exposure of 
etalanetug increased in a dose-related manner. Serum-to-cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) concentration ratio at week 12 was ∼0.1% to 0.3% and ∼1% following single 
and multiple dosing, respectively. Mean t ½ was ∼19 to 25 days independent of 
dose and time. etalanetug immunogenicity was minimal, with low titers and no 
impact on PK. TE was demonstrated; CSF concentrations of etalanetug between 100 
and 200 ng/mL saturated binding of MTBR-tau299 at 82.1% and binding of 
MTBR-tau354 at 64.9%.
CONCLUSION: Etalanetug presented an adequate safety and immunogenicity profile 
in healthy adults. PK was comparable to other mAbs. Etalanetug demonstrated 
target engagement by binding to MTBR tau species.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/WAD.0000000000000680
PMCID: PMC12360189
PMID: 40673737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors (S.R., K.R.W., J.A., T.Y., M.-K.C., 
H.N., J.Z., K.H., E.T., P.B., and L.R.) are employees of Eisai.


47. J Alzheimers Dis Rep. 2025 Jul 15;9:25424823251356597. doi: 
10.1177/25424823251356597. eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

Performance change while learning novel cognitive tasks as a potential 
identifier of preclinical Alzheimer's disease.

Hetrick LM(1), Chen H(2), Levin I(3), Lockhart SN(4), Miller ME(5), Laurienti 
PJ(6), Kritchevsky SB(4), Hugenschmidt CE(4), Zukowski LA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, High Point University, High Point, NC, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, Wake Forest University School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy, High Point University, High Point, NC, USA.
(4)Sticht Center for Healthy Aging and Alzheimer's Prevention, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Section on Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine, Wake Forest 
University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(5)Division of Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: In healthy older adults (OA), the effects of amyloid-β (Aβ) 
deposition on cognitive functions involved in learning are unclear.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine how age, practice, and 
neuropsychological test performance are associated with performance change 
during the learning of three cognitive tasks, and if Aβ deposition impacts 
performance change in OA.
METHODS: Fifty-five OA and 28 young adults completed neuropsychological tests, 
and Aβ deposition was assessed in OA. Participants learned three cognitive 
tasks: stop-go normal task (SGNT), stop-go reverse task (SGRT), and n-back task 
(NBT). Performance change was analyzed as change in accuracy and reaction time 
from the first to second and the first to third practice trials using linear 
mixed effect models. The basic model included age group and performance change, 
with neuropsychological test covariates. The second basic model mimicked the 
first but included Aβ deposition, instead of age group.
RESULTS: In the basic model, more practice resulted in a larger performance 
change for SGNT and SGRT, but not NBT. In the second basic model, after two NBT 
practice trials, performance change increased with greater amounts of Aβ 
deposition and worse information processing speed but, after three practice 
trials, decreased with greater amounts of Aβ deposition and worse information 
processing speed. Across the three tasks, greater Aβ deposition tended 
(non-significant trend) to be associated with smaller improvements after more 
practice.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the ability to learn a cognitive task is 
maintained with age but is negatively impacted by Aβ deposition.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/25424823251356597
PMCID: PMC12264413
PMID: 40673133


48. Front Public Health. 2025 Jul 2;13:1616404. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1616404. 
eCollection 2025.

Community health workers: developing roles in public health dementia efforts in 
the United States.

Johnson E(1)(2), Lewis M(3)(4), Nordyke A(5)(6), Lee M(5)(6)(7), Roberts 
S(3)(4), Gaugler JE(1)(2), Borson S(6)(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities, Minneapolis, 
MN, United States.
(2)BOLD Public Health Center of Excellence on Dementia Caregiving, School of 
Public Health, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities, Minneapolis, MN, United 
States.
(3)Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, IL, United States.
(4)BOLD Public Health Center of Excellence on Dementia Risk Reduction, 
Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, IL, United States.
(5)Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care, NYU Grossman School of 
Medicine, New York, NY, United States.
(6)BOLD Public Health Center of Excellence on Early Detection of Dementia, NYU 
Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States.
(7)Division of Health and Behavior, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, New York, 
NY, United States.
(8)Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, 
United States.

Community Health Workers (CHWs) are a growing part of the healthcare workforce. 
Trusted in their communities, CHWs can provide essential health education and 
connection with culturally responsive health and support resources and programs. 
Despite their demonstrated effectiveness in improving outcomes in other chronic 
diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, HIV, and pediatric asthma, CHWs have 
been underutilized in dementia-related efforts. Properly equipped with education 
and skills, CHWs can fill important gaps throughout the dementia care continuum, 
strengthening public health efforts to support people with dementia and their 
families, especially in populations at higher risk such as African American, 
Latino and American Indian/Alaska Native groups. We outline key roles CHWs can 
play throughout the continuum of dementia care, improving brain health and 
reducing dementia risk at all life stages, such as improving early detection of 
cognitive impairment and helping caregivers navigate the daily challenges of 
dementia care in the community setting. Finally, we highlight key actions public 
health can lead to support the development of a dementia-capable workforce 
nationwide.

Copyright © 2025 Johnson, Lewis, Nordyke, Lee, Roberts, Gaugler and Borson.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2025.1616404
PMCID: PMC12263905
PMID: 40672929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


49. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Jul 16;11(3):e70137. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70137. 
eCollection 2025 Jul-Sep.

Cognitive decline across five cognitive batteries: Sample size implications for 
clinical trials.

Zammit AR(1)(2), Capuano AW(1)(3), Barnes LL(1)(2)(3), Schneider JA(1)(3), 
Sperling RA(4), Bennett DA(1)(3), Grodstein F(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center Rush University Medical Center Chicago 
Illinois USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Rush University Medical 
Center Chicago Illinois USA.
(3)Department of Neurological Sciences Rush University Medical Center Chicago 
Illinois USA.
(4)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Massachusetts General Hospital Harvard Medical School Boston Massachusetts USA.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine Rush University Medical Center Chicago 
Illinois USA.

INTRODUCTION: We evaluated the statistical power for a theoretical randomized 
trial of anti-amyloid treatment in preclinical Alzheimer's Disease across five 
cognitive composites in preclinical Alzheimer's Disease across five cognitive 
composites: Alzheimer's Prevention Initiative Preclinical Composite Cognitive 
Test (APCC); Preclinical Alzheimer's Composite with Semantic Processing (PACC5); 
Preclinical Alzheimer's Cognitive Composite (PACC); and global and episodic 
memory composites.
METHODS: We utilized annual cognitive assessments from 517 decedents 
(78.2 ± 4.7years; 72% female) with post mortem pathologic Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) to represent amyloid positivity. We calculated sample sizes to detect 30% 
reduction in 5-year slopes of cognitive decline for equal size treatment versus 
placebo groups across composites.
RESULTS: Estimated sample sizes for APCC (n = 1633, 95% confidence interval [CI] 
1400-1823), PACC (n = 1822, 95% CI 1612-2122), and episodic memory (n = 3141 
95%CI 2563-3732) were larger than for PACC5 (n = 1424, 95% CI 1249-1575). Sample 
size estimates were similar between PACC5 and the global composite (n = 1267, 
95%CI 1336-1407).
DISCUSSION: Small changes in composites, such as addition of semantic fluency in 
PACC5, could be considered as part of approaches to improve statistical power.
HIGHLIGHTS: We evaluated statistical power of a theoretical 5-year randomized 
trial testing anti-amyloid treatments in early Alzheimer's across five cognitive 
composite endpoints.We leveraged annual cognitive assessment in Rush Alzheimer's 
Disease Center cohorts and used post mortem pathologic AD to represent amyloid 
positivity.Preclinical Alzheimer's Composite with Semantic Processing (PACC5) 
required significantly lower sample size to achieve power for a 30% reduction in 
cognitive slope than Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-Preclinical 
Alzheimer's Cognitive Composite (PACC).PACC5 had better statistical power than 
Alzheimer's Prevention Initiative Preclinical Composite Cognitive Test (APCC) 
and an episodic memory composite.Small changes in cognitive composites can 
improve detection of cognitive decline.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70137
PMCID: PMC12265016
PMID: 40672883

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts to declare.


50. Front Neurosci. 2025 Jul 2;19:1555657. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1555657. 
eCollection 2025.

A multi-graph convolutional network method for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis 
based on multi-frequency EEG data with dual-mode connectivity.

Xu Q(1)(2), An L(3), Yang H(1)(2), Hong KS(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Automation, Institute for Future, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 
China.
(2)Shandong Key Laboratory of Industrial Control Technology, Qingdao, China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Taishan Vocational College of Nursing, Taian, China.
(4)School of Mechanical Engineering, Pusan National University, Busan, Republic 
of Korea.

OBJECTIVE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is mainly identified by cognitive function 
deterioration. Diagnosing AD at early stages poses significant challenges for 
both researchers and healthcare professionals due to the subtle nature of early 
brain changes. Currently, electroencephalography (EEG) is widely used in the 
study of neurodegenerative diseases. However, most existing research relies 
solely on functional connectivity methods to infer inter-regional brain 
connectivity, overlooking the importance of spatial connections. Moreover, many 
existing approaches fail to fully integrate multi-frequency EEG features, 
limiting the comprehensive understanding of dynamic brain activity across 
different frequency bands. This study aims to address these limitations by 
developing a novel graph-based deep learning model that fully utilizes both 
functional and structural information from multi-frequency EEG data.
METHODS: This paper introduces a Multi-Frequency EEG data-based Multi-Graph 
Convolutional Network (MF-MGCN) model for AD diagnosis. This method integrates 
both functional and structural connectivity to more thoroughly capture the 
relationships among brain regions. By extracting differential entropy (DE) 
features from five distinct frequency bands of EEG signals for each segment and 
using graph convolutional networks (GCNs) to aggregate these features, the model 
effectively distinguishes between AD and healthy controls (HC).
RESULTS: The outcomes show that the developed model outperforms existing 
methods, achieving 96.15% accuracy and 98.74% AUC in AD and HC classification.
CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the potential of the MF-MGCN model as a 
clinical tool for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis. This approach could help 
clinicians detect Alzheimer's at earlier stages, enabling timely intervention 
and personalized treatment plans.

Copyright © 2025 Xu, An, Yang and Hong.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1555657
PMCID: PMC12263931
PMID: 40672873

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


51. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 10:2025.07.07.25331010. doi: 
10.1101/2025.07.07.25331010.

Relationship between BrainAge Polygenetic Risk Score and plasma biomarkers in 
the A4/LEARN studies.

Condado JG(1)(2)(3), Seto M(3), Cuppels M(3), Birkenbihl C(3), Klinger HM(3), 
Coughlan GT(3), Properzi MJ(3), Yang HS(4), Schultz AP(3), Chhatwal J(3), Rentz 
DM(4), Erramuzpe A(1)(5), Cortes JM(1)(5)(6), Johnson KA(3)(4), Sperling RA(4), 
Buckley RF(3)(4)(7), Diez I(1)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Computational Neuroimaging Lab, BioBizkaia Health Research Institute, 
Barakaldo, Spain.
(2)Biomedical Research Doctorate Program, University of the Basque Country 
(UPV/EHU), Leioa, Spain.
(3)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston MA, USA.
(4)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment (CART), Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston MA, USA.
(5)IKERBASQUE, the Basque Foundation for Science, Bilbao, Spain.
(6)Department of Cell Biology and Histology. University of the Basque 
Country(UPV/EHU), Leioa, Spain.
(7)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne VIC, Australia.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: To examine the association between genetic 
predisposition to accelerated brain aging-measured with polygenic risk scores 
(PRS) derived from BrainAge models-and plasma biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), with attention to age and sex-specific effects.
METHODS: We analyzed 1994 cognitively unimpaired participants from the A4/LEARN 
studies (71.5±4.8 years; 41% male). We computed the genetic risk of accelerated 
grey matter loss associated with age using GWAS data from previous studies. 
Baseline plasma biomarkers included pTau217 (N=980; Eli Lilly immunoassay), and 
GFAP and NfL (N=1636; Roche Elecsys immunoassay). General linear models tested 
associations between each PRS and each biomarker, including PRS-by-age 
interaction terms. Analyses were additionally stratified by sex.
RESULTS: BrainAge PRS moderated the association between age and pTau217 levels 
(β=0.08±0.03, p=0.0086), such that higher PRS for BrainAge was associated with 
increased pTau217 at older ages. Results were robust to covariates. This 
association was significant in females but not in males. No significant 
associations were found with GFAP or NfL.
DISCUSSION: Genetic risk for accelerated grey matter loss with aging is 
associated with elevated pTau217 levels in cognitively unimpaired older females. 
These findings suggest a sex- and age-specific genetic link between brain aging 
and early AD pathology.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.07.07.25331010
PMCID: PMC12265747
PMID: 40672513


52. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 11:2025.07.10.25331263. doi: 
10.1101/2025.07.10.25331263.

Multi-organ MRI digitizes biological aging clocks across proteomics, 
metabolomics, and genetics.

MULTI Consortium; Cao H(1), Song Z(1), Duggan MR(2), Erus G(3), Srinivasan D(3), 
Tian YE(4), Bai W(5), Rafii MS(6), Aisen P(6), Belsky DW(7), Walker KA(2), 
Zalesky A(4), Ferrucci L(8), Davatzikos C(3), Wen J(1)(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of AI and Biomedical Science (LABS), Columbia University, New 
York, NY, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, National 
Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Artificial Intelligence in Biomedical Imaging Laboratory (AIBIL), Center for 
AI and Data Science for Integrated Diagnostics (AID), Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Systems Lab, Department of Psychiatry, Melbourne Medical School, The 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(5)Department of Brain Sciences and Department of Computing, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(6)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine of the 
University of Southern California, San Diego, CA 92121, USA.
(7)Robert N Butler Columbia Aging Center and Department of Epidemiology, 
Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, NY, USA.
(8)National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.
(9)Center for Innovation in Imaging Biomarkers and Integrated Diagnostics 
(CIMBID), Department of Radiology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(10)Department of Radiology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(11)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, NY, 
USA.
(12)Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(13)New York Genome Center (NYGC), New York, NY, USA.
(14)Data Science Institute (DSI), Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.

Leveraging clinical phenotypes1,2, neuroimaging3, proteomics4, metabolomics5, 
and epigenetics6, biological aging clocks across organ systems and tissues have 
advanced our understanding of human aging and disease. In this study, we expand 
this biological aging clock framework to multi-organ magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) by developing 7 organ-specific MRI-based biological age gaps (MRIBAGs), 
including the brain, heart, liver, adipose tissue, spleen, kidney, and pancreas. 
Leveraging imaging, genetic, proteomic, and metabolomic data from 313,645 
individuals curated by the MULTI consortium, we link the 7 MRIBAGs to 2,923 
plasma proteins, 327 metabolites, and 6,477,810 common genetic variants. These 
associations reveal organ-specific and cross-organ interconnection landscapes, 
identifying distinct molecular signatures related to organ aging. Genome-wide 
associations identify 53 MRIBAG-locus pairs (P<5×10-8). Genetic correlation and 
Mendelian randomization analyses further support organ-specific and cross-organ 
interconnections with 9 phenotype-based1,2, 11 proteome-based7, and 5 
metabolome-based aging clocks5, as well as 525 disease endpoints. Through 
functional gene mapping and Bayesian colocalization analysis linking evidence 
from genetics, proteomics, and metabolomics, we prioritize 9 druggable genes as 
targets for future anti-aging treatments. Finally, we demonstrate the clinical 
relevance of the 7 MRIBAGs in predicting disease endpoints (e.g., diabetes 
mellitus), all-cause mortality, and capturing differential and heterogeneous 
cognitive decline trajectories over 240 weeks of treatment with the Alzheimer's 
disease drug (Solanezumab). Sex differences are evident across multiple organ 
systems, manifesting at structural, molecular, and genetic levels. In summary, 
we developed 7 MRI-based aging clocks that enhance the existing multi-organ 
biological aging framework, offer multi-scale insights into aging biology, and 
demonstrate clinical potential to advance future aging research.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.07.10.25331263
PMCID: PMC12265779
PMID: 40672508

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests B.W.D. is an inventor of the 
DunedinPACE epigenetic clock, which is licensed by Duke University and the 
University of Otago to TruDiagnostic, from which he receives royalties 
(DunedinPACE is freely available to researchers). All other authors declare no 
competing interests.


53. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 11:2025.07.10.25331312. doi: 
10.1101/2025.07.10.25331312.

Plasma biomarkers, brain amyloid pathology, and cortical thickness in a diverse 
middle-aged community cohort: the HCP-CoBRA study.

Brodman ST(1), Heaton N(2), Triana-Baltzer G(3), Zeng X(1)(4)(5), Gogola A(6), 
Kamboh MI(7), Villemagne VL(1)(4), Lopez OL(5), Kolb H(3), Deek RA(2), Cohen 
AD(1)(4), Karikari TK(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics and Health Data Science, School of Public Health, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
(3)Neuroscience Biomarkers, Janssen Research & Development, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(4)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh PA 
15213, USA.
(5)Biofluid Biomarker Laboratory, Western Psychiatric Hospital, University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh PA 15213, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
(7)Department of Human Genetics, School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, 15261, USA.

INTRODUCTION: We evaluated plasma biomarker association with, and classification 
accuracies for, Aβ-PET and cortical thickness in the biracial HCP-CoBRA cohort 
(53% B/AA and 47% NHW).
METHODS: In n=218 participants (age 62 [range: 57-71] years, 65% female and 15% 
Aβ PET-positive), plasma biomarkers (p-tau181, p-tau217, p-tau231, GFAP, NfL, 
Aβ42/Aβ40) were compared to Aβ-PET and MRI neuroimaging indicators.
RESULTS: P-tau217 (Janssen and ALZpath [AUCs=0.915-0.919]) had high sensitivity 
and specificity (>85%) for Aβ-PET status. All biomarkers except p-tau231 ruled 
out Aβ-pathology (NPV>95%) but only Janssen p-tau217+ was good for confirmation 
(PPV=0.909). Plasma biomarkers performed poorly for predicting cortical 
thickness but were elevated according to joint Aβ-PET-neurodegeneration 
profiles. Biomarker accuracies for Aβ-PET positivity were unaffected by 
self-identified race, except ALZpath p-tau217(p=0.024). However, correlations 
with Aβ-PET varied by self-identified race.
DISCUSSION: P-tau217 is a promising tool for Alzheimer's disease-related Aβ 
pathology in older/middle-aged individuals. However, apparent race-related 
performances should be further studied.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.07.10.25331312
PMCID: PMC12265788
PMID: 40672486

Conflict of interest statement: GTB and HK are employees of Janssen Research and 
Development. The plasma p-tau217+ measurements were performed at Quanterix, and 
managed by Janssen Research and Development, but both parties were blinded to 
sample ID and were not involved in the data analysis. The co-authors employed by 
Janssen provided comments on the manuscript and provided approval for submission 
of the manuscript. XZ is an inventor on University of Pittsburgh provisional 
patents on anti-tau antibodies and plasma amyloid-beta peptide biomarker assays 
by immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry. TKK has consulted for Quanterix 
Corporation, SpearBio Inc., Neurogen Biomarking LLC., and Alzheon, has served on 
advisory boards for Siemens Healthineers and Neurogen Biomarking LLC., outside 
the submitted work. He has received in-kind research support from Janssen 
Research Laboratories, SpearBio Inc., and Alamar Biosciences, as well as meeting 
travel support from the Alzheimer’s Association and Neurogen Biomarking LLC., 
outside the submitted work. TKK has received royalties from Bioventix for the 
transfer of specific antibodies and assays to third party organizations. He has 
received honoraria for speaker/grant review engagements from the NIH, UPENN, 
UW-Madison, the Cherry Blossom symposium, the HABS-HD/ADNI4 Health Enhancement 
Scientific Program, Advent Health Translational Research Institute, Brain Health 
conference, Barcelona-Pittsburgh conference, the International 
Neuropsychological Society, the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai and the 
Quebec Center for Drug Discovery, Canada, all outside of the submitted work. TKK 
serves/has served as a guest editor and editorial board member for npj Dementia, 
as an invited member of the World Health Organization committee to develop 
preferred product characteristics for blood-based biomarker diagnostics for 
Alzheimer’s disease, as an executive committee member for the Human Amyloid 
Imaging (HAI) conference, as an elected member of the NACC ADRCs Steering 
Committee, as co-director of the NACC ADRCs Biofluid Biomarker Working Group, 
and as a member of the Alzheimer’s Association committees to develop Appropriate 
Use Criteria for clinical use of blood-based biomarkers, and treatment related 
amyloid clearance. TKK is an inventor on several patents and provisional patents 
regarding biofluid biomarker methods, targets and reagents/compositions, that 
may generate income for the institution and/or self should they be licensed 
and/or transferred to another organization. These include WO2020193500A1: Use of 
a ps396 assay to diagnose tauopathies; 63/679,361: Methods to Evaluate 
Early-Stage Pre-Tangle TAU Aggregates and Treatment of Alzheimer’s Disease 
Patients; 63/672,952: Method for the Quantification of Plasma Amyloid-Beta 
Biomarkers in Alzheimer’s Disease; 63/693,956: Anti-tau Protein Antigen Binding 
Reagents; and 2450702-2: Detection of oligomeric tau and soluble tau aggregates. 
The other authors report no conflict of interest.


54. Front Neurol. 2025 Jul 2;16:1615457. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1615457. 
eCollection 2025.

Synergistic effects of surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy and enzyme-linked 
immunoassays in diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment, and 
late-life depression.

Mei X(1)(2), Zhao Z(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2), Qiu C(1), Li L(1)(2), Xiong C(3), Zhu 
S(3), Zheng C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Affiliated Kangning Hospital of Ningbo University, 
Ningbo, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Ningbo Kangning Hospital, Ningbo, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Medical Department, Research Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering, 
Ningbo University, Ningbo, Zhejiang, China.

BACKGROUND: Objective tests that can be used to identify neurodegenerative 
diseases and neuropsychiatric disorders are urgently needed. The primary 
objective of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of 
surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS), a novel blood-based detection 
method, in differentiating neurodegenerative diseases and neuropsychiatric 
disorders. Additionally, we aim to assess the synergistic diagnostic performance 
of combining SERS with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technology for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and late-life 
depression (LLD).
METHODS: In total, 23 patients with AD, 24 with MCI, 20 with LLD, and 20 
cognitively normal (control) individuals were enrolled. ELISA and SERS were used 
to test various biomarkers in the AD, MCI, LLD, and control groups.
RESULTS: Amyloid-β, tau, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, proinflammatory 
cytokine IL-1β, and growth differentiation factor-15 levels as measured using 
ELISA significantly differed among the four groups (P < 0.05). SERS peaks at 592 
(P = 0.038), 725 (P = 0.001), 1,003 (P = 0.010), 1,331 (P = 0.000), and 165 cm-1 
(P = 0.000) likewise significantly differed among the four groups. The area 
under the curve was significantly higher after combining multiple blood 
indicators than that with single-blood indicators.
CONCLUSIONS: Combining SERS and ELISA can significantly increase diagnostic 
accuracy for AD, MCI, and LLD. The findings are expected to provide potential 
therapeutic targets for precise intervention in these diseases, thereby 
contributing to improved clinical stratification and personalized treatment 
strategies.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRY NUMBER: ChiCTR2300076307 (30/09/2023).

Copyright © 2025 Mei, Zhao, Wang, Qiu, Li, Xiong, Zhu and Zheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1615457
PMCID: PMC12263916
PMID: 40672452

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


55. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 8:2025.06.25.661453. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.25.661453.

Autophagy activators normalize aberrant Tau proteostasis and rescue synapses in 
human familial Alzheimer's disease iPSC-derived cortical organoids.

Labra SR(1)(2)(3), Compher J(1)(2), Prabhavalkar A(1)(2)(3), Almaraz M(1)(2)(3), 
Kwong CC(1)(3), Baal C(1)(2), Talantova M(1)(2), Dolatabadi N(1)(2), Piña-Sanz 
J(1)(2)(3), Wang Y(1)(2), Yoon L(1)(3), Ghatak S(1)(2)(4), Gao Z(1)(3), Zhang 
Y(1)(3), Trudler D(1)(2), Massey L(1)(3), Lin W(5), Balistreri A(1)(3), Bula 
M(1)(2), Schork NJ(5), Mondala TS(6), Head SR(6), Kelly JW(1)(3), Lipton 
SA(1)(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)Neurodegeneration New Medicines Center, The Scripps Research Institute, La 
Jolla, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, 
La Jolla, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, National Institute of Science Education and 
Research, Bhubaneswar, India.
(5)Translational Genomics Research Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(6)Genomics Core, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(7)Lead contact: S.A.L.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia worldwide. Despite 
extensive progress, the cellular and molecular mechanisms of AD remain 
incompletely understood, partially due to inadequate disease models. To 
illuminate the earliest changes in hereditary (familial) Alzheimer's disease, we 
developed an isogenic AD cerebrocortical organoid (CO) model. Our refined 
methodology produces COs containing excitatory and inhibitory neurons alongside 
glial cells, utilizing established isogenic wild-type and diseased human induced 
pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) carrying heterozygous familial AD mutations, 
namely PSEN1ΔE9/WT, PSEN1M146V/WT, or APPswe/WT. Our CO model reveals 
time-progressive accumulation of amyloid beta (Aβ) species, loss of monomeric 
Tau, and accumulation of aggregated high-molecular-weight (HMW) phospho(p)-Tau 
species. This is accompanied by neuronal hyperexcitability, as observed in early 
human AD cases on electroencephalography (EEG), and synapse loss. Single-cell 
RNA-sequencing analyses reveal significant differences in molecular 
abnormalities in excitatory vs. inhibitory neurons, helping explain AD clinical 
phenotypes. Finally, we show that chronic dosing with autophagy activators, 
including a novel CNS-penetrant mTOR inhibitor-independent drug candidate, 
normalizes pathologic accumulation of Aβ and HMW p-Tau, normalizes 
hyperexcitability, and rescues synaptic loss in COs. Collectively, our results 
demonstrate these COs are a useful human AD model suitable for assessing early 
features of familial AD etiology and for testing drug candidates that ameliorate 
or prevent molecular AD phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.25.661453
PMCID: PMC12265565
PMID: 40672178

Conflict of interest statement: DECLARATION OF INTERESTS J.W.K. discloses that 
he receives royalties for Tafamidis sales as an inventor and has received 
additional payments from Pfizer. J.W.K is a founder and major shareholder of 
Protego, which is developing immunoglobulin light chain kinetic stabilizers and 
other stabilizers for misfolding diseases; he serves on its Board of Directors 
and Scientific Advisory Board and acts as a consultant. He serves as a 
consultant for the Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network Trial Unit in 
reviewing drug candidates. S.A.L discloses that he is an inventor on worldwide 
patents for the use of memantine and NitroSynapsin (aka NitroMemantine, YQW-036, 
or EM-036) for neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental disorders. Per Harvard 
University guidelines, S.A.L. participates in a royalty-sharing agreement with 
his former institution Boston Children’s Hospital/Harvard Medical School, which 
licensed the drug memantine (Namenda®) to Forest Laboratories, 
Inc./Actavis/Allergan/AbbVie. S.A.L. was scientific founder of Adamas 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (now owned by Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), which 
developed or comarketed FDA-approved forms of memantine- or 
amantadine-containing drugs (NamendaXR®, Namzaric®, and GoCovri®). NitroSynapsin 
is licensed to the biotechnology company EuMentis Therapeutics, Inc., for which 
SAL is scientific founder and chair of the Scientific Advisory Board (SAB). SAL 
is also a member of the SAB of Point 6 Bio. Ltd., and has recently served as a 
consultant to Circumvent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Further, SAL discloses that he is 
a named inventor on patent(s) filed by his current institution, The Scripps 
Research Institute, for novel MEF2 and NRF2 transcriptional activators in the 
treatment of systemic and nervous system diseases via neuroprotective, 
anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant actions


56. Cureus. 2025 Jun 15;17(6):e86086. doi: 10.7759/cureus.86086. eCollection 2025
 Jun.

The Impact of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus on the Severity of Alzheimer's Disease in 
Hispanic Populations in the Rio Grande Valley: A Pilot Retrospective Chart 
Review.

Gonzalez Tovar MC(1), Salinas D(2), Baker K(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurology, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley School of Medicine, 
Edinburg, USA.
(2)Neurology, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley School of Medicine, 
Harlingen, USA.
(3)Neuroscience, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley School of Medicine, 
Edinburg, USA.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is becoming more prevalent worldwide, 
leading to a growing demand to understand the impact of risk factors on disease 
progression. Notably, type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) has emerged as a significant 
risk factor for the development of AD, given the pathophysiological role of 
insulin resistance in cognitive impairment. In particular, the impact of type 2 
DM on AD development and severity may be heightened in Hispanic populations due 
to the high prevalence of both conditions in this community. Here, we sought to 
understand the role of type 2 DM in AD severity in a Hispanic population from 
the Rio Grande Valley (RGV), a community wherein 91% of the population 
identifies as Hispanic.
METHODS: We conducted a pilot retrospective chart review from January 2018 to 
March 2024 at UTHealth RGV for patients with AD who self-identified as Hispanic, 
Mexican, or Latino. Medical charts were evaluated for a diagnosis of type 2 DM, 
and demographics were recorded. We categorized the included charts into two 
groups: AD with DM and AD without DM. For all charts, the Global Deterioration 
Scale (GDS) score was manually determined from the electronic medical record. 
T-tests were used to evaluate differences between the two groups.
RESULTS: Forty patients met the inclusion criteria for our study. Eleven medical 
charts were excluded (72.5% analysis rate) due to insufficient documentation for 
GDS scoring. No significant differences were found in baseline demographics 
between the AD with DM and AD without DM groups. GDS scores were not 
statistically different between groups (p = 0.152), although a medium effect 
size was observed (d = 0.52, 95% CI (-0.18, 1.23)), with higher GDS scores in 
the AD with DM group.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest a trend toward more severe AD in Hispanic 
patients with type 2 DM. Based on these results, we recommend the development of 
standardized assessment tools for AD, particularly for use in small community 
clinics, to improve the evaluation of disease progression. Improved clinical 
documentation and assessment may help identify risk factors that allow for 
earlier diagnosis or preventive interventions.

Copyright © 2025, Gonzalez Tovar et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.86086
PMCID: PMC12263342
PMID: 40672003

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. University of Texas Rio Grande Valley issued approval IRB-21-0070. Animal 
subjects: All authors have confirmed that this study did not involve animal 
subjects or tissue. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform 
disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All 
authors have declared that no financial support was received from any 
organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have 
declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the 
previous three years with any organizations that might have an interest in the 
submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared that there are no 
other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the 
submitted work.


57. Health Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 15;8(7):e71065. doi: 10.1002/hsr2.71065. eCollection
 2025 Jul.

Incretin-Based Therapies in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Disease: Advancing 
Neuroprotection With Dual and Triple Agonists-A Review.

Mohammed O(1)(2), Kelemu T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry, School of Medicine, College of Health 
Sciences Addis Ababa University Addis Ababa Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, College of Medicine and Health 
Sciences Wollo University Dessie Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are 
progressive neurodegenerative disorders with significant cognitive and motor 
impairments, affecting millions globally. Current treatments offer limited 
efficacy, prompting the exploration of new therapeutic approaches.
AIM: To discuss the intricate relationship between incretin and insulin 
signaling pathways and their relevance to the pathogenesis and treatment of 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature review was conducted using a variety of 
search engines, including Google Scholar, PubMed Central, Scopus, Web of 
Science, and others.
RESULTS: Emerging evidence highlights disrupted insulin signaling in AD and, to 
a lesser extent, in PD, suggesting that insulin plays a key neuroprotective 
role. Incretins, such as GLP-1 and GIP, which enhance insulin signaling, have 
shown potential in preclinical and clinical studies. Incretin-based therapies, 
particularly GLP-1/GIP receptor agonists, have demonstrated promising effects by 
addressing several pathological processes, including oxidative stress, 
inflammation, misfolded protein aggregation, and insulin resistance. Dual 
agonists like DA-CH3, DA5-CH, and DA4-JC have proven superior in crossing the 
blood-brain barrier and offering improved neuroprotection in comparison with 
conventional GLP-1 agonists. Triple agonists provide even greater 
neuroprotective benefits, highlighting their potential as disease-modifying 
therapies for AD and PD.
CONCLUSION: While GLP-1 and GIP analogs hold promise in modulating early 
neurodegenerative processes, their efficacy likely depends on timely 
intervention before permanent neuronal damage occurs.

© 2025 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hsr2.71065
PMCID: PMC12264087
PMID: 40671844

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


58. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Jul 8:rs.3.rs-7015694. doi:
10.21203/rs.3.rs-7015694/v1.

Revisiting Centiloids using AI.

Bourgeat P(1), Fripp J(1), Lebrat L(2), Xia Y(3), Feizpour A(4), Cox T(1), Zisis 
G(4), Gillman A(1), Goyal M(5), Tosun D(6), Benzinger T(7), LaMontagne P(8), 
Breakspear M(9), Lupton M(10), Short C(11), Adam R(12), Robertson J(4), Sperling 
R(13), O'Bryant S(14), Johnson S(15), Jack C Jr(16), Schwarz C(16), Park DC(17), 
Barkhof F(18), Farrar G(19), Bollack A(19), Collij L(20), Landau S(21), Koeppe 
R(22), Morris J(23), Weiner M(24), Villemagne V(25), Masters C(26), Rowe C(27), 
Doré V(27).

Author information:
(1)CSIRO.
(2)Queensland University of Technology.
(3)The Australian e-Health Research Centre, CSIRO Health and Biosecurity.
(4)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health.
(5)Washington University School of Medicine.
(6)University of California, San Francisco.
(7)Washington University in St. Louis.
(8)Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Washington University School of 
Medicine.
(9)University of Newcastle.
(10)QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute.
(11)Central Adelaide Local Health Network Memory Service and Memory Clinical 
Trials.
(12)University of Queensland.
(13)Harvard Aging Brain Study, Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02114;Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, 
Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's.
(14)University of North Texas Health Science Center.
(15)wisc.
(16)Mayo Clinic.
(17)University of Texas, Dallas.
(18)VU University Medical Center.
(19)GE HealthCare.
(20)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(21)University of California Berkeley.
(22)University of Michigan.
(23)Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center.
(24)University of California-San Francisco.
(25)University of Pittsburgh.
(26)florey.
(27)Austin Health.

The Centiloid scale is the standard for Amyloid (Aβ) PET quantification, widely 
used in research, clinical settings, and trial stratification. However, 
variability between tracers and scanners remains a challenge. This study 
introduces DeepSUVR, a deep learning method to correct Centiloid quantification, 
by penalising implausible longitudinal trajectories during training. The model 
was trained using data from 2,098 participants (6,762 Aβ PET scans) in AIBL/ADNI 
and validated using 15,806 Aβ PET scans from 10,543 participants across 10 
external datasets. DeepSUVR increased correlation between tracers, and reduced 
variability in the Aβ -negatives. It showed the strongest association with 
cognition, highest AUC against visual reads and best longitudinal consistency 
between studies. DeepSUVR also increased the effect size for detecting lower 
Centiloid increase per year in the A4 study. DeepSUVR advances Aβ PET 
quantification, outperforming standard approaches, which is particularly 
important for consistent decision making and to detect subtle and early changes 
in clinical interventions.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-7015694/v1
PMCID: PMC12265171
PMID: 40671806

Conflict of interest statement: Additional Declarations: Yes there is potential 
Competing Interest. I am an inventor on a patent application related to the 
technology described in the manuscript: PCT/AU2024/051378.


59. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Jul 2;17:1579373. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1579373.
 eCollection 2025.

Research hotspots and frontiers of glymphatic system and Alzheimer's disease: a 
bibliometrics analysis.

Liu S(#)(1), Zhuang L(#)(2), Li X(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, 
China.
(2)Fujian Key Laboratory of Molecular Neurology and Institute of Neuroscience, 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(3)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: As a predominant neurodegenerative disorder, Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) has garnered increasing attention regarding the association between its 
pathological mechanisms and glymphatic system (GS) dysfunction.
OBJECTIVE: This study employs bibliometric methods to systematically analyze the 
evolutionary trajectory and emerging frontiers of GS-AD research from 2010 to 
2025, aiming to provide insights for clinical applications and scientific 
research.
METHODS: A total of 595 articles were selected from the Web of Science Core 
Collection. Knowledge mapping was constructed using tools such as CiteSpace and 
RStudio to analyze country/institutional collaboration networks, co-cited 
references, and keyword clustering.
RESULTS: Over the past decade, publication output in this field has demonstrated 
exponential growth. The United States maintains academic dominance, with the 
University of Rochester and the Nedergaard team serving as central research 
forces. While China ranks second in publication volume, its international 
influence requires further enhancement. High-frequency keyword analysis revealed 
three major research directions: anatomical mechanisms of the GS, (cerebrospinal 
fluid-interstitial fluid exchange, Aquaporin-4 polarization regulation), 
pathophysiological associations (amyloid-β/tau clearance, sleep-aging 
interactions), and clinical translational potential (diffusion tensor image 
analysis along the perivascular space (DTI-ALPS) imaging biomarkers, targeted 
intervention strategies). Co-citation analysis indicated that foundational 
studies by Iliff Jeffrey J and Nedergaard Maiken continue to guide the field, 
while recent research hotspots concentrate on glymphatic function assessment 
technologies and cross-disease mechanistic investigations.
CONCLUSION: GS research is transitioning from fundamental mechanisms to clinical 
diagnostics and therapeutics. Future advancements necessitate the integration of 
multimodal imaging technologies and interdisciplinary collaboration to 
facilitate early AD diagnosis and therapeutic target development. This study 
represents the first systematic construction of a knowledge framework for this 
field, providing theoretical foundations for optimizing research strategies and 
translational pathways.

Copyright © 2025 Liu, Zhuang and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1579373
PMCID: PMC12263927
PMID: 40671785

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


60. CNS Spectr. 2025 Jul 17;30(1):e55. doi: 10.1017/S1092852925100424.

From betel nuts to Cobenfy: how an ancient recreational drug gave rise to a new 
class of schizophrenia medications.

Creeden JF(1), Machiraju SM(1), Amin JB(1), Stahl SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, https://ror.org/0168r3w48University of California 
San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA.

The term "betel" most accurately refers to the betel pepper (Piper betle). 
Confusingly, this term is also frequently used to refer to a street drug that 
often-but not always-includes the betel leaf as a constituent. This linguistic 
misdirection only intensifies with terms such as "betel nut," which, in common 
usage, may refer to this same composite street drug or to a single isolated 
constituent of that street drug: the nut of the areca palm (Areca catechu), 
which is otherwise wholly unrelated to the betel pepper. This composite street 
drug, colloquially referred to as "betel" or "betel nut" or "betel quid," is one 
of the most frequently used psychoactive substances in the world. It carries a 
cultural legacy spanning over 10,000 years and a current user base numbering in 
the hundreds of millions. Its primary psychoactive constituent is arecoline, a 
well-established parasympathomimetic agent. Early studies exploring arecoline's 
ability to modulate cholinergic signaling pathways and exert therapeutic 
psychiatric effects on conditions such as Alzheimer's disease were initially 
mired by intolerable parasympathetic side effects. Indeed, over the course of 
its long history, various hints regarding the therapeutic utility of arecoline 
have been obfuscated by a variety of challenges which have only recently been 
overcome. Now, developments in psychopharmacology and our growing understanding 
of neurochemical brain circuitry have unlocked a new mechanism of action by 
which arecoline-derived medications interact with dopaminergic processes to 
improve outcomes for schizophrenia patients. One such medication, 
xanomeline-trospium (Cobenfy), has emerged as the first such agent to receive 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for the treatment of 
schizophrenia and represents an entirely new class of pro-cholinergic medication 
within the field of psychiatry. Many in the field believe that this heralds the 
beginning of a new era of psychopharmacology: the era of muscarinic agonism. 
This article briefly described the fascinating journey from ancient betel nuts 
to modern muscarinic therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1017/S1092852925100424
PMID: 40671308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.2174/0115672050399031250623062112. 
Online ahead of print.

Effective Analysis of Alzheimer's Disease and Mechanisms of Methyl-4- 
Hydroxybenzoate using Network Toxicology, Molecular Docking, and Machine 
Learning Strategies.

Wen J(1), Hu J(1), Yang X(1)(2), Luo F(1), Zou G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Jiangxi University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanchang, China.
(2)Affiliated Hospital of Jiangxi University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Nanchang, China.

INTRODUCTION: Nowadays, the large increase in environmental pollutants has led 
to the occurrence and development of an increasing number of diseases. Studies 
have shown that exposure to environmental pollutants, such as 
methyl-4-hydroxybenzoate (MEP) may lead to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, 
the purpose of this study was to elucidate the complex effects and potential 
molecular mechanisms of environmental pollutants MEP on AD.
METHODS: Through exhaustive exploration of databases, such as ChEMBL, STITCH, 
SwissTarget- Prediction, and Gene Expression Omnibus DataSets (GEO DataSets), we 
have identified a comprehensive list of 46 potential targets closely related to 
MEP and AD. After rigorous screening using the STRING platform and Cytoscape 
software, we narrowed the list to nine candidate targets and ultimately 
identified six hub targets using three proven machine learning methods (LASSO, 
RF, and SVM): CREBBP, BCL6, CXCR4, GRIN1, GOT2, and ITGA5. The "clusterProfiler" 
R package was used to conduct GO and KEGG enrichment analysis. At the same time, 
we also constructed disease prediction models for core genes. At last, six hub 
targets were executed molecular docking.
RESULTS: We derived 46 key target genes related to MEP and AD and conducted gene 
ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway 
analysis. MEP might play a role in AD by affecting the pathways of neuroactive 
ligand-receptor interaction. Nine genes were screened as pivotal targets, 
followed by machine learning methods to identify six hub targets. Molecular 
docking analysis showed a good binding ability between MEP and CREBBP, BCL6, 
CXCR4, GRIN1, GOT2 and ITGA5. In addition, changes in the immune 
microenvironment revealed a significant impact of immune status on AD.
DISCUSSIONS: This study revealed that MEP may induce AD through multiple 
mechanisms, such as oxidative stress, neurotoxicity, and immune regulation, and 
identified six core targets (CREBBP, BCL6, etc.) and found that they are related 
to changes in the immune microenvironment, such as T cells and B cells, 
providing new molecular targets for AD intervention.
CONCLUSION: Overall, CREBBP, BCL6, CXCR4, GRIN1, GOT2, and ITGA5 have been 
identified as the crucial targets correlating with AD. Our findings provide a 
theoretical framework for understanding the complex molecular mechanisms 
underlying the effects of MEP on AD and provide insights for the development of 
prevention and treatment of AD caused by exposure to MEP.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050399031250623062112
PMID: 40671224


62. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 15;17(1):163. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01811-w.

A novel biochemical analysis for ApoE4 quantification in plasma and 
discrimination of homozygous and heterozygous APOE ε4 carriers.

Rodríguez A(#)(1), Calero O(#)(2)(3), Veiga S(1), Menacho-Román M(4)(5), Arribas 
I(4)(5), Cano L(6), García-Ribas G(7)(8), Calero M(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Biocross S.L, Valladolid, Spain.
(2)Chronic Disease Programme (UFIEC), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Service of Clinical Biochemistry, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, Madrid, 
Spain.
(5)Institute Ramón y Cajal for Health Research (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain.
(6)Linear Chemicals, S.L.U, Montgat, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Institute Ramón y Cajal for Health Research (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain. 
ggribas@salud.madrid.org.
(8)Department of Neurology, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, Spain. 
ggribas@salud.madrid.org.
(9)Chronic Disease Programme (UFIEC), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain. mcalero@isciii.es.
(10)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. mcalero@isciii.es.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The APOE ε4 allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for 
late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is associated with increased risk of 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) during anti-amyloid therapy. 
Accurate identification of ε4 carriers, particularly APOE ε4/ε4 individuals, is 
clinically relevant. This study outlines the development and validation of 
e4Quant, a novel turbidimetric assay for quantifying plasma ApoE4 as a 
non-genetic alternative to APOE genotyping.
METHODS: The e4Quant test utilizes a proprietary particle-enhanced 
immunoturbidimetry method, employing an isoform-specific anti-ApoE4 antibody on 
standard chemistry analyzers. Plasma samples from 160 individuals of known APOE 
genotype (35 APOE ε4/ε4 homozygotes, 115 APOE ε4 heterozygotes, and 10 APOE ε4 
non-carriers) were analyzed for ApoE4 and total ApoE levels. The test's 
discriminatory performance was assessed by ROC analysis and two-threshold 
classification algorithms.
RESULTS: ApoE4 levels ascertained by the e4Quant test exhibited clear 
genotype-dependent stratification. ROC analysis indicated 100% sensitivity and 
specificity in distinguishing APOE ε4 carriers from non-carriers, and 88.6% 
sensitivity and 90.4% specificity for discriminating homozygous from 
heterozygous carriers. Normalizing ApoE4 to total ApoE improved classification 
(sensitivity 94.3%, specificity 93.9%). A combined ratio-plus-concentration 
approach further enhanced discrimination (sensitivity 91.4%, specificity 100%). 
Three ε4 homozygous samples with low ApoE4/total ApoE ratios were misclassified.
DISCUSSION: The e4Quant assay offers a rapid, cost-effective, and highly 
accurate biochemical alternative to APOE genotyping, suitable for clinical and 
research settings, particularly in assessing AD risk and optimizing anti-amyloid 
therapeutic strategies. One subgroup of APOE ε4/ε4 subjects had unexpectedly low 
ApoE4 levels, raising questions about potential biological heterogeneity and its 
impact on Alzheimer's disease biology.
CONCLUSION: The e4Quant assay is a novel alternative for genotyping to determine 
APOE ε4 carrier status, while also providing quantitative measurements of ApoE4 
levels. Its high diagnostic accuracy, ease of use in standard clinical 
laboratories, and potential utility for personalized medicine in AD treatment 
highlight its translational value. Further studies are warranted to investigate 
the clinical significance of APOE ε4 expression variability and its impact on 
disease progression and treatment response.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01811-w
PMCID: PMC12265242
PMID: 40671162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Samples were provided by Fundación ACE within the context of the 
project entitled: “Estudio de correlación de la concentración plasmática de 
ApoE4 y la concentración de Aβ42, Tau y p-Tau en el líquido cefalorraquídeo”. 
(Code: MED-FACE-2020-03). The study was approved by the Clinical Investigation 
Ethics Committee at Santa Creu i Sant Pau Hospital, Barcelona, Spain. Competing 
interests: This work was supported by Biocross SL, which participated in the 
acquisition of data, study supervision, and approval of data generated by the 
outsourced company, Linear Chemicals. Biocross SL participated in the study 
design, in the collection, analysis, and interpretation of data, in the writing 
of the report, and in the decision to submit the report for publication.M.C. is 
one of the co-founders of Biocross SL and owns stock options from the company. 
A.R.M. and S.V. are employees of Biocross SL. A.R.M, O.C. and M.C. participate 
in the European patent application EP 16 794 966.8-1111, entitled METHODS FOR 
APOLIPOPROTEIN DETECTION, which is directly related to this work and was granted 
by the European Patent Agency on 09th January 2019.


63. J Inflamm (Lond). 2025 Jul 16;22(1):28. doi: 10.1186/s12950-025-00455-9.

Verteporfin attenuates NLRP3 inflammasome activation to alleviate gout arthritis 
flares.

Shippy DC(1), Ulland TK(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, School of Medicine and 
Public Health, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, School of Medicine and 
Public Health, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA. tulland@wisc.edu.
(3)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA. tulland@wisc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Gout arthritis (GA) is an inflammatory disorder characterized by the 
deposition of monosodium urate (MSU) crystals within synovial joints due to 
increased urate concentrations in the body. The NLRP3 inflammasome drives a 
majority of the inflammatory response to MSU crystals; therefore, we hypothesize 
pharmaceutical agents that attenuate NLRP3 inflammasome activation could be used 
to treat GA flares.
RESULTS: We screened a drug library containing 875 FDA-approved drugs and 
identified five drugs that reduced NLRP3 inflammasome activation without causing 
cytotoxic effects in bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM). The best performing 
and therefore leading candidate, verteporfin, used to treat macular degeneration 
and other eye disorders, reduced Nlrp3- and Caspase-1-dependent IL-1β and IL-18 
secretion by BMDM. Additionally, verteporfin-treated mice showed a marked 
reduction in paw swelling and pro-inflammatory cytokine/chemokine induction, 
including inflammasome markers (IL-1β and IL-18), in a MSU-induced mouse model 
of GA flares.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, these data suggest verteporfin is a NLRP3 inflammasome 
inhibitor that could be repurposed as a treatment for GA.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12950-025-00455-9
PMCID: PMC12269142
PMID: 40671118

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All methods were carried out in accordance with relevant local and 
University of Wisconsin guidelines and regulations. All animals were handled in 
accordance with the Animal Research: Reporting of in vivo Experiments (ARRIVE) 
guidelines and the University of Wisconsin's Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee policies and our approved protocols. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


64. Nat Neurosci. 2025 Aug;28(8):1610-1621. doi: 10.1038/s41593-025-02000-6. Epub
 2025 Jul 16.

Tau PET positivity in individuals with and without cognitive impairment varies 
with age, amyloid-β status, APOE genotype and sex.

Ossenkoppele R(#)(1)(2)(3), Coomans EM(#)(4)(5), Apostolova LG(6), Baker SL(7), 
Barthel H(8), Beach TG(9), Benzinger TLS(10)(11), Betthauser T(12)(13)(14), 
Bischof GN(15)(16), Bottlaender M(17)(18), Bourgeat P(19), den Braber 
A(4)(5)(20), Brendel M(21)(22), Brickman AM(23)(24), Cash DM(25)(26), Carrillo 
MC(27), Coath W(28), Christian BT(29), Dickerson BC(30)(31)(32), Dore V(19)(33), 
Drzezga A(15)(16)(22), Feizpour A(33)(34), van der Flier WM(4)(5)(35), 
Franzmeier N(36)(37)(38), Frisoni GB(39), Garibotto V(40)(41)(42), van de 
Giessen E(5)(43), Domingo-Gispert J(44)(45), Gnoerich J(21), Gu Y(46), Guan 
Y(47), Hanseeuw BJ(48)(49)(50), Harrison TM(51), Jack CR(52), Jaeger E(53), 
Jagust WJ(51), Jansen WJ(54), La Joie R(55), Johnson KA(56)(57)(58)(59), Johnson 
SC(12)(13), Kennedy IA(60), Kim JP(46), van Laere K(61)(62), Lagarde J(17)(63), 
Lao P(64)(65), Luchsinger JA(65), Kern S(66)(67), Kreisl WC(64), Malotaux V(48), 
Malpetti M(68), Manly JJ(64)(69), Mao X(47), Mattsson-Carlgren N(70)(71)(72); 
Mayo Clinic Study on Aging; Messerschmidt K(8), Minguillon C(44), Mormino 
EM(73), O'Brien JT(74), Palmqvist S(70)(75), Peretti DE(41), Petersen RC(76), 
Pijnenburg YAL(4)(5), Pontecorvo MJ(60), Poirier J(77)(78); PREVENT-AD Research 
Group; Rabinovici GD(55)(79), Rahmouni N(80)(81), Risacher SL(82), Rosa-Neto 
P(80)(81), Rosen H(55), Rowe CC(33)(34), Rowe JB(68)(83)(84), Rullmann M(85), 
Salman Y(48), Sarazin M(17)(86), Saykin AJ(82), Schneider JA(87)(88)(89), Schöll 
M(90)(91)(92), Schott JM(28)(93), Seo SW(46), Serrano GE(9), Shcherbinin S(60), 
Shekari M(44), Skoog I(66), Smith R(70)(75), Sperling RA(56)(57)(58), Spruyt 
L(94), Stomrud E(70)(75), Strandberg O(70), Therriault J(80)(81), Xie F(47), 
Vandenberghe R(94)(95), Villemagne VL(33)(96), Villeneuve S(77)(78), Visser 
PJ(4)(5)(54), Vossler H(73), Young CB(73), Groot C(4)(5), Hansson O(97)(98).

Collaborators: Petersen RC.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden. r.ossenkoppele@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Amsterdam UMC; location VUmc, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. r.ossenkoppele@amsterdamumc.nl.
(3)Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
r.ossenkoppele@amsterdamumc.nl.
(4)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Amsterdam UMC; location VUmc, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(7)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(8)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Leipzig, Leipzig, 
Germany.
(9)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, AZ, USA.
(10)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(11)Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington, 
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(12)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(13)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(14)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(15)Faculty of Medicine, University of Cologne and Department of Nuclear 
Medicine University Hospital Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(16)Molecular Organization of the Brain, Institute for Neurosciences and 
Medicine, Jülich, Germany.
(17)Université Paris-Saclay, BioMaps, Service Hospitalier Frédéric Joliot CEA, 
CNRS, INSERM, Orsay, France.
(18)UNIACT, Neurospin, CEA, Gif-sur-Yvette, France.
(19)Australian eHealth Research Centre, CSIRO, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(20)Department of Biological Psychology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(21)Department of Nuclear Medicine, LMU Hospital, Ludwig-Maximilians-University 
of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(22)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(23)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center and Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's 
Disease and the Aging Brain, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(24)Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(25)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
University College London, London, UK.
(26)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London, UK.
(27)Medical & Scientific Relations, Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, IL, USA.
(28)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(29)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(30)Frontotemporal Disorders Unit, Department of Neurology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(31)Thinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Boston, MA, USA.
(32)Massachusetts Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(33)Department of Molecular Imaging & Therapy, Austin Health, Heidelberg, 
Victoria, Australia.
(34)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(35)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Amsterdam UMC; location VUmc, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(36)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(37)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research (ISD), University Hospital, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(38)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, The 
Sahlgrenska Academy, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(39)Memory Clinic, Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(40)Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Geneva University 
Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(41)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers (NIMTlab), 
Geneva University Neurocenter and Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(42)CIBM Center for Biomedical Imaging, Geneva, Switzerland.
(43)Department of Radiology & Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam UMC; location VUmc, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(44)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(45)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y 
Nanomedicina, Madrid, Spain.
(46)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(47)Department of Nuclear Medicine & PET Center, Huashan Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China.
(48)Institute of Neuroscience, UCLouvain, Brussels, Belgium.
(49)Department of Neurology, Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, Brussels, 
Belgium.
(50)Gordon Center for Medical Imaging, Department of Radiology, Mass General 
Brigham, Boston, MA, USA.
(51)Department of Neuroscience, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, 
USA.
(52)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(53)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Cologne, University Hospital 
of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(54)Alzheimer Center Limburg, School for Mental Health and Neuroscience, 
Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(55)Memory and Aging Center, Department of Neurology, University of California, 
San Francisco, CA, USA.
(56)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(57)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Department of Neurology, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(58)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Department of 
Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(59)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(60)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(61)Department of Imaging and Pathology, Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, 
KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(62)Division of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(63)Department of Neurology of Memory and Language, GHU Paris Psychiatrie & 
Neurosciences, Hôpital Sainte Anne, Paris, France.
(64)Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, USA.
(65)Departments of Medicine and Epidemiology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(66)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(67)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(68)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, 
UK.
(69)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center and Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's 
Disease and the Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, USA.
(70)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, 
Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(71)Department of Neurology, Skåne University Hospital, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.
(72)Wallenberg Center for Molecular Medicine, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(73)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(74)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge School of Clinical 
Medicine, Cambridge, UK.
(75)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(76)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(77)Douglas Mental Health University Institute, Centre for Studies on the 
Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease (StoP-AD), Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(78)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(79)Department of Radiology & Biomedical Imaging, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(80)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill Research Centre for Studies in 
Aging, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(81)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, McGill 
University, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(82)Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(83)Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, UK.
(84)Medical Research Council Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(85)Clinic for Cognitive Neurology, University Hospital of Leipzig and Max 
Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences, Leipzig, Germany.
(86)Department of Neurology of Memory and Language, GHU Paris Psychiatrie & 
Neurosciences, Hôpital Sainte-Anne, Paris, France.
(87)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA.
(88)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(89)Department of Pathology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.
(90)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(91)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(92)Dementia Research Centre, Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK.
(93)UK Dementia Research Institute, London, UK.
(94)Laboratory for Cognitive Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, Leuven 
Brain Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(95)Neurology Service, University Hospital Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(96)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(97)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, 
Lund University, Lund, Sweden. oskar.hansson@med.lu.se.
(98)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden. 
oskar.hansson@med.lu.se.
(#)Contributed equally

Tau positron emission tomography (PET) imaging allows in vivo detection of tau 
proteinopathy in Alzheimer's disease, which is associated with neurodegeneration 
and cognitive decline. Understanding how demographic, clinical and genetic 
factors relate to tau PET positivity will facilitate its use for clinical 
practice and research. Here we conducted an analysis of 42 cohorts worldwide 
(N = 12,048), including 7,394 cognitively unimpaired (CU) participants, 2,177 
participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 2,477 participants with 
dementia. We found that from age 60 years to 80 years, tau PET positivity in a 
temporal composite region increased from 1.1% to 4.4% among CU amyloid-β 
(Aβ)-negative participants and from 17.4% to 22.2% among CU Aβ-positive 
participants. Across the same age span, tau PET positivity decreased from 68.0% 
to 52.9% in participants with MCI and from 91.5% to 74.6% in participants with 
dementia. Age, Aβ status, APOE ε4 carriership and female sex were all associated 
with a higher prevalence of tau PET positivity across groups. APOE ε4 
carriership in CU individuals lowered the age at onset of both Aβ positivity and 
tau positivity by decades. Finally, we replicated these associations in an 
independent autopsy dataset (N = 5,072 from 3 cohorts).

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41593-025-02000-6
PMCID: PMC12321570
PMID: 40670684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: R.O. received research 
support from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen Research & Development, Roche, 
Quanterix and Optina Diagnostics. He has given lectures in symposia sponsored by 
GE Healthcare and serves on advisory boards and/or steering committees for 
Asceneuron, Biogen and Bristol Myers Squibb. All of the above is paid to his 
institutions. E.v.d.G. received research support from NWO, ZonMw, 
Hersenstichting, Alzheimer Nederland, Health-Holland and KWF. J.T. is funded by 
the Colin J. Adair Charitable Foundation fellowship. Funding for the TRIAD 
cohort comes from the Weston Brain Institute, Canadian Institutes of Health 
Research (CIHR) (grant nos. MOP-11-51-31; RFN 152985, 159815 and 162303), 
Canadian Consortium of Neurodegeneration and Aging (CCNA; grant no. 
MOP-11-51-31-team 1), the Alzheimer’s Association (grant nos. NIRG-12-92090 and 
NIRP-12-259245), Brain Canada Foundation (CFI, project no. 34874. grant no. 
33397), the Fonds de Recherche du Québec—Santé (FRQS; Chercheur Boursier, grant 
no. 2020-VICO-279314) and the Colin J. Adair Charitable Foundation. A.d.B. 
received research funding from Alzheimer Association, Alzheimer Nederland, 
Stichting Dioraphte, Health Holland, Weston Brain Institute and Selfridges Group 
Foundation. A.J.S. receives support from multiple National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) grants. He has also received support from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, a 
subsidiary of Eli Lilly (in kind contribution of PET-tracer precursor) and 
participated in scientific advisory boards (Bayer Oncology, Eisai, Novo Nordisk 
and Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc.) and an Observational Study Monitoring 
Board (MESA, NIH, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute), as well as 
external advisory committees for multiple National Institute on Aging (NIA) 
grants. He also serves as Editor-in-Chief of Brain Imaging and Behavior, a 
Springer Nature Journal. J.B.R. is supported by the Medical Research Council 
(MRC, grant nos. MC_UU_00030/14 and MR/T033371/1) and National Institute for 
Health and Care Research (NIHR) Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre (grant no. 
NIHR203312), the PSP Association and the Cambridge Centre for Parkinson-plus. 
M.M. is supported by Race Against Dementia Alzheimer’s Research UK (grant no. 
ARUK-RADF2021A-010), NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre (grant no. 
NIHR203312) and the UK Dementia Research Institute through UK DRI Ltd, 
principally funded by the MRC. The views expressed are those of the authors and 
not necessarily those of the NIHR or the Department of Health and Social Care. 
J.M.S. acknowledges the support of the NIHR University College London Hospitals 
Biomedical Research Centre, Wolfson Foundation, Alzheimer’s Research UK, Brain 
Research UK, Weston Brain Institute, MRC, British Heart Foundation, UK Dementia 
Research Institute and Alzheimer’s Association. J.M.S. received research funding 
and PET tracer from AVID Radiopharmaceuticals (a wholly owned subsidiary of Eli 
Lilly) and Alliance Medical, has consulted for Roche, Eli Lilly, Biogen, AVID, 
Merck and GE and is Chief Medical Officer for Alzheimer’s Research UK. V.G. was 
funded from the Swiss National Science Foundation (project nos. 320030_169876 
and 320030_185028), VELUX Foundation, Schmidheiny Foundation and Fondation 
Privée of the University Hospitals of Geneva. Research programs of W.M.v.d.F. 
have been funded by ZonMW, NWO, EU-JPND, EU-IHI, Alzheimer Nederland, 
Hersenstichting CardioVascular Onderzoek Nederland, Health-Holland, Topsector 
Life Sciences & Health, stichting Dioraphte, Gieskes-Strijbis fonds, stichting 
Equilibrio, Edwin Bouw fonds, Noaber foundation, Pieter Houbolt Fonds, Pasman 
stichting, stichting Alzheimer & Neuropsychiatrie Foundation, Philips, Biogen MA 
Inc, Novartis-NL, Life-MI, AVID, Roche BV, Fujifilm, Eisai and Combinostics. 
W.M.v.d.F. holds the Pasman chair and is recipient of ABOARD, which is a 
public–private partnership receiving funding from ZonMW (grant no. 73305095007) 
and Health-Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health (PPP-allowance; grant no. 
LSHM20106). She is a recipient of TAP-dementia ( www.tap-dementia.nl ), 
receiving funding from ZonMw (grant no. 10510032120003) in the context of 
Onderzoeksprogramma Dementie, part of the Dutch National Dementia Strategy. 
TAP-dementia receives co-financing from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Roche 
Diagnostics and Amprion. Gieskes-Strijbis Fonds also contributes to 
TAP-dementia. W.M.v.d.F. has been an invited speaker at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, 
Eisai, WebMD Neurology (Medscape), Novo Nordisk, Springer Healthcare and 
European Brain Council. She is a consultant to Oxford Health Policy Forum CIC, 
Roche, Biogen MA Inc. and Eisai, and participated in advisory boards of Biogen 
MA Inc., Roche, and Eli Lilly. W.M.v.d.F. is a member of the steering committee 
of EVOKE/EVOKE+ (Novo Nordisk). All funding is paid to her institution. She is 
member of the steering committee of PAVE and Think Brain Health. S.K. was 
financed by grants from the Swedish state under the agreement between the 
Swedish Government and the county councils, the ALF agreement (grant nos. 
ALFGBG-965923, ALFGBG-81392 and ALFGBG-771071). The Alzheimerfonden (grant nos. 
AF-842471, AF-737641, AF-929959 and AF-939825). The Swedish Research Council 
(grant nos. 2019-02075 and 2019-02075_15) and Stiftelsen Psykiatriska 
Forskningsfonden. S.P. has acquired research support (for the institution) from 
ki elements/ADDF and Avid. In the past 2 years, he has received consultancy or 
speaker fees from Bioartic, Biogen, Esai, Lilly and Roche. M.M. provides 
consultancy unrelated to the current work to Astex Pharmaceuticals. J.T. has 
served as a consultant for the Neurotorium educational platform and for Alzheon. 
P.R.-N. has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for 
Roche, Novo Nordisk, Eisai and Cerveau Radiopharmaceuticals. C.C.R. has received 
research grants from National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC), 
Enigma Australia, Biogen, Eisai and Abbvie. He is on the scientific advisory 
board for Enigma/Mellieur Technologies and has consulted for Prothena, Eisai, 
Roche and Biogen Australia. S.C.J. has served in the past 2 years on advisory 
boards for Enigma Biomedical and ALZPath. K.V.L. has received research grants 
through KU Leuven from Biogen, BMS, Cerevel, CHDI, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, 
Lantheus/Cerveau, Lundbeck and Rapport. He is a member of the scientific 
advisory board for Enigma/Mellieur Technologies. V.G. received research support 
and speaker fees through her institution from GE Healthcare, Siemens 
Healthineers, Novo Nordisk. Janssen and Novartis. S.K. has served at scientific 
advisory boards, speaker and/or consultant for Roche, Eli Lilly, Geras 
Solutions, Optoceutics, Biogen and Bioarctic. S.S., M.P. and I.K. are employees 
and minor shareholders of Eli Lilly and Co. A.D. received research support from 
Siemens Healthineers, Life Molecular Imaging, GE Healthcare, AVID 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Sofie, Eisai, Novartis/AAA and Ariceum Therapeutics. He 
received speaker or honorary fees and/or contributed to advisory boards for 
Siemens Healthineers, Sanofi, GE Healthcare, Biogen, Novo Nordisk, Invicro, 
Novartis/AAA, Bayer Vital, Lilly, Peer View Institute for Medical Education and 
the International Atomic Energy Agency. He holds stock from Siemens 
Healthineers, Lantheus Holding, Structured therapeutics, Lilly and a patent for 
18F-JK-PSMA-7 (PSMA PET imaging tracer; patent no. EP3765097A1; date of patent: 
20 January 2021). He has received national and international grants including 
DFG grants (nos. SFB 1451 C04 and DR 445/9-1) and serves as Associate Editor of 
the Journal of Nuclear Medicine. L.A. received personal compensation for serving 
as a consultant for Biogen, Two Labs, Florida Department of Health, Genetech, 
NIH Biobank, Eli Lilly, GE Healthcare, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics and for 
serving on a Data Safety and Monitoring Board for IQVIA. L.A. receives research 
support from the National Institute on Aging, the Alzheimer’s Association, Roche 
Diagnostics, AVID radiopharmaceuticals, Life Molecular Imaging and Eli Lilly. 
G.B.F. received funding through the Private Foundation of Geneva University 
Hospitals from: APRA (Association Suisse pour la Recherche sur la Maladie 
d’Alzheimer), Geneva; Fondation Segré, Geneva; Ivan Pictet, Geneva; Race Against 
Dementia Foundation, London, UK; Fondation Child Care, Geneva; Fondation Edmond 
J. Safra, Geneva; Fondation Minkoff, Geneva; Fondazione Agusta, Lugano; McCall 
Macbain Foundation, Canada; Nicole et René Keller, Geneva; Fondation AETAS, 
Geneva. He has also received funding through the University of Geneva or Geneva 
University Hospitals: for IISSs from ROCHE Pharmaceuticals OM Pharma EISAI 
Pharmaceuticals Biogen Pharmaceuticals and Novo Nordisk; and funding for 
competitive research projects from: H2020, Innovative Medicines Initiative 
(IMI), IMI2, Swiss National Science Foundation and VELUX Foundation; consulting 
fees from: Biogen, Diadem and Roche; and payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers’ bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from: 
Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisk and GE HealthCare. W.J.J. serves on data monitoring 
committees for Lilly, holds equity in Optoceutics and Molecular Medicine, 
receives research support from Biogen and grants from ZonMW, Alzheimer 
Nederland, St. Rinsum-Ponsen. A.M.B. has received payment for consulting or 
participation in advisory boards from Cognition Therapeutics, Cognito 
Therapeutics and CogState. He is a section editor for Alzheimer’s & Dementia. 
J.O.’B. has acted as a consultant for TauRx, Novo Nordisk, Biogen, Roche, Lilly, 
GE Healthcare and Okwin and received grants or academic support from Avid/Lilly, 
Merck and Alliance Medical. J.A.L. received royalties from Spring for the book 
Diabetes in the Brain, a stipend from Wolters Kluwer as editor of the journal 
Alzheimer’s Disease and Associated Disorders, and donated drug and placebo for 
an NIH-funded clinical trial from EMD Serono. He was a consultant to Merck KGaA 
in 2022 and to Novo Nordisk in 2024 and 2025. J.D.-G. received research support 
from GE HealthCare, Roche Diagnostics, Hoffmann—La Roche and Life—MI; 
participated in symposia sponsored by Biogen, Philips Nederlands, Life-MI and 
Esteve; acted as a consultant for Roche Diagnostics; and served in the Molecular 
Neuroimaging Advisory Board of Prothena Biosciences. J.D.-G. is founder, 
co-owner and member of the Board of Directors of Betascreen SL and is currently 
a full-time employee of AstraZeneca. W.C.K. has served as a consultant for 
Cerveau Technologies, Inc. O.H. is an employee of Eli Lilly and Lund University, 
and he has previously acquired research support (for Lund University) from AVID 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, C2N Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Fujirebio, GE 
Healthcare and Roche. In the past 2 years, he received consultancy or speaker 
fees from Alzpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol Meyer Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi and Siemens. Work at 
Lund University was supported by the ERC (grant no. ADG-101096455), Alzheimer’s 
Association (grant nos. ZEN24-1069572 and SG-23-1061717), GHR Foundation, 
Swedish Research Council (grant no. 2022-00775), ERA PerMed (grant no. 
ERAPERMED2021-184), Knut and Alice Wallenberg foundation (grant no. 2022-0231), 
Strategic Research Area MultiPark (Multidisciplinary Research in Parkinson’s 
disease) at Lund University, Swedish Alzheimer Foundation (grant no. AF-980907), 
Swedish Brain Foundation (grant no. FO2021-0293), Parkinson Foundation of Sweden 
(grant no. 1412/22), Cure Alzheimer’s fund, Rönström Family Foundation, Konung 
Gustaf V:s och Drottning Victorias Frimurarestiftelse, Skåne University Hospital 
Foundation (grant no. 2020-O000028), Regionalt Forskningsstöd (grant no. 
2022-1259) and Swedish Federal Government under the ALF agreement (grant no. 
2022-Projekt0080). The precursor of [18F]flortaucipir was provided by AVID 
radiopharmaceuticals and the precursor of [18F]RO948 by Roche. The precursor of 
[18F]flutemetamol was sponsored by GE Healthcare. The MCSA is supported by the 
National Institute on Aging (grant no. U01 AG006786), GHR and the Alzheimer’s 
Association. G.S. received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 
Research and Innovation Program under Marie Sklodowska-Curie action (grant no. 
101061836), an Alzheimer’s Association Research Fellowship (no. AARF-22-972612), 
the Alzheimerfonden (grant no. AF-980942), Greta och Johan Kocks research grants 
and travel grants from the Strategic Research Area MultiPark (Multidisciplinary 
Research in Parkinson’s Disease) at Lund University. The data contributed from 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center were supported by grant funding from 
the NIA (grant nos. K23AG052633, R01AG063888, P30AG066462, R01AG055299, 
RF1AG051556, R01AG050440, R01AG055299, K24AG045334 and R00AG065506). Funding for 
data from Stanford University was supported by NIA (grant nos. P30AG066515 and 
R01AG074339 to E.C.M. and K99AG071837 to C.B.Y.) and National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke (grant no. R01NS115114). The data contributed 
from the Shatau7-IMATAU study (Paris) were supported by French Ministry of 
Health (grant no. PHRC-2013-0919), CEA, Fondation pour la recherche sur 
Alzheimer, Institut de Recherches Internationales Servier, France-Alzheimer. The 
MCSA is supported by the NIA (grant no. U01 AG006786), GHR and the Alzheimer’s 
Association. The data contributed from the Wisconsin Registry for Alzheimer’s 
Prevention were supported by grant funding from the NIA to the University of 
Wisconsin (grant nos. R01 AG021155 and R01 AG027161 to S.C.J.). Funding for data 
from Washington University was supported by the NIA (grant nos. R01AG070941 to 
S.E.S., P30AG066444, P01AG003991 and P01AG026276 to J.C.M.). Blood plasma 
measurements were supported by grant nos. RF1AG061900 (to R.J.B), R56AG061900 
(to R.J.B.) and the Tracy Family SILQ Center (to R.J.B.). The data contributed 
from the PREVENT-AD were supported by public–private partnership funds provided 
by McGill University, the Fonds de Recherche du Québec—Santé (FRQ-S), an 
unrestricted research grant from Pfizer Canada, the Levesque Foundation, the 
Douglas Hospital Research Centre and Foundation, the Government of Canada, the 
Canada Fund for Innovation, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, the 
Alzheimer Society of Canada, the US NIH, the Alzheimer Association and Brain 
Canada Foundation. Data collection and dissemination of the data presented in 
this manuscript were supported by the LEADS Consortium (grant nos. R56/U01 
AG057195, funded by the NIA, as well as grant no. U24AG021886, Alzheimer’s 
Association, LEADS GENETICS‐19‐639372, LDRFP-21-818464, Alzheimer’s 
LDRFP-21-824473 and LDRFP-21-828356). NACC is funded by the NIA (grant no. U24 
AG072122). NACC data are contributed by the following NIA-funded ADRCs: P30 
AG010133, P30 AG062422, P30 AG066462, P30AG066507, P30 AG062421, P30 AG066506, 
P30AG072977, P30 AG066444, P30 AG066515, P30 AG062677, P30 AG072980, P30 
AG072979 and P30 AG066511. The manuscript has been reviewed by the LEADS 
Publication Committee for scientific content. We acknowledge the invaluable 
contributions of the participants in LEADS as well as the assistance of the 
investigators and support staff at each of the participating sites. The ALFA 
study receives funding from ‘la Caixa’ Foundation (ID 100010434), under 
agreement no. LCF/PR/GN17/50300004, the Alzheimer’s Association and an 
international anonymous charity foundation through the TriBEKa Imaging Platform 
project (TriBEKa-17-519007). Additional support has been received from the 
Universities and Research Secretariat, Ministry of Business and Knowledge of the 
Catalan Government under grant no. 2021 SGR 00913. Data were obtained from 
Australian Imaging Biomarkers and Lifestyle (AIBL) flagship study of aging and 
the Australian Dementia Network funded by the NHMRC of Australia (grant nos. 
APP1132604, APP1140853 and APP1152623), a grant from Enigma Australia and 
support from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization 
(CSIRO). The Banner Sun Health Research Institute Brain and Body Donation 
Program has been supported by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders 
and Stroke (grant no. U24 NS072026, National Brain and Tissue Resource for 
Parkinson’s Disease and Related Disorders), the NIA (grant nos. P30AG019610 and 
P30AG072980, Arizona Alzheimer’s Disease Center), the Arizona Department of 
Health Services (contract no. 211002, Arizona Alzheimer’s Research Center), the 
Arizona Biomedical Research Commission (contract nos. 4001, 0011, 05-901 and 
1001 to the Arizona Parkinson’s Disease Consortium) and the Michael J. Fox 
Foundation for Parkinson’s Research. The NACC database is funded by the NIA 
(grant no. U01 AG016976). Data collection and sharing for this project were 
funded by the ADNI (NIH, grant no. U01 AG024904) and DOD ADNI (Department of 
Defense award no. W81XWH-12-2-0012). ADNI is funded by the NIA, the National 
Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering, and through generous 
contributions from the following: AbbVie, Alzheimer’s Association; Alzheimer’s 
Drug Discovery Foundation; Araclon Biotech; BioClinica, Inc.; Biogen; 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; CereSpir, Inc.; Cogstate; Eisai Inc.; Elan 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Eli Lilly and Co.; EuroImmun; F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
and its affiliated company Genentech, Inc.; Fujirebio; GE Healthcare; IXICO 
Ltd.; Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy Research & Development, LLC.; Johnson & 
Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development LLC.; Lumosity; Lundbeck; Merck & 
Co., Inc.; Meso Scale Diagnostics, LLC.; NeuroRx Research; Neurotrack 
Technologies; Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation; Pfizer Inc.; Piramal 
Imaging; Servier; Takeda Pharmaceutical Company; and Transition Therapeutics. 
The Canadian Institutes of Health Research provides funds to support ADNI 
clinical sites in Canada. Private sector contributions are facilitated by the 
Foundation for the NIH ( www.fnih.org ). The grantee organization is the 
Northern California Institute for Research and Education and the study is 
coordinated by the Alzheimer’s Therapeutic Research Institute at the University 
of Southern California. ADNI data are disseminated by the Laboratory for Neuro 
Imaging at the University of Southern California. ROSMAP is supported by grant 
nos. P30AG10161, P30AG72975, R01AG15819, R01AG17917, U01AG46152 and U01AG61356. 
ROSMAP resources can be requested at https://www.radc.rush.edu and 
www.synpase.org . The other authors declare no competing interests.


65. Nat Neurosci. 2025 Aug;28(8):1622-1634. doi: 10.1038/s41593-025-01992-5. Epub
 2025 Jul 16.

Evidence for trans-synaptic propagation of oligomeric tau in human progressive 
supranuclear palsy.

McGeachan RI(1)(2)(3), Keavey L(1)(2), Simzer EM(1)(2), Chang YY(1)(2), Rose 
JL(1)(2), Spires-Jones MP(1)(2), Gilmore M(1)(2), Holt K(1)(2), Meftah S(1)(2), 
Ravingerova N(1)(2), Scutariu C(1)(2), Taylor LW(1)(2), King D(1)(2), Tzioras 
M(1)(2)(4), Tulloch J(1)(2), Booker SA(1), Liaquat I(5), Hindley-Pollock 
N(2)(6), Geary B(2)(6), Smith C(5), Brennan PM(5), Durrant CS(#)(7)(8), 
Spires-Jones TL(#)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)The University of Edinburgh Centre for Discovery Brain Sciences, Edinburgh, 
UK.
(2)UK Dementia Research Institute at The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(3)The University of Edinburgh Hospital for Small Animals, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)Scottish Brain Sciences, Edinburgh, UK.
(5)The University of Edinburgh Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, Edinburgh, 
UK.
(6)MRC Protein Phosphorylation and Ubiquitylation Unit, University of Dundee, 
Dundee, UK.
(7)The University of Edinburgh Centre for Discovery Brain Sciences, Edinburgh, 
UK. claire.durrant@ed.ac.uk.
(8)UK Dementia Research Institute at The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK. 
claire.durrant@ed.ac.uk.
(9)The University of Edinburgh Centre for Discovery Brain Sciences, Edinburgh, 
UK. tara.spires-jones@ed.ac.uk.
(10)UK Dementia Research Institute at The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
UK. tara.spires-jones@ed.ac.uk.
(#)Contributed equally

In the neurodegenerative disease progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), tau 
pathology progresses through the brain in a stereotypical spatiotemporal 
pattern, and where tau pathology appears, synapses are lost. We tested the 
hypothesis that pathological tau contributes to synapse loss and may spread 
through the brain by moving from presynapses to postsynapses. Using postmortem 
PSP brain samples and a living human brain slice culture model, we observe 
pathological tau in synaptic pairs and evidence that oligomeric tau can enter 
live human postsynapses. Proteomics revealed increased clusterin in synapses in 
PSP, and super-resolution imaging showed clusterin colocalized with tau in 
synapses in close enough proximity to be binding partners, which may mediate tau 
spread. Accumulation of tau in synapses correlated with synapse loss, and 
synaptic engulfment by astrocytes was observed, suggesting that astrocytes 
contribute to synapse loss. Together, these data indicate that targeting 
synaptic tau is a promising approach to treat PSP.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41593-025-01992-5
PMCID: PMC12321572
PMID: 40670683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: T.L.S.-J. is a scientific 
advisory board member of Scottish Brain Sciences, Cognition Therapeutics and 
Race Against Dementia, and has received consulting fees or honoraria from Jay 
Therapeutics, Sanofi, AbbVie, Merck and Eisai. M.T. is an employee of Scottish 
Brain Sciences. The other authors declare no competing interests.


66. Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 16;15(1):25872. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-06310-4.

Developing an explainable machine learning and fog computing-based visual rating 
scale for the prediction of dementia progression.

Ali ZH(1)(2), Hassan E(3), Elgamal S(4), El-Rashidy N(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Embedded Network Systems and Technology, Faculty of Artificial 
Intelligence, Kafrelsheikh University, El-Geish St, Kafrelsheikh, 33516, Egypt. 
zainabhassan@ai.kfs.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering, School of Engineering and 
Applied Sciences, Nile University, Giza, Egypt. zainabhassan@ai.kfs.edu.eg.
(3)Department of Machine Learning and Information Retrieval, Faculty of 
Artificial Intelligence, Kafrelsheikh University, El-Geish St, Kafrelsheikh, 
33516, Egypt.
(4)Faculty of Medicine , kaferelshikh University , kaferelshikh, Egypt.
(5)Department of Machine Learning and Information Retrieval, Faculty of 
Artificial Intelligence, Kafrelsheikh University, El-Geish St, Kafrelsheikh, 
33516, Egypt. Noura.alrashidy@ai.kfs.edu.eg.

Recently, dementia research has primarily concentrated on using Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging (MRI) to develop learning models in processing and analyzing 
brain data. However, these models often cannot provide early detection of 
affected brain regions. Alternatively, mental test scores such as the 
Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) 
offer valuable insights into the likelihood of dementia and cognitive 
impairments. The main objective of this study is to introduce an innovative and 
dependable context-aware health monitoring system based on fog computing to 
measure mental impairment in the elderly population. The framework provides 
screening tests utilizing MMSE and MoCA to achieve accurate and real-time 
monitoring of cognitive function, allowing for early detection and treatment of 
mental disorders. To assess the effectiveness of our screening test, we 
evaluated a dataset comprising 450 subjects with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) 
from Kaferelshikh University. The aggregated dataset is categorized into three 
classes: (1) 150 patients with MCI, (2) 150 subjects with subcortical diseases, 
Parkinson's Disease (PD), and (3) 150 subjects with cortical diseases, 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD). To accurately determine health risks, we employ an 
ensemble AdaBoost model, providing superior performance in accuracy, precision, 
recall, F-score, and Area Under the Curve (AUC). To validate the effectiveness 
of our Machine Learning (ML) model on unseen data, we evaluate an additional 18 
subjects using the proposed scoring test, with six subjects from each class. The 
results indicate that our proposed ML model achieves an impressive accuracy of 
0.93, outperforming the MoCA score (0.90) and MMSE score (0.83). Through our 
research, we demonstrate the potential of our context-aware fog computing 
approach in significantly enhancing early diagnosis of dementia, leveraging 
mental test scores as valuable indicators.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-06310-4
PMCID: PMC12267627
PMID: 40670451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: All methods were carried out 
in accordance with medical guidelines and regulations. The study protocol was 
approved by the [Kaferelshikh university- faculty of medicine] (Approval No. 
MKSU 50–1-18). Informed consent: All subjects agreed to participate in our study 
after getting written informed consent from the patients or their first-of kin 
relatives and after approval from the ethical committee of the faculty of 
medicine at Kafr El-Sheik University.


67. Contemp Clin Trials. 2025 Sep;156:108010. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2025.108010.
Epub  2025 Jul 14.

Success and cost-effectiveness of strategies to recruit older adults to a 
behavioral intervention research study.

Nelson E(1), Hand LK(1), Glaser A(1), Lewandowski T(2), Burns JM(2), Phadnis 
MA(3), Bruce J(4), Siengsukon CF(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Rehabilitation Science, and Athletic 
Training, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United States of 
America.
(2)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Fairway, KS, United 
States of America.
(3)Department of Biostatistics & Data Science, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, United States of America.
(4)Department of Biomedical and Health Informatics, University of 
Missouri-Kansas City, School of Medicine, Kansas City, MO, USA; Departments of 
Neurology and Psychiatry, University Health, Kansas City, MO, USA.
(5)Department of Physical Therapy, Rehabilitation Science, and Athletic 
Training, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United States of 
America. Electronic address: csiengsukon@kumc.edu.

BACKGROUND: With a growing population of older adults, there is an increased 
need to focus on age-related research. However, recruiting this demographic can 
be difficult due to numerous factors. Therefore, there is a critical need to 
understand which recruitment methods yield the most successful and 
cost-effective results amongst older adults.
METHODS: Multiple recruitment strategies were employed to enroll 200 older 
adults (ages 60-85) into a randomized controlled trial investigating the impact 
of a behavioral sleep intervention on cognitive function. Success and 
cost-effectiveness of each strategy was evaluated, including percentage of 
participants recruited, contact-to-enrolled conversion percentage, overall cost, 
and cost per participant.
RESULTS: The total contact-to-enrolled conversion rate was 10.2 % with an 
overall recruitment cost of $20,220 and a per-participant cost of $101. The 
highest percentage of enrolled participants (49 %) was recruited through the 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (KU ADRC) registry, which had the highest 
overall cost ($13,175). Radio advertisements, print advertisements, and KU ADRC 
registry had both high conversion rates (19-33 %) and high per-participant costs 
($134-227). Facebook advertisements and friend/family referrals had low 
per-participant costs ($17 and $0, respectively) and high conversion rates (23 % 
for both), but only provided 10 % of the enrolled participants.
CONCLUSION: Utilizing multiple recruitment sources is essential for successful 
recruitment into behavioral research studies. Recruitment sources with higher 
costs per participant tended to have the highest conversion rate, apart from 
Facebook and family/friend referrals. While high-cost strategies are likely 
necessary, including relational and social media-based strategies may offer 
cost-effective methods for recruiting older adults.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2025.108010
PMID: 40669747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Catherine Siengsukon, PT, PhD is 
owner and CEO of Sleep Health Education, LLC.


68. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2025 Sep 8;778:152335. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.152335. Epub 2025 Jul 10.

APOE4-driven lipid metabolic dysregulation in Alzheimer's disease: Multi-pathway 
mechanisms and therapeutic perspectives.

Zhang WX(1), Yang YL(2), Yu JX(1), Jia LH(2), Huang HC(3).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Functional Foods, Beijing 
Union University, Beijing 100023, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Functional Foods, Beijing 
Union University, Beijing 100023, China; Key Laboratory of Natural Products 
Development and Innovative Drug Research, Beijing Union University, Beijing 
100023, China.
(3)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Functional Foods, Beijing 
Union University, Beijing 100023, China; Key Laboratory of Natural Products 
Development and Innovative Drug Research, Beijing Union University, Beijing 
100023, China. Electronic address: hanchang@buu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized 
clinically by senile plaques deposition and hyperphosphorylated Tau. As the 
primary genetic risk factor for late-onset AD (LOAD), Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) 
might drive the core pathological progression of this disease through lipid 
metabolism dysregulation. Due to its relatively lower lipid-binding efficiency 
compared to APOE3, APOE4 impairs cholesterol efflux, leading to lipid droplet 
(LD) accumulation and lysosomal dysfunction in neurons and glial cells. APOE4 
also disrupts the microglia TREM2-APOE signaling axis asnd exacerbates 
neuroinflammation by activating the TLR4/NF-κB pathway. In oligodendrocytes, 
APOE4 induces dysregulation of the LXRβ/ABCA1 pathway and results in 
sphingolipid metabolism imbalance and demyelination. Furthermore, APOE4 
compromises the integrity of blood-brain barrier and activates the CypA-MMP9 
pathway, facilitating the infiltration of peripheral inflammatory cytokine and 
cerebrovascular pathology. This article summarized the evidence that APOE4 
affects lipid metabolism through various pathways and proposed the potential 
therapeutic strategies to alleviate the progression of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.152335
PMID: 40669336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests:Reports a relationship with that 
includes:. Has patent pending to. If there are other authors, they declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


69. Geriatr Nurs. 2025 Sep-Oct;65:103504. doi: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2025.103504.
Epub  2025 Jul 15.

Family distress and associated factors in persons with dementia at risk of 
getting lost.

Chen KX(1), Pai MC(2), Cotter V(3), Wu MJ(4), Hong WP(5), Wang JJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, 1 
University Road, Tainan, Taiwan. Electronic address: a55116221210@gmail.com.
(2)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, 
Tainan, Taiwan; Division of Behavioral Neurology, Department of Neurology, 
National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng 
Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan; Institute of Gerontology, College of Medicine, 
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
pair@mail.ncku.edu.tw.
(3)Associate Professor, Johns Hopkins School of Nursing, Baltimore, MD, USA. 
Electronic address: vcotter1@jhu.edu.
(4)Department of Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 704, Taiwan. Electronic 
address: topmoslover@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 704, Taiwan. Electronic 
address: weipinhong@gmail.com.
(6)Professor, Department of Nursing, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, 1 University Road, Tainan, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
ns127@mail.ncku.edu.tw.

OBJECTIVES: To examine family distress and related factors in persons with 
dementia at risk of getting lost.
METHODS: A descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted between July 2023 and 
January 2024. A survey was administered to a sample of family caregivers 
providing care to persons with dementia in outpatient clinics and community 
dementia care sites in Taiwan. The survey was conducted using a set of 
questionnaires.
RESULTS: Family caregivers of persons with dementia who did not get lost 
experienced moderate levels of family distress, followed by those in the 
recurrent getting lost and single incidence of getting lost groups. Hierarchical 
multiple regression analysis revealed that accident-associated getting lost and 
caregiver burden were factors significantly related to family distress.
CONCLUSION: Caring for persons with dementia with a history of getting lost is 
distressing for families, particularly those who have experienced 
accident-associated getting lost and caregiver burden, necessitating tailored 
interventions to reduce family distress.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2025.103504
PMID: 40669135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No conflict of 
interest has been declared by the authors.


70. PLoS One. 2025 Jul 16;20(7):e0320572. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0320572. 
eCollection 2025.

Mechanistic insights into the anti-aging effects of Crocus sativus in a 
D-Gal-induced in vitro neural senescence model.

Castelli V(1), Cesare P(1), Bej E(1), d'Angelo M(1), Volpe AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life, Health and Environmental Sciences, University of 
L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The increasing number of elderly individuals has made age-related 
disorders a significant health concern. Aging is a natural, progressive and 
gradual phenomenon that leads to irreversible modifications in all molecules, 
cells, tissues and organs of an organism. Brain senescence is associated with 
increased risk of developing various neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's 
disease, Parkinson's disease, and stroke. Therefore, finding effective 
strategies to counteract or delay brain senescence is of great importance for 
improving the quality of life and health span of the elderly population. 
Previous studies demonstrated that D-galactose is an appropriate agent to induce 
aging effects in in vivo and in vitro models.
PURPOSE: In the present study, we evaluated anti-aging effects of a local 
Saffron extract (SE from Central Italy) on D-GAL-induced aging model in vitro. 
Based on promising preliminary results, future studies will focus on testing 
this specific Crocus sativus stigma preparation in animal models of aging.
METHODS: The potential anti-aging effect was evaluated using assessment of cell 
proliferation, live-cell cytotoxicity, Beta-Galactosidase (β-GAL), lipid 
peroxidation, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), advanced glycation 
end products (AGEs) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels. Additionally, the effects 
of SE pretreatment were examined on cell cycle and endoplasmic reticulum stress. 
Additionally, we employed a novel approach to analyze deeper changes upon 
saffron extract treatment, which is label-free holotomography.
RESULTS: Overall, our findings suggested that pretreatment with SE was 
protective against D-GAL-induced senescence, by counteracting oxidative and 
endoplasmic reticulum stress and proteins that regulate cell death.
CONCLUSION: We obtained interesting results since pre-treatment with SE 
ameliorated overall condition, and for the first time we observed the strong 
anti-aging effect of SE not only in term of morphology, but also dynamics and 
total dry mass of cells. Overall, our work introduces a novel and promising 
approach to counteract or delay brain senescence, potentially improving the 
quality of life and health span of the elderly population.

Copyright: © 2025 Castelli et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0320572
PMCID: PMC12266386
PMID: 40668823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


71. IEEE Pulse. 2025 May-Jun;16(3):30-35. doi: 10.1109/MPULS.2025.3572600.

Breaking Barriers With Sound: Focused Ultrasound in the Brain.

Padliya T.

Focused ultrasound (FUS) is rapidly redefining the landscape of brain therapy, 
offering a noninvasive, highly precise alternative to traditional neurosurgical 
techniques. Enabled by advances in phased-array transducer technology, 
MRI-guided targeting and thermometry, and sophisticated treatment planning 
software, FUS delivers sub-millimeter accuracy through the skull while sparing 
surrounding tissue. This article provides a comprehensive yet accessible 
overview of the core technologies that make FUS possible, including phase 
correction for skull variability and real-time imaging for safety. We survey the 
broadening spectrum of clinical applications, from FDA-approved treatments for 
essential tremor and Parkinson's disease to investigational uses in Alzheimer's, 
glioblastoma, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and targeted drug delivery. 
Pioneering trials have demonstrated not only durable tremor control and motor 
improvement, but also the unique ability to deliver drugs directly to the brain 
and noninvasively target deep neuropsychiatric circuits.

DOI: 10.1109/MPULS.2025.3572600
PMID: 40668694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. IEEE Pulse. 2025 May-Jun;16(3):56-59. doi: 10.1109/MPULS.2025.3572591.

Restoring the Brain's Rhythm: A Physics-Driven Approach to Treating Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Kern R.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) has traditionally been addressed through biochemical 
interventions targeting amyloid and tau pathologies. However, these approaches 
are constrained by high costs, limited accessibility, and suboptimal efficacy. 
This article introduces a novel, physics-based therapeutic modality: noninvasive 
neuromodulation via synchronized visual and auditory stimulation to restore 
gamma frequency brain rhythms. The Spectris AD device, developed by Cognito 
Therapeutics, leverages principles of signal processing and systems engineering 
to drive gamma oscillations in patients with mild to moderate AD. Early clinical 
studies, including the OVERTURE and FLICKER trials, demonstrate promising 
results, such as a 77% reduction in functional decline [Alzheimer's disease 
co-operative study ADL (ADCS-ADL)], a 76% slowing of cognitive decline [mini 
mental-state exam (MMSE)], and structural brain preservation without the safety 
risks associated with monoclonal antibodies. The ongoing HOPE pivotal trial aims 
to validate these findings in a diverse U.S. population. Spectris AD exemplifies 
a shift from molecular to network-level interventions, offering a scalable, 
home-based solution that reimagines neurodegenerative treatment as a 
systems-engineering challenge. This article presents the engineering, clinical 
data, and broader implications of this pioneering approach to neurotherapeutics.

DOI: 10.1109/MPULS.2025.3572591
PMID: 40668687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. J Comput Aided Mol Des. 2025 Jul 16;39(1):53. doi:
10.1007/s10822-025-00637-w.

Integrated machine learning and deep learning-based virtual screening framework 
identifies novel natural GSK-3β inhibitors for Alzheimer's disease.

Zhou Y(#)(1), Mu BR(#)(1), Chen XY(1), Liu L(1), Wu QL(1), Lu MH(2), Qiao FL(3).

Author information:
(1)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Sichuan-Chongqing Co-Construction for Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Infectious Diseases Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine, College of Medical Technology, Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, China.
(2)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Sichuan-Chongqing Co-Construction for Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Infectious Diseases Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine, College of Medical Technology, Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, China. lmh0929@cdutcm.edu.cn.
(3)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Sichuan-Chongqing Co-Construction for Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Infectious Diseases Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine, College of Medical Technology, Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, China. qiaozhaoyi@cdutcm.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder lacking 
effective therapies. Glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β), a key regulator of Aβ 
aggregation and Tau hyperphosphorylation, has emerged as a promising therapeutic 
target. Here, we present a novel two-stage virtual screening (VS) framework that 
integrates an interpretable random forest (RF) model (AUC = 0.99) with a deep 
learning-based molecular docking platform, KarmaDock (NEF0.5% = 1.0), to 
identify potential GSK-3β inhibitors from natural products. The model's 
interpretability was enhanced using SHAP analysis to uncover key fingerprint 
features driving activity predictions. A curated natural compound library 
(n = 25,000) from TCMBank and HERB was constructed under drug-likeness 
constraints, and validated using multi-level decoy sets. Three compounds derived 
from Clausena and Psoralea exhibited favorable pharmacokinetic profiles in 
silico, including blood-brain barrier permeability and low neurotoxicity. 
Molecular docking, pharmacophore modeling, and molecular dynamics simulations 
confirmed their stable interactions with critical GSK-3β binding sites. Notably, 
our approach combines explainability and deep learning to enhance screening 
accuracy and interpretability, addressing limitations in traditional black-box 
models. While current findings are computational, they offer theoretical support 
and provide actionable leads for future experimental validation of natural 
GSK-3β inhibitors.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10822-025-00637-w
PMID: 40668407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


74. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70516. doi: 10.1002/alz.70516.

Identifying subphenotypes of patients undergoing post-operative delirium 
assessment.

Bowman EML(1)(2)(3), McAuley DF(2), McGuinness B(1), Passmore AP(1), Beverland 
D(4), Zetterberg H(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Schott JM(5)(11), Heslegrave A(5)(6), 
Veleva E(5), Laban R(5), Sweeney A(1), Cunningham EL(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Public Health, Institute of Clinical Science, Royal Victoria 
Hospital, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(2)Wellcome-Wolfson Institute for Experimental Medicine, Queen's University 
Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Warneford Hospital, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK.
(4)Outcomes Assessment Unit, Musgrave Park Hospital, Belfast, UK.
(5)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, UK.
(6)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(7)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(9)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(10)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(11)Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, National 
Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Delirium has heterogeneous etiologies and clinical presentations 
and is often associated with poor outcomes. Its pathophysiological mechanisms 
remain largely hypothetical and without targeted pharmacological treatment. This 
work investigates subphenotypes of patients undergoing delirium assessment based 
on clinical features and fluid biomarkers.
METHODS: We performed latent class analysis of an observational cohort of older 
adults undergoing elective surgery.
RESULTS: Two classes were identified, both containing individuals experiencing 
delirium symptoms, with a higher number in Class 1 (p < 0.001). Class 1 were 
older, less educated, and had more depression (p < 0.001). They performed worse 
in all pre-operative cognitive assessments (p < 0.001) and had more markers of 
central nervous system damage: cerebrospinal fluid glial fibrillary acidic 
protein, neurofilament light chain, and soluble triggering receptor expressed on 
myeloid cells 2 (p < 0.001); plasma phosphorylated tau (p = 0.024); and amyloid 
beta 42/40 ratio (p < 0.001). Class 2 experienced more pain (p = 0.006) and 
received more morphine equivalents (p = 0.018).
DISCUSSION: Delirium and neighboring phenotypes should be investigated 
thoroughly in the newly dawning era of precision medicine, to establish novel 
treatments.
HIGHLIGHTS: Latent class analysis identified two subphenotypes of patients. Both 
groups contained patients with delirium or its individual symptoms. Groups 
differed by age, education, depression, independent living, and pain levels. 
Groups differed by pre-operative and post-operative cognition. Groups differed 
by biomarker levels of neurodegeneration and neuronal injury.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70516
PMCID: PMC12265012
PMID: 40667953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: E.L.C. has received grant funding from 
Alzheimer's Research UK. H.Z. is a Wallenberg Scholar and a Distinguished 
Professor at the Swedish Research Council supported by grants from the Swedish 
Research Council (#2023‐00356, #2022‐01018 and #2019‐02397), the European 
Union's Horizon Europe research and innovation programme under grant agreement 
No 101053962, Swedish State Support for Clinical Research (#ALFGBG‐71320), the 
National Institute for Health and Care Research University College London 
Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre, and the UK Dementia Research Institute at 
UCL (UKDRI‐1003). All other authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


75. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2025 Oct;27(10):5612-5621. doi: 10.1111/dom.16609. Epub 
2025 Jul 16.

Adherence to four dietary indices and the risk of all-cause and cause-specific 
dementia: Findings from the UK Biobank study.

Carrasco-Marín F(1)(2)(3), Parra-Soto S(1)(4), Guerrero-Wyss M(1), Araya-Bastias 
C(1), Boonpor J(1)(5), Villagrán-Cerro C(1), Petermann-Rocha F(1)(6), Shannon 
OM(7), Mathers JC(7), Livingstone KM(8), Dingle S(8), Gálvez-Tejeda S(1), 
Hernández-Peregrina A(1), Pranay N(1), Molina-Recio G(2)(9), Pell J(10), Ho 
F(10), Celis-Morales C(1)(11)(12), Molina-Luque R(2)(9).

Author information:
(1)School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Health, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow, UK.
(2)Departamento de Enfermería, Farmacología y Fisioterapia, Facultad de Medicina 
y Enfermería, Universidad de Córdoba, Córdoba, Spain.
(3)Centro de Vida Saludable, Universidad de Concepción, Concepción, Chile.
(4)Department of Nutrition and Public Health, Faculty of Health Science and 
Food, Universidad del Bío-Bío, Chillán, Chile.
(5)Faculty of Public Health, Kasetsart University, Sakon Nakhon, Thailand.
(6)Centro de Investigación Biomédica, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Diego 
Portales, Santiago, Chile.
(7)Human Nutrition & Exercise Research Centre, Centre for Healthier Lives, 
Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle, UK.
(8)Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition, School of Exercise and 
Nutrition Sciences, Deakin University, Burwood, Victoria, Australia.
(9)Lifestyles, Innovation and Health (GA-16), Maimonides Biomedical Research 
Institute of Cordoba (IMIBIC), Córdoba, Spain.
(10)School of Health and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(11)Human Performance Lab, Education, Physical Activity and Health Research 
Unit, University Católica del Maule, Talca, Chile.
(12)Centro de Investigación en Medicina de Altura (CEIMA), Universidad Arturo 
Prat, Iquique, Chile.

AIMS: Despite several modifiable risk factors for dementia being identified, 
diet is often excluded from consideration due to insufficient evidence. Although 
various healthy dietary indices have been associated with improved health 
outcomes, their link to dementia risk remains unclear. This study investigates 
the association between four dietary indices and dementia risk among UK Biobank 
participants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study utilized data from the UK Biobank cohort. 
Dietary intake was self-reported using repeated 24-h recalls (up to five 
occasions), averaged for analysis. Adherence to a healthy diet was assessed 
using four dietary indices: the Recommended Food Score (RFS), Healthy Diet 
Indicator (HDI), Mediterranean Diet Score (MDS) and the Mediterranean-DASH 
Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND) score. The primary outcome was 
incident all-cause dementia, Alzheimer disease, vascular dementia, and 
non-vascular dementia extracted from hospital and primary care records using 
ICD-10 codes. Censored Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate the 
risk of developing dementia and reported as hazard ratios (HRs) with their 95% 
confidence interval (CI). Analyses were adjusted for age, sex, education and 
various lifestyle and health-related factors.
RESULTS: The analysis included 121 521 participants (mean age: 55.7 years; 53.5% 
women), followed for a median of 10.9 years. During follow-up, 621 participants 
developed dementia. Compared with individuals with the lowest dietary adherence 
(Quartile 1), those in the highest adherence group (Quartile 4) showed a lower 
risk of all-cause dementia for MDS (HR: 0.53; 95% CI: 0.45-0.63), MIND (HR: 
0.61; 95% CI: 0.48-0.78), and RFS (HR: 0.66; 95% CI: 0.53-0.85). Similar 
associations were observed for Alzheimer disease and MDS (HR: 0.55; 95% CI: 
0.46-0.67), RFS (HR: 0.61; 95% CI: 0.47-0.80), and MIND (HR: 0.66; 95% CI: 
0.51-0.87). For vascular dementia, only MDS (HR: 0.46; 95% CI: 0.31-0.68) and 
MIND (HR: 0.68; 95% CI: 0.40-0.97) showed a lower risk. These associations 
remained in a 5-year landmark analysis. No associations were observed for HDI 
with any dementia outcome. Our findings indicate that higher adherence to 
specific dietary patterns, particularly the Mediterranean, RFS and MIND diet, is 
associated with a lower risk of dementia.
CONCLUSIONS: The Mediterranean Diet demonstrated the strongest association. 
These results highlight the potential of healthy dietary patterns to improve 
brain health in older adults.

© 2025 The Author(s). Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/dom.16609
PMCID: PMC12409230
PMID: 40667707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


76. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70491. doi: 10.1002/alz.70491.

Donanemab exposure-response in early symptomatic Alzheimer's disease.

Gueorguieva I(1), Chow K(1), Chua L(2), Shcherbinin S(3), Zimmer JA(4), Evans 
CD(4), Wang H(4), Nery ESM(4), Brooks DA(4), Sims JR(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodymanics/Pharmacometrics, Eli 
Lilly and Company, Bracknell, Berkshire, UK.
(2)Department of Global Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodymanics/Pharmacometrics, Eli 
Lilly and Company, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Department of Imaging Medical, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, 
USA.
(4)Department of Medical, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

INTRODUCTION: These analyses aimed to identify factors impacting donanemab 
exposure, amyloid plaque, and clinical efficacy in early symptomatic Alzheimer's 
disease using a population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) approach.
METHODS: Analyses included donanemab trial participants (NCT02624778; 
NCT03367403; NCT04640077; NCT04437511). Dose- and exposure-response 
relationships were characterized relative to amyloid plaque lowering using 
indirect response PK/PD and disease progression models.
RESULTS: Donanemab population PK was described by a biphasic distribution with 
an estimated terminal elimination half-life of approximately 12.1 days for a 
typical participant (72 kg body weight, 1:2560 maximum antidrug antibody [ADA] 
titer). Amyloid reduction was associated with maintaining median serum donanemab 
concentrations over 15 µg/mL (95% confidence interval: 8.54, 18.0). After 
completing active treatment, simulations showed an estimated plaque 
reaccumulation rate (median, 95% confidence interval) of 2.8 (2.16, 3.11) 
Centiloids/year. The donanemab disease progression model showed a clear 
treatment effect.
DISCUSSION: These donanemab models can inform dosing strategies in future 
clinical trials.
HIGHLIGHTS: Weight-based and flat dosing had similar exposure metrics; flat 
dosing was adopted. Donanemab exposure was influenced by weight and titer (not 
clinically relevant). 2.8 Centiloids/year amyloid reaccumulation rate observed 
upon donanemab treatment completion. Around 30% reduction in disease progression 
rate on treatment for integrated Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale (iADRS) and 
Clinical Dementia Rating Scale-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB).

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70491
PMCID: PMC12265020
PMID: 40667684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors are full‐time employees and minor 
shareholders of Eli Lilly and Company. Author disclosures are available in the 
Supporting Information.


77. Open Life Sci. 2025 Jul 7;20(1):20251101. doi: 10.1515/biol-2025-1101. 
eCollection 2025.

Immunoassay for pyruvate kinase M1/2 as an Alzheimer's biomarker in CSF.

de Geus MB(1), Kivisäkk P(1), Trombetta BA(1), Tijms BM(2), Visser PJ(2), Arnold 
SE(1), Carlyle BC(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital & Harvard Medical School, Department of 
Neurology, Boston, MA, United States of America.
(2)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Physiology, Anatomy & Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
United Kingdom.
(4)Kavli Institute for Nanoscience Discovery, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
United Kingdom.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-beta plaques and tau 
tangles in the brain, but these markers alone do not predict disease 
progression. The intersection of these pathologies with other processes 
including metabolic changes may contribute to disease progression. Brain glucose 
metabolism changes are among the earliest detectable events in AD. Pyruvate 
kinase (PKM) has been implicated as a potential biomarker to track these 
metabolic changes. We have developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA) to assess PKM levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). First, we verified 
the relationship of CSF PKM levels with cognitive decline, revealing a 
correlation between elevated CSF PKM levels and accelerated cognitive decline in 
preclinical AD patients in a tau-dependent manner. We developed the ELISA using 
two PKM-specific antibodies and validated it through quality control steps, 
indicating robust quantification of PKM. We showed that ELISA measurements of 
PKM correlate with mass spectrometry values in matching samples. When tested on 
an independent cohort, the assay confirmed elevation of PKM in AD. These 
findings support the use of PKM as a potential biomarker for tracking early 
metabolic changes in AD, offering a novel tool for investigating metabolic 
alterations and their intersection with other underlying pathologies in AD 
progression.

© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter.

DOI: 10.1515/biol-2025-1101
PMCID: PMC12260348
PMID: 40667488

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: B.C.C. has received 
sponsored research funding from Ono Pharmaceutical, and GSK. S.E.A. has served 
on the Scientific Advisory Board of Allyx Therapeutics, BioVie, Bob’s Last 
Marathon, Jocasta, Sage Therapeutics, and Merck. S.E.A. has acted as Consultant 
for EIP Pharma and Daewoong Pharmaceuticals. S.E.A. has received sponsored 
research funding from AbbVie, AC Immune, Amylyx, Athira Pharma, Chromadex, 
Cyclerion Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Janssen, Johnson & Johnson, Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, Seer Bioscience and vTv Theraputics.


78. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 28:2025.06.25.661596. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.25.661596.

Sex-Stratified Transcriptomic Meta-Analysis of Alzheimer's Disease Reveal Brain 
Region and Sex Specific Dysregulation.

Young JI, Varma A, Gomez L, Schmidt MA, Kunkle B, Wang L, Martin ER.

OBJECTIVE: Alzheimer disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder leading to 
cognitive decline. Despite growing recognition of sex differences in 
epidemiology, symptomatology, and clinical outcomes of AD, the molecular 
mechanisms underlying these variations remain poorly defined. We performed 
transcriptome association studies of AD aiming to identify sex-specific and 
sex-dependent transcriptomic profiles that could provide insights into the 
molecular mechanisms underlying sex differences in AD pathogenesis.
METHODS: We conducted a meta-analysis of bulk-RNAseq data derived from human 
postmortem brain studies. Specifically, we analyzed gene expression differences 
between individuals diagnosed with AD and non-cognitively impaired (NCI) 
individuals across two key brain regions: the prefrontal cortex and the temporal 
lobe. We performed stratified differential expression analyses separately in 
males and females, alongside combined analyses across sexes. Additionally, we 
assessed the data in relation to known AD genes, proteomic studies, and drug 
repurposing opportunities.
RESULTS: Beyond the genes commonly dysregulated across both sexes, our 
meta-analyses identified multiple differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between 
AD and NCI that are either altered in only one sex or show different effects 
between sexes. Some genes are known AD genes from genetic studies, but others 
are novel. Correlation with proteomic data suggests that these transcriptional 
differences have functional significance, potentially contributing to the 
biological mechanisms underlying sex differences observed in AD. Finally, we 
identify drug compounds that are potential candidates for treatment.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings enhance our understanding of sex-related 
differences in disease etiology and progression, and underscore the importance 
of incorporating sex as a critical variable in transcriptomic studies of AD. 
These insights help pave the way for more precise, personalized medicine 
approaches that account for sex-specific molecular mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.25.661596
PMCID: PMC12262414
PMID: 40667349


79. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 27:2025.06.23.661111. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.23.661111.

Structure-specific Mini-Prion Model for Alzheimer's Disease Tau Fibrils.

Vijayan V(1), Merz GE(2)(3), Tsay K(1), Longhini AP(4)(5), Lobo S(6), Quddus 
A(2), Nakagawa KLS(7), Vigers MP(8), Melo AA(2), Tse E(2)(3), Shea JE(1)(9), 
Shell MS(6), Kosik KS(4)(5), Southworth DR(2)(10), Han S(1)(4)(6)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa 
Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA, USA.
(2)Institute for Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Neuroscience Research Institute, University of California Santa Barbara, 
Santa Barbara, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, University of 
California Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California, Santa Barbara, 
Santa Barbara, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Biological Sciences, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, 
USA.
(8)Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, USA.
(9)Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, Santa 
Barbara, CA, USA.
(10)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.

A critical discovery of the past decade is that tau protein fibrils adopt 
disease-specific hallmark structures in each tauopathy. The faithful generation 
of synthetic fibrils adopting hallmark structures that can serve as targets for 
developing diagnostic and/or therapeutic strategies remains a grand challenge. 
We report on a rational design of synthetic fibrils built of a short peptide 
that adopts a critical structural motif in tauopathy fibrils found in 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE). They serve 
as minimal prions with exquisite seeding competency, in vitro and in tau 
biosensor cells, for recruiting tau constructs ten times larger its size en 
route to AD or CTE fibril structures. We demonstrate that the generation of AD 
and CTE-like fibril structures is dramatically catalyzed in the presence of 
mini-AD prions and further influenced by salt composition in solution. Double 
Electron-Electron Resonance studies confirmed the preservation of AD-like folds 
across multi-generational seeding. Fibrils formed with the full AD/CTE-like core 
show strong seeding competency, with their templating effect dominating over the 
choice of salt composition that tunes the initial selection of AD- and CTE-like 
fibril populations. The mini-AD prions serve as a potent catalyst with 
templating capabilities that offer a novel strategy to design pathological tau 
fibril models.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.23.661111
PMCID: PMC12262644
PMID: 40667213

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interest Statement: K.S.K. consults 
for ADRx and Expansion Therapeutics and is a member of the Tau Consortium Board 
of Directors. V.V., S.L., A.L., K.T., K.K., and S.H. have filed for a patent 
based on the design of tau peptides presented in this paper. Patent information: 
Disc-ID-24–06-12–001.


80. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jun 18:2025.06.17.659820. doi: 
10.1101/2025.06.17.659820.

Population-specific brain charts reveal Chinese-Western differences in 
neurodevelopmental trajectories.

Sun L(1)(2)(3), Qin W(4), Liang X(1)(2)(3), Wang C(5)(6), Men W(7)(8), Duan 
Y(9), Fan XR(1), Cai Q(10), Qiu S(11)(12), Wang M(13), Gong Q(14)(15)(16), Tian 
Y(17)(18)(19), Liang P(20), Liu Z(21), Zhang X(22), Song H(22), Ye Z(23)(24), 
Zhang P(23)(24), Dong Q(1), Tao S(1), Zhu W(25), Zhang J(1)(3), Xie F(26), Feng 
J(27)(28)(29), Zhang J(30), Liu C(1)(3)(31), Qian Q(32)(33)(34)(35), Zhang 
B(36)(37)(38)(39), Meng M(40)(41)(42)(43)(44), Hu L(45)(46), Gao JH(7), Jiang 
T(47), Zhu X(48), Zhang Y(1), Liu L(49), Liu H(50), Liao W(51)(52), Wang 
D(53)(54)(55)(56), Wang H(34)(35)(57)(58), Guo T(59), Dai Z(60), Lui S(61), Xu 
K(62), Li L(63)(64), Xie P(65)(66), Feng C(40)(41)(42)(43)(44), Cui G(67), Wu 
J(68)(69)(70), Yin X(71), Ding G(1)(3), Xian J(72), Zhao L(73), Lu J(74), Liu 
Z(75), Han Y(76), Yuan Z(77), Zhang X(40)(41)(42)(43)(44), Si T(32)(33)(34)(35), 
Zhou F(78), Bi Y(1)(3)(79)(80)(81)(82), Wu D(83), Gao F(84), Wang F(85), Qin 
S(1)(86), Wang G(87), Chen F(88), Zhang Z(89)(90), Sui J(1)(3), Chen H(91), Cai 
J(92), Liu S(93), Geng Z(94), Zhang C(95), Mao N(96)(97)(98), Yin H(99), Liu 
B(100), Ma H(96), Gao B(101), Miao Y(102), Kong XZ(103)(104)(105), Zhou 
Y(45)(46), Liu L(1)(3), Hu J(106), Wang L(45)(46), Zhang Q(107), Shu H(1)(108), 
Wang P(109)(110), Lee TMC(111), Cao Q(32)(33)(34)(35)(112), Yang 
L(32)(33)(34)(35)(112), Zhang X(113), Luo W(114)(115), Liang M(4), Yao H(116), 
Li M(117), Huang H(118)(119), Peng Y(120), Han Z(1)(108), Zhou C(121), Xu 
H(122), Feng M(123), Shen W(124), Hu Y(125), Chen H(126), Wang Y(127), Gong 
G(1)(2)(3)(86), Yan Z(128), Xu X(129), Liu J(130), Chen G(131), Wang P(132), 
Yang Y(133), Yao D(134), Han T(135), He H(136), Chen C(137), Zou Q(7), Liu 
H(138), Zhang H(139), Chai C(124), Lu C(1)(3), Tu Y(45)(46), Liu Y(140), Lin 
D(141), Zhao W(142), Xu X(143), Liu X(144), Cui Z(86), Wang Z(145)(146), Huang 
R(40)(41)(42)(43)(44), Li Z(147), Liu Y(1)(3)(86), Li X(148), Yang X(108)(149), 
Zhang N(150), Chen A(151), Zhang B(152), Qin P(40)(43), Liu C(153), Yao Z(154), 
Wei Y(155), Yuan H(156), Wang F(157), Zhang Y(158), Zhang Q(159), Hu F(160), Xie 
H(161), Wu X(162), Wang J(163), Fan G(164), Wang Z(165), Zhang D(166), Zhong 
H(167), Wang Y(168), Bai L(169), Li Y(170), Wei X(171), Wang J(172), Zhang 
Y(173), He H(174), Li S(1), Zhang T(175), Jiang F(176)(177)(178), Yang J(179), 
Chen F(174), Liu F(4), Liu H(4), Chen N(180)(181), Yang J(182)(183), Hou B(21), 
Huang CC(10)(184), Zhu J(185), Cai H(185), Wei D(186)(187), Chen Q(186)(187), 
Wei Y(6), Miao P(6), Li Y(188)(189), Liu Y(9), Yang N(1), Gao X(10), Liu Y(11), 
Shen Y(13), Huang X(14)(15)(16), Ji GJ(19); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative, CHIMGEN Consortium, DIDA-MDD Working Group, MCADI, Chinese Lifespan 
Brain Mapping Consortium; Zhang L(190), Qiu J(186)(187), Yu Y(185), Lin CP(191), 
Feng F(21), Li K(180)(181), Yu C(4), He Y(1)(2)(3)(86).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Brain Imaging and Connectomics, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.
(3)IDG/McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, 
Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Radiology/Tianjin Key Lab of Functional Imaging/Tianjin 
Institute of Radiology/State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, Tianjin 
Medical University General Hospital, Tianjin, China.
(5)Department of Medical Imaging, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China.
(6)Department of MRI, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(7)Center for MRI Research, Academy for Advanced Interdisciplinary Studies, 
Peking University, Beijing, China.
(8)Beijing City Key Laboratory for Medical Physics and Engineering, Institute of 
Heavy Ion Physics, School of Physics, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(9)Department of Radiology, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(10)School of Psychology and Cognitive Science, East China Normal University, 
Shanghai, China.
(11)Department of Radiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China.
(12)State Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Syndrome, Guangzhou, 
China.
(13)Zhengzhou University People's Hospital & Henan Provincial People's Hospital, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(14)Department of Radiology, Huaxi MR Research Center (HMRRC), Institute of 
Radiology, Functional and Molecular Imaging Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, 
West China Hospital of Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(15)Research Unit of Psychoradiology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Chengdu, China.
(16)Xiamen Key Laboratory of Psychoradiology and Neuromodulation, Department of 
Radiology, West China Xiamen Hospital of Sichuan University, Xiamen, China.
(17)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, China.
(18)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Cognition and Neuropsychiatric Disorders, 
Hefei, China.
(19)School of Mental Health and Psychological Sciences, Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, China.
(20)School of Psychology, Capital Normal University, Beijing, China.
(21)Department of Radiology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(22)Division of Life Science and Medicine, University of Science & Technology of 
China, Hefei, China.
(23)Department of Radiology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute & 
Hospital, National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Tianjin, China.
(24)State Key Laboratory of Druggability Evaluation and Systematic Translational 
Medicine, Tianjin, China.
(25)Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan, China.
(26)Department of Nuclear Medicine & PET Center, Huashan Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China.
(27)Institute of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired Intelligence/Key 
Laboratory of Computational Neuroscience and Brain-Inspired Intelligence 
(Ministry of Education), Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(28)Department of Computer Science, University of Warwick, Warwick, United 
Kingdom.
(29)Fudan ISTBI-ZJNU Algorithm Centre for Brain-inspired Intelligence, Zhejiang 
Normal University, Hangzhou, China.
(30)Department of Magnetic Resonance, Lanzhou University Second Hospital, 
Lanzhou, China.
(31)Beijing Key Laboratory of Safe AI and Superalignment, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.
(32)Peking University Sixth Hospital, Beijing, China.
(33)Peking University Institute of Mental Health, Beijing, China.
(34)NHC Key Laboratory of Mental Health (Peking University), Beijing, China.
(35)National Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders (Peking University 
Sixth Hospital), Beijing, China.
(36)Department of Radiology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of 
Medical School, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.
(37)Institute of Medical Imaging and Artificial Intelligence, Nanjing 
University, Nanjing, China.
(38)Institute of Brain Science, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.
(39)Medical Imaging Center, Affiliated Drum Tower Hospital, Medical School of 
Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.
(40)Key Laboratory of Brain, Cognition and Education Sciences (South China 
Normal University), Ministry of Education, Guangzhou, China.
(41)School of Psychology, South China Normal University, Guangzhou, China.
(42)Center for Studies of Psychological Application, South China Normal 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(43)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Mental Health and Cognitive Science, South China 
Normal University, Guangzhou, China.
(44)Philosophy and Social Science Laboratory of Reading and Development in 
Children and Adolescents (South China Normal University), Ministry of Education, 
Guangzhou, China.
(45)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Science and Mental Health, Institute of 
Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(46)Department of Psychology, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, China.
(47)Beijing Key Laboratory of Brainnetome and Brain-Computer Interface, 
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(48)Medical Psychological Center, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, China.
(49)Science and Education Department, The First Psychiatric Hospital of Harbin, 
Harbin, China.
(50)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(51)Department of Radiology/National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric 
Disorders/National Engineering Research Center of Personalized Diagnostic and 
Therapeutic Technology/Hunan Engineering Research Center for Intelligent Medical 
Imaging, Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, Changsha, China.
(52)FuRong Laboratory, Changsha, China.
(53)Department of Radiology, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Ji'nan, 
China.
(54)Qilu Medical Imaging Institute of Shandong University, Ji'nan, China.
(55)Institute of Magnetic Field-free Medicine and Functional Imaging, Shandong 
University, Ji'nan, China.
(56)Shandong Key Laboratory for Magnetic Field-free Medicine and Functional 
Imaging, Ji'nan, China.
(57)Dementia Care and Research Center, Peking University Institute of Mental 
Health (Sixth Hospital), Beijing, China.
(58)Beijing Municipal Key Laboratory for Translational Research on Diagnosis and 
Treatment of Dementia, Beijing, China.
(59)Shenzhen Bay Laboratory, Shenzhen, China.
(60)Department of Psychology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(61)Department of Radiology, and Functional and Molecular Imaging Key Laboratory 
of Sichuan Province, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China; 
Research Unit of Psychoradiology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Chengdu, 
China.
(62)Department of Radiology, The Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou Medical 
University, Xuzhou, China.
(63)Department of Psychiatry, and National Clinical Research Center for Mental 
Disorders, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, Changsha, 
China.
(64)Mental Health Institute of Central South University, China National 
Technology Institute on Mental Disorders, Hunan Technology Institute of 
Psychiatry, Hunan Key Laboratory of Psychiatry and Mental Health, Hunan Medical 
Center for Mental Health, Changsha, China.
(65)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Neurobiology, Chongqing, China.
(66)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(67)Department of Radiology & Functional and Molecular Imaging Key Lab of 
Shaanxi Province, Tangdu Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University (Air Force 
Medical University), Xi'an, China.
(68)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(69)National Center for Neurological Disorders, Shanghai, China.
(70)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Clinical and Translational Brain-Computer 
Interface Research, Shanghai, China.
(71)Department of Medical Imaging, Guizhou Rehabilitation Hospital, Guiyang, 
China.
(72)Department of Radiology, Capital Medical University-Beijing Tongren 
Hospital, Beijing, China.
(73)Gansu Provincial Hospital, Lanzhou, China.
(74)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine/Beijing Key Laboratory of 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Brain Informatics, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing, China.
(75)Psychiatry Department, First Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, 
China.
(76)Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(77)Centre for Cognitive and Brain Sciences/Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Macau, Macau, China.
(78)Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory for Precision Pathology and Intelligent 
Diagnosis, Department of Radiology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Jiangxi 
Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(79)School of Psychological and Cognitive Sciences and Beijing Key Laboratory of 
Behavior and Mental Health, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(80)IDG/McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.
(81)Institute for Artificial Intelligence, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(82)Key Laboratory of Machine Perception (Ministry of Education), Peking 
University, Beijing, China.
(83)College of Biomedical Engineering and Instrument Science, Zhejiang 
University.
(84)Department of Radiology, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong 
First Medical University, Ji'nan, China.
(85)The Affiliated Brain Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.
(86)Chinese Institute for Brain Research, Beijing, China.
(87)Addiction Department, Wuhan Mental Health Center, Wuhan, China.
(88)Department of Radiology, Hainan General Hospital, Haikou, China.
(89)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Affiliated Jinling Hospital, Medical 
School of Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.
(90)State Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science, Nanjing 
University, Nanjing, China.
(91)Sichuan Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain-Computer Interface and 
Brain-inspired intelligence/School of Life Science and Technology, University of 
Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, China.
(92)Department of Radiology, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(93)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Shandong Key Laboratory of Mental 
Disorders, Institute for Sectional Anatomy and Digital Human, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Institute of Brain and Brain- Inspired Science, Cheeloo 
College of Medicine, Shandong University, Ji'nan, China.
(94)Department of Medical Imaging, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, China.
(95)Department of Psychiatry, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai, China.
(96)Department of Radiology, Yantai Yuhuangding Hospital, Qingdao University, 
Yantai, China.
(97)Big Data and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Yantai Yuhuangding 
Hospital, Qingdao University, Yantai, China.
(98)Shandong Provincial Key Medical and Health Laboratory of Intelligent 
Diagnosis and Treatment for Women's Diseases, Yantai Yuhuangding Hospital, 
Qingdao University, Yantai, China.
(99)Medical Imaging Center, People's Hospital Affiliated to Northwest 
University, Xi'an, China.
(100)Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China.
(101)Department of Radiology, Affiliated Hospital of Guizhou Medical University, 
Guiyang, China.
(102)Department of Radiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, Dalian, China.
(103)Department of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(104)The State Key Lab of Brain-Machine Intelligence, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(105)Department of Psychiatry of Sir Run Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(106)Department of Radiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, China.
(107)Department of Radiology, Characteristic Medical Center of Chinese People's 
Armed Police Force, Tianjin, China.
(108)Faculty of Psychology, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China.
(109)Department of Medical Imaging, Tongji Hospital, School of Medicine, Tongji 
University, Shanghai, China.
(110)Institute of Medical Imaging Artificial Intelligence, Tongji University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(111)Laboratory of Neuropsychology and Human Neuroscience, Department of 
Psychology, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(112)Beijing Key Laboratory for Big Data Innovative Application of Child and 
Adolescent Mental Disorders, Beijing, China.
(113)Department of Neurology, The Second Medical Centre, National Clinical 
Research Centre for Geriatric Diseases, Chinese PLA General Hospital, Beijing, 
China.
(114)Institute of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Liaoning Normal University, 
Dalian, China.
(115)Key Laboratory of Brain and Cognitive Neuroscience, Liaoning Province, 
Dalian, China.
(116)Department of Radiology of the Second Medical Centre, National Clinical 
Research Centre for Geriatric Diseases, Chinese PLA General Hospital, Beijing, 
China.
(117)Department of Medical Imaging, The Affiliated Guangdong Second Provincial 
General Hospital of Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
(118)Department of Radiology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, 
PA, United States.
(119)Department of Radiology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States.
(120)Department of Radiology, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, National Center for Children's Health, Beijing, China.
(121)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, Nanjing Brain Hospital Affiliated to 
Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.
(122)Department of Radiology/Hubei Provincial Engineering Research Center of 
Multimodal Medical Imaging Technology and Clinical Application, Zhongnan 
Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(123)Department of Neurosurgery, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Beijing, 
China.
(124)Department of Radiology, Tianjin First Central Hospital, Tianjin, China.
(125)Zhejiang University, Department of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, 
Hangzhou, China.
(126)Department of Radiology, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, 
China.
(127)Medical Imaging Center, First Affiliated Hospital of Jinan University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(128)Department of Radiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, China.
(129)Department of Radiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(130)Department of Radiology, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, China.
(131)Department of Radiology, The Affiliated Hospital of Southwest Medical 
University, Luzhou, China.
(132)Tianjin Huanhu Hospital, Tianjin, China.
(133)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital 
of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(134)The Clinical Hospital of Chengdu Brain Science Institute, School of Life 
Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science and Technology of 
China, Chengdu, China.
(135)Department of Radiology, Tianjin Huanhu Hospital, Tianjin, China.
(136)State Key Laboratory of Brain Cognition and Brain-inspired Intelligence 
Technology, Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(137)Wenzhou Seventh Peoplès Hospital, Wenzhou, China.
(138)Changping Laboratory, Beijing, China.
(139)Department of Radiology, The First Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, 
Taiyuan, China.
(140)Center for Artificial Intelligence in Medical Imaging, School of Artificial 
Intelligence, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, 
China.
(141)Institute of Developmental Psychology, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, 
China.
(142)School of life Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, Chengdu, China.
(143)The First Affiliated Hospital of Kunming Medical University, Kunming, 
China.
(144)Zhejiang Hospital, Hangzhou, China.
(145)School of Psychological and Cognitive Sciences, Beijing Key Laboratory of 
Behavior and Mental Health, State Key Laboratory of General Artificial 
Intelligence, IDG/McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Peking-Tsinghua Center 
for Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(146)School of Biomedical Engineering, Hainan University, Haikou, China.
(147)Center of Clinical Psychology, Beijing Anding Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(148)Qianjiang Hospital, Chongqing University, Chongqing, China.
(149)Beijing Key Laboratory of Applied Experimental Psychology, National 
Demonstration Center for Experimental Psychology Education, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.
(150)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(151)Brain Health Institute, National Center for Mental Disorders, Shanghai 
Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine and 
School of Psychology, Shanghai, China.
(152)Tianjin Anding Hospital, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
(153)7T Magnetic Resonance Translational Medicine Research Center, Department of 
Radiology, Southwest Hospital, Army Medical University (Third Military Medical 
University), Chongqing, China.
(154)Department of Radiology, Fudan University Huashan Hospital, Shanghai, 
China.
(155)Cognitive Science and Allied Health School/Institute of Life and Health 
Sciences/Key Laboratory of Language and Cognitive Science (Ministry of 
Education)/Center for Cognitive Science of Language, Beijing Language and 
Culture University, Beijing, China.
(156)Department of Radiology, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing, China.
(157)Division of CT and MRI, The First Affiliated Hospital of Heilongjiang 
University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, China.
(158)Zhejiang Laboratory, Hangzhou, China.
(159)Department of Radiology, Tianjin Key Lab of Functional Imaging, Tianjin 
Institute of Radiology& State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, Tianjin 
Medical University General Hospital, Tianjin, China.
(160)College of medical imaging laboratory and rehabilitation/Key Laboratory of 
Medical Imaging and Artificial Intelligence of Hunan Province, Xiangnan 
University, Chenzhou, China.
(161)Army Medical Center of PLA, Chongqing, China.
(162)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(163)State Key Laboratory of Primate Biomedical Research/Institute of Primate 
Translational Medicine, Kunming University of Science and Technology, Kunming, 
China.
(164)Department of Radiology, First Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, China.
(165)Aerospace Center Hospital, Beijing, China.
(166)Department of Neurology, China National Clinical Research Center for 
Neurological Diseases, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(167)Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Department, Hefei City Fourth People's 
Hospital, Hefei, China.
(168)Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Beijing, China.
(169)The Key Laboratory of Biomedical Information Engineering, Ministry of 
Education, Department of Biomedical Engineering, School of Life Science and 
Technology, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.
(170)Department of Radiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(171)Department of Radiology, Guangzhou First People's Hospital, School of 
Medicine, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou, China.
(172)Institute for Brain Research and Rehabilitation, South China Normal 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(173)Center for Brain Imaging, School of Life Science and Technology, Xidian 
University, Xi'an, China.
(174)School of Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(175)The Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, China.
(176)Department of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics and Pediatric 
Translational Medicine Institute and Shanghai Key Laboratory of Child Brain and 
Development, National Children's Medical Center, Shanghai Children's Medical 
Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(177)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Children's Environmental Health, 
Xinhua Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 
China.
(178)Shanghai Center for Brain Science and Brain-Inspired Technology, Shanghai, 
China.
(179)Department of Radiology, The first Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China.
(180)Department of Radiology and Nuclear medicine, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing, China.
(181)Beijing Key Laboratory of Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Brain Informatics, 
Beijing, China.
(182)Key Laboratory of Intelligent Computing in Medical Image of Ministry of 
Education, School of Computer Science and Engineering, Northeastern University, 
Shenyang, China.
(183)National Frontiers Science Center for Industrial Intelligence and Systems 
Optimization, Shenyang, China.
(184)Institute of Aging, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China.
(185)Department of Radiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, China.
(186)Faculty of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing, China.
(187)Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality (Ministry of Education), 
Southwest University, Chongqing, China.
(188)Department of Neurology, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, Fudan University Pudong 
Medical Center, Shanghai, China.
(189)Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, School of Medicine, Tongji 
University, Shanghai, China.
(190)Department of Radiology, Jinling Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of Medical 
School, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.
(191)Institute of Neuroscience, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, 
Taipei, China.

Human brain charts provide unprecedented opportunities for decoding 
neurodevelopmental milestones and establishing clinical benchmarks for precision 
brain medicine 1-7. However, current lifespan brain charts are primarily derived 
from European and North American cohorts, with Asian populations severely 
underrepresented. Here, we present the first population-specific brain charts 
for China, developed through the Chinese Lifespan Brain Mapping Consortium 
(Phase I) using neuroimaging data from 43,037 participants (aged 0-100 years) 
across 384 sites nationwide. We establish the lifespan normative trajectories 
for 296 structural brain phenotypes, encompassing global, subcortical, and 
cortical measures. Cross-population comparisons with Western brain charts (based 
on data from 56,339 participants aged 0-100 years) reveal distinct 
neurodevelopmental patterns in the Chinese population, including prolonged 
cortical and subcortical maturation, accelerated cerebellar growth, and earlier 
development of sensorimotor regions relative to paralimbic regions. Crucially, 
these Chinese-specific charts outperform Western-derived models in predicting 
healthy brain phenotypes and detecting pathological deviations in Chinese 
clinical cohorts. These findings highlight the urgent need for diverse, 
population-representative brain charts to advance equitable precision 
neuroscience and improve clinical validity across populations.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.06.17.659820
PMCID: PMC12262810
PMID: 40667167


81. Front Immunol. 2025 Jul 1;16:1455994. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1455994. 
eCollection 2025.

Chronic ethanol administration exacerbates memory loss by altering 
N6-methyladenosine-mediated epigenetic signaling.

Liao Y(#)(1), Xu F(#)(1), Yan Y(#)(1), Zhou S(1)(2), Liu N(2), Dou B(1), 
Srinivasan N(1), Wang W(3), Zhu X(4), Ye J(1), Xu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Rutgers University, the State University of New 
Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, SUNY at Buffalo, 
Buffalo, NY, United States.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, Rutgers University, the State University of New 
Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States.
(4)Department of Pathology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, 
OH, United States.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Chronic alcohol use disorder (AUD) is recognized as one of the most 
critical risk factors for the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Epigenetic and neuroimmune alterations are closely associated with the 
development of memory impairment related to AUD and AD.
METHODS: Adult APP/PS1 transgenic mice received intermittently intraperitoneal 
injections of ethanol (EtOH, 2.5 g/kg, i.p.) or vehicle with two "drug" 
treatment days, and one and two "drug-free" days every 7 days for 10 weeks. The 
novel object recognition (NOR) and Y-maze tests were performed to determine 
whether chronic ethanol treatment exacerbated memory impairment in these mice. 
The brain tissues were collected for pathological changes through 
MeRIP/RNA-sequence analyses and molecular biological assays.
RESULTS: The results suggested that chronic intermittent ethanol (CIE) treatment 
for 10 weeks exacerbated sporadic and spatial memory deficits in NOR and Y-maze 
tests in the APP/PS1 mice. The pathological assays revealed that CIE procedure 
increased Aβ plaque burden in the brain of the AD mice, which were consistent 
with memory behavioral deficits. The subsequent MeRIP/RNA sequence analyses 
showed that two genes, e.g. Rbm15b and Hnrnpa2b1, were related to 
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation that plays an important role in the 
development of memory loss. These results were further supported by molecular 
biological and mRNA-microRNA-lncRNA ceRNA network analyses that demonstrated 
that the increased Rbm15b and decreased Hnrnpa2b1 were involved in synaptic 
dysfunction and neuroinflammation in CIE-induced memory impairment in these AD 
mice.
CONCLUSIONS: The conclusion is drawn that m6A mediated epigenetic dysfunction 
and immune cells infiltration participate in chronic alcohol use disorder 
related memory loss in AD mice.

Copyright © 2025 Liao, Xu, Yan, Zhou, Liu, Dou, Srinivasan, Wang, Zhu, Ye and 
Xu.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1455994
PMCID: PMC12259454
PMID: 40666518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted without any commercial or financial relationships that could 
potentially create a conflict of interest.


82. Front Psychiatry. 2025 Jul 1;16:1570594. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1570594. 
eCollection 2025.

Cognition in virtual reality: assessing user acceptability and feasibility of 
virtual reality cognitive screening for older adults.

Lai FH(1)(2), Yee BK(2)(3), Wang EHJ(3), Butler J(4), Graham A(5), Hai EY(6), 
Darling C(1), Whittington S(1), Lowe JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work, Education and Community Wellbeing, Faculty of 
Health and Life Sciences, Northumbria University, Newcastle, United Kingdom.
(2)Mental Health Research Centre, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(4)School of Psychology, University of Sunderland, Sunderland, United Kingdom.
(5)School of Health & Life Sciences, Teesside University, Middlesbrough, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Faculty of Health Sciences and Wellbeing, University of Sunderland, 
Sunderland, United Kingdom.

INTRODUCTION: The global demographic shift towards an older population 
necessitates innovative methods to assess cognitive abilities, particularly 
spatial working memory, which is crucial for daily living and early detection of 
neurocognitive conditions like Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: This qualitative study utilised the Virtual Reality Working Memory Task 
(VRWMT), a semi-immersive VR activity using keyboard navigation, to assess 
spatial working memory in older adults. Participants were recruited from 
community centres and categorised by age and technological familiarity. Focus 
groups evaluated user perceptions based on the Technology Acceptance Model 
constructs: Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, Attitude Toward Usage, 
and Behavioural Intention to Use. The study aimed to assess the acceptability 
and feasibility of VRWMT across diverse populations, examining its navigational 
simplicity, emotional engagement, and willingness to endorse VRWMT for routine 
cognitive assessments.
RESULTS: Findings indicated significant variations in perceived usefulness, ease 
of use, attitude toward using, and behavioural intention to use across different 
age groups and socio-demographic characteristics. High-technology-familiarity 
participants found VRWMT easy to use and engaging, while those with low 
familiarity struggled with navigation and engagement. Socio-demographic factors 
such as limited digital literacy and lack of standby support impact technology 
adoption. Higher technological familiarity leads to better acceptance and 
feasibility of VRWMT.
DISCUSSION: VRWMT can enhance cognitive health monitoring and therapeutic 
interventions. The results highlighted that personalised pathways and 
user-friendly interfaces can improve accessibility and engagement, making VRWMT 
a valuable tool for cognitive assessments, as part of Occupational Therapy, in 
diverse populations.

Copyright © 2025 Lai, Yee, Wang, Butler, Graham, Hai, Darling, Whittington and 
Lowe.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1570594
PMCID: PMC12261108
PMID: 40666434

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


83. Iran J Basic Med Sci. 2025;28(5):553-564. doi:
10.22038/ijbms.2025.82302.17799.

Bacterial endotoxin-lipopolysaccharide role in inflammatory diseases: An 
overview.

Arya P(1), Sharma V(1), Singh P(2), Thapliyal S(3), Sharma M(2).

Author information:
(1)Galgotias College of Pharmacy, Greater Noida, U.P., India.
(2)Banasthali Vidyapith, Department of Pharmacy, Rajasthan, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Rishikesh 249203, India.

Despite advancements in antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory treatments, 
inflammation and its repercussions continue to pose a considerable challenge in 
medicine. Acute inflammation may cause life-threatening conditions like septic 
shock, while chronic inflammation leads to tissue degeneration and impaired 
function. Lipopolysaccharides (LPS), a well-known pathogenic trigger 
contributing to several dysfunctions, is a crucial part of the outer membrane of 
gr-negative bacteria. LPS are well-known for eliciting acute inflammatory 
responses by activating a pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP), which 
stimulates the innate immune system and triggers local or systemic inflammatory 
responses. LPS also activate numerous intracellular molecules that modulate the 
expression of a wide range of inflammatory mediators. These mediators 
subsequently initiate or exacerbate various inflammatory processes. Beyond 
immune cells, LPS can also activate non-immune cells, leading to inflammatory 
reactions. These excessive inflammatory responses are often detrimental and 
typically result in chronic and progressive inflammatory diseases, including 
neurodegenerative, cardiovascular diseases, and cancer. This review delves into 
the mechanisms by which the bacterial endotoxin LPS contribute to multiple 
inflammatory diseases. These insights into LPS signaling pathways could inform 
the design of new treatment strategies such as TLR4, NLRP3, HMGA1, MAPK, and 
NF-kB inhibitors. This enables precise targeting of inflammation-related 
processes in disease management.

© 2025. This work is openly licensed via CC BY 4.0.

DOI: 10.22038/ijbms.2025.82302.17799
PMCID: PMC12258786
PMID: 40666174

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


84. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70483. doi: 10.1002/alz.70483.

Alzheimer's disease and its co-pathologies: Implications for hippocampal 
degeneration, cognitive decline, and the role of APOE ε4.

Gawor K(1), Verrept S(1), Arekatla G(2), Wouters D(3), Ronisz A(1), Hecht M(4), 
Laureyssen C(5)(6), Donck HV(1), Lahaije B(1), Ospitalieri S(1), Vandenbulcke 
M(7), Otto M(8)(9), von Arnim CAF(8)(10), Ghebremedhin E(11), Hanseeuw B(12), 
Vandenberghe R(13)(14), Blaschko M(15), Sifrim A(3), Sleegers K(5)(6), Thal 
DR(1)(16), Tomé SO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Imaging and Pathology, Laboratory of Neuropathology, KU Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Laboratory of Neurobiology, KU Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, Laboratory of Multi-omic Integrative 
Bioinformatics, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Laboratory of Neuropathology, Institute of Pathology, Ulm University, Ulm, 
Germany.
(5)Complex Genetics of Alzheimer's Disease Group, VIB Center for Molecular 
Neurology, VIB, Antwerp, Belgium.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(7)Department of Neuroscience, Laboratory for Translational Neuropsychiatry, KU 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(8)Department of Neurology, Ulm University, Ulm, Germany.
(9)Department of Neurology, University of Halle, Halle, Germany.
(10)Department of Geriatrics, University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen, 
Germany.
(11)Institute of Anatomy, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany.
(12)Institute of Neuroscience, UCLouvain, Brussels, Belgium.
(13)Department of Neurology, UZ Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(14)Department of Neurosciences, Laboratory for Cognitive Neurology, KU Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(15)Department of Electrical Engineering, Processing Speech and Images, KU 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(16)Department of Pathology, UZ Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: In neurodegenerative dementias, the co-occurrence and interaction 
of amyloid β peptide (Aβ), tau pathology, and other pathological lesions 
confound their individual contributions to neurodegeneration and their 
modulation by risk factors.
METHODS: We analyzed 480 post mortem human brains (ages 50-99) using regression 
and structural equation models to assess the relationships among Aβ, tau, 
limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathological changes 
(LATE-NC), α-synuclein, other age-related lesions, and apolipoprotein E (APOE) 
ε4, as well as their effects on CA1 neuronal density, brain weight, and 
cognitive status.
RESULTS: Aβ, tau, LATE-NC, and amygdala-predominant α-synuclein pathology were 
mutually interdependent. Tau was the strongest predictor of global 
neurodegeneration, while LATE-NC primarily, but not exclusively, affected 
hippocampal neuron loss. Small vessel disease correlated with both LATE-NC and 
α-synuclein, while APOE ε4 was mainly associated with extracellular parenchymal 
and capillary Aβ pathology.
DISCUSSION: Although Alzheimer's disease pathology plays a central role in brain 
degeneration, coexisting pathologies can both exacerbate and independently 
contribute to it. These factors should be considered in patient stratification.
HIGHLIGHTS: In aging individuals, amyloid β peptide (Aβ), tau pathology, 
limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathological changes 
(LATE-NC), and amygdala-predominant α-synuclein pathology were interrelated but 
contributed independently to neurodegeneration. LATE-NC was the strongest driver 
of CA1 neuronal loss, while tau burden was the strongest predictor of global 
brain degeneration. Apolipoprotein E ε4 was associated with both extracellular 
and capillary Aβ deposits, but not with tau burden. Temporal lobe small vessel 
disease was associated with both LATE-NC and amygdala-predominant α-synuclein 
pathology. Neural network models can reliably identify hippocampal pyramidal 
neurons on hematoxylin-stained histological slides.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70483
PMCID: PMC12263346
PMID: 40665478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DRT and SOT received consultant honoraria from 
Muna Therapeutics (Belgium). DRT collaborated with Novartis Pharma AG 
(Switzerland), and GE Healthcare (UK). CAFvA has received honoraria for serving 
on the scientific advisory board of Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisk, BioNTech, 
Lilly, Dr Willmar Schwabe GmbH & Co.KG and MindAhead UG. Additionally, CAFvA has 
received travel funding and speaker honoraria from Biogen, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, 
Roche Diagnostics AG, Novartis, Medical Tribune Verlagsgesellschaft mbH, 
Landesvereinigung für Gesundheit und Akademie für Sozialmedizin Niedersachsen e. 
V., FomF GmbH | Forum für medizinische Fortbildung, and Dr Willmar Schwabe GmbH 
& Co.KG. Research support was received from Roche Diagnostics AG, and funding 
was provided by the Innovationsfond (Fund of the Federal Joint Committee, 
Gemeinsamer Bundesausschuss, G‐BA; Grants No. VF1_2016‐201; 01NVF21010; 
01VSF21019). MO has provided scientific advice to Fujirebio, Roche, Biogen, 
Lilly, and Axon. RV's institution has clinical trial agreements (RV as PI) with 
Alector, AviadoBio, Biogen, Denali, J&J, Eli Lilly, and UCB. RV's institution 
has consultancy agreements (RV as member of DSMB) with AC Immune. All other 
authors had nothing to disclose. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


85. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70464. doi: 10.1002/alz.70464.

Focused ultrasound-mediated APOE4 knockdown in mouse brain.

Zheng K(1), Tsitsos FN(1), Batts AJ(1), Ji R(1), Nuriel T(2)(3), Konofagou 
EE(1)(4), Leong KW(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, New 
York, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, New York, USA.
(3)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New 
York, USA.
(5)Department of Systems Biology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, 
New York, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 allele is widely recognized as the 
strongest genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease. Therapeutic 
strategies to reduce apoE4 expression in APOE ε4 carriers hold promise to 
mitigate neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative processes driving disease 
progression.
METHODS: Focused ultrasound (FUS) was employed to transiently open the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) for efficient knockdown of humanized APOE ε4 in the 
mouse brain via gene editing. The all-in-one clustered regularly interspaced 
short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-based adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors 
were administered intravenously at a dose of 1.5×1012 vg per mouse to determine 
the gene-editing efficacy within the hippocampus.
RESULTS: FUS-enhanced delivery of AAV resulted in a 12.6% knockdown of APOE ε4 
gene expression in the targeted hippocampus, accompanied by an over 20% decrease 
in apoE4 protein levels and significant reductions in astrocyte and microglia 
levels.
DISCUSSION: Our findings demonstrate a noninvasive, targeted approach for APOE 
ε4 knockdown, highlighting FUS-mediated brain-directed interventions as a 
promising therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's disease.
HIGHLIGHTS: Focused ultrasound (FUS) enables noninvasive, transient blood-brain 
barrier (BBB) opening for enhanced adeno-associated virus (AAV) delivery. 
FUS-mediated gene editing achieves a 12.6% knockdown in APOE ε4 expression 
within the hippocampus of mouse brain. APOE ε4 knockdown significantly reduces 
apoE4 protein levels and astrocyte and microglia levels. No detectable gross 
toxicity was observed following the FUS-mediated gene editing.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70464
PMCID: PMC12263348
PMID: 40665471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Some of the work presented herein is supported 
by patents optioned to Delsona Therapeutics, Inc., where Elisa E. Konofagou 
serves as a co‐founder and scientific adviser. The remaining authors declare 
that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in supporting information.


86. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Jul 15;17(1):160. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01804-9.

Combinatorial targeting of NMDARs and 5-HT(4)Rs exerts beneficial effects in a 
mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Chen BK(#)(1)(2), Hunsberger HC(#)(2)(3)(4), Whye A(3)(5), Matthews LC(3)(6), 
Yook A(3), Willner MJ(1)(2)(7), Logan RW(8), Johns S(9), Weisblum E(9), Denny 
CA(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Doctoral Program in Neurobiology and Behavior (NB&B), Columbia University, 
New York, NY, 10027, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), 
NYSPI Kolb Research Annex, 1051 Riverside Drive, Unit 87, New York, NY, 10032, 
USA.
(3)Division of Systems Neuroscience, Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, 
Inc. (RFMH)/New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI), New York, NY, 10032, 
USA.
(4)Present address: Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases and Therapeutics, 
Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science / Foundational Sciences and 
Humanities, The Chicago Medical School, North Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Present address: Weil Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Present address: University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(7)Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP), Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center (CUIMC), New York, NY, 10032, USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Massachusetts 
Chan Medical School, Worcester, MA, 01605, USA.
(9)Silo Pharma, Sarasota, FL, 34236, USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), 
NYSPI Kolb Research Annex, 1051 Riverside Drive, Unit 87, New York, NY, 10032, 
USA. cad2125@cumc.columbia.edu.
(11)Division of Systems Neuroscience, Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, 
Inc. (RFMH)/New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI), New York, NY, 10032, 
USA. cad2125@cumc.columbia.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia. There are 
limited approved medications that delay cognitive decline or lessen 
neuropsychiatric symptoms. Numerous clinical trials for AD using a single drug 
administration have failed to meet therapeutic endpoints, which is most likely 
due to the complexity of AD. A multimodal therapeutic intervention is more 
likely to improve symptoms by targeting multiple targets implicated in AD. Here, 
we investigated if targeting both N-Methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors (NMDARs) 
and serotonin type 4 receptors (5-HT4R) may have beneficial effects in a mouse 
model of AD, as they have separately been shown to improve cognition and/or 
mood.
METHODS: Male and female control (Ctrl) or APP/PS1 mice were administered 
single, intermittent, or chronic administration of 1) saline; 2) (R,S)-ketamine, 
an NMDAR antagonist; 3) prucalopride, a 5-HT4R agonist; or 4) 
(R,S)-ketamine + prucalopride to simultaneously target co-morbid 
neuropsychiatric and cognitive deficits. Behavioral assays were then 
administered to measure cognition, perseverative behavior, hyponeophagia, and/or 
sleep. Brains were processed for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) 
immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Single and chronic administration of (R,S)-ketamine + prucalopride 
administration improved cognitive decline by increasing memory retrieval in a 
contextual fear conditioning (CFC) paradigm in APP/PS1 mice. Drug efficacy was 
less effective in females than in males and was age dependent. Hippocampal GFAP 
immunoreactivity was decreased by chronic (R,S)-ketamine + prucalopride 
treatment in females.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that combined administration of 
(R,S)-ketamine + prucalopride is a novel multimodal therapeutic strategy to 
treat cognitive decline in AD. Future work will further characterize these 
interactions with the goal of clinical development.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01804-9
PMCID: PMC12261665
PMID: 40665449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All procedures were conducted in accordance with the National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) regulations and by the Institutional Animal Care and 
Use Committees (IACUCs) of Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) and 
the Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, Inc. (RFMH) at the New York State 
Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI). Competing interests: BKC, HCH, and CAD are named 
on provisional patent applications for the prophylactic use of (R,S)-ketamine, 
5-HT4R agonists, and other compounds against stress-related psychiatric 
disorders and Alzheimer’s disease. SJ is employed by Silo Pharma, and EW is 
founder and Chief Executive Officer of Silo Pharma. AW, LCM, AY, MJW, and RL 
have no conflicts of interest to disclose.


87. J Neuroinflammation. 2025 Jul 15;22(1):183. doi: 10.1186/s12974-025-03501-8.

Ethanol consumption aggravates amyloid pathology and neuroinflammation in 
Alzheimer's disease associated with inflammasome activation and ASC speck 
propagation.

Brezani V(1), Joshi RS(1), Ortega-Ribera M(1), Nagesh PT(1), Brezani V(1), Zivny 
A(1), Kurt-Jones EA(2), Golenbock DT(2), Szabo G(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. gszabo1@bidmc.harvard.edu.
(4)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA. 
gszabo1@bidmc.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND: Alcohol use disorder (AUD) has been associated with Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and dementia, yet the underlying mechanisms and specific role of 
ethanol in AD progression remain poorly understood. Neuroinflammation has 
emerged as a key contributor to both AD pathogenesis and ethanol-induced brain 
damage. Activation of innate immune cells and signaling pathways, in particular 
NLRP3 inflammasome, plays a pivotal role in both AD and ethanol-induced 
inflammation. Thus, we postulated that excessive ethanol consumption could 
contribute to AD progression via amplified neuroinflammation.
METHODS: The 12-15-month-old WT and APP/PS1 mice received water or ethanol (3.5 
g/kg) binge every alternate day for a period of one month. The effects of 
ethanol on amyloid pathology, microglia and astrocyte activation, and NLRP3 
inflammasome activation were evaluated in the mouse brains. The effect of 
ethanol and amyloid β on NLRP3 inflammasome signaling was further studied in 
primary glial cells.
RESULTS: In this study, we show that repeated ethanol binges aggravate the 
amyloid pathology and plaque burden in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice. 
Furthermore, we demonstrate the additive effect of ethanol administration on 
NLRP3 inflammasome activation, IL-1β release, and ASC aggregation in the brains 
of APP/PS1 mice and primary glia cultures. Our study also reveals a strong 
astrocyte activation by ethanol in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice as 
demonstrated by significantly increased GFAP and ALDH1L1 protein levels. Further 
in vitro analysis revealed that ethanol potentiates the effect of amyloid β to 
increase the NLRP3 inflammasome activation in both primary astrocytes and 
microglia. Lastly, we demonstrate that glia-produced ASC specks induce IL-1β in 
microglia and astrocytes and induce ROS in SH-SY5Y neurons, contributing to 
sustained neuroinflammation in AD.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, our results demonstrate that ethanol consumption 
exacerbates features of AD pathology associated with amplified neuroinflammation 
and NLRP3/ASC inflammasome activation, which may play an important role in the 
disease progression and severity.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-025-03501-8
PMCID: PMC12265316
PMID: 40665351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All the mice breeding, experimental protocols, and euthanasia were 
conducted as per the institutional ethics and Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee (IACUC) approved protocols No. 019–2019, 030–2022, and 051–2024. 
Competing interests: G.S. is scientific consultant for Cyta Therapeutics, 
Durect, Evive, Pandion Therapeutics, Pfizer, Surrozen, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Novo Nordisk, Resolution therapeutics and also holds equity in Glympse Bio, 
Zomagen and Satellite Bio. She received royalties from UptoDate and Springer. 
The remaining authors have no competing interests to report.


88. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul 15. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05162-3. Online ahead of 
print.

Multiple Mechanisms and Therapeutic Strategies for the Involvement of AMPK in 
the Development of Alzheimer's Disease.

Yu L(1), Yang X(1), Lei HP(1), Hu YT(1), Wu LN(1), Zhou SY(2), Jin F(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Basic Pharmacology of Ministry of Education and Joint 
International Research Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education, 
Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, Guizhou Province, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Basic Pharmacology of Ministry of Education and Joint 
International Research Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education, 
Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, Guizhou Province, China. szhou@zmu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Basic Pharmacology of Ministry of Education and Joint 
International Research Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education, 
Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, Guizhou Province, China. 
jinfeng1115@zmu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major cause of dementia, a life-threatening 
condition for which there is currently no cure. Currently, the treatment of AD 
focuses on reducing the accumulation of amyloid β-protein (Aβ) and the 
phosphorylation of Tau proteins (Tau). However, simply reducing pathological 
features does not completely improve AD. Therefore, there is an urgent need to 
explore a target that regulates AD-related pathologies and highlights its 
potential as a novel therapeutic target. Recent studies suggest that oxidative 
stress, neuroinflammation, autophagy dysfunction, and energy metabolism 
alterations are associated with the development of AD. Reviewing previous data, 
we found that AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) not only acts as a cellular 
energy sensor to influence the progression of AD, but also activation of AMPK 
affects the pathologic processes above. In this review, we provide an update on 
activating the AMPK pathway with targeting in AD therapy. Finally, research has 
shown that compounds can activate the AMPK pathway to affect a series of 
cellular processes and improve AD. We propose that AMPK activation represents a 
paradigm-shifting strategy for AD therapy by simultaneously targeting multiple 
pathological cascades, although challenges in isoform-specific activation and 
brain delivery warrant further investigation.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05162-3
PMID: 40665063

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


89. Nat Med. 2025 Aug;31(8):2578-2589. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03831-3. Epub 2025
 Jul 15.

Disruption of the cerebrospinal fluid-plasma protein balance in cognitive 
impairment and aging.

Farinas A(1)(2)(3), Rutledge J(2)(3), Bot VA(2)(3)(4), Western D(5)(6)(7), Ying 
K(2)(3)(8)(9), Lawrence KA(10), Oh HS(2)(3)(11)(12)(13)(14), Yoon S(2)(3), Ding 
DY(2)(3), Tsai AP(2)(3), Moran-Losada P(2)(3), Timsina J(5)(6), Le Guen Y(15); 
Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium (GNPC); Montgomery 
SB(10)(16)(17), Baker D(8)(9)(18), Poston KL(2)(3)(19), Wagner AD(3)(20), 
Mormino E(19), Cruchaga C(5)(6)(21)(22)(23)(24), Wyss-Coray T(25)(26)(27).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(2)The Phil and Penny Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(3)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(4)Graduate Program in Biomedical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(6)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(7)Division of Biology and Biomedical Sciences, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(9)Institute for Protein Design, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(10)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(11)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(12)Brain and Body Research Center of the Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School 
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(13)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(14)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(15)Quantitative Services Unit, Department of Medicine, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(16)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(17)Department of Biomedical Data Science, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(18)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(20)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(21)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(22)Department of Genetics, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.
(23)Hope Center for Neurologic Diseases, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, 
USA.
(24)Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(25)The Phil and Penny Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA. twc@stanford.edu.
(26)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA. 
twc@stanford.edu.
(27)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA. twc@stanford.edu.

The brain barrier system, including the choroid plexus, meninges and brain 
vasculature, regulates substrate transport and maintains differential protein 
concentrations between blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Aging and 
neurodegeneration disrupt brain barrier function, but proteomic studies of the 
effects on blood-CSF protein balance are limited. Here we used SomaScan 
proteomics to characterize paired CSF and plasma samples from 2,171 healthy or 
cognitively impaired older individuals from multiple cohorts, including the 
Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium. We identified proteins with 
correlated CSF and plasma levels that are produced primarily outside the brain 
and are enriched for structural domains that may enable their transport across 
brain barriers. CSF to plasma ratios of 848 proteins increased with aging in 
healthy control individuals, including complement and coagulation proteins, 
chemokines and proteins linked to neurodegeneration, whereas 64 protein ratios 
decreased with age, suggesting substrate-specific barrier regulation. Notably, 
elevated CSF to plasma ratios of peripherally derived or vascular-associated 
proteins, including DCUN1D1, MFGE8 and VEGFA, were associated with preserved 
cognitive function. Genome-wide association studies identified genetic loci 
associated with CSF to plasma ratios of 241 proteins, many of which have known 
disease associations, including FCN2, the collagen-like domain of which may 
facilitate blood-CSF transport. Overall, this work provides molecular insight 
into the human brain barrier system and its disruption with age and disease, 
with implications for the development of brain-permeable therapeutics.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03831-3
PMCID: PMC12353824
PMID: 40665050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: T.W.-C., J.R. and H.S.O. 
are co-founders and scientific advisors of Teal Omics Inc. and have received 
equity stakes. T.W.-C. is a co-founder and scientific advisor of Alkahest Inc. 
and Qinotto Inc. and has received equity stakes in these companies. C.C. has 
received research support from GSK and EISAI. C.C. is a member of the scientific 
advisory board of Circular Genomics and owns stock and a member of the 
Scientific Advisory Board of ADmit. K.L.P. is on the Scientific Advisory Board 
for Amprion and is a consultant for Novartis, Biohaven, Curasen and Neuron23, 
where she receives consulting fees. S.B.M. is an advisor to MyOme, PhiTech and 
Valinor Discovery. The remaining authors declare no competing interests.


90. Nat Med. 2025 Aug;31(8):2556-2566. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03834-0. Epub 2025
 Jul 15.

The Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium: biomarker and drug target 
discovery for common neurodegenerative diseases and aging.

Imam F(1), Saloner R(2), Vogel JW(3), Krish V(4), Abdel-Azim G(5), Ali M(6)(7), 
An L(3), Anastasi F(8)(9)(10), Bennett D(11), Pichet Binette A(12)(13)(14), 
Boxer AL(2), Bringmann M(5), Burns JM(15)(16), Cruchaga C(6)(7)(17), Dage 
JL(18)(19), Farinas A(20)(21)(22), Ferrucci L(23), Finney CA(24)(25), Frasier 
M(26), Hansson O(12), Hohman TJ(27)(28), Johnson ECB(29)(30), Kivimaki 
M(31)(32), Korologou-Linden R(33), Ruiz Laza A(34)(35)(36), Levey AI(29)(30), 
Liepelt-Scarfone I(37)(38)(39), Lu L(12), Mattsson-Carlgren N(12)(40), Middleton 
LT(33), Nho K(41), Oh HS(21)(22)(42), Petersen RC(43), Reiman EM(44), Robinson 
O(33)(45), Rothstein JD(46), Saykin AJ(18)(19), Shvetcov A(24)(25), Slawson 
C(15)(47), Smets B(48), Suárez-Calvet M(8)(9)(49), Tijms BM(50)(51), Timmers 
M(48), Vieira F(52), Vilor-Tejedor N(8)(10)(53), Visser PJ(50)(51)(54), Walker 
KA(55), Winchester LM(56), Wyss-Coray T(21)(22)(57), Yang C(6)(7), Bose N(4), 
Lovestone S(58); Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium (GNPC).

Author information:
(1)Gates Ventures, Seattle, WA, USA. farhad.imam@gatesventures.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, SciLifeLab, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.
(4)Gates Ventures, Seattle, WA, USA.
(5)Johnson & Johnson, Spring House, PA, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(7)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(8)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Barcelona Institute of Science and 
Technology (BIST), Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(12)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(13)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Université de Montréal, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.
(14)Montreal Geriatrics Institute Research Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(15)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Kansas City, KS, 
USA.
(16)Department of Neurology, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
KS, USA.
(17)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(18)Indiana Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(20)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(21)The Phil and Penny Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(22)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(23)Translational Gerontology Branch, National Institute on Aging, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.
(24)Neurodegeneration and Precision Medicine Research Group, Westmead Institute 
for Medical Research, Westmead, New South Wales, Australia.
(25)Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney School of Medical 
Sciences, Westmead, New South Wales, Australia.
(26)Michael J. Fox Foundation, New York, NY, USA.
(27)Vanderbilt Memory & Alzheimer's Disease, Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(28)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, TN, 
USA.
(29)Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(30)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(31)UCL Brain Sciences, University College London, London, UK.
(32)University of Helsinki, Clinicum, Helsinki, Finland.
(33)Ageing & Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial 
College London, London, UK.
(34)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(35)Biomedical Research Networking Centre in Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), National Institute of Health Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(36)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases and 
Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Molecular Genetics, Long School of 
Medicine, The University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(37)Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, 
Tübingen, Germany.
(38)Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, German Center of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, Tübingen, Germany.
(39)IB Hochschule für Gesundheit und Soziales, Standort Stuttgart, Germany.
(40)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(41)Department of Radiology & Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(42)Mount Sinai, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(43)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(44)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(45)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, UK.
(46)Robert Packard Center for ALS Research, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
MD, USA.
(47)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(48)Johnson & Johnson, Beerse, Belgium.
(49)Department of Neurology, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(50)Department of Neurology, Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(51)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(52)ALS Therapy Development Institute, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(53)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands.
(54)Alzheimer Center Limburg, School for Mental Health and Neuroscience, 
Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(55)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, MD, USA.
(56)Department of Psychiatry, Oxford University, Oxford, UK.
(57)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Standford, CA, USA.
(58)Johnson & Johnson, London, UK.

More than 57 million people globally suffer from neurodegenerative diseases, a 
figure expected to double every 20 years. Despite this growing burden, there are 
currently no cures, and treatment options remain limited due to disease 
heterogeneity, prolonged preclinical and prodromal phases, poor understanding of 
disease mechanisms, and diagnostic challenges. Identifying novel biomarkers is 
crucial for improving early detection, prognosis, staging and subtyping of these 
conditions. High-dimensional molecular studies in biofluids ('omics') offer 
promise for scalable biomarker discovery, but challenges in assembling large, 
diverse datasets hinder progress. To address this, the Global Neurodegeneration 
Proteomics Consortium (GNPC)-a public-private partnership-established one of the 
world's largest harmonized proteomic datasets. It includes approximately 250 
million unique protein measurements from multiple platforms from more than 
35,000 biofluid samples (plasma, serum and cerebrospinal fluid) contributed by 
23 partners, alongside associated clinical data spanning Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS). This dataset is accessible to GNPC members via the 
Alzheimer's Disease Data Initiative's AD Workbench, a secure cloud-based 
environment, and will be available to the wider research community on 15 July 
2025. Here we present summary analyses of the plasma proteome revealing 
disease-specific differential protein abundance and transdiagnostic proteomic 
signatures of clinical severity. Furthermore, we describe a robust plasma 
proteomic signature of APOE ε4 carriership, reproducible across AD, PD, FTD and 
ALS, as well as distinct patterns of organ aging across these conditions. This 
work demonstrates the power of international collaboration, data sharing and 
open science to accelerate discovery in neurodegeneration research.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03834-0
PMCID: PMC12353841
PMID: 40665048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: A.L.B. receives research 
support from the NIH, the Tau Research Consortium, the Association for 
Frontotemporal Degeneration, Bluefield Project to Cure Frontotemporal Dementia, 
the GHR Foundation and the Alzheimer’s Association. He has been a consultant for 
Alchemab, Alector, Alexion, Amylyx, Arrowhead, Arvinas, Eli Lilly, Muna, 
Neurocrine, Ono, Oscotec, Pfizer, Switch, Transposon and UnlearnAI. C.C. has 
received research support from GSK and Eisai. C.C. is a member of the scientific 
advisory board of Circular Genomics and owns stocks. C.C. is a member of the 
scientific advisory board of ADmit. J.L.D. has a patent pending for compounds 
and methods targeting human tau. L.F. has given unpaid seminars and/or webinars 
sponsored or co-sponsored by SomaLogic. O.H. has received nonfinancial support 
from Roache and Lilly and is currently employed by Lilly. E.M.R. has received 
grants from National Institute on Aging and the state of Arizona; receives 
philanthropic funding from the Banner Alzheimer’s Foundation, Sun Health 
Foundation and Roche/Roche Diagnostics; receives personal fees from Alkahest, 
Alzheon, Aural Analytics, Denali, Green Valley, MagQ, Takeda/Zinfandel and 
United Neuroscience; has since submission of manuscript become a cofounder of 
ALZpath, which aims to further develop P-tau217 and fluid biomarkers and advance 
their use in research, drug development and clinical settings; holds a patent 
owned by Banner Health for a strategy to use biomarkers to accelerate evaluation 
of Alzheimer prevention therapies; and is a principal investigator of prevention 
trials that include research agreements with Genentech/Roche and Novartis/Amgen, 
PET studies that include research agreements with Avid/Lilly and several NIH and 
Foundation-supported research studies. T.W.-C. and H.S.-H.O. are co-founders and 
scientific advisors of Teal Omics Inc. and have received equity stakes. T.W.-C. 
is a co-founder and scientific advisor of Alkahest Inc. and Qinotto Inc. and has 
received equity stakes in these companies. The other authors declare no 
competing interests.


91. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep;12(8):100271. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100271.  Epub 2025 Jul 15.

A multimodal lifestyle intervention complemented with epigallocatechin gallate 
to prevent cognitive decline in APOE- ɛ4 carriers with Subjective Cognitive 
Decline: a randomized, double-blinded clinical trial (PENSA study).

Forcano L(1), Soldevila-Domenech N(2), Boronat A(3), Sánchez-Benavides G(4), 
Puig-Pijoan A(5), Lorenzo T(6), Aldea-Perona A(7), Suárez-Calvet M(8), 
Cuenca-Royo A(1), Gispert JD(9), Gomis-Gonzalez M(10), Minguillón C(4), 
Diaz-Pellicer P(11), Fauria K(12), Piera I(13), Langohr K(14), Dierssen M(15), 
Pizarro N(3), Mur-Gimeno E(16), Grau-Rivera O(8), Molinuevo JL(17), de la Torre 
R(18); PENSA working group.

Author information:
(1)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; CIBER de Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición, Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Clinical and Risk Factors for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
Research Group, Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research 
Institute, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento Saludable 
(CIBER-FES), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Cognition and Behavior Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital Del Mar, 
Barcelona, Spain; Medicine Department, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain; ERA-Net on Cardiovascular Diseases (ERA-CVD) Consortium, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu 
Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; Neuroimaging of neurodegenerative disease and healthy 
aging Research Group, Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research 
Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 
Barcelona, Spain; Clinical Research Unit, Neuroscience Research Program, 
Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Clinical and Risk Factors for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
Research Group, Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research 
Institute, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento Saludable 
(CIBER-FES), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain; Cognition and 
Behavior Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital Del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu 
Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; Neuroimaging of neurodegenerative disease and healthy 
aging Research Group, Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research 
Institute, Barcelona, Spain; Clinical Research Unit, Neuroscience Research 
Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER en 
Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y Nanomedicina, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 
Madrid, Spain.
(10)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares (CNIC), Madrid, 
Spain.
(11)Clinical Research Unit, Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar 
Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; CIBER de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento Saludable (CIBER-FES), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(13)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(14)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Department of Statistics and Operations Research, Universitat Politècnica 
de Catalunya BARCELONATECH, Barcelona, Spain.
(15)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 
Barcelona, Spain; Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), The Barcelona Institute 
of Science and Technology, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER de Enfermedades Raras 
(CIBERER), Madrid, Spain.
(16)Attention to Chronicity and Innovation in Health (GRACIS), Escola Superior 
de Ciències de la Salut Tecnocampus, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Mataró, Spain.
(17)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Experimental Medicine, H. Lundbeck A/S, København, Denmark.
(18)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Barcelona, 
Spain; CIBER de Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición, Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III, Madrid, Spain; Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat 
Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: rtorre2@researchmar.net.

BACKGROUND: The potential of dietary compounds to enhance the effects of 
multimodal lifestyle interventions (MLIs) on cognition in individuals at high 
risk of cognitive impairment remains unclear.
OBJECTIVES: To assess whether the addition of a green tea extract enriched with 
epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) enhances the effects of an MLI.
DESIGN: Double-blind, randomized, two-arm, and placebo-controlled trial. 
Exploratory comparisons were made with a non-randomized group (NRG) receiving 
healthy lifestyle recommendations.
SETTING: Population-based study conducted in Barcelona, Spain PARTICIPANTS: 
APOE-ɛ4 carriers aged 60-80 with subjective cognitive decline INTERVENTION: A 
12-month intensive MLI including dietary counseling, guided physical activity, 
and cognitive stimulation, combined with EGCG (5-6 mg/kg) or placebo, followed 
by a 3-month washout.
MEASUREMENTS: Primary endpoint was change in the modified Preclinical Alzheimer 
Cognitive Composite (PACC-exe) score.
RESULTS: 129 participants (65.1% 84 women, aged 66.7±5.5 years) were enrolled 
(52 MLI+EGCG, 52 MLI+placebo and 25 NRG), with126 (97.7%) included in the 
modified intention-to-treat analysis. After 12 months, no statistically 
significant difference was observed between MLI+EGCG and MLI+placebo in the 
PACC-exe (adjusted mean difference [AMD]: 0.12; 95%CI: -0.01, 0.24; p=0.061). 
However, participants in the MLI+EGCG group were 2.6 times more likely to show a 
reliable cognitive improvement. In exploratory analyses following a 3-month 
washout, the MLI+EGCG group showed significant cognitive benefits compared to 
the MLI+placebo (AMD: 0.19; 95%CI: 0.06, 0.32; p=0.005). Exploratory comparisons 
with the NRG also suggested greater gains in cognition and dementia risk 
reduction in both MLI groups, particularly with EGCG.
CONCLUSIONS: While the primary outcome was not met, this proof-of-concept trial 
suggests that combining MLIs with EGCG warrants further investigation in larger, 
confirmatory studies.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100271
PMCID: PMC12413734
PMID: 40664536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing interests The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Jose Luis Molinuevo reports a 
relationship with H Lundbeck that includes: employment. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


92. Comput Biol Med. 2025 Sep;196(Pt A):110762. doi: 
10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110762. Epub 2025 Jul 14.

ML-based prediction to experimental validation: Development of 
dihydroquinazoline based multi-potent ligands as anti-Alzheimer's agents.

Jangid K(1), Devi B(1), Kumar N(2), Upadhayay S(3), Kumar V(2), Thareja S(4), 
Kumar V(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Organic and Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, 
Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, India; Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences and Natural Products, Central University of Punjab, 
Bathinda, 151401, India.
(2)Laboratory of Organic and Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, 
Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, 
India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Natural Products, Central 
University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, India.
(5)Laboratory of Organic and Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, 
Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 151401, India. Electronic address: 
vpathania18@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurological disorder accounting 
for the cognitive decline in the patients. The disease is linked to numerous 
pathological factors including hyperactivation of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) 
and monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), accumulation of amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and 
neurofibrillary tangles in the brain etc. The single-target medications already 
available in the market are found to be ineffective and the research focus is 
shifting towards the development of multitargeting agents. In order to find a 
multi-potent inhibitor against AChE, MAO-B and Aβ1-42, in the present study we 
employed a machine learning-based tool, PyRMD, to screen an in-house generated 
library of dihydroquinazoline derivatives. This screening process identified six 
promising compounds, KV-271, KV-832, KV-968, KV-1131, KV-1159, KV-1234 with dual 
inhibition potential against AChE and MAO-B enzymes. In the docking studies, 
these compounds showed good interactions at the active cavity of the AChE and 
MAO-B comparable to the standard inhibitors donepezil (AChE) and pargyline 
(MAO-B). To validate these predictions, the six identified compounds were 
synthesized and subjected to in vitro enzymatic assays. All the six compounds 
displayed significant inhibitory activity, with IC50 values below 5 μM for both 
AChE and MAO-B. Amongst these compounds, KV-1131 and KV-1234 were found to be 
the most potent inhibitors with IC50 values of 0.93 μM and 0.85 μM against AChE 
and IC50 values of 1.17 μM and 0.79 μM against MAO-B, respectively. In addition, 
KV-1131 and KV-1234 exhibited inhibitory activity against Aβ1-42 
self-aggregation inhibition of 34.79 % and 45.70 %, respectively, after 48 h of 
incubation. Both KV-1131 and KV-1234 were found to be non-toxic up to 10 μM 
concentration and showed neuroprotective potential against 6-hydroxydopamine 
induced neurotoxicity in the SHSY-5Y cells. Thus, KV-1131 and KV-1234 were 
identified as potent leads that can be developed as drug candidates for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.110762
PMID: 40664126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


93. J Nat Prod. 2025 Jul 25;88(7):1752-1765. doi: 10.1021/acs.jnatprod.5c00486.
Epub  2025 Jul 15.

Bletistrosides M-X, Anti-Alzheimer's Disease Compounds from the Tubers of 
Bletilla striata.

Bian Z(1), Liu X(1), Li J(1), Hu S(1), Choo YM(2), Zhao Z(3), Hu J(3), Ji K(4), 
Hamann MT(5), Wang X(1), Wang X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu 730000, P. R. China.
(2)Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, University of Malaya, 50603 Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Institute of Natural Medicine and Health Products, School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Plant Evolutionary Ecology and 
Conservation, Taizhou University, Taizhou Zhejiang 318000, PR China.
(4)Glasgow International College, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G11 6NU, 
Scotland United Kingdom.
(5)Drug Discovery, Biomedical Sciences and Public Health, Medical University of 
South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina 29425, United States.

Twelve new compounds, bletistrosides M-X (1-12), including five 
glucosyloxybenzyl 2-isobutylmalates (1-5), along with four neolignan glycosides 
(6-9), two phenanthrene derivatives (10-11), and one bibenzyl derivative (12), 
were isolated from the tubers of Bletilla striata (B. striata). The structures 
and absolute configurations of the undescribed compounds were elucidated on the 
basis of spectroscopic data analysis, experimental and calculated electronic 
circular dichroism data, chiroptical analysis, and chemical derivatizations. In 
silico, compounds 2, 3, and 12 bound well to Aβ1-42. Compounds 2, 3, and 12 
significantly delayed the paralysis phenotype in CL4176 worms compared to 
controls. Higher nonparalysis rates were observed in these treatment groups (5 
μM for compound 2; 25, 50 μM for compounds 2, 3 and 12), suggesting their 
potential role in anti-Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jnatprod.5c00486
PMID: 40663501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Am J Chin Med. 2025;53(5):1477-1499. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X25500569. Epub
2025  Jul 15.

Quercetin Ameliorates Learning and Memory in OVX/D-gal-Induced Alzheimer's 
Disease in Rats by Inhibiting Neuroinflammation via cGAS-STING Signal Pathway.

Zhang X(1), Ma MF(1), Zong R(1)(2), Liu HB(1)(2), Wang TX(1), Liu C(1), Cui 
YY(1), Liu LJ(1)(2), Wu MM(1)(2), Shen LX(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Hebei North University, Zhangjiakou, Hebei 075000, 
China.
(2)Hebei Key Laboratory of Neuropharmacology, Zhangjiakou, Hebei 075000, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related degenerative disorder of the central 
nervous system. Neuroinflammation is considered a key factor in its etiology and 
progression. AD is more prevalent in women than men and may be related to 
postmenopausal hormone deficiency. This study constructed an AD rat model by 
bilateral ovariectomy (OVX) and intraperitoneal injection of D-galactose (D-gal) 
and an in vitro AD cell model was induced in PC12 cells using lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS). The Morris water maze test was employed to assess the impact of quercetin 
(Que) on learning and memory in OVX/D-gal rats. Immunohistochemistry was 
utilized to assess the impact of Que on the expression of Aβ protein, p-tau 
protein, GFAP, and Iba1 in the hippocampus of OVX/D-gal rats. Nissl staining was 
performed to examine hippocampal pathological damage. ELISA was conducted to 
measure serum estrogen levels and the release of inflammatory cytokines, 
specifically TNF-α and IL-1β, in the hippocampus of OVX/D-gal rats. HE staining 
was utilized to evaluate uterine pathological alterations in OVX/D-gal rats. 
Cell viability was assessed using the CCK-8 assay to determine the protective 
effect of quercetin on LPS-induced PC12 cells. Western Blot analysis was 
conducted to evaluate the expression levels of estrogen receptors and the 
proteins associated with the cGAS-STING pathway in both in vitro and in vivo 
models. Protein-protein docking studies were performed to investigate the 
binding affinity between the estrogen receptor and proteins involved in the 
cGAS-STING signaling pathway. Results demonstrated that Que enhanced learning 
and memory capabilities in OVX/D-gal rats, alleviated hippocampal pathological 
damage, reduced the expression of Aβ, p-tau, GFAP, and Iba1, and inhibited the 
release of inflammatory factors. Additionally, Que activated estrogen receptor 
expression and increased serum estrogen levels without exacerbating uterine 
lesions. Furthermore, Que activated the estrogen receptor in LPS-induced PC12 
cells, which inhibited the release of IL-6 and exerted neuroprotective effects. 
Que also suppressed the expression of proteins associated with the cGAS-STING 
pathway both in vitro and in vivo. Estrogen receptors exhibited strong binding 
affinity with cGAS-STING pathway proteins. In conclusion, Que can inhibit 
neuroinflammation in vitro and in vivo, enhance learning and memory in OVX/D-gal 
rats, and exert neuroprotective effects. The underlying mechanism may involve 
the inhibition of the cGAS-STING signaling pathway, and the estrogen receptor 
potentially influences this pathway directly or indirectly.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X25500569
PMID: 40663436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. J Clin Invest. 2025 Jul 15;135(17):e182702. doi: 10.1172/JCI182702.
eCollection  2025 Sep 2.

Efficacy and safety of a therapeutic humanized FSH-blocking antibody in obesity 
and Alzheimer's disease models.

Pallapati AR(1)(2), Korkmaz F(1)(2)(3), Rojekar S(1)(2), Sims S(1)(2), Misra 
A(4)(5), Gimenez-Roig J(1)(2), Gangadhar A(1)(2), Laurencin V(1)(2), Gumerova 
A(1)(2), Cheliadinova U(1)(2), Sultana F(1)(2), Vasilyeva D(1)(2), Cullen 
L(1)(2), Schuermann J(6), Munitz J(7), Kannangara H(1)(2), Parte S(1)(2), Pevnev 
G(1)(2), Burganova G(1)(2), Tumoglu Z(1)(2), Witztum R(1)(2), Wizman S(1)(2), 
Kramskiy N(1)(2), Igel L(1)(2), Sen F(1)(2), Ranzenigo A(7), Macdonald A(1)(2), 
Hutchison S(1)(2), Teunissen AJ(7)(8)(9), Burkart H(1)(3), Saxena M(1)(2), 
Ginsburg Y(1)(3), Goosens K(1)(10), Zhou W(1)(2), Ryu V(1)(2), Moldavski 
O(1)(2), Barak O(1)(2), Pazianas M(1)(2), Caminis J(1)(2), Bhasin S(11), 
Fitzgerald R(12), Kim SM(1)(3), Quinn M(13), Haider S(14), Appt S(13), Frolinger 
T(1)(2), Rosen CJ(15), Lizneva D(1)(2), Gupta YK(4)(5), Yuen T(1)(2), Zaidi 
M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai Center for Translational Medicine and Pharmacology.
(2)Department of Pharmacological Sciences, and.
(3)Department of Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(4)Greehey Children's Cancer Research Institute and.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Structural Biology, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, USA.
(6)Northeastern Collaborative Access Team, Department of Chemistry and Chemical 
Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, USA.
(7)BioMedical Engineering and Imaging Institute.
(8)Cardiovascular Research Institute.
(9)Icahn Genomics Institute, and.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(11)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Hypertension, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(12)Institute of Systems, Molecular and Integrative Biology, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(13)Department of Pathology-Comparative Medicine, Wake Forest University School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(14)School of Pharmacy, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(15)MaineHealth Institute for Research, Scarborough, Maine, USA.

There is growing evidence for direct actions of follicle-stimulating hormone 
(FSH) on tissues other than the ovaries and testes. Blocking FSH action, either 
genetically or pharmacologically, protects against bone loss, fat gain, and 
memory loss in mice. We thus developed a humanized FSH-blocking antibody, 
MS-Hu6, as a lead therapeutic for 3 diseases of public health magnitude - 
osteoporosis, obesity, and Alzheimer's disease (AD) - that track together in 
postmenopausal women. Here, we report the crystal structure of MS-Hu6 and its 
interaction with FSH in atomistic detail. Using our Good Laboratory Practice 
platform (21 CFR 58), we formulated MS-Hu6 and the murine equivalent, Hf2, at an 
ultra-high concentration; both formulated antibodies displayed enhanced thermal 
and colloidal stability. A single injection of 89Zr-labeled MS-Hu6 revealed a β 
phase t½ of 79 and 132 hours for female and male mice, respectively, with 
retention in regions of interest. Female mice injected subcutaneously with Hf2 
displayed a dose-dependent reduction in body weight and body fat, in the face of 
reduced free (bioavailable) FSH and unperturbed estrogen levels. Hf2 also 
rescued recognition memory and spatial learning loss in a context- and 
time-dependent manner in AD-prone 3xTg and APP/PS1 mice. MS-Hu6 injected into 
African green monkeys (8 mg/kg) intravenously, and then subcutaneously at 
monthly intervals, was safe, and without effects on vital signs, blood 
chemistries, or blood counts. There was a notable approximately 4% weight loss 
in all 4 monkeys after the first injection, which continued in 2 of the monkeys. 
We thus provide Investigational New Drug-enabling data for a planned 
first-in-human study.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI182702
PMCID: PMC12404759
PMID: 40663423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 2025 Sep;65(9):1235-1244. doi: 
10.23736/S0022-4707.25.16503-1. Epub 2025 Jul 15.

Do exercise interventions improve functional mobility and balance in Alzheimer's 
patients? A systematic review.

Adderley J(1), Ciccarelli S(2), Ferraro FV(3).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Exercise and Rehabilitation Research Center, University of Derby, 
Derby, UK.
(2)University of Naples Parthenope, Naples, Italy.
(3)Clinical Exercise and Rehabilitation Research Center, University of Derby, 
Derby, UK - f.ferraro@derby.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a form of dementia defined as a 
degenerative neurological condition associated with cognitive and functional 
decline above the natural and irreversible structural changes in body tissues 
caused by ageing. AD is the most common form of cognitive impairment in the 
population over 65 years old, also associated with poor functional mobility (FM) 
and balance, which can lead to falls in elderly populations.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: This systematic review, conducted according to the PRISMA 
and PROSPERO guidelines, assesses the effectiveness of various physical exercise 
interventions in improving functional mobility, balance and reducing the risk of 
falls in patients with Alzheimer's older than 65 years. A search has been 
conducted in PubMed, PEDro and Cochrane Library databases to identify relevant 
Randomized Controlled Trial studies. Only studies published in English focusing 
on Exercise, Exercise Intervention, Alzheimer's, Alzheimer's Disease, Functional 
Mobility, Mobility, Risk of Falling, Balance, Over 65, and combinations were 
included. The Cochrane RoB2 tool was used to assess the quality of the 
identified RCTs. Seven out of 5432 studies were included in the analysis.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: A moderate level of evidence suggests that interventions 
involving strength exercises, FM and balance are effective in improving mobility 
and balance in older Alzheimer's patients. Limited evidence indicates that this 
type of activity could also reduce the risk of falls.
CONCLUSIONS: Further recommendations concerning exercises, including walking 
activities, and suggestions for future studies on more comprehensive AD cohorts 
were discussed.

DOI: 10.23736/S0022-4707.25.16503-1
PMID: 40663106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Stat Med. 2025 Jul;44(15-17):e70186. doi: 10.1002/sim.70186.

A Latent-Class Model for Time-To-Event Outcomes and High-Dimensional Imaging 
Data.

Feng J(1), Shi H(1), Da M(2), Beg MF(3), Cao J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, Simon Fraser University, 
Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada.
(2)School of Medicine, Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
USA.
(3)School of Engineering, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British Columbia, 
Canada.

Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is one of the primary predictors of 
Alzheimer's disease risk, enabling the identification of patients with similar 
risk profiles for precision medicine treatment. Motivated by the need for 
flexible modeling in AD research, we propose a latent-class model that addresses 
the heterogeneity within study populations. This model allows for varying 
relationships between covariates and survival outcomes, accommodating the 
dynamics of AD progression. The imaging predictors are characterized by 
bivariate splines over triangulation to accommodate the irregular domain of the 
brain images. We develop a generalized expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm 
that combines the computational methods for logistic regression and penalized 
proportional hazards models to implement the proposed approach. We demonstrate 
the advantages of the proposed method through extensive simulation studies and 
provide an application to the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) 
study, which helps to reveal different subtypes or stages of the disease process 
in Alzheimer's Disease.

© 2025 The Author(s). Statistics in Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.70186
PMCID: PMC12261974
PMID: 40662861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


98. Cent Nerv Syst Agents Med Chem. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 
10.2174/0118715249385792250709073502. Online ahead of print.

Computational Design of Drugs for Epilepsy using a Novel Guided Evolutionary 
Algorithm for Enhanced Blood Brain Barrier Permeability.

Talluri S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, GITAM School of Technology, GITAM, 
Visakhapatnam, India.

INTRODUCTION: Epilepsy is a common disorder of the Central Nervous System (CNS). 
The rational design of small-molecule drugs for disorders of the CNS is a 
difficult process because the majority of small molecules are unable to cross 
the Blood-Brain-Barrier. An efficient method for the design of inhibitors that 
have high permeability through the Blood-Brain-Barrier has the potential for 
application in drug design for CNS disorders such as Addiction, Alzheimer's 
disease, Bipolar disorder, Depression, Epilepsy, Gliomas, and Tuberculous 
meningitis.
METHOD: Supervised learning was used to model the Blood-Brain-Barrier 
permeability of drugs like small organic molecules. This information was 
utilized to guide an evolutionary algorithm for the design of inhibitors with 
increased affinity for the target as well as higher Blood-Brain-Barrier 
permeability.
RESULTS: The ligands designed with guided evolution were predicted to have 
higher binding affinity for the target as well as higher permeability across the 
Blood-Brain-Barrier compared to an evolutionary algorithm without the guidance. 
The guided evolutionary method was applied to design a set of drug-like ligands 
that were predicted to bind to GABA-T with high affinity, to be BBB permeable, 
and to be chemically synthesizable.
DISCUSSION: Despite the availability of several drugs that are approved for the 
treatment of epilepsy, there are many cases that do not respond to available 
drugs or experience adverse effects. The novel ligands designed as part of this 
work have the potential to address the limitations of available drugs.
CONCLUSION: Guided evolution is an efficient computational approach for the 
design of CNS drugs. The de novo design of drugs by application of the guided 
evolution algorithm, developed as part of this work, has resulted in the 
generation of ligands that are potential drugs for the cure of epilepsy. 
However, the effectiveness of these drugs for the cure of epilepsy has to be 
validated experimentally.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715249385792250709073502
PMID: 40662560


99. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 10.2174/0115672050393875250626065205. 
Online ahead of print.

Identification of MicroRNA Drug Targets for Alzheimer's and Diabetes Mellitus 
Using Network Medicine.

Castillo-Velázquez R(1), Castañeda-Delgado JE(2)(3), García-Hernández MH(2), 
Rivas-Santiago B(2), Ruiz-Hernández S(1), Ortiz-Pérez EL(4), López-Alvarenga 
JC(5), Rivera G(4), Lara-Ramírez EE(4).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Ciencias de la Salud y Biomedicina, Universidad 
Autónoma de San Luis Potosí, San Luis Potosí, México.
(2)Unidad de Investigación Biomédica de Zacatecas, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro 
Social, Zacatecas, Zacatecas, México.
(3)Consejo Nacional de humanidades ciencia y tecnología, CONAHCYT. Ciudad de 
México, México.
(4)Laboratorio de Biotecnología Farmacéutica, Centro de Biotecnología Genómica, 
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Reynosa, Tamaulipas, México.
(5)Division of Population Health & Biostatistics, School of Medicine, The 
University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, Texas, Edinburg, United States of 
America.

INTRODUCTION: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) is a known risk factor for 
developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent research shows that both diseases 
share complex and related pathophysiological processes. Network medicine 
approaches can help to elucidate common dysregulated processes among different 
diseases, such as AD and T2D. Thus, the aim of this work was to determine 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in AD and T2D and to apply a network 
medicine approach to identify the microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in the AD-T2D 
association.
METHODS: Gene expression microarray data sets consisting of 384 control samples 
and 399 samples belonging to AD and T2D disease were analyzed to obtain DEGs 
shared by both diseases; the miRNAs associated with these DEGs were predicted 
using a network medicine approach. Finally, potential small molecules targeting 
these potentially deregulated miRNAs were identified.
RESULTS: AD and T2D shared a small subset of 82 downregulated DEGs. These genes 
were significantly associated (p < 0.01) with the ontology terms of chemical 
synaptic deregulation. DEGs were associated with 12 miRNAs expressed in specific 
tissues for AD and T2D. Such miRNAs were also primarily associated with the 
ontology terms related to synaptic deregulation and cancer, and AKT signaling 
pathways. Steroid anti-inflammatory drugs, antineoplastics, and glucose 
metabolites were predicted to be potential regulators of the 12 shared miRNAs.
DISCUSSION: The network medicine approach integrating DEGs and miRNAs enabled 
the identification of shared, potentially deregulated biological processes and 
pathways underlying the pathophysiology of AD and T2D. These common molecular 
mechanisms were also linked to drugs currently used in clinical practice, 
suggesting that this strategy may inform future drug repurposing efforts. 
Nonetheless, further in-depth biological validation is required to confirm these 
findings.
CONCLUSION: Network medicine allowed identifying 12 miRNAs involved in the 
AD-T2D association, and these could be drug targets for the design of new 
treatments; however, the identified miRNAs need further experimental 
confirmation.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050393875250626065205
PMID: 40662549


100. Curr Neuropharmacol. 2025 Jul 14. doi: 10.2174/011570159X353727250314065140.
 Online ahead of print.

Neural Networks of Knowledge: Ontologies Pioneering Precision Medicine In 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Mittal P(1), Gautam RK(2), Sharma H(3), Goyal R(4), Malik G(4), Kapoor R(5), 
Sharma DK(6)(7), Kamal MA(8)(9)(10)(11), Shafiul H(12)(13), Rao SGN(14).

Author information:
(1)GITAM School of Pharmacy, GITAM (Deemed to be) University, Rudraram, 
Patancheru, Sangareddy Distt, Hyderabad, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Indore Institute of Pharmacy, IIST Campus, Rau, 
Indore, India.
(3)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, India.
(4)MM College of Pharmacy, Maharishi Markandeshwar (Deemed to be University), 
Mullana-Ambala, Haryana, 133207, India.
(5)Bristol Myers Squibb, Hyderabad, India.
(6)Department of Pharm Chemistry, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education Manipal, 576104, Karnataka, India.
(7)Department of Entomology and Nematology, UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, University of California Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616, 
USA.
(8)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, Princess Nourah 
bint Abdulrahman University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(9)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, Daffodil 
International University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(10)Centre for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical College and Hospital, 
Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, 
India.
(11)Department of Health Sciences, Faculty of Science, Novel Global Community 
Educational Foundation, Australia.
(12)Department of Nursing, Research and Scientific Studies Unit, College of 
Nursing and Allied Health Sciences, Jazan University, Jazan, 45142, Saudi 
Arabia.
(13)School of Medicine, Universidad Espiritu Santo, Samborondon, 091952, 
Ecuador.
(14)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, GITAM School of Pharmacy, GITAM 
(Deemed to be) University, Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, 53004, Rushikonda, 
India.

The review focuses on the ways that ontologies are revolutionising precision 
medicine in their effort to understand neurodegenerative illnesses. Ontologies, 
which are structured frameworks that outline the relationships between concepts 
in a certain field, offer a crucial foundation for combining different 
biological data. Novel insights into the construction of a precision medicine 
approach to treat neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are given by growing 
advancements in the area of pharmacogenomics. Affected parts of the central 
nervous system may develop neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's, 
Parkinson's, autism spectrum, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. 
These models allow for standard and helpful data marking, which is needed for 
crossdisciplinary study and teamwork. With case studies, you can see how 
ontologies have been used to find biomarkers, understand how sicknesses work, 
and make models for predicting how drugs will work and how the disease will get 
worse. For example, problems with data quality, meaning variety, and the need 
for constant changes to reflect the growing body of scientific knowledge are 
discussed in this review. It also looks at how semantic data can be mixed with 
cutting-edge computer methods such as artificial intelligence and machine 
learning to make brain disease diagnostic and prediction models more exact and 
accurate. These collaborative networks aim to identify patients at risk, 
identify patients in the preclinical or early stages of illness, and develop 
tailored preventative interventions to enhance patient quality of life and 
prognosis. They also seek to identify new, robust, and effective methods for 
these patient identification tasks. To this end, the current study has been 
considered to examine the essential components that may be part of precise and 
tailored therapy plans used for neurodegenerative illnesses.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/011570159X353727250314065140
PMID: 40662545