1. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Jan;182:117744. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2024.117744. 
Epub 2024 Dec 13.

Unlocking the neuroprotective potential of Ziziphora clinopodioides flavonoids 
in combating neurodegenerative diseases and other brain injuries.

Gu L(1), Wang C(1), Liu J(1), Zheng M(1), Tan Y(1), Du Q(1), Li Q(1), Yang W(2), 
Zhang X(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Neuropsychiatric Drug Research of Zhejiang Province, 
Hangzhou medical college, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310013, PR China.
(2)Xinjiang Institute of Materia Medica, Urumqi, Xinjiang 830000, PR China. 
Electronic address: wilfred3106@163.com.
(3)Key Laboratory of Neuropsychiatric Drug Research of Zhejiang Province, 
Hangzhou medical college, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310013, PR China. Electronic 
address: 2020000331@hmc.edu.cn.

Ziziphora clinopodioides Lam. (Z. clinopodioides) is a traditional Chinese and 
ethnic medicine in Xinjiang, China with various therapeutic effects. It is 
primarily used for conditions such as heart disease, fever with chills, 
palpitations, and insomnia. Flavonoids are the main medicinal components of Z. 
clinopodioides, Interestingly, current research has increasingly focused on its 
neuroprotective effects. This study provides a comprehensive overview of the 
potential therapeutic applications of Z. clinopodioides and its constituents in 
central nervous system disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, Huntington's disease, and cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury. At 
present, about 25 flavonoids have been isolated and identified from various 
organs of Z. clinopodioides, including linarin, acacetin, hyperoside, quercetin, 
apigenin, luteolin, chrysin, kaempferol, baicalein, rutin and others. Modern 
pharmacological studies have revealed that Z. clinopodioides and its 
constituents exhibits neuroprotective effects in vitro and in vivo, and the 
mechanism of action is related to anti-apoptosis, anti-inflammatory, 
antioxidant, autophagy, endoplasmic reticulum stress and so on. Currently, there 
is limited research on the extracts of Z. clinopodioides and their potential 
mechanisms of action in these neurological disorders. It is also important to 
prioritize research on biosynthetic pathways and chemical modification 
approaches to fully explore and improve the neuroprotective potential of Z. 
clinopodioides and its flavonoids and establish a strong foundation for its 
clinical applications.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2024.117744
PMID: 39674108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. Comput Biol Med. 2025 Feb;185:109538. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109538. 
Epub 2024 Dec 13.

DCA-Enhanced Alzheimer's detection with shearlet and deep learning integration.

Alinsaif S(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Hafr Al Batin, 
Hafar Al Batin 39524, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: alinsaif@uhb.edu.sa.

Alzheimer's dementia (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects the 
central nervous system, causing the cells to stop working or die. The quality of 
life for individuals with AD steadily declines over time. While current 
treatments can relieve symptoms, a definitive cure remains elusive. However, 
technological advancements in machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) have 
opened up new possibilities for early AD detection. Early diagnosis is crucial, 
as trial drugs show promising results in patients who are diagnosed early. This 
study used a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) dataset from the Alzheimer's 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). The dataset consisted of 200 patients 
who were followed up at different time points and categorized as having AD (50), 
progressive-mild cognitive impairment to AD (50), stable-mild cognitive 
impairment (50), or cognitively normal (50). However, the utilization of MRI 
datasets poses challenges such as high dimensionality, limited training samples, 
and variability within and between subjects. To overcome these challenges, I 
propose using convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to extract informative 
features from an MRI sample. I fine-tune four pretrained models (i.e., 
SqueezeNet-v1.1, MobileNet-v2, Xception, and Inception-v3) to generate 
discriminative descriptors of MRI sample characteristics. Additionally, I 
suggest using the 3D shearlet transform, considering the volumetric properties 
of MRI data. Before the transformation, I implemented preprocessing protocols 
such as skull stripping, normalization of image intensity, and spatial cropping. 
I then summarize the shearlet coefficients using texture-based techniques. 
Finally, I integrate both deep and shearlet-based features using discriminant 
correlation analysis (DCA) to yield a robust and computationally efficient 
classification model. I employ two classifiers, support vector machines (SVMs) 
and decision tree baggers (DTBs). My objective was to develop a model capable of 
accurately diagnosing early-stage AD that can facilitate effective intervention 
and management of the condition. Our feature representation demonstrated high 
accuracy when applied to AD datasets at three time points. Specifically, 
accuracies of 94.46%, 92.97%, and 95.44% were achieved 18 months, 12 months, and 
at the time of stable diagnosis, respectively.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109538
PMID: 39674071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None Declared


3. Geriatr Nurs. 2025 Jan-Feb;61:400-407. doi: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2024.11.020. 
Epub 2024 Dec 13.

Role of nurse practitioners in comprehensive Alzheimer's disease care: Barriers 
and opportunities for timely diagnosis.

Clevenger CK(1), Lingler JH(2), Zhang Y(2), Seleri S(3), Parnas ML(4), 
Youmans-Kidder K(3).

Author information:
(1)Emory University Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, 1520 Clifton Rd, 
Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. Electronic address: Carolyn.clevenger@emory.edu.
(2)University of Pittsburgh School of Nursing, 3500 Victoria St, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213, USA.
(3)Genentech, a member of the Roche Group, 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, CA 
94080, USA.
(4)Roche Diagnostics Corporation, 9115 Hague Rd, Indianapolis, IN 46256, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease. Treatments 
include disease-modifying therapies (DMTs), which studies showed are most 
effective when initiated during the early disease stages. Timely AD diagnosis is 
therefore important, as DMTs can potentially extend an acceptable quality of 
life for people with this condition. This scoping review presents the current 
role of nurse practitioners (NPs) in AD care and describe the current and 
potential future role NPs can play in timely AD diagnosis and management. A 
systematic search of the PubMed and CINAHL databases identified 15 relevant 
articles. The literature review revealed that NPs play an active role in the 
initial assessment of cognitive disorders; however, there is a lack of evidence 
for NPs acting autonomously to diagnose and treat AD. Several opportunities to 
increase the autonomous role of NPs are described, which could reduce barriers 
to timely AD diagnosis and management.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2024.11.020
PMID: 39673910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Carolyn K Clevenger reports writing 
assistance was provided by Genentech Inc. Carolyn K Clevenger reports a 
relationship with Genentech Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Carolyn K 
Clevenger reports a relationship with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co Ltd that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Carolyn K Clevenger reports a relationship 
with Eli Lilly and Company that includes: consulting or advisory. Jennifer H 
Lingler reports writing assistance was provided by Genentech Inc. Jennifer H 
Lingler reports a relationship with Genentech Inc that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Jennifer H Lingler reports a relationship with Biogen Inc that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Jennifer H Lingler reports a relationship with 
National Institutes of Health that includes: funding grants. Jennifer H Lingler 
reports a relationship with Avid Radiopharmaceuticals Inc that includes: funding 
grants. Yuchen Zhang declares that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper. Sheila Seleri reports writing assistance was 
provided by Genentech Inc. Sheila Seleri reports financial support was provided 
by Genentech Inc. Laura Parnas reports writing assistance was provided by 
Genentech Inc. Laura Parnas reports financial support was provided by Genentech 
Inc. Katherine Youmans-Kidder reports writing assistance was provided by 
Genentech Inc. Katherine Youmans-Kidder reports financial support was provided 
by Genentech Inc. Katherine Youmans-Kidder reports a relationship with Eisai Inc 
that includes: employment.


4. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Feb 5;283:117158. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.117158. Epub
 2024 Dec 10.

Design, synthesis, and evaluation of novel benzofuran and pyrazole-based 
derivatives as dual AChE/BuChE inhibitors with antioxidant properties for 
Alzheimer's disease management.

Elkotamy MS(1), Elgohary MK(2), Alkabbani MA(3), Hefina MM(4), Tawfik HO(5), 
Fares M(6), Eldehna WM(7), Abdel-Aziz HA(8).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Egyptian-Russian 
University, Badr City, Cairo, 11829, Egypt. Electronic address: 
mahmoudelkotami@gmail.com.
(2)Pharmaceutical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Egyptian-Russian 
University, Badr City, Cairo, 11829, Egypt.
(3)Pharmacology and Toxicology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Egyptian-Russian 
University, Badr City, Cairo, 11829, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kafrelsheikh 
University, Kafrelsheikh, P.O. Box 33516, Egypt.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tanta 
University, Tanta, 31527, Egypt.
(6)Pharmaceutical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Egyptian-Russian 
University, Badr City, Cairo, 11829, Egypt; School of Pharmacy, The University 
of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2006, Australia.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kafrelsheikh 
University, Kafrelsheikh, P.O. Box 33516, Egypt. Electronic address: 
wagdy2000@gmail.com.
(8)Applied Organic Chemistry Department, National Research Center, Dokki, Cairo, 
12622, Egypt; Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Pharos University in Alexandria, Canal El Mahmoudia St., Alexandria, 21648, 
Egypt. Electronic address: hatem_741@yahoo.com.

As a complicated neurodegenerative disorder with several clinical hallmarks, 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) requires multi-target treatment medicines to address 
multiple elements of disease progression. In this study, we reported two novel 
series of compounds: benzofuran-based donepezil analogs (9a-i) and their 
pyrazole-based counterparts (11a-i) as potential dual inhibitors of AChE and 
BuChE with additional antioxidant properties, aiming to address multiple 
pathological aspects of AD simultaneously. The design strategy employed 
bioisosteric replacement, substituting donepezil's indanone motif with a 
benzofuran ring in series (9a-i) to maintain crucial hydrogen bonding 
interactions with the Phe295 residue in the enzyme's active site. Subsequently, 
the benzofuran ring underwent cleavage, yielding pyrazole-tethered hydroxyphenyl 
derivatives (11a-i). The biological evaluation revealed that benzofuran-based 
derivative 9g exhibited exceptional efficacy against both AChE and BuChE, with 
IC50 values of 0.39 and 0.51 μg/ml, respectively, although it lacked antioxidant 
activity. Compound 11f demonstrated dual inhibition of AChE (IC50 = 1.24 μg/ml) 
and BuChE (IC50 = 1.85 μg/ml) while also displaying strong DPPH free radical 
scavenging activity (IC50 = 3.15 μg/ml). In vivo toxicity studies on compound 
11f revealed a favorable safety profile, with no signs of toxicity or adverse 
events in acute oral toxicity tests in male Wistar rats. Chronic administration 
of 11f resulted in negligible differences in blood profiles, hepatic enzymes, 
urea, creatinine, and albumin levels compared to the control group. 
Histopathological examination of hepatic and kidney tissues from treated rats 
showed normal histology without damage. In silico molecular docking analysis was 
performed to rationalize the design approaches and support the experimental 
findings. This study provides valuable insights into the development of 
multi-target compounds for potential Alzheimer's disease treatment.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.117158
PMID: 39673864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


5. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2025 Feb;131:107228. doi: 
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107228. Epub 2024 Dec 9.

Evaluation of mild cognitive impairment in older patients with essential tremor.

Hashida M(1), Maesawa S(2), Mizuno S(3), Kato S(4), Ito Y(1), Mutoh M(1), Suzuki 
T(1), Ishizaki T(5), Tanei T(1), Tsuboi T(6), Suzuki M(7), Nakatsubo D(4), 
Tsugawa T(4), Bagarinao E(8), Wakabayashi T(9), Katsuno M(10), Saito R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 65 
Tsurumai, Showa, Nagoya, Aichi, 466-8550, Japan.
(2)Brain and Mind Research Center, Nagoya University, 65 Tsurumai, Showa, 
Nagoya, Aichi, 4668550, Japan; Department of Neurosurgery, National Hospital 
Organization, Nagoya Medical Center, 41-1, Sannnomaru, Naka, Nagoya, Aichi, 
4600001, Japan. Electronic address: maesawa.satoshi.n0@a.mail.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation, National Hospital Organization, Nagoya Medical 
Center, 41-1, Sannnomaru, Naka, Nagoya, Aichi, 4600001, Japan.
(4)Focused Ultrasound Therapy Center, Nagoya Kyoritsu Hospital, 1-172, Hokke, 
Nakagawa, Nagoya, Aichi, 4540933, Japan.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 65 
Tsurumai, Showa, Nagoya, Aichi, 466-8550, Japan; Brain and Mind Research Center, 
Nagoya University, 65 Tsurumai, Showa, Nagoya, Aichi, 4668550, Japan.
(6)Department of Neurology, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 65 
Tsurumai, Showa, Nagoya, Aichi, 4668550, Japan.
(7)Department of Neurology, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 65 
Tsurumai, Showa, Nagoya, Aichi, 4668550, Japan; Department of Clinical 
Laboratory, Nagoya University Hospital, 65 Tsurumai, Showa, Nagoya, Aichi, 
4668550, Japan.
(8)Brain and Mind Research Center, Nagoya University, 65 Tsurumai, Showa, 
Nagoya, Aichi, 4668550, Japan; Department of Integrated Health Sciences, Nagoya 
University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-1-20 Daiko-Minami, Higashi, Nagoya, 
Aichi, 4618673, Japan.
(9)Focused Ultrasound Therapy Center, Nagoya Kyoritsu Hospital, 1-172, Hokke, 
Nakagawa, Nagoya, Aichi, 4540933, Japan; Nagoya Garden Clinic, 3-1-17, 
Noritake-Shinmachi, Nishi, Nagoya, Aichi, 4510051, Japan.
(10)Focused Ultrasound Therapy Center, Nagoya Kyoritsu Hospital, 1-172, Hokke, 
Nakagawa, Nagoya, Aichi, 4540933, Japan; Department of Clinical Research 
Education, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai, Showa, 
Nagoya, Aichi, 4668550, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Recent studies have reported that essential tremor (ET) presents 
with not only motor symptoms but also cognitive dysfunction. However, detailed 
pathological mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we evaluate the characteristics of 
cognitive changes in older patients.
METHODS: Eighty-five patients aged 65 years or older with ET but without 
dementia were evaluated for cognitive function using the Addenbrooke Cognitive 
Examination Revised (ACE-R). The patients were compared with healthy controls 
(HCs), and the characteristics of cognitive dysfunction were examined. Age at 
onset and correlations with tremor severity were also investigated. Moreover, we 
performed resting-state network (RSNs) analysis in a subset of these patients, 
and the functional connectivity (FC) within the networks was compared with 
age-matched controls.
RESULTS: Compared to HCs, older patients with ET showed a clear reduction in the 
total (p = 0.001), attention (p = 0.005), verbal fluency (p = 0.001), and memory 
(p = 0.001) ACE-R scores. Older-onset patients showed significant cognitive 
dysfunction compared with younger-onset patients. Verbal fluency correlated with 
tremor severity in the multiple regression analysis (p < 0.001). RSNs showed an 
increase in FC in the frontal lobes within the language network in patients with 
ET compared to HCs (p < 0.05, FWE-corrected).
CONCLUSION: Older patients with ET showed obvious cognitive dysfunction compared 
to HCs, indicating that cognitive dysfunction varies by age of onset and 
correlates with tremor severity. The results of the RSNs analysis suggest that 
the pathological mechanism of cognitive dysfunction in ET patients involves 
network changes similar to those in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2024.107228
PMID: 39673860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


6. Bioinformatics. 2024 Dec 26;41(1):btae728. doi:
10.1093/bioinformatics/btae728.

Modeling multi-stage disease progression and identifying genetic risk factors 
via a novel collaborative learning method.

Xi D(1), Zhang M(1), Shang M(1), Du L(1), Han J(1); Alzheimer’s Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)School of Automation, Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an 710072, 
China.

MOTIVATION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) typically progresses gradually for ages 
rather than suddenly. Thus, staging AD progression in different phases could aid 
in accurate diagnosis and treatment. In addition, identifying genetic variations 
that influence AD is critical to understanding the pathogenesis. However, 
staging the disease progression and identifying genetic variations is usually 
handled separately.
RESULTS: To address this limitation, we propose a novel sparse multi-stage 
multi-task mixed-effects collaborative longitudinal regression method (MSColoR). 
Our method jointly models long disease progression as a multi-stage procedure 
and identifies genetic risk factors underpinning this complex trajectory. 
Specifically, MSColoR models multi-stage disease progression using longitudinal 
neuroimaging-derived phenotypes and associates the fitted disease trajectories 
with genetic variations at each stage. Furthermore, we collaboratively leverage 
summary statistics from large genome-wide association studies to improve the 
powers. Finally, an efficient optimization algorithm is introduced to solve 
MSColoR. We evaluate our method using both synthetic and real longitudinal 
neuroimaging and genetic data. Both results demonstrate that MSColoR can reduce 
modeling errors while identifying more accurate and significant genetic 
variations compared to other longitudinal methods. Consequently, MSColoR holds 
great potential as a computational technique for longitudinal brain imaging 
genetics and AD studies.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The code is publicly available at 
https://github.com/dulei323/MSColoR.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btae728
PMCID: PMC11784593
PMID: 39657256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Adv Sci (Weinh). 2025 Feb;12(5):e2411768. doi: 10.1002/advs.202411768. Epub
2024  Dec 10.

Intermittent Vibration Induces Sleep via an Allatostatin A-GABA Signaling 
Pathway and Provides Broad Benefits in Alzheimer's Disease Models.

Mou Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Zheng Y(1), He G(1), Xu ZX(2), Xiao X(3), Ping Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Bio-X Institutes, Key Laboratory for the Genetics of Developmental and 
Neuropsychiatric Disorders (Ministry of Education), Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, Shanghai, 200240, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, MOE Frontiers Center for Brain 
Science, and Institutes of Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, 
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Computational Neuroscience and Brain-Inspired Intelligence, 
Ministry of Education, Behavioural and Cognitive Neuroscience Center, Institute 
of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired Intelligence, MOE Frontiers Center 
for Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200433, China.

While animals across species typically experience suppressed consciousness and 
an increased arousal threshold during sleep, the responsiveness to specific 
sensory inputs persists. Previous studies have demonstrated that rhythmic and 
continuous vibration can enhance sleep in both animals and humans. However, the 
neural circuits underlying vibration-induced sleep (VIS) and its potential 
therapeutic benefits on neuropathological processes in disease models remain 
unclear. Here, it is shown that intermittent vibration, such as cycles of 30 s 
on followed by 30 s off, is more effective in inducing sleep compared to 
continuous vibration. A clear evidence is further provided that allatostatin A 
(AstA)-GABA signaling mediates short-term intermittent vibration-induced sleep 
(iVIS) by inhibiting octopaminergic arousal neurons through activating GABAA 
receptors. The existence of iVIS in mice is corroborated, implicating the 
GABAergic system in this process. Finally, intermittent vibration not only 
enhances sleep but also reduces amyloid-β (Aβ) deposition and reverses memory 
defects in Alzheimer's disease models. In conclusion, the study defines a 
central neural circuit involved in mediating short-term iVIS and the potential 
implications of vibration in treating sleep-related brain disorders.

© 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/advs.202411768
PMCID: PMC11791986
PMID: 39656885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


8. Sci Signal. 2024 Dec 10;17(866):eado1035. doi: 10.1126/scisignal.ado1035. Epub
 2024 Dec 10.

The deacetylase SIRT6 reduces amyloid pathology and supports cognition in mice 
by reducing the stability of APP in neurons.

Cheng R(1)(2), Bai N(1)(2), Liu S(1)(2), Zhao X(1)(2), Jiang B(1)(2), Guo 
W(1)(2), Cao S(1)(2), Liu J(1)(2), Li N(3), Li X(1)(2), Wu X(1)(2), Yi F(1)(2), 
Wang Z(1)(2), Guo Q(1)(2), Wei J(4), Bai M(1)(2), Jiang X(1)(2), Song X(1)(2), 
Wang Z(1)(2), Miao Q(5), Wang D(3), Di Y(6), Liu H(5), Cao L(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Basic Medical Science, Health Sciences Institute, China Medical 
University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110122, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Cell Biology of Ministry of Public Health, Key Laboratory 
of Medical Cell Biology of Ministry of Education, Liaoning Province 
Collaborative Innovation Center of Aging Related Disease Diagnosis and Treatment 
and Prevention, China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110122, China.
(3)Department of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Shengjing Hospital, China Medical 
University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110004, China.
(4)Department of Developmental Cell Biology, School of Life Sciences; Key 
Laboratory of Cell Biology, Ministry of Public Health; Key Laboratory of Medical 
Cell Biology, Ministry of Education, China Medical University, Shenyang, 
Liaoning 110122, China.
(5)Innovation Center of Aging-Related Disease Diagnosis and Treatment and 
Prevention, Jinzhou Medical University, Jinzhou, Liaoning 121001, China.
(6)Department of Ophthalmology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning 110004, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an aging-related neurodegenerative disorder that 
results in progressively impaired memory and is often associated with amyloid 
plaques. Previous studies implicate the deacetylases SIRT1 and SIRT2 in 
regulating the processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP). Here, we 
investigated whether APP is regulated by the related deacetylase SIRT6, which 
shows aging-associated decreases in activity. We found that the abundance of 
SIRT6 was reduced in the cortex and hippocampus of aged and AD model mice and 
negatively correlated with that of APP. In mouse hippocampal neurons and 
transfected human cells, SIRT6 interacted with and deacetylated APP at three 
consecutive Lys residues (Lys649, Lys650, and Lys651). This deacetylation, in 
turn, increased the ubiquitylation of APP, leading to its proteasomal 
degradation. SIRT6 abundance in neurons was reduced by oxidative stress and DNA 
damage, both of which are implicated in neurodegenerative pathology. Systemic 
pharmacological activation of SIRT6 ameliorated both amyloid pathology and 
cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 mice, a mouse model of AD. The findings 
demonstrate that the activity of SIRT6 destabilizes APP and suggest that 
activating SIRT6 has therapeutic potential to reduce amyloid-associated 
pathology in patients with AD.

DOI: 10.1126/scisignal.ado1035
PMID: 39656860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2025 Jan 17;80(2):gbae198. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbae198.

Beyond Caregiving: Daily Pleasant Activities Among Caregivers to Older Adults 
With and Without Dementia.

Ng YT(1)(2), Freedman V(1), Kratz A(2), Birditt K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Research, Survey Research Center, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Limited research has explored caregivers' activities beyond 
caregiving duties, which may offer positive experiences and counterbalance 
caregiving stress. This study aimed to (a) identify the most pleasant 
non-caregiving activities, (b) assess time allocation based on activity 
categories and pleasantness, and (c) investigate the association between 
activity pleasantness and duration, considering differences between caregivers 
to older adults with Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD) and those 
without.
METHODS: This study included 2,136 caregivers (33% ADRD) from the 2017 National 
Study of Caregiving who participated in a time diary interview. Participants 
reported all activities from the previous day, including their pleasantness 
appraisal and duration.
RESULTS: Weighted descriptives showed organizational activities (e.g., religious 
practices) were rated as the most pleasant, followed by active leisure (e.g., 
sports), for both ADRD and non-ADRD caregivers. Caregivers spent most time on 
non-active leisure (e.g., TV viewing), with about 10.6 hr daily on pleasant 
non-caregiving activities and 35 min on unpleasant ones. Weighted linear 
regression models indicated that both groups reported comparable pleasantness 
ratings for various activities and allocated similar amounts of time to 
activities based on categories and pleasantness. For non-ADRD caregivers, 
greater activity pleasantness was temporarily linked to longer durations.
DISCUSSION: This study enhances understanding of caregivers' appraisals and time 
spent on non-caregiving activities. Although ADRD caregiving is more stressful 
than non-ADRD caregiving, no spillover effect was observed on the pleasantness 
ratings or time spent on non-caregiving activities. However, ADRD caregivers may 
encounter challenges in sustaining pleasant activities over time.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbae198
PMID: 39673747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Neurochem Res. 2024 Dec 14;50(1):57. doi: 10.1007/s11064-024-04308-4.

Targeting Neuroinflammation and Apoptosis: Cardamonin's Cognitive Benefits in 
Alzheimer's 5XFAD Mice.

Smail SW(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, College of Science, Salahaddin University-Erbil, 
Erbil, Kurdistan Region, Iraq. shukur.smail@su.edu.krd.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Cihan University-Erbil, Erbil, Kurdistan Region, Iraq. 
shukur.smail@su.edu.krd.

This study aimed to evaluate the cognitive-enhancing and neuroprotective effects 
of cardamonin in the 5XFAD transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
We treated six-month-old female 5XFAD mice with cardamonin at 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 
and 20 mg/kg. Cognitive function was assessed using the Morris Water Maze (MWM) 
and Novel Object Recognition (NOR) tests. ELISA, western blot, and PCR analyses 
evaluated amyloid-beta (Aβ) levels, neuroinflammation markers, and 
apoptosis-related factor expression. All animals survived without toxicity. 
Cardamonin treatment significantly improved spatial learning and memory 
retention in MWM and NOR tests, with the 20 mg/kg dose showing the most 
pronounced effects. Additionally, cardamonin reduced soluble and insoluble Aβ 
levels in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. The treatment also significantly 
decreased neuroinflammatory markers, with IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α levels dropping 
substantially at higher doses. Cardamom treatment also normalizes cleaved 
caspase 3, GFAP, Iba-1, PSD-95, and synaptophysin, which aids in restoring 
synaptic integrity. Furthermore, cardamonin led to a marked reduction in 
apoptosis-related gene expression, indicating its potential to mitigate 
neurodegeneration. Cardamonin demonstrates significant cognitive-enhancing and 
neuroprotective properties in the 5XFAD mouse model, suggesting its potential as 
a therapeutic agent for AD. These findings support further investigation into 
cardamonin's mechanisms and applicability in treating neurodegenerative 
disorders.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-024-04308-4
PMID: 39673650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


11. J AOAC Int. 2025 Mar 1;108(2):189-198. doi: 10.1093/jaoacint/qsae095.

Identification of Anticholinesterase Active Compounds from the Ethylacetate 
Fraction of Hydroalcoholic Extract of Itrifal Sana Using TLC-bioautography-MS 
and Its Validation Using an In Silico Molecular Approach.

Samal M(1)(2), Siddiqui A(3), Dar MI(4), Srivastava V(1)(2), Khan M(1), Parveen 
R(1)(5), Ansari SH(2), Ahmad S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Jamia Hamdard, Centre of Excellence in Unani Medicine, Bioactive Natural 
Product Laboratory, Department of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry, School of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research, New Delhi 110062, India.
(2)Jamia Hamdard, Department of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry, School of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research, New Delhi 110062, India.
(3)National Research Institute of Unani Medicine for Skin Disorders (NRIUMSD), 
Hyderabad, Telangana 500038, India.
(4)Jamia Millia Islamia, Department of Biotechnology, New Delhi 110025, India.
(5)Jamia Hamdard, Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research, New Delhi 110062, India.

BACKGROUND: Traditional formulations are used extensively throughout the world 
due to their holistic approach to health and wellness with the fewest possible 
adverse effects. Itrifal Sana is a traditional Unani polyherbal formulation: a 
unique combination that makes it synergistically potent, capable of providing 
dual benefits for health and well-being. Even though the formulation is 
frequently utilized, there is no scientific evidence to support its therapeutic 
efficiency.
OBJECTIVE: The present study was designed to detect and identify bioactives, 
responsible for acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity, by 
TLC-bioautography-MS and its validation using an in silico molecular approach.
METHODS: Authentication of the formulation was performed using macroscopy and 
powder microscopy. Quality control was performed using ultra-performance liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS) fingerprint analysis. 
TLC-bioautography-MS was performed to detect the bioactives responsible for 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity and the findings were validated using 
an in silico approach.
RESULTS: The TLC-bioautography-MS revealed the presence of rosmarinic acid, 
kaempferol, and apigenin as potential bioactive anticholinesterase metabolites. 
UPLC-MS analysis demonstrated the separation of 48 phytocompounds in the most 
active fraction of the formulation. In silico analysis of identified metabolites 
showed acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity in ten identified metabolites, 
and, moreover, rosmarinic acid and lobeline showed the highest potential 
activity.
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that Itrifal Sana, which was investigated for 
the first time, has enormous potential for managing alzheimer's disease (AD) 
caused by acetylcholinesterase enzyme inhibition. The findings were derived 
through a successful TLC-bioautography-MS and in silico approach; however, 
further research on the full efficacy using in vitro cell line studies, in vivo 
studies, pharmacokinetics studies, and toxicity studies is still needed.
HIGHLIGHTS: TLC-bioautography-MS and an in silico molecular approach offer much 
more effective, accurate, and reliable results than conventional methods in the 
identification and validation of bioactive components from Itrifal Sana, a 
polyherbal formulation that helps to advance the development of natural 
product-based therapeutics for cholinesterase dysfunctional diseases.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of AOAC 
INTERNATIONAL. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact 
reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other 
permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions 
link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jaoacint/qsae095
PMID: 39673506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Neuroinflammation. 2024 Dec 13;21(1):320. doi: 10.1186/s12974-024-03315-0.

Tyro3 and Gas6 are associated with white matter and myelin integrity in multiple 
sclerosis.

Rosenstein I(#)(1)(2), Novakova L(#)(3)(4), Kvartsberg H(5)(6), Nordin A(3), 
Rasch S(5), Rembeza E(5), Sandgren S(3)(4), Malmeström C(3)(4), Fruhwürth S(6), 
Axelsson M(3)(4), Blennow K(5)(6)(7), Zetterberg H(5)(6)(8)(9)(10)(11), Lycke 
J(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology 
at Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Blå Stråket 7, 413 45, 
Gothenburg, Sweden. igal.rosenstein@vgregion.se.
(2)Region Västra Götaland, Department of Neurology, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden. igal.rosenstein@vgregion.se.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology 
at Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Blå Stråket 7, 413 45, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)Region Västra Götaland, Department of Neurology, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(7)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(8)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(9)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, London, UK.
(10)Hong Kong Centre for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(11)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The Gas6/TAM (Tyro3, Axl, and Mer) receptor system has been 
implicated in demyelination and delayed remyelination in experimental animal 
models, but data in humans are scarce. We aimed to investigate the role of 
Gas6/TAM in neurodegenerative processes in multiple sclerosis (MS).
METHODS: From a prospective 5-year follow-up study, soluble Gas6/TAM biomarkers 
were analyzed in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA) at baseline in patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) (n = 40), 
progressive MS (PMS) (n = 20), and healthy controls (HC) (n = 25). Brain 
volumes, including myelin content (MyC) and white matter (WM) were measured by 
synthetic magnetic resonance imaging at baseline, 12 months, and 60-month 
follow-up. Associations with brain volume changes were investigated in 
multivariable linear regression models. Gas6/TAM concentrations were also 
determined at 12 months follow-up in RRMS to assess treatment response.
RESULTS: Baseline concentrations of Tyro3, Axl, and Gas6 were significantly 
higher in PMS vs. RRMS and HC. Mer was higher in PMS vs. HC. Tyro3 and Gas6 were 
associated with reduced WM (β = 25.5, 95% confidence interval [CI] [6.11-44.96, 
p = 0.012; β = 11.4, 95% CI [0.42-22.4], p = 0.042, respectively) and MyC 
(β = 7.95, 95%CI [1.84-14.07], p = 0.012; β = 4.4, 95%CI [1.04-7.75], p = 0.012 
respectively) at 60 months. Patients with evidence of remyelination at last 
follow-up had lower baseline soluble Tyro3 (p = 0.033) and Gas6 (p = 0.014). 
Except Mer, Gas6/TAM concentrations did not change with treatment in RRMS.
DISCUSSION: Our data indicate a potential role for the Gas6/TAM receptor system 
in neurodegenerative processes influencing demyelination and ineffective 
remyelination.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-024-03315-0
PMCID: PMC11645787
PMID: 39673059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: IR has 
received compensation for lectures from Biogen, Novartis, Merck, and Sanofi, and 
has served on advisory boards for Sanofi; LN has received lecture honoraria from 
Biogen, Novartis, Teva, Sanofi and has served on advisory boards for Merck, 
Janssen and Sanofi; HKhas nothing to declare; AN has nothing to declare; SR has 
nothing to declare; ERhas nothing to declare; SShas received compensation for 
lectures and/or advisory board membership from Merck and Novartis;CM has served 
at scientific advisory boards and/or held lectures for Biogen, Merck, Novartis, 
Roche, Sanofi. Serves as board member for Alzinova AB, Sweden; MA has received 
compensation for lectures and/or advisory boards from Biogen, Genzyme, and 
Novartis; SFhas nothing to declare;  KB served as a consultant and at advisory 
boards for AC Immune, Acumen, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, 
Moleac Pte. Ltd, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens 
Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and 
Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials and participated in 
educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche 
Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB 
(BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work 
presented in this paper; HZ has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a 
consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work); 
JLhas received travel support and/or lecture honoraria and has served on 
scientific advisory boards for Alexion, Almirall, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Celgene, Janssen, Merck, Novartis, Roche and Sanofi; and has received 
unconditional research grants from Biogen and Novartis, and financial support 
from Sanofi for an investigator initiated study.


13. Brain Res. 2025 Mar 1;1850:149393. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149393. Epub 
2024 Dec 11.

T-regulatory cells and extracellular vesicles in Alzheimer's disease: New 
therapeutic concepts and hypotheses.

De Sousa RAL(1), Mendes BF(2).

Author information:
(1)Physical Education Department, Federal University of the Valleys of 
Jequitinhonha and Mucuri (UFVJM), Diamantina, MG, Brazil. Electronic address: 
ricardoaugustoleonidesousa@gmail.com.
(2)Physical Education Department, Federal University of the Valleys of 
Jequitinhonha and Mucuri (UFVJM), Diamantina, MG, Brazil; Physical Education 
Department, UNIPTAN, São João Del Rey, MG, Brazil.

Cell-based treatment has experienced exponential expansion in recent years in 
terms of clinical application and market share among pharmaceutical companies. 
When malignant cells in a healthy individual produce antigenic peptides derived 
from mutant or improperly synthesized proteins, the immune system attacks and 
kills the transforming cells. This process is carried out continuously by immune 
cells scanning the body for altered cells that could cause some harm. 
T-regulatory cells (Tregs), which preserve immunological tolerance and can exert 
neuroprotective benefits in numerous disorders, including animal models of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), have demonstrated considerable therapeutic potential. 
Evidence also suggests that not only Tregs, but extracellular vesicles (EVs) are 
involved in a wide range of diseases, such as cellular homoeostasis, infection 
propagation, cancer development and heart disease, and have become a promisor 
cell-based therapeutic field too. Nevertheless, despite significant recent 
clinical and commercial breakthroughs, cell-based medicines still confront 
numerous challenges that hinder their general translation and commercialization. 
These challenges include, but are not limited to, choosing the best cell source, 
and creating a product that is safe, adequately viable, and fits the needs of 
individual patients and diseases. Here, we summarize what we know about Tregs 
and EVs and their potential therapeutic usage in AD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149393
PMID: 39672489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


14. Physiol Behav. 2025 Mar 1;290:114778. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2024.114778.
Epub  2024 Dec 11.

Gut microbiota dysbiosis in Alzheimer's disease (AD): Insights from human 
clinical studies and the mouse AD models.

Manfredi JN(1), Gupta SK(1), Vyavahare S(1), Deak F(2), Lu X(2), Buddha L(3), 
Wankhade U(3), Lohakare J(4), Isales C(5), Fulzele S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, 
Augusta, GA, USA.
(2)Deptment of Neuroscience & Regenerative Medicine, Augusta, GA 30912, USA.
(3)Arkansas Children's Nutrition Center, Department of Pediatrics, College of 
Medicine, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, Arkansas, 
USA.
(4)College of Agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources, Prairie View A&M 
University, Prairie View, TX 77446, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, 
Augusta, GA, USA; Deptment of Neuroscience & Regenerative Medicine, Augusta, GA 
30912, USA; Centre for Healthy Aging, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta 
University, Augusta, GA, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, 
Augusta, GA, USA; Deptment of Neuroscience & Regenerative Medicine, Augusta, GA 
30912, USA; College of Agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources, Prairie View 
A&M University, Prairie View, TX 77446, USA; Centre for Healthy Aging, Medical 
College of Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, GA, USA; Department of Cell 
Biology and Anatomy, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, GA, USA; 
Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta 
University, Augusta, GA, USA. Electronic address: sfulzele@augusta.edu.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a debilitating neurocognitive disorder with an 
unclear underlying mechanism. Recent studies have implicated gut microbiota 
dysbiosis with the onset and progression of AD. The connection between gut 
microbiota and AD can significantly affect the prevention and treatment of AD 
patients. This systematic review summarizes primary outcomes of human and mouse 
AD models concerning gut microbiota alterations. A systematic literature search 
in February through March 2023 was conducted on PubMed, Embase, and Web of 
Science. We identified 711 as potential manuscripts of which 672 were excluded 
because of irrelevance to the identified search criteria. Primary outcomes 
include microbiota compositions of control and AD models in humans and mice. In 
total, 39 studies were included (19 mouse and 20 human studies), published 
between 2017 and 2023. We included studies involving well-established mice 
models of AD (5xFAD, 3xTg-AD, APP/PS1, Tg2576, and APPPS2) which harbor 
mutations and genes that drive the formation of Aß plaques. All human studies 
were included on those with AD or mild cognitive impairment. Among alterations 
in gut microbiota, most studies found a decreased abundance of the phyla 
Firmicutes and Bifidobacteria, a genus of the phylum Actinomycetota. An 
increased abundance of the phyla Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria were 
identified in animal and human studies. Studies indicated that gut microbiota 
alter the pathogenesis of AD through its impact on neuroinflammation and 
permeability of the gastrointestinal tract. The ensuing increase in blood-brain 
barrier permeability may accelerate Aβ penetrance and formation of neuritic 
plaques that align with the amyloid hypothesis of AD pathogenesis. Further 
studies should assess the relationship between gut microbiota and AD progression 
and therapy preserving beneficial gut microbiota.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2024.114778
PMID: 39672482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors also declare 
that there is no other conflict of interest regarding the publication of this 
manuscript.


15. Exp Neurol. 2025 Mar;385:115115. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115115. Epub
2024  Dec 11.

Pharmacological PTP1B inhibition rescues motor learning, neuroinflammation, and 
hyperglycaemia in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Franklin Z(1), Hull C(2), Delibegovic M(3), Platt B(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Sciences, School of Medicine, Medical Sciences & 
Nutrition, Foresterhill, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, AB25 2ZD, UK. 
Electronic address: zara.franklin@abdn.ac.uk.
(2)Institute of Medical Sciences, School of Medicine, Medical Sciences & 
Nutrition, Foresterhill, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, AB25 2ZD, UK.
(3)Institute of Medical Sciences, School of Medicine, Medical Sciences & 
Nutrition, Foresterhill, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, AB25 2ZD, UK; 
Aberdeen Cardiovascular and Diabetes Centre, Foresterhill, University of 
Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, UK.

BACKGROUND: Patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) frequently suffer from 
comorbidities such as type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), accompanied by shared 
common pathologies such as increased inflammation and impaired glucose 
homeostasis. Beta-secretase 1 (BACE1), the rate limiting enzyme in AD associated 
beta-amyloid (Aβ) production, is also implicated in metabolic dysfunction and 
can increase central and peripheral protein levels of protein tyrosine 
phosphatase 1B (PTP1B). PTP1B is a validated target in diabetes and obesity, and 
is a neuroinflammatory regulator involved in degenerative processes. This study 
investigated the effects of the PTP1B inhibitor, trodusquemine (MSI-1436) on the 
cognitive and metabolic phenotypes of the neuronal human BACE1 knock-in (PLB4) 
mouse, a co-morbidity model of AD and T2DM, and their wild-type (PLBWT) 
controls.
METHODS: Five-month-old male PLB4 and PLBWT mice received PTP1B inhibitor 
treatment (1 mg/kg intraperitoneal injection; 5 weeks). Activity and spatial 
habituation (Phenotyper), motor learning (RotaRod), glucose tolerance, and brain 
and liver molecular analyses were analysed following treatment.
RESULTS: Inhibition of PTP1B improved motor learning alongside glucose tolerance 
in PLB4 mice, without affecting body weight/adiposity. MSI-1436 treatment led to 
lower protein levels of amyloid precursor protein (APP), reduced astrogliosis 
and restoration of the endoplasmic chaperone immunoglobulin heavy chain binding 
protein (BIP) in the brain, alongside decreased insulin receptor substrate-1 
(IRS1) and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4) proteins in the liver.
CONCLUSION: We provide evidence that neuronal BACE1 contributes to 
neuroinflammation and hyperglycaemia in PLB4 mice, and this can be partially 
rescued by PTP1B inhibition. Targeting PTP1B may therefore offer an attractive 
therapeutic approach to ameliorate co-morbidity associated pathologies in AD and 
T2DM.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115115
PMID: 39672227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


16. Ageing Res Rev. 2025 Feb;104:102638. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102638. Epub
2024  Dec 12.

Glial polarization in neurological diseases: Molecular mechanisms and 
therapeutic opportunities.

Liu Y(1), Wu L(2), Peng W(3), Mao X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrated Traditional Chinese & Western Medicine, The Second 
Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 410011, China; National 
Clinical Research Center for Metabolic Diseases, The Second Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha 410011, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Hunan Key Laboratory of Pharmacogenetics 
and National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xiangya Hospital 
Central South University, Changsha 410008, China; Institute of Clinical 
Pharmacology and Engineering Research Center of Applied Technology of 
Pharmacogenomics of Ministry of Education, Central South University, Changsha 
410078, China.
(3)Department of Integrated Traditional Chinese & Western Medicine, The Second 
Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 410011, China; National 
Clinical Research Center for Metabolic Diseases, The Second Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha 410011, China. Electronic address: 
pengweijun87@csu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Hunan Key Laboratory of Pharmacogenetics 
and National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xiangya Hospital 
Central South University, Changsha 410008, China; Institute of Clinical 
Pharmacology and Engineering Research Center of Applied Technology of 
Pharmacogenomics of Ministry of Education, Central South University, Changsha 
410078, China. Electronic address: xiaoyuanm@csu.edu.cn.

Glial cell polarization plays a pivotal role in various neurological disorders. 
In response to distinct stimuli, glial cells undergo polarization to either 
mitigate neurotoxicity or facilitate neural repair following injury, 
underscoring the importance of glial phenotypic polarization in modulating 
central nervous system function. This review presents an overview of glial cell 
polarization, focusing on astrocytes and microglia. It explores the involvement 
of glial polarization in neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, stroke, epilepsy, traumatic brain injury, amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis and meningoencephalitis. Specifically, it 
emphasizes the role of glial cell polarization in disease pathogenesis through 
mechanisms including neuroinflammation, neurodegeneration, calcium signaling 
dysregulation, synaptic dysfunction and immune response. Additionally, it 
summarizes various therapeutic strategies including pharmacological treatments, 
dietary supplements and cell-based therapies, aimed at modulating glial cell 
polarization to ameliorate brain dysfunction. Future research focused on the 
spatio-temporal manipulation of glial polarization holds promise for advancing 
precision diagnosis and treatment of neurological diseases.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102638
PMID: 39672208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


17. Value Health Reg Issues. 2025 Jan;45:101064. doi: 10.1016/j.vhri.2024.101064.
 Epub 2024 Dec 12.

The Burden of Alzheimer's Disease and Its Costs to a Healthcare System in a 
Large Population in Brazil.

Vilarinho AC(1), Ferreira RG(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Sciences Institute, Federal University of Triangulo Mineiro, Uberaba, 
MG, Brazil. Electronic address: vilarinho.anacarolina@gmail.com.
(2)Health Sciences Institute, Federal University of Triangulo Mineiro, Uberaba, 
MG, Brazil.

OBJECTIVES: In Brazil, cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are particularly 
prevalent in the southeastern region, including Minas Gerais, the largest state 
in the area. This study aimed to estimate the disease burden and healthcare 
costs from 2018 to 2022.
METHODS: Data on life expectancy, human development index, population size, and 
gross domestic product per capita were extracted to calculate 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs). Hospital admission data for AD were 
obtained from the Brazilian Unified Health System Department of Informatics 
(DATASUS) database, including the number of cases, deaths, age-specific data, 
and treatment costs. These variables, along with health, social, and 
environmental data, were processed to create risk factor layers, and the mean 
cost per DALY was calculated. Generalized estimating equation models were used 
to analyze the relationship between DALYs and various predictors, controlling 
for spatial autocorrelation. Maps were created to visualize the distribution of 
DALYs and cost per DALY.
RESULTS: There were 323 221 deaths from AD in Brazil, with cities averaging 3.61 
deaths (range 1-73) and 5.43 hospitalizations (range 1-91) annually. The mean 
cost per city over these years was $9935.87 (range $44.22 to $787 307.93). In 
Minas Gerais, significant predictors of the estimated burden of AD include the 
percentage of the population aged 65 years and older, the human development 
index, and the prevalence of cardiovascular diseases. DALYs were higher than 
observed, indicating potential underreporting and insufficient resource 
allocation for AD treatment and prevention.
CONCLUSIONS: These results emphasize the need for region-specific policies and 
strategies to address the AD burden effectively. Policy makers should use this 
information to improve planning and allocate resources appropriately for 
treatment and prevention.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vhri.2024.101064
PMID: 39672085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Disclosures Author disclosure forms can 
be accessed below in the Supplemental Material section.


18. Biosens Bioelectron. 2025 Mar 1;271:117051. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2024.117051. 
Epub 2024 Dec 10.

Fluorescence imaging opens a new window for the diagnosis of early-stage 
Alzheimer's disease.

Fu YX(1), Liu SY(2), Guo WY(1), Mei LC(1), Dai YJ(1), Peng XJ(1), Yin J(1), Wang 
DW(1), Yang GF(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Green Pesticide, International Joint Research Center 
for Intelligent Biosensor Technology and Health, Central China Normal 
University, Wuhan, 430079, PR China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, School of Medicine, Yangtze University, 
Jingzhou, 434023, PR China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Green Pesticide, International Joint Research Center 
for Intelligent Biosensor Technology and Health, Central China Normal 
University, Wuhan, 430079, PR China. Electronic address: 
gfyang@mail.ccnu.edu.cn.

As the global population ages, the incidence and prevalence of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) continues to rise, posing a serious threat to human health. 
Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), which is overexpressed in the brains of patients 
with AD, is a potential drug target and biomarker. However, the molecular 
mechanism underlying BChE's role in the AD process remains unclear. Therefore, 
the development of tools for BChE detection can aid in the diagnosis of AD and 
deepen our understanding of BChE's contribution to disease progression. 
Motivated by a bioinspired strategy based on the natural substrate of BChE, we 
designed a BChE fluorescent probe (HCYO) with a novel recognition group for BChE 
detection to assist in the early diagnosis of AD. This probe can selectively 
detect endogenous BChE with an excellent detection limit of 28.9 ng/mL. Using 
HCYO, we successfully imaged four-week-old mice with an ultraearly AD model, the 
early diagnosis of the disease. Furthermore, using this HCYO probe, we confirmed 
that BChE influences the inflammation-induced upregulation the levels of 
phosphorylated tau and Trigger Receptor Expressed on Myeloid Cells 2, impacting 
AD progression. These findings provide a crucial theoretical basis for the 
development of BChE inhibitors for AD treatment.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2024.117051
PMID: 39671964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


19. JMIR Form Res. 2024 Dec 13;8:e63041. doi: 10.2196/63041.

Perspectives on Technology Use in the Context of Caregiving for Persons With 
Dementia: Qualitative Interview Study.

Grewal KS(1), Gowda-Sookochoff R(1), Peacock S(2), Cammer A(3), McWilliams 
LA(1), Spiteri RJ(4), Haase KR(5), Harrison M(2), Holtslander L(2), MacRae R(6), 
Michael J(7), Green S(1), O'Connell ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Health Studies, College of Arts and Science, 
University of Saskatchewan, Sasktoon, SK, Canada.
(2)College of Nursing, University of Saskatchewan, Sasktoon, SK, Canada.
(3)College of Pharmacy and Nutrition, University of Saskatchewan, Sasktoon, SK, 
Canada.
(4)Department of Computer Science, University of Saskatchewan, Sasktoon, SK, 
Canada.
(5)School of Nursing, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(6)School of Health and Life Sciences, University of the West of Scotland, 
Lanarkshire, Scotland, United Kingdom.
(7)Programs and Services, Alzheimer Society of Saskatchewan, Regina, SK, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Examining ways to support persons with dementia and their caregivers 
to help minimize the disease's impact on individuals, families, and society is 
critical. One emerging avenue for support is technology (eg, smartphones and 
smart homes).
OBJECTIVE: Given the increasing presence of technology in caregiving, it is 
pertinent to appreciate whether and how technology can be most useful to a care 
partner's everyday life. This study aims to further understand care partner 
technology use, attitudes, and the potential role of off-the-shelf technologies 
(eg, smartphones and smart homes) in supporting caregiving from the perspective 
of care partners for persons with dementia.
METHODS: We conducted a telephone cross-sectional survey using random digit 
dialing with 67 self-identified care partners of persons with dementia across 
one Canadian province. Participants were asked about attitudes toward 
technology, barriers to and facilitators for technology use, technology use with 
caregiving, and demographic information. Eight open-ended questions were 
analyzed using content analysis; 2 closed-ended questions about comfort with and 
helpfulness of technology (rated on a scale of 1 to 10) were analyzed with 
frequencies. From these data, an in-depth semistructured interview was created, 
and 10 (15%) randomly sampled care partners from the initial collection of 67 
care partners were interviewed approximately 1 year later, with responses 
analyzed using content analysis.
RESULTS: Frequency analysis rated on a scale of 1 to 10 suggested that care 
partners were comfortable with technology (wearable technology mean 7.94, SD 
2.02; smart home technology mean 6.94, SD 2.09), although they rated the 
helpfulness of technology less strongly (mean 5.02, SD 2.85). Qualitatively, 
care partners described using technology for functional tasks and some 
caregiving. Barriers to technology use included cost, lack of knowledge, 
security or privacy concerns, and undesirable features of technology. 
Facilitators included access to support and the presence of desirable features. 
Some care partners described merging technology with caregiving and reported 
subsequent benefits. Others stated that technology could not be adopted for 
caregiving due to the degree of impairment, fear of negative consequences for 
the person living with dementia, or due to incongruity with the caregiving 
philosophy. Furthermore, care partners noted that their technology use either 
increased or was unchanged as they moved through the COVID-19 pandemic.
CONCLUSIONS: The 2 analyses were conducted separately, but there was notable 
overlap in the data, suggesting temporal stability of identified content. Both 
analyses suggested care partners' relative comfort with technology and its use, 
but other care partners noted concerns about integrating technology and 
caregiving. Care partners' reports of increased technology use throughout the 
COVID-19 pandemic may also suggest that the pandemic impacted their perceptions 
of the usefulness of technology, being influenced by the requirements of their 
reality. Future investigations should examine how to support care partners in 
adopting relevant technology.

©Karl S Grewal, Rory Gowda-Sookochoff, Shelley Peacock, Allison Cammer, Lachlan 
A McWilliams, Raymond J Spiteri, Kristen R Haase, Mary Harrison, Lorraine 
Holtslander, Rhoda MacRae, Joanne Michael, Shoshana Green, Megan E O'Connell. 
Originally published in JMIR Formative Research (https://formative.jmir.org), 
13.12.2024.

DOI: 10.2196/63041
PMCID: PMC11681293
PMID: 39671589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


20. Neurology. 2025 Jan 14;104(1):e210152. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000210152.
Epub  2024 Dec 13.

Phase 2A Proof-of-Concept Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Trial of 
Nicotinamide in Early Alzheimer Disease.

Grill JD(1), Tam S(1), Thai G(1), Vides B(1), Pierce AL(1), Green K(1), Gillen 
DL(1), Teng E(1), Kremen S(1), Beigi M(1), Rissman RA(1), Léger GC(1), 
Balasubramanian A(1), Revta C(1), Morrison R(1), Jennings R(1), Pa J(1), Zhang 
J(1), Jin S(1), Messer K(1), Feldman HH(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders (J.D.G., 
S.T., G.T., B.V., K.G., D.L.G.), University of California, Irvine; Department of 
Psychiatry and Human Behavior (J.D.G.), University of California, Irvine; 
Department of Neurobiology and Behavior (J.D.G., K.G.), University of 
California, Irvine; Division of Geriatric Medicine (S.T.), Department of 
Medicine, University of California, Irvine; Department of Neurology (G.T.), 
University of California, Irvine; Department of Neurology (A.L.P.), Oregon 
Health and Science University; Department of Statistics (D.L.G.), University of 
California, Irvine; Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences (E.T.), 
Stanford University; Department of Neurology (S.K.), Cedars Sinai Medical 
Center; Department of Neurology (M.B.), University of California, Los Angeles; 
Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study (R.A.R., G.C.L., A.B., C.R., R.M., R.J., 
J.P., J.Z., S.J., K.M., H.H.F.), University of California, San Diego; and 
Department of Neurosciences (G.C.L., J.P., H.H.F.), University of California, 
San Diego.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Nicotinamide is a coenzyme involved in cellular 
oxidation-reduction reactions that can inhibit Class III histone deacetylases 
(HDACs) or sirtuins. HDAC inhibition can affect numerous therapeutic pathways, 
including tau phosphorylation. We tested the hypothesis that nicotinamide 
treatment could reduce tau phosphorylation in early Alzheimer disease (AD).
METHODS: We performed a randomized, placebo-controlled, phase 2a 
proof-of-concept trial to evaluate the safety and tolerability of 48 weeks of 
treatment with 1,500 mg of nicotinamide twice a day. The primary outcome was 
level of tau phosphorylated at threonine 231 (p-tau231) in CSF. Prespecified 
secondary outcomes were levels of p-tau181, total tau, amyloid β40 (Aβ40), and 
Aβ42 in CSF and the clinical measures Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale 
(ADAS-cog13), Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living 
Scale-Mild Cognitive Impairment (ADCS-ADL-MCI), and Clinical Dementia Rating 
Summary of Boxes (CDR-SB). Participants were recruited at 2 academic clinical 
centers. Enrollment criteria included diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment or 
mild dementia with CSF biomarker confirmation of AD. The Holm-Bonferroni 
procedure was used to control type I error within biomarker and clinical 
domains.
RESULTS: Of 47 participants enrolled (mean age = 73.8 years; 43% female), 1 
dropped out before treatment initiation and 6 before completion, including 2 in 
the nicotinamide and 4 in the placebo arm. Adverse events (AEs) were balanced by 
arm, with few attributed to treatment. Common AEs included infections and 
nervous system disorders. There was no statistically significant benefit of 
nicotinamide on the primary outcome of week 48 change from baseline in CSF 
p-tau231 (analysis of covariance; estimated mean difference in change between 
arms = -2.06, SE = 4.03; p = 0.61), with observed mean decline in CSF p-tau231 
greater in the nicotinamide arm (-4.7 ± 14.5) than in the placebo arm (-2.3 ± 
10.6). No significant effects of treatment were observed on secondary biomarker 
outcomes (CSF p-tau181, Aβ40, Aβ42, and total tau) in similar models (all p 
values >0.05), with observed mean changes in CSF p-tau181 (0.4 ± 29.8 vs 10.4 ± 
41.8) and total tau (8.4 ± 228.6 vs 60.5 ± 237.5) favoring nicotinamide compared 
with placebo. At week 48, nicotinamide-treated participants experienced less 
decline on CDR-SB (mixed-effect model with repeated measures; estimate = -1.42, 
SE = 0.65; p = 0.03 unadjusted for multiple comparisons), without significant 
differences in cognitive (ADAS-cog; estimate = -1.93, SE = 1.93; p = 0.32) or 
functional (ADCS-ADL-MCI; estimate = -3.10, SE = 1.86; p = 0.10) outcomes.
DISCUSSION: Nicotinamide was safe but did not alter AD biomarkers.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class I evidence that in 
patients with MCI or mild dementia with positive CSF AD biomarkers, 48 weeks of 
nicotinamide, 3,000 mg daily, is no better than placebo in reducing CSF 
p-tau231.
TRIAL REGISTRATION INFORMATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT03061474.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000210152
PMCID: PMC11655133
PMID: 39671543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.D. Grill has consulted for SiteRx and research 
support from NIA, Alzheimer's Association, BrightFocus Foundation, Eli Lilly, 
Genentech, Biogen, and Eisai; and receives personal income from the Alzheimer's 
Association for editorial service. S. Tam, G. Thai, and B. Vides report no 
disclosures relevant to the manuscript. A.L. Pierce reports research support 
from the NIA, Alector, Cognition Therapeutics, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Roche, and 
Vivoryon. K. Green and D.L. Gillen report no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript. E. Teng is a full-time employee of Genentech and reports being a 
stockholder in F. Hoffman-La Roche and listed as a co-inventor on the patent for 
semorinemab for neurodegenerative disease. S. Kremen reports consulting for Eli 
Lilly and research support from Vivoryon and NIA. M. Beigi reports no 
disclosures relevant to the manuscript. R.A. Rissman is on the SABs or is a 
consultant for Neuroquest, Amydis, Precision Med, Lexeo, Libra Therapeutics, and 
UniQure; and received research support from the NIA and the Alzheimer's 
Association. G.C. Léger, A. Balasubramanian, C. Revta, R. Morrison, R. Jennings, 
J. Pa, J. Zhang, S. Jin, and K. Messer report no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript. H.H. Feldman has grant funding from UC Cures (BRD-16-501530) with no 
personal funds received and all payments to UC San Diego for trial coordination. 
In the past 24 months, H.H. Feldman reports grant funding from Annovis (QR 
Pharma), Vivoryon (Probiodrug), Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, AC Immune, and LuMind 
Foundation; Service agreements for consulting activities with LuMind, Genentech 
(DSMB), Roche/Banner (DMC), Tau Consortium (SAB), Axon Neuroscience, Janssen 
Research & Development LLC (DMC), Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals; support for travel 
from Novo Nordisk, Royal Society of Canada, Tau Consortium, Canadian Consortium 
for Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA); Philanthropic donation for the Epstein 
Family Alzheimer Research Collaboration. For these activities, no personal funds 
have been received with all payments to UC San Diego. Royalties for patent: 
Feldman HH (filed November 26, 2008). Detecting and Treating Dementia Serial 
Number 12/3-2691 U.S. Patent No. PCT/US2007/07008. Washington, DC: U.S. Patent 
and Trademark Office. Funds received personally. Go to Neurology.org/N for full 
disclosures.


21. PLoS One. 2024 Dec 13;19(12):e0314725. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0314725. 
eCollection 2024.

Random survival forest model for early prediction of Alzheimer's disease 
conversion in early and late Mild cognitive impairment stages.

Saeed A(1), Waris A(1), Fuwad A(1), Iqbal J(1), Khan J(2), AlQahtani D(2), 
Gilani O(3), Shah UH(4); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Sciences, School of Mechanical and 
Manufacturing Engineering, National University of Sciences and Technology 
(NUST), Islamabad, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering, Prince Sattam 
Bin Abdul Aziz University, Al-Kharj, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Abu Dhabi University, Abu 
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(4)Department of Mechanical Engineering and Artificial Intelligence, Ajman 
University, Ajman, United Arab Emirates.

With a clinical trial failure rate of 99.6% for Alzheimer's Disease (AD), early 
diagnosis is critical. Machine learning (ML) models have shown promising results 
in early AD prediction, with survival ML models outperforming typical 
classifiers by providing probabilities of disease progression over time. This 
study utilized various ML survival models to predict the time-to-conversion to 
AD for early (eMCI) and late (lMCI) Mild Cognitive Impairment stages, 
considering their different progression rates. ADNI data, consisting of 291 eMCI 
and 546 lMCI cases, was preprocessed to handle missing values and data 
imbalance. The models used included Random Survival Forest (RSF), Extra Survival 
Trees (XST), Gradient Boosting (GB), Survival Tree (ST), Cox-net, and Cox 
Proportional Hazard (CoxPH). We evaluated cognitive, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
biomarkers, and neuroimaging modalities, both individually and combined, to 
identify the most influential features. Our results indicate that RSF 
outperformed traditional CoxPH and other ML models. For eMCI, RSF trained on 
multimodal data achieved a C-Index of 0.90 and an IBS of 0.10. For lMCI, the 
C-Index was 0.82 and the IBS was 0.16. Cognitive tests showed a statistically 
significant improvement over other modalities, underscoring their reliability in 
early prediction. Furthermore, RSF-generated individual survival curves from 
baseline data facilitate clinical decision-making, aiding clinicians in 
developing personalized treatment plans and implementing preventive measures to 
slow or prevent AD progression in prodromal stages.

Copyright: © 2024 Saeed et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0314725
PMCID: PMC11642905
PMID: 39671432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


22. J Interv Card Electrophysiol. 2025 Jan;68(1):9-19. doi: 
10.1007/s10840-024-01955-z. Epub 2024 Dec 13.

Upstream targeting for the prevention of atrial fibrillation: Targeting Risk 
Interventions and Metformin for Atrial Fibrillation (TRIM-AF)-rationale and 
study design.

Wass SY(1)(2), Barnard J(3)(4), Kim HS(2), Sun H(3), Telfer W(2), Schilling 
T(2), Barzilai B(1), Bruemmer D(1), Cho L(1), Huang J(1), Hussein A(1), Kashyap 
SR(5), Laffin L(1), Mehra R(6), Moravec C(2)(4), Saliba W(1), Sanders P(7), 
Nissen S(1), Varma N(1), Smith J(2)(4), Van Wagoner D(2)(4), Chung MK(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Heart, Vascular & Thoracic Institute, 
Cleveland, USA.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences, Lerner Research 
Institute, Cleveland, USA.
(3)Departments of Quantitative Health Sciences, Lerner Research Institute, 
Cleveland, USA.
(4)Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(5)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, USA.
(6)Department of Endocrinology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, USA.
(7)Centre for Heart Rhythm Disorders, University of Adelaide and Royal Adelaide 
Hospital, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(8)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Heart, Vascular & Thoracic Institute, 
Cleveland, USA. chungm@ccf.org.
(9)Department of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences, Lerner Research 
Institute, Cleveland, USA. chungm@ccf.org.
(10)Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA. chungm@ccf.org.

BACKGROUND: Despite advances in ablation and other therapies for AF, progression 
of atrial fibrillation (AF) remains a significant clinical problem, associated 
with worse prognosis and worse treatment outcomes. Upstream therapies targeting 
inflammatory or antifibrotic mechanisms have been disappointing in preventing AF 
progression, but more recently genetic and genomic studies in AF suggest novel 
cellular and metabolic stress targets, supporting prior studies of lifestyle and 
risk factor modification (LRFM) for AF. However, while obesity is a significant 
risk factor, weight loss and risk factor modification have not been successfully 
applied in a US population with AF. Metformin, a common drug that targets 
metabolic stress pathways, has demonstrated potential in reducing the burden of 
AF.
METHODS: The Targeting Risk Interventions and Metformin for Atrial Fibrillation 
(TRIM-AF, NCT03603912) is a randomized clinical trial designed to examine 
reduction of AF burden and progression, targeting metabolic upstream therapies. 
This single center trial, at the Cleveland Clinic, is designed as a prospective 
randomized open-label blinded endpoint (PROBE) 2 × 2 factorial study of 
metformin extended release up to 750 mg twice daily and lifestyle and risk 
factor modification (LRFM) in patients with a cardiovascular implantable 
electronic device (CIED) that have had at least one ≥ 5-min episode of atrial 
fibrillation (AF) over the prior 3 months. Randomization is stratified by 
pacemaker vs. ICD and rhythm at enrollment (sinus rhythm/atrial paced vs. AF).
CONCLUSION: TRIM-AF trial aims to determine if metformin, lifestyle, and risk 
factor modification (LRFM) reduce AF burden and its progression and assess 
whether combined therapy outperforms individual treatments.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ ; Unique Identifier: 
NCT03603912.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10840-024-01955-z
PMCID: PMC11832320
PMID: 39671157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: Not applicable. 
Informed consent: Not applicable. Conflict of interest: Dr. Bruemmer serves as a 
consultant for Bayer Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, and Esperion 
Therapeutic, Inc. DB performs research with Novartis. Dr. Chung has received 
funds for service on the American Board of Internal Medicine and as an Associate 
Editor for Circulation:Arrhythmia & Electrophysiology; she has received 
royalties from UpToDate and Elsevier. She receives funding as noted under 
Sources of Funding. Dr. Laffin serves/served as a consultant or on steering 
committees for Recor, Medtronic, Eli Lilly, Mineralys, Crispr Therapeutics, 
Idorsia, Novo Nordisk, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals, Ripple Medical, and Stability 
Health. He has received research funding from AstraZeneca for studies of 
rosuvastatin. He receives royalties from Belvoir Media Group, Elsevier, and 
Springer Nature. Dr. Mehra has received an honorarium from the American Academy 
of Sleep Medicine; has received funds for service on the American Board of 
Internal Medicine writing group and as associate editor of the American Journal 
of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine; has received National Institutes of 
Health funding (R21HL170206); funding from the Women in Alzheimer’s Movement; 
funds from Eli Lilly and Mineralys; and has received royalties from UpToDate. 
Dr. Nissen reports that the Cleveland Clinic Center for Clinical Research has 
received funding to perform clinical trials from Abbvie, AstraZeneca, Amgen, 
Arrowhead, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Esperion, Medtronic, MyoKardia, New 
Amsterdam Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, Pfizer, and Silence Therapeutics. Dr. 
Nissen is involved in these clinical trials but receives no personal 
remuneration for his participation. Dr. Nissen consults for these pharmaceutical 
companies, but does not accept compensation. Dr. Saliba serves on advisory 
boards for Boston Scientific and Biosense Webster. Dr. Sanders is supported by 
an Investigator Grant Fellowship from the National Health and Medical Research 
Council of Australia. Dr. Sanders reports serving on the advisory board for 
Medtronic, Abbott Medical, Boston-Scientific, CathRx and Pacemate. PS reports 
that the University of Adelaide receives on his behalf research funding from 
Medtronic, Abbott Medical, Boston-Scientific, and Becton Dickenson.


23. Metab Brain Dis. 2024 Dec 13;40(1):62. doi: 10.1007/s11011-024-01479-5.

Exploring role of citrus fruits in comorbid neurodegenerative disorders 
associated with psoriasis.

Ali A(1), Chaudhary A(1), Sharma A(2), Siddiqui N(1), Anurag(3), Parihar VK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Meerut Institute of Engineering & 
Technology (MIET), Meerut, 250005, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Meerut Institute of Engineering & 
Technology (MIET), Meerut, 250005, India. alokalok22@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER) Hajipur, Hajipur, 844102, India.

A neurodegenerative illness is a disorder in which the brain and/or spinal 
cord's neurons, or nerve cells, gradually deteriorate and disappear. These 
illnesses often get worse with time and can seriously affect movement, 
cognition, and other neurological functions. Psoriasis is a long-term autoimmune 
skin condition marked by fast skin cell growth that results in red, elevated 
areas coated in silvery-white scales. It can affect several body parts, such as 
the elbows, knees, scalp, and lower back, and it is not communicable. The 
build-up of amyloid beta [Aβ] protein is linked to elevated levels of reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) (Kim et al. 2020). These ROS can trigger multiple pathways, 
including MAPK, NFkB, JAK/STAT, and interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β), ultimately 
playing a role in the development of neurodegenerative illnesses like 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and psoriasis. People who have psoriasis are more 
likely to acquire AD, as psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin condition that 
is genetically connected. Because of the antioxidants and anti-inflammatory 
properties of citrus fruits neurodegenerative and psoriasis disease may be 
prevented. The neuroprotective action of bioactives in citrus fruits involves 
the inhibition of inflammation through the control of p38 mitogen-activated 
protein kinase (MAPK) and the activation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related 
factor 2 (Nrf2). Due to their immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory qualities, 
polyphenols may be able to control the immune response in psoriasis. We 
performed a thorough review in order to investigate for the first time to 
understand the role of citrus fruits in comorbid neurodegenerative disorders 
associated with psoriasis. For better understanding into the possible 
applications of citrus fruits in treating psoriasis and neurodegenerative 
disease would require additional studies focusing directly on the relationship 
between citrus fruits consumption in managing neurodegenerative and psoriasis 
disease.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-024-01479-5
PMID: 39671136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: The author 
confirms the original data of the manuscript. The author has done effective 
literature searches using various electronic search tools. The author discussed 
the pharmacological, and phytochemical sections of the manuscript. All the 
authors clarify that they have participated sincerely in the literature, 
reviewing, and writing of the manuscript. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


24. Ther Innov Regul Sci. 2025 Mar;59(2):264-277. doi:
10.1007/s43441-024-00708-4.  Epub 2024 Dec 13.

Mixture Disease Progression Model to Predict and Cluster the Long-Term 
Trajectory of Cognitive Decline in Alzheimer's Disease.

Hanazawa R(1), Sato H(1), Hirakawa A(2); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biostatistics, Graduate School of Medical and Dental 
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 
113-8510, Japan.
(2)Department of Clinical Biostatistics, Graduate School of Medical and Dental 
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 
113-8510, Japan. a-hirakawa.crc@tmd.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease for which 
many clinical trials failed to detect treatment effects, possibly due to the 
heterogeneity of disease progression among the patients. Predicting and 
clustering a long-term trajectory of cognitive decline from the short-term 
cognition data of individual patients would help develop therapeutic 
interventions for AD.
METHODS: This study developed mixture disease progression model to predict and 
cluster the long-term trajectory of cognitive decline in the population. We 
predicted the 30-year long-term trajectories of the three cognitive scales and 
categorized the individuals into rapid and slow cognitive decliners by applying 
the method, which was based on the two-component normal mixture nonlinear 
mixed-effects model, to the short-term follow-up data of the Mini-Mental State 
Examination, the 13-item Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive, and the 
Clinical Dementia Rating Scale-sum of boxes collected in patients with mild 
cognitive impairment and AD in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.
RESULTS: For each cognitive scale, the models identified two distinct 
subpopulations, including a population of comprising approximately 10-20% of 
individuals experiencing rapid cognitive decline, wherein the posterior means of 
the differences in cognitive decline speed between the two groups ranged from 2 
to 3 years. We also identified baseline background factors associated with rapid 
decliners for three cognitive scales.
CONCLUSION: Identifying the risk factors associated with rapid decline of 
cognition by the proposed method aids in planning eligibility criteria and 
allocation strategy for accounting for the varying disease progression speeds 
among the patients enrolled in clinical trials for AD.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Drug Information 
Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1007/s43441-024-00708-4
PMID: 39671047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


25. J Med Chem. 2025 Feb 13;68(3):2720-2741. doi: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.4c02074.
Epub  2024 Dec 13.

In Silico Enabled Discovery of KAI-11101, a Preclinical DLK Inhibitor for the 
Treatment of Neurodegenerative Disease and Neuronal Injury.

Lagiakos HR(1), Zou Y(2), Igawa H(1), Therrien E(1), Lawrenz M(2), Kato M(1), 
Svensson M(1), Gray F(3), Jensen K(1), Dahlgren MK(1), Pelletier RD(1), Dingley 
K(1), Bell JA(1), Liu Z(1), Jiang Y(4), Zhou H(4), Skene RJ(5), Nie Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Schrödinger Inc., New York, New York 10036, United States.
(2)Schrödinger Inc., San Diego, California 92122, United States.
(3)Schrödinger Inc., Portland, Oregon 97204, United States.
(4)Viva Biotech, Shanghai 201203, China.
(5)Takeda California Inc., San Diego, California 92121, United States.

Dual leucine zipper kinase (DLK), expressed primarily in neuronal cells, is a 
regulator of neuronal degeneration in response to cellular stress from chronic 
disease or neuronal injury. This makes it an attractive target for the treatment 
of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis, and neuronal injury, such as chemotherapy-induced peripheral 
neuropathy. Here, we describe the discovery of a potent, selective, 
brain-penetrant DLK inhibitor, KAI-11101 (59). Throughout the program's 
progression, medicinal chemistry challenges such as potency, hERG inhibition, 
CNS penetration, CYP3A time-dependent inhibition, and kinase selectivity were 
overcome through the implementation of cutting-edge in silico tools. KAI-11101 
displayed an excellent in vitro safety profile and showed neuroprotective 
properties in an ex vivo axon fragmentation assay as well as dose-dependent 
activity in a mouse PD model.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.4c02074
PMID: 39670820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(3):587-596. doi: 10.1177/13872877241289549.
Epub  2024 Oct 29.

Reporting of comorbidities and health status of participants in clinical trials 
testing amyloid- and tau-targeting monoclonal antibodies for Alzheimer's 
disease: A systematic review.

Canevelli M(1)(2)(3), Ancidoni A(2), Valletta M(3), Toccaceli Blasi M(1), Alfano 
AR(4), Buscarnera S(1), Salzillo M(1), Nuti F(1), Zambri F(2), Di Nolfi A(2)(5), 
Lacorte E(2), Grande G(3), Vanacore N(2), Bruno G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Neuroscience, Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(2)National Center for Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Italian National 
Institute of Health, Rome, Italy.
(3)Aging Research Center, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, 
Karolinska Institutet and Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties, UOC Geriatrics, 
Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(5)Department of Biomedicine and Prevention, Tor Vergata University, Rome, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND: Controversies exist around the external validity of clinical trials 
on disease-modifying treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Detailed 
information on the clinical characteristics of research participants is lacking, 
hampering the understanding of their representativeness.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to systematically review the baseline comorbidities 
and health status of patients with AD enrolled in clinical trials.
METHODS: A systematic review of scientific and gray literature was conducted. 
Randomized controlled trials, enrolling participants in the AD continuum, and 
testing amyloid- and tau-targeting monoclonal antibodies were selected. Data on 
the type of study and intervention and the baseline clinical characteristics of 
participants were extracted. The proportion of studies reporting information on 
comorbidities, integrative measures of health (e.g., number of chronic diseases 
and multimorbidity, frailty, and gait speed), and non-neurological concomitant 
therapies of participants was calculated.
RESULTS: Thirty-six articles, referring to 41 studies (21,952 participants) were 
included. None of the retained trials provided information on the comorbidities 
or other integrative measures reflecting the baseline health status of 
participants. Only three studies reported data on non-neurological concomitant 
therapies. Five documents providing relevant information were identified through 
gray literature searches covering the websites of regulatory agencies and 
pharmaceutical manufacturers.
CONCLUSIONS: The health characteristics of patients with AD included in 
randomized controlled trials are poorly reported. Therefore, the external 
validity of the study findings cannot be fully appreciated.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241289549
PMID: 39670739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsMarco 
Toccaceli Blasi is an Editorial Board Member of this journal but was not 
involved in the peer-review process of this article nor had access to any 
information regarding its peer-review.


27. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(3):683-702. doi: 10.1177/13872877241291908.
Epub  2024 Oct 29.

Benefits of nostalgic landmarks for people living with Alzheimer's disease.

Oliver A(1), Wildschut T(2), Redhead ES(2), Parker MO(3), Sharif S(1), Wood 
AP(2), Sedikides C(2), Cheston R(4).

Author information:
(1)Memory Assessment & Research Centre, Moorgreen Hospital, Southampton, UK.
(2)School of Psychology, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(3)Surrey Sleep Research Centre, School of Biosciences, University of Surrey, 
Guildford, UK.
(4)School of Social Sciences, University of the West of England, Bristol, UK.

BACKGROUND: Emerging literature shows that nostalgia induced by autobiographical 
reflection and music confers psychological benefits to people living with 
dementia.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to test the potential benefits of nostalgic 
landmarks for people living with Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: We displayed the landmarks as wall-mounted pictures within a virtual 
environment. In Experiment 1, we developed the nostalgia manipulation by using 
pictures associated with the decade during which participants lived most of 
their childhood. To examine the effectiveness, tolerability, and safety of this 
pictorial nostalgia induction, we conducted the experiment with 172 healthy 
adults. In Experiment 2, we recruited 20 participants living with Alzheimer's 
disease who experienced mild to moderate cognitive impairments. We further 
personalized the pictorial nostalgia induction by interviewing them about fond 
memories from their past and generating images corresponding to these events. We 
hypothesized that navigating a virtual environment with wall-mounted nostalgic 
(compared to control) pictures would confer psychological benefits.
RESULTS: The nostalgic (versus control) pictures evoked higher levels of 
momentary nostalgia; the manipulation was successful (Experiments 1 and 2). 
Compared to control pictures, nostalgic pictures significantly increased 
self-reported positive (but not negative) affect, self-esteem, self-continuity, 
social connectedness, and meaning in life (Experiments 1 and 2). Participants in 
the nostalgia condition (compared to controls) evinced better picture 
recognition, but not improved spatial memory (Experiment 2).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that nostalgic landmarks confer 
psychological benefits and enhance picture recognition among people living with 
Alzheimer's disease. This work has real-world applications for dementia-friendly 
design and therapy-related practices.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241291908
PMID: 39670735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


28. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2025 May;73(5):1528-1534. doi: 10.1111/jgs.19316. Epub 2024
 Dec 13.

A cross-sectional analysis of open payments from pharmaceutical companies to 
memory center physicians.

Rydberg MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.

BACKGROUND: The development of anti-amyloid monoclonal antibodies has changed 
the landscape of care for patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The potential 
for financial conflicts of interest (COIs) for physicians related to these 
medications is unknown.
METHODS: A cross-sectional analysis of open payments from industry to physicians 
working in memory clinics was conducted. The US News Best Hospitals for 
Neurology and Neurosurgery was used to identify the top 50 ranked hospitals. For 
each hospital, a google search was performed to identify any affiliated memory 
clinic. A list of physicians practicing in the memory clinic was identified from 
public websites. Physician specialty (neurology, geriatrics, psychiatry, or 
other) was abstracted. The Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services Open Payments 
database was used to search for general industry payments to each physician for 
the years 2020-2023. Mean and median yearly payments and number of payments were 
calculated. Payments from all pharmaceutical companies as well as the 
pharmaceutical companies responsible for lecanemab (Biogen and Eisai) and 
donanemab (Eli Lilly and Company/Lilly USA) were abstracted.
RESULTS: Thirty-one memory clinics with 244 total physicians were identified; 
173 were neurologists, 37 psychiatrists, 30 geriatricians, and 4 other 
specialists. Mean one-year payment was $1562 (SD 4021) for neurologists, $974 
(SD 5153) for geriatricians, and $460 (SD 1932) for psychiatrists. Forty 
neurologists (40/173, 23%) received mean yearly payments of ≥$1000, compared 
with one geriatrician (1/30, 3.3%) and two psychiatrists (2/37, 5.4%). Payments 
from Biogen, Eisai, and Eli Lilly and Company/Lilly USA comprised 51% of general 
payments.
CONCLUSIONS: Most physicians working in a sample of memory clinics received no 
or low amounts of general payments. Neurologists were more likely to receive 
general payments from industry. Payments from Biogen, Eisai, and Eli Lilly and 
Company/Lilly USA were substantial. Future work should evaluate the relationship 
between industry payments and anti-amyloid prescribing patterns.

© 2024 The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.19316
PMID: 39670447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Pac Symp Biocomput. 2025;30:441-456. doi: 10.1142/9789819807024_0032.

Biologically Enhanced Machine Learning Model to uncover Novel Gene-Drug Targets 
for Alzheimer's Disease.

Orlenko A(1), Venkatesan M(1), Shen L(2), Ritchie MD(3), Wang ZP(1), 
Obafemi-Ajayi T(4), Moore JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computational Biomedicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Informatics, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Genetics and Institute for Biomedical Informatics, Perelman 
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Engineering Program Missouri State University, Springfield, Missouri, USA.

Given the complexity and multifactorial nature of Alzheimer's disease, 
investigating potential drug-gene targets is imperative for developing effective 
therapies and advancing our understanding of the underlying mechanisms driving 
the disease. We present an explainable ML model that integrates the role and 
impact of gene interactions to drive the genomic variant feature selection. The 
model leverages both the Alzheimer's knowledge base and the Drug-Gene 
interaction database (DGIdb) to identify a list of biologically plausible novel 
gene-drug targets for further investigation. Model validation is performed on an 
ethnically diverse study sample obtained from the Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing 
Project (ADSP), a multi-ancestry multi-cohort genomic study. To mitigate 
population stratification and spurious associations from ML analysis, we 
implemented novel data curation methods. The study outcomes include a set of 
possible gene targets for further functional follow-up and drug repurposing.

DOI: 10.1142/9789819807024_0032
PMID: 39670388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Hypertension. 2025 Feb;82(2):347-356. doi: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.124.24001.
 Epub 2024 Dec 13.

Baroreflex Sensitivity and Long-Term Dementia Risk in Older Adults.

Ma Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Hamaya R(1)(2), Westerhof BE(3)(4), Shaltout HA(5), Kavousi 
M(6), Mattace-Raso F(7), Hofman A(1)(6), Wolters FJ(6), Lipsitz LA(8), Ikram 
MA(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA (Y.M., Y.Z., R.H., A.H.).
(2)Division of Preventive Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 
(R.H.).
(3)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Amsterdam Cardiovascular Sciences, 
Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, The Netherlands (B.E.W.).
(4)Westerhof Cardiovascular Research, Amstelveen, The Netherlands (B.E.W.).
(5)Department of Surgery-Hypertension and Vascular Research Center, Wake Forest 
School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC (H.A.S.).
(6)Department of Epidemiology (M.K., A.H., F.J.W., M.A.I.), Erasmus MC 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Internal Medicine (F.M.-R.), Erasmus MC 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Hebrew SeniorLife Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Beth 
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 
(L.A.L.).

BACKGROUND: Increased blood pressure (BP) variability is linked to dementia 
risk, but the relationship between baroreflex sensitivity (BRS), a fundamental 
mechanism for maintaining stable BP, and dementia risk is undetermined.
METHODS: We tested the hypothesis that impaired BRS is associated with increased 
dementia risk in 1819 older adults (63% women; age, 71.0±6.3 years) from the 
community-based Rotterdam Study. Cardiac BRS was determined from a 5-minute 
beat-to-beat BP recording at supine rest between 1997 and 1999. Cardiac BRS 
measures the correlation between changes in consecutive beat-to-beat systolic BP 
and subsequent responses in heartbeat intervals, with a higher value indicating 
better BRS. The primary outcome was incident dementia ascertained from baseline 
through January 1, 2020; the secondary outcome was all-cause mortality.
RESULTS: During a median follow-up of 14.8 years, 421 participants developed 
dementia. The association of cardiac BRS with dementia risk differed by 
antihypertensive medication use (Pinteraction=0.03) and was only observed in 
participants not taking antihypertensives. Specifically, in those not taking 
antihypertensive medication, reduced BRS was associated with a higher risk of 
dementia (adjusted hazard ratio comparing bottom versus top quintiles, 1.60 [95% 
CI, 1.07-2.40]; Ptrend=0.02). Reduced BRS was also associated with an increased 
risk of death (corresponding hazard ratio, 1.76 [95% CI, 1.32-2.35]). The 
association remained after adjusting for average BP and BP variability.
CONCLUSIONS: Impaired BRS partly explains hypertension-related brain damage and 
excessive dementia risk beyond conventional BP measures, making it a potential 
novel biomarker for the early detection and prevention of dementia.

DOI: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.124.24001
PMCID: PMC11735285
PMID: 39670317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


31. Heliyon. 2024 Feb 28;10(5):e26643. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e26643. 
eCollection 2024 Mar 15.

Integrated network pharmacology and brain metabolomics to analyze the mechanism 
of Dihuang Yinzi intervention in Alzheimer's disease.

Zhang J(1), Li Q(1), Yan B(1), Wang Q(1), Zhou Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medicine, Heilongjiang University Of Chinese Medicine, 
Harbin, 150040, China.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an incurable 
neurodegenerative disease that has become one of the most important diseases 
threatening global public health security. Dihuang Yinzi (DHYZ) is a traditional 
Chinese medicine that has been widely used for the treatment of AD and has 
significant therapeutic effects, but its specific mechanism of action is still 
unclear.The aim of the study is to investigate the specific mechanism of DHYZ in 
treating AD based on brain metabolomics and network pharmacology.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, the classic APPswe/PS1E9 (APP/PS1) mice 
were selected as the AD animal model, and the mechanism of DHYZ was studied. The 
learning and memory ability of mice was detected by Y-maze test, and the 
ultrastructure of neural cells in the brain of the mice was observed by 
transmission electron microscope (TEM). Then, the mechanism of DHYZ intervention 
in AD was analyzed by constructing network pharmacology, and combined with brain 
metabolomics based on ultra performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry 
(UPLC-MS) to detect differential metabolic markers and their metabolic pathways. 
In addition, a joint analysis of differential metabolites and potential targets 
for DHYZ treatment of AD is conducted to deeply explore the relationship between 
key targets, differential metabolites, and metabolic pathways.
RESULTS: After 30 days of DHYZ treatment, the spatial work and reference memory 
ability of APP/PS1 mice were significantly improved, the structure of 
mitochondria and synapses in the neurons of the brain were basically normal. 202 
potential targets for DHYZ treatment of AD were screened through network 
pharmacology, and after enrichment analysis, these targets showed correlation 
with redox reactions, mitochondrial and synaptic functional pathways. And 7 
differential metabolites were identified in brain metabolomics are Nicotinic 
acid, N-Formyl-L-glutamic acid, 5-(2-Hydroxyethyl)-4-methylthiazole, 
D-Gulono-1,4-lactone, Norepinephrine, 3-Methylotrophicacid, Palmitic acid. These 
differential metabolites mainly involve nicotinite and nicotinamide metabolism, 
pertussis, cAMP signaling pathway, cysteine and methionine metabolism. 
Notablely, through matching analysis of targets and metabolites, a total of 20 
genes were found to match Nicotinic acid, 51 genes were found to match 
norepinephrine, and 14 genes intersected with the two metabolites, enrichment 
analysis of the intersected genes showed that neuroactive light receptor 
interaction, serotonergic synapse, and cAMP signaling were significantly 
affected, which is consistent with previous network pharmacology results.
CONCLUSION: This study identified the main chemical ingredients of DHYZ 
intervention in AD may originated from Polygala tenuifolia Wild, Dendrobium 
nobile Line and Ophiogon japonicus (L.f) Ker-Gawl. Combined with Y Maze, TEM and 
brain metabolomics, revealed that DHYZ can improve the learning and memory 
abilities and brain pathological morphology of APP/PS1 mice by regulating 
nicotinic acid, 3-Methylthiopropionic acid, pertussis and their metabolic 
pathways, including nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, cAMP signaling 
pathway and cysteine and methionine metabolism. In short, this study provides a 
new research foundation and direction for the treatment of AD with traditional 
Chinese medicine.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e26643
PMCID: PMC11636838
PMID: 39669488

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


32. Beilstein J Org Chem. 2024 Dec 3;20:3151-3173. doi: 10.3762/bjoc.20.261. 
eCollection 2024.

Multicomponent reactions driving the discovery and optimization of agents 
targeting central nervous system pathologies.

Campos-Prieto L(#)(1)(2), García-Rey A(#)(1)(2), Sotelo E(1)(2), Mallo-Abreu 
A(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Centro Singular de Investigación en Química Biolóxica e Materiais Moleculares 
(CIQUS), Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, 15782 Santiago de Compostela, 
Spain.
(2)Departamento de Química Orgánica, Facultade de Farmacia, Universidade de 
Santiago de Compostela, 15782 Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(3)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry (CSIC Associated Unit), Faculty of Pharmacy 
and Food Sciences, University of Barcelona, Av. Joan XXIII, 27-31, E-08028 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Institute of Biomedicine of the University of Barcelona (IBUB), Av. Diagonal 
643, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

The ongoing quest to discover effective treatments for diseases remains a 
significant challenge for the scientific community. Multicomponent reactions 
(MCRs) have emerged as powerful tools in accelerating drug discovery, enabling 
the rapid generation of chemical libraries with high diversity in a 
time-efficient and environmentally sustainable manner. In this review, we focus 
on central nervous system (CNS) disorders, particularly Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, depression, and epilepsy, where MCRs have 
contributed to the development of promising ligands in recent years. Rather than 
providing an exhaustive overview, this review aims to highlight key studies that 
address major CNS pathologies, relevant drug targets, and various MCR 
approaches. We have carefully selected representative articles and apologize to 
the authors whose important contributions may not be included. By concentrating 
on these pivotal studies, we strive to offer a clear and concise perspective on 
current research trends and breakthroughs in this field.

Copyright © 2024, Campos-Prieto et al.

DOI: 10.3762/bjoc.20.261
PMCID: PMC11635293
PMID: 39669443


33. Aging Ment Health. 2025 May;29(5):897-905. doi:
10.1080/13607863.2024.2437060.  Epub 2024 Dec 13.

The effect of cognitive stimulation therapy (CST) on apathy, loneliness, anxiety 
and activities of daily living in older people with Alzheimer's disease: 
randomized control study.

Atay E(1), Bahadır Yılmaz E(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Nursing Department, Hasan Kalyoncu University, 
Gaziantep, Turkey.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, Nursing Department, Giresun University, Giresun, 
Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: This study was conducted to determine the effect of Cognitive 
Stimulation Therapy (CST) on apathy, loneliness, anxiety, and activities of 
daily living of individuals with Alzheimer's disease.
METHOD: The study was conducted in a daily care center between January 2023 and 
January 2024 in a randomized control study. A total of 52 people, 26 
intervention and 26 control groups, were enrolled in the study and formed the 
sample of the study. Demographic Information Form, Apathy Evaluation Scale 
(AES-C), Geriatric Anxiety Scale (GAS), UCLA Loneliness Scale Short Form 
(UCLA-SF), and Functional Impairment in Dementia Scale (DAD) were used in the 
study.
RESULTS: After the intervention, it was found that the intervention group's 
levels of apathy, loneliness and anxiety were significantly reduced compared to 
the control group. In the intra-group comparisons, it was found that there was a 
significant difference between the pre-test and post-test scores of the AES-C, 
UCLA-SF, GAS of the individuals in the intervention group after the application 
of CST, and between the pre-test and pre-test scores of the DAD (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: CST was found to be effective in reducing apathy, loneliness and 
anxiety levels and increasing daily living activities in older people with 
Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1080/13607863.2024.2437060
PMID: 39668706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Med Econ. 2025 Dec;28(1):81-88. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2024.2442240. Epub
2024  Dec 24.

Real-world healthcare resource utilization of Alzheimer's disease in the early 
and advanced stages: a retrospective cohort study.

Fazio-Eynullayeva E(1), Cunnington M(2), Mystkowski P(1), Lv L(1), Aly A(1), Yee 
CW(3), Desai R(3), Liu CL(2), Duh MS(3), Mattke S(4).

Author information:
(1)Novo Nordisk Inc., Plainsboro, NJ, USA.
(2)Analysis Group Ltd., London, UK.
(3)Analysis Group, Inc., Boston, MA, USA.
(4)The USC Brain Health Observatory, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.

AIMS: To compare all-cause and Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related healthcare 
resource utilization (HCRU) by cognitive stage.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: This retrospective study analyzed insurance claims data 
linked to electronic health records (01/01/2015-12/31/2021). Patients with ≥1 
cognitive assessment (Mini-Mental State Examination or Montreal Cognitive 
Assessment) and ≥1 medical or pharmacy claim for an AD diagnosis or AD 
medications were included. Inverse probability of treatment weighting (IPTW) was 
used to address potential confounding. All-cause and AD-related HCRU were 
summarized per patient per year (PPPY) and compared between early AD and 
advanced AD cohorts (defined according to cognitive scores) using generalized 
linear regression models; adjusted incidence rate ratios (IRRs), and 95% 
confidence intervals (CI) were reported.
RESULTS: A total of 193 patients were included (median age: 82 years; 63.2% 
female), 108 with early AD and 85 with advanced AD, with similar mean follow up. 
All-cause HCRU, on average, was similar between early AD and advanced AD cohorts 
(37.4 PPPY and 38.9 encounters PPPY, respectively). For AD-related HCRU, 
patients with early AD had fewer encounters PPPY, on average, than patients with 
advanced AD (1.26 and 3.88 encounters, respectively). Following IPTW adjustment, 
the advanced AD cohort had significantly higher overall AD-related HCRU (IRR: 
3.64 [95% CI: 1.96-6.75], p < 0.001) and outpatient visits (IRR: 2.76 [95% CI: 
1.68-4.54], p < 0.001) compared to the early AD cohort.
LIMITATIONS: The relatively small sample size of patients with linked claims and 
cognitive score data limited the ability to assess contribution of all encounter 
types to HCRU trends, as well as generalizability to the broader AD population.
CONCLUSIONS: Although all-cause HCRU was similar, patients with advanced AD 
incurred higher AD-related HCRU compared to patients living with early AD. 
Further research is needed to determine whether interventions earlier in disease 
progression can mitigate the AD-related healthcare burden for patients with 
advanced AD.

Plain Language Summary: Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the main cause of dementia 
in older adults in the United States. Beyond the clinical challenges faced by 
patients with AD, the burden of healthcare resource utilization (HCRU) from 
different types of healthcare visits and interactions are significant. However, 
differences in HCRU burden between patients with early and advanced AD is not 
well studied. We conducted a study using insurance claims data linked to 
electronic health records to compare all-cause and AD-related HCRU between 
patients with early and advanced AD. A total of 108 patients with early AD and 
85 patients with advanced AD were included. There was no statistically 
significant difference in all-cause HCRU between the groups which may reflect 
changing patterns of healthcare interactions as AD progresses. However, patients 
with advanced AD incurred significantly higher HCRU related to their underlying 
AD, on average 3.64 times more frequent healthcare encounters of any type 
compared to patients living with early AD. This was driven by higher rates of 
AD-related outpatient visits among the advanced AD cohort. The significantly 
higher AD-related HCRU in patients with advanced AD, compared to those in the 
early stages, highlights the potential for disease-modifying treatments 
administered earlier in the disease course to significantly reduce the 
associated healthcare burden.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2024.2442240
PMID: 39668705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Mol Oral Microbiol. 2025 Apr;40(2):94-103. doi: 10.1111/omi.12488. Epub 2024
Dec  12.

Detection of Amyloid-β Peptides in Gingival Crevicular Fluid and Its Effect on 
Oral Pathogens.

Liao Y(1)(2), Chen HW(1)(2), Qiu C(1)(2), Shen H(1)(2), He ZY(2)(3), Song 
ZC(1)(2), Zhou W(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)National Center for Stomatology, National Clinical Research Center for Oral 
Diseases, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology, Shanghai Research Institute of 
Stomatology, Shanghai, China.
(3)Laboratory of Oral Microbiota and Systemic Diseases, Shanghai Ninth People's 
Hospital, College of Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Periodontitis is the most common oral inflammatory disease, contributing to the 
onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease. However, a full investigation has 
not been performed on the expression level of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides in 
gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) and its effects on oral pathogens. This study 
aimed to analyze the expression level of Aβ peptides in GCF of patients with 
periodontitis and the effects of Aβ peptides against common oral pathogens. GCF 
samples were collected from patients with periodontitis (n = 15) and 
periodontally healthy people (n = 10). The antimicrobial effects of Aβ peptides 
were evaluated on four common oral pathogenic strains using an MTT assay, 
crystal violet staining, fluorescence microscope, and transmission electron 
microscope. The protein levels of Aβ40 and Aβ42 were upregulated in the GCF of 
periodontitis group compared with the healthy group. Both Aβ40 and Aβ42 
exhibited antimicrobial effects on Porphyromonas gingivalis, Aggregatibacter 
actinomycetemcomitans, and Lactobacillus acidophilus in both planktonic and 
biofilm conditions. Further, only Aβ40 showed an antimicrobial effect on the 
Fusobacterium nucleatum. The results of this study demonstrate that Aβ peptides 
in GCF may be a relevant indicator of periodontitis status. Besides, the 
antimicrobial peptides derived from Aβ peptides have great potential in 
periodontal therapy.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/omi.12488
PMID: 39668581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Clin Proteomics. 2024 Dec 12;21(1):65. doi: 10.1186/s12014-024-09517-1.

CSF levels of brain-derived proteins correlate with brain ventricular volume in 
cognitively healthy 70-year-olds.

Bergström S(1), Mravinacová S(1), Lindberg O(2), Zettergren A(3), Westman E(2), 
Wahlund LO(2), Blennow K(4)(5), Zetterberg H(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Kern S(3)(10), 
Skoog I(#)(3)(10), Månberg A(#)(11).

Author information:
(1)Division of Affinity Proteomics, Department of Protein Science, KTH Royal 
Institute of Technology, SciLifeLab, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Center for 
Alzheimer Research, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(3)Neuropsychiatric Epidemiology Unit, Department of Psychiatry and 
Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Centre for Ageing and Health (AGECAP), University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(7)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin, 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(10)Region Västra Götaland, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Neuropsychiatry, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(11)Division of Affinity Proteomics, Department of Protein Science, KTH Royal 
Institute of Technology, SciLifeLab, Stockholm, Sweden. 
anna.manberg@scilifelab.se.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The effect of varying brain ventricular volume on the cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) proteome has been discussed as possible confounding factors in 
comparative protein level analyses. However, the relationship between CSF volume 
and protein levels remains largely unexplored. Moreover, the few existing 
studies provide conflicting findings, indicating the need for further research.
METHODS: Here, we explored the association between levels of 88 pre-selected CSF 
proteins and ventricular volume derived from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
measurements in 157 cognitively healthy 70-year-olds from the H70 Gothenburg 
Birth Cohort Studies, including individuals with and without pathological levels 
of Alzheimer's disease (AD) CSF markers (n = 123 and 34, respectively). Both 
left and right lateral, the inferior horn as well as the third and the fourth 
ventricular volumes were measured. Different antibody-based methods were 
employed for the protein measurements, with most being analyzed using a 
multiplex bead-based microarray technology. Furthermore, the associations 
between the protein levels and cortical thickness, fractional anisotropy, and 
mean diffusivity were assessed.
RESULTS: CSF levels of many brain-derived proteins correlated with ventricular 
volumes in A-T- individuals, with lower levels in individuals with larger 
ventricles. The strongest negative correlations with total ventricular volume 
were observed for neurocan (NCAN) and neurosecretory protein VGF (rho = -0.34 
for both). Significant negative correlations were observed also for amyloid beta 
(Ab) 38, Ab40, total tau (t-tau), and phosphorylated tau (p-tau), with 
correlation ranging between - 0.34 and - 0.28, while no association was observed 
between ventricular volumes and Ab42 or neurofilament light chain (NfL). 
Proteins with negative correlations to ventricular volumes further demonstrated 
negative correlations to mean diffusivity and positive correlation to fractional 
anisotropy. However, only weak or no correlations were observed between the CSF 
protein levels and cortical thickness. A + T + individuals demonstrated higher 
CSF protein levels compared to A-T- individuals with the most significant 
differences observed for neurogranin (NRGN) and synuclein beta (SNCB).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that the levels of many brain-derived proteins 
in CSF may be subjected to dilution effects depending on the size of the brain 
ventricles in healthy individuals without AD pathology. This phenomenon could 
potentially contribute to the inter-individual variations observed in CSF 
proteomic studies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12014-024-09517-1
PMCID: PMC11636040
PMID: 39668376

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of 
Helsinki and was approved by the Regional Ethics Review Board in Gothenburg 
(Approval Numbers: 869 − 13, 006–14, and T703-14). All participant and/or their 
close relatives gave written informed consent to participate in the study. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: HZ has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work). SK has served at scientific advisory 
boards, speaker and / or as consultant for Roche, Geras Solutions, Optoceutics, 
Biogen and Bioarctic.


37. Curr Top Behav Neurosci. 2025;69:229-242. doi: 10.1007/7854_2024_522.

Achieving Inclusion in Pharmacological Clinical Trials for Alzheimer's Disease.

Molina-Henry D(1), Raman R(2).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, University of Southern 
California, San Diego, CA, USA.
(2)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, University of Southern 
California, San Diego, CA, USA. remar@usc.edu.

Participant recruitment and retention into randomized controlled trials (RCTs) 
is a growing and evolving science. It varies dramatically by discipline given 
the important and key choices that must be made based on the unique trial design 
considerations. In the field of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) therapeutics, 
recruitment goals, approaches, and strategies vary based on the disease stage of 
the target population which can range from asymptomatic adults with biomarker 
evidence of the disease to end-stage symptom management. This chapter discusses 
existing barriers and provides recommendations to achieve inclusive and timely 
recruitment in multi-center AD trials. It proposes an evidence-based recruitment 
framework anchored on culturally cognizant and participant focused study level 
and study site level efforts.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/7854_2024_522
PMID: 39668311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Pathology. 2025 Mar;57(2):191-195. doi: 10.1016/j.pathol.2024.11.001. Epub
2024  Nov 20.

Neuropathology meets chemical and genetic pathology head-on: a personal 
perspective.

Masters CL(1).

Author information:
(1)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Vic, Australia. Electronic address: 
c.masters@unimelb.edu.au.

Medical science has made revolutionary discoveries around the nosology and 
aetiology of the neurodegenerative diseases. Dementia is the second leading 
cause of death in Australia. My colleagues and I are now looking at therapeutics 
which potentially can delay or prevent the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Advances in diagnosis allow detection of preclinical AD. Neuropathologists 
working closely with chemical and genetic pathologists have a major role to play 
in pushing diagnostics and therapeutics to the forefront of clinical management 
of these diseases.

Copyright © 2024 Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pathol.2024.11.001
PMID: 39668075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Disabil Health J. 2025 Apr;18(2):101766. doi: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2024.101766.
Epub  2024 Dec 6.

The adaptation of the GameSquad exergaming intervention for young adults with 
Down syndrome: A pilot feasibility study.

Suire K(1), Helsel BC(2), Bowling A(3), Staiano AE(4), Sherman JR(5), Rice A(6), 
Ptomey LT(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology, Berry College, 2277 Martha Berry Hwy NW Mount 
Berry, GA, 30149, USA. Electronic address: ksuire@berry.edu.
(2)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Department of 
Neurology, University of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow Blvd, Kansas City, 
KS, 66160, USA. Electronic address: bhelsel@kumc.edu.
(3)School of Nursing and Health Sciences, Merrimack College, 315 Turnpike Street 
North Andover, MA, 01845, USA. Electronic address: bowlinga@merrimack.edu.
(4)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Louisiana State University, 6400 
Perkins Rd, Baton Rouge, LA, 70808, USA. Electronic address: 
amanda.staiano@pbrc.edu.
(5)Division of Physical Activity and Weight Management, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow Blvd, Kansas City, 
KS, 66160, USA. Electronic address: jsherman7@kumc.edu.
(6)Division of Physical Activity and Weight Management, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow Blvd, Kansas City, 
KS, 66160, USA. Electronic address: arice7@kumc.edu.
(7)Division of Physical Activity and Weight Management, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, 3901 Rainbow Blvd, Kansas City, 
KS, 66160, USA. Electronic address: lptomey@kumc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Exergames may be a feasible alternative to in-person exercise that 
is adaptable for adults with Down Syndrome (DS).
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to conduct a 12-week pilot trial to 
assess the feasibility of exergames for adults with DS.
METHODS: Adults with DS were provided Ring Fit Adventure™ which uses a 
resistance ring and body weight to perform cardiovascular and strength 
exercises. Participants were instructed to play Ring Fit Adventure™ for 
120 min/week and attend 30-min weekly virtual coaching sessions where a health 
educator encouraged gameplay via goal setting, helped troubleshoot technological 
issues, and collected self-reported minutes of gameplay. Intervention outcomes 
included attendance, adherence to weekly gameplay goals, retention, safety, and 
exercise intensity captured via heart rate and indirect calorimetry.
RESULTS: Twenty adults with DS (age 23.5 years, 89 % non-Hispanic white, 61 % 
female) enrolled and 19 participants completed the trial. Participants attended 
93 % of coaching sessions and 90 % met the weekly gameplay goals. The average 
gameplay duration was 39 min/session and 123 min/week at 67.3 % of the 
participants' estimated maximum heart rate. Both the average heart rate during 
the intervention and metabolic equivalents (3.4 ± 1.0) during the indirect 
calorimetry assessment were suggestive of moderate intensity exercise.
CONCLUSIONS: Attendance and adherence to the weekly gameplay goal were high 
among adults with DS who were able to reach and sustain moderate intensity 
during the exergame sessions. Exergaming represents a home-based option for 
accumulating minutes of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity that is feasible 
for and acceptable to adults with DS.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2024.101766
PMCID: PMC11884987
PMID: 39668064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no conflicts of interest.


40. Complement Ther Med. 2025 Mar;88:103118. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2024.103118.
Epub  2024 Dec 10.

Discovery of the microbiota-gut-brain axis mechanisms of acupuncture for 
amnestic mild cognitive impairment based on multi-omics analyses: A pilot study.

Yin ZH(1), Bao QN(2), Li YQ(3), Liu YW(4), Wang ZQ(5), Ye F(6), He X(7), Zhang 
XY(8), Zhong WQ(9), Wu KX(10), Yao J(11), Chen ZW(12), Zhao L(13), Liang FR(14).

Author information:
(1)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China; Sichuan Provincial Acupuncture Clinical Medicine 
Research Center, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: yinzihan@stu.cdutcm.edu.cn.
(2)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China; Sichuan Provincial Acupuncture Clinical Medicine 
Research Center, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: baoqn1111@163.com.
(3)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: liyaqin@stu.cdutcm.edu.cn.
(4)The West China Hospital, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: 
hxliuyiwei@163.com.
(5)The Fourth People's Hospital of Chengdu, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: 
545714471@qq.com.
(6)The Sichuan Province People's Hospital, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: 
yfxh00@163.com.
(7)The Rehabilitation Hospital of Sichuan Province, Chengdu, China. Electronic 
address: 307229719@qq.com.
(8)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China; Sichuan Provincial Acupuncture Clinical Medicine 
Research Center, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: 
zhangxinyue2@stu.cdutcm.edu.cn.
(9)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China; Sichuan Provincial Acupuncture Clinical Medicine 
Research Center, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: 1244031368@qq.com.
(10)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China; Sichuan Provincial Acupuncture Clinical Medicine 
Research Center, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: wukexin@stu.cdutcm.edu.cn.
(11)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China; Sichuan Provincial Acupuncture Clinical Medicine 
Research Center, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: 1308495494@qq.com.
(12)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China; Sichuan Provincial Acupuncture Clinical Medicine 
Research Center, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: czw13550637144@126.com.
(13)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China; Sichuan Provincial Acupuncture Clinical Medicine 
Research Center, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: zhaoling@cdutcm.edu.cn.
(14)School of Acu-Mox and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China; Sichuan Provincial Acupuncture Clinical Medicine 
Research Center, Chengdu, China. Electronic address: acuresearch@126.com.

OBJECTIVES: Acupuncture is a promising therapy for amnestic mild cognitive 
impairment (aMCI). Growing evidence suggest that alterations in the 
microbiota-gut-brain (MGB) axis contribute to the development and progression of 
aMCI. However, little is known about whether and how acupuncture change the MGB 
axis of aMCI individuals.
METHODS: This was a randomized, controlled, clinical trial. Forty patients with 
aMCI were randomly allocated to either the acupuncture group or the waitlist 
group. The primary outcome was the change in the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment 
Scale-Cognitive Scale (ADAS-Cog) score. In addition, multi-omics was performed 
to detect changes in brain function, gut microbiota, and serum metabolites. 
Generalized estimating equations were used to estimate the outcomes, and 
correlational analyses were performed to explore the relationships between the 
clinical and multi-omics data.
RESULTS: Compared to a mean baseline to week 12 change of -3.94 in the 
acupuncture group, the mean change in the waitlist group was 1.72 (net 
difference, -5.66 [95 % CI, -6.98 to -4.35]). Compared to the waitlist group, 
acupuncture's MGB axis modulatory effect exhibited altered the regional 
homogeneity values of Frontal_Med_Orb_L, Cingulum_Mid_L, and 
Frontal_Sup_Medial_L, relative abundance of gut Ruminococcus_sp_AF43_11 and 
s_Eubacterium_coprostanoligenes, and levels of serum 
(11E,15Z)-9,10,13-trihydroxyoctadeca-11,15-dienoic acid, dipropylene glycol 
dimethyl ether, N6-Me-dA, and DPK, which correlated with changes in ADAS-Cog 
scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data imply that acupuncture ameliorates overall cognitive 
function, along with changes in brain activity, gut microbiota, and serum 
metabolites, providing preliminary evidence of the mechanisms acting through the 
MGB axis underlying the effects of acupuncture on aMCI.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2024.103118
PMID: 39667708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


41. Behav Brain Res. 2025 Mar 5;480:115385. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2024.115385. Epub 
2024 Dec 10.

Mitochondrial protective properties exerted by JM-20 in a dementia model induced 
by intracerebroventricular administration of streptozotocin in mice.

Wong-Guerra M(1), Montano-Peguero Y(2), Hernández-Enseñat D(3), Ramírez-Sánchez 
J(3), Mondelo-Rodríguez A(3), Padrón-Yaquis AS(3), García-Alfonso E(3), 
Fonseca-Fonseca LA(4), Nuñez-Figueredo Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología Experimental, Centro de Investigación y 
Desarrollo de Medicamentos, La Habana 10600, Cuba; Departamento de Biología, 
Facultad de Química y Biología, Universidad de Santiago de Chile, USACH, 
Alameda, Santiago 3363, Chile.
(2)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología Experimental, Centro de Investigación y 
Desarrollo de Medicamentos, La Habana 10600, Cuba; Facultad de Ciencias Químicas 
y Farmacéuticas, Advanced Center for Chronic Diseases (ACCDiS), Universidad de 
Chile, Santos Dumont 964, Casilla 233, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología Experimental, Centro de Investigación y 
Desarrollo de Medicamentos, La Habana 10600, Cuba.
(4)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología Experimental, Centro de Investigación y 
Desarrollo de Medicamentos, La Habana 10600, Cuba. Electronic address: 
luis.fonseca@cidem.cu.
(5)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología Experimental, Centro de Investigación y 
Desarrollo de Medicamentos, La Habana 10600, Cuba. Electronic address: 
yanier.nunez@cidem.cu.

BACKGROUND: Mitochondrial dysfunction and brain insulin resistance have been 
related to Alzheimer's disease (AD) development. Streptozotocin (STZ) is 
commonly employed to disrupt glucose and insulin metabolism, even causing 
cognitive impairment in animal models. We aimed at studying the protective 
effect of JM-20 on STZ-induced memory impairment and brain mitochondrial 
dysfunction.
METHODS: Male C57Bl6 mice received 3 mg/kg STZ intracerebroventricularly and 
JM-20 (0.25 mg/kg or 4 mg/kg) was administered daily by gastric gavage. Episodic 
memory was evaluated through Y-maze, novel object recognition, and Morris water 
maze. Endogenous antioxidant systems (catalase and superoxide dismutase 
activities), total sulfhydryl groups, malondialdehyde levels were also studied 
and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity were assessed in the prefrontal cortex 
(PC) and hippocampus (HO).
RESULTS: demonstrated that STZ injection impaired recognition and spatial 
learning and memory and oxygen flow in all mitochondrial respiration states. 
Additionally, STZ increased AChE, superoxide dismutase, and catalase activity in 
the PC but not in HO tissue. A neuroprotective effect of JM-20 on STZ-induced 
memory decline, and mitochondrial dysfunction was observed, suggesting an 
important causal interaction. In addition, JM-20 was able to decreased AChE 
enzyme hyperactivity, rescued endogenous antioxidant systems, and prevented 
histologically observed neuronal damage CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that 
JM-20 protects against STZ-induced impairment in brain bioenergetic metabolism 
and memory, confirming its potential as a candidate for treating 
neurodegenerative disorders associated with mitochondrial dysfunction like AD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2024.115385
PMID: 39667646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


42. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2025 Feb;247:173943. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2024.173943.
 Epub 2024 Dec 10.

Discovery of novel fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitors as 
anti-alzheimer agents via in-silico-based drug design, virtual screening, 
molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, DFT, and non-clinical studies.

Jain S(1), Singh R(2), Paliwal T(3), Verma K(4), Dwivedi J(5), Paliwal S(6), 
Sharma S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali, India; Department 
of Pharmacy, School of Chemical Sciences and Pharmacy, Central University of 
Rajasthan, Kishangarh, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali, India; Department 
of Bioscience & Biotechnology, Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali, Rajasthan, 
India.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali, India; Department 
of Internal Medicine, Division of Cardiology, LSU Health Sciences Center 
Shreveport, Louisiana, USA.
(5)Department of Chemistry, Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali, India.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali, India. Electronic 
address: paliwalsarvesh@yahoo.com.
(7)Department of Pharmacy, Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali, India. Electronic 
address: sswapnil@banasthali.in.

AIM: To identify some novel fatty acid hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitors that may 
contribute to the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: In-silico pharmacophore modelling including ligand-based pharmacophore 
modelling, virtual screening, molecular docking, molecular dynamics modelling, 
density functional theory and in-silico pharmacokinetics and toxicological 
studies were employed for the retrieving of novel FAAH inhibitors. Further, 
these compounds were evaluated for FAAH inhibitory activity using an in vitro 
enzymatic assay, and later, an in vivo streptozotocin (STZ)-induced AD model was 
examined in mice.
RESULTS: Using an in-silico pharmacophore modelling process with molecular 
docking, molecular dynamic modelling, density functional theory and in-silico 
pharmacokinetics and toxicological analysis, three compounds (NCI1697, 
NCI1001and NCI1041) were retrieved. The in vitro FAAH activity assay kit 
(Fluorometric) was employed to examine the FAAH inhibitory activity of 
identified compounds. Further, in in-vivo studies, treatment with these 
compounds at 2.5 and 5 mg/kg doses orally for 10 days restored the STZ-induced 
memory deficits in mice, as evident in the radial arm and Morris's water maze 
assays. Also, these compounds ameliorated oxidative stress profiles and 
neuroinflammatory biomarkers in mice. Interestingly, STZ-induced disturbance in 
gene expressions related to AD pathophysiology including endocannabinoid 
signalling neuroinflammation and neuroimmune signalling were also restored after 
the treatment. Histopathological findings also confirmed the improvement in the 
organization of cells and reduction in vacuolation in mice hippocampal tissue in 
treated mice.
CONCLUSION: The in-silico, in vitro and in-vivo findings collectively indicated 
that these compounds have impressive FAAH inhibitory activity and may be 
developed as therapeutic agents in the management of AD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2024.173943
PMID: 39667582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


43. Lancet. 2025 Dec 21;404(10471):2543-2583. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(24)01821-X.
 Epub 2024 Dec 9.

Global, regional, and national progress towards the 2030 global nutrition 
targets and forecasts to 2050: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2021.

Global Nutrition Target Collaborators.

Collaborators: Arndt MB, Abate YH, Abbasi-Kangevari M, Abd ElHafeez S, 
Abdelmasseh M, Abd-Elsalam S, Abdulah DM, Abdulkader RS, Abidi H, Abiodun O, 
Aboagye RG, Abolhassani H, Abtew YD, Abu-Gharbieh E, Abu-Rmeileh NM, Acuna JM, 
Adamu K, Adane DE, Addo IY, Adeyinka DA, Adnani QES, Afolabi AA, Afrashteh F, 
Afzal S, Agodi A, Ahinkorah BO, Ahmad A, Ahmad S, Ahmad T, Ahmadi A, Ahmed A, 
Ahmed LAA, Ajami M, Aji B, Akbarialiabad H, Akonde M, Al Hamad H, Al Thaher Y, 
Al-Aly Z, Alhabib KF, Alhassan RK, Ali BA, Ali SS, Alimohamadi Y, Aljunid SM, 
Al-Mekhlafi HM, Almustanyir S, Alomari MA, Al-Tammemi AB, Altirkawi KA, 
Alvis-Guzman N, Alvis-Zakzuk NJ, Ameyaw EK, Amin TT, Amiri S, Amu H, Amugsi DA, 
Anagaw TFF, Ancuceanu R, Angappan D, Ansari-Moghaddam A, Antriyandarti E, Anvari 
D, Anyasodor AE, Arabloo J, Aravkin AY, Ariffin H, Aripov T, Arkew M, Armocida 
B, Arumugam A, Aryastami NK, Asaad M, Asemi Z, Asemu MT, Asghari-Jafarabadi M, 
Astell-Burt T, Athari SS, Atomsa GH, Atorkey P, Atout MMW, Aujayeb A, Awoke MA, 
Azadnajafabad S, Azevedo RMS, B DB, Badiye AD, Baghcheghi N, Bagheri N, 
Bagherieh S, Baig AA, Baker JL, Balasubramanian M, Baltatu OC, Banach M, Banik 
PC, Barchitta M, Bärnighausen TW, Barr RD, Barrow A, Barua L, Bashiri A, 
Baskaran P, Basu S, Bekele A, Belay SA, Belgaumi UI, Bell SL, Belo L, Bennett 
DA, Bensenor IM, Beressa G, Bermudez ANC, Beyene HB, Bhagavathula AS, Bhardwaj 
N, Bhardwaj P, Bhaskar S, Bhattacharjee NV, Bhutta ZA, Bitaraf S, Bodolica V, 
Bonakdar Hashemi M, Braithwaite D, Butt MH, Butt ZA, Calina D, Cámera LA, Campos 
LA, Cao C, Cárdenas R, Carvalho M, Castañeda-Orjuela CA, Catapano AL, Cattaruzza 
MS, Cembranel F, Cerin E, Chadwick J, Chalek J, Chandrasekar EK, Charan J, 
Chattu VK, Chauhan K, Chien JH, Chitheer A, Choudhari SG, Chowdhury EK, Chu DT, 
Chukwu IS, Chung SC, Claro RM, Columbus A, Cortese S, Cruz-Martins N, Dabo B, 
Dadras O, Dai X, D'Amico E, Dandona L, Dandona R, Darban I, Darmstadt GL, 
Darwesh AM, Darwish AH, Das JK, Das S, Davletov K, De la Hoz FP, Debele AT, 
Demeke D, Demissie S, Denova-Gutiérrez E, Desai HD, Desta AA, Dharmaratne SD, 
Dhimal M, Dias da Silva D, Diaz D, Diress M, Djalalinia S, Doaei S, Dongarwar D, 
Dsouza HL, Edalati S, Edinur HA, Ekholuenetale M, Ekundayo TC, Elbarazi I, 
Elgendy IY, Elhadi M, Elmeligy OAA, Eshetu HB, Espinosa-Montero J, Esubalew H, 
Etaee F, Etafa W, Fagbamigbe AF, Fakhradiyev IR, Falzone L, Farinha CSES, Farmer 
S, Fasanmi AO, Fatehizadeh A, Feigin VL, Feizkhah A, Feng X, Ferrara P, Fetensa 
G, Fischer F, Fitzgerald R, Flood D, Foigt NA, Folayan MO, Fowobaje KR, Franklin 
RC, Fukumoto T, Gadanya MA, Gaidhane AM, Gaihre S, Gakidou E, Galali Y, Galehdar 
N, Gardner WM, Garg P, Gebremeskel TG, Gerema U, Getacher L, Getachew ME, Getawa 
S, Ghaffari K, Ghamari SH, Ghasemi Nour M, Ghassemi F, Ghith N, Gholamalizadeh 
M, Gholami A, Gholamrezanezhad A, Ghozy S, Gill PS, Gill TK, Glasbey JC, 
Golechha M, Goleij P, Golinelli D, Goudarzi H, Grivna M, Guadie HA, Gubari MIM, 
Gudayu TW, Guha A, Gunawardane DA, Gupta AK, Gupta B, Gupta R, Gupta S, Gupta 
VB, Gupta VK, Hagins H, Haj-Mirzaian A, Handal AJ, Hanif A, Hankey GJ, Harapan 
H, Hargono A, Haro JM, Hasaballah AI, Hasan MM, Hasani H, Hashi A, Hassanipour 
S, Havmoeller RJ, Hay SI, Hayat K, He J, Heidari-Foroozan M, Herteliu C, Hessami 
K, Heyi DZ, Hezam K, Hiraike Y, Holla R, Hoogar P, Hossain SJ, Hosseinzadeh M, 
Hostiuc M, Hostiuc S, Hoveidamanesh S, Huang J, Humphrey KM, Hussain S, Hussien 
FM, Hwang BF, Iacoviello L, Iftikhar PM, Ilesanmi OS, Ilic IM, Ilic MD, Immurana 
M, Inbaraj LR, Iravanpour F, Islam SMS, Islami F, Ismail NE, Iso H, Isola G, 
Iwagami M, Iwu CD, J LM, Jacob L, Jahrami H, Jakovljevic M, Jamshidi E, Janodia 
MD, Jayanna K, Jayapal SK, Jayaram S, Jebai R, Jema AT, Jeswani BM, Jonas JB, 
Joseph A, Joseph N, Joshua CE, Jozwiak JJ, Jürisson M, Kaambwa B, Kabir A, Kabir 
Z, Kadashetti V, Kamal VK, Kamble BD, Kandel H, Kapoor N, Karaye IM, Katoto PD, 
Kauppila JH, Kaur H, Kayode GA, Kebede WM, Kebira JY, Keflie TS, Kerr JA, 
Keykhaei M, Khader YS, Khajuria H, Khalid N, Khammarnia M, Khan MN, Khan MA, 
Khan T, Khan YH, Khanali J, Khanmohammadi S, Khatab K, Khatatbeh MM, Khateri S, 
Khatib MN, Khayat Kashani HR, Khubchandani J, Kifle ZD, Kim GR, Kimokoti RW, 
Kisa A, Kisa S, Kompani F, Kondlahalli SKM, Koohestani HR, Korzh O, Koulmane 
Laxminarayana SL, Koyanagi A, Krishan K, Krishnamoorthy V, Kuate Defo B, Kucuk 
Bicer B, Kuddus M, Kumar GA, Kumar M, Kumar N, Kurmanova A, Kurmi OP, Kusuma D, 
La Vecchia C, Lacey B, Lal DK, Larsson AO, Latief K, Ledda C, Lee PH, Lee SW, 
Lee WC, Lee YH, Lenzi J, Li MC, Li W, Ligade VS, Lim SS, Lindstedt PA, Lo CH, Lo 
J, Lodha R, Loreche AM, Lorenzovici L, Lorkowski S, Madadizadeh F, 
Madureira-Carvalho ÁM, Mahajan PB, Makris KC, Malakan Rad E, Malik AA, Mallhi 
TH, Malta DC, Manguerra H, Marjani A, Martini S, Martorell M, Masrie A, Mathews 
E, Maugeri A, Mazaheri M, Mediratta RP, Mehndiratta MM, Melaku YA, Mendoza W, 
Menezes RG, Mensah GA, Mentis AA, Meretoja TJ, Mestrovic T, Miazgowski T, Miller 
TR, Mini GK, Mirghafourvand M, Mirica A, Mirrakhimov EM, Mirza M, Misra S, 
Mithra P, Mohammad KA, Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Mohammed S, Mohseni M, Mokdad 
AH, Monasta L, Moni MA, Moradi M, Moradi Y, Morrison SD, Mougin V, Mubarik S, 
Mueller UO, Mulita F, Munblit D, Murillo-Zamora E, Murray CJL, Mustafa G, 
Nagarajan AJ, Nangia V, Narasimha Swamy S, Natto ZS, Naveed M, Nayak BP, 
Nejadghaderi SA, Nguefack-Tsague G, Ngunjiri JW, Nguyen PT, Nguyen QP, Niazi RK, 
Nnaji CA, Noor NM, Noubiap JJ, Nri-Ezedi CA, Nurrika D, Nwatah VE, Oancea B, 
Obamiro KO, Oghenetega OB, Ogunsakin RE, Okati-Aliabad H, Okekunle AP, Okello 
DM, Okonji OC, Olagunju AT, Olana DD, Oliveira GMM, Olusanya BO, Olusanya JO, 
Ong SK, Ortega-Altamirano DV, Ortiz A, Ostojic SM, Otoiu A, Oumer A, 
Padron-Monedero A, Padubidri JR, Pana A, Panda-Jonas S, Pandey A, Pandi-Perumal 
SR, Papadopoulou P, Pardhan S, Pasovic M, Patel J, Pathan AR, Paudel D, Pawar S, 
Pepito VCF, Pereira G, Pereira M, Perico N, Perna S, Petcu IR, Petermann-Rocha 
FE, Piracha ZZ, Plakkal N, Pourtaheri N, Radfar A, Radhakrishnan V, Raggi C, 
Raghav P, Rahim F, Rahimi-Movaghar V, Rahman A, Rahman MM, Rahman MO, Rahman M, 
Rahman MA, Rahmani AM, Rahmanian V, Rahmawaty S, Rai RK, Raimondo I, Rajaa S, 
Rajput P, Ram P, Ramasamy SK, Ramazanu S, Rao CR, Rao IR, Rao SJ, Rasali DP, 
Rashid AM, Rashidi MM, Ratan ZA, Rawaf S, Rawal L, Redwan EMMM, Remuzzi G, 
Rengasamy KR, Renzaho AMN, Rezaee M, Rezaei N, Rezaeian M, Riad A, Rickard J, 
Rodriguez A, Rodriguez JAB, Roever L, Rohloff P, Roy B, Rwegerera GM, S N C, 
Saad AMA, Saber-Ayad MM, Sabour S, Sachdeva Dhingra M, Saddik BA, Sadeghi E, 
Sadeghi M, Sadeghian S, Saeed U, Saeedi Moghaddam S, Safi SZ, Saheb 
Sharif-Askari F, Sahebkar A, Sahoo H, Sahoo SS, Sajid MR, Salem MR, Samy AM, 
Sanabria J, Sanjeev RK, Sankararaman S, Santos IS, Santric-Milicevic MM, 
Saraswathy SYI, Sargazi S, Sarikhani Y, Satpathy M, Sawhney M, Saya GK, Sayeed 
A, Scarmeas N, Schlaich MP, Schneider RD, Schutte AE, Senthilkumaran S, Sepanlou 
SG, Serban D, Seylani A, Shafie M, Shah PA, Shahbandi A, Shaikh MA, Shama ATT, 
Shams-Beyranvand M, Shanawaz M, Sharew MM, Shetty PH, Shiri R, Shivarov V, 
Shorofi SA, Shuval K, Sibhat MM, Silva LMLR, Singh JA, Singh NP, Singh P, Singh 
S, Skryabina AA, Smith AE, Solomon Y, Song Y, Sorensen RJD, Stanaway JD, Sufiyan 
MB, Suleman M, Sun J, Sunuwar DR, Szeto MD, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Tabatabaeizadeh 
SA, Tabatabai S, Taheri Soodejani M, Tamuzi JLJ, Tan KK, Tarigan IU, Tariku Z, 
Tariqujjaman M, Tarkang EE, Tat NY, Taye BT, Taylor HJ, Tefera YM, 
Tehrani-Banihashemi A, Temsah MH, Teramoto M, Thangaraju P, Thapar R, 
Thiyagarajan A, Thrift AG, Tichopad A, Ticoalu JHV, Tillawi T, Tiruye TY, 
Tonelli M, Topor-Madry R, Touvier M, Tovani-Palone MR, Tran MTN, Ullah S, 
Undurraga EA, Unnikrishnan B, Ushula TW, Vahabi SM, Vakilian A, Valadan Tahbaz 
S, Valizadeh R, Van den Eynde J, Varthya SB, Vasankari TJ, Venketasubramanian N, 
Verma M, Veroux M, Vervoort D, Vlassov V, Vollset SE, Vukovic R, Waheed Y, Wang 
C, Wang F, Wassie MM, Weerakoon KG, Wei MY, Werdecker A, Wickramasinghe ND, 
Wolde AA, Wubetie GA, Wulandari RD, Xu R, Xu S, Xu X, Yadav L, Yamagishi K, Yang 
L, Yano Y, Yaya S, Yazdanpanah F, Yehualashet SS, Yiğit A, Yiğit V, Yon DK, Yu 
C, Yuan CW, Zamagni G, Zaman SB, Zanghì A, Zangiabadian M, Zare I, Zastrozhin M, 
Zigler B, Zoladl M, Zou Z, Kassebaum NJ, Reiner RC Jr.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2025 Dec 21;404(10471):2488-2489. doi: 
10.1016/S0140-6736(24)02180-9.

BACKGROUND: The six global nutrition targets (GNTs) related to low birthweight, 
exclusive breastfeeding, child growth (ie, wasting, stunting, and overweight), 
and anaemia among females of reproductive age were chosen by the World Health 
Assembly in 2012 as key indicators of maternal and child health, but there has 
yet to be a comprehensive report on progress for the period 2012 to 2021. We 
aimed to evaluate levels, trends, and observed-to-expected progress in 
prevalence and attributable burden from 2012 to 2021, with prevalence 
projections to 2050, in 204 countries and territories.
METHODS: The prevalence and attributable burden of each target indicator were 
estimated by age group, sex, and year in 204 countries and territories from 2012 
to 2021 in the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 
2021, the most comprehensive assessment of causes of death, disability, and risk 
factors to date. Country-specific relative performance to date was evaluated 
with a Bayesian meta-regression model that compares prevalence to expected 
values based on Socio-demographic Index (SDI), a composite indicator of societal 
development status. Target progress was forecasted from 2021 up to 2050 by 
modelling past trends with meta-regression using a combination of key quantities 
and then extrapolating future projections of those quantities.
FINDINGS: In 2021, a few countries had already met some of the GNTs: five for 
exclusive breastfeeding, four for stunting, 96 for child wasting, and three for 
child overweight, and none met the target for low birthweight or anaemia in 
females of reproductive age. Since 2012, the annualised rates of change (ARC) in 
the prevalence of child overweight increased in 201 countries and territories 
and ARC in the prevalence of anaemia in females of reproductive age decreased 
considerably in 26 countries. Between 2012 and 2021, SDI was strongly associated 
with indicator prevalence, apart from exclusive breastfeeding (|r-|=0·46-0·86). 
Many countries in sub-Saharan Africa had a decrease in the prevalence of 
multiple indicators that was more rapid than expected on the basis of SDI (the 
differences between observed and expected ARCs for child stunting and wasting 
were -0·5% and -1·3%, respectively). The ARC in the attributable burden of low 
birthweight, child stunting, and child wasting decreased faster than the ARC of 
the prevalence for each in most low-income and middle-income countries. In 2030, 
we project that 94 countries will meet one of the six targets, 21 countries will 
meet two targets, and 89 countries will not meet any targets. We project that 
seven countries will meet the target for exclusive breastfeeding, 28 for child 
stunting, and 101 for child wasting, and no countries will meet the targets for 
low birthweight, child overweight, and anaemia. In 2050, we project that seven 
additional countries will meet the target for exclusive breastfeeding, five for 
low birthweight, 96 for child stunting, nine for child wasting, and one for 
child overweight, and no countries are projected to meet the anaemia target.
INTERPRETATION: Based on current levels and past trends, few GNTs will be met by 
2030. Major reductions in attributable burden for exclusive breastfeeding and 
anthropometric indicators should be recognised as huge scientific and policy 
successes, but the comparative lack of progress in reducing the prevalence of 
each, along with stagnant anaemia in women of reproductive age and widespread 
increases in child overweight, suggests a tenuous status quo. Continued 
investment in preventive and treatment efforts for acute childhood illness is 
crucial to prevent backsliding. Parallel development of effective treatments, 
along with commitment to multisectoral, long-term policies to address the 
determinants and causes of suboptimal nutrition, are sorely needed to gain 
ground.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(24)01821-X
PMCID: PMC11703702
PMID: 39667386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests S Afzal reports support 
from King Edward Medical University for study material, research articles, valid 
data sources and authentic real time information for the present manuscript. S 
Afzal reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from King Edward Medical 
University and collaborative partners including University of Johns Hopkins, 
University of California, University of Massachusetts, King Edward Medical 
College Alumni Association of North America (KEMCAANA), and King Edward Medical 
College Alumni Association UK (KEMCA UK) for international scientific 
conferences, webinars, and meetings; support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from King Edward Medical University; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with National Bioethics Committee Pakistan, 
King Edward Medical University Ethical Review Board, Ethical Review Board Fatima 
Jinnah Medical University and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital as a member of the 
Technical Working Group on Infectious Diseases; leadership or fiduciary roles in 
board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid, with Pakistan 
Association of Medical Editors, Faculty of Public Health Royal Colleges UK 
(FFPH) as a fellow, Society of Prevention, Advocacy and Research, King Edward 
Medical University (SPARK), and Pakistan Society of Infectious Diseases as a 
member; other financial or non-financial interests as Dean of Public Health and 
Preventive Medicine at King Edward Medical University, Chief Editor of Annals of 
King Edward Medical University since 2014, Director of Quality Enhancement Cell 
at King Edward Medical University, Fellow of Faculty of Public Health United 
Kingdom, Advisory Board Member and Chair of Scientific Session KEMCA UK, 
Chairperson of International Scientific Conference KEMCAANA, Member of Research 
and Publications Higher Education Commission (HEC) Pakistan, Member of Research 
and Journals Committee Pakistan Medical and Dental Council, Pakistan Member of 
National Bioethics Committee at Punjab Level, Member of Corona Experts Advisory 
Group, Member of Technical Working Group on Infectious Diseases, Member of 
Dengue Experts Advisory Group, and Chair of Punjab Residency Program Research 
Committee; all outside the submitted work. R Ancuceanu reports consulting fees 
from AbbVie; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from AbbVie, Laropharm, Reckitt, Merck 
Romania; supports for attending meetings and/or travel from Merck Romania; all 
outside the submitted work. T Bärnighausen reports grants or contracts paid to 
their institution from the US National Institutes of Health (NIH), Alexander von 
Humboldt Foundation, German National Research Foundation (DFG), European Union, 
German Ministry of Education and Research, German Ministry of the Environment, 
Wellcome, KfW; honoraria as Editor-in-Chief of PLoS Medicine; participation on a 
Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board, unpaid, on two Scientific 
Advisory Boards for NIH-funded research projects in Africa on Climate Change and 
Health; stock or stock options in CHEERS, a subject matter expert focusing on 
approaches to measure climate change and health-related variables in population 
cohorts; all outside the submitted work. J Baker reports grants or contracts 
paid to their institution from World Cancer Research Fund, Novo Nordisk 
Foundation, Independent Research Fund Denmark; consulting fees to them and their 
institution from Novo Nordisk A/S; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events paid 
to their institution from Novo Nordisk A/S; leadership or fiduciary roles in 
board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, unpaid, with European Association 
for the Study of Obesity as Trustee; all outside the submitted work. O Baltatu 
reports grants or contracts from Alfaisal University; Anima Institute (AI) 
Research Professor Fellowship; and a National Council for Scientific and 
Technological Development Fellowship (CNPq, 304224/2022-7); leadership or 
fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid 
with VividiWise Analytics as Managing Partner, São José dos Campos Tech Park – 
CITS as Health and Biotech Advisory Board Member; all outside the submitted 
work. S L Bell reports grants or contracts paid to their institution from US 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), NIH, High Tide Foundation, Health Effects 
Institute, Yale Women Faculty Forum, Environmental Defense Fund, Wellcome Trust 
Foundation, Yale Climate Change and Health Center, Robert Wood Johnson 
Foundation, Hutchinson Postdoctoral Fellowship; consulting fees from Clinique, 
ToxiMap, SciQuest; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from Colorado School of 
Public Health, Duke University, University of Texas, Data4Justice, Korea 
University, Organization of Teratology Information Specialists, University of 
Pennsylvania, Boston University, IOP Publishing, NIH, Health Canada, EHS, 
PAC-10, UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), AXA Research Fund Fellowship, Harvard 
University, University of Montana, and SciQuest; support for attending meetings 
and/or travel from Colorado School of Public Health, University of Texas, Duke 
University, Boston University, University of Pennsylvania, Harvard University, 
American Journal of Public Health, Columbia University, CMAS Conference, and 
Nature Conference; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, 
or advocacy groups unpaid with Fifth National Climate Assessment, Lancet 
Countdown, Johns Hopkins EHE Advisory Board, Harvard external advisory committee 
for training grant, WHO Global Air Pollution and Health Technical Advisory 
group, National Academies Panels and Committees, and paid with US EPA Clean Air 
Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC); all outside the submitted work. S Bhaskar 
reports grants or contracts from Japan Society for the Promotion of Science 
(JSPS) and Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and 
Technology (MEXT) for a grant-in-aid for Scientific Research (KAKENHI) (P23712), 
and from JSPS and the Australian Academy of Science for a JSPS International 
Fellowship (P23712); leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee 
or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with Rotary District 9675, Sydney, Australia 
(District Chair, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion), Global Health & Migration Hub 
Community, Global Health Hub Germany, Berlin, Germany (Chair, Founding Member 
and Manager), PLoS One, BMC Neurology, Frontiers in Neurology, Frontiers in 
Stroke, Frontiers in Public Health, Journal of Aging Research, and BMC Medical 
Research Methodology (Editorial Board Member), College of Reviewers, Canadian 
Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), Government of Canada (Member), World 
Headache Society, Bengaluru, India (Director of Research), Cariplo Foundation, 
Milan, Italy (Expert Adviser/Reviewer), National Cerebral and Cardiovascular 
Center, Department of Neurology, Suita, Osaka, Japan (Visiting Director), and 
Cardiff University Biobank, Cardiff, UK (Member, Scientific Review Committee); 
all outside the submitted work. Z A Bhutta reports grants or contracts from 
Gates Ventures and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, outside the submitted work. 
M Carvalho reports support from Laboratório Associado para a Química Verde 
(LAQV/REQUIMTE), and University of Porto, Porto, Portugal Foundation for Science 
and Technology (FCT) Portuguese Ministry of Science, Technology, and Higher 
Education (MCTES) under the scope of the project UIDP/50006/2020 (DOI 
10.54499/UIDP/50006/2020), outside the submitted work. A L Catapano reports 
grants or contracts from Amryt Pharma, Menarini, Ultragenyx; consulting fees 
from Menarini - Menarini Ricerche, Sanofi; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Amarin Amgen Amryt Pharma, AstraZeneca, Daiichi Sankyo Esperion Ionis 
Pharmaceutical Medscaper, Menarini, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Peervoice, 
Pfizer, Recordati, Regeneron, Sandoz, Sanofi, The Corpus, Ultragenyx, and 
Viatris; all outside the submitted work. S Cortese reports grants or contracts 
from National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) UK, European 
Research Agency; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from Association for Child 
and Adolescent Mental Health (ACAMH), Medice, British Association of 
Psychopharmacology (BAP), and Canadian ADHD Resource Alliance (CADDRA); support 
for attending meetings and/or travel from Medice, BAP, and CADDRA; leadership or 
fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid 
with European ADHD Guidelines Group (EAGG) as Chair; all outside the submitted 
work. R C Franklin reports support for attending meetings and/or travel from 
ACTM – Tropical Medicine and Travel Medicine Conference 2022, 2023, ISTM – 
Travel Medicine Conference, Basel 2023; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, 
society, committee, or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with Kidsafe as 
President/Director, Farmsafe as Director, Auschem as Director, ISASH Governance 
Committee as PHAA Injury Prevention SIG Convenor, and ACTM as President Elect; 
all outside the submitted work. N Ghith reports grants or contracts from Novo 
Nordisk Foundation (NNF16OC0021856) paid to their institute, Technical 
University of Denmark, between 2019 and 2022; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
Danish Data Science Institute at the Technical University of Denmark, travel 
grant in 2023; support for attending meetings and/or travel from Danish Data 
Science Institute at the Technical University of Denmark; all outside the 
submitted work. P Gill reports support for the present manuscript paid to their 
institution from NIHR Senior Investigator Award. C Herteliu reports grants or 
contracts from the Romanian Ministry of Research, Innovation and Digitalization 
through UEFISCDI (project “Analysis of the impact of COVID-19 on the main 
demographic indicators in Romania and the Republic of Moldova by using 
econometric modeling”; code PN-IV-P8-8.3-ROMD-2023-0208), the European 
Commission Horizon 4P-CAN (Personalised Cancer Primary Prevention Research 
through Citizen Participation and Digitally Enabled Social Innovation), European 
Union – NextgenerationEU and Romanian Government under National Recovery and 
Resilience Plan for Romania through the Romanian Ministry of Research, 
Innovation and Digitalization, within Component 9, Investment I8 (projects 
“Societal and Economic Resilience within multi-hazards environment in Romania” 
contract no.760050/ 23.05.2023, cod PNRR-C9-I8-CF 267/ 29.11.2022 and “A better 
understanding of socio-economic systems using quantitative methods from Physics” 
contract no.760034/ 23.05.2023, cod PNRR-C9-I8-CF 255/ 29.11.2022); all outside 
the submitted work. I Ilic reports support for the present manuscript from the 
Ministry of Education, Science and Technological development, Republic of Serbia 
(project No 175042, 2011-2023). M Ilic reports support for the present 
manuscript from the Ministry of Science, Technological Development and 
Innovation of the Republic of Serbia (no. 451-03-47/2023-01/200111). N E Ismail 
reports unpaid leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or 
advocacy groups with the Malaysian Academy of Pharmacy as Bursar and Council 
Member and the Malaysian Pharmacists Society as Committee Member of the 
Education Chapter; all outside the submitted work. J Jozwiak reports payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from Novartis, Adamed, and Amgen; all outside the submitted 
work. K Kewal reports non-financial support from the UGC Centre of Advanced 
Study, CAS II, awarded to the Department of Anthropology, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, India, outside the submitted work. B Lacey reports support for the 
present manuscript from UK Biobank, funded largely by the UK Medical Research 
Council and Wellcome, paid to their institution, the University of Oxford. M-C 
Li reports support for the present manuscript from the National Science and 
Technology Council, Taiwan (NSTC 113-2314-B-003-002). M-C Li reports leadership 
or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, paid or 
unpaid, with the Journal of the American Heart Association as Technical Editor, 
outside the submitted work. S Lorkowski reports grants or contracts paid to 
their institution from dsm-firmenich (formerly DSM Nutritional Products); 
consulting fees from Danone, Novartis Pharma, and Swedish Orphan Biovitrum 
(SOBI); payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from AMARIN Germany, Amedes Holding, 
Amgen, Berlin-Chemie, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, Daiichi Sankyo Deutschland, 
Danone, Hubert Burda Media Holding, Janssen-Cilag, Lilly Deutschland, Novartis 
Pharma, Novo Nordisk Pharma, Roche Pharma, Sanofi-Aventis, Swedish Orphan 
Biovitrum (SOBI), and SYNLAB Holding Deutschland; support for attending meetings 
and/or travel from Amgen; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or 
Advisory Board with Amgen, Daiichi Sankyo Deutschland, Novartis Pharma, and 
Sanofi-Aventis; all outside the submitted work. Y A Melaku reports grants or 
contracts from National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia (NHMRC) 
Investigator Grant (2009776) outside the submitted work. A-F Mentis reports 
grants or contracts from ‘MilkSafe: A novel pipeline to enrich formula milk 
using omics technologies’, a research co-financed by the European Regional 
Development Fund of the European Union and Greek national funds through the 
Operational Program Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation, under the 
call RESEARCH - CREATE - INNOVATE (project code: T2EDK-02222), as well as from 
ELIDEK (Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation, MIMS-860); payment for 
expert testimony from Fondazione Cariplo, Italy as external peer-reviewer; 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, 
paid or unpaid with Systematic Reviews and Annals of Epidemiology as Editorial 
Board Member, and with Translational Psychiatry as Associate Editor; stock or 
stock options in a family winery; other financial or non-financial support from 
BGI Group as Scientific Officer; all outside the submitted work. L Monasta 
reports support for the present manuscript from the Italian Ministry of Health 
(Ricerca Corrente 34/2017), payments made to the Institute for Maternal and 
Child Health IRCCS Burlo Garofolo. A P Okekunle reports support for the present 
manuscript from National Research Foundation of Korea funded by the Ministry of 
Science and ICT (2020H1D3A1A04081265). A P Okekunle reports supports for 
attending meetings and/or travel from National Research Foundation of Korea 
funded by the Ministry of Science and ICT (2020H1D3A1A04081265) outside the 
submitted work. A Ortiz reports grants or contracts from Sanofi (paid to their 
institution: IS-FJD Universidad Autonoma de Madrid (UAM)) and as Director of the 
Catedra Mundipharma-UAM of diabetic kidney disease and the Catedra 
Astrazeneca-UAM of chronic kidney disease and electrolytes (paid to their 
institution: UAM); consulting fees from Advicciene , Astellas, AstraZeneca, 
Amicus, Amgen, Fresenius Medical Care, GSK, Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, Menarini, 
Kyowa Kirin, Alexion, Idorsia, Chiesi, Otsuka, Novo Nordisk, and Vifor Fresenius 
Medical Care Renal Pharma; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from Advicciene, 
Astellas, AstraZeneca, Amicus, Amgen, Fresenius Medical Care, GSK, Bayer, 
Sanofi-Genzyme, Menarini, Kyowa Kirin, Alexion, Idorsia, Chiesi, Otsuka, Novo 
Nordisk, and Vifor Fresenius Medical Care Renal Pharma; support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from Advicciene, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Fresenius Medical 
Care, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, Menarini, Chiesi, Otsuka, and 
Sysmex; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with 
Astellas, AstraZeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Fresenius Medical Care, Bayer, 
Sanofi-Genzyme, Idorsia, Chiesi, Otsuka, Novo Nordisk, and Sysmex; leadership or 
fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, unpaid with 
Council European Renal Association (ERA) Madrid Society of Nephrology (SOMANE); 
all outside the submitted work. A Radfar reports other financial and logistical 
support from Avicenna Medical and Clinical Research Institute to provide 
critical feedback and comments on important intellectual content on GBD 
manuscripts before publication. J Sanabria reports support for attending 
meetings and/or travel via Continuous Medical Education (CME) grant to their 
institution/department from the School of Medicine; patents granted and pending 
with no royalties; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory 
Board with their institution/department for quality assessment and assurance; 
all outside the submitted work. S Sankararaman reports consulting fees from 
Nestle (US$1400) outside the submitted work. N Scarmeas reports grants or 
contracts from Novo Nordisk paid to their institution as local principal 
investigator of recruiting site for multinational, multicentre, industry 
sponsored phase 3 treatment trial for Alzheimer's disease; participation on a 
Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine for NIH-funded study Multicultural Healthy Diet to Reduce Cognitive 
Decline & AD Risk as Chair, and with Primus AD for public private funded Phase 2 
study in Germany as Member (unpaid); all outside the submitted work. A E Schutte 
reports grants or contracts from NHMRC of Australia and Medical Research Future 
Fund of Australia; consulting fees from Abbott, Skylabs, Medtronic, and Servier; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from Medtronic, Servier, Omron, Aktiia, Sanofi, 
and Novartis; support for attending meetings and/or travel from Medtronic and 
Servier; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy 
groups, paid or unpaid with National Hypertension Taskforce of Australia as 
Co-Chair and Hypertension Australia and Australian Cardiovascular Alliance as 
Board Member; all outside the submitted work. V Shivarov reports one patent and 
one utility model planned, issued, or pending filed with the Bulgarian Patent 
Office; stock or stock options in ICON plc; other financial or non-financial 
support via a salary from ICON plc; all outside the submitted work. J A Singh 
reports consulting fees from ROMTech, Atheneum, Clearview Healthcare Partners, 
American College of Rheumatology, Yale University, Hulio, Horizon 
Pharmaceuticals, DINORA, ANI/Exeltis, USA Inc, Frictionless Solutions, Schipher, 
Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, PK Med, Two Labs, Adept Field Solutions, 
Clinical Care Options, Putnam Associates, Focus Forward, Navigant Consulting, 
Spherix, MedIQ, Jupiter Life Science, UBM LLC, Trio Health, Medscape, WebMD, 
Practice Point Communications, and the NIH; payment or honoraria for speakers 
bureaus from Simply Speaking; past support for attending meetings and/or travel 
from OMERACT as a steering committee member; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board (unpaid) with the US Food and Drug 
Administration Arthritis Advisory Committee; leadership or fiduciary roles in 
other board, society, committee, or advocacy groups with OMERACT as past 
steering committee member (paid), the Veterans Affairs Rheumatology Field 
Advisory Committee as Chair (unpaid), and the UAB Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group 
Satellite Center on Network Meta-analysis as Editor and Director (unpaid); stock 
or stock options in Atai Life Sciences, Kintara Therapeutics, Intelligent 
Biosolutions, Acumen Pharmaceutical, TPT Global Tech, Vaxart Pharmaceuticals, 
Atyu Biopharma, Adaptimmune Therapeutics, GeoVax Labs, Pieris Pharmaceuticals, 
Enzolytics, Seres Therapeutics, Tonix Pharmaceuticals Holding, Aebona 
Pharmaceuticals, and Charlotte's Web Holdings, and previously owned stock 
options in Amarin, Viking, and Moderna Pharmaceuticals; all outside the 
submitted work. J D Stanaway reports support for the present manuscript from the 
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation via grants paid to their institution. A G Thrift 
reports grants or contracts paid to their institution from NHMRC (Australia), 
Heart Foundation (Australia), and Stroke Foundation (Australia); all outside the 
submitted work. J H V Ticoalu reports leadership or fiduciary roles in board, 
society, committee, or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with Benang Merah 
Research Center, Indonesia as Co-Founder outside the submitted work. M Y Wei 
reports grants or contracts paid to their institution with NIH National 
Institute on Aging and Veterans Health Administration; leadership or fiduciary 
roles in board, society, unpaid committee, or advocacy groups with the Society 
of General Internal Medicine; all outside the submitted work.


44. J Neurol Sci. 2025 Jan 15;468:123340. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2024.123340. Epub
2024  Dec 9.

Brain health: Pathway to primary prevention of neurodegenerative disorders of 
environmental origin.

Spencer PS(1), Berntsson SG(2), Buguet A(3), Butterfield P(4), Calne DB(5), 
Calne SM(5), Giménez-Roldán S(6), Hugon J(7), Kahlon S(8), Kisby GE(9), Lagrange 
E(10), Landtblom AE(11), Ludolph AC(12), Nunn PB(13), Palmer VS(8), Reis J(14), 
Román GC(15), Sipilä JOT(16), Spencer SS(17), Angues RV(8), Vernoux JP(18), 
Yabushita M(19).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, 
Oregon, USA. Electronic address: spencer@ohsu.edu.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences (Neurology), Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(3)Association RISE, 67205 Oberhausbergen, France.
(4)Elson S. Floyd College of Medicine, Washington State University (retired), 
Washington, USA.
(5)University of British Columbia (retired), Vancouver, Canada.
(6)Neurology, Hospital General Universitario "Gregorio Marañón" Doctor Esquerdo 
(retired), Madrid, Spain.
(7)Department of Cognitive Neurology, Lariboisière FW Hospital University of 
Paris, France.
(8)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, 
Oregon, USA.
(9)Biomedical Sciences, College of Osteopathic Medicine of Pacific Northwest, 
Western University of Health Sciences (retired), Lebanon, Oregon, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology, Reference Center of Neuromuscular Disease and ALS 
Consultations, Grenoble University Hospital, Grenoble, France.
(11)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University (retired), Sweden; 
Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Linköping University, Sweden.
(12)Department of Neurology, University of Ulm (retired), Ulm, Germany.
(13)School of Physical and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London, 
London, UK.
(14)Association RISE, 67205 Oberhausbergen, France; Department of Neurology, 
University of Strasbourg (retired), Strasbourg, France.
(15)Department of Neurology, Houston Methodist Hospital, University of Houston, 
TX, USA.
(16)Department of Neurology, North Karelia Central Hospital, Joensuu, Finland; 
Department of Neurology, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(17)Pediatric Associates of the Northwest, Portland, OR, USA.
(18)Unité de Recherche Aliments Bioprocédés Toxicologie Environnements, 
Normandie University (retired), UNICAEN, Caen, France.
(19)Graduate School of International Development, Nagoya University, Nagoya, 
Japan.

While rising global rates of neurodegenerative disease encourage early diagnosis 
and therapeutic intervention to block clinical expression (secondary 
prevention), a more powerful approach is to identify and remove environmental 
factors that trigger long-latencybrain disease (primary prevention) by acting on 
a susceptible genotype or acting alone. The latter is illustrated by the 
post-World War II decline and disappearance of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and 
Parkinsonism-Dementia Complex (ALS/PDC), a prototypical often-familial 
neurodegenerative disease formerly present in very high incidence on the island 
of Guam. Lessons learned from 75 years of investigation on the etiology of 
ALS/PDC include: the importance of focusing field research on the disease 
epicenter and patients with early-onset disease; soliciting exposure history 
from patients, family, and community to guide multidisciplinary biomedical 
investigation; recognition that disease phenotype may vary with exposure 
history, and that familial brain disease may have a primarily environmental 
origin. Furthermore, removal from exposure to the environmental trigger effects 
primary disease prevention.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2024.123340
PMID: 39667295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Feb 5;283:117066. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.117066.
Epub  2024 Nov 27.

Discovery of novel hybrid tryptamine-rivastigmine molecules as potent AChE and 
BChE inhibitors exhibiting multifunctional properties for the management of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Shankar G(1), Kumar P(2), Rai S(3), Ghosh A(4), Varma T(5), Wani MA(5), Kumar 
S(1), Mandloi U(1), Singh GK(6), Garg P(5), Kulkarni O(4), Srikrishna S(2), 
Kumar S(7), Modi G(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering & Technology, Indian Institute of 
Technology (BHU), Varanasi, U.P, 221005, India.
(2)Cell and Neurobiology Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry, Institute of 
Science, BHU, Varanasi, 221005, India.
(3)Department of Biophysics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
110029, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Birla Institute of Technology and Science Pilani, 
Hyderabad Campus, Jawaharnagar Shamirpet Mandal, 500078, Hyderabad, India.
(5)Department of Pharmacoinformatics, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER), S.A.S. Nagar, Punjab, 160062, India.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Science, Central University of South 
Bihar, Gaya, 824236, India.
(7)Department of Biophysics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
110029, India; Department of Health, Education and Technology, Lulea University 
of Technology, Lulea, Sweden.
(8)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering & Technology, Indian Institute of 
Technology (BHU), Varanasi, U.P, 221005, India. Electronic address: 
gpmodi.phe@itbhu.ac.in.

Contemporary research evidence has corroborated a gradual loss of central 
cholinergic neurons in Alzheimer's Disease (AD). This progressive deterioration 
leads to cognitive dysfunction and impaired motor activity, culminating in the 
brain cell's death in the disease. The approved drugs for AD treatment can only 
offer relief from symptoms without addressing the underlying pathological 
hallmarks of the disease. To address the limitations associated with 
rivastigmine (RIV), a marketed drug for AD, a series of tryptamine derivatives 
was designed, synthesized, and evaluated in various in-vitro and in-vivo AD 
models. Enzyme inhibition studies identified compounds 6d and 6e as the lead 
molecules with potent inhibitors against AChE (6d, IC50: 0.99 ± 0.009 nM and 6e 
IC50: 7.97 ± 0.016 nM and BChE (6d, IC50: 27.79 ± 0.21 nM and 6e, IC50: 
0.79 ± 0.005 nM), compared to the marketed drug Riv (AChE, IC50: 6630 ± 0.76 nM, 
BChE IC50 = 91 ± 0.40 nM). The molecular docking and dynamics studies 
corroborated the enzyme inhibition studies. The PAMPA assay strongly suggested 
the BBB crossing ability of the lead molecules. Further, 6d and 6e demonstrated 
the capability to counteract oxidative stress and Aβ1-42 in various in-vitro 
studies. Compound 6e exhibited remarkable radical scavenging activity in the 
DPPH assay (IC50: 22.91 ± 1.73 μM) compared to rivastigmine (% radical 
scavenging activity: 3.71 ± 0.09 at 200 μM). Interestingly, 6d and 6e exhibited 
promising activity in the AD Drosophila model by protecting eye phenotypes from 
degeneration induced by Aβ1-42 toxicity and reduced mitochondrial and cellular 
oxidative stress in this model. Furthermore, upon oral administration, 6d and 6e 
could reverse scopolamine-induced amnesia by improving spatial and cognitive 
memory in mice at 0.3 and 0.5 mg/kg compared to rivastigmine at 3 mg/kg and were 
found to have potent ex-vivo anti-ChEs properties, which are correlated with the 
observed pro-cognitive effects in the Morris Water Maze, likely mediated through 
the inhibition of both cholinesterases. The expression of various 
neuroprotection markers, such as BDNF and TRKB, was significantly overexpressed 
compared to the disease control group.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.117066
PMID: 39667052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


46. J Med Internet Res. 2024 Dec 10;26:e58581. doi: 10.2196/58581.

Implementation of a Social Media Strategy for Public Health Promotion in Black, 
American Indian or Alaska Native, and Hispanic or Latino Communities During the 
COVID-19 Pandemic: Cross-Sectional Study.

Mora Pinzon M(1), Hills O(2), Levy G(1), James TT(1)(3), Benitez A(4), Lawrence 
S(1), Ellis T(1), Washington V(5), Solorzano L(6), Tellez-Giron P(7), Cano 
Ospina F(7), Metoxen MF(8), Gleason CE(1)(3)(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Department of Medicine, School of 
Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI, 
United States.
(2)Department of Ethnic Studies, College of Arts and Sciences, Lawrence 
University, Appleton, WI, United States.
(3)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Department of Medicine, School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI, 
United States.
(4)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin - Madison, 
Madison, WI, United States.
(5)Venus Inspires, Madison, WI, United States.
(6)UnityPoint Health - Meriter, Madison, WI, United States.
(7)Latino Health Council of Dane County, Madison, WI, United States.
(8)Native American Center for Health Professions, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI, United States.
(9)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, William S. Middleton 
Memorial Veterans Hospital, Department of Veterans Affairs, Madison, WI, United 
States.

BACKGROUND: Individuals identifying as Black, American Indian or Alaska Native, 
or Hispanic or Latino lack access to culturally appropriate accurate information 
and are the target of disinformation campaigns, which create doubt in science 
and health care providers and might play a role in sustaining health disparities 
related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to create and disseminate culturally and medically 
appropriate social media messages for Black, Latino, and American Indian or 
Alaska Native communities in Wisconsin and evaluate their reach and 
effectiveness in addressing the information needs of these communities.
METHODS: Our team identified relevant COVID-19 topics based on feedback from 
their respective community, developed lay format materials, and translated 
materials into culturally appropriate social media messages that community 
advocates delivered across their respective communities. Social media metrics 
(reach, engagement, and impressions) were collected using Sprout Social and 
Facebook Analytics. We hosted 9 focus groups with community members to learn 
about their social media use. These data were analyzed using an inductive 
approach, using NVivo software (release 1.7) to code content.
RESULTS: Between August 2021 and January 2023, we created 980 unique social 
media posts that reached 88,790 individuals and gathered >6700 engagements. 
Average reach per post was similar across the 3 communities, despite differences 
in the number of posts and followers on each page: 119.46 (Latino individuals), 
111.74 (Black individuals), and 113.11 (Oneida Nation members). The type of 
posts that had higher engagement rate per reached person (ERR) varied across 
communities and platforms, with the highest being live videos for the Latino 
community on Facebook (ERR 9.4%), videos for the Black community on Facebook 
(ERR 19.53%), and social media messages for the Oneida Nation community (ERR 
59.01%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our project presents a unique and effective model for health 
messages and highlights the need for tailoring social media messages and 
approaches for minoritized audiences (eg, age, gender, race, and ethnicity). 
Further research studies are needed to explore how specific types of information 
affect the dissemination of information and the implications for health 
communications.

©Maria Mora Pinzon, Ornella Hills, George Levy, Taryn T James, Ashley Benitez, 
Sacheen Lawrence, Tiffany Ellis, Venus Washington, Lizbeth Solorzano, Patricia 
Tellez-Giron, Fernando Cano Ospina, Melissa F Metoxen, Carey E Gleason. 
Originally published in the Journal of Medical Internet Research 
(https://www.jmir.org), 10.12.2024.

DOI: 10.2196/58581
PMCID: PMC11668992
PMID: 39657164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: CEG serves on the 
following scientific and external advisory boards: Stanford University 
Alzheimer’s Disease Center’s External Advisory Board; Scientific Advisory Board 
for Huntington Medical Research Institute; University of New Mexico’s 
Alzheimer’s Disease Center’s External Advisory Board; Advisory Board for 
documentary film produced in partnership with PBS for national broadcast, 
entitled Matter of Mind: My Alzheimer’s Chair; Institutional Data and Safety 
Monitoring Board (IDSMB) Arterial stiffness, Cognition and Equol (ACE) trial, 
funded by NIA (R01AG074971; PI: Akira Sekikawa); University of Pittsburgh Board; 
Scientific Advisory Board for UH2AG083258 study entitled “Research 
Infrastructure for the Study of Alzheimer's Disease and Alzheimer's 
Disease-related Dementias in Older Asian Americans.


47. PLoS One. 2024 Dec 12;19(12):e0310900. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0310900. 
eCollection 2024.

Effects of rivastigmine on gait in patients with neurodegenerative disorders: A 
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Shim SR(1), Kim JY(1)(2), Kwon KY(3), Shin J(1), Lee Y(4), Lee SM(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Konyang University College of Medicine, 
Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Konyang University 
College of Medicine, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Soonchunhyang University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Konyang University College of 
Medicine, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Konyang University College of Medicine, Daejeon, 
Republic of Korea.
(6)Myunggok Medical Research Institute, Konyang University College of Medicine, 
Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Gait disturbances are commonly observed in patients with 
neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
and higher-level gait disorders, which are associated with cholinergic deficits. 
We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to investigate the effects of 
rivastigmine on improvement in gait.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search was conducted using Medical Subject 
Heading (MeSH) terms and text keywords related to gait and falls after 
rivastigmine treatment for neurodegenerative disorders. The intervention 
(rivastigmine), comparison (control or no treatment), and outcomes of 
improvement in gait speed and fall were assessed from database inception to 
April 2024. References and collected data were meticulously reviewed to ensure 
the integrity of the included studies. Standardized mean differences (SMDs) and 
Hedges'g, along with their 95% confidence intervals (Cls), were calculated for 
gait speed and number of falls.
RESULTS: A total of 222 articles were identified during the initial search 
across different electronic databases, 50 including PubMed (n = 23), Cochrane (n 
= 19), Embase (n = 139), Scopus (n = 38), and a manual search (n = 3). Finally, 
we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis focusing on the final four 
studies, encompassing 286 participants. The pooled SMD for the overall gait 
speed without a comparison group was 0.761 (95% CI: -1.165 to 2.688), indicating 
no significant improvement in gait speed. For the overall number of falls 
between the rivastigmine treatment and control groups, the pooled SMD was -0.366 
(95% CI: -0.650 to -0.083). A statistically significant reduction in the number 
of falls was observed in the rivastigmine group than in the control group.
CONCLUSION: Rivastigmine treatment in patients with neurodegenerative disorders 
tend to improve gait speed and significantly reduces fall incidence. Given the 
limited efficacy of current treatments for gait disturbances and falls, dual 
cholinesterase inhibitors like rivastigmine could be a promising therapeutic 
option.

Copyright: © 2024 Shim et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0310900
PMCID: PMC11637393
PMID: 39666629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


48. JAMA Health Forum. 2024 Dec 6;5(12):e245252. doi: 
10.1001/jamahealthforum.2024.5252.

Developing Evidence-Based Health Policy for Dementia Care.

Baicker K(1), Simon K(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(2)Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana.

Plain Language Summary: This JAMA Forum discusses developments in health policy 
that may help address issues, including rising costs and complex care delivery, 
in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer disease and related dementias in the 
US.

DOI: 10.1001/jamahealthforum.2024.5252
PMID: 39666359


49. J Neurol. 2024 Dec 12;272(1):25. doi: 10.1007/s00415-024-12732-3.

Strong diagnostic performance of plasma ptau217 for CSF biomarker-defined 
young-onset Alzheimer disease in a diagnostically heterogeneous clinical cohort.

Eratne D(1)(2)(3), Li QX(4), Lewis C(5), Dang C(5)(6), Kang MJY(7)(5), Grewal 
J(8), Loi S(7)(5), Walterfang M(7)(5)(4), Evans AH(7), Malpas CB(9)(10), Pedrini 
S(11), Martins R(11)(12), Chatterjee P(4), Zetterberg H(13)(14)(15)(16), Blennow 
K(13), Berkovic SF(17), Santillo AF(18), Collins S(4), Masters CL(4), Velakoulis 
D(7)(5); MiND Study Group.

Collaborators: Dobson H, Watson R, Yassi N, O'Brien TJ, Kwan P, Pantelis C, 
Hansson O, Janelidze S, Stehmann C, Fowler C, Farrand S, Keem M, Kaylor-Hughes 
C, Kanaan R, Perucca P, Ali R, King A, Gunn J, Pan T, Goranitis I, Simpson-Yap 
S, Kalincik T.

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatry, Royal Melbourne Hospital, 300 Grattan St, Parkville, VIC, 
3052, Australia. deratne@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Melbourne, Grattan St, Parkville, 
Melbourne, VIC, 3052, Australia. deratne@unimelb.edu.au.
(3)The Florey Institute, 30 Royal Parade, Parkville, VIC, 3052, Australia. 
deratne@unimelb.edu.au.
(4)The Florey Institute, 30 Royal Parade, Parkville, VIC, 3052, Australia.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Melbourne, Grattan St, Parkville, 
Melbourne, VIC, 3052, Australia.
(6)National Ageing Research Institute, 34-54 Poplar Rd, Parkville, VIC, 3052, 
Australia.
(7)Neuropsychiatry, Royal Melbourne Hospital, 300 Grattan St, Parkville, VIC, 
3052, Australia.
(8)The Alfred Hospital, 55 Commercial Rd, Melbourne, VIC, 3004, Australia.
(9)Department of Medicine, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Grattan St, Parkville, 
Melbourne, VIC, 3052, Australia.
(10)University of Melbourne, Grattan St Parkville VIC 3052, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(11)Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, 6027, Australia.
(12)Macquarie Medical School, Macquarie University, Balaclava Rd, Macquarie 
Park, NSW, 2109, Australia.
(13)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, 
Universitetsplatsen 1, 405 30, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(14)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 43180, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(15)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(16)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(17)Epilepsy Research Centre, Department of Medicine, Austin Health, The 
University of Melbourne, Grattan St, Parkville, VIC, 3052, Australia.
(18)Department of Clinical Sciences, Clinical Memory Research Unit, Faculty of 
Medicine, Lund University, 221 00, Malmö, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: We investigated diagnostic utility of phosphorylated tau 217 and 181 
(ptau217, ptau181), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), amyloid beta 42 and 
40 (Aβ42, Aβ40), and neurofilament light (NfL) to distinguish biomarker-defined 
Alzheimer disease (AD) from non-AD conditions, in a heterogenous clinical cohort 
of younger people.
METHODS: Plasma biomarkers were analysed using ultrasensitive technology, and 
compared in patients with CSF Alzheimer disease profiles (A+T+) to other CSF 
profiles (Other).
RESULTS: Seventy-nine patients were included, median age 60.8 years: 16 A+T+, 63 
Other. Ptau217, ptau181, GFAP were significantly elevated in A+T+ compared to 
Other (3.67 vs 1.12 pg/mL, 3.87 vs 1.79 pg/mL, 189 vs 80 pg/mL, respectively). 
ptau217 distinguished AD from Other with 90% accuracy (88% specificity, 100% 
sensitivity). ptau217 also demonstrated strong diagnostic performance for 
clinically diagnosed AD.
CONCLUSIONS: Plasma ptau217 has strong diagnostic performance in distinguishing 
CSF biomarker-defined AD in a clinically relevant, younger cohort of people with 
symptoms, adding further weight for a simple diagnostic blood test for AD as a 
cause of a patient's symptoms.

© 2024. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-024-12732-3
PMID: 39666133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests and financial 
disclosures: HZ has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant 
for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry 
Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, 
Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche, and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). SL has received 
honorarium from Lundbeck and Otsuka. AHE has received honoraria from Abbvie, 
STADA, Seqirus, and Ipsen. KB has served as a consultant and at advisory boards 
for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac 
Pte. Ltd, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens 
Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and 
Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials and participated in 
educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche 
Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB 
(BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work 
presented in this paper. All the other authors have nothing to disclose. 
Statistical analysis conducted by: Dr Dhamidhu Eratne. Consent statement: All 
human subjects provided informed consent.


50. J Neurol. 2024 Dec 12;272(1):46. doi: 10.1007/s00415-024-12816-0.

Diagnosing primary lateral sclerosis: a clinico-pathological study.

de Boer EMJ(1), de Vries BS(1), Van Hecke W(2), Mühlebner A(2), Vincken KL(3), 
Mol CP(3), van Rheenen W(1), Westeneng HJ(1), Veldink JH(1), Höglinger 
GU(4)(5)(6), Morris HR(7), Litvan I(8), Raaphorst J(9), Ticozzi N(10), Corcia 
P(11), Vandenberghe W(12), Pijnenburg YAL(13), Seelaar H(14), Ingre C(15), Van 
Damme P(12)(16), van den Berg LH(1), van de Warrenburg BPC(17), van Es MA(18).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Pathology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Image Sciences Institute, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Neurology, LMU University Hospital, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) München, Munich, Germany.
(5)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(6)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(7)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, University College London, 
London, UK.
(8)Department of Neurosciences, UC San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology and Neurophysiology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC, Location AMC, University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(10)Department of Neurology and Laboratory of Neuroscience, IRCCS Istituto 
Auxologico Italiano, Milan, Italy.
(11)Service de Neurologie, CHRU Bretonneau, Tours, France.
(12)Department of Neurology, University Hospitals Leuven, Louvain, Belgium.
(13)Department of Neurology, Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam University 
Medical Centers, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(14)Department of Neurology, Erasmus University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(15)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(16)Laboratory of Neurobiology, Department of Neuroscience, KU Leuven and Center 
for Brain and Disease Research, VIB, Louvain, Belgium.
(17)Department of Neurology, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and 
Behaviour, Center of Expertise for Parkinson and Movement Disorders, Radboud 
University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(18)Department of Neurology, Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands. m.a.vanes@umcutrecht.nl.

BACKGROUND:  Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) is a rare motor neuron disease 
characterized by upper motor neuron degeneration, diagnosed clinically due to 
the absence of a (neuropathological) gold standard. Post-mortem studies, 
particularly TDP-43 pathology analysis, are limited.
METHODS: This study reports on 5 cases in which the diagnostic criteria for PLS 
were met, but in which neuropathology findings showed (partially) conflicting 
results. These discrepancies prompted us to perform a clinico-pathology study 
focussing on diagnostic challenges and accuracy in PLS. To this end, all cases 
were reviewed by an international panel of 11 experts using an e-module and 
structured questionnaires.
RESULTS: Autopsy exhibited neuropathological findings consistent with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in one case, while two cases exhibited 
similar, but more limited lower motor neuron involvement, hinting at PLS or ALS 
overlap. Another case displayed tau-pathology indicative of progressive 
supranuclear palsy. The final case displayed extensive myelin loss without a 
proteinopathy or a clear diagnosis. The expert panel identified 24 different 
ancillary investigations lacking across cases (e.g. genetic testing, DAT scans, 
neuropsychological evaluation), listed 28 differential diagnoses, and identified 
13 different conditions as the most likely diagnosis. Autopsy results led panel 
members to change their final diagnosis in 42% of the cases.
CONCLUSIONS: This study underscores the diagnostic challenges posed by diverse 
underlying pathologies resulting in upper motor neuron phenotypes. Despite 
adhering to the same diagnostic criteria, consensus amongst experts was limited. 
Ensuring the diagnostic consistency is crucial for advancing understanding and 
treatment of PLS. Explicit guidelines for excluding potential mimics along with 
a neuropathological gold standard are imperative.

© 2024. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-024-12816-0
PMID: 39666071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: E.M.J. de 
Boer: reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. B.S. de Vries: reports 
no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. W. van Hecke: reports no disclosures 
relevant to the manuscript. A. Mühlebner: reports no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript. K.L. Vincken: reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. 
C.P. Mol: reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. W. van Rheenen: 
reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. H-J Westeneng: reports no 
disclosures relevant to the manuscript. J.H. Veldink: reports to have sponsored 
research agreements with Biogen and Astra Zeneca. This project has received 
funding from the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union’s 
Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (grant agreement n° 772376 – 
EScORIAL. G.U. Höglinger: reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. 
H.R. Morris: reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. I. Litvan: 
reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. J. Raaphorst: reports no 
disclosures relevant to the manuscript. N. Ticozzi: reports no disclosures 
relevant to the manuscript. P. Corcia: reports no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript. W. Vandenberghe: reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. 
Y.A.L. Pijnenburg: reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. H. 
Seelaar: reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. C. Ingre: reports no 
disclosures relevant to the manuscript. P. Van Damme: reports no disclosures 
relevant to the manuscript. L.H. van den Berg: declares fees to his institution 
from Biogen, Wave, Amylyx, Ferrer, and Cytokinetics for being on a scientific 
advisory board; fees to his institution from Amylyx for a lecture; an 
unrestricted educational grant from Takeda; and is the Chair of ENCALS and 
TRICALS. B.P.C. van de Warrenburg: reports no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript. M.A. van Es: has consulted for Biogen, and has received travel 
grants from Shire (formerly Baxalta), performed work as a medical monitor for 
Ferrer (NCT05178810) with fees going to his institution. MAvE receives funding 
support from the Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development 
(Vidi scheme), The Thierry Latran Foundation, the Motor Neurone Disease 
Association, FIGHT-MND and the ALS Foundation Netherlands. He is also a member 
of the European Reference Network for Rare Neuromuscular Diseases (ERN-NMD).


51. Biosens Bioelectron. 2025 Mar 1;271:117032. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2024.117032. 
Epub 2024 Dec 11.

Innovative bioinspired hydrogel scaffolds enabling in-situ hybrid nanoflower 
integration for dual-mode acetylcholinesterase inhibitor profiling.

Liu X(1), Zhang X(1), Wei D(1), Liu Z(2), Yang L(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, China University of Petroleum 
(East China), Qingdao, 266580, PR China.
(2)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Shenzhen Bay Laboratory, Shenzhen, 
518055, PR China. Electronic address: liuzhen@szbl.ac.cn.
(3)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, China University of Petroleum 
(East China), Qingdao, 266580, PR China. Electronic address: 
yanglimin@upc.edu.cn.

This study introduces an innovative bioinspired hydrogel scaffold tailored to 
facilitate the in-situ integration of hybrid nanoflowers (HNFs) into the sensing 
interface, thereby establishing a versatile dual-mode platform for the sensitive 
profiling of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors, a pivotal aspect in the 
pursuit of Alzheimer's disease therapeutics. Mimicking the tenacious anchoring 
of natural tree roots, our design employs magnetic bead imprinting with 
Strep-Tactin-coated magnetic beads (STMBs) to shape the hydrogel, which is then 
complemented by the integration of AChE-specific aptamers. This configuration 
creates a stable and biomimetic environment that nurtures HNF growth, thereby 
enhancing the binding integrity of HNFs with sensing interfaces. The platform's 
dual-mode detection capability, integrating both colorimetric and 
electrochemical sensing, is demonstrated through the effective evaluation of 
galantamine's inhibitory potency, with IC50 values that highlight its 
therapeutic potential. The hydrogel's exceptional reusability, maintaining over 
95% of its initial activity after multiple uses, and its long-term stability, 
retaining 91% of its initial performance, further highlight its practicality and 
cost-effectiveness. In summary, this bioinspired hydrogel scaffold offers a 
novel, efficient, and dependable biosensing strategy for HNF-based biosensors, 
showing great potential for broad applications in medical diagnostics and 
advanced biosensing technologies.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2024.117032
PMID: 39665919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


52. Actas Esp Psiquiatr. 2024 Dec;52(6):786-799. doi: 10.62641/aep.v52i6.1713.

Quercetin Regulates the Polarization of Microglia through the NRF2/HO1 Pathway 
and Mitigates Alzheimer's Disease.

Feng Y(1), Yu X(1), Han J(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Medicine Department, Affiliated Hospital of Shandong Second Medical 
University, 261041 Weifang, Shandong, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a burdening disease and is the main 
cause of dementia. Quercetin (Que), an antioxidant, plays potential roles in 
treating age-related disorders, including AD. This study aimed to validate the 
effects of Que on AD and explore the underlying mechanisms.
METHODS: Mice with no treatment, amyloid-β Aβ (1-42) treatment (for acquiring AD 
model), or Aβ (1-42) plus Que treatment were used. Cognitive function was 
determined using the open field test (OFT), objective recognition test, and 
Y-maze test. In brain tissues, mRNA levels of inflammation cytokines, the M1 
microglia marker cluster of differentiation (CD)86, and the M2 microglia markers 
arginase 1 (Arg1) and CD206 were measured. Nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 
(NRF2)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO1) pathway-related proteins were detected by western 
blot. Additionally, mechanisms were investigated using human microglia HMC3 
cells treated with Aβ (1-42) and Aβ (1-42) plus Que. The NRF2/HO1 pathway in 
HMC3 cells was inhibited using the selective inhibitor ML385. Cell viability and 
death were assessed using the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) release levels, respectively. Cell apoptosis was measured by 
terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL). 
Levels of NRF2/HO1 pathway-related proteins, inflammation cytokines, and 
oxidative stress-related markers, including malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide 
dismutase (SOD), and glutathione (reduced glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione 
disulfide (GSSG)), were determined in HMC3 cells. Flow cytometry was used to 
determine M1 markers CD86 and CD80 and M2 markers CD206 and CD163.
RESULTS: Cognitive ability was impaired in AD model mice, and Que treatment 
reversed this impairment (p < 0.05). Levels of interleukin (IL)-1β, tumor 
necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and IL-6 were increased, while M2 markers were 
decreased in the AD model mouse brain. Que treatment reversed these changes (p < 
0.001). The NRF2/HO1 pathway was slightly inhibited in AD mice brain, while 
further activated by Que (p < 0.05). Que reversed the Aβ (1-42)-impaired cell 
viability. Through greatly activating NRF2/HO1 pathway, Que suppressed Aβ 
(1-42)-induced cell death, decreased Aβ (1-42)-promoted IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, MDA, 
CD86 and CD80, increased Aβ (1-42)-suppressed SOD and GSH/GSSG, and greatly 
increased CD206 and CD163 (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Quercetin, through the activation of the NRF2/HO1 pathway, promotes 
M2 polarization of microglia, suppresses Aβ (1-42)-induced inflammation and 
oxidative stress, protects microglia from Aβ (1-42)-induced damage, improves 
cognitive function in mice, and demonstrates therapeutic potential for AD.

DOI: 10.62641/aep.v52i6.1713
PMCID: PMC11636543
PMID: 39665609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


53. Cardiol Rev. 2024 Dec 12. doi: 10.1097/CRD.0000000000000831. Online ahead of 
print.

Cardiovascular Effect of Drugs Used to Treat Alzheimer's Disease.

Eng S(1), Aifuwa E(1), Frishman WH(1), Aronow WS(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Medicine, New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY.
(2)Departments of Cardiology and Medicine, Westchester Medical Center and New 
York Medical College, Valhalla, NY.

This review examines the cardiovascular effects of the mainstay drugs used to 
treat Alzheimer's disease (AD), namely cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) and 
memantine. ChEIs represent the current first-line treatment for AD. Memantine is 
typically reserved for moderate to severe AD. Conventionally, ChEIs are thought 
to increase vagal tone, resulting in an increased risk of cardiac side effects 
such as bradycardia. However, emerging evidence suggests that ChEIs may offer a 
protective role on overall cardiovascular mortality in patients with dementia. 
Similarly, memantine, which is an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, has 
demonstrated cardioprotective properties in animal studies, raising the question 
of its clinical applications. Recently, aducanumab and lecanemab, antiamyloid-β 
monoclonal antibodies that aim to slow the progression of disease, have been 
Food and Drug Administration-approved for the treatment of AD. This review 
explores the current evidence regarding potential cardiovascular risks and 
protective effects of ChEIs and memantine in the treatment of AD, as well as the 
cardiovascular effects of aducanumab and lecanemab.

Copyright © 2024 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/CRD.0000000000000831
PMID: 39665555

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


54. Int J Psychiatry Med. 2025 May;60(3):280-295. doi: 10.1177/00912174241290962.
 Epub 2024 Dec 12.

Randomized controlled trial of Bushen Yinao pill combined with conventional 
therapy on intestinal flora and cognitive function in older patients with 
Alzheimer's disease.

Wang W(1), Zhang J(1), Li C(1).

Author information:
(1)Harbin Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital, Harbin City, China.

ObjectiveThis study evaluated the effects of the Bushen Yinao pill, combined 
with standard therapy, on gut flora, inflammatory markers, and cognitive 
function in older patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).MethodsA total of 136 
AD patients treated at the department of neurology at a hospital in China from 
August 2022 to September 2023 were randomly assigned to two groups: 68 patients 
received standard treatment (control group, CTG), and 68 patients received the 
Bushen Yinao pill plus standard treatment (intervention group, ITG). Outcomes 
included Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) syndrome scores, gut microbiota 
composition, inflammatory markers, cognitive function, overall efficacy, and 
safety.ResultsAfter treatment, the intervention group (ITG) showed significant 
reductions in TCM syndrome scores compared to the control group (CTG) (P < 
0.05). The ITG also showed significant increases in beneficial bacterial flora 
in the gut and decreases in harmful bacteria compared to the CTG (P < 0.05). 
Inflammatory markers (Aβ, IL-6, TNF-α) were reduced, and cognitive function 
improved significantly more in the ITG (P < 0.05). There were no significant 
differences in adverse reactions between the groups (P > 0.05).ConclusionThe 
Bushen Yinao pill, when combined with standard therapy, may help to regulate gut 
microbiota, reduce inflammatory markers, and enhance cognitive function in AD 
patients, while also showing a favorable safety profile. Further research is 
recommended to validate these findings in other populations.

DOI: 10.1177/00912174241290962
PMID: 39665445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


55. Mol Pharm. 2025 Jan 6;22(1):229-241. doi: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.4c00870. 
Epub 2024 Dec 12.

Synthesis and Characterization of Transferrin and Cell-Penetrating 
Peptide-Functionalized Liposomal Nanoparticles to Deliver Plasmid ApoE2 In Vitro 
and In Vivo in Mice.

Muolokwu CE(1), Gothwal A(1), Kanekiyo T(2), Singh J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, College of Health 
and Human Sciences, North Dakota State University, Fargo, North Dakota 
58108-6050, United States.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida 32224, United 
States.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative condition 
characterized by the aggregation of amyloid-β plaques and neurofibrillary 
tangles in the brain, leading to synaptic dysfunction and neuronal degeneration. 
Recently, new treatment approaches involving drugs such as donanemab and 
lecanemab have been introduced for AD. However, these drug regimens have been 
associated with adverse effects, leading to the exploration of gene therapy as a 
potential treatment option. The apolipoprotein E (ApoE) isoforms (ApoE2, ApoE3, 
and ApoE4) play pivotal roles in AD pathology, with ApoE2 known for its 
protective effects against AD, making it a promising candidate for gene therapy 
interventions. However, delivering therapeutics across the blood-brain barrier 
(BBB) remains a crucial challenge in treating neurological disorders. Liposomes, 
lipid-based vesicles, are effective nanocarriers due to their ability to shield 
therapeutics from degradation, though they often lack specificity for brain 
delivery. To address this issue, liposomes were functionalized with 
cell-penetrating peptides such as penetratin (Pen), cingulin (Cgn), and a 
targeting ligand transferrin (Tf). This modification strategy aimed to enhance 
the delivery of therapeutic ApoE2 plasmids across the BBB to neurons, thereby 
increasing the level of ApoE2 protein expression. Experimental findings 
demonstrated that dual-functionalized liposomes (CgnTf and PenTf) exhibited 
higher cellular uptake, biodistribution, and transfection efficiency than 
single-functionalized (Pen, Cgn, or Tf) and nonfunctionalized liposomes. In 
vitro studies using primary neuronal cells, bEnd.3 cells, and primary astrocytes 
consistently supported these findings. Following a single dose treatment via 
tail vein administration in C57BL6/J mice, in vivo biodistribution results 
showed significantly higher biodistribution levels in the brain (∼12% ID/gram of 
tissue) for dual-functionalized liposomes. Notably, treatment with 
dual-functionalized liposomes resulted in a 2-fold increase in ApoE2 expression 
levels compared to baseline levels. These findings highlight the potential of 
dual-functionalized liposomes as an efficacious delivery system for ApoE2 gene 
therapy in AD, highlighting a promising strategy to address the disease's 
underlying mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.4c00870
PMCID: PMC11888121
PMID: 39665408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Curr Neuropharmacol. 2025;23(6):728-754. doi:
10.2174/1570159X23666241211095018.

Efficacy and Safety of Natural Apigenin Treatment for Alzheimer's Disease: Focus 
on In vivo Research Advancements.

Zhang N(1), Nao J(2), Dong X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, China Medical University Seventh Clinical College, 
Fushun, Liaoning P.R. China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, P.R. China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common dementia in clinics. 
Despite decades of progress in the study of the pathogenesis of AD, clinical 
treatment strategies for AD remain lacking. Apigenin, a natural flavonoid 
compound, is present in a variety of food and Chinese herbs and has been 
proposed to have a wide range of therapeutic effects on dementia.
OBJECTIVE: To clarify the relevant pharmacological mechanism and therapeutic 
effect of apigenin on animal models of AD.
METHODS: Computer-based searches of the PubMed, Cochrane Library, Embase, and 
Web of Science databases were used to identify preclinical literature on the use 
of apigenin for treating AD. All databases were searched from their respective 
inception dates until June 2023. The meta-analysis was performed with Review 
manager 5.4.1 and STATA 17.0.
RESULTS: Thirteen studies were eventually enrolled, which included 736 animals 
in total. Meta-analysis showed that apigenin had a positive effect on AD. 
Compared to controls, apigenin treatment reduced escape latency, increased the 
percentage of time spent in the target quadrant and the number of plateaus 
traversed; apigenin was effective in reducing nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) p65 
levels; apigenin effectively increased antioxidant molecules SOD and GSH-px and 
decreased oxidative index MDA; for ERK/CREB/BDNF pathway, apigenin effectively 
increased BDNF and pCREB molecules; additionally, apigenin effectively decreased 
caspase3 levels and the number of apoptotic cells in the hippocampus.
CONCLUSION: The results show some efficacy of apigenin in the treatment of AD 
models. However, further clinical studies are needed to confirm the clinical 
efficacy of apigenin.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1570159X23666241211095018
PMCID: PMC12163474
PMID: 39665306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest, 
financial or otherwise.


57. Brain Commun. 2024 Dec 9;6(6):fcae438. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae438. 
eCollection 2024.

A data-driven framework for biomarker discovery applied to optimizing modern 
clinical and preclinical trials on Alzheimer's disease.

Llorente-Saguer I(1), Oxtoby NP(2).

Author information:
(1)UCL Hawkes Institute and Department of Medical Physics and Biomedical 
Engineering, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(2)UCL Hawkes Institute and Department of Computer Science, University College 
London, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

PET is used to measure tau protein accumulation in Alzheimer's disease. Multiple 
biomarkers have been proposed to track disease progression, most notably the 
standardized uptake value ratio of PET tracer uptake in a target region of 
interest relative to a reference region, but literature suggests these region 
choices are nontrivial. This study presents and evaluates a novel framework, 
BioDisCVR, designed to facilitate the discovery of useful biomarkers, 
demonstrated on [18F]AV-1451 tau PET data in multiple cohorts. BioDisCVR 
enhances signal-to-noise by conducting a data-driven search through the space of 
possible combinations of regional tau PET signals into a ratio of two composite 
regions, driven by a user-defined fitness function. This study compares 
ratio-based biomarkers discovered by the framework with state-of-the-art 
standardized uptake value ratio biomarkers. Data used is tau PET regional 
measurements from 198 individuals from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative database, used for discovery, and 42 from the Mayo Clinic Alzheimer's 
Disease Research Center and Mayo Clinic Study of Aging (MCSA), used for external 
validation. Biomarkers are evaluated by calculating clinical trial sample size 
estimates for 80% power and 20% effect size. Secondary metrics are a measure of 
longitudinal consistency (standard deviation of linear mixed-effects model 
residuals), and separation between cognitive groups (t-statistic of the change 
over time due to being cognitively impaired). When applied to preclinical 
(secondary prevention with CU individuals) and clinical (treatment aimed at 
cognitively impaired individuals) trials on Alzheimer's disease, our data-driven 
framework BioDisCVR discovered ratio-based tau PET biomarkers vastly superior to 
previous work, both reducing measurement error and sample size estimates for 
hypothetical clinical trials. Our analysis suggests remarkable potential for 
patient benefit (reduced exposure to health risks associated with experimental 
drugs) and substantial cost savings, through accelerated trials and reduced 
sample sizes. Our study supports the leveraging of data-driven methods like 
BioDisCVR for clinical benefit, with the potential to positively impact drug 
development in Alzheimer's disease and beyond.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae438
PMCID: PMC11632366
PMID: 39664778

Conflict of interest statement: I.L.-S.: None. N.P.O. is a consultant for Queen 
Square Analytics Limited (UK).


58. Int J Biol Sci. 2024 Nov 4;20(15):5999-6017. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.103225. 
eCollection 2024.

Inhibition of miR-4763-3p expression activates the PI3K/mTOR/Bcl2 autophagy 
signaling pathway to ameliorate cognitive decline.

Qi W(1)(2), Ying Y(1)(2), Wu P(1), Dong N(1)(2)(3), Fu W(1), Liu Q(1), Ward 
N(4), Dong X(2), Zhao RC(1)(5)(6)(7), Wang J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Shanghai University, Shanghai, China.
(2)School of Medicine, Shanghai University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Jinan Microecological Biomedicine Shandong Laboratory, Jinan 250021, China.
(4)Banner Ocotillo Medical Center, 1405 S Alma School Rd, Chandler, AZ 85286, 
USA.
(5)Centre of Excellence in Tissue Engineering, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Beijing, China.
(6)Beijing Key Laboratory of New Drug Development and Clinical Trial of Stem 
Cell Therapy (BZ0381), Beijing, China.
(7)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

Cognitive decline and memory impairment are subsequently result in neuronal 
apoptosis and synaptic damage. Aberrant regulation of microRNAs has been 
implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and may play a 
pivotal role in the early stages of the disease. In this study, we identified 
the critical role of miR-4763-3p in AD pathogenesis, focusing on early-stage 
mild cognitive impairment (AD-MCI). Leveraging fluorescence in situ 
hybridization, we observed miR-4763-3p upregulation in AD hippocampal tissue, 
colocalizing with Aβ and Tau. Antagomir-mediated inhibition of miR-4763-3p 
ameliorated cognitive decline in AD-MCI mice. RNA-seq and functional assays 
revealed that miR-4763-3p targets ATP11A, and antagomir enhancing inward 
flipping of the "eat me" phosphatidylserine signal on the surface of neuronal 
cells, autophagy, and clearance of Aβ/lipofuscin, while reducing 
neuroinflammation and neuronal apoptosis. Mechanistically, miR-4763-3p modulates 
the PI3K/AKT/mTOR/Bcl2 pathway, thereby promoting neuronal autophagy and 
reducing apoptotic crosstalk. These findings underscore miR-4763-3p as a 
therapeutic target for AD-MCI, offering a novel strategy to enhance neuronal 
autophagy, alleviate inflammation, and improve cognitive function.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.103225
PMCID: PMC11628338
PMID: 39664587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


59. Front Public Health. 2024 Nov 27;12:1485807. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2024.1485807.
 eCollection 2024.

A meta-analysis of the efficacy of physical exercise interventions on activities 
of daily living in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

Xiao Y(#)(1), Fan Y(#)(2), Feng Z(#)(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Physical Education and Sports, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Department of Physical Education, Nanjing University of Science and 
Technology, Nanjing, China.
(3)China Athletics College, Beijing Sport University, Beijing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to systematically review published randomized 
controlled trials on the effects of physical exercise on activities of daily 
living (ADL) in Alzheimer's patients through meta-analysis, thereby synthesizing 
existing evidence to provide scientific intervention recommendations for 
exercise prescriptions in Alzheimer's patients.
METHODS: Based on strict literature inclusion and exclusion criteria, a 
systematic search was conducted in databases including PubMed and Web of Science 
from their inception to July 1, 2024. The Cochrane risk assessment tool was used 
to evaluate the design of randomized controlled trials. Studies reporting on 
physical exercise interventions for ADL in Alzheimer's patients were 
systematically identified. Subgroup analyses and meta-regression were performed 
to explore sources of heterogeneity.
RESULTS: Nineteen articles, for analysis, providing 27 randomized controlled 
trials (RCTs). A random-effects model was used to calculate the effect size and 
95% confidence interval for each independent study, and meta-analysis was 
performed using Stata 16.0 and RevMan 5.4 software. The results showed that 
physical exercise might significantly improve ADL in Alzheimer's patients (SMD = 
0.33, 95% CI: 0.12-0.54, I 2 = 81.7%). Sensitivity analysis confirmed the 
robustness of the results (p > 0.05). Egger's test did not reveal significant 
publication bias (p = 0.145). Samples were divided into different subgroups 
based on intervention content, duration, frequency, and session length. Subgroup 
analysis based on intervention characteristics showed that resistance training 
or aerobic exercise (SMD = 0.83, 95% CI: 0.60-1.05), long-term interventions (>6 
months, SMD = 0.31, 95% CI: 0.13-0.49), medium-frequency interventions (4-5 
times per week, SMD=0.39, 95% CI: 0.23-0.55), and short-duration training ( ≤ 30 
min, SMD = 0.96, 95% CI: 0.71-1.21) might be most effective in enhancing ADL in 
Alzheimer's patients. These improvements were not only statistically significant 
but also had substantial impact in clinical practice.
CONCLUSION: Resistance training or aerobic exercise lasting more than 6 months, 
4-5 times per week, and lasting no more than 30 min per session may be most 
effective in improving ADLs in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2024 Xiao, Fan and Feng.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2024.1485807
PMCID: PMC11631704
PMID: 39664530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


60. Front Neurosci. 2024 Nov 27;18:1460325. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1460325. 
eCollection 2024.

A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to evaluate 
pregabalin efficacy in the treatment of behavioral and psychological symptoms of 
dementia in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

Maleki L(1), Mohammadian F(2), Panahishokouh M(3), Mohebbi N(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Roozbeh Hospital, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Isfahan University of 
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(4)Research Center for Rational Use of Drugs, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Behavioral and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD) are common 
during Alzheimer's disease and cause severe problems for patients and their 
caregivers.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the therapeutic efficacy of Pregabalin in comparison with 
a placebo in treating BPSD in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) visiting 
the memory and cognition clinic of Roozbeh Psychiatric Hospital in Tehran, Iran.
METHODS: A 12-week double-blind, randomized comparison of Pregabalin and placebo 
treatments was conducted in 53 patients with DSM-V diagnosis of dementia of 
Alzheimer's type. They were randomly assigned to receive Pregabalin (doses: 50 
titrated up to 300 mg/day) or a placebo. Clinical response was evaluated using 
the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), and the Behavioral Pathology in AD Rating 
Scale (BEHAVE-AD) scores compared with baseline. Side effects were also recorded 
carefully.
RESULTS: Patients receiving Pregabalin had better outcomes in comparison with 
patients receiving a placebo regarding both NPI and BEHAVE-AD scores after 
12 weeks (p-value = 0.009 for NPI and p-value = 0.003 for BEHAVE-AD). There was 
also a statistically significant decrease in the treatment group depression 
sub-score regarding NPI and BEHAVE-AD (respectively, p-value =0.000, 0.003). The 
caregiver burden sub-score of the NPI test was also lower in patients receiving 
pregabalin (p-value = 0.000). There was no statistically significant difference 
between the occurrence of adverse effects between the two groups 
(p-value = 1.00).
CONCLUSION: Pregabalin at a dose of 300 mg/day was well tolerated and associated 
with reductions in the severity and frequency of behavioral symptoms in patients 
with AD. Pregabalin could be considered a favorable choice for treating BPSD in 
adults with mild to moderate stages of Alzheimer 's-type dementia, considering 
its befitting safety profile.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: https://www.irct.ir/trial/52750, identifier 
IRCT20201201049553N1.

Copyright © 2024 Maleki, Mohammadian, Panahishokouh and Mohebbi.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1460325
PMCID: PMC11632838
PMID: 39664445

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.61. Front Immunol. 2024 Nov 27;15:1455741. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1455741. 
eCollection 2024.

Broadening horizons: the multifaceted role of ferroptosis in breast cancer.

Ge A(1), Xiang W(2), Li Y(3), Zhao D(1), Chen J(4)(5)(6), Daga P(7), Dai 
CC(8)(9), Yang K(4)(10), Yan Y(4), Hao M(4), Zhang B(11), Xiao W(2).

Author information:
(1)The First Hospital of Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan, 
China.
(2)Department of Rheumatology, The First People's Hospital Changde City, 
Changde, Hunan, China.
(3)People's Hospital of Ningxiang City, Ningxiang, China.
(4)Psychosomatic Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry, Daqing Hospital of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Daqing, China.
(5)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, University of Louisville, 
Louisville, KY, United States.
(6)Tong Jiecheng Studio, Hunan University of Science and Technology, Xiangtan, 
China.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, 
United States.
(8)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Maryland School 
of Dentistry, Baltimore, MD, United States.
(9)Fischell Department of Bioengineering, A. James Clark School of Engineering, 
University of Maryland, College Park, MD, United States.
(10)Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(11)Hainan Normal University, Haikou, China.

Breast cancer poses a serious threat to women's health globally. Current 
radiotherapy and chemotherapy regimens can induce drug-resistance effects in 
cancer tissues, such as anti-apoptosis, anti-pyroptosis, and anti-necroptosis, 
leading to poor clinical outcomes in the treatment of breast cancer. Ferroptosis 
is a novel programmed cell death modality characterized by iron overload, 
excessive generation of reactive oxygen species, and membrane lipid 
peroxidation. The occurrence of ferroptosis results from the imbalance between 
intracellular peroxidation mechanisms (executive system) and antioxidant 
mechanisms (defensive system), specifically involving iron metabolism pathways, 
amino acid metabolism pathways, and lipid metabolism pathways. In recent years, 
it has been found that ferroptosis is associated with the progression of various 
diseases, including tumors, hypertension, diabetes, and Alzheimer's disease. 
Studies have confirmed that triggering ferroptosis in breast cancer cells can 
significantly inhibit cancer cell proliferation and invasion, and improve cancer 
cell sensitivity to radiotherapy and chemotherapy, making induction of 
ferroptosis a potential strategy for the treatment of breast cancer. This paper 
reviews the development of the concept of ferroptosis, the mechanisms of 
ferroptosis (including signaling pathways such as GSH-GPX4, FSP1-CoQ1, 
DHODH-CoQ10, and GCH1-BH4) in breast cancer disease, the latest research 
progress, and summarizes the research on ferroptosis in breast cancer disease 
within the framework of metabolism, reactive oxygen biology, and iron biology. 
The key regulatory factors and mechanisms of ferroptosis in breast cancer 
disease, as well as important concepts and significant open questions in the 
field of ferroptosis and related natural compounds, are introduced. It is hoped 
that future research will make further breakthroughs in the regulatory 
mechanisms of ferroptosis and the use of ferroptosis in treating breast cancer 
cells. Meanwhile, natural compounds may also become a new direction for 
potential drug development targeting ferroptosis in breast cancer treatment. 
This provides a theoretical basis and opens up a new pathway for research and 
the development of drugs for the prevention and treatment of breast cancer.

Copyright © 2024 Ge, Xiang, Li, Zhao, Chen, Daga, Dai, Yang, Yan, Hao, Zhang and 
Xiao.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1455741
PMCID: PMC11631881
PMID: 39664391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


62. Med Rev (2021). 2024 Oct 17;4(6):467-491. doi: 10.1515/mr-2023-0071.
eCollection  2024 Dec.

Biofluid biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease: past, present, and future.

An C(1), Cai H(1), Ren Z(1), Fu X(1), Quan S(1), Jia L(1).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Clinical Research Center 
for Geriatric Diseases, Beijing, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a gradually progressive neurodegenerative disease 
with tremendous social and economic burden. Therefore, early and accurate 
diagnosis is imperative for effective treatment or prevention of the disease. 
Cerebrospinal fluid and blood biomarkers emerge as favorable diagnostic tools 
due to their relative accessibility and potential for widespread clinical use. 
This review focuses on the AT(N) biomarker system, which includes biomarkers 
reflecting AD core pathologies, amyloid deposition, and pathological tau, as 
well as neurodegeneration. Novel biomarkers associated with 
inflammation/immunity, synaptic dysfunction, vascular pathology, and 
α-synucleinopathy, which might contribute to either the pathogenesis or the 
clinical progression of AD, have also been discussed. Other emerging candidates 
including non-coding RNAs, metabolites, and extracellular vesicle-based markers 
have also enriched the biofluid biomarker landscape for AD. Moreover, the review 
discusses the current challenges of biofluid biomarkers in AD diagnosis and 
offers insights into the prospective future development.

© 2024 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/mr-2023-0071
PMCID: PMC11629312
PMID: 39664082

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Authors state no conflict 
of interest.


63. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2025 Mar;45(3):381-395. doi: 
10.1177/0271678X241305899. Epub 2024 Dec 12.

Oxidative stress and chronic cerebral hypoperfusion: An overview from 
preclinical rodent models.

Kimura S(1)(2), Iwata M(1)(3), Takase H(1), Lo EH(1), Arai K(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuroprotection Research Laboratories, Departments of Radiology and 
Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(2)Life Science Research Center, Gifu University, Gifu, Japan.
(3)Department of Developmental Neuroscience, Tohoku University School of 
Medicine, Sendai, Japan.

Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH) is an important clinical condition 
characterized by a prolonged reduction in cerebral blood flow that contributes 
to several neurodegenerative diseases, including vascular dementia and 
Alzheimer's disease. A number of rodent models of CCH have been developed that 
mimic the human pathological conditions of reduced cerebral perfusion. These 
models have been instrumental in elucidating the molecular and cellular 
mechanisms involved in CCH-induced brain damage. Oxidative stress is induced by 
perturbations in cellular pathways caused by CCH, including mitochondrial 
dysfunction, ion pump dysfunction, and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) depletion. 
The deleterious stress leads to the accumulation of reactive oxygen species 
(ROS) and exacerbates damage to neuronal structures, significantly impairing 
cognitive function. Among the various therapeutic strategies being evaluated, 
edaravone, a potent antioxidant, is emerging as a promising drug due to its 
neuroprotective properties against oxidative stress. Initially approved for use 
in ischemic stroke, research using rodent CCH models has shown that edaravone 
has significant efficacy in scavenging free radicals and ameliorating oxidative 
stress-induced neuronal damage under CCH conditions. This mini-review summarizes 
the current literature on the rodent models of CCH and then discusses the 
therapeutic potential of edaravone to reduce neuronal and vascular damage caused 
by CCH-induced oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.1177/0271678X241305899
PMCID: PMC11635795
PMID: 39663901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


64. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Jan 1;16(1):77-84. doi: 10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00725.
 Epub 2024 Dec 11.

Discovery of Dual Targeting GSK-3β/HIV-1 Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors as 
Neuroprotective Antiviral Agents.

Jones T(1), Raman R(1), Puhl AC(1), Lane TR(1), Riabova O(2), Kazakova E(2), 
Makarov V(2), Ekins S(1).

Author information:
(1)Collaborations Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 840 Main Campus Drive, Lab 3510, 
Raleigh, North Carolina 27606, United States.
(2)Research Center of Biotechnology RAS, Leninsky Prospekt 33-2, Moscow 119071, 
Russia.

Glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β or GSK-3B) is a serine-threonine kinase 
involved in various pathways and cellular processes. Alteration in GSK-3β 
activity is associated with several neurological diseases including Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), bipolar disorder, and rare diseases like Rett syndrome. GSK-3β is 
also implicated in HIV-associated dementia (HAD), as it is upregulated in 
HIV-1-infected cells and plays a role in neuronal dysfunction. Therefore, a 
small molecule that can inhibit both GSK-3β and HIV-1 reverse transcriptase 
could offer neuroprotective therapy for patients suffering from HIV-1. Despite 
this, there are no known GSK-3β inhibitors currently approved, thus prompting us 
to screen our panel of various antiviral compounds against this kinase to better 
understand its structure-activity relationship. We show for the first time that 
the approved drugs, etravirine and rilpivirine, possess GSK-3β activity (IC50 
619 nM and 502 nM, respectively). We have also identified 3 lead molecules 
exhibiting IC50 < 1 μM (11726169, 12326205, and 12326207), with compound 
11726169 being the most potent in vitro GSK-3β inhibitor (IC50 = 12.1 nM). We 
also describe the generation of machine learning models for GSK-3β inhibition 
and their validation with our data as an external test set and propose their use 
for the future optimization of such inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00725
PMCID: PMC12107553
PMID: 39663760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST S.E. is owner, and R.R, 
A.P., T.J., and T.R.L. are employees of Collaborations Pharmaceuticals, Inc. All 
others have no competing interests.


65. Network. 2024 Dec 11:1-41. doi: 10.1080/0954898X.2024.2435491. Online ahead
of  print.

ViTBayesianNet: An adaptive deep bayesian network-aided alzheimer disease 
detection framework with vision transformer-based residual densenet for feature 
extraction using MRI images.

Mohan R(1), Arunachalam R(2), Verma N(3), Mali S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Paavai Engineering College 
(Autonomous), Namakkal, Tamilnadu, India.
(2)Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Saveetha School of 
Engineering, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Chennai, 
Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Department of Information Technology, Vivekananda Institute of Professional 
Studies, Ranikhet, India.
(4)Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering, Ramrao Adik 
Institute of Technology, D.Y. Patil Deemed University Nerul, Navi Mumbai, 
Maharashtra, India.

One of the most familiar types of disease is Alzheimer's disease (AD) and it 
mainly impacts people over the age limit of 60. AD causes irreversible brain 
damage in humans. It is difficult to recognize the various stages of AD, hence 
advanced deep learning methods are suggested for recognizing AD in its initial 
stages. In this experiment, an effective deep model-based AD detection approach 
is introduced to provide effective treatment to the patient. Initially, an 
essential MRI is collected from the benchmark resources. After that, the 
gathered MRIs are provided as input to the feature extraction phase. Also, the 
important features in the input image are extracted by Vision Transformer-based 
Residual DenseNet (ViT-ResDenseNet). Later, the retrieved features are applied 
to the Alzheimer's detection stage. In this phase, AD is detected using an 
Adaptive Deep Bayesian Network (Ada-DBN). Additionally, the attributes of 
Ada-DBN are optimized with the help of Enhanced Golf Optimization Algorithm 
(EGOA). So, the implemented Alzheimer's detection model accomplishes relatively 
higher reliability than existing techniques. The numerical results of the 
suggested framework obtained an accuracy value of 96.35 which is greater than 
the 91.08, 91.95, and 93.95 attained by the EfficientNet-B2, TF- CNN, and 
ViT-GRU, respectively.

DOI: 10.1080/0954898X.2024.2435491
PMID: 39663578


66. Chem Res Toxicol. 2025 Jan 20;38(1):58-72. doi:
10.1021/acs.chemrestox.4c00279.  Epub 2024 Dec 11.

CYP3A4-Mediated Bioactivation of the β-Amyloid Precursor Protein-Cleaving Enzyme 
1 Inhibitor JNJ-54861911 Results in Redox-Neutral Addition of Glutathione via 
Catalysis by Glutathione S-Transferase α1, Identified as the Major Target 
Protein in Human Hepatocytes.

Leclercq L(1), de Vries R(2), Koppen V(3), Verboven P(1), Cuyckens F(1), Wynant 
I(1), Vermeulen WAA(2), Naisbitt D(4), Ford M(4), Meng X(4), Sakamoto S(5), 
Fukushima T(6), Snoeys J(1).

Author information:
(1)Translational Pharmacokinetics, Pharmacodynamics and Investigative 
Toxicology, Janssen Research & Development, LLC, 2340 Beerse, Belgium.
(2)Advanced Material Characterization & Investigations (AMCI), Janssen Research 
& Development, LLC, 2340 Beerse, Belgium.
(3)Chemical and Pharmaceutical Development & Supply, Analytical Development, 
Janssen Research & Development, LLC, 2340 Beerse, Belgium.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of Liverpool, L69 3GE 
Liverpool, U.K.
(5)DMPK & Analytical Sciences 2, Laboratory for Drug Discovery and Development, 
Shionogi, Toyonaka City 5610825, Osaka, Japan.
(6)Non-Clinical Safety, Laboratory for Drug Discovery and Development, Shionogi, 
Toyonaka City 6510825, Osaka, Japan.

The β-amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) inhibitor 
JNJ-54861911, a candidate for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, was 
withdrawn from clinical trials due to drug-induced liver injury (DILI). This 
paper describes our investigation of the metabolism of JNJ-54861911 to 
understand the potential contribution to the observed DILI. In human 
hepatocytes, JNJ-54861911 is metabolized by CYP450 3A4 to a reactive 
intermediate (RI), which undergoes glutathione (GSH) addition at C6 of the 
2-amino-4-methyl-1,3-thiazin-4-yl moiety via glutathione S-transferase α1 
(GSTA1) catalysis. Despite the preponderant role of CYP3A4 as an enabler, the 
adduct has the same level of oxidation as that of JNJ-54861911. The exact 
mechanism of RI formation might involve a sulfoxide (with further reduction) or 
tautomeric forms of JNJ-54861911 bearing a reactive thiazinium cation activating 
both the C2 and C6 positions. The cell pellet from the human hepatocyte 
incubated with 14C-JNJ-54861911 was analyzed via gel electrophoresis, resulting 
in the identification of a major protein adduct on GSTA1, a cross-link resulting 
from the addition of GSH and lysine 120 to JNJ-54861911, most likely on position 
C6 and on the nitrile, respectively. Ultimately, this major adduct might only 
account for 15-25% of the total covalent binding (CVB). Other important 
contributors to CVB might exist, like the bioactivation of the major 
diaminothiazine metabolite (DIAT). The level of covalent binding (CVB) burden 
(fraction of the dose resulting in CVB) is clearly below 1 mg/day, with a low 
daily dose of 25 mg. Despite this limited magnitude of CVB, it could still 
contribute to the liver enzyme elevations observed in approximately 20% of the 
patients and to the few cases of severe immune-mediated DILI. The latter could 
occur through a haptenization phenomenon and/or by inducing stress in 
hepatocytes. Such stress may activate an innate immune response, which, in turn, 
promotes the adaptive immune response.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrestox.4c00279
PMID: 39662968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Int J Pharm. 2025 Jan 25;669:125069. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2024.125069. Epub
 2024 Dec 9.

Present insights into the progress in gene therapy delivery systems for central 
nervous system diseases.

Yang ZF(1), Jiang XC(2), Gao JQ(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Drug Delivery and Release Systems, College 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Drug Delivery and Release Systems, College 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, China.. 
Electronic address: 11419014@zju.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Drug Delivery and Release Systems, College 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, China.. 
Electronic address: gaojianqing@zju.edu.cn.

Central nervous system (CNS) diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
Parkinson's disease (PD), spinal cord injury (SCI), and ischemic strokes and 
certain rare diseases, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and ataxia, 
present significant obstacles to treatment using conventional molecular 
pharmaceuticals. Gene therapy, with its ability to target previously 
"undruggable" proteins with high specificity and safety, is increasingly 
utilized in both preclinical and clinical research for CNS ailments. As our 
comprehension of the pathophysiology of these conditions deepens, gene therapy 
stands out as a versatile and promising strategy with the potential to both 
prevent and treat these diseases. Despite the remarkable progress in refining 
and enhancing the structural design of gene therapy agents, substantial 
obstacles persist in their effective and safe delivery within living systems. To 
surmount these obstacles, a diverse array of gene delivery systems has been 
devised and continuously improved. Notably, Adeno-Associated Virus (AAVs)-based 
viral gene vectors and lipid-based nanocarriers have each advanced the in vivo 
delivery of gene therapies to various extents. This review aims to concisely 
summarize the pathophysiological foundations of CNS diseases and to shed light 
on the latest advancements in gene delivery vector technologies. It discusses 
the primary categories of these vectors, their respective advantages and 
limitations, and their specialized uses in the context of gene therapy delivery.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2024.125069
PMID: 39662855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


68. Ageing Res Rev. 2025 Feb;104:102637. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102637. Epub
2024  Dec 9.

The complex relationship between gut microbiota and Alzheimer's disease: A 
systematic review.

Zhou XP(1), Sun LB(1), Liu WH(1), Zhu WM(1), Li LC(1), Song XY(2), Xing JP(3), 
Gao SH(4).

Author information:
(1)China-Japan Union Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130000, PR 
China.
(2)The Chinese University of Hong Kong, New Territories 999077, Hong Kong.
(3)China-Japan Union Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130000, PR 
China. Electronic address: xingjp@jlu.edu.cn.
(4)China-Japan Union Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130000, PR 
China. Electronic address: shgao@jlu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, degenerative disorder of the central 
nervous system. Despite extensive research conducted on this disorder, its 
precise pathogenesis remains unclear. In recent years, the microbiota-gut-brain 
axis has attracted considerable attention within the field of AD. The gut 
microbiota communicates bidirectionally with the central nervous system through 
the gut-brain axis, and alterations in its structure and function can influence 
the progression of AD. Consequently, regulating the gut microbiota to mitigate 
the progression of AD has emerged as a novel therapeutic approach. Currently, 
numerous studies concentrate on the intrinsic relationship between the 
microbiota-gut-brain axis and AD. In this paper, we summarize the multifaceted 
role of the gut microbiota in AD and present detailed therapeutic strategies 
targeting the gut microbiota, including the treatment of AD with Traditional 
Chinese Medicine (TCM), which has garnered increasing attention in recent years. 
Finally, we discuss potential therapeutic strategies for modulating the gut 
microbiota to alleviate the progression of AD, the current challenges in this 
area of research, and provide an outlook on future research directions in this 
field.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102637
PMID: 39662839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


69. Mitochondrion. 2025 Mar;81:102000. doi: 10.1016/j.mito.2024.102000. Epub 2024
 Dec 9.

Mitochondria-targeted nanotherapeutics: A new frontier in neurodegenerative 
disease treatment.

Keethedeth N(1), Anantha Shenoi R(2).

Author information:
(1)Inter-University Centre for Biomedical Research and Super Speciality 
Hospital, Thalappady, Rubber Board P.O, Kottayam, 686009 Kerala, India. 
Electronic address: nknishad514@gmail.com.
(2)Inter-University Centre for Biomedical Research and Super Speciality 
Hospital, Thalappady, Rubber Board P.O, Kottayam, 686009 Kerala, India. 
Electronic address: rajeshananthashenoi@mgu.ac.in.

Mitochondria are the seat of cellular energy and play key roles in regulating 
several cellular processes such as oxidative phosphorylation, respiration, 
calcium homeostasis and apoptotic pathways. Mitochondrial dysfunction results in 
error in oxidative phosphorylation, redox imbalance, mitochondrial DNA 
mutations, and disturbances in mitochondrial dynamics, all of which can lead to 
several metabolic and degenerative diseases. A plethora of studies have provided 
evidence for the involvement of mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, 
Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Hence mitochondria have 
been used as possible therapeutic targets in the regulation of neurodegenerative 
diseases. However, the double membranous structure of mitochondria poses an 
additional barrier to most drugs even if they are able to cross the plasma 
membrane. Most of the drugs acting on mitochondria also required very high doses 
to exhibit the desired mitochondrial accumulation and therapeutic effect which 
in-turn result in toxic effects. Mitochondrial targeting has been improved by 
direct conjugation of drugs to mitochondriotropic molecules like dequalinium 
(DQA) and triphenyl phosphonium (TPP) cations. But being cationic in nature, 
these molecules also exhibit toxicity at higher doses. In order to further 
improve the mitochondrial localization with minimal toxicity, TPP was conjugated 
with various nanomaterials like liposomes. inorganic nanoparticles, polymeric 
nanoparticles, micelles and dendrimers. This review provides an overview of the 
role of mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases and various 
nanotherapeutic strategies for efficient targeting of mitochondria-acting drugs 
in these diseases.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. and Mitochondria Research Society. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mito.2024.102000
PMID: 39662651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


70. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Jan;285:138598. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.138598.  Epub 2024 Dec 9.

Visual screening of butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors by a cellulose membrane 
biosensor with amide-bonded immobilization of butyrylcholinesterase in a 
solid-phase enzyme-catalyzed reaction.

Gong M(1), Yu W(1), Ma J(1), Liu JR(2), Sun Q(3), Luo X(4), Zhang MZ(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Hubei Key Laboratory of 
Novel Reactor and Green Chemical Technology, Wuhan Institute of Technology, 
Wuhan 430205, China.
(2)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Pesticide Science, College of Sciences, Nanjing 
Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China.
(3)School of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Hubei Key Laboratory of 
Novel Reactor and Green Chemical Technology, Wuhan Institute of Technology, 
Wuhan 430205, China. Electronic address: qisun@wit.edu.cn.
(4)School of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Hubei Key Laboratory of 
Novel Reactor and Green Chemical Technology, Wuhan Institute of Technology, 
Wuhan 430205, China. Electronic address: xgluo@wit.edu.cn.
(5)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Pesticide Science, College of Sciences, Nanjing 
Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China. Electronic address: 
mzzhang@njau.edu.cn.

The rapid discovery of highly active butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitors is 
key to the treatment of the late stages of Alzheimer's disease. Herein, a 
colorimetric cellulose membrane (CM)-based biosensor was developed. The CM was 
employed as a carrier, which can be immobilized with the BChE and 
5,5'-dithio-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB) to prepare the biosensor for the 
solid-phase enzyme-catalyzed reaction. Specifically, the CM was oxidized to the 
oxidized cellulose membrane (OCM), which can further covalently bind the BChE to 
prepare the BChE-immobilized cellulose membrane (BCM). Then, the DTNB was 
adsorbed to the BCM to prepare the BDCM biosensor. The BDCM biosensor can 
visually detect S-butyrylthiocholine iodide at the yellow light signal with 
several characters, including sensitivity (LOD 1.56 μM), affinity 
(Km = 140.48 ± 5.42 μM), stability (over 1 month), via the BChE-catalyzed 
solid-phase reaction. Furthermore, the BDCM biosensor was applied to screen and 
determine the specific commercial BChE inhibitors tacrine and rivastigmine, with 
the IC50 values of 30.99 ± 12.20 nM and 2.02 ± 0.13 μM, respectively, from 13 
different commercial inhibitors. This work provided a new method of visual BChE 
inhibitor screening and a useful strategy for the design of enzyme-based 
immobilization technology cellulose membrane biosensors.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.138598
PMID: 39662542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


71. Neuroscience. 2025 Jan 26;565:499-518. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.11.078.  Epub 2024 Dec 9.

"Current and emerging drug therapies in Alzheimer's disease: A 
pathophysiological Perspective".

Aparajita A(1), Jain U(1), Srivastava P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences, Institute of Management Studies Ghaziabad 
9(University Courses Campus), NH09, Adhyatmik Nagar, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, 
India.
(2)Department of Biosciences, Institute of Management Studies Ghaziabad 
9(University Courses Campus), NH09, Adhyatmik Nagar, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, 
India. Electronic address: priyanka.srivastava@imsuc.ac.in.

The analytical and experimental investigation of several targets and biomarkers 
that help in explaining significant cognitive deficits, covering drug 
development and precision medicine aimed at different chronic neurodegenerative 
conditions such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease, synaptic 
dysfunction, brain damage from neuronal apoptosis, and other disease 
pathologies; this served as the foundation for all phase studies. The focus of 
current therapeutic approaches is on developing humanized antibodies, agonist 
and antagonist drugs, receptors, signaling molecules, major targeted 
drug-metabolizing enzymes, and other metabolites to treat neurodegeneration in 
the AD brain brought on by tau hyperphosphorylation, amyloid plagues, or other 
cholinergic effects. The five A's-amnesia, agnosia, aphasia, apraxia, and 
anomia-are the typical symptoms associated with AD. While the main goal of drug 
therapeutics studies is modified amino acids acting as pro-drugs, 
pharmacokinetics studies and trends in evaluating drug-drug interactions focus 
on interactions between drugs and antibodies, drugs and therapeutic biologics 
like metabolites, herbs, interleukin-based, and gene silencing mechanism-based. 
Studies on the biotransformation of xenobiotic compounds and the metabolism of 
exogenous and endogenous substances are conducted under Phase I, Phase II, and 
Phase III trials because the pivotal pharmacokinetic properties of drugs, such 
as absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME), aid in 
understanding variations in the crucial improvement of various target drugs. 
This review also highlights the developments in soon-to-be genetically created 
targeted medications that may serve as ground-breaking treatments for 
cholinergic illnesses in the brains of AD patients and other neurodegenerative 
conditions.

Copyright © 2024 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.11.078
PMID: 39662528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


72. Brain. 2025 Jun 3;148(6):1936-1949. doi: 10.1093/brain/awae399.

Optimizing treatment of cardiovascular risk factors in cerebral small vessel 
disease using genetics.

Koohi F(1), Harshfield EL(1), Gill D(2), Ge W(1), Burgess S(3), Markus HS(1).

Author information:
(1)Stroke Research Group, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London W12 0BZ, UK.
(3)MRC Biostatistics Unit, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 0SR, UK.

Cerebral small vessel disease (cSVD) causes lacunar stroke (LS) and 
intracerebral haemorrhage and is the most common pathology underlying vascular 
dementia. However, there are few trials examining whether treatment of 
conventional cardiovascular risk factors reduces stroke risk in cSVD, as opposed 
to stroke as a whole. We used Mendelian randomization techniques to investigate 
which risk factors are causally related to cSVD and to evaluate whether specific 
drugs might be beneficial in cSVD prevention. We identified genetic proxies for 
blood pressure traits, lipids, glycaemic markers, anthropometry measures, 
smoking, alcohol consumption and physical activity from large-scale genome-wide 
association studies of European ancestry. We also selected genetic variants as 
proxies for drug target perturbation in hypertension, dyslipidaemia, 
hyperglycaemia and obesity. Mendelian randomization was performed to assess 
their associations with LS from the GIGASTROKE Consortium (n = 6811) and in a 
sensitivity analysis in a cohort of patients with MRI-confirmed LS (n = 3306). 
We also investigated associations with three neuroimaging features of cSVD, 
namely, white matter hyperintensities (n = 55 291), fractional anisotropy (n = 
36 460) and mean diffusivity (n = 36 012). Genetic predisposition to higher 
systolic and diastolic blood pressure was associated with LS and cSVD imaging 
markers. Genetically predicted liability to diabetes, obesity, smoking, higher 
triglyceride levels and the ratio of triglycerides to high-density lipoprotein 
also showed detrimental associations with LS risk, whereas genetic 
predisposition to higher high-density lipoprotein concentrations and 
moderate-to-vigorous physical activity showed protective associations. 
Genetically proxied blood pressure lowering through calcium channel blockers was 
associated with cSVD imaging markers, whereas genetically proxied high-density 
lipoprotein raising through cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitors, 
triglyceride lowering through lipoprotein lipase and weight lowering through 
gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor were associated with lower risk of LS. 
Our findings highlight the importance of some conventional cardiovascular risk 
factors, including blood pressure and body mass index, in cSVD, but not others, 
e.g. low-density lipoprotein. The findings also demonstrate the potential 
beneficial effects of calcium channel blockers on cSVD imaging markers and 
cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitors, lipoprotein lipase enhancement 
and gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor obesity-targeted drugs on LS. They 
provide useful information for initiating future clinical trials examining 
secondary prevention strategies in cSVD.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awae399
PMCID: PMC7617411
PMID: 39661645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests.


73. Neurochem Res. 2024 Dec 11;50(1):54. doi: 10.1007/s11064-024-04312-8.

Neuroprotective Assessment of Nutraceutical (Betanin) in Neuroblastoma Cell Line 
SHSY-5Y: An in-Vitro and in-Silico Approach.

Natarajan K(1), Chandrasekaran R(2), Sundararaj R(3)(4), Joseph J(1), Asaithambi 
K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Karpagam Academy of Higher Education, 
Coimbatore, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Karpagam Academy of Higher Education, 
Coimbatore, India. kuberan87@gmail.com.
(3)Centre for Drug Discovery, Department of Biochemistry, Karpagam Academy of 
Higher Education, Coimbatore, 641 021, India.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Science and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 
China.
(5)Division of Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences, JSS Academy of Higher 
Education and Research, Ooty Campus, Ooty, India.

The cognitive dysfunction in the brain cause severe pathological consequences 
such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease. The current treatments 
are cost expensive and also cause negative side effects. Therefore it is 
inevitable to develop natural phyto-compounds as a drug like molecules to treat 
neurodegenerative diseases. In this context, we have assayed the neuroprotective 
effects of betanin, an indole derivative, in the neuroblastoma cell line SHSY-5Y 
cells. The neuroprotective effect was investigated in the β-amyloid (Aβ) - 
induced SHSY-5Y cells; betanin (25 µg) protected the SHSY-5Y cells from the 
toxic effects and maintained the cell viability. Moreover, the acridine orange 
and ethidum Bromide staining decipher that treatment of betanin in the 
Aβ-induced SHSY-5Y cells maintain the cell viablity sustainably. The Reactive 
Oxygen Species (ROS) assay infers that betanin quenches the generation of free 
radicals progressively in the Aβ-induced SHSY-5Y cells. In addition, the 
autophagy determination by flow cytometry revealed that betanin induces 
autophagy to remove the neurodegenerated cells. Further, we examined the docking 
and simulation patterns with the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), TNF-α 
converting enzyme (TACE), glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GK3), and 
acetylcholinesterase enzymes (AChE) and amyloid precursor protein (APP). The 
insilico docking analysis denotes that betanin had a significant docking score 
with the target molecules. Thus, from the invitro and insilico studies, betanin 
strongly inhibit the toxic effects of Aβand protect the cells from degeneration.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-024-04312-8
PMID: 39661296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Not Applicable. 
Competing Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


74. Cell Mol Neurobiol. 2024 Dec 11;45(1):4. doi: 10.1007/s10571-024-01521-1.

Exploring the Neuroprotective Effects of Rufinamide in a Streptozotocin-Induced 
Dementia Model.

Kaur D(1), Grewal AK(1), Fouad D(2), Kumar A(1), Singh V(3), Alexiou A(4)(5), 
Papadakis M(6), Batiha GE(7), Welson NN(8), Singh TG(9).

Author information:
(1)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, India.
(2)Department of Zoology, College of Science, King Saud University, PO Box 
22452, 11495, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technology, Maharaja Ranjit Singh 
Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, Punjab, India.
(4)University Centre for Research & Development, Chandigarh University, Mohali, 
Punjab, India.
(5)Department of Research & Development, Funogen, 11741, Athens, Greece.
(6)Department of Surgery II, University Hospital Witten-Herdecke, University of 
Witten-Herdecke, Heusnerstrasse 40, 42283, Wuppertal, Germany. 
drmariospapadakis@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Damanhour University, Damanhour, 22511, AlBeheira, Egypt.
(8)Department of Forensic Medicine and Clinical Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Beni-Suef University, Beni Suef, 62511, Egypt.
(9)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, India. 
gurjeet.singh@chitkara.edu.in.

Due to the complex pathophysiology of AD (Alzheimer's Disease), there are 
currently no effective clinical treatments available, except for 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. However, CREB (cyclic AMP-responsive element 
binding protein) has been identified as the critical factor for the 
transcription in memory formation. Understanding the effect of potential drugs 
on the CREB pathway could lead to the development of new therapeutic molecules. 
Rufinamide has shown promise in improving memory in animal models, and these 
effects may be associated with modulation of the CREB pathway, however, this has 
not been previously reported. Thus, the present study aimed to determine the 
involvement of the CREB pathway in the cognitive improvement effects of 
rufinamide in STZ (streptozotocin) induced mouse model of dementia. 
Administration of STZ [3 mg/kg, i.c.v. (intracerebroventricular) bilaterally] 
significantly impaired cognitive performance in step-down passive avoidance and 
Morris water maze tests in animals, reduced brain endogenous antioxidant levels 
(GSH, superoxide dismutase, and catalase), and increased marker of brain 
oxidative stress [TBARS (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances)] and 
inflammation [IL-1β (Interleukin-1 beta), IL-6 (Interleukin-6), TNF-α (Tumor 
necrosis factor alpha) and NF-κB (Nuclear factor kappa B)], along with 
neurodegeneration. These effects were markedly reversed by rufinamide (50 and 
100 mg/kg) when administered to STZ animals. However, the pre-treatment with the 
CREB inhibitor (666-15) in STZ and rufinamide-administered animals neutralized 
the beneficial influence of rufinamide. Our data suggest that rufinamide, acting 
via CREB signaling, reduced oxidative stress and inflammatory markers while 
elevating anti-oxidant levels. Our study has established that rufinamide may act 
through CREB signaling in an investigational AD model, which could be crucial 
for developing new treatments beneficial in progressive neurological disorders.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10571-024-01521-1
PMCID: PMC11634951
PMID: 39661258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose. Ethical 
Approval: The experiments followed the international guidelines for animal care 
and handling. The study was performed in accordance with the guidelines of the 
Committee for Control and Supervision of Experimentation on Animals (CCSEA), 
Government of India on animal experimentation. Consent to Participate: Not 
applicable. Consent to Publish: Not applicable.


75. J Agric Food Chem. 2024 Dec 25;72(51):28294-28304. doi: 
10.1021/acs.jafc.4c07659. Epub 2024 Dec 11.

Homoplantaginin Antagonizes N-Methyl-d-aspartate Receptor and Extracellular 
Signal-Regulated Kinase Signaling in Aβ Oligomers-Induced 
Neuropathology/Toxicity.

Chen TY(1), Chen YR(2), Hsu ML(1), Liao YT(1), Wu CH(1), Yao CA(3), Yang WC(4), 
Lin W(2), Lin Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei 116325, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Chemistry, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei 116325, 
Taiwan.
(3)Department of Family Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei 
100225, Taiwan.
(4)Agricultural Biotechnology Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, 
Taiwan.

Extracts from plants/herbals are great resources of drugs and nutrients. 
Baicalein, a component present in Scutellaria baicalensis, was previously found 
to alleviate the abnormal depolarization brought about by Aβ oligomers. We 
extended this promising outcome by screening baicalein derivatives, and a 
natural compound named homoplantaginin was pinpointed. In this study, we aimed 
to investigate the effects of homoplantaginin on animal behavior and explore its 
neuronal functioning/mechanism. In behavior tests, impairments of novel object 
recognition and of spatial learning/memory were reversed by homoplantaginin in a 
J20 Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse model. Utilizing primary glutamatergic 
neurons, homoplantaginin was found to prevent the Aβ oligomer-induced increase 
in ERK phosphorylation. Furthermore, homoplantaginin inhibits both AMPA-insult 
and NMDA-insult depolarization; this was assessed using DiBAC4(3), a membrane 
potential sensitive dye. Finally, homoplantaginin blocks both Aβ 
oligomer-induced and NMDA-induced calcium influx, which was assessed by 
intracellular calcium measurement using Fura2/AM. Interestingly, homoplantaginin 
immediately blunts the steady state calcium influx caused by NMDA. Taken 
together, homoplantaginin is capable of inhibiting Aβ oligomer-induced 
pathophysiology, in particular at the receptor level. This pure compound has 
great potential to be developed as a clinical therapeutic drug.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.4c07659
PMID: 39661093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Aging Ment Health. 2025 Jun;29(6):1028-1038. doi:
10.1080/13607863.2024.2439547.  Epub 2024 Dec 11.

Leaders at Italian Alzheimer's Cafés addressing ethical issues: from advocacy 
response against human trafficking to Dolcezza approach with persons living with 
dementia.

Dryjanska L(1)(2), Giua R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Asbury University, Wilmore, KY, USA.
(2)Institute of Psychology, University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski, Warsaw, 
Poland.
(3)Alzheimer's Impact Movement, Washington D.C., USA.

OBJECTIVES: This article features results of a qualitative research conducted 
with twenty-nine men and women responsible for Alzheimer's cafés in Italy, on 
the topic of ethical issues in dementia care. The goal was to identify the 
sources of moral distress for caregivers, exploring some bottom-up solutions 
that have been implemented shared with others in informal settings.
METHOD: During the in-depth interviews participants shared about challenges and 
opportunities related to dementia care and ethics, informed by the symbolic 
interactionist approach to the theory of social representations.
RESULTS: The analysis of interviews resulted in identification of six main 
themes, each with some sub-themes: awareness, personhood, social connectedness, 
isolation, access, and institutional dimension.
CONCLUSION: The results pointed out the importance of culturally appropriate 
approach and advocacy for tackling ethical issues, especially in the light of 
morally wrong egregious abuse of persons with dementia (as related by 
participants), which can be classified as benefits trafficking, a form of human 
trafficking.

DOI: 10.1080/13607863.2024.2439547
PMID: 39660580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(4):1017-1026. doi: 10.1177/13872877241295361. 
Epub 2024 Dec 11.

Interleukin-4 promotes the clearance of amyloid-β by monocyte through enhancing 
the recognition and intracellular processing of amyloid-β.

Ji YF(1), Wang YJ(2), Chen SH(1), Cheng Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Nanchong Central Hospital, The Second Clinical 
Medical College, North Sichuan Medical University, Nanchong, Sichuan, China.
(2)Department of Neurology and Centre for Clinical Neuroscience, Daping 
Hospital, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

Erratum in
    J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Mar;104(1):294. doi: 10.1177/13872877251316078.

BACKGROUND: Impaired clearance of amyloid-β protein (Aβ) in the peripheral 
system is a crucial event in the pathogenesis of sporadic Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Dysfunctional monocytes with deficient clearance of Aβ and increased 
secretion of pro-inflammatory factors in the periphery are considered to 
contribute to AD development. Multiple studies suggest that IL-4 can inhibit the 
inflammatory response and enhance the expression and activity of cathepsin 
protease associated with intracellular clearance of Aβ by monocytes.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of interleukin-4 (IL-4) on Aβ clearance 
and inflammatory response of monocytes in vitro.
METHODS: In this study, flow cytometry, confocal microscopy and ELISA techniques 
were used for measurement of Aβ clearance and its related mechanisms of 
monocytes.
RESULTS: We found that the mean intracellular content and uptake ratios of Aβ42 
in total monocytes, as well as in the CD14 + CD16- subset, were enhanced by 
IL-4, concomitant with the degradation of Aβ42 by monocytes. And IL-4 treatment 
also increased expression of scavenger receptor CD36 and Macrophage scavenger 
receptor 1 (MSR1) on monocytes. It was shown that IL-4 increased the Aβ 
immunoreactive area within lysosomal markers, including early endosome antigen 1 
(EEA1), lysosome-associated membrane glycoprotein 1 and 2 (LAMP1 and 2) and Aβ 
degradative enzymes cathepsin B and S in monocytes, but reduced secretion of 
tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interferon-γ (IFN-γ) 
by monocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study supports the role of IL-4 in regulating Aβ clearance and 
inflammatory response by monocytes, suggesting that IL-4 may have therapeutic 
potential for AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241295361
PMID: 39660534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


78. Stroke. 2025 Jan;56(1):e30-e38. doi: 10.1161/STR.0000000000000480. Epub 2024
Dec  11.

Vascular Neurology Considerations for Antiamyloid Immunotherapy: A Science 
Advisory From the American Heart Association.

Greenberg SM, Aparicio HJ, Furie KL, Goyal MS, Hinman JD, Kozberg M, Leonard A, 
Fisher MJ; American Heart Association Stroke Council; Council on Cardiovascular 
and Stroke Nursing; and Council on Clinical Cardiology.

Antibodies directed at the amyloid-β peptide offer the prospect of 
disease-modifying therapy for early-stage Alzheimer disease but also carry the 
risk of brain edema or bleeding events, collectively designated amyloid-related 
imaging abnormalities. Introduction of the antiamyloid immunotherapies into 
practice is therefore likely to present a new set of questions for clinicians 
treating patients with cerebrovascular disease: Which manifestations of 
cerebrovascular disease should preclude, or permit, antibody treatment? Is it 
safe to prescribe amyloid immunotherapies to individuals who require 
antithrombotic treatment, or to administer thrombolysis to antibody-treated 
individuals with acute stroke? How should severe amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities be managed? This science advisory summarizes the data and key 
considerations to guide these challenging decisions as the medical community 
collects further data and experience with these groundbreaking agents.

DOI: 10.1161/STR.0000000000000480
PMID: 39660440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Phytother Res. 2025 Feb;39(2):747-775. doi: 10.1002/ptr.8406. Epub 2024 Dec
11.

Role of Flavonoids in Mitigating the Pathological Complexities and Treatment 
Hurdles in Alzheimer's Disease.

Chib S(1), Dutta BJ(2), Chalotra R(1), Abubakar M(2), Kumar P(1), Singh TG(3), 
Singh R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education 
and Research (NIPER), Hajipur, India.
(3)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, India.

With the passage of time, people step toward old age and become more prone to 
several diseases associated with the age. One such is Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
which results into neuronal damage and dementia with the progression of age. The 
existing therapeutics has been hindered by various enkindles like less eminent 
between remote populations, affordability issues and toxicity profiles. 
Moreover, lack of suitable therapeutic option further worsens the quality of 
life in older population. Developing an efficient therapeutic intervention to 
cure AD is still a challenge for medical fraternity. Recently, alternative 
approaches attain the attention of researchers to focus on plant-based therapy 
in mitigating AD. In this context, flavonoids gained centrality as a feasible 
treatment in modifying various neurological deficits. This review mainly focuses 
on the pathological facets and economic burden of AD. Furthermore, we have 
explored the possible mechanism of flavonoids with the preclinical and clinical 
aspects for curing AD. Flavonoids being potential therapeutic, target the 
pathogenic factors of AD such as oxidative stress, inflammation, metal toxicity, 
Aβ accumulation, modulate neurotransmission and insulin signaling. In this 
review, we emphasized on potential neuroprotective effects of flavonoids in AD 
pathology, with focus on both experimental and clinical findings. While 
preclinical studies suggest promising therapeutic benefits, clinical data 
remains limited and inconclusive. Thus, further high-quality clinical trials are 
necessary to validate the efficacy of flavonoids in AD. The study aim is to 
promote the plant-based therapies and encourage people to add flavonoids to 
regular diet to avail the beneficial effects in preventive therapy for AD.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.8406
PMID: 39660432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Brain Commun. 2024 Dec 5;6(6):fcae442. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae442. 
eCollection 2024.

Amygdala-predominant α-synuclein pathology is associated with exacerbated 
hippocampal neuron loss in Alzheimer's disease.

Gawor K(1), Tomé SO(1), Vandenberghe R(2)(3), Van Damme P(3)(4), Vandenbulcke 
M(5), Otto M(6)(7), von Arnim CAF(6)(8), Ghebremedhin E(9), Ronisz A(1), 
Ospitalieri S(1), Blaschko M(10), Thal DR(1)(11).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Neuropathology, Department of Imaging and Pathology, KU 
Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium.
(2)Laboratory for Cognitive Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, KU Leuven, 
Leuven 3000, Belgium.
(3)Department of Neurology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium.
(4)Laboratory for Neurobiology, Department of Neuroscience, KU Leuven, Leuven 
3000, Belgium.
(5)Laboratory for Translational Neuropsychiatry, Department of Neuroscience, KU 
Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium.
(6)Department of Neurology, Ulm University, Ulm 89081, Germany.
(7)Department of Neurology, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle 
06120, Germany.
(8)Department of Geriatrics, University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen 
37073, Germany.
(9)Institute for Clinical Neuroanatomy, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University, 
Frankfurt am Main 60596, Germany.
(10)Processing Speech and Images, Department of Electrical Engineering, KU 
Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium.
(11)Department of Pathology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium.

Misfolded α-synuclein protein accumulates in 43-63% of individuals with 
symptomatic Alzheimer's disease. Two main patterns of comorbid α-synuclein 
pathology have been identified: caudo-rostral and amygdala-predominant. 
α-Synuclein aggregates have been shown to interact with the transactive response 
DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) and abnormally phosphorylated tau protein. All 
these proteins accumulate in the amygdala, which is anatomically connected with 
the hippocampus. However, the specific role of amygdala-predominant α-synuclein 
pathology in the progression of Alzheimer's disease and hippocampal degeneration 
remains unclear. In this cross-sectional study, we analysed 291 autopsy brains 
from both demented and non-demented elderly individuals neuropathologically. 
Neuronal density in the CA1 region of the hippocampus was assessed for all 
cases. We semiquantitatively evaluated α-synuclein pathology severity across 
seven brain regions and calculated a ratio of limbic to brainstem α-synuclein 
pathology severity, which was used to stratify the cases into two distinct 
spreading patterns. In the 99 symptomatic Alzheimer's disease cases, we assessed 
severity of limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 neuropathological changes and 
CA1 phosphorylated tau density. We performed triple fluorescence staining of 
medial temporal lobe samples with antibodies against phosphorylated TDP-43, 
α-synuclein and phosphorylated tau. Finally, we employed path analysis to 
determine the association network of various parameters of limbic pathology in 
Alzheimer's disease cases and CA1 neuronal density. We identified an association 
between the amygdala-predominant αSyn pathology pattern and decreased neuronal 
density in the CA1 region. We found that Alzheimer's disease cases with an 
amygdala-predominant α-synuclein pattern exhibited the highest TDP-43 severity 
and prevalence of TDP-43 inclusions in the dentate gyrus among all groups, while 
those with the caudo-rostral pattern had the lowest severity of Alzheimer's 
disease neuropathological changes. We observed colocalization of TDP-43, 
aggregated α-synuclein and hyperphosphorylated tau in cytoplasmic inclusions 
within hippocampal and amygdala neurons of Alzheimer's disease cases. Path 
analysis modelling suggests that the relationship between amygdala-predominant 
α-synuclein pathology and CA1 neuron loss is partially mediated by hippocampal 
tau and TDP-43 aggregates. Our findings suggest that Alzheimer's disease cases 
with amygdala-predominant α-synuclein pathology may constitute a distinct group 
with more severe hippocampal damage, a higher TDP-43 burden and potential 
interactions among α-synuclein, TDP-43 and hyperphosphorylated tau.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae442
PMCID: PMC11631359
PMID: 39659977

Conflict of interest statement: C.A.F.v.A. has received honoraria for serving on 
the Scientific Advisory Board of Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisk, BioNTech, Lilly, 
Dr. Willmar Schwabe GmbH & Co. KG, and MindAhead UG; funding for travel and 
speaker honoraria from Biogen, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche Diagnostics AG, 
Novartis, Medical Tribune Verlagsgesellschaft mbH, Landesvereinigung für 
Gesundheit und Akademie für Sozialmedizin Niedersachsen e.V., FomF GmbH | Forum 
für medizinische Fortbildung, and Dr. Willmar Schwabe GmbH & Co. KG; research 
support from Roche Diagnostics AG; and funding from the Innovationsfonds (Fund 
of the Federal Joint Committee, Gemeinsamer Bundesausschuss, G-BA; Grant Nos. 
VF1_2016-201, 01NVF21010, and 01VSF21019). M.O. provided scientific advice to 
Fujirebio, Roche, Biogen, Lilly, and Axon. D.R.T. received consultant honoraria 
from Muna Therapeutics and speaker honoraria from Biogen (USA), travel 
reimbursement from GE Healthcare (UK) and UCB (Belgium), and collaborated with 
Novartis Pharma AG (Switzerland), Probiodrug (Germany), GE Healthcare (UK), and 
Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies (Belgium).


81. Theranostics. 2024 Nov 4;14(19):7623-7644. doi: 10.7150/thno.103596.
eCollection  2024.

Intranasal delivery of engineered extracellular vesicles loaded with miR-206-3p 
antagomir ameliorates Alzheimer's disease phenotypes.

Peng D(1)(2)(3), Liu T(1)(2), Lu H(1)(2), Zhang L(1)(2), Chen H(1)(2)(4), Huang 
Y(1)(2)(4), Hu B(3), Zhang Q(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, 
Guangdong Basic Research Center of Excellence for Natural Bioactive Molecules 
and Discovery of Innovative Drugs, College of Life Science and Technology, Jinan 
University, Guangzhou 510632, China.
(2)Department of Cell Biology & Institute of Biomedicine, College of Life 
Science and Technology, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou 510630, China.
(4)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Bioengineering Medicine, National 
Engineering Research Center of Genetic Medicine, Jinan University, Guangzhou 
510632, China.

Rationale: The level of miR-206-3p in the plasma and temporal cortex is 
increased in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. miR-206-3p antagomir injected 
into hippocampus ameliorates cognitive deficits by enhancing the level of BDNF. 
However, the trauma caused by brain injection and susceptibility to degradation 
limit its application. Methods: To overcome these challenges, we constructed 
engineered extracellular vesicles derived from mesenchymal stem cell (MSC-EVs) 
loaded with miR-206-3p antagomir (MSC-EVs-anta) by electroporation technology, 
and explored the therapeutic effects of MSC-EVs-anta delivered by intranasal 
administration on AD mice. Transcriptome sequencing and LC-MS/MS proteomic 
analysis were employed to disclose the mechanism underlying the attenuation of 
AD phenotypes by MSC-EVs-anta. Results: MSC-EVs-anta had favorable 
neuroprotection by promoting neurite outgrowth in vitro. Following intranasal 
administration, MSC-EVs-anta improved learning and memory deficits, promoted 
hippocampal neurogenesis and synaptic plasticity, and alleviated Aβ deposition. 
Compared with MSC-EVs or miR-206-3p antagomir alone, MSC-EVs-anta showed 
superior therapeutic effects. Mechanistically, MSC-EVs-anta significantly 
upregulated brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in AD mice, and activated 
the BDNF/TrkB signaling pathway. The data from two-omics analyses demonstrated 
that the differentially expressed proteins and genes significantly regulated by 
MSC-EVs-anta were primarily enriched in the pathways involved in neurogenesis 
and synapse. Conclusions: Our findings highlight the intranasal administration 
of MSC-EVs-anta as a promising strategy for the treatment of AD.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/thno.103596
PMCID: PMC11626949
PMID: 39659569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


82. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2024 Dec 6;20:2375-2389. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S486452. 
eCollection 2024.

Contribution of Scalp Regions to Machine Learning-Based Classification of 
Dementia Utilizing Resting-State qEEG Signals.

Simfukwe C(1), An SSA(1), Youn YC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bionano Technology, Gachon University, Seongnam-si, South 
Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Chung-Ang University, Seoul, 
South Korea.

Erratum in
    Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2024 Dec 20;20:2569-2570. doi: 
10.2147/NDT.S513019.

PURPOSE: This study aims to investigate using eyes-open (EO) and eyes-closed 
(EC) resting-state EEG data to diagnose cognitive impairment using machine 
learning methods, enhancing timely intervention and cost-effectiveness in 
dementia research.
PARTICIPANTS AND METHODS: A total of 890 participants aged 40-90 were included 
in the study, comprising 269 healthy controls (HC), 356 individuals with mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI), and 265 with Alzheimer's disease (AD) from a cohort 
study. Resting-state EEG (rEEG) signals were recorded and transformed into 
relative power spectral density (PSD) data for analysis. The processed PSD data, 
representing 19 scalp regions, were then input into a Random Forest (RF) machine 
learning classifier to identify distinctive EEG patterns across the groups. 
Statistical comparisons between the groups were conducted using one-way ANOVA, 
applied to the relative PSD features extracted from the EEG data, to assess 
significant differences in EEG activity across the diagnostic categories.
RESULTS: The study found that rEEG-based categorization effectively 
differentiates between cognitively impaired individuals and healthy individuals. 
The EO rEEG achieved the highest performance metrics across various models. For 
HC vs MCI (combined hemisphere), the accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, and AUC 
were 92%, 99%, 83%, and 96%, respectively. For HC vs AD (parietal, temporal, 
occipital), these metrics were 95%, 96%, 94%, and 99%. The HC vs CASE (MCI + AD) 
(combined hemisphere) results were 90%, 99%, 73%, and 92%. The metrics for HC vs 
MCI vs AD (frontal, parietal, temporal) were 89%, 88%, 94%, and 96%.
CONCLUSION: The study demonstrates that EO rEEG can effectively distinguish 
between cognitive impairment and healthy states, leading to early diagnosis, 
cost-effective treatment, and better clinical outcomes for dementia patients. EO 
and EC rEEG models trained with relative PSD, particularly from parietal, 
temporal, occipital, and central scalp regions, can significantly assist 
clinicians in practice.

© 2024 Simfukwe et al.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S486452
PMCID: PMC11630699
PMID: 39659516

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests in this work.


83. Disabil Rehabil. 2025 Jul;47(15):3773-3780. doi:
10.1080/09638288.2024.2439567.  Epub 2024 Dec 11.

The World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule 2.0 (WHODAS 2.0) as 
a measure among elderly population. A review.

Ciamarra P(1), Corbi G(2), Gimigliano F(3), Feola A(1), Campobasso CP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Campania "Luigi 
Vanvitelli", Naples.
(2)Department of Medical and Translational Medicine, University of Naples 
"Federico II", Naples, Italy.
(3)Department of Mental and Physical Health and Preventive Medicine, University 
of Campania Luigi Vanvitelli, Naples, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To review the World Health Organization Disability Assessment 
Schedule (WHODAS2.0) application in elderly population.
METHODS: A review of English articles was performed using the following 
databases: PubMed/Medline, Scopus, Web of Science, Cochrane, Embase. Only 
articles assessing disability through WHODAS2.0 in elderly population 
(>60-years-old) were included according to PRISMA Statement.
RESULTS: 37 papers satisfied the inclusion criteria reporting 125.624 cases of 
elderly whose disability was assessed using WHODAS2.0 in different versions 
(36-items-version in 15 studies; 12-items-version in 15 papers; both versions in 
3 articles; data unavailable in 4 studies). Four different aims were recognized: 
WHODAS 2.0 was used in 12 studies to assess the prevalence of disability, 25 
studies of association between disability and environmental or medical 
conditions; 9 studies of validation of WHODAS and 2 studies to verify the 
outcome of therapies on functioning. Conclusions: WHODAS2.0 is a valid measure 
of disability among elderly, able to identify the relation between disability, 
and medical and environmental factors. Unfortunately, only few Countries apply 
the "bio-psycho-social" approach to social and health policies context. 
Therefore, it is recommended to adopt a rehabilitation perspective in every 
legislation. These results could serve as baseline data to monitor the 
application of WHODAS2.0 over the coming years.

Plain Language Summary: WHODAS 2.0 has been used in elderly population to assess 
the prevalence of disability and its association with medical and environmental 
factors in medical and rehabilitation contexts.Disability assessed by the WHODAS 
2.0 is commonly associated with physical health impairment, depression, 
Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson disease, dementia, social conditions, frailty, 
muscle impairment, old age, education, communication and hearing 
impairment.Rehabilitation professionals will benefit from the use of WHODAS 2.0 
recommended by United Nations, since it will provide a uniform evaluation of 
functioning and performance.

DOI: 10.1080/09638288.2024.2439567
PMID: 39659217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Yi Chuan. 2024 Dec;46(12):1017-1027. doi: 10.16288/j.yczz.24-178.

The mechanism and related research progress of GLP-1 receptor agonists in 
treating Alzheimer's disease.

Zhu XC(1), Wang YW(1), Zhou HW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 210029, China.

GLP-1 receptor agonists are primarily used clinically for the treatment of type 
2 diabetes and have the potential for weight loss, while they are currently 
expanding their horizons in the treatment of hypertension, non-alcoholic liver 
disease, depression, and neurodegenerative diseases. In particular, in the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease, a large number of animal models and a handful 
of clinical studies have demonstrated the potential efficacy of GLP-1 receptor 
agonists, making it highly probable that they will become a new entrant in the 
drug list for Alzheimer's disease. At present, the research on the mechanism of 
GLP-1 receptor agonist in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease is mainly based 
on in-depth analysis of the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and exploration 
of the mechanism of its comorbidity with diabetes. This article mainly reviews 
the latest advances in the mechanism of GLP-1 receptor agonists in the treatment 
of Alzheimer's disease, introduces the latest achievements in animal studies and 
clinical studies, and aims to provide reference for the subsequent relevant 
basic research and clinical application.

Publisher: 
GLP-1受体激动剂在临床上主要用于2型糖尿病的降糖治疗，并具有潜在的减重作用，而目前也开始尝试应用于治疗高血压、非酒精性肝病、抑郁症及神经退行性疾病等病症。尤其在阿尔茨海默症的治疗方面，大量的动物模型及一些临床研究已经展现了GLP-1受体激动剂潜在的疗效，它有很大可能成为治疗阿尔茨海默症药物谱的新秀。目前关于GLP-1受体激动剂治疗阿尔茨海默症的机制的研究，主要基于深入剖析阿尔茨海默症的致病机理，以及探索其与糖尿病的共病机制等方面展开。本文主要综述了GLP-1受体激动剂在治疗阿尔茨海默症的机制方面的最新进展，并介绍了目前在动物研究及临床研究中的最新成果，以期为后续GLP-1受体激动剂治疗阿尔茨海默症的基础研究和临床应用提供参考。.

DOI: 10.16288/j.yczz.24-178
PMID: 39658957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Br J Sports Med. 2025 Feb 3;59(3):167-176. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2024-108257.

Cardiorespiratory fitness is associated with cognitive function in late 
adulthood: baseline findings from the IGNITE study.

Oberlin LE(1)(2), Wan L(3), Kang C(4), Romano A(3), Aghjayan S(3), Lesnovskaya 
A(3), Ripperger HS(3), Drake J(3), Harrison R(3), Collins AM(5), Molina-Hidalgo 
C(5), Grove G(3), Huang H(5), Kramer A(6)(7), Hillman CH(6)(8)(9), Burns JM(10), 
Vidoni ED(10), McAuley E(7)(11), Kamboh MI(12)(13), Jakicic JM(14), Erickson 
KI(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, AdventHealth Orlando, Orlando, Florida, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, AdventHealth Research Institute, Orlando, 
Florida, USA.
(6)Center for Cognitive and Brain Health, Northeastern University - Boston 
Campus, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Beckman Institute, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, 
Illinois, USA.
(8)Department of Physical Therapy, Movement, and Rehabilitation Sciences, 
Northeastern University - Boston Campus, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(9)Department of Psychology, Northeastern University, Boston Campus, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(10)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, The University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City, Kansas, USA.
(11)Department of Health and Kinesiology, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, USA.
(12)Department of Human Genetics, University of Pittsburgh School of Public 
Health, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(13)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(14)Department of Internal Medicine, The University of Kansas Medical Center, 
Kansas City, Kansas, USA.
(15)Department of Neuroscience, AdventHealth Research Institute, Orlando, 
Florida, USA kirk.erickson@adventhealth.com.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the association between cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) 
and cognition in a large sample of older adults, and to examine clinical and 
demographic factors that might moderate these associations.
METHODS: CRF was measured with a graded exercise test performed on a motorised 
treadmill. A confirmatory factor analysis was conducted using data from a 
comprehensive neuropsychological battery to obtain latent factors reflecting 
core cognitive domains. Linear regression models evaluated the association 
between CRF and each of the cognitive composites, and potential moderators 
including demographic factors (age, sex, education), apolipoprotein E ε4 (APOE4) 
carriage, beta-blocker use and components of maximal effort criteria during CRF 
testing.
RESULTS: The sample consisted of 648 adults (mean (SD) age 69.88 (3.75)), 
including 461 women (71.1%). The highest oxygen consumption obtained during 
testing (VO2max) was mean (SD) = 21.68 (5.06) mL/kg/min. We derived a 
five-factor model composed of episodic memory, processing speed, working memory, 
executive function/attentional control and visuospatial function. Higher CRF was 
associated with better performance across all five cognitive domains after 
controlling for covariates. Age and APOE4 carriage did not moderate observed 
associations. The relationship between CRF and cognitive performance was greater 
in women, those with fewer years of education and those taking beta-blockers in 
the domains of processing speed (sex: β=-0.447; p=0.015; education: β=-0.863; 
p=0.018) and executive function/attentional control (sex: β=-0.417; p=0.022; 
education β=-0.759; p=0.034; beta-blocker use: β=0.305; p=0.047).
CONCLUSION: Higher CRF in older adulthood is associated with better cognitive 
performance across multiple domains susceptible to age-related cognitive 
decline. Sex, education and use of beta-blockers moderated observed associations 
within select cognitive domains.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsports-2024-108257
PMCID: PMC11790366
PMID: 39658276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest relevant to this article. KIE consults for MedRhythms, 
Inc., and Neo Auvra, Inc. JMJ is on the Scientific Advisory Board for Wondr 
Health, Inc., and was the site principal investigator for a research study 
supported by Epitomee Medical, Inc., awarded to the University of Kansas Medical 
Center.


86. Gerontologist. 2024 Dec 17;65(2):gnae177. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnae177.

Family Care Partners and Paid Caregivers: National Estimates of Role-Sharing in 
Home Care.

Fabius CD(1), Gallo JJ(2), Burgdorf J(3), Samus QM(4), Skehan M(5), Stockwell 
I(6), Wolff JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(2)Department of Mental Health, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(3)Center for Home Care Policy and Research, VNS Health, New York, New York, 
USA.
(4)School of Nursing, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(6)Department of Information Systems, University of Maryland Baltimore County, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: We describe "role-sharing" in home care, defined as 
family care partners and paid caregivers assisting with the same task(s).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We studied 440 participants in the 2015 National 
Health and Aging Trends Study receiving paid help with self-care, mobility, or 
medical care. We describe patterns in receiving paid help only, help from care 
partners only, and role-sharing. We examine whether sole reliance on paid help 
or role-sharing differs by Medicaid-enrollment and dementia status.
RESULTS: Half (52.9%) of care networks involved role-sharing. Care networks 
involving role-sharing more often occurred among older adults with dementia 
(48.7% vs 25.6%, p < .001) and less often for those who were Medicaid-enrolled 
(32.1% vs 49.4%, p < .01). Those living with dementia more often experienced 
role-sharing in eating (odds ratio [OR] 3.9 [95% confidence interval {CI} 1.20, 
8.50]), bathing (OR 2.7, [95% CI 1.50, 4.96]), dressing (OR 2.1 [95% CI 1.14, 
3.86]), toileting (OR 2.9 [95% CI 1.23, 6.74]), and indoor mobility (OR 2.8 [95% 
CI 1.42, 5.56]), and less often received help solely from paid helpers with 
medication administration (OR 0.24, [95% CI .12, .46]). Medicaid-enrollees more 
often received paid help only in dressing (OR 2.0 [95% CI 1.12, 3.74]), outdoor 
(OR 2.4 [95% CI 1.28, 4.36]), and indoor mobility (OR 4.3 [95% CI 2.41, 7.62]), 
and with doctor visits (OR 2.8 [95% CI 1.29, 5.94]).
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Role-sharing is common, especially among older 
adults living with dementia who are not Medicaid-enrolled. Strategies supporting 
information sharing and collaboration in home-based care merit investigation.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnae177
PMCID: PMC11772859
PMID: 39657690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


87. Immunity. 2025 Jan 14;58(1):197-217.e13. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2024.11.003.
Epub  2024 Dec 9.

Microglial lipid phosphatase SHIP1 limits complement-mediated synaptic pruning 
in the healthy developing hippocampus.

Matera A(1), Compagnion AC(1), Pedicone C(2), Kotah JM(3), Ivanov A(4), Monsorno 
K(1), Labouèbe G(1), Leggio L(5), Pereira-Iglesias M(6), Beule D(4), 
Mansuy-Aubert V(1), Williams TL(7), Iraci N(5), Sierra A(8), Marro SG(9), Goate 
AM(10), Eggen BJL(3), Kerr WG(11), Paolicelli RC(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(2)Department of Genetics and Genomics Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mt. 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Section Molecular Neurobiology, University 
of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(4)Core Unit Bioinformatics, Berlin Institute of Health, 
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences, University of 
Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy.
(6)Achucarro Basque Center for Neuroscience, Barrio Sarriena s/n, Leioa, Spain; 
Department of Neuroscience, University of the Basque Country EHU/UPV, Barrio 
Sarriena s/n, Leioa, Spain.
(7)Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(8)Achucarro Basque Center for Neuroscience, Barrio Sarriena s/n, Leioa, Spain; 
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of the Basque 
Country EHU/UPV, Barrio Sarriena, Leioa, Spain; Ikerbasque Foundation, Bilbao, 
Spain.
(9)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY, USA; Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Department of Neurosciences, Black 
Family Stem Cell Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mt. Sinai, New York, NY, 
USA.
(10)Department of Genetics and Genomics Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mt. Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Nash Family 
Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(11)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Department of Microbiology & Immunology, SUNY Upstate 
Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA; Department of Pediatrics, SUNY Upstate 
Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(12)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: rosachiara.paolicelli@unil.ch.

The gene inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase D (INPP5D), which encodes the 
lipid phosphatase SH2-containing inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP1), 
is associated with the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). How it influences 
microglial function and brain physiology is unclear. Here, we showed that SHIP1 
was enriched in early stages of healthy brain development. By combining in vivo 
loss-of-function approaches and proteomics, we discovered that mice 
conditionally lacking microglial SHIP1 displayed increased complement and 
synapse loss in the early postnatal brain. SHIP1-deficient microglia showed 
altered transcriptional signatures and abnormal synaptic pruning that was 
dependent on the complement system. Mice exhibited cognitive defects in 
adulthood only when microglial SHIP1 was depleted early postnatally but not at 
later stages. Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived microglia lacking 
SHIP1 also showed increased engulfment of synaptic structures. These findings 
suggest that SHIP1 is essential for proper microglia-mediated synapse remodeling 
in the healthy developing brain. Disrupting this process has lasting behavioral 
effects and may be linked to vulnerability to neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2024.11.003
PMID: 39657671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests A.M.G. serves on the 
SRB of Genentech and the SAB of Muna Therapeutics. A.M.G. received funding from 
JPB Foundation and NIH U01AG058635. W.G.K. and C.P. have a patent pending 
regarding the use of human iPSCs that have been gene edited at the SHIP1/INPP5D 
locus for use as a cell therapy in dementias.


88. Comput Biol Med. 2025 Feb;185:109523. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109523. 
Epub 2024 Dec 9.

Natural compounds for Alzheimer's prevention and treatment: Integrating 
SELFormer-based computational screening with experimental validation.

Zhou J(1), Kim YK(2), Li C(3), Park S(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Advanced Clinical Medicine, Peking University, Beijing, 100191, 
China; Department of Bioconvergence, Hoseo University, Asan, South Korea.
(2)Department of Information and Communication Engineering, Hoseo University, 
Asan, South Korea.
(3)Institute of Advanced Clinical Medicine, Peking University, Beijing, 100191, 
China.
(4)Department of Bioconvergence, Hoseo University, Asan, South Korea; Dept. of 
Food and Nutrition, Obesity/Diabetes Research Center, Hoseo University, Asan, 
South Korea. Electronic address: smpark@hoseo.edu.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to develop and apply a novel computational pipeline 
combining SELFormer, a transformer architecture-based chemical language model, 
with advanced deep learning techniques to predict natural compounds (NCs) with 
potential in Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment. The NCs were identified based 
on activity related to seven AD-specific genes, including acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE), amyloid precursor protein (APP), beta-secretase 1 (BACE1), and 
presenilin-1 (PSEN1).
METHODS: We implemented a computational pipeline using SELFormer and deep 
learning techniques, conducted optimal clustering and quantitative 
structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analyses, and performed a uniform 
manifold approximation and projection (UMAP) to categorize compounds based on 
bioactivity levels. Molecular docking analysis was carried out on selected 
compounds. To validate the computational predictions, we conducted in vitro 
studies using nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells. Finally, we 
mapped the relationships between food sources containing the identified 
compounds and their target proteins.
RESULTS: Optimal clustering analysis revealed five distinct groups of NCs, while 
QSAR analysis highlighted variations in molecular properties across clusters. 
The UMAP projection identified 17 highly active NCs (pIC50>7). Molecular docking 
analysis showed that cowanin, β-caryophyllene, and L-citronellol demonstrated 
decreased binding energy across target proteins. In vitro studies confirmed 
significant biological activities of these compounds, including increased cell 
viability, decreased AChE activity, reduced lipid peroxidation and tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF)-α mRNA expression, and increased brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression compared to the control. The study 
also identified natural sources of these compounds, such as anatidae, 
mangosteen, and celery, providing insights into potential dietary interventions.
CONCLUSION: This integrated computational and experimental approach offers a 
promising framework for identifying potential NCs for AD treatment. The results 
contribute to exploring effective therapeutic strategies against AD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109523
PMID: 39657444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


89. Neurol Sci. 2025 Apr;46(4):1925-1927. doi: 10.1007/s10072-024-07925-7. Epub
2024  Dec 10.

Exploring neurosurgical interventions in Alzheimer's disease: current 
perspectives and future directions.

Kathiresan N(1), Selvaraj C(2), Subbaraj GK(3), Langeswaran K(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Alagappa University, Science Campus, Karaikudi, 
Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)CsrDD Lab, Department of Microbiology, Dr. D. Y. Patil Medical College 
Hospital & Research Centre, Dr. D. Y. Patil Vidyapeeth (Deemed to be 
University), Pimpri, Pune, 411018, India.
(3)Faculty of Allied Health Sciences Chettinad Hospital & Research Institute, 
Chettinad Academy of Research and Education (Deemed to be University), 
Kelambakkam, Tamil Nadu, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Alagappa University, Science Campus, Karaikudi, 
Tamil Nadu, India. dr.langeswaran@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Biomedical Science, Alagappa University, Science Campus, 
Karaikudi, Tamil Nadu, 630 003, India. dr.langeswaran@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
cognitive decline, has traditionally relied on pharmacological interventions. 
However, the limitations of current treatments have spurred interest in 
neurosurgical approaches. This review explores the potential of neurosurgery, 
particularly deep brain stimulation (DBS), in modifying disease progression and 
enhancing cognitive function in AD patients. While promising, significant 
challenges, including surgical precision, patient variability, and ethical 
considerations, hinder widespread application. The future of neurosurgical 
interventions lies in minimally invasive techniques, novel neurostimulation 
methods, and precision neurosurgery guided by advanced imaging and 
neurophysiological mapping. As research advances, neurosurgery may emerge as a 
valuable tool in the comprehensive management of AD.

© 2024. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-024-07925-7
PMID: 39656383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Conflict of interest: The Authors declare that there is no conflict 
of interest.


90. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 May;398(5):6113-6122. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-024-03552-3. Epub 2024 Dec 10.

Bacopaside-I ameliorates motor dysfunction and neurodegeneration in rat model of 
Parkinson's disease.

Singh B(1), Pandey S(2), Rumman M(3), Gupta M(1), Mahdi AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, India. 
drshivaninbc@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Biosciences, Integral University, Kursi Road, Lucknow, India.

Chronic administration of Bacopa monnieri extract exerts neuroprotective 
potential in multiple animal models of neurodegenerative disorders such as 
Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), depression, and other 
cognitive impairments. However, the underlying mechanism of action remained 
unclear. Rotenone model of PD holds a great potential for investigating PD 
pathology and motor and nonmotor symptoms. Herein, we evaluated the 
neuroprotective effect of Bacopaside-I (BS-I), a major triterpenoid saponin of 
Bacopa monnieri extract, against rotenone-induced in vivo model of PD and 
explored the possible molecular mechanism. Rats were exposed to rotenone 
(2 mg/kg body weight) for a period of 4 consecutive weeks to induce PD-like 
behavior. BS-I (5, 15, and 45 mg/kg) was administered orally. Behavioral data 
(rotarod, foot printing, and grip strength test) suggest that BS-I plays a 
significant role in attenuating the motor function deficit. Exposure to rotenone 
reduces the dopamine level and increases oxidative stress, while BS-I treatment 
reversed these changes. Furthermore, chronic administration of BS-I increased 
the expression levels of dopamine transporter (DAT) and vesicular monoamine 
transporter (VMAT) genes and the numbers of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive 
neurons as compared to rotenone-exposed animals. Our study established the 
neuroprotective role of BS-I in PD model and laid the foundation for further 
evaluation of BS-I-based drug in future studies.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-024-03552-3
PMID: 39656222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: This study was 
approved by the Institutional Animal Ethics Committee, King George’s Medical 
University, Lucknow (Approval No. 61/IAH/Pharma-18). Competing interest: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


91. Br J Community Nurs. 2024 Dec 2;29(12):588-595. doi: 10.12968/bjcn.2024.0071.

Recognition and assessment of pain in people with advanced dementia.

Kawalek CL(1), Dening KH(2).

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals of Derby and Burton, NHS Foundation Trust.
(2)Head of Research and Publications, Dementia UK.

Pain is highly prevalent among older adults, equally affecting people with 
dementia and those without cognitive impairments. As dementia progresses, 
patients often develop difficulties in communication and it may impact their 
ability to self-report pain. Therefore, it is essential that nurses working with 
dementia patients understand how to recognise, assess and manage pain in this 
population. This article explores how pain affects people with dementia, 
especially those who cannot communicate their discomfort, and discusses how pain 
may present in these individuals. The article also offers guidance on assessing 
pain using observational tools. It highlights the importance of knowing the 
person and the valuable information provided by family caregivers. A 
hypothetical case study is used to consider some of the common issues in 
community nursing.

DOI: 10.12968/bjcn.2024.0071
PMID: 39656038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Med Chem. 2024 Dec 26;67(24):22245-22253. doi:
10.1021/acs.jmedchem.4c02286.  Epub 2024 Dec 10.

Constrained β-Hairpins Targeting the EphA4 Ligand Binding Domain.

Prentiss AM(1), Baggio C(1), Pagett J(1), Kulinich AO(1), Ethell IM(1), 
Muzzarelli K(2), Assar Z(2), Pellecchia M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biomedical Sciences, School of Medicine, University of California 
Riverside, 900 University Avenue, Riverside, California 92521, United States.
(2)Cayman Chemical Co., 1180 E. Ellsworth Road, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48108, 
United States.

The activity of the receptor tyrosine kinase EphA4 has been implicated in 
several pathologies including oncology (gastric and pancreatic cancers) and 
neurodegenerative diseases (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer's 
disease). However, advances in validating EphA4 as a possible drug target have 
been limited by the lack of suitable pharmacological inhibitors. Recently, we 
reported on the design of potent EphA4 agonistic agents targeting its ligand 
binding domain (LBD). Based on previous studies with a phage display cyclic 
peptide inhibitor, we designed a β-hairpin mimetic with high affinity for 
EphA4-LBD. These agents hold great promise for further validation and 
development of EphA4-based therapeutics. Moreover, our studies introduce a 
possible strategy for the design of constrained β-hairpin peptides.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.4c02286
PMCID: PMC11684737
PMID: 39656022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing 
financial interest(s): UCR has filed a patent application relative to the agents 
and their methods of use for ALS and other indications. Small amounts of any of 
the agents reported in the manuscript can be made available for research 
purposes through a standard MTA. MP and CB are co-founders of Armida Labs, Inc.


93. Drug Dev Res. 2024 Dec;85(8):e70026. doi: 10.1002/ddr.70026.

Does Metabolic Manager Show Encouraging Outcomes in Alzheimer's?: Challenges and 
Opportunity for Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase 1b Inhibitors.

Singh R(1), Jain S(1), Paliwal V(1), Verma K(2), Paliwal S(1), Sharma S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali, Rajasthan, India.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Cardiology, LSU Health Sciences 
Center Shreveport, Louisiana, USA.

Protein tyrosine phosphatase 1b (PTP1b) is a member of the protein tyrosine 
phosphatase (PTP) enzyme group and encoded as PTP1N gene. Studies have evidenced 
an overexpression of the PTP1b enzyme in metabolic syndrome, anxiety, 
schizophrenia, neurodegeneration, and neuroinflammation. PTP1b inhibitor 
negatively regulates insulin and leptin pathways and has been explored as an 
antidiabetic agent in various clinical trials. Notably, the preclinical studies 
have shown that recuperating metabolic dysfunction and dyshomeostasis can 
reverse cognition and could be a possible approach to mitigate multifaceted 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). PTP1b inhibitor thus has attracted attention in 
neuroscience, though the development is limited to the preclinical stage, and 
its exploration in large clinical trials is warranted. This review provides an 
insight on the development of PTP1b inhibitors from different sources in 
diabesity. The crosstalk between metabolic dysfunction and insulin insensitivity 
in AD and type-2 diabetes has also been highlighted. Furthermore, this review 
presents the significance of PTP1b inhibition in AD based on pathophysiological 
facets, and recent evidences from preclinical and clinical studies.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ddr.70026
PMID: 39655712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Neurochem. 2025 Jan;169(1):e16265. doi: 10.1111/jnc.16265.

The kinase LRRK2 is required for the physiological function and expression of 
the glial glutamate transporter EAAT2 (SLC1A2).

Di Iacovo A(1)(2), D'Agostino C(1)(2)(3), Bhatt M(1)(2), Romanazzi T(1)(2), 
Giovannardi S(1), Cinquetti R(1), Roseti C(1)(2), Bossi E(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Sciences, Laboratory of Cellular and 
Molecular Physiology, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy.
(2)Centre for Neuroscience, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy.
(3)PhD School of Experimental and Translational Medicine, University of 
Insubria, Varese, Italy.

Neurotransmitter transporters (NTTs) control synaptic responses by modulating 
the concentration of neurotransmitters at the synaptic cleft. Glutamate is the 
most abundant excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain and needs to be finely 
tuned in time and space to maintain a healthy brain and precise 
neurotransmission. The glutamate transporter EAAT2 (SLC1A2) is primarily 
responsible for glutamate clearance. EAAT2 impairment has been associated with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Huntington's disease (HD), amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS), and Parkinson's disease (PD). Mutations in leucine-rich repeat 
kinase 2 (LRRK2) contribute to both monogenic and sporadic forms of PD, of which 
the common substitution Gly2019Ser is associated with a significant deficit in 
EAAT2 expression. The role of pathological mutants of the LRRK2 is intensively 
studied and reviewed. Here we have focused the attention on the physiological 
role of LRRK2 on EAAT2, comparing the activity of NTTs with or without the LRRK2 
kinase. By heterologous expression in Xenopus laevis oocytes and two-electrode 
voltage clamp, the current amplitudes of the selected NTTs and kinetic 
parameters have been collected in the presence and absence of LRRK2. The results 
show that EAAT2 expression and function are impaired in the absence of the 
kinase and also under its pharmacological inhibition via MLi-2 treatment. LRRK2 
stabilizes EAAT2 expression increasing the amount of transporter at the plasma 
membrane. Interestingly, the LRRK2 action is EAAT2-specific, as we observed no 
significant changes in the transport current amplitude and kinetic parameters 
obtained for the other excitatory and inhibitory NTTs studied. This study, for 
the first time, demonstrates the physiological importance of LRRK2 in EAAT2 
function, highlighting the specificity of LRRK2-mediated modulation of EAAT2 and 
suggesting a potential role for the kinase as a checkpoint for preserving 
neurons from excitotoxicity. In brain conditions associated with impaired 
glutamate clearance, targeting LRRK2 for EAAT2 regulation may offer novel 
therapeutic opportunities.

© 2024 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.16265
PMCID: PMC11629453
PMID: 39655696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted without any commercial or financial relationships that could be 
construed as a potential conflict of interest.


95. J Neurochem. 2025 Jan;169(1):e16276. doi: 10.1111/jnc.16276.

Identification of Alzheimer's disease susceptibility genes by integrating eight 
human brain single-cell transcriptomes with genome-wide association studies.

He Y(1), Zhu P(1), Gao S(1), Wu S(1), Li X(1), Huang C(2), Chen Y(3), Liu 
G(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institute of Brain Disorders, Laboratory of Brain Disorders, Ministry 
of Science and Technology, Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain Disorders, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)Dr. Neher's Biophysics Laboratory for Innovative Drug Discovery, State Key 
Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Macau University of Science 
and Technology, Taipa, China.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Wannan 
Medical College, Wuhu, China.
(4)Brain Hospital, Shengli Oilfield Central Hospital, Dongying, China.
(5)Beijing Key Laboratory of Hypoxia Translational Medicine, National 
Engineering Laboratory of Internet Medical Diagnosis and Treatment Technology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.

To date, several studies have integrated genome-wide association studies (GWAS) 
and expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) data from bulk tissues to identify 
novel Alzheimer's disease (AD) genetic variants and susceptibility genes. 
However, there is highly cell-type-specific nature in different bulk eQTL data. 
Until now, eQTL data from different brain single cells have been reported. 
Therefore, integrating eQTL data from different brain single-cell types along 
with AD GWAS data makes biological sense for studying the potential biological 
explanations of AD. Here, we utilized the summary-data-based Mendelian 
randomization (SMR) method to integrate AD GWAS data with eQTL data from eight 
brain single-cell types. We identified a larger number of significant genes 
compared to previous SMR study based on bulk eQTL. Notably, microglia exhibited 
the highest number of significant genes. Moreover, we conducted validation-phase 
SMR analysis, single-cell analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI), 
druggability evaluation, functional enrichment analyses, and colocalization 
analysis of the top 20 SMR significant genes in microglia. We found that most 
genes passed the validation and were significantly enriched in microglia. PPI 
analysis uncovered interactions among PICALM, BIN1, RIN3, CD2AP, CASS4, and 
MS4A6E. Five most significant SMR genes were further validated through 
colocalization analysis. RIN3 is the only significant gene across all mentioned 
analyses and is a novel AD susceptibility gene at the genome-wide significance 
level. Druggability evaluation identified KCNQ3, HLA-DQB1, and RABEP1 as known 
genes previously targeted for drug development in neurological disorders, 
suggesting their potential therapeutic relevance in AD.

© 2024 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.16276
PMID: 39655660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jan;21(1):e14214. doi: 10.1002/alz.14214. Epub 2024
Dec  10.

Transethnic analysis identifies SORL1 variants and haplotypes protective against 
Alzheimer's disease.

Zhou X(1)(2)(3), Cao H(1), Jiang Y(1)(2), Chen Y(1)(3)(4)(5), Zhong H(1)(2), Fu 
WY(1), Lo RMN(1)(2), Wong BWY(1)(2), Cheng EYL(1)(2), Mok KY(1)(3)(6), Kwok 
TCY(7), Mok VCT(8), Ip FCF(1)(2)(3); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative; Miyashita A(9), Hara N(9), Ikeuchi T(9), Hardy J(2)(6)(10), Chen 
Y(1)(3)(4)(5), Fu AKY(1)(2)(3)(4), Ip NY(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, 
Molecular Neuroscience Center, The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(3)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Science, Disease and Drug 
Development, HKUST Shenzhen Research Institute, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.
(4)SIAT-HKUST Joint Laboratory for Brain Science, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.
(5)The Brain Cognition and Brain Disease Institute, Shenzhen Institutes of 
Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute 
of Brain Science - Shenzhen Fundamental Research Institutions, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong, China.
(6)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, UK.
(7)Therese Pei Fong Chow Research Centre for Prevention of Dementia, Division of 
Geriatrics, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(8)Gerald Choa Neuroscience Centre, Lui Che Woo Institute of Innovative 
Medicine, Therese Pei Fong Chow Research Centre for Prevention of Dementia, 
Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(9)Department of Molecular Genetics, Brain Research Institute, Niigata 
University, Niigata, Japan.
(10)Institute for Advanced Study, The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, Hong Kong, China.

INTRODUCTION: The SORL1 locus exhibits protective effects against Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) across ancestries, yet systematic studies in diverse populations 
are sparse.
METHODS: Logistic regression identified AD-associated SORL1 haplotypes in East 
Asian (N = 5249) and European (N = 8588) populations. Association analysis 
between SORL1 haplotypes and AD-associated traits or plasma biomarkers was 
conducted. The effects of non-synonymous mutations were assessed in cell-based 
systems.
RESULTS: Protective SORL1 variants/haplotypes were identified in the East Asian 
and European populations. Haplotype Hap_A showed a strong protective effect 
against AD in East Asians, linked to less severe AD phenotypes, higher SORL1 
transcript levels, and plasma proteomic changes. A missense variant within 
Hap_A, rs2282647-C allele, was linked to a lower risk of AD and decreased 
expression of a truncated SORL1 protein isoform.
DISCUSSION: Our transethnic analysis revealed key SORL1 haplotypes that exert 
protective effects against AD, suggesting mechanisms of the protective role of 
SORL1 in AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: We examined the AD-protective mechanisms of SORL1 in the general 
population across diverse ancestral backgrounds by jointly analyzing data from 
three East Asian cohorts (ie, mainland China, Hong Kong, and Japan) and a 
European cohort. Comparative analysis unveiled key ethnic-specific SORL1 genetic 
variants and haplotypes. Among these, the SORL1 minor haplotype, Hap_A, emerged 
as the primary AD-protective factor in East Asians. Hap_A exerts significant 
AD-protective effects in both APOE ε4 carriers and non-carriers. SORL1 haplotype 
Hap_A is associated with cognitive function, brain volume, and the activity of 
specific neuronal and immune-related pathways closely connected to AD risk. 
Protective variants within Hap_A are linked to increased SORL1 expression in 
human tissues. We identified an isoform-specific missense variant in Hap_A that 
modifies the function and levels of a truncated SORL1 protein isoform that is 
poorly investigated.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14214
PMCID: PMC11772736
PMID: 39655505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting information.


97. Front Neurol. 2024 Nov 25;15:1474439. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1474439. 
eCollection 2024.

The role and mechanism of Aβ clearance dysfunction in the glymphatic system in 
Alzheimer's disease comorbidity.

Li H(1), Yao Q(1), Huang X(1), Yang X(1), Yu C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical University, 
Zunyi, China.

Erratum in
    Front Neurol. 2025 Jun 06;16:1633297. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1633297.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading type of dementia globally, characterized 
by a complex pathogenesis that involves various comorbidities. An imbalance in 
the production and clearance of amyloid β-protein (Aβ) peptides in the brain is 
a key pathological mechanism of AD, with the glymphatic system playing a crucial 
role in Aβ clearance. Comorbidities associated with AD, such as diabetes, 
depression, and hypertension, not only affect Aβ production but also impair the 
brain's lymphatic system. Abnormalities in the structure and function of this 
system further weaken Aβ clearance capabilities, and the presence of 
comorbidities may exacerbate this process. This paper aims to review the role 
and specific mechanisms of impaired Aβ clearance via the glymphatic system in 
the context of AD comorbidities, providing new insights for the prevention and 
treatment of AD. Overall, the damage to the glymphatic system primarily focuses 
on aquaporin-4 (AQP4) and perivascular spaces (PVS), suggesting that maintaining 
the health of the glymphatic system may help slow the progression of AD and its 
comorbidities. Additionally, given the ongoing controversies regarding the 
structure of the glymphatic system, this paper revisits this structure and 
discusses the principles and characteristics of current detection methods for 
the glymphatic system.

Copyright © 2024 Li, Yao, Huang, Yang and Yu.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1474439
PMCID: PMC11626247
PMID: 39655162

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


98. J Clin Transl Sci. 2024 Aug 19;8(1):e96. doi: 10.1017/cts.2024.536.
eCollection  2024.

The role of the adenylate kinase 5 gene in various diseases and cancer.

Siddiqui MS(1), Shahi MH(1), Castresana JS(2).

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Brain Research Centre, Faculty of Medicine, Aligarh Muslim 
University, Aligarh 202002, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, University of Navarra School of 
Sciences, Pamplona 31008, Spain.

Adenylate kinases (AKs) are important enzymes involved in cellular energy 
metabolism. Among AKs, AK5 (adenylate kinase 5), a cytosolic protein, is 
emerging as a significant contributor to various diseases and cellular 
processes. This comprehensive review integrates findings from various research 
groups on AK5 since its discovery, shedding light on its multifaceted roles in 
nucleotide metabolism, energy regulation, and cellular differentiation. We 
investigate its implications in a spectrum of diseases, including autoimmune 
encephalitis, epilepsy, neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and 
Parkinson's, diabetes, lower extremity arterial disease, celiac disease, and 
various cancers. Notably, AK5's expression levels and methylation status have 
been associated with cancer progression and patient outcomes, indicating its 
potential as a prognostic indicator. Furthermore, AK5 is implicated in 
regulating cellular processes in breast cancer, gastric cancer, colorectal 
carcinoma, prostate cancer, and colon adenocarcinoma, suggesting its relevance 
across different cancer types. However, a limitation lies in the need for more 
robust clinical validation and a deeper understanding of AK5's precise 
mechanisms in disease pathogenesis, despite its association with various 
pathophysiological conditions. Nonetheless, AK5 holds promise as a therapeutic 
target, with emerging evidence suggesting its potential in therapy development.

© The Author(s) 2024.

DOI: 10.1017/cts.2024.536
PMCID: PMC11626602
PMID: 39655021

Conflict of interest statement: None.


99. J Inflamm Res. 2024 Dec 5;17:10239-10254. doi: 10.2147/JIR.S480556.
eCollection  2024.

The Role of Chitinase 3-Like-1 (YKL-40) and Proinflammatory Biomarkers in the 
Pathogenesis of Pediatric Tick-Borne Encephalitis in a Polish Cohort.

Bojkiewicz E(1), Toczylowski K(1), Lewandowski D(1), Martonik D(2), Flisiak 
R(2), Sulik A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Medical University of Bialystok, 
Bialystok, Poland.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases and Hepatology, Medical University of 
Bialystok, Bialystok, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Chitinase 3-like-1 (CHI3L1), also known as YKL-40, is a potential 
biomarker for neuroinflammatory conditions. It is upregulated in Alzheimer's 
disease, multiple sclerosis, and traumatic brain injury. However, its 
involvement in pediatric tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) has not been addressed 
yet. This study aimed to evaluate CHI3L1 and its relationship with other 
inflammatory cytokines, blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, immune response, 
and disease severity in pediatric patients with TBE.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 22 pediatric TBE patients hospitalized in 
Bialystok, Poland were included in this study. Participants were categorized as 
having meningoencephalitis (n=6) or meningitis (n=16). The integrity of the 
brain-blood barrier (BBB) was assessed using the albumin quotient (albQ). 
Biomarker indices were calculated to account for variations in BBB permeability. 
The concentrations of CHI3L1, CCL2, chemerin, CXCL2, IFN-γ, IL-1-β, IL-4, IL-6, 
IL-13, and TNF-α in both serum and CSF, were measured using the Luminex 
Multiplex Assay od admission and two weeks later when symptoms resolved.
RESULTS: CSF and serum concentrations of CHI3L1 did not differ between the 
encephalitis and meningitis cases. After adjusting for BBB permeability, the 
CHI3L1 index was 2.4-fold lower in patients with encephalitis than in those with 
meningitis (P=0.008). There was a post-treatment reduction of CHI3L1, IL-6, and 
TNF-α CSF concentrations. We also found and improvement in BBB permeability in 
younger children but in older albQ remained abnormal. Correlation analysis 
revealed associations between CHI3L1 levels and pro-inflammatory markers, 
notably chemerin, IL-6, and TNF-α, across both clinical groups.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that CHI3L1 CSF levels reflect the inflammatory 
activity in pediatric TBE and may help to differentiate between 
meningoencephalitis and meningitis. The observed interactions between CHI3L1 and 
other cytokines underscore its potential involvement in inflammatory response to 
the virus. The prolonged disruption in BBB integrity in older children might 
reflect age-dependent differences in the severity of TBE. These insights advance 
our understanding of TBE pathogenesis in children and support further 
investigation of CHI3L1 as a biomarker for TBE diagnosis and management.

© 2024 Bojkiewicz et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S480556
PMCID: PMC11626975
PMID: 39654857

Conflict of interest statement: Professor Robert Flisiak reports grants, 
personal fees, non-financial support, Advisory from AbbVie, grants, personal 
fees, non-financial support, Advisory from Gilead, grants, personal fees, 
Advisory from Pfizer, grants from Roche, personal fees, non-financial support, 
Advisory from Novavax, Advisory from Novo Nordisk, outside the submitted work. 
The author reports no other conflicts of interest in this work.


100. J Inflamm Res. 2024 Dec 5;17:10471-10478. doi: 10.2147/JIR.S489474.
eCollection  2024.

Knockdown of TREML2 Alleviates Neuropathological Hallmarks and Cognitive 
Deficiency in a Model of Sporadic Alzheimer's Disease.

Fu XX(#)(1)(2), Huang ZH(#)(1), Wang SY(#)(1), Qi JW(1), Luo ZJ(3), E Y(1), 
Zhang YD(1), Jiang T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Nanjing First Hospital, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Nanjing First Hospital, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, People's Republic of China.
(3)The First School of Clinical Medicine, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 
People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: Recently, we revealed that triggering receptor expressed on myeloid 
cells-like 2 (TREML2) modulated inflammation by regulating microglial 
polarization and NLRP3 inflammasome activation. However, the role of TREML2 in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis remains poorly understood. In this study, 
we tried to observe the impact of TREML2 on neuropathological hallmarks 
(including amyloid-β (Aβ) pathology, hyperphosphorylated tau and 
neuroinflammation) and cognitive deficiency in senescence-accelerated mouse 
prone substrain 8 (SAMP8) mice, an animal model of sporadic AD.
METHODS: A lentiviral-based strategy was employed to manipulate TREML2 levels in 
the brain of SAMP8 mice. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to detect 
the protein levels of inflammatory cytokines, Aβ42 and hyperphosphorylated tau. 
The mRNA levels of microglial polarization markers were assessed by qRT-PCR. 
Morris water maze test was performed to evaluate the spatial cognitive 
functions.
RESULTS: TREML2 overexpression elevated inflammatory cytokines levels, induced 
microglial M1-type polarization, and exacerbated Aβ and tau pathology in SAMP8 
mice. Contrastingly, knocking down TREML2 mitigated inflammatory cytokines 
release, promoted microglial M2-type polarization, ameliorated Aβ and tau 
pathology, and rescued cognitive deficiency in SAMP8 mice.
CONCLUSION: This study offers the first in vivo evidence that TREML2 contributes 
to the pathogenesis of AD. Furthermore, this study also proves that inhibition 
of TREML2 signaling may represent a potential treatment strategy for this 
disease.

© 2024 Fu et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S489474
PMCID: PMC11627106
PMID: 39654855

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.