1. Life Sci. 2025 Apr 1;366-367:123484. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2025.123484. Epub 2025
 Feb 19.

The lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2-macroautophagy pathway is involved 
in the regulatory effects of hippocampal aromatase on Aβ accumulation and 
AD-like behavior.

Sun M(1), Cai X(2), Lan Z(3), Liu M(4), Zhou M(5), Tang Y(6), Liu Y(7), Zhang 
X(5), Zhao X(8), Zhou Y(8), Zhang J(9), Meng Z(10).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, 
Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing 100853, China; Department of 
Neurology, Xinqiao Hospital, Army Medical University, Chongqing 400037, China.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, Army Medical University, Chongqing 400038, China; 
School of Life Sciences, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, Army Medical University, Chongqing 400038, China; 
Department of General Surgery, General Hospital of Central Theater Command, 
Wuhan 430000, China.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, Army Medical University, Chongqing 400038, China; 
The 305 Hospital of PLA, Beijing 100017, China.
(5)Department of Neurobiology, Army Medical University, Chongqing 400038, China.
(6)College of Letters and Science, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, 
United States.
(7)School of Life Sciences, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.
(8)Department of Neurology, Xinqiao Hospital, Army Medical University, Chongqing 
400037, China.
(9)Department of Neurobiology, Army Medical University, Chongqing 400038, China. 
Electronic address: zhqngjiqiang@tmmu.edu.cn.
(10)Department of Neurology, Xinqiao Hospital, Army Medical University, 
Chongqing 400037, China. Electronic address: mengzhaoyou@tmmu.edu.cn.

AIMS: Hippocampal aromatase (AROM) knockdown induces Aβ accumulation and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like spatial learning and memory impairment, and early 
hippocampal AROM overexpression in APP/PS1 mice prevents Aβ deposition and 
memory loss later in life. The aim of this study was to elucidate the underlying 
mechanism and provide novel prevention and treatment targets for AD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: AROM-inhibiting viral vectors were constructed and 
injected into the hippocampi of adult female mice, after which label-free 
LC-MS/MS proteomics and bioinformatics analysis were conducted. Additional viral 
vectors targeting LAMP2 or LC3 were constructed and used to treat HT22 cells. 
LAMP2 expression was verified, and macroautophagy levels, autophagosome 
formation and Aβ accumulation were examined. Additionally, ovariectomy combined 
with the hippocampal injection of LAMP2 inhibition/overexpression viral vectors 
was applied, and learning and memory abilities and Aβ accumulation were 
examined.
KEY FINDINGS: Proteomics revealed the enrichment of CMA and autophagy, and LAMP2 
was the most significantly upregulated protein. Higher LAMP2 levels were 
correlated with lower macroautophagy and autophagosomes levels but were 
correlated with higher Aβ accumulation, and vice versa. Additionally, 
hippocampal LAMP2 mediated the effects of ovariectomy on spatial memory and Aβ 
accumulation.
SIGNIFICANCE: These results demonstrated the important role of the hippocampal 
LAMP2-macroautophagy pathway in mediating both hippocampal and ovarian estrogen 
regulation of Aβ accumulation and AD-like behavior, indicating that LAMP2 might 
be a novel target for both hippocampal and circulating estrogen 
deficiency-associated memory impairments, such as AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2025.123484
PMID: 39983826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. Exp Gerontol. 2025 Apr;202:112715. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2025.112715. Epub 2025
 Feb 22.

The causal relationship of inflammation-related factors with osteoporosis: A 
Mendelian Randomization Analysis.

Yang X(1), Xiao R(2), Liu B(3), Xie B(4), Yang Z(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Yongchuan Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing Medical University, China.
(2)Department of General Practice, Yongchuan Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing Medical University, China.
(3)Central Laboratory of Yongchuan Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, 
China.
(4)Department of General Practice, Yongchuan Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing Medical University, China. Electronic address: 
cqmuxiebo@163.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, Yongchuan Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing Medical University, China. Electronic address: yangzhao5140@sohu.com.

BACKGROUND: We used Mendelian randomization (MR) approach to examine whether 
genetically determined inflammation-related risk factors play a role in the 
onset of osteoporosis (OP) in the European population.
METHODS: Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) summary statistics of estimated 
bone mineral density (eBMD) obtained from the public database GEnetic Factors 
for OSteoporosis Consortium (GEFOS) including 142,487 European people. For 
exposures, we utilized GWAS data of 9 risk factors including diseases chronic 
kidney disease (CKD) (41,395 cases and 439,303 controls), type 2 diabetes (T2D) 
(88,427 cases and 566,778 controls), Alzheimer's disease (AD) (71,880 cases, 
383,378 controls) and major depression disorder (MDD) (9240 cases and 9519 
controls) and lifestyle behaviors are from different consortiums. Inverse 
variance weighted (IVW) analysis was principal method in this study and random 
effect model was applied; MR-Egger method and weighted median method were also 
performed for reliable results. Cochran's Q test and MR-Egger regression were 
used to detect heterogeneity and pleiotropy and leave-one-out analysis was 
performed to find out whether there are influential SNPs.
RESULTS: We found that T2D (IVW: β = 0.05, P = 0.0014), FI (IVW: β = -0.22, 
P < 0.001), CKD (IVW: β = 0.02, P = 0.009), ALZ (IVW: β = 0.06, P = 0.005), 
Coffee consumption (IVW: β = 0.11, P = 0.003) were causally associated with OP 
(P<0.006after Bonferroni correction).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study revealed that T2D, FI, CKD, ALZ and coffee consumption 
are causally associated with OP. Future interventions targeting factors above 
could provide new clinical strategies for the personalized prevention and 
treatment of osteoporosis.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2025.112715
PMID: 39983802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Xinyue Yang, 
Rui Xiao, Beizhong Liu, Bo Xie, Zhao Yang declare that they have no conflict of 
interest.


3. Lancet Public Health. 2025 Mar;10(3):e172-e188. doi: 
10.1016/S2468-2667(25)00009-X. Epub 2025 Feb 18.

Changing life expectancy in European countries 1990-2021: a subanalysis of 
causes and risk factors from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2021.

GBD 2021 Europe Life Expectancy Collaborators.

Collaborators: Steel N, Bauer-Staeb CMM, Ford JA, Abbafati C, Abdalla MA, 
Abdelkader A, Abdi P, Abeldaño Zuñiga RA, Abiodun OO, Abolhassani H, 
Abu-Gharbieh E, Abukhadijah HJ, Abu-Zaid A, Addo IY, Addolorato G, Adekanmbi V, 
Adetunji JB, Adeyeoluwa TE, Agardh EE, Agyemang-Duah W, Ahmad D, Ahmed A, Ahmed 
A, Ahmed SA, Akinosoglou K, Akkaif MA, Al Awaidy S, Al Hasan SM, Al Zaabi OAM, 
Aldridge RW, Algammal AM, Al-Gheethi AAS, Ali A, Ali MU, Ali SS, Ali W, 
Alicandro G, Alif SM, Al-Jumaily A, Allebeck P, Alrawashdeh A, Al-Rifai RH, 
Alsabri MA, Alshahrani NZ, Aluh DO, Al-Wardat M, Al-Zyoud WA, Amiri S, Anderlini 
D, Andrei CL, Anil A, Anvari S, Anyasodor AE, Appiah SCY, Aquilano M, Arabloo J, 
Arafat M, Areda D, Aremu A, Armani K, Armocida B, Ärnlöv J, Asaduzzaman M, 
Astell-Burt T, Aujayeb A, Ausloos M, Azadnajafabad S, Aziz S, Azzam AY, Babu GR, 
Badache AC, Badiye AD, Bahramian S, Baig AA, Baker JL, Bansal H, Bärnighausen 
TW, Barone MTU, Barrow A, Barteit S, Bashir S, Bashiru HA, Basso JD, Bastan MM, 
Basu S, Batra K, Bauckneht M, Baune BT, Beghi M, Beiranvand M, Béjot Y, Bell ML, 
Bello OO, Belo L, Beloukas A, Beneke AA, Bettencourt PJG, Bhagavathula AS, Bhala 
N, Bhaskar S, Bisulli F, Bjørge T, Bodunrin AO, Botero Carvajal A, Bouaoud S, 
Brayne C, Brenner H, Briggs ADM, Briko NI, Bugiardini R, Buonsenso D, Busse R, 
Bustanji Y, Caetano Dos Santos FL, Çakmak Barsbay M, Capodici A, Carreras G, 
Carugno A, Carvalho F, Carvalho M, Castaldelli-Maia JM, Castelpietra G, Catapano 
AL, Cattaruzza MS, Cegolon L, Cenko E, Cerin E, Cerrai S, Chaudhary AA, Chong B, 
Choudhari SG, Chu DT, Chukwu IS, Chung SC, Cioffi I, Conde J, Cortese S, Couto 
RAS, Criqui MH, Cruz-Martins N, Dadras O, Dallat MAT, D'Amico E, D'Anna L, 
Darcho SD, Dargan PI, Das S, de la Torre-Luque A, Del Bo' C, Demetriades AK, 
Dervenis N, Devleesschauwer B, Dhali A, Dhama K, Dianatinasab M, Diaz MJ, 
Dongarwar D, D'Oria M, Doshi OP, Dowou RK, Duraisamy S, Durojaiye OC, Dziedzic 
AM, Edvardsson D, Edvardsson K, Eikemo TA, Ekholuenetale M, Ekundayo TC, El Arab 
RA, Elgar FJ, Elhadi M, Eltaha C, Esposito F, Fabin N, Fagbamigbe AF, Fagbule 
OF, Fakhri-Demeshghieh A, Falzone L, Farinha CSES, Faris PS, Fasina FO, Fazeli 
P, Fazylov T, Feizkhah A, Fekadu G, Feng X, Fereshtehnejad SM, Ferrante D, 
Ferrara P, Ferreira N, Fetensa G, Fischer F, Fonzo M, Fornari A, Fortuna D, 
Fortuna Rodrigues C, Foschi M, Fox SS, Freitas A, Fukumoto T, Gadanya MA, Gallus 
S, Galluzzo L, Ganesan B, Ganiyani MA, Gao X, Garcia-Gordillo MA, Gazzelloni F, 
Gebregergis MW, Gebremeskel TG, Ghadimi DJ, Ghailan KY, Ghith N, Gholami E, 
Gialluisi A, Gill PS, Gillam T, Giussani G, Glasbey JC, Glenn SD, Göbölös L, 
Goldust M, Golechha M, Goleij P, Golinelli D, Gorini G, Graham SM, Griebler R, 
Grover A, Guicciardi S, Gunturu S, Gupta VK, Gutiérrez-Murillo RS, Habteyohannes 
AD, Haep N, Hai Nam N, Haller S, Hamoudi R, Handanagic S, Haro JM, Hasani H, 
Hasnain MS, Havmoeller RJ, Hay SI, Hebert JJ, Heibati B, Hilderink HBM, Hiraike 
Y, Hoan NQ, Hosseinzadeh M, Hostiuc S, Hoven H, Hu C, Huang J, Hughes A, 
Hultström M, Hushmandi K, Hussain J, Hussain MA, Ikiroma A, Inok A, Islam MR, 
Islam SMS, Isola G, Iyer M, Jacob L, Jahrami H, Jairoun AA, Jaka S, Jakovljevic 
M, Jawaid T, Jeswani BM, Jonas JB, Joshua CE, Kaambwa B, Kabir Z, Kadir DHH, 
Kamath R, Kanmodi KK, Kapoor N, Karakasis P, Karanikolos M, Karaye IM, Kauppila 
JH, Kazemian S, Kesse-Guyot E, Khamesipour F, Khan A, Khanmohammadi S, Khatab K, 
Khatatbeh MM, Khormali M, Khosla AA, Khosravi M, Khosrowjerdi M, Khubchandani J, 
Kim K, Kim MS, Kisa A, Kisa S, Knudsen AKS, Koren G, Kuddus MA, Kuitunen I, 
Kulimbet M, Kumar R, Kunutsor SK, Kurmi OP, Kusuma D, Kytö V, La Vecchia C, Lai 
H, Lallukka T, Lanfranchi F, Langguth B, Laplante-Lévesque A, Larson HJ, Larsson 
AO, Lee M, Lee PH, Lee SW, Lee WC, Lindholm D, Linehan C, Liu X, Llanaj E, 
López-Gil JF, Lorkowski S, Lucchetti G, Lugo A, Lunevicius R, Luo L, M Amin HI, 
Ma ZF, Machairas N, Machoy M, Malhotra K, Malik AA, Mansour A, Manu E, Marateb 
HR, Martini D, Martorell M, Marzo RR, Mathangasinghe Y, Mathur M, Matozinhos FP, 
Maude RJ, Maugeri A, May J, Mayeli M, Mazidi M, McKee M, Mechili EA, Mehravar S, 
Mekene Meto T, Meles HN, Mentis AA, Meretoja A, Meretoja TJ, Mettananda S, Micha 
G, Michalek IM, Miller TR, Minervini G, Mirijello A, Mocciaro G, Moghadam Fard 
A, Mohamed J, Mohamed NS, Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Mohammed S, Monasta L, 
Mondello S, Moni MA, Moraga P, Morawska L, Mossie TB, Motappa R, Mubarik S, 
Muccioli L, Mueller UO, Mughal F, Mulita F, Munblit D, Munkhsaikhan Y, Murray 
CJL, Naghavi M, Naghavi P, Naik GR, Najdaghi S, Naqvi AA, Narimani Davani D, 
Nascimento GG, Naser AY, Nashwan AJ, Nauman J, Navaratna SNK, Nazri-Panjaki A, 
Nejjari C, Nena E, Netsere HB, Nguyen AH, Nguyen PT, Nguyen VT, Nnyanzi LA, Noor 
STA, Nouri M, Nugen F, Nurchis MC, Nzoputam OJ, Oancea B, O'Donnell MJ, Oduro 
MS, Ogundijo OA, Ogunsakin RE, Okeke SR, Okonji OC, Olagunju AT, Oliver S, 
Olufadewa II, Ortiz A, Owolabi MO, P A MP, Padubidri JR, Palma-Alvarez RFF, 
Panda SK, Panda-Jonas S, Panos GD, Panos LD, Pantazopoulos I, Pardhan S, Parikh 
RR, Passera R, Patil S, Patoulias D, Pawar S, Pensato U, Pereira G, Perico N, 
Perna S, Petermann-Rocha FE, Pham HN, Philip AK, Pierannunzio D, Pigeolet M, 
Pisoni E, Poddighe D, Poluru R, Postma MJ, Pradhan J, Pupillo E, Puvvula J, 
Raggi A, Rahman M, Rahman MA, Raimondo D, Raimondo I, Ramasamy SK, Ramazanu S, 
Rana RK, Rao SJ, Rasella D, Rashid AM, Rauniyar SK, Rautalin I, Rawaf DL, Rawaf 
S, Reddy MMRK, Redwan EMMM, Reifels L, Remuzzi G, Rezaeian M, Ribeiro AI, Rijal 
A, Rodriguez JAB, Romoli M, Ronfani L, Root KT, Rout HS, Roy N, Russo M, Saad 
AMA, Sabet CJ, Sachdeva Dhingra M, Saeed U, Safari M, Safdarian M, Saleh MA, 
Salem MZY, Salum GA, Samuel VP, Samy AM, Saravanan A, Saravi B, Sarkar C, Saulam 
J, Scarmeas N, Schaarschmidt BM, Schinckus C, Schlaich MP, Schmidt JC, 
Schuermans A, Schumacher AE, Schwendicke F, Schwinger C, Sepanlou SG, Shafie M, 
Shahsavari HR, Shaikh MA, Shakil H, Sham S, Shamim MA, Sharew NT, Sharifan A, 
Shavandi A, Shenoy RR, Shetty M, Shetty PH, Shetty PK, Shigematsu M, Shittu A, 
Shiue I, Shorofi SA, Shrestha R, Shrestha R, Siddig EE, Silva JP, Silva LMLR, 
Silva S, Singh P, Singh S, Sipilä JOT, Skryabina AA, Sokhan A, Soraneh S, 
Soriano JB, Soyiri IN, Spartalis M, Steiropoulos P, Stockfelt L, Sun J, 
Sundström J, Sunkersing D, Sunnerhagen KS, Swain CK, Szarpak L, T Y SS, Tabaee 
Damavandi P, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Tabatabaei SM, Tabche C, Tabibi R, Taiba J, 
Tanwar M, Tat NY, Taveira N, Temsah MH, Thayakaran R, Tiruye TY, Touvier M, 
Tovani-Palone MR, Tran JT, Tran NH, Tran TH, Trico D, Tromans SJ, Tsermpini EE, 
Tudor Car L, Tumurkhuu M, Ullah S, Unim B, Vaithinathan AG, Valenti M, Van den 
Eynde J, Varga O, Vasankari TJ, Vellingiri B, Veroux M, Vervoort D, Villafañe 
JH, Violante FS, Vizzielli G, Vodden A, Vollset SE, Vos T, Wafa HA, Wang Y, 
Wassie EG, Weerakoon KG, Westerman R, Wickramasinghe ND, Willeit P, Wojewodzic 
MW, Wolf AW, Wolfe CDA, Wyper GMA, Xu X, Yasufuku Y, Yaya S, Yezli S, YiÄŸit A, 
Yon DK, Yu C, Zakham F, Zanghì A, Zastrozhin M, Zeariya MGM, Zhang L, Zhang Z, 
Zhong CC, Zhu B, Ziafati M, Zielińska M, Zweck E, Zyoud SH, Newton JN.

BACKGROUND: Decades of steady improvements in life expectancy in Europe slowed 
down from around 2011, well before the COVID-19 pandemic, for reasons which 
remain disputed. We aimed to assess how changes in risk factors and 
cause-specific death rates in different European countries related to changes in 
life expectancy in those countries before and during the COVID-19 pandemic.
METHODS: We used data and methods from the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, 
and Risk Factors Study 2021 to compare changes in life expectancy at birth, 
causes of death, and population exposure to risk factors in 16 European Economic 
Area countries (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, 
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, 
and Sweden) and the four UK nations (England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and 
Wales) for three time periods: 1990-2011, 2011-19, and 2019-21. Changes in life 
expectancy and causes of death were estimated with an established life 
expectancy cause-specific decomposition method, and compared with summary 
exposure values of risk factors for the major causes of death influencing life 
expectancy.
FINDINGS: All countries showed mean annual improvements in life expectancy in 
both 1990-2011 (overall mean 0·23 years [95% uncertainty interval [UI] 0·23 to 
0·24]) and 2011-19 (overall mean 0·15 years [0·13 to 0·16]). The rate of 
improvement was lower in 2011-19 than in 1990-2011 in all countries except for 
Norway, where the mean annual increase in life expectancy rose from 0·21 years 
(95% UI 0·20 to 0·22) in 1990-2011 to 0·23 years (0·21 to 0·26) in 2011-19 
(difference of 0·03 years). In other countries, the difference in mean annual 
improvement between these periods ranged from -0·01 years in Iceland (0·19 years 
[95% UI 0·16 to 0·21] vs 0·18 years [0·09 to 0·26]), to -0·18 years in England 
(0·25 years [0·24 to 0·25] vs 0·07 years [0·06 to 0·08]). In 2019-21, there was 
an overall decrease in mean annual life expectancy across all countries (overall 
mean -0·18 years [95% UI -0·22 to -0·13]), with all countries having an absolute 
fall in life expectancy except for Ireland, Iceland, Sweden, Norway, and 
Denmark, which showed marginal improvement in life expectancy, and Belgium, 
which showed no change in life expectancy. Across countries, the causes of death 
responsible for the largest improvements in life expectancy from 1990 to 2011 
were cardiovascular diseases and neoplasms. Deaths from cardiovascular diseases 
were the primary driver of reductions in life expectancy improvements during 
2011-19, and deaths from respiratory infections and other COVID-19 
pandemic-related outcomes were responsible for the decreases in life expectancy 
during 2019-21. Deaths from cardiovascular diseases and neoplasms in 2019 were 
attributable to high systolic blood pressure, dietary risks, tobacco smoke, high 
LDL cholesterol, high BMI, occupational risks, high alcohol use, and other risks 
including low physical activity. Exposure to these major risk factors differed 
by country, with trends of increasing exposure to high BMI and decreasing 
exposure to tobacco smoke observed in all countries during 1990-2021.
INTERPRETATION: The countries that best maintained improvements in life 
expectancy after 2011 (Norway, Iceland, Belgium, Denmark, and Sweden) did so 
through better maintenance of reductions in mortality from cardiovascular 
diseases and neoplasms, underpinned by decreased exposures to major risks, 
possibly mitigated by government policies. The continued improvements in life 
expectancy in five countries during 2019-21 indicate that these countries were 
better prepared to withstand the COVID-19 pandemic. By contrast, countries with 
the greatest slowdown in life expectancy improvements after 2011 went on to have 
some of the largest decreases in life expectancy in 2019-21. These findings 
suggest that government policies that improve population health also build 
resilience to future shocks. Such policies include reducing population exposure 
to major upstream risks for cardiovascular diseases and neoplasms, such as 
harmful diets and low physical activity, tackling the commercial determinants of 
poor health, and ensuring access to affordable health services.
FUNDING: Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-2667(25)00009-X
PMCID: PMC11876102
PMID: 39983748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests J Ärnlöv reports 
payment or honoraria for lectures from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, and 
Novartis; and participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board 
with AstraZeneca, Astella, and Boehringer Ingelheim; all outside the submitted 
work. T Bärnighausen reports grants or contracts paid to their institution from 
National Institutes of Health, Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, German 
National Research Foundation, EU, German Ministry of Education and Research, 
German Ministry of the Environment, Wellcome, and KfW; payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events from PLOS Medicine as Editor-in-Chief; participation on advisory boards 
for NIH-funded research projects in Africa on climate change and health, unpaid; 
and stock or stock options in the Climate Change and Health Evaluation and 
Response System (CHEERS), a small-to-medium-sized enterprise focusing on 
approaches to measure climate change and health-related variables in population 
cohorts; all outside the submitted work. J L Baker reports grants or contracts 
paid to their institution from Novo Nordisk Foundation, World Cancer Research 
Fund, Independent Research Council Denmark, and EU Horizon; consulting fees from 
Novo Nordisk; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events paid to their institution 
from Novo Nordisk; support for attending meetings and/or travel with the 
European Association for the Study of Obesity; participation on a data safety 
monitoring board or advisory board with Novo Nordisk, paid to their institution; 
and leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy 
groups, paid or unpaid, with the European Association for the Study of Obesity; 
all outside the submitted work. S Barteit reports support for attending meetings 
and/or travel with the Wellcome Trust; and stock or stock options with CHEERS; 
all outside the submitted work. M Beghi reports payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events from Angelini and Lundbeck, all outside the submitted work. Y Bejot 
reports consulting fees from Medtronic, Novartis, and Boehringer Ingelheim; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from BMS, Pfizer, Medtronic, Amgen, NovoNordisk, 
and Servier; support for attending meetings and/or travel with Medtronic; and 
leadership or fiduciary roles in other board, society, committee, or advocacy 
groups, unpaid, with the French Neurovascular Society; all outside the submitted 
work. M Bell reports grants or contracts paid to their institution from US EPA, 
NIH, Hutchinson Postdoctoral Fellowship, Health Effects Institute, Yale Women 
Faculty Forum, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Yale Institute for Biospheric 
Studies, and Wellcome Trust Foundation; consulting fees from Clinique and 
ToxiMap; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from Colorado School of Public Health, 
Duke University, University of Texas, Data4Justice, Korea University, University 
of Pennsylvania (for speaking), IOP Publishing (for editorial duties), NIH, 
Health Canada, EHS, PAC-10, UKRI, AXA Research Fund Fellowship, University of 
Texas (for grant review), Korea University (for research), Harvard University 
and University of Montana (on an external advisory committee), and SciQuest (for 
an online survey/workshop); support for attending meetings and/or travel from 
Colorado School of Public Health, University of Texas, Duke University, Harvard 
University, American Journal of Public Health, Columbia University, Harvard 
University, CMAS Conference, Nature Conference; and leadership or fiduciary 
roles in other board, society, committee, or advocacy groups from Fifth National 
Climate Assessment (unpaid), Lancet Countdown (unpaid), US EPA Clean Air 
Scientific Advisory Committee (paid), Johns Hopkins EHE Advisory Board (unpaid), 
Harvard External Advisory Committee for a training grant (unpaid), WHO Global 
Air Pollution and Health Technical Advisory Group (unpaid), National Academies 
Panels and Committees (unpaid); all outside the submitted work. L Belo reports 
support from FCT in the scope of the project UIDP/04378/2020 and UIDB/04378/2020 
of UCIBIO and the project LA/P/0140/2020 of i4HB. A Beloukas reports grants or 
contracts paid to the University of West Attica from Gilead and GSK/ViiV; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events paid to the University of West Attica from Gilead 
and GSK; support for attending meetings and/or travel paid to the University of 
West Attica from Gilead and GSK; and receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, 
medical writing, gifts or other services from Cepheid in the form of FOC 
reagents for a research project; all outside the submitted work. P J G 
Bettencourt reports patents planned, issued or pending (numbers WO2020229805A1, 
BR112021022592A2, EP3965809A1, OA1202100511, US2023173050A1, EP4265271A2, 
EP4275700A2); and other support from Botnar Foundation as a project reviewer; 
all outside the submitted work. S Bhaskar reports grants or contracts from the 
Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS), Japanese Ministry of 
Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (for a Grant-in-Aid for 
Scientific Research, grant ID: 23KF0126) and from JSPS and the Australian 
Academy of Science for a JSPS International Fellowship (grant ID: P23712); and 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, 
paid or unpaid, with Rotary District 9675, Sydney, Australia, as the District 
Chair (Diversity, Equity & Inclusion), with the Global Health & Migration Hub 
Community, Global Health Hub Germany, Berlin, Germany (Chair, Founding Member 
and Manager), with PLOS One, BMC Neurology, Frontiers in Neurology, Frontiers in 
Stroke, Frontiers in Public Health, Journal of Aging Research, Neurology 
International, Diagnostics, and BMC Medical Research Methodology (Editorial 
Board Member), with the College of Reviewers, Canadian Institutes of Health 
Research, Government of Canada (Member), with the World Headache Society, 
Bengaluru, India (Director of Research), with the Cariplo Foundation, Milan, 
Italy (Expert Adviser/Reviewer), with the National Cerebral and Cardiovascular 
Center, Department of Neurology, Suita, Osaka, Japan (Visiting Director), with 
Cardiff University Biobank, Cardiff, UK (Member, Scientific Review Committee), 
and with the Rotary Reconciliation Action Plan (Chair); all outside the 
submitted work. A L Catapano reports grants or contracts from Amryt Pharma, 
Menarini, and Ultragenyx; consulting fees from Menarini–Menarini Ricerche and 
Sanofi; and payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from Amarin Amgen Amryt Pharma, 
Astrazeneca, Daiichi Sankyo Esperion Ionis Pharmaceutical Medscaper, Menarini, 
Merck, Novartis, NovoNordisk, Peervoice Pfizer Recordati Regeneron, Sandoz, 
Sanofi The Corpus, Ultragenyx, and Viatris; all outside the submitted work. J 
Conde reports grants or contracts from the European Research Council Starting 
Grant (ERC-StG-2019-848325); and patents planned, issued, or pending with 
Universidade Nova de Lisboa (Surfactant-Based Hydrogel, Methods and Uses 
Thereof); all outside the submitted work. S Cortese reports grants or contracts 
from NIHR and the European Research Agency; and payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events from the British Association of Psychopharmacology, Canadian ADHD 
Resource Alliance, Medice, and the Association for Child and Adolescent Mental 
Health; all outside the submitted work. S Das reports leadership or fiduciary 
roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid, with the 
Association for Diagnostics and Laboratory Medicine (ADLM; Program Chair), with 
the Academy Membership Committee of ADLM (Member), ADLM Genomics Division 
(General Secretary), and CLSI USA (Member of Expert Committee and Nominating 
Committee), all outside the submitted work. A K Demetriades reports 
non-fiduciary leadership roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, 
paid or unpaid, with the European Association of Neurosurgical Societies 
(Immediate Past President) and the Global Neuro Foundation (Vice-President), all 
outside the submitted work. T C Ekundayo reports grants or contracts from the 
University of South Africa outside the submitted work. S-M Fereshtehnejad 
reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from Health Advances and the European 
Science Foundation, outside the submitted work. N Ghith reports grants or 
contracts from the Novo Nordisk Foundation (NNF16OC0021856) for her salary 
during her employment at the Technical University of Denmark between 2019 and 
2022; and support for attending meetings and/or travel from the Danish Data 
Science Institute at the Technical University of Denmark; all outside the 
submitted work. P Gill reports support for the present manuscript from the UK 
NIHR Senior Investigator Award paid to the University of Warwick. M Hultström 
reports support for the present manuscript from the Swedish Heart Lung 
Foundation and the Knut och Alice Wallenberg Foundation, paid to their 
institution. M Hultström also reports payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
the Swedish Society of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care; support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from the American Physiological Society and the Swedish 
Intensive Care Society; and leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, 
committee, or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid, with the American Physiological 
Society (Programming Committee); all outside the submitted work. B Langguth 
reports grants or contracts paid to their institution from the EU's Horizon 2020 
Research and Innovation Programme, German Research Foundation, German 
Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung, EU, Bavarian-Czech University 
Association, and the Bavarian State; consulting fees from Schwabe, Neuromod, Sea 
Pharma, and Rovi; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from Schwabe, Neuromod, 
Medical Tribune, and Streamed Up; payment for expert testimony from the Bavarian 
State; support for attending meetings and/or travel from the EU UNITI project; 
has received funding from the EU's Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation 
Programme (Grant Agreement Number 848261) and Rovi; leadership or fiduciary 
roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, unpaid, with Tinnitus 
Research Initiative, German Society for Brain Stimulation in Psychiatry, and 
Retex; stock or stock options with Sea Pharma; and receipt of equipment, 
materials, drugs, medical writing, gifts, or other services paid to their 
institution from Neurocare and Daymed; all outside the submitted work. H J 
Larson reports grants or contracts from Gates Foundation, GSK, and NIHR paid to 
LSHTM; consulting fees from ApiJect as strategy adviser and Gates MRI for 
vaccine confidence/acceptance research and advising; honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
Merrimon Honaray Lectureship; support for travel from the 2024 Asia Philanthropy 
Forum and the 2024 Science Technology Society Forum; and leadership or fiduciary 
roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, unpaid, with PATH Board 
of Directors; all outside the submitted work. M Lee reports support for the 
present manuscript from the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Korea and 
the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF-2023S1A3A2A05095298). D Lindholm 
reports stock or stock options with AstraZeneca during time of prior employment 
and other support from Astra Zeneca as a prior employee, all outside the 
submitted work. S Lorkowski reports grants or contracts paid to their 
institution from DSM-Firmenich (formerly DSM Nutritional Products); consulting 
fees from Danone, Novartis Pharma, and Swedish Orphan Biovitrum; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from AMARIN Germany, Amedes Holding, AMGEN, Berlin-Chemie, 
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, Daiichi Sankyo Deutschland, Danone, Hubert Burda 
Media Holding, Janssen-Cilag, Lilly Deutschland, Novartis Pharma, Novo Nordisk 
Pharma, Roche Pharma, Sanofi-Aventis, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, and SYNLAB 
Holding Deutschland; support for attending meetings and/or travel from AMGEN; 
and participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board with 
AMGEN, Daiichi Sankyo Deutschland, Novartis Pharma, and Sanofi-Aventis; all 
outside the submitted work. H R Marateb reports grants or contracts paid to 
their institution from the Beatriu de Pinós post-doctoral program from the 
Office of the Secretary of Universities and Research from the Ministry of 
Business and Knowledge of the Government of Catalonia (programme number 2020 BP 
00261), outside the submitted work. R J Maude reports support for the present 
manuscript from the Wellcome Trust (grant number 220211) as it provides core 
funding for Mahidol Oxford Tropical Medicine Research and contributes to his 
salary. He is required by Wellcome to acknowledge this grant in all 
publications. A-F Mentis reports grants or contracts from MilkSafe: a novel 
pipeline to enrich formula milk using omics technologies, which was research 
co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund of the EU and Greek 
national funds through the Operational Program Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship 
and Innovation, under the call RESEARCH–CREATE–INNOVATE (project code 
T2EDK-02222), as well as from ELIDEK (Hellenic Foundation for Research and 
Innovation, MIMS-860), both outside of the present manuscript; payment for 
expert testimony from Fondazione Capiplo, Italy, as an external peer-reviewer; 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, 
paid or unpaid, with Systematic Reviews, with Annals of Epidemiology as 
Editorial Board Member, and with Translational Psychiatry as Associate Editor; 
stock or stock options in a family winery; and other support as senior 
scientific officer at BGI Group, Shenzhen, China; all outside the submitted 
work. L Monasta reports support for the present manuscript from the Italian 
Ministry of Health (Ricerca Corrente 34/2017) via payments made to the Institute 
for Maternal and Child Health IRCCS Burlo Garofolo. F Mughal reports support for 
the present manuscript from an NIHR Doctoral Fellowship (award number 300957). A 
Ortiz reports grants from Sanofi paid to their institution IIS-FJD Universidad 
Autonoma de Madrid (UAM), and is Director of the Catedra Mundipharma-UAM of 
diabetic kidney disease and the Catedra Astrazeneca-UAM of chronic kidney 
disease and electrolytes; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from Advicciene, 
Astellas, Astrazeneca, Amicus, Amgen, Fresenius Medical Care, GSK, Bayer, 
Sanofi-Genzyme, Menarini, Kyowa Kirin, Alexion, Idorsia, Chiesi, Otsuka, 
Novo-Nordisk, and Vifor Fresenius Medical Care Renal Pharma; support for 
attending meetings and/travel from Advicciene, Astellas, Astrazeneca, Fresenius 
Medical Care, Boehringer-Ingelheim Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, Menarini, Chiesi, 
Otsuka, and Sysmex; participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory 
board with Astellas, Astrazeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Fresenius Medical Care, 
Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, Idorsia, Chiesi, Otsuka, Novo Nordisk, and Sysmex; and 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, 
unpaid, with the ERA Council and SOMANE; all outside the submitted work. R F 
Palma-Alvarez reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from Angelini, Casen 
Recordati, Lundbeck, Neuraxpharm, Rubió, Servier, and Takeda; and support for 
attending meetings and/or travel from Angelini, Italfarmaco, Advanz Pharma, 
Takeda, and Lundbeck; all outside the submitted work. S K Panda reports support 
for the present manuscript via salary from Siksha ‘O’ Anusandhan (Deemed to be 
University). S K Panda also reports grants or contracts from the Science & 
Technology Department, Government of Odisha (Letter Number 3444/ST) outside the 
submitted work. R Passera reports being a member of the data safety monitoring 
board of the clinical trial Consolidation with ADCT-402 (loncastuximab tesirine) 
after immunochemotherapy: a phase II study in BTKi-treated/ineligible 
relapse/refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients, sponsor Fondazione 
Italiana Linfomi, Alessandria; and leadership or fiduciary roles in board, 
society, committee, or advocacy groups as member of the EBMT Statistical 
Committee, European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Paris, France 
(unpaid), and as a past member (2020-2023, biostatistician) of the IRB/IEC 
Comitato Etico AO SS Antonio e Biagio Alessandria-ASL AL-VC (paid reimbursement 
of expenses); all outside the submitted work. L Ronfani reports support for the 
present manuscript from the Italian Ministry of Health (Ricerca Corrente 
34/2017), via payments made to the Institute for Maternal and Child Health IRCCS 
Burlo Garofolo. N Scarmeas reports grants or contracts from Novo Nordisk as 
local Principal Investigator of a recruiting site for a multinational, 
multicenter industry sponsored phase III treatment trial for Alzheimer's disease 
(funding to institution); and participation on a data safety monitoring board or 
advisory board with an Albert Einstein College of Medicine NIH-funded study 
Multicultural healthy diet to reduce cognitive decline & AD risk (Chair of Data 
Safety Monitoring Board), and with a Primus-AD public-private-funded phase II 
study in Germany (Data Safety Monitoring Board Member; unpaid); all outside the 
submitted work. B M Schaarschmidt reports grants or contracts from Else 
Kröner-Fresenius Foundation, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, and PharmaCept; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from AstraZeneca; and support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from Bayer AG; all outside the submitted work. J P Silva 
reports support for the present manuscript from the Portuguese Foundation for 
Science and Technology via payment of salary (contract with reference 
2021.01789.CEECIND/CP1662/CT0014). L M L R Silva reports a research contract 
with Instituto Politécnico of Guarda, Portugal outside the submitted work. J 
Sipilä reports grants or contracts from Siun Sote Foundation and Maire Taponen 
Foundation; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from Novartis; support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from Lundbeck; participation on a data safety monitoring 
board or advisory board with Boehringer-Ingelheim and Sandoz; and stock or stock 
options in Orion Corp; all outside the submitted work. J B Soriano reports 
support for the present manuscript via JBS and has received pharmaceutical 
company grants from 2020 to 2024 from Chiesi, GSK, Linde, and Novartis via 
Hospital Universitario de La Princesa. J B Soriano also participated in speaking 
activities, advisory committees, and consultancies from 2020 to 2024 sponsored 
by Air Liquide, Almirall, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, CHEST, Chiesi, 
CNPT, ERS, FTH, Gebro, Grifols, GSK, IHME, Laminar Pharma, Linde, Lipopharma, 
Menarini, Mundipharma, Novartis, OMS/WHO, Pfizer, ResApp, RiRL, ROVI, SEPAR, 
Seqirus, WHO EUR, Takeda, and Zambon. J B Soriano declares never, directly or 
indirectly, received any funding from tobacco manufacturers or their affiliates. 
J Sundström reports direct or indirect stock ownership in companies (Anagram 
Kommunikation, Sence Research, Symptoms Europe, MinForskning) providing services 
to companies and authorities in the health sector including Amgen, AstraZeneca, 
Bayer, Boehringer, Eli Lilly, Gilead, GSK, Göteborg University, Itrim, Ipsen, 
Janssen, Karolinska Institutet, LIF, Linköping University, Novo Nordisk, 
Parexel, Pfizer, Region Stockholm, Region Uppsala, Sanofi, STRAMA, Takeda, TLV, 
Uppsala University, Vifor Pharma, WeMind, all outside the submitted work. R 
Tabarés-Seisdedos reports grants or contracts from the Valencian Regional 
Government's Ministry of Education (PROMETEO/CIPROM/2022/58) and the Spanish 
Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities (PID2021-129099OB-I00) outside 
the submitted work. D Trico reports support for attending meetings and/or travel 
from AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly, and Novo Nordisk; participation on a data safety 
monitoring board or advisory board with Amarin and Boehringer Ingelheim; and 
receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing, gifts or other 
services, paid to their institution, from PharmaNutra and Abbott; all outside 
the submitted work. S J Tromans reports grants or contracts paid to their 
institution, the University of Leicester, from NHS Digital, via the Department 
of Health and Social Care as part of the 2023 Adult Psychiatric Morbidity Survey 
team collecting epidemiological data on community-based adults living in 
England; and leadership or fiduciary roles in other board, society, committee or 
advocacy groups, paid or unpaid, with the Neurodevelopmental Psychiatry Special 
Interest Group and Psychiatry of Intellectual Disability Faculty at the Royal 
College of Psychiatrist as Academic Secretary, with BMC Psychiatry, Advances in 
Autism, Advances in Mental Health and Intellectual Disability, and Progress in 
Neurology and Psychiatry as Editorial Board Member, and for Psychiatry of 
Intellectual Disability Across Cultures (Oxford University Press) as Editor; all 
outside the submitted work. P Willeit reports consulting fees from Novartis 
Pharmaceuticals outside the submitted work. Y Yasufuku reports grants or 
contracts from Shionogi & Co paid to their institution, Osaka University, 
outside the submitted work. M Zielińska reports other financial or non-financial 
interests as an AstraZeneca employee outside the submitted work. E Zweck reports 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from Abiomed outside the submitted work. All 
other authors declare no competing interests. The views expressed in this 
Article are those of the authors and not necessarily those of the NHS, NIHR, or 
the Department of Health and Social Care.


4. Stem Cell Reports. 2025 Mar 11;20(3):102420. doi:
10.1016/j.stemcr.2025.102420.  Epub 2025 Feb 20.

An efficient, non-viral arrayed CRISPR screening platform for iPSC-derived 
myeloid and microglia models.

Meier S(1), Larsen ASG(2), Wanke F(1), Mercado N(3), Mei A(4), Takacs L(1), 
Mracsko ES(1), Collin L(1), Kampmann M(5), Roudnicky F(6), Jagasia R(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharma Research and Early Development, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, 4070 Basel, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford 
OX1 3PT, England; Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, 
Oxford OX1 3RE, England.
(3)Pharma Research and Early Development, Immunology and Inflammation, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, 4070 Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Pharma Research and Early Development, Therapeutic Modalities, F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche Ltd, 4070 Basel, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Institute for Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA.
(6)Pharma Research and Early Development, Therapeutic Modalities, F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche Ltd, 4070 Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
filip.roudnicky@roche.com.

Here, we developed a CRISPR-Cas9 arrayed screen to investigate lipid handling 
pathways in human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived microglia. We 
established a robust method for the nucleofection of CRISPR-Cas9 
ribonucleoprotein complexes into iPSC-derived myeloid cells, enabling genetic 
perturbations. Using this approach, we performed a targeted screen to identify 
key regulators of lipid droplet formation dependent on Apolipoprotein E (APOE). 
We identify the Mammalian Target of Rapamycin Complex 1 (mTORC1) signaling 
pathway as a critical modulator of lipid storage in both APOE3 and APOE knockout 
microglia. This study is a proof of concept underscoring the utility of 
CRISPR-Cas9 technology in elucidating the molecular pathways of lipid 
dysregulation associated with Alzheimer's disease and neuroinflammation.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2025.102420
PMCID: PMC11960525
PMID: 39983727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests F.W., N.M., L.T., 
E.S.M., L.C., F.R., and R.J. are employees of F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd. S.M., 
A.S.G.L., and A.M. were employees of F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd at the time of the 
study. The design, research conduct, and financial support for this study were 
provided by F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd. F.R. and R.J. are shareholders of F. 
Hoffman-La Roche Ltd. M.K. is a co-scientific founder of Montara Therapeutics; 
serves on the scientific advisory boards of Engine Biosciences, Casma 
Therapeutics, Alector, Montara Therapeutics, and Neurocrine Biosciences; and is 
an advisor to Modulo Bio and Recursion Therapeutics. M.K. is an inventor on the 
US Patent 11,254,933 related to CRISPRi and CRISPRa screening.


5. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Feb 3;8(2):e2461219. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.61219.

Outcomes for Dual-Eligible Beneficiaries With Dementia in Special Needs Plans 
and Other Medicare Advantage Plans.

Xu W(1), Raver E(1), Carlin C(2), Feldman R(3), Retchin SM(4), Jung J(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Services Management and Policy, College of Public Health, 
The Ohio State University, Columbus.
(2)Department of Family Medicine and Community Health, School of Medicine, 
University of Minnesota, Twin Cities.
(3)Division of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, University 
of Minnesota, Twin Cities.
(4)Division of General Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, The Ohio State 
University, Columbus.
(5)Department of Health Administration and Policy, College of Public Health, 
George Mason University, Fairfax, Virginia.

IMPORTANCE: Alzheimer disease and related dementias (ADRD) are especially 
prevalent among Medicare-Medicaid dual-eligible beneficiaries-the clinical 
complexity of ADRD amplifies the challenges of managing chronic conditions and 
accessing care for dual-eligible beneficiaries, and the need to navigate the 
fragmented Medicare-Medicaid benefits adds to patients' burdens. Little is known 
about how enrollment in dual-eligible special needs plans (D-SNPs) that 
coordinate Medicare and Medicaid coverage is associated with health outcomes for 
dual-eligible beneficiaries with ADRD.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the associations between Medicare Advantage (MA) plan type 
and adverse medical events among dual-eligible beneficiaries with ADRD.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cross-sectional analysis used MA 
encounter data from 2016 to 2019. Participants included dual-eligible, 
community-dwelling Medicare beneficiaries aged 65 years and older with ADRD who 
enrolled in MA plans in 50 US states and Washington, DC. Data were analyzed from 
January to November 2024.
EXPOSURES: Enrollment in non-D-SNP Medicare Advantage plans and D-SNPs. The 
exposure variable for additional analyses included enrollment in fully 
integrated special needs plans (FIDE SNPs).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Preventable hospitalizations, 30-day all-cause 
readmissions, and avoidable emergency department (ED) visits.
RESULTS: Analysis included a total of 121 145 patients in non-D-SNP plans with 
an enrollment of 173 662 patient-years (mean [SD] age, 81.8 [7.8] years; 122 565 
female [70.6%]; 6078 Asian [3.5%], 34 150 Black [19.7%], 37 580 Hispanic 
[21.6%], 95 854 White [55.2%]) and 78 166 patients in D-SNP plans with an 
enrollment of 122 681 patient-years (mean [SD] age, 80.2 [8.0] years; 87 329 
female [71.2%]; 10 530 Asian [8.6%], 33 280 Black [27.1%], 43 294 Hispanic 
[35.3%], 35 577 White [29.0%]). Dual-eligible enrollees with ADRD had a 
preventable hospitalization rate of 10.8% (95% CI, 10.3%-11.4%), a 30-day 
readmission rate of 22.3% (95% CI, 21.6%-22.9%), and an avoidable ED visit rate 
of 21.1% (95% CI, 20.3-21.9) in D-SNPs. These rates were 11.1% (95% CI, 
10.7%-11.5%), 23.6% (95% CI, 22.9%-24.3%), and 20.8% (95% CI, 20.1%-21.6%) in 
non-D-SNP MA plans. There were no statistical differences in rates of 
preventable hospitalizations or avoidable ED visits between dual-eligible 
enrollees with ADRD in D-SNPs and those in non-D-SNP MA plans. Compared with 
non-D-SNPs, enrollees in FIDE SNPs had lower probabilities of preventable 
hospitalizations by 1.2 percentage points (95% CI, -2.7 to -0.2 percentage 
points) and 30-day readmissions by 7.2 percentage points (95% CI, -9.3 to -5.1 
percentage points).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Dual-eligible beneficiaries with ADRD enrolled in 
D-SNPs and non-D-SNP MA plans had similar rates of adverse events. Dual-eligible 
beneficiaries with ADRD may benefit from enrollment in more coordinated MA 
plans, such as FIDE SNPs, by lowering unnecessary hospitalizations.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.61219
PMCID: PMC11846004
PMID: 39982721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Feldman 
reported ownership of stock in Merck, Gilead Sciences, and Novo Nordisk outside 
the submitted work. Dr Retchin reported serving as director for Aveanna 
Healthcare, which delivers home health and hospice care, and for which he 
receives fees and equity as compensation. Dr Jung reported grants from National 
Institute of Health during the conduct of the study.


6. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2025 Feb 21:1-9. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2025.2469236. 
Online ahead of print.

Neuropsychology of Alzheimer's disease: From preclinical phase to dementia.

Soncu Büyükişcan E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Acibadem University, Turkey, Istanbul.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by significant cognitive and functional decline, initially 
presenting with episodic memory impairment. A thorough neuropsychological 
assessment is essential for AD diagnosis, particularly in the early stages in 
which interventions may be more effective. This paper reviews the 
neuropsychology of Alzheimer's disease, highlighting the cognitive progression 
of the disease. In the typical forms of AD, episodic memory appears to be the 
first and foremost affected cognitive domain. As AD progresses, cognitive 
impairments extend beyond memory to affect various domains such as attention, 
executive functions, language, and visuospatial abilities. Neuropsychiatric 
issues, such as depression and anxiety, which often accompany cognitive decline, 
are also common, especially at the advanced stages of the disease. While 
episodic memory impairment is the earliest and most prominent feature in typical 
AD cases, comprehensive assessments, including social cognition and 
neuropsychiatric evaluations, are crucial for accurate diagnosis and treatment 
planning.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2025.2469236
PMID: 39982692


7. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul;62(7):8166-8186. doi: 10.1007/s12035-024-04484-y. Epub
 2025 Feb 21.

Polypharmacology and Neuroprotective Effects of Gingerol in Alzheimer's Disease.

Priyadarshini S(#)(1), Goyal K(#)(1), R R(2), Gupta S(3), Roy A(#)(1), Biswas 
R(#)(1), Patra S(4), Chauhan P(5), Wadhwa K(5), Singh G(5), Kamal M(6), Iqbal 
D(7), Alsaweed M(8), Nuli MV(9), Abomughaid MM(10), Almutary AG(11), Sinha 
JK(12), Bansal P(13), Rani B(14), Walia C(15), Sivaprasad GV(16), Ojha S(17), 
Nelson VK(18), Jha NK(19)(20)(21).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biology, Ludwig Maximilian University, Großhaderner Straße 2-4, 
82152, Planegg Martinsried, Munich, Germany.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, School of Sciences, JAIN (Deemed to 
Be University), Bangalore, Karnataka, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, GLA University, Uttar Pradesh, Mathura, India.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Ram Lal Anand College, University of Delhi, 
Benito Juarez Marg, New Delhi, 110021, India.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Maharshi Dayanad University, Rohtak, 
Haryana, 124001, India.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam 
Bin Abdulaziz University, 11942, Al-Kharj, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Health Information Management, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Buraydah Private Colleges, 51418, Buraydah, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Majmaah University, 11952, Majmaah, Saudi Arabia.
(9)Raghavendra Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Anantapur, 
India.
(10)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, University of Bisha, 61922, Bisha, Saudi Arabia.
(11)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Health Sciences, Abu Dhabi 
University, P.O. Box 59911, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(12)GloNeuro, Sector 107, Vishwakarma Road, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201301, India.
(13)Department of Allied Healthcare and Sciences, Vivekananda Global University, 
Jaipur, Rajasthan, 303012, India.
(14)Department of Medicine, National Institute of Medical Sciences, NIMS 
University Rajasthan, Jaipur, India.
(15)Chandigarh Pharmacy College, Chandigarh Group of Colleges-Jhanjeri, Mohali, 
140307, Punjab, India.
(16)Department of Basic Science & Humanities, Raghu Engineering College, 
Visakhapatnam, India.
(17)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, College of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, P.O. Box 15551, Al Ain, United Arab 
Emirates.
(18)Department of Natural Products and Drug Discovery, Centre for global health 
research, Saveetha medical college and Hospital, Saveetha institute of medical 
and technical sciences, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. Vinod.kumar457@gmail.com.
(19)Department of Biotechnology & Bioengineering, School of Biosciences & 
Technology, Galgotias University, Greater Noida, India. 
nirajkumarjha2011@gmail.com.
(20)Centre for Research Impact & Outcome, Chitkara University Institute of 
Engineering and Technology, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, India. 
nirajkumarjha2011@gmail.com.
(21)School of Bioengineering & Biosciences, Lovely Professional University, 
Phagwara, 144411, India. nirajkumarjha2011@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition that results in brain 
shrinkage and the death of brain cells. The search for new treatment agents with 
many targets is now crucial due to the insufficient effectiveness, and adverse 
effects, including pharmacokinetic issues of traditional AD medications. 
Although phytochemicals have anti-disease characteristics and thus are widely 
used and accepted by people, researchers have also determined some of their most 
beneficial functions. Sesquiterpenes, volatile oils, and aromatic ketones 
(gingerols) are abundant in ginger. The most pharmacologically active components 
of ginger are considered to be gingerols. These gingerols are the compounds that 
impart spicy characteristics to the plant. Besides, gingerols readily undergo 
dehydration and produce another class of compounds, shogaols. These gingerols, 
shogaols, and other compounds, like zingerone, are mainly responsible for their 
distinctive aroma and pharmacological effects. This review aims to delineate the 
therapeutic potentials of gingerol in different AD models by assessing available 
literature reporting its effect on various cellular and molecular pathways. 
Although ginger is well recognized as a non-toxic nutraceutical, existing 
clinical research lacks robust evidence to support its efficacy in treating NDs, 
including AD. Clinical studies did not provide sufficient data that supports its 
use in treating various NDs including AD. Therefore, further research is 
essential to establish the safety and effectiveness of ginger and its 
constituents, ultimately paving the way for its development as a potential 
therapeutic agent for AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-024-04484-y
PMID: 39982688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval and Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Competing 
Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


8. NeuroSci. 2025 Feb 1;6(1):11. doi: 10.3390/neurosci6010011.

Long-Term Insomnia Treatment with Benzodiazepines and Alzheimer's Disease: A 
Systematic Review.

Trigo FS(1), Pinto NC(1)(2)(3), Pato MV(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Beira Interior, 6200-506 Covilhã, 
Portugal.
(2)CICS-UBI-Health Sciences Research Centre, University of Beira Interior, 
6200-506 Covilhã, Portugal.
(3)Rise-Health, University of Beira Interior, 6200-506 Covilhã, Portugal.

Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia. Benzodiazepines are the 
most widely used pharmacological class in the treatment of insomnia and other 
sleep disorders. Some literature suggests that the chronic use of 
benzodiazepines is associated with the development of cognitive decline. This 
review aims to evaluate the use of benzodiazepines and its association with the 
development of Alzheimer's disease. A systematic review of the literature was 
carried out using the MEDLINE and Embase databases. Protocols followed the 
PRISMA-P 2020 methodology, and, after the analysis of the included studies, a 
narrative synthesis of the results was carried out. Only two cohort studies were 
identified that met defined eligibility criteria. In the retrospective study, a 
significant risk of developing Alzheimer's disease after treatment with 
benzodiazepines was found. In the prospective study, the prevalence of 
Alzheimer's disease was not associated with treatment with benzodiazepines. 
Results suggest that only the largest study presented a significant risk of 
developing Alzheimer's disease. Given the scarce scientific evidence found, it 
is concluded that further research on this topic is necessary.

DOI: 10.3390/neurosci6010011
PMCID: PMC11843827
PMID: 39982263

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


9. Crit Care Med. 2025 Mar 1;53(3):e690-e700. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0000000000006572. 
Epub 2025 Feb 21.

Society of Critical Care Medicine 2024 Guidelines on Adult ICU Design.

Hamilton DK(1), Gary JC(2), Scruth E(3), Anderson HL 3rd(4), Cadenhead CD(5), 
Oczkowski SJ(6), Lau VI(7), Adler J(8), Bassily-Marcus A(9), Bassin BS(10), Boyd 
J(11), Busl KM(12), Crabb JR(13), Harvey C(14), Hecht JP(15), Herweijer M(16), 
Gunnerson KJ(17), Ibrahim AS(18), Jabaley CS(19), Kaplan LJ(20), Monchar S(21), 
Moody A(22), Read JL(23), Renne BC(24), Sarosi MG(25), Swoboda SM(26), 
Thompson-Brazill KA(27), Wells CL(28), Anderson DC(29).

Author information:
(1)Texas A&M University, College Station, TX.
(2)College of Nursing, Texas A&M University Health Science Center, Bryan, TX.
(3)Northern California Safety, Quality and Regulatory Services-Kaiser Foundation 
Hospital and Health Plan, Oakland, CA.
(4)Department of Surgery, Trinity Health Livonia, Livonia, MI.
(5)Retired consultant, Houston, TX.
(6)Department of Medicine, Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and 
Impact, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(7)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, 
University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(8)Pediatric Intensive Care Unit and Pediatric Complex Care, Joe DiMaggio 
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL.
(9)Department of Surgery, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Institute for 
Critical Care Medicine, Mount Sinai Health System, New York, NY.
(10)Department of Emergency Medicine, Division of Critical Care, University of 
Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI.
(11)Pulmonary Clinical Services, The Permanente Medical Group, Sacramento, CA.
(12)Departments of Neurology & Neurosurgery, University of Florida, College of 
Medicine, Gainesville, FL.
(13)Mazzetti, Inc., Atlanta, GA.
(14)Grand River Hospital & St. Mary's General Hospital, Kitchener, ON, Canada.
(15)Department of Pharmacy, Trinity Health Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor, MI.
(16)Wiegerinck Architects, Arnhem, The Netherlands.
(17)Departments of Emergency Medicine, Anesthesiology and Internal Medicine, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI.
(18)Intensive Care Unit, Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, Kano, Nigeria.
(19)Department of Anesthesiology and the Emory Critical Care Center, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA.
(20)Division of Trauma, Surgical Critical Care and Emergency Surgery, Perelman 
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.
(21)Division of Trauma Surgical Critical Care and Injury Prevention, Department 
of Surgery, Hackensack University Medical Center, Hackensack, NJ.
(22)Pulmonary/Critical Care, The Permanente Medical Group, Fremont, CA.
(23)National Patient Care Services, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Oakland, CA.
(24)Division of Trauma, Emergency Surgery, Surgical Critical Care, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA.
(25)Interventional Radiology/Department of Radiology, Trinity Health Ann Arbor, 
Ann Arbor, MI.
(26)Johns Hopkins University Schools of Medicine and Nursing, Baltimore, MD.
(27)Georgetown University School of Nursing, Washington, DC.
(28)Department of Rehabilitation Services, University of Maryland Medical 
Center, Baltimore, MD.
(29)Department of Neurology, Boston University, Boston, MA.

RATIONALE: Advances in technology, infection control challenges-as with the 
COVID-19 pandemic-and evolutions in patient- and family-centered care highlight 
ideal aspects of ICU design and opportunities for enhancement.
OBJECTIVES: To provide evidence-based recommendations for clinicians, 
administrators, and healthcare architects to optimize design strategies in new 
or renovation projects.
PANEL DESIGN: A guidelines panel of 27 members with experience in ICU design met 
virtually from the panel's inception in 2019 to 2024. The panel represented 
clinical professionals, architects, engineers, and clinician methodologists with 
expertise in developing evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. A formal 
conflict of interest policy was followed throughout the guidelines-development 
process.
METHODS: Embase, Medline, CINAHL, Central, and Proquest were searched from 
database inception to September 2023. The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, 
Development, and Evaluation approach was used to determine certainty in the 
evidence and to formulate recommendations, suggestions, and practice statements 
for each Population, Intervention, Control, and Outcomes (PICO) question based 
on quality of evidence and panel consensus. Recommendations were provided when 
evidence was actionable; suggestions, when evidence was equivocal; and practice 
statements when the benefits of the intervention appeared to outweigh the risks, 
but direct evidence to support the intervention did not exist.
RESULTS: The ICU Guidelines panel issued 17 recommendations based on 15 PICO 
questions relating to ICU architecture and design. The panel strongly recommends 
high-visibility ICU layouts, windows and natural lighting in all patient rooms 
to enhance sleep and recovery. The panel suggests integrated staff break/respite 
spaces, advanced infection prevention features, and flexible surge capacity. 
Because of insufficient evidence, the panel could not make a recommendation 
around in-room supplies, decentralized charting, and advanced heating, 
ventilation, and air conditioning systems.
CONCLUSIONS: This ICU design guidelines is intended to provide expert guidance 
for clinicians, administrators, and healthcare architects considering erecting a 
new ICU or revising an existing structure.

Copyright © 2025 by the Society of Critical Care Medicine and Wolters Kluwer 
Health, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0000000000006572
PMID: 39982130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Society of Critical Care Medicine (SCCM) 
required all guideline task force members to attest to a declaration of interest 
statement including all current and past financial conflicts of interest (COI) 
within 2 years before joining the guideline development process. No task force 
members reported any financial COI related to the development and writing of the 
guideline. All members were allowed to participate in all discussions and had 
equal weight in formulating the statements and voting. We allowed members to 
exclude themselves from discussion and voting around specific questions if they 
felt important academic COI. There was no input or funding from industry to 
produce this guideline. The COI forms are available from the SCCM and are 
updated on a regular basis. Dr. Anderson reports grant funding from the 
Alzheimer’s Association (AACSF-22-923724) related to the design of community 
spaces for older adults and innovation funding from Mass General Brigham related 
to ICU design and delirium; she received funding from Ovid BP. Dr. Oczkowski 
received funding from Fisher & Paykel. Dr. Bassin received funding from 
CannonDesign. Dr. Busl received funding from the National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
(U01NS124613 [AWD14238], NIH R01NS120924 [AWD10089]) related to management of 
headache for patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage in the ICU and the 
American Academy of Neurology; she disclosed that she is Associate Editor for 
Critical Care Medicine. Dr. Kaplan disclosed he is Chair, Scientific Review 
panel for the Congressionally Directed Medical Review Panel; a participant in a 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention funded exploration of hospital room 
features to improve infection control; and he is a past-President of the SCCM, 
an Associate Editor for Critical Care Explorations, and an editorial board 
member of Critical Care Medicine. Dr. Gunnerson serves on the Council of the 
SCCM. Dr. Jabaley is an editorial board member of Critical Care Medicine and 
Critical Care Explorations. Dr. Swoboda serves on Board of American College of 
Critical Care Medicine. The remaining authors have disclosed that they do not 
have any potential conflicts of interest. A guidelines panel of 27 members with 
experience in ICU design met virtually from the panel’s inception in 2019 to 
2024. The panel represented clinical professionals, architects, engineers, and 
clinician methodologists with expertise in developing evidence-based clinical 
practice guidelines. A formal conflict of interest policy was followed 
throughout the guidelines-development process.


10. Gerontologist. 2025 May 10;65(6):gnaf081. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnaf081.

"Diagnose & Adios": Multi-Perspective Insights on Formal Service Use in Dementia 
Family Caregivers.

Falzarano F(1)(2), Greenfield A(1)(2), Osso F(2)(3), Bumbalova K(4), Bloom 
RF(3).

Author information:
(1)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.
(2)Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New 
York, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Fordham University, Bronx, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Dementia family caregiving is a complex role that 
becomes increasingly intense and demanding over time. The utilization of home 
and community-based services (HCBS) can provide knowledge and skills to foster 
preparedness, which may protect against adverse caregiving outcomes; yet actual 
uptake of services remains low. The current study aims to gather 
multi-perspective insights underlying the disconnect between caregivers' need 
for-versus utilization of-HCBS using Pearlin et al.'s (1990) stress process 
model as a guiding theoretical framework.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Five focus groups of 4-8 participants each were 
conducted with dementia family caregivers (n = 13) and subject matter experts 
(n = 17). A deductive-inductive thematic approach was used for data analysis.
RESULTS: Three overarching concepts were identified: "Pathways to 
Preparedness'", 'Multi-Level Barriers', and 'Bridging the Gap.' Findings 
reflected caregivers" need for support in 4 core areas: (a) dementia-specific 
education/training; (b) competent mental health support; (c) financial/legal 
navigation, and (4) emergency readiness. Results revealed cross-dimensional 
barriers across individual-, provider-, and systemic-contexts impeding HCBS 
access and utilization. Personalized caregiving navigation and technology were 
deemed potential solutions to facilitate clearer clinical pathways between unmet 
needs and relevant services.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Results underscore the complexity of the HCBS 
system in the United States and highlight the multidimensional barriers 
disrupting the pipeline connecting caregivers to HCBS. Findings can inform 
web-based behavioral interventions aiming to enhance family caregivers' 
knowledge of, access to, and utilization of formal services in community 
settings.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnaf081
PMCID: PMC12070988
PMID: 39981669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


11. Cureus. 2025 Jan 21;17(1):e77781. doi: 10.7759/cureus.77781. eCollection 2025
 Jan.

The Role of PET Detection of Biomarkers in Early Diagnosis, Progression, and 
Prognosis of Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review.

Zarovniaeva V(1), Anwar S(2), Kazmi S(1), Cortez Perez K(1), Sandhu S(1), 
Mohammed L(1).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences & 
Psychology, Fairfield, USA.
(2)Biosciences, COMSATS University Islamabad, Islamabad, PAK.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurologic disease characterized by the 
deposition of Aβ amyloid and tau protein in the neural tissue, which leads to 
gradual and irreversible deterioration of memory. Positron emission tomography 
(PET) showed high potential in diagnosing AD. It provided a unique opportunity 
to assess cerebral amyloid plaques and tau neurofibrillary tangle deposits in 
the brain tissue without invasive procedures in vivo. Many studies have been 
focused on PET diagnosis of AD in recent years, which has significantly improved 
diagnosis and treatment strategies. This review study aims to summarize the role 
and emphasize the benefits of PET detection of AD biomarkers in early stages, 
clinical and histological progression assessment, and predicting AD outcomes. 
Relevant articles published in the last five years, from September 1, 2019, to 
October 30, 2024, were searched through authentic databases such as PubMed, 
PubMed Central, Europe PubMed Central, Science Direct, Cochrane Library, and 
Google Scholar. In this systematic review, we included articles published in 
English, with available full text, based on human trials, with relevant 
information regarding participants who underwent PET of the brain to diagnose AD 
biomarkers. The study strictly followed the Preferred Reporting Items for 
Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 2020 guidelines and 
recommendations. The Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) critical appraisal methods 
were used to evaluate all selected cross-sectional research, and the 
Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) was used to assess the cohort and longitudinal 
studies. Eleven relevant articles were included in this systematic review, and 
2,203 males and females participated. The study revealed that the detection of 
beta-amyloid PET showed high-precious results in early diagnosis of AD. The 
detection of tau protein showed a high potential for estimation of the clinical 
and histological progression and prognosis of AD in longitudinal studies. 
Identifying amyloid and tau protein accumulation and glucose metabolism 
alterations is highly predictive of neurodegeneration in preclinical and mild 
cognitive impairment stages.

Copyright © 2025, Zarovniaeva et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.77781
PMCID: PMC11841692
PMID: 39981456

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


12. Front Neurosci. 2025 Feb 4;19:1508662. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1508662. 
eCollection 2025.

A bibliometric analysis of research on dementia comorbid with depression from 
2005 to 2024.

Li X(1), Su W(1), Cai L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Huzhou Third Municipal Hospital, the Affiliated 
Hospital of Huzhou University, Huzhou, China.

INTRODUCTION: With the global rise in life expectancy, the incidence of dementia 
is increasing, often accompanied by depressive symptoms. Understanding the 
interplay between dementia and depression is crucial, as depression may not only 
co-occur with but also potentially exacerbate the progression of dementia. This 
study employs bibliometric analysis to map the global research landscape, 
identify prevailing themes, and discern future research directions.
METHODS: We analyzed reviews and original research articles on dementia and 
depression extracted from the Web of Science Core Collection spanning from 2005 
to 2024. Utilizing tools such as CiteSpace, VOSviewer, and an R-based 
bibliometric analysis package, we assessed trends in publication volume, 
citation frequency, contributing countries, leading institutions, predominant 
journals, influential authors, and emergent keywords.
RESULTS: A total of 1972 publications were obtained, revealing a consistent 
increase in both the number of publications and their citation impact over the 
study period. The United States is the country with the most publications and 
the most extensive collaborations. The University of Toronto and the Journal of 
Alzheimer's Disease were identified as key contributors to this field. This 
research area is currently focused on cognitive impairments, the role of gut 
microbiota, and non-drug interventions. Future directions emphasize the 
importance of early detection and intervention, a deeper understanding of the 
gut-brain axis, and the integration of technology in treatment strategies. 
Additionally, there is a growing interest in the physiological and psychological 
interplays such as oxidative stress and its implications.
CONCLUSION: This study underscores pathogenesis, comorbid conditions, and 
non-drug interventions as primary research focal points, suggesting these areas 
as potential pathways for therapeutic innovation. These insights are intended to 
deepen our understanding, enhance diagnostics, and improve the management of 
dementia and depression, providing guidance for future research aimed at 
addressing these escalating global health challenges.

Copyright © 2025 Li, Su and Cai.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1508662
PMCID: PMC11841476
PMID: 39981405

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


13. Heliyon. 2025 Jan 28;11(3):e42349. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2025.e42349. 
eCollection 2025 Feb 15.

Identification of blood plasma protein ratios for distinguishing Alzheimer's 
disease from healthy controls using machine learning.

Safi A(1), Giunti E(2)(3), Melikechi O(4), Xia W(1)(2)(3), Melikechi N(1).

Author information:
(1)Kennedy College of Sciences, University of Massachusetts Lowell, Lowell, MA, 
01854, USA.
(2)Bedford VA Healthcare System, Bedford, MA, 01730, USA.
(3)Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
02118, USA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, 02115, USA.

Early detection of Alzheimer's disease is essential for effective treatment and 
the development of therapies that modify disease progression. Developing 
sensitive and specific noninvasive diagnostic tools is crucial for improving 
clinical outcomes and advancing our understanding of this condition. Liquid 
biopsy techniques, especially those involving plasma biomarkers, provide a 
promising noninvasive method for early diagnosis and disease monitoring. In this 
study, we analyzed the plasma proteomic profiles of 38 healthy individuals, with 
an average age of 66.5 years, and 22 patients with Alzheimer's disease, with an 
average age of 79.7 years. Proteins in the plasma were quantified using 
specialized panels designed for proteomic extension assays. Through 
computational analysis using a linear support vector machine algorithm, we 
identified 82 differentially expressed proteins between the two groups. From 
these, we calculated 6642 possible protein ratios and identified specific 
combinations of these ratios as significant features for distinguishing between 
individuals with Alzheimer's disease and healthy individuals. Notably, the 
protein ratios kynureninase to macrophage scavenger receptor type 1, Neurocan to 
protogenin, and interleukin-5 receptor alpha to glial cell line-derived 
neurotrophic factor receptor alpha 1 achieving accuracy up to 98 % in 
differentiating between the two groups. This study underscores the potential of 
leveraging protein relationships, expressed as ratios, in advancing Alzheimer's 
disease diagnostics. Furthermore, our findings highlight the promise of liquid 
biopsy techniques as a noninvasive and accurate approach for early detection and 
monitoring of Alzheimer's disease using blood plasma.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2025.e42349
PMCID: PMC11840181
PMID: 39981365

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


14. Heliyon. 2025 Feb 1;11(3):e42412. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2025.e42412. 
eCollection 2025 Feb 15.

Investigating the neuroprotective effects of Dracocephalum moldavica extract and 
its effect on metabolomic profile of rat model of sporadic Alzheimer's disease.

Talebi M(1), Ayatollahi SA(2)(3), As'Habi MA(4), Kobarfard F(2)(5), Khoramjouy 
M(2), Boroujeni FN(6), Faizi M(7), Ghassempour A(4).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, 
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Phytochemistry Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Medicinal Plants and Drugs Research Institute, Shahid Beheshti University, 
G.C., Evin, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Pathology, Sina Hospital, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Pharmacy, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive condition marked by multiple 
underlying mechanisms. Therefore, the investigation of natural products that can 
target multiple pathways presents a potential gate for the understanding and 
management of AD. This study aimed to assess the neuroprotective effects of the 
hydroalcoholic extract of Dracocephalum moldavica (DM) on cognitive impairment, 
biomarker changes, and putative metabolic pathways in a rat model of AD induced 
by intracerebroventricular streptozotocin (ICV-STZ). The DM extract was 
standardized and quantified based on examining total phenolic, total flavonoid, 
rosmarinic acid, and quercetin contents using colorimetry and high-performance 
liquid chromatography (HPLC) methods. The antioxidant potential of the extract 
was evaluated by 2,2-Diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl and nitric oxide radical 
scavenging assays. Male Wistar rats were injected with STZ (3 mg/kg, single 
dose, bilateral ICV) to induce a sporadic AD (sAD) model. Following model 
induction, rats were orally administered with DM extract (100, 200, and 
400 mg/kg/day) or donepezil (5 mg/kg/day) for 21 days. Cognitive function was 
assessed using the radial arm water maze behavioral test. The histopathological 
evaluations were conducted in the cortex and hippocampus regions. 
Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry 
(MALDI-TOF MS) was used to assess metabolite changes in various brain regions. 
DM extract significantly attenuated cognitive dysfunction induced by ICV-STZ 
according to behavioral and histopathological investigations. Thirty-two 
discriminating metabolites related to the amino acid metabolism; the 
glutamate/gamma-aminobutyric acid/glutamine cycle; nucleotide metabolism; lipid 
metabolism (glycerophospholipids, sphingomyelins, ceramides, 
phosphatidylserines, and prostaglandins), and glucose metabolic pathways were 
identified in the brains of rats with sAD simultaneously for the first time in 
this model. Polyphenols in DM extract may contribute to the regulation of these 
pathways. After treatment with DM extract, 10 metabolites from the 32 identified 
ones were altered in the brain tissue of a rat model of sAD, most commonly at 
doses of 200 and 400 mg/kg. In conclusion, this study demonstrates the 
neuroprotective potential of DM by upregulation/downregulation of various 
pathophysiological biomarkers such as adenine, glycerophosphoglycerol, inosine, 
prostaglandins, and sphingomyelin induced by ICV-STZ in sAD. These findings are 
consistent with cognitive behavioral results and histopathological outcomes.

© 2025 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2025.e42412
PMCID: PMC11840490
PMID: 39981356

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


15. Curr Protein Pept Sci. 2025;26(7):515-545. doi: 
10.2174/0113892037362037250205143911.

Amyloid-β Clearance with Monoclonal Antibodies: Transforming Alzheimer's 
Treatment.

Fatima R(1), Khan Y(2), Maqbool M(3), Ramalingam PS(4), Khan MG(5), Bisht AS(6), 
Hussain MS(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Petroleum & Energy Studies, Energy 
Acres, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, 248007, India.
(2)Institute of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering (Health Division), The 
University of Agriculture, Peshawar, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Kashmir, Srinagar, Jammu 
and Kashmir, 190006, India.
(4)Protein Engineering Laboratory, School of Biosciences and Technology, Vellore 
Institute of Technology, Vellore, India.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Daksh Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, 
Chhatarpur, MP, 471001, India.
(6)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shri Guru Ram Rai University, Patel Nagar, 
Dehradun, Uttarakhand, 248001, India.
(7)Uttaranchal Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Uttaranchal University, 
Dehradun, Uttarakhand, 248007, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive condition that causes the degeneration 
of nerve cells, leading to a decline in cognitive abilities and memory 
impairment, significantly affecting millions around the globe. The primary 
pathological feature of AD is the buildup of amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques in the 
brain, which has become a major target for therapeutic strategies. This thorough 
review examines the progress made in next-generation therapies that concentrate 
on monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) aimed at Aβ. We explore how these antibodies 
function, their effectiveness in clinical settings, and their safety profiles, 
specifically discussing notable mAbs, such as aducanumab, donanemab, lecanemab, 
etc. This review also addresses the difficulties related to Aβ- targeted 
treatments. Furthermore, it examines the advancing field of biomarker 
development and tailored medicine strategies designed to improve the accuracy of 
AD treatment. By integrating the latest findings from clinical trials and new 
research, this review offers an in-depth evaluation of the possibilities and 
challenges associated with mAbs in modifying the progression of AD. Future 
considerations regarding combination therapies and novel drug delivery methods 
are also examined, emphasizing the necessity for ongoing research to achieve 
significant advancements in managing AD. Through this review, we seek to provide 
clinicians, researchers, and policymakers with insights into the current 
landscape and future directions of Aβ-targeted therapies, promoting a deeper 
understanding of their role in addressing AD.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113892037362037250205143911
PMID: 39980294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Eur Geriatr Med. 2025 Apr;16(2):527-539. doi: 10.1007/s41999-025-01165-4.
Epub  2025 Feb 20.

Awareness of national dementia guidelines and management of oldest-old and frail 
people living with dementia: a European survey of geriatricians.

De Bondt E(#)(1), Locquet P(#)(2)(3), López MG(4), Soysal P(5), Welsh 
T(6)(7)(8), Shenkin SD(9), Tournoy J(10)(11); EuGMS Dementia Special Interest 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, University Hospitals Leuven, Louvain, 
Belgium.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven, 
Louvain, Belgium.
(3)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, KU Leuven, Louvain, Belgium.
(4)Department of Geriatrics Medicine, Getafe University Hospital, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Bezmialem Vakif 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(6)Research Institute for Brain Health, ReMindUK, Bath, UK.
(7)Older Person's Unit, Royal United Hospital Bath, Bath, UK.
(8)University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(9)Ageing and Health, Usher Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(10)Division of Geriatric Medicine, University Hospitals Leuven, Louvain, 
Belgium. jos.tournoy@uzleuven.be.
(11)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, KU Leuven, Louvain, Belgium. 
jos.tournoy@uzleuven.be.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Management of dementia, particularly the use of pharmacological 
treatments, in the oldest old and those with frailty is complex because of the 
multiple types of dementia, comorbidities, polypharmacy, and side effects. 
Current national dementia guidelines lack recommendations for this group. This 
study assessed guideline awareness, usage, and pharmacological management 
practices for dementia in the oldest old and frail across Europe.
METHODS: An online anonymous survey was distributed in 2023 to the European 
Geriatric Medicine Society Dementia Special Interest Group and their contacts to 
investigate guideline awareness and pharmacological practices for the oldest old 
and frail. The CHERRIES checklist was followed for reporting. Responses were 
summarized using descriptive statistics and quotations of free text responses.
RESULTS: Forty-nine responses from fourteen countries were received. A total of 
76.6% were aware of a national dementia guideline and 86.9% applied it 
frequently. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) were generally used as a 
first-line treatment in mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) (91.6% and 
93.4%). Memantine was added or replaced AChEIs as dementia severity progresses. 
Gingko biloba was considered in mild and moderate AD (23.6% and 22.7%, 
respectively). Off-label drug use was common in other types of dementia. 88.5% 
of respondents reported no difference in treatment compared with a younger 
population.
CONCLUSION: There was awareness of various dementia guidelines, but none 
addressed the management of the oldest old and frail. Most respondents did not 
adapt their practices for this group, but many reported off-label treatments 
which resulted in non-evidence-based prescribing, overprescribing, and a lack of 
deprescribing. European consensus to guide the management of dementia in this 
complex population is needed.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to European Geriatric Medicine 
Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s41999-025-01165-4
PMID: 39979530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: On behalf of 
all authors, the corresponding author states that there is no conflict of 
interest. Ethical approval: The study was approved by the ethical research 
commission/KU Leuven: MP021976. Informed consent: The study was anonymous so no 
informed consent was required.


17. Pharmacol Res. 2025 Mar;213:107658. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2025.107658. Epub
2025  Feb 19.

Interleukin-2 and its receptors: Implications and therapeutic prospects in 
immune-mediated disorders of central nervous system.

Zhang Y(1), Kong Q(2), Fan J(3), Zhao H(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cerebrovascular Disease Research, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital 
Medical University, Beijing 100053, China; Beijing Geriatric Medical Research 
Center, Beijing 100053, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University, 
Beijing 100053, China.
(3)Institute of Cerebrovascular Disease Research, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital 
Medical University, Beijing 100053, China; Beijing Geriatric Medical Research 
Center, Beijing 100053, China. Electronic address: fanjunfen@xwhosp.org.
(4)Institute of Cerebrovascular Disease Research, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital 
Medical University, Beijing 100053, China; Beijing Geriatric Medical Research 
Center, Beijing 100053, China. Electronic address: zhaohaiping@xwhosp.org.

Interleukin-2 (IL-2), the first cloned cytokine, is a multifunctional molecule 
with diverse cellular origins. As a pivotal T-cell growth factor, IL-2 is 
crucial for T-cell proliferation and the generation of effector and memory 
cells. Besides, IL-2 and its receptor (IL-2R) are expressed in various cell 
types within the brain and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of several 
neurological disorders. In conditions characterized by primary or secondary 
inflammatory processes, such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, 
ischemic stroke, and encephalitis, IL-2/IL-2R expression exhibits region- and 
subtype-specific and variations associated with disease stages in plasma, 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and brain tissues. These variations highlight the 
potential of IL-2/IL-2R as promising diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers, as 
well as therapeutic targets. This review provides a comprehensive summary of the 
roles, expression patterns, and regulatory mechanisms of IL-2/IL-2R in 
immune-mediated disorders of the central nervous system (CNS), with particular 
emphasis on the impact of genetic polymorphisms in IL-2 and IL-2R subunits on 
disease susceptibility and progression. In addition, the research advances in 
IL-2/IL-2R-targeted therapies are also discussed, offering novel insights into 
the immunotherapeutic strategies for CNS diseases.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2025.107658
PMID: 39978656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper


18. Exp Neurol. 2025 May;387:115189. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115189. Epub
2025  Feb 18.

Tg-SwDI transgenic mice: A suitable model for Alzheimer's disease and cerebral 
amyloid angiopathy basic research and preclinical studies.

Rodriguez-Lopez A(1), Esteban D(1), Domínguez-Romero AN(2), Gevorkian G(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de 
México (UNAM), Apartado Postal 70228, Cuidad Universitaria, CDMX, CP 04510, 
Mexico.
(2)Facultad de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM), Apartado 
Postal 70228, Cuidad Universitaria, CDMX, CP 04510, Mexico.
(3)Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de 
México (UNAM), Apartado Postal 70228, Cuidad Universitaria, CDMX, CP 04510, 
Mexico. Electronic address: gokar@unam.mx.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease and the 
most frequent cause of dementia. Characteristic features observed in the brain 
of AD patients are the accumulation of amyloid beta peptide (Aβ) aggregates, 
neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) composed of hyperphosphorylated Tau protein, 
neuronal and synaptic loss, and elevated levels of oxidative stress and 
inflammatory markers. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is another common cause 
of cognitive decline characterized by the accumulation of Aβ in the cerebral 
vasculature. The precise overlapping pathogenic mechanisms underlying the 
co-occurrence of AD and CAA are not very well understood. However, vascular 
dysfunction observed at early stages is considered a key phenomenon. Tg-SwDI 
transgenic mice expressing human Aβ precursor protein (AβPP) harboring the 
Swedish K670N/M671L and vasculotropic Dutch/Iowa E693Q/D694N mutations in the 
brain have been extensively used to study many pathological features observed in 
AD/CAA patients and to design biomarkers and therapeutic strategies. The present 
review summarizes studies addressing different features mimicking human disease 
in Tg-SwDI mice: parenchymal and cerebral vascular amyloid accumulation, 
neuroinflammation, complement overactivation, cerebrovascular, mitochondrial and 
GABAergic system dysfunction, altered NO synthesis, circadian rhythm 
disruptions, lead exposure effect, among others. Also, reports that evaluated 
anti-Aβ and anti-inflammatory strategies and compounds capable of delaying or 
reversing vascular dysfunction and the impairment of GABAergic transmission in 
Tg-SwDI mice are analyzed. This review may help researchers determine this 
model's appropriateness for future studies of a particular mechanism or a novel 
treatment protocol.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115189
PMID: 39978567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


19. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 May;306(Pt 1):141273. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.141273. Epub 2025 Feb 18.

Discovery of effective GSK-3β inhibitors as therapeutic potential against 
Alzheimer's disease: A computational drug design insight.

Asl FSS(1), Malverdi N(2), Mojahedian F(3), Baziyar P(4), Nabi-Afjadi M(5).

Author information:
(1)Medical School, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology and Microbiology, Faculty of 
Biological Science and Technology, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of 
Tarbiat Modares, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, Faculty of Basic Sciences, 
University of Mazandaran, Babolsar, Iran. Electronic address: 
payambaziyar@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of 
Tarbiat Modares, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
mohsen.nabiafjadi@modares.ac.ir.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is mostly thought to be caused by overactivity of 
glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta (GSK3-β). Therefore, a GSK-3β inhibitor may be a 
suggested medicine for Alzheimer's therapy. Nowadays, computational techniques 
are thought to be among the quickest and most affordable options for therapeutic 
design and drug discovery. Following a preliminary screening of flavonoids for 
possible protection against cognitive illnesses such as Alzheimer's, 
Amentoflavone, Curcumin, and Notopterol were shown to be promising candidates. 
Using molecular docking, the ligand orientation and binding energy in the 
ATP-binding pocket of GSK-3β were ascertained. Amentoflavone formed a hydrogen 
bond with the GSK-3β protein's ATP binding site during the molecular docking 
phase, obtaining the highest negative binding energy. However, when the results 
moved closer to a molecular dynamics simulation, the findings changed, and 
Curcumin was shown to be the most potent inhibitor. All structures remained 
stable during the MD simulation of the GSK-3β protein and its ligands. Moreover, 
compared to other natural compounds, Curcumin showed higher binding free energy. 
Therefore, Curcumin may be useful as a polyphenolic flavonoid in the prevention 
and treatment of AD. Hence, additional research in vitro and in vivo can focus 
on these flavonoid compounds as an alternative treatment.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.141273
PMID: 39978523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


20. Neurobiol Dis. 2025 Apr;207:106851. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106851. Epub 2025
 Feb 18.

Glycosphingolipids in neurodegeneration - Molecular mechanisms, cellular roles, 
and therapeutic perspectives.

Hülsmeier AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Chemistry, University Hospital Zurich, University of 
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address: andreas.huelsmeier@uzh.ch.

Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's (AD), Parkinson's (PD), 
Huntington's (HD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), are characterized by 
progressive neuronal loss and pose significant global health challenges. 
Glycosphingolipids (GSLs), critical components of neuronal membranes, regulate 
signal transduction, membrane organization, neuroinflammation, and lipid raft 
functionality. This review explores GSL roles in neural development, 
differentiation, and neurogenesis, along with their dysregulation in 
neurodegenerative diseases. Aberrations in GSL metabolism drive key pathological 
features such as protein aggregation, neuroinflammation, and impaired signaling. 
Specific GSLs, such as GM1, GD3, and GM3, influence amyloid-beta aggregation in 
AD, α-synuclein stability in PD, and mutant huntingtin toxicity in HD. 
Therapeutic strategies targeting GSL metabolism, such as GM1 supplementation and 
enzyme modulation, have demonstrated potential to mitigate disease progression. 
Further studies using advanced lipidomics and glycomics may support biomarker 
identification and therapeutic advancements. This work aims to highlight the 
translational potential of GSL research for diagnosing and managing devastating 
neurodegenerative conditions.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106851
PMID: 39978484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The author 
declares that no funds, grants, or other support were received during the 
preparation of this manuscript. The author has no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


21. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Mar 26;344:119459. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119459.
Epub  2025 Feb 19.

Ditan Decoction ameliorates vascular dementia-induced cognitive dysfunction 
through anti-ferroptosis via the HIF1α pathway: Integrating network pharmacology 
and experimental validation.

Gu M(1), Sun L(1), Yang J(2), Wang K(1), Wu F(1), Zheng L(1), Shen X(1), Lai 
X(3), Gong L(3), Peng Y(3), Xu S(3), Yang J(4), Yang C(5).

Author information:
(1)Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, Wuhan, 430065, China; Department of 
Gerontology, Hubei Provincial Hospital of Integrated Chinese and Western 
Medicine, Wuhan, 430022, China.
(2)Hubei Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Affiliated 
Hospital of Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, Wuhan, 430061, China; Hubei 
Shizhen Laboratory, Wuhan, 430065, China.
(3)Department of Gerontology, Hubei Provincial Hospital of Integrated Chinese 
and Western Medicine, Wuhan, 430022, China.
(4)Department of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Union 
Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 
Wuhan, 430022, China. Electronic address: 360236862@qq.com.
(5)Department of Gerontology, Hubei Provincial Hospital of Integrated Chinese 
and Western Medicine, Wuhan, 430022, China. Electronic address: 
yc250820883@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Vascular dementia (VaD) represents a frequently 
seen cognitive dysfunction syndrome and has ranks second among dementia subtypes 
following Alzheimer's disease. At present, Ditan Decoction (DTD), the 
traditional Chinese herbal prescription, is clinically applied in treating VaD. 
However, the material basis of its efficacy and therapeutic mechanism still 
remain unknown.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This experiment investigated the protection induced by DTD 
against VaD and the associated mechanism through network pharmacology, mass 
spectrometry analysis, and in vivo validation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We induced VaD in a rat model using bilateral common 
carotid artery ligation method (2-VO) and administered DTD at doses of 2.14, 
4.28 and 8.55 g/kg, with Memantine (0.9 mg/kg) being the positive control. 
Following oral administration with DTD or Memantine for 4 weeks, behavioral 
tests were used for assessing cognitive function. H&E and Nissl staining was 
used for evaluating hippocampal pathology. TEM was used to visualize the 
ultrastructure of the hippocampal tissue. ELISA was carried out for measuring 
inflammatory factor levels in rat serum, and biochemical assays were employed to 
assess oxidative stress levels. Ferroptosis in the hippocampus was examined 
through analyzing corresponding biomarkers and protein expression. Additionally, 
HPLC-Q-Exactive-MS technology was employed for identifying DTD components, 
whereas network pharmacology was conducted for predicting DTD's targets for 
treating VaD. HIF1α expression levels were assessed by Western blotting and 
immunofluorescence. We also further validated whether the protective effects of 
DTD on VaD were mediated through the HIF1α-regulated ferroptosis signaling 
pathway by using an HIF1α inhibitor in rats.
RESULTS: DTD demonstrated protective effects against 2VO-induced hippocampal 
injury through alleviating oxidative stress, lowering systemic inflammation, 
while preventing ferroptosis of hippocampal tissue. As revealed by network 
pharmacology, DTD probably executes its function in VaD by activating HIF1α 
pathway. According to immunofluorescence and Western blotting, DTD activated 
HIF1α within hippocampal tissue. Furthermore, DTD's protection against VaD and 
ferroptosis was reversed when an HIF1α inhibitor was applied.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggested that DTD rescued cognitive dysfunction in 
VaD by inhibiting ferroptosis via activating HIF1α pathway.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119459
PMID: 39978449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


22. Neuron. 2025 Feb 19;113(4):501-503. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2025.01.010.

Stressed microglia turn to the dark side in Alzheimer's disease.

Di Paolo G(1), Lewcock JW(2).

Author information:
(1)Denali Therapeutics, 161 Oyster Point Boulevard, South San Francisco, CA 
94080, USA. Electronic address: dipaolo@dnli.com.
(2)Denali Therapeutics, 161 Oyster Point Boulevard, South San Francisco, CA 
94080, USA. Electronic address: lewcock@dnli.com.

A microglia subpopulation termed "dark microglia" has been associated with aging 
and neurodegeneration, although its role has remained elusive. New research from 
Flury et al. in this issue of Neuron shows that dark microglia drive 
neurodegeneration via secretion of toxic lipids.1.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2025.01.010
PMID: 39978312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests G.D.P. and J.W.L. are 
employees and shareholders of Denali Therapeutics.


23. J Trace Elem Med Biol. 2025 Apr;88:127618. doi: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2025.127618. 
Epub 2025 Feb 11.

A review study on the effect of zinc on oxidative stress-related neurological 
disorders.

Vali R(1), Shirvanian K(2), Farkhondeh T(3), Aschner M(4), Samini F(5), 
Samarghandian S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Modern Sciences, Tehran Medical Branch, 
Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
reyhaneh.vali@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Tehran, Iran. 
Electronic address: Kasra.shirvanian@gmail.com.
(3)Geriatric Health Research Center, Birjand University of Medical Sciences, 
Birjand, Iran.
(4)Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 
Bronx, NY 10461, USA.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 
Iran.
(6)Healthy Ageing Research Centre, Neyshabur University of Medical Sciences, 
Neyshabur, Iran. Electronic address: samarghandians1@nums.ac.ir.

Zinc plays a main role in maintaining homeostasis and neuronal function. 
Disorders in zinc homeostasis are connected to several neurological disorders 
due to inflammation and oxidative stress. This review explores the effect of 
zinc on neurological disorders through the Nrf2 signaling pathway. The Nrf2 
pathway modulates oxidative stress and regulates antioxidant defenses, which is 
critical in the pathogenesis of neurological diseases. We provide an overview of 
in vivo and in vitro studies illustrating zinc's neuroprotective effects in 
conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, spinal cord injury, and stroke. The dual 
role of zinc, where both excess and deficiency can be detrimental, is 
highlighted, emphasizing the need for optimal zinc levels. Limitations of 
current research and future perspectives are also discussed.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2025.127618
PMID: 39978164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


24. Clin Neurophysiol. 2025 Apr;172:33-50. doi: 10.1016/j.clinph.2025.02.256.
Epub  2025 Feb 13.

Alpha rhythm and Alzheimer's disease: Has Hans Berger's dream come true?

Babiloni C(1), Arakaki X(2), Baez S(3), Barry RJ(4), Benussi A(5), Blinowska 
K(6), Bonanni L(7), Borroni B(8), Bayard JB(9), Bruno G(10), Cacciotti A(11), 
Carducci F(12), Carino J(13), Carpi M(12), Conte A(14), Cruzat J(15), D'Antonio 
F(10), Della Penna S(16), Del Percio C(12), De Sanctis P(17), Escudero J(18), 
Fabbrini G(14), Farina FR(19), Fraga FJ(20), Fuhr P(21), Gschwandtner U(21), 
Güntekin B(22), Guo Y(23), Hajos M(24), Hallett M(25), Hampel H(26), Hanoğlu 
L(27), Haraldsen I(28), Hassan M(29), Hatlestad-Hall C(28), Horváth AA(30), 
Ibanez A(31), Infarinato F(32), Jaramillo-Jimenez A(33), Jeong J(34), Jiang 
Y(35), Kamiński M(36), Koch G(37), Kumar S(38), Leodori G(14), Li G(39), Lizio 
R(40), Lopez S(12), Ferri R(41), Maestú F(42), Marra C(43), Marzetti L(44), 
McGeown W(45), Miraglia F(11), Moguilner S(46), Moretti DV(47), Mushtaq F(48), 
Noce G(49), Nucci L(50), Ochoa J(51), Onorati P(12), Padovani A(52), 
Pappalettera C(11), Parra MA(45), Pardini M(53), Pascual-Marqui R(54), Paulus 
W(55), Pizzella V(16), Prado P(56), Rauchs G(57), Ritter P(58), Salvatore M(49), 
Santamaria-García H(59), Schirner M(58), Soricelli A(60), Taylor JP(61), Tankisi 
H(62), Tecchio F(63), Teipel S(64), Kodamullil AT(65), Triggiani AI(66), 
Valdes-Sosa M(67), Valdes-Sosa P(68), Vecchio F(69), Vossel K(70), Yao D(71), 
Yener G(72), Ziemann U(73), Kamondi A(74).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology "Vittorio Erspamer," Sapienza 
University of Rome, Rome, Italy; San Raffaele of Cassino, Cassino, (FR), Italy. 
Electronic address: claudio.babiloni@uniroma1.it.
(2)Cognition and Brain Integration Laboratory, Neurosciences, Huntington Medical 
Research Institutes, Pasadena, CA, USA.
(3)Universidad de los Andes, Bogota, Colombia; Global Brain Health Institute 
(GBHI), University of California, San Francisco, USA; Trinity College Dublin, 
Dublin, Ireland.
(4)Brain & Behaviour Research Institute and School of Psychology, University of 
Wollongong, Wollongong 2522, Australia.
(5)Neurology Unit, Department of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, 
University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy.
(6)Department of Biomedical Physics, Faculty of Physics, University of Warsaw, 
Poland; Nalecz Institute of Biocybernetics and Biomedical Engineering, Warsaw, 
Poland.
(7)Department of Medicine, Aging Sciences University G. d'Annunzio of 
Chieti-Pescara Chieti 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(8)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; Molecular Markers Laboratory, IRCCS Istituto Centro 
San Giovanni di Dio Fatebenefratelli, Brescia 25125, Italy.
(9)Facultad de Psicología, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(10)Department of Human Neuroscience, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(11)Brain Connectivity Laboratory, Department of Neuroscience and 
Neurorehabilitation, IRCCS San Raffaele Roma, Rome, Italy; Department of 
Theoretical and Applied Sciences, eCampus University, Novedrate, Como, Italy.
(12)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology "Vittorio Erspamer," Sapienza 
University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(13)Clinical Neurophysiology, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(14)Department of Human Neuroscience, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy; 
IRCCS Neuromed, Pozzilli, Italy.
(15)Latin American Brain Health Institute (BrainLat), Universidad Adolfo Ibañez, 
Santiago, Chile.
(16)Department of Neuroscience, Imaging and Clinical Sciences, "G. d'Annunzio" 
University of Chieti and Pescara, Chieti, Italy; Institute for Advanced 
Biomedical Technologies (ITAB), "G. d'Annunzio" University of Chieti and 
Pescara, Chieti, Italy.
(17)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Department of Neurology, Bronx, NY 
10461, USA.
(18)Institute for Imaging, Data and Communications, School of Engineering, 
University of Edinburgh, UK.
(19)The University of Chicago Division of the Biological Sciences 5841 S 
Maryland Avenue Chicago, IL 60637, USA; Global Brain Health Institute (GBHI), 
Trinity College Dublin, Ireland.
(20)Engineering, Modeling and Applied Social Sciences Center, Federal University 
of ABC, Santo André, Brazil.
(21)Department of Neurology, Hospitals of the University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(22)Department of Biophysics, School of Medicine, Istanbul Medipol University, 
Istanbul, Turkey; Research Institute for Health Sciences and Technologies 
(SABITA), Istanbul Medipol University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(23)Department of Neurology, Shenzhen People's Hospital and The First Affiliated 
Hospital, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China; 
Shenzhen Bay Laboratory, Shenzhen, China; Tianjin Huanhu Hospital, Tianjin, 
China.
(24)Cognito Therapeutics, Cambridge, MA, USA; Department of Comparative 
Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(25)Human Motor Control Section, Medical Neurology Branch, National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Building 10, 
Room 7D37, 10 Center Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892-1428, USA.
(26)Sorbonne University, Alzheimer Precision Medicine, AP-HP, Pitié-Salpêtrière 
Hospital, Boulevard de l'hôpital, F-75013 Paris, France.
(27)Research Institute for Health Sciences and Technologies (SABITA), Istanbul 
Medipol University, Istanbul, Turkey; Department of Neurology, School of 
Medicine, Istanbul Medipol University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(28)Department of Neurology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(29)MINDIG, F-35000 Rennes, France; School of Science and Engineering, Reykjavik 
University, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(30)Neurocognitive Research Centre, Nyírő Gyula National Institute of Psychiatry 
and Addictology, Budapest, Hungary; Department of Anatomy, Histology and 
Embryology, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary; Research Centre for 
Natural Sciences, HUN-REN, Budapest, Hungary.
(31)Latin American Brain Health Institute (BrainLat), Universidad Adolfo Ibañez, 
Santiago, Chile; Global Brain Health Institute (GBHI), Trinity College Dublin, 
Ireland; Cognitive Neuroscience Center, Universidad de San Andrés, Victoria, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(32)Rehabilitation Bioengineering Laboratory, IRCCS San Raffaele Roma, Rome, 
Italy.
(33)Centre for Age-Related Medicine (SESAM), Stavanger University Hospital, 
Stavanger, Norway; Grupo de Neurociencias de Antioquia (GNA), Universidad de 
Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(34)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of 
Science & Technology (KAIST), Daejeon 34141, South Korea.
(35)Aging Brain and Cognition Laboratory, Department of Behavioral Science, 
College of Medicine, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA; Sanders Brown 
Center on Aging, College of Medicine, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, 
USA.
(36)Department of Biomedical Physics, Faculty of Physics, University of Warsaw, 
Poland.
(37)Human Physiology Unit, Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, 
University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy; Experimental Neuropsychophysiology 
Laboratory, IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(38)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(39)Real World Evidence & Medical Value, Global Medical Affairs, Neurology, 
Eisai Inc., New Jersey, USA.
(40)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology "Vittorio Erspamer," Sapienza 
University of Rome, Rome, Italy; Oasi Research Institute - IRCCS, Troina, Italy.
(41)Oasi Research Institute - IRCCS, Troina, Italy.
(42)Center For Cognitive and Computational Neuroscience, Complutense University 
of Madrid, Spain.
(43)Department of Psychology, Catholic University of Sacred Heart, Milan, Italy; 
Memory Clinic, Foundation Policlinico Agostino Gemelli IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(44)Institute for Advanced Biomedical Technologies (ITAB), "G. d'Annunzio" 
University of Chieti and Pescara, Chieti, Italy; Department of Engineering and 
Geology, "G. d'Annunzio" University of Chieti and Pescara, Pescara, Italy.
(45)Department of Psychological Sciences & Health, University of Strathclyde, 
Graham Hills Building, 40 George Street, Glasgow, UK.
(46)Latin American Brain Health Institute (BrainLat), Universidad Adolfo Ibañez, 
Santiago, Chile; Cognitive Neuroscience Center, Universidad de San Andrés, 
Victoria, Buenos Aires, Argentina; Department of Neurology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(47)Alzheimer's Rehabilitation Operative Unit, IRCCS Istituto Centro San 
Giovanni di Dio Fatebenefratelli, 25125 Brescia, Italy.
(48)School of Psychology, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK; NIHR Leeds Biomedical 
Research Centre, Leeds, UK.
(49)IRCCS Synlab SDN, Naples, Italy.
(50)Brain Connectivity Laboratory, Department of Neuroscience and 
Neurorehabilitation, IRCCS San Raffaele Roma, Rome, Italy.
(51)Neurophysiology Laboratory GNA-GRUNECO. Universidad de Antioquia, Antioquia, 
Colombia.
(52)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; Department of Continuity of Care and Frailty, 
Neurology Unit, ASST Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy; Neurobiorepository 
and Laboratory of Advanced Biological Markers, University of Brescia, ASST 
Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy; Laboratory of Digital Neurology and 
Biosensors, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; Brain Health Center, 
University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(53)Department of Neurosciences, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics, 
Maternal and Child Health, (DINOGMI), University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy; IRCCS 
Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genova, Italy.
(54)The KEY Institute for Brain-Mind Research, University Hospital of 
Psychiatry, Zurich, Switzerland.
(55)Department of Neurology, Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich, Munich, 
Germany; University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(56)Escuela de Fonoaudiología, Facultad de Odontología y Ciencias de la 
Rehabilitación, Universidad San Sebastián, Santiago, Chile.
(57)Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, INSERM, U1237, PhIND "Physiopathology and Imaging 
of Neurological Disorders", NeuroPresage Team, GIP Cyceron, 14000 Caen, France.
(58)Berlin Institute of Health, Charité, Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany; Department of Neurology with Experimental Neurology, Charité, 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany; Bernstein Focus State Dependencies 
of Learning and Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience, Berlin, 
Germany; Einstein Center for Neuroscience Berlin, Berlin, Germany; Einstein 
Center Digital Future, Berlin, Germany.
(59)Pontificia Universidad Javeriana (PhD Program in Neuroscience), Bogotá, 
Colombia; Center of Memory and Cognition Intellectus, Hospital Universitario San 
Ignacio Bogotá, San Ignacio, Colombia.
(60)IRCCS Synlab SDN, Naples, Italy; Department of Medical, Movement and 
Wellbeing Sciences, University of Naples Parthenope, Naples, Italy.
(61)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(62)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(63)Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche (CNR), Istituto di Scienze e Tecnologie 
della Cognizione (ISTC), Roma, Italy.
(64)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Rostock, Rostock, 
Germany.
(65)Department of Bioinformatics, Fraunhofer Institute for Algorithms and 
Scientific Computing (SCAI), Sankt Augustin, Germany.
(66)Neurophysiology of Epilepsy Unit, National Institute of Neurological 
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(67)Cuban Center for Neuroscience, Havana, Cuba.
(68)Cuban Center for Neuroscience, Havana, Cuba; The Clinical Hospital of 
Chengdu Brain Science Institute, University of Electronic Science and Technology 
of China, Chengdu, China.
(69)Universidad de los Andes, Bogota, Colombia; Brain Connectivity Laboratory, 
Department of Neuroscience and Neurorehabilitation, IRCCS San Raffaele Roma, 
Rome, Italy.
(70)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine at University of 
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(71)The Clinical Hospital of Chengdu Brain Science Institute, University of 
Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, China.
(72)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Dokuz Eylül University, İzmir, 
Turkey; Izmir Biomedicine and Genome Center, Izmir, Turkey.
(73)Department of Neurology & Stroke, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany; 
Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, 
Germany.
(74)Neurocognitive Research Centre, Nyírő Gyula National Institute of Psychiatry 
and Addictology, Budapest, Hungary; Department of Neurosurgery and 
Neurointervention and Department of Neurology, Semmelweis University, Budapest, 
Hungary.

In this "centenary" paper, an expert panel revisited Hans Berger's 
groundbreaking discovery of human restingstate electroencephalographic (rsEEG) 
alpha rhythms (8-12 Hz) in 1924, his foresight of substantial clinical 
applications in patients with "senile dementia," and new developments in the 
field, focusing on Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most prevalent cause of 
dementia in pathological aging. Clinical guidelines issued in 2024 by the US 
National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association (NIA-AA) and the European 
Neuroscience Societies did not endorse routine use of rsEEG biomarkers in the 
clinical workup of older adults with cognitive impairment. Nevertheless, the 
expert panel highlighted decades of research from independent workgroups and 
different techniques showing consistent evidence that abnormalities in rsEEG 
delta, theta, and alpha rhythms (< 30 Hz) observed in AD patients correlate with 
wellestablished AD biomarkers of neuropathology, neurodegeneration, and 
cognitive decline. We posit that these abnormalities may reflect alterations in 
oscillatory synchronization within subcortical and cortical circuits, inducing 
cortical inhibitory-excitatory imbalance (in some cases leading to epileptiform 
activity) and vigilance dysfunctions (e.g., mental fatigue and drowsiness), 
which may impact AD patients' quality of life. Berger's vision of using EEG to 
understand and manage dementia in pathological aging is still actual.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinph.2025.02.256
PMID: 39978053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


25. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2025 Apr 1;143(4):304-314. doi: 
10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2024.6555.

Semaglutide and Nonarteritic Anterior Ischemic Optic Neuropathy.

Cai CX(1)(2), Hribar M(3)(4), Baxter S(5)(6), Goetz K(3), Swaminathan SS(7), 
Flowers A(8)(9), Brown EN(9), Toy B(10), Xu B(10), Chen J(11)(12), Chen A(4), 
Wang S(13), Lee C(14)(15), Leng T(16), Ehrlich JR(17)(18), Barkmeier A(11), 
Armbrust KR(19), Boland MV(20), Dorr D(21), Boyce D(22)(23), Alshammari 
T(24)(25), Swerdel J(26), Suchard MA(27)(28), Schuemie M(26)(27), Bu F(29), Sena 
AG(26)(30), Hripcsak G(31), Nishimura A(32), Nagy P(33), Falconer T(31), DuVall 
SL(28)(34), Matheny M(35), Viernes B(28), O'Brien W(28), Zhang L(36), Martin 
B(2), Westlund E(32), Mathioudakis N(37), Fan R(36), Wilcox A(38), Lai A(38), 
Stocking JC(39), Takkouche S(40), Lee LH(41), Xie Y(41), Humes I(42), McCoy 
DB(42), Adibuzzaman M(42), Areaux RG Jr(19), Rojas-Carabali W(43), Brash J(44), 
Lee DA(45), Weiskopf NG(46), Mawn L(47), Agrawal R(48), Morgan-Cooper H(49), 
Desai P(49), Ryan PB(50)(51).

Author information:
(1)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Biomedical Informatics and Data Science, Division of General Internal 
Medicine, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(3)National Eye Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(4)Casey Eye Institute, Department of Medical Informatics and Clinical 
Epidemiology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland.
(5)Viterbi Family Department of Ophthalmology and Shiley Eye Institute, 
University of California San Diego, La Jolla.
(6)Division of Biomedical Informatics, Department of Medicine, University of 
California San Diego, La Jolla.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami 
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida.
(8)Vanderbilt Eye Institute, Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(9)Vanderbilt Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(10)Roski Eye Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California.
(11)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(12)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(13)Byers Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, California.
(14)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle.
(15)Karalis Johnson Retina Center, Seattle, Washington.
(16)Byers Eye Institute at Stanford, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Palo Alto, California.
(17)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor.
(18)Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor.
(19)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Neurosciences, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
(20)Department of Ophthalmology, Mass Eye and Ear and Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts.
(21)Department of Medical Informatics & Clinical Epidemiology, Portland, Oregon.
(22)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(23)Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts.
(24)Department of Clinical Practice, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jazan University, 
Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(25)Pharmacy Practice Research Unit, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jazan University, 
Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(26)Janssen Research and Development, Titusville, New Jersey.
(27)Department of Biostatistics, UCLA School of Public Health, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles.
(28)VA Informatics and Computing Infrastructure, US Department of Veterans 
Affairs, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(29)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
(30)Department of Medical Informatics, Erasmus University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(31)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University, New York, New 
York.
(32)Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Baltimore, Maryland.
(33)Department of Biomedical Informatics and Data Science, Johns Hopkins School 
of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.
(34)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt 
Lake City.
(35)VA Informatics and Computing Infrastructure, US Department of Veterans 
Affairs, Nashville, Tennessee.
(36)Institute for Informatics, Data Science and Biostatistics, Department of 
Medicine, Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, Missouri.
(37)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(38)Department of Medicine, Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, 
Missouri.
(39)Department of Internal Medicine, University of California Davis, Sacramento.
(40)Department of Medicine, Division of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Vanderbilt 
University, Nashville, Tennessee.
(41)Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee.
(42)Oregon Clinical and Translational Research Institute, Oregon Health & 
Science University, Portland.
(43)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore.
(44)IQVIA, Real World Solutions, Brighton, United Kingdom.
(45)Ruiz Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, The University of Texas 
Health Science Center at Houston, McGovern Medical School, Houston.
(46)Department of Medical Informatics and Clinical Epidemiology, Oregon Health & 
Science University, Portland.
(47)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(48)Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Singapore.
(49)Stanford School of Medicine and Stanford Health Care, Palo Alto, California.
(50)Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York.
(51)Johnson & Johnson, Horsham, Pennsylvania.

Comment on
    JAMA Ophthalmol. 2025 Apr 1;143(4):315-316. doi: 
10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2025.0005.

IMPORTANCE: Semaglutide, a glucagonlike peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1RA), 
has recently been implicated in cases of nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic 
neuropathy (NAION), raising safety concerns in the treatment of type 2 diabetes 
(T2D).
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the potential association between semaglutide and 
NAION in the Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics (OHDSI) network.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This was a retrospective study across 14 
databases (6 administrative claims and 8 electronic health records). Included 
were adults with T2D taking semaglutide, other GLP-1RA (dulaglutide, exenatide), 
or non-GLP-1RA medications (empagliflozin, sitagliptin, glipizide) from December 
1, 2017, to December 31, 2023. The incidence proportion and rate of NAION were 
calculated. Association between semaglutide and NAION was assessed using 2 
approaches: an active-comparator cohort design comparing new users of 
semaglutide with those taking other GLP-1RAs and non-GLP-1RA drugs, and a 
self-controlled case-series (SCCS) analysis to compare individuals' risks during 
exposure and nonexposure periods for each drug. The cohort design used 
propensity score-adjusted Cox proportional hazards models to estimate hazard 
ratios (HRs). The SCCS used conditional Poisson regression models to estimate 
incidence rate ratios (IRRs). Network-wide HR and IRR estimates were generated 
using a random-effects meta-analysis model.
EXPOSURES: GLP-1RA and non-GLP-1RAs.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: NAION under 2 alternative definitions based on 
diagnosis codes: one more inclusive and sensitive, the other more restrictive 
and specific.
RESULTS: The study included 37.1 million individuals with T2D, including 810 390 
new semaglutide users. Of the 43 620 new users of semaglutide in the Optum's 
deidentified Clinformatics Data Mart Database, 24 473 (56%) were aged 50 to 69 
years, and 26 699 (61%) were female. The incidence rate of NAION was 14.5 per 
100 000 person-years among semaglutide users. The HR for NAION among new users 
of semaglutide was not different compared with that of the non-GLP-1RAs using 
the sensitive NAION definition-empagliflozin (HR, 1.44; 95% CI, 0.78-2.68; 
P = .12), sitagliptin (HR, 1.30; 95% CI, 0.56-3.01; P = .27), and glipizide (HR, 
1.23; 95% CI, 0.66-2.28; P = .25). The risk was higher only compared with 
patients taking empagliflozin (HR, 2.27; 95% CI, 1.16-4.46; P = .02) using the 
specific definition. SCCS analysis of semaglutide exposure showed an increased 
risk of NAION (meta-analysis IRR, 1.32; 95% CI, 1.14-1.54; P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Results of this study suggest a modest increase in 
the risk of NAION among individuals with T2D associated with semaglutide use, 
smaller than that previously reported, and warranting further investigation into 
the clinical implications of this association.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2024.6555
PMCID: PMC11843465
PMID: 39976940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Cai 
reported receiving grants from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals outside the submitted 
work. Dr Baxter reported receiving grants from National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) and Research to Prevent Blindess, personal fees from Topcon, and 
nonfinancial support from Optomed outside the submitted work. Dr Swaminathan 
reported receiving personal fees from AbbVie, Elios Vision, and Lumata Health 
and grants from Heidelberg Engineering outside the submitted work. Dr Toy 
reported receiving advisory board fees from Alimera Sciences, Bausch & Lomb, and 
Regeneron outside the submitted work. Dr C. Lee reported receiving grants from 
NIH, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Alzheimer’s Disease 
Drug Foundation outside the submitted work. Dr Leng reported receiving grants 
from Astellas and personal fees from Topcon, Astellas, Alcon, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Iridex, Nanoscope, Regeneron, Genentech/Roche, Virtual Field, 
Aptitude Medical, Protagonist Therapeutics, Apellis, and Graybug outside the 
submitted work. Dr Boland reported receiving personal fees from Carl Zeiss 
Meditec, Topcon Healthcare, Allergan, and Janssen during the conduct of the 
study. Dr Swerdel reported being an employee and shareholder of Johnson & 
Johnson outside the submitted work. Dr Suchard reported receiving grants from 
NIH, US Department of Veterans Affairs, and the US Food and Drug Administration 
and personal fees from Johnson & Johnson outside the submitted work. Drs 
Schuemie and Sena reported being and employee and shareholder of Johnson & 
Johnson outside the submitted work. Dr DuVall reported receiving grants from 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Astellas Pharma, AstraZeneca, Biodesix, Celgene Corp, 
Cerner Enviza, GSK, IQVIA, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Moderna, Novartis 
International AG, and Parexel International Corp outside the submitted work. Dr 
Lai reported being a shareholder of Johnson & Johnson outside the submitted 
work. Dr Brash reported being employed by IQVIA outside the submitted work. Dr 
Mawn reported receiving grants from Research to Prevent Blindness and consultant 
fees from Amgen and Genentech. Dr Ryan reported being an employee and 
shareholder of Johnson & Johnson. No other disclosures were reported.


26. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Mar 5;16(5):826-843. doi:
10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00766.  Epub 2025 Feb 20.

Enhanced Cognitive and Memory Functions via Gold Nanoparticle-Mediated Delivery 
of Afzelin through Synaptic Modulation Pathways in Alzheimer's Disease Mouse 
Models.

Mun JH(1)(2), Jang MJ(1)(3), Kim WS(1)(4), Kim SS(1), Lee B(5), Moon H(1)(6), Oh 
SJ(1)(7), Ryu CH(8), Park KS(8), Cho IH(3)(9), Hong GS(1)(7), Choi CW(10), Lee 
C(1)(11), Kim MS(1)(7)(9).

Author information:
(1)Brain Science Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), 
Seoul 02792, Republic of Korea.
(2)School of Electrical Engineering, Korea University, Seoul 02841, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Department of Convergence Medical Science, College of Korean Medicine, Kyung 
Hee University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, Korea University, Seoul 02841, Republic of 
Korea.
(5)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Pukyong National University, Busan 
48513, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Biotechnology, Yonsei University, Seoul 03722, Republic of 
Korea.
(7)Division of Bio-Medical Science & Technology, KIST School, Korea National 
University of Science and Technology (UST), Seoul 02792, Republic of Korea.
(8)Advanced Analysis and Data Center, Korea Institute of Science and Technology, 
Seoul 136-791, Republic of Korea.
(9)KHU-KIST Department of Converging Science and Technology, Kyung Hee 
University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea.
(10)Natural Product Research Team, Gyeonggi Biocenter, Gyeonggi-do Business and 
Science Accelerator, Suwon 16229, Republic of Korea.
(11)KIST-SKKU Brain Research Center, SKKU Institute for Convergence, 
Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon 16419, Republic of Korea.

Gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) are valuable tools in pharmacological and biological 
research, offering unique properties for drug delivery in the treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases. This study investigates the potential of gold 
nanoparticles loaded with afzelin, a natural chemical extracted from Ribes 
fasciculatum, to enhance its therapeutic effects and overcome the limitations of 
using natural compounds regarding low productivity. We hypothesized that the 
combined treatment of AuNPs with afzelin (AuNP-afzelin) would remarkably enforce 
neuroprotective effects compared with the single treatment of afzelin. Central 
administration of AuNP-afzelin (10 ng of afzelin) indicated improvements in 
cognition and memory-involved assessments of behavioral tests, comparing single 
treatments of afzelin (10 or 100 ng of afzelin) in scopolamine-induced AD mice. 
AuNP-afzelin also performed superior neuroprotective effects of rescuing mature 
neuronal cells and recovered cholinergic dysfunction compared to afzelin alone, 
according to further investigations of BDNF-pCREB-pAkt signaling, long-term 
potentiation, and doublecortin (DCX) expression in the hippocampus. This study 
highlights the potential of afzelin with gold nanoparticles as a promising 
therapeutic approach for mitigating cognitive impairments associated with 
neurodegenerative diseases and offers a new avenue for future research and drug 
development.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00766
PMID: 39976589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14591. doi: 10.1002/alz.14591.

Implementing a tridimensional diagnostic framework for personalized medicine in 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Menendez-Gonzalez M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina, Universidad de Oviedo, Oviedo, Spain.
(2)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, Oviedo, 
Spain.
(3)Grupo de Investigación Básica-Clínica en Neurología, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria del Principado de Asturias, Oviedo, Spain.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) pose a significant challenge in modern 
medicine due to their clinical heterogeneity, multifactorial etiologies, and 
frequent co-pathologies. Traditional diagnostic systems, based on clinical 
symptoms and post mortem findings, are limited in capturing the complex 
interactions among genetic, molecular, and neuroanatomical factors. This 
manuscript introduces a novel tridimensional diagnostic framework that 
integrates these factors across three key axes: etiology (genetic and 
environmental influences), molecular markers (primary and secondary biomarkers), 
and neuroanatomoclinical correlations. Through case studies, we demonstrate the 
framework's ability to synthesize incomplete datasets, stratify patients, and 
guide precision medicine. By incorporating omics technologies, neuroimaging, and 
AI-driven probabilistic modeling, the framework enhances diagnostic accuracy and 
clinical relevance. This approach may contribute to overcoming the limitations 
of traditional nosologies, offering a scalable and adaptable tool for both 
clinical practice and research and advancing the field of precision medicine in 
NDD management. HIGHLIGHTS: Tridimensional diagnostic system: We propose a new 
framework that incorporates three axes - etiology, molecular markers, and 
neuroanatomical-clinical correlations - to enhance diagnostic accuracy for NDDs. 
Personalized medicine: The tridimensional system enables the integration of 
genetic, molecular, and clinical data, allowing for highly personalized 
treatment strategies tailored to individual patients. Proteinopathies as key 
biomarkers: This diagnostic system emphasizes the use of primary proteinopathies 
(amyloid, tau, synuclein) and secondary biomarkers (eg, NfL, GFAP) to monitor 
disease progression and treatment efficacy. Addressing clinical heterogeneity: 
The framework accommodates the complexity and heterogeneity of NDDs, offering an 
adaptable diagnostic approach for classical conditions like Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and ALS. Case studies and 
real-world application: Practical case studies illustrate how this system can be 
implemented in clinical practice, enabling the combination of DMTs with 
symptomatic treatments.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14591
PMCID: PMC11840702
PMID: 39976261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosure is available in the Supporting Information.


28. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2025 Feb-Mar;47(1-2):67-89. doi: 
10.1080/13803395.2025.2464633. Epub 2025 Feb 20.

Usability of the Mayo Test Drive remote self-administered web-based cognitive 
screening battery in adults aged 35-100 with and without cognitive impairment.

Patel JS(1), Christianson TJ(2), Monahan LT(1), Frank RD(2), Fan WZ(2), Stricker 
JL(3), Kremers WK(2), Karstens AJ(1), Machulda MM(1), Fields JA(1), Hassenstab 
J(4), Jack CR Jr(5), Botha H(6), Graff-Radford J(6), Petersen RC(6), Stricker 
NH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurocognitive Disorders, Department of Psychiatry and 
Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(2)Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Department of Quantitative 
Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)Department of Information Technology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology and Psychological & Brain Sciences, Washington 
University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Mayo Test Drive (MTD): Mayo Test Development through Rapid 
Iteration, Validation and Expansion, is a web-based remote cognitive assessment 
platform for self-administered neuropsychological measures with previously 
demonstrated validity and reliability. We examined the usability of MTD and 
hypothesized that completion rates would be greater than 90%. We explored 
whether completion and participation rates differed by cognitive status and 
demographic factors.
METHODS: A total of 1,950 Mayo Clinic Study of Aging and Mayo Alzheimer's 
Disease Research Center participants (97% White, 99% Non-Hispanic) were invited 
to participate in this ancillary, uncompensated remote study. Most invitees were 
cognitively unimpaired (CU; n = 1,769; 90.7%) and 9.3% were cognitively impaired 
(CI; n = 181). Usability was objectively defined as the percentage of 
participants who completed a session after initiating a session for a given 
timepoint (i.e. completion rates).
RESULTS: Baseline session completion rates were 98.5% (n = 1199/1217 
participants, mean age 71, SD = 12, range 35-100) and were comparable between CU 
(98.7%) and CI (95.0%) groups (p = .23). Completion rates did not significantly 
differ by age groups (p > .10) and remained high in individuals 80+ (n = 251, 
97.3%). Participation rates were higher in the CU (n = 1142, 65.4%) versus CI 
(n = 57, 33.1%) group (p < .001); participants were younger and had more years 
of education (p's < .001). Adherence (i.e. retention) rate for a 7.5-month 
follow-up session was 89%. Average session duration was 16 min. Most 
participants used a personal computer (62.7%), followed by a smartphone (22.2%) 
or tablet (14.8%). Comments entered by 36.4% of participants reflected several 
themes including acceptability, face validity, usability, and comments 
informative for session context.
CONCLUSIONS: MTD demonstrated high usability as defined by completion rates in 
this research sample that includes a broad age range, though participation rates 
are lower in individuals with cognitive impairment. Results support good 
adherence at follow-up, feasibility through mean session duration, and 
acceptability based on qualitative analysis of participant comments.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2025.2464633
PMCID: PMC12129114
PMID: 39976252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Dr. Patel has nothing to 
disclose. Ms. Christianson reports grants from NIH during the conduct of the 
study. Mr. Monahan has nothing to disclose. Mr. Frank reports grants from 
National Institutes of Health (NIH) during the conduct of the study. Ms. Fan 
reports grants from NIH during the conduct of the study. Dr. John Stricker 
reports grants from NIH during the conduct of the study; and a Mayo Clinic 
invention disclosure has been submitted for the Stricker Learning Span and the 
Mayo Test Drive platform. Dr. Kremers reports grants from NIH during the conduct 
of the study. Dr. Karstens reports grants from NIH during the conduct of the 
study. Dr. Machulda reports grants from National Institutes of Health during the 
conduct of the study. Dr. Fields reports grants from NIH and grants from the 
Mangurian Foundation outside the submitted work. Dr. Hassenstab reports grants 
from NIH during the conduct of the study; personal fees from Parabon Nanolabs, 
personal fees from Roche, personal fees from AlzPath, personal fees from 
Prothena, personal fees and other (serves on Data Safety Monitoring 
Board/Advisory Board) from Caring Bridge (National Institute on Aging 
sponsored), personal fees and other (serves on Data Safety Monitoring 
Board/Advisory Board) from Wall-E (National Institute on Aging sponsored) 
outside the submitted work. Dr. Jack reports grants from NIH and grants from GHR 
Foundation during the conduct of the study; and Dr. Jack receives research 
support from the Alexander Family Alzheimer’s Disease Research Professorship of 
the Mayo Clinic. Dr. Botha reports grants from NIH outside the submitted work. 
Dr. Graff-Radford reports grants from NIH outside the submitted work; and serves 
as the site-PI for a clinical trial co-sponsored by Eisai, cognition 
therapeutics and NIH, and serves on the Data Safety and Monitoring Board for 
StrokeNET. Dr. Petersen reports grants from NIH during the conduct of the study; 
personal fees from Oxford University Press, personal fees from UpToDate, 
personal fees from Roche, Inc., personal fees from Genentech, Inc., personal 
fees from Eli Lilly and Co., and personal fees from Nestle, Inc., outside the 
submitted work. Dr. Nikki Stricker reports grants from NIH during the conduct of 
the study; and a Mayo Clinic invention disclosure has been submitted for the 
Stricker Learning Span and the Mayo Test Drive platform. She receives no 
personal compensation from any commercial entity.


29. J Enzyme Inhib Med Chem. 2025 Dec;40(1):2466846. doi: 
10.1080/14756366.2025.2466846. Epub 2025 Feb 20.

Identification of a novel pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridine compound as a potent glycogen 
synthase kinase 3β inhibitor for treating Alzheimer's disease.

Xun QQ(1)(2), Zhang J(1), Feng L(3), Ma YY(1), Li Y(1), Shi XL(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Center, Affiliated Hospital of Jining Medical University, 
Jining Medical University, Jining, Shandong, China.
(2)School of Clinical Medicine, Jining Medical University, Jining, Shandong, 
China.
(3)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Jining Medical 
University, Jining Medical University, Jining, Shandong, China.

Herein, a novel pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridine-based glycogen synthase kinase 3β 
(GSK-3β) inhibitor, S01, was rationally designed and synthesised to target 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). S01 inhibited GSK-3β, with an IC50 of 0.35 ± 0.06 nM, 
and had an acceptable kinase selectivity for 24 structurally similar kinases. 
Western blotting assays indicated that S01 efficiently increased the expression 
of p-GSK-3β-Ser9 and decreased p-tau-Ser396 levels in a dose-dependent manner. 
In vitro cell experiments, S01 showed low cytotoxicity to SH-SY5Y cells, 
significantly upregulated the expression of β-catenin and neurogenesis-related 
biomarkers, and effectively promoted the outgrowth of differentiated neuronal 
neurites. Moreover, S01 substantially ameliorated dyskinesia in AlCl3-induced 
zebrafish AD models at a concentration of 0.12 μM, which was more potent than 
Donepezil (8 μM) under identical conditions. Acute toxicity experiments further 
confirmed the safety of S01 in vivo. Our findings suggested that S01 is a 
prospective GSK-3β inhibitor and can be tested as a candidate for treating AD.

DOI: 10.1080/14756366.2025.2466846
PMCID: PMC11843656
PMID: 39976249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the authors.


30. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025;22(1):56-82. doi:
10.2174/0115672050364292250113063513.

Microglial Modulation in Alzheimer's Disease: Central Players in 
Neuroinflammation and Pathogenesis.

Hussain MS(1), Khan Y(2), Fatima R(3), Maqbool M(4), Ramalingam PS(5), Khan 
MG(6), Bisht AS(7).

Author information:
(1)Uttaranchal Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Uttaranchal University, 
Dehradun 248007, Uttarakhand, India.
(2)Institute of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering (Health Division), The 
University of Agriculture, Peshawar, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Petroleum & Energy Studies, Energy 
Acres, Dehradun 248007, Uttarakhand, India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Kashmir, Srinagar190006, 
Jammu and Kashmir, India.
(5)Protein Engineering lab, School of Biosciences and Technology, Vellore 
Institute of Technology, Katpadi, Vellore 632014, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, Daksh Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, 
Chhatarpur, Madhya Pradesh 471001, India.
(7)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shri Guru Ram Rai University, Patel Nagar, 
Dehradun 248001, Uttarakhand, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related, progressive neurodegenerative 
disorder of cognition with clinical features and anatomical hallmarks of 
amyloid-β plaques and/or neurofibrillary tangles. New studies revealed that 
microglia, the native immune cells in the brain, are crucial in the development 
of AD. The present review aims at outlining various roles of microglia in AD 
especially targeting their role in neuroinflammation. These indicate that 
microglial dysfunction contributes to AD pathology by affecting both amyloid-β 
phagocytosis and tau hyperphosphorylation. Other investigative molecular 
perpetrators, including TREM2, also influence the microglial relevance to 
amyloid and tau, as well as the overall disease phase. The functional microglia 
can protect neurons, while the dysfunctional one has the capability of derailing 
neuronal potentials and aggravating neurodegeneration. We have also discussed 
therapeutic strategies that start with targeting microglia to reduce 
neuroinflammation and reinstate balance. However, certain problems, including 
the side effects of microglial modulation, cost constraint, and accessibility, 
are areas of concern. In this review, the author presents the current state of 
knowledge on the potential of microglia-targeted treatments, their risks, and 
benefits. Thus, this article emphasizes the importance of the expansion of 
research to decipher the exact manipulation of microglia in AD with the goal of 
applying these findings given therapeutic approaches.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050364292250113063513
PMID: 39976100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Curr Neuropharmacol. 2025 Feb 18. doi: 10.2174/011570159X349365250128072146. 
Online ahead of print.

Beneficial and Detrimental Effects of Uric Acid on Alzheimer's Disease.

Tovchiga OV(1), Inkielewicz-Stepniak I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Pathophysiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical 
University of Gdansk, Debinki 7, building 27, Gdansk, PL-80211, Poland.

The interconnection between brain function and hyperuricemia remains 
controversial since the available evidence indicates both the potent 
neuroprotective role of uric and its negative cardiovascular and metabolic 
effects, possible prooxidant activity. A mixed (protective and risk) effect of 
uric acid on neurological disorders was assumed. Among the neurodegenerative 
diseases, Alzheimer's disease remains the most prevalent, causes disability, and 
lacks highly effective treatments. Therefore, this review aims to delineate the 
beneficial and detrimental effects of uric acid on Alzheimer's disease. This can 
not only facilitate estimating the benefits and risks of urate-lowering or 
urate-increasing interventions in different conditions but also can enhance 
understanding of the molecular pathways associated with the protective role of 
uric acid, leading to the identification of new therapeutic targets for 
neuroprotection. Firstly, we addressed interconnections between UA and AD in 
different patients and population subgroups. Secondly, we analysed which 
differences can arise at the level of uric acid transport to the brain, its 
influence on BBB, and its presence in brain tissue and cerebrospinal fluid. Such 
aspects as xanthine oxidase interrelationship with the risk of cognitive 
impairment was elucidated, as well as the unexpected interconnection between 
uric acid exchange and the cholinergic system. Finally, an analysis was done of 
the beneficial and detrimental effects of uric acid on such targets of 
Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis as the amyloid-β pathway, proinflammatory 
markers, peroxynitrite scavenging, and other aspects of prooxidant-antioxidant 
status.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/011570159X349365250128072146
PMID: 39976039


32. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2025;26(11):1777-1795. doi: 
10.2174/0113892010298545241108062449.

Advances in Molecular Docking Techniques for Targeting Protein Misfolding in 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Singh K(1), Gupta JK(1), Narayan S(2), Rani K(3), Jain D(4), Porwal P(5), Sharma 
MC(6), Kumar S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, GLA 
University, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Goel Institute of Pharmacy and Sciences, Lucknow, 
India.
(3)Department of Chemistry, SGT College of Pharmacy, SGT University, Gurugram, 
122505, Haryana, India.
(4)Department of Microbiology, School of Applied and Life Sciences, Uttaranchal 
University, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, India.
(5)Department of Chemistry, FS College of Pharmacy and Research Center, FS 
College of Pharmacy and Research Centre, FS University, Shikohabad, Uttar 
Pradesh, India.
(6)School of Pharmacy, Devi Ahilya Vishwavidalaya, Indore, (M.P.), India.

Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's 
disease, represent a significant global health challenge with limited 
therapeutic options. Protein misfolding and aggregation, a common pathological 
hallmark in these disorders, have emerged as promising targets for therapeutic 
intervention. Molecular docking techniques have played a pivotal role in the 
identification and design of small molecules that can modulate protein 
misfolding, offering new hope for effective treatments. This review provides an 
overview of recent advancements in molecular docking techniques for targeting 
protein misfolding in neurodegenerative diseases. We discuss the principles and 
methodologies behind molecular docking, including various scoring functions and 
algorithms employed for accurate ligand-protein interactions. Additionally, we 
explore the use of molecular dynamics simulations and machine learning 
approaches to enhance the precision of docking studies. Furthermore, we 
highlight case studies and success stories where molecular docking has 
contributed to the discovery of potential drug candidates for neurodegenerative 
diseases. These include compounds that inhibit amyloid-β aggregation in 
Alzheimer's disease, α-synuclein oligomerisation in Parkinson's disease, and 
mutant huntingtin aggregation in Huntington's disease. We also discuss the 
problems and restrictions of molecular docking related to neurodegenerative 
diseases, such as how to accurately show the flexibility of proteins and why 
docking results need to be confirmed by experiments. We also discuss the 
structural biology methods, such as cryo-electron microscopy and X-ray 
crystallography, and how these techniques might help in improving molecular 
docking studies.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113892010298545241108062449
PMID: 39976032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Jan 22:rs.3.rs-5829037. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-5829037/v1.

Isotope Encoded Spatial Biology Identifies Amyloid Plaque-Age-Dependent 
Structural Maturation, Synaptic Loss, and Increased Toxicity.

Wood JI(1)(2), Dulewicz M(1), Ge J(1), Stringer K(1)(2), Szadziewska A(1), Desai 
S(1)(2), Koutarapu S(1), Hajar HB(2), Fenson L(1), Blennow K(1)(3)(4)(5), 
Zetterberg H(1)(3)(6)(7)(8)(9), Cummings DM(2), Savas JN(10), Edwards FA(2), 
Hanrieder J(1)(3)(6)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Sahlgrenska Academy at the 
University of Gothenburg, Mölndal Hospital, House V, S-431 80 Mölndal, Sweden.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology, University College 
London, Gower Street, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Clinical Neurochemistry LaboratoryMemory Clinic, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Mölndal Hospital, House V, S-431 80 Mölndal, Sweden.
(4)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, P.R. China.
(6)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
University College London, Queens Square, WC1N 3BG London, United Kingdom.
(7)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
PR China.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(10)Department of Neurology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.
(11)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.

Update in
    Nat Commun. 2025 Sep 1;16(1):8170. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-63328-y.

Understanding how amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques form and progress to neurotoxicity 
in Alzheimer's disease remains a significant challenge. This study aims to 
elucidate the processes involved in Aβ plaque formation and maturation using a 
knock-in Aβ mouse model (App NL-F/NL-F ). By employing mass spectrometry imaging 
and stable isotope labeling, we timestamped Aβ plaques from their initial 
deposition, enabling the spatial tracking of plaque aging. Correlating 
single-plaque spatial transcriptomics with time since seeding, allowed us to 
track gene-expression changes specifically associated with plaque age, 
independent of chronological age of the mouse or disease severity. We found that 
plaque age, within sections from individual mice aged from 10 to 18 months, 
negatively correlates with synaptic gene expression. Further, correlation with 
hyperspectral confocal microscopy using structure-specific dyes revealed a 
positive link between plaque age and structural maturity, with older plaques 
identified as more compact and associated with significantly greater synapse 
loss and toxicity.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-5829037/v1
PMCID: PMC11838767
PMID: 39975899

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: HZ has served at scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work).


34. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Feb 19;11(1):e70054. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70054. 
eCollection 2025 Jan-Mar.

The Dementia Literacy Assessment (DeLA): A novel measure of Alzheimer's disease 
and related disorders health literacy in diverse populations.

Galvin JE(1), Germain DM(1), Moore CP(1), Jeanty JA(1), Tofaeono V(2), Wiese 
LK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology Comprehensive Center for Brain Health Miller School 
of Medicine University of Miami Boca Raton Florida USA.
(2)American Samoa Community Cancer Coalition Pago American Samoa USA.
(3)Christine E. Lynn College of Nursing Florida Atlantic University Boca Raton 
Florida USA.

INTRODUCTION: Low health literacy about Alzheimer's disease and related 
disorders (ADRD) may limit help-seeking, early detection, and enrollment in 
clinical trials, particularly in minoritized communities. We created the 
Dementia Literacy Assessment (DeLA) to improve ADRD health literacy.
METHODS: The DeLA, a storytelling method that included culturally adaptable 
vignettes embedded with important factoids about ADRD, was administered to 213 
participants from urban and rural regions of Palm Beach and Broward County in 
Florida and 193 participants in American Samoa.
RESULTS: The DeLA increased dementia health literacy and performed well across 
different participant characteristics (age, sex, education, geographic locale, 
race, ethnicity, and cognitive performance). Gains in ADRD health literacy were 
associated with older age, more education, better socioeconomic status, greater 
resilience, and better cognitive performance.
DISCUSSION: Increasing ADRD health literacy could increase health-seeking 
behaviors in diverse populations for treatment, enrich recruitment into clinical 
trials, and may help reduce disparities in health outcomes.
HIGHLIGHTS: Low health literacy about Alzheimer's disease and related disorders 
(ADRD) may limit help-seeking, early detection, and enrollment in clinical 
trials, particularly in minoritized communities.The Dementia Literacy Assessment 
(DeLA), a storytelling method that included culturally adaptable vignettes 
embedded with important factoids about ADRD, was administered to 406 
participants from urban and rural regions of Palm Beach and Broward County in 
Florida and American Samoa (11.8% White, 39.8% Black or African American, and 
48.4% Pacific Islander [predominantly Samoan] individuals).The DeLA increased 
dementia health literacy and performed well across different participant 
characteristics (age, sex, education, geographic locale, race, and cognitive 
performance).Gains in ADRD health literacy were associated with older age, more 
education, better socioeconomic status, greater resilience, and better cognitive 
performance.Increasing ADRD health literacy could increase health-seeking 
behaviors in diverse populations for treatment, enrich recruitment into clinical 
trials, and help reduce disparities in health outcomes.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70054
PMCID: PMC11837737
PMID: 39975469

Conflict of interest statement: James E. Galvin and Lisa K. Wiese are the 
co‐creators of the Dementia Literacy Assessment (DeLA) and the copyright is 
issued to the University of Miami, Miller School of Medicine. James E. Galvin is 
the creator of the Quick Dementia Rating System, Resilience Index, Vulnerability 
Index, mCAIDE, and Number Symbol Coding Test used in this study. Cognivue 
Clarity is manufactured by Cognivue Inc. (Victor, NY). James E. Galvin is the 
Chief Scientific Officer for Cognivue, Inc. and receives consulting fees. The 
other authors (Deborah M. Germain, Claudia P. Moore, Jennifer A. Jeanty, and 
Vaatausili Tofaeono) have nothing to disclose. Author disclosures are available 
in the Supporting Information.


35. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Feb 14:2025.02.09.637107. doi: 
10.1101/2025.02.09.637107.

Cholesterol-mediated Lysosomal Dysfunction in APOE4 Astrocytes Promotes 
α-Synuclein Pathology in Human Brain Tissue.

Mesentier-Louro LA(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Goldman C(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), 
Ndayisaba A(6)(8)(9)(10), Buonfiglioli A(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Rooklin 
RB(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Schuldt BR(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Uchitelev A(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(11), 
Khurana V(6)(8)(9)(10)(12)(13), Blanchard JW(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(14).

Author information:
(1)Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Friedman Brain Institute, Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Mount Sinai, New York, NY USA.
(5)Black Family Stem Cell Institute, Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) Collaborative Research Network, 
Chevy Chase, MD 20815, USA.
(7)These authors contributed equally.
(8)Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Division of Movement Disorders, American Parkinson Disease Association (APDA) 
Center for Advanced Research and MSA Center of Excellence, Department of 
Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(10)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Macaulay Honors College at Hunter College, New York, NY, USA.
(12)The Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(13)Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(14)Lead contact.

The pathological hallmark of neurodegenerative disease is the aberrant 
post-translational modification and aggregation of proteins leading to the 
formation of insoluble protein inclusions. Genetic factors like APOE4 are known 
to increase the prevalence and severity of tau, amyloid, and α-Synuclein 
inclusions. However, the human brain is largely inaccessible during this 
process, limiting our mechanistic understanding. Here, we developed an 
iPSC-based 3D model that integrates neurons, glia, myelin, and cerebrovascular 
cells into a functional human brain tissue (miBrain). Like the human brain, we 
found pathogenic phosphorylation and aggregation of α-Synuclein is increased in 
the APOE4 miBrain. Combinatorial experiments revealed that lipid-droplet 
formation in APOE4 astrocytes impairs the degradation of α-synuclein and leads 
to a pathogenic transformation that seeds neuronal inclusions of α-Synuclein. 
Collectively, this study establishes a robust model for investigating protein 
inclusions in human brain tissue and highlights the role of astrocytes and 
cholesterol in APOE4-mediated pathologies, opening therapeutic opportunities.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.02.09.637107
PMCID: PMC11839026
PMID: 39975381

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests V.K. is a cofounder of 
and senior advisor to DaCapo Brainscience and Yumanity Therapeutics, companies 
focused on CNS diseases. L.A.M.L, J.W.B., C.G., and R.B.R. are inventors on 
patent applications filed by Mount Sinai Innovation Partners on the methods 
described in this study. A.N. and V.K. are inventors on a patent application 
filed by Brigham and Women’s Hospital related to the induced inclusion iPSC 
models.


36. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jan 28:2025.01.27.634057. doi: 
10.1101/2025.01.27.634057.

Target the Heart: a new axis of Alzheimer's disease prevention.

Heller LI(1), Lowe AS(1), Del Rosario Hernández T(1), Gore SV(1), Chatterjee 
M(2), Creton R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry, Brown 
University, Providence, Rhode Island, United States.
(2)Amity Institute of Neuropsychology and Neurosciences, Amity University, 
Noida, 201303, India.

Update in
    J Dement Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;2(2):10. doi: 10.3390/jdad2020010.

Cyclosporine A and other calcineurin inhibitors have been identified as 
prospective treatments for preventing Alzheimer's disease. Utilizing a neural 
network model, Z-LaP Tracker, we previously found that calcineurin inhibitors 
elicit a unique behavioral profile in zebrafish larvae characterized by 
increased activity, acoustic hyperexcitability, and reduced visually guided 
behaviors. Screening a large library of FDA-approved drugs using Z-LaP Tracker 
revealed a cluster of 65 drugs demonstrating a cyclosporine A-like behavioral 
profile. 14 of these drugs were heart medications, including angiotensin 
receptor blockers, beta-blockers, alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonists, and a 
statin. This suggests some heart medications may be effective in preventing or 
ameliorating Alzheimer's disease pathology. Other studies have shown that many 
of these 14 drugs directly or indirectly inhibit the calcineurin-NFAT pathway, 
alike cyclosporine A. Dual administration of the heart medications with 
cyclosporine A in Z-LaP Tracker revealed synergistic effects: lower doses of 
each heart medication could be delivered in conjunction with a lower dose of 
cyclosporine A to evoke a similar or larger behavioral effect than higher doses 
of each drug independently. This indicates that co-administering a low dose of 
cyclosporine A with select cardiac drugs could be a potentially effective 
treatment strategy for Alzheimer's disease and cardiovascular dysfunction, while 
mitigating side effects associated with higher doses of cyclosporine A. Given 
that heart disease precedes Alzheimer's disease in many patients, physicians may 
be able to create a treatment regimen that simultaneously addresses both 
conditions. Our results suggest that cyclosporine A combined with simvastatin, 
irbesartan, cilostazol, doxazosin, or nebivolol are the most promising 
candidates for future exploration.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.01.27.634057
PMCID: PMC11838187
PMID: 39975163

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures There are no conflicts of interest.


37. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Feb 5:2025.01.30.635593. doi: 
10.1101/2025.01.30.635593.

Causal differential expression analysis under unmeasured confounders with 
causarray.

Du JH(1)(2), Shen M(1), Mathys H(3), Roeder K(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Data Science, Carnegie Mellon University.
(2)Machine Learning Department, Carnegie Mellon University.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh.
(4)Computational Biology Department, Carnegie Mellon University.

Advances in single-cell sequencing and CRISPR technologies have enabled detailed 
case-control comparisons and experimental perturbations at single-cell 
resolution. However, uncovering causal relationships in observational genomic 
data remains challenging due to selection bias and inadequate adjustment for 
unmeasured confounders, particularly in heterogeneous datasets. To address these 
challenges, we introduce causarray, a doubly robust causal inference framework 
for analyzing array-based genomic data at both bulk-cell and single-cell levels. 
causarray integrates a generalized confounder adjustment method to account for 
unmeasured confounders and employs semiparametric inference with flexible 
machine learning techniques to ensure robust statistical estimation of treatment 
effects. Benchmarking results show that causarray robustly separates treatment 
effects from confounders while preserving biological signals across diverse 
settings. We also apply causarray to two single-cell genomic studies: (1) an in 
vivo Perturb-seq study of autism risk genes in developing mouse brains and (2) a 
case-control study of Alzheimer's disease using three human brain transcriptomic 
datasets. In these applications, causarray identifies clustered causal effects 
of multiple autism risk genes and consistent causally affected genes across 
Alzheimer's disease datasets, uncovering biologically relevant pathways directly 
linked to neuronal development and synaptic functions that are critical for 
understanding disease pathology.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.01.30.635593
PMCID: PMC11838442
PMID: 39975097


38. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2025 Jan 29;8(2):533-542. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.4c00629. eCollection 2025 Feb 14.

Novel Soluble Epoxide Hydrolase Inhibitor: Toward Regulatory Preclinical 
Studies.

Jarne-Ferrer J(1), Sánchez J(2)(3), Codony S(2), Schneider M(4), Müller CE(4), 
Sanfeliu C(5), Franco R(6), Vazquez S(2)(3), Griñán-Ferré C(1)(6), Pallàs 
M(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Departament de Farmacologia i Química Terapèutica, Institut de 
Neurociències-Universitat de Barcelona, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Laboratori de Química Farmacèutica, Facultat de Farmàcia i Ciències de 
l'Alimentació, Universitat de Barcelona, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Institute of Biomedicine of the University of Barcelona (IBUB), Universitat 
de Barcelona, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.
(4)PharmaCenter Bonn, Pharmaceutical Institute, Pharmaceutical & Medicinal 
Chemistry, University of Bonn, 53121 Bonn, Germany.
(5)Institute of Biomedical Research of Barcelona (IIBB), CSIC, 08036 Barcelona, 
Spain.
(6)Centro de Investigación en Red, Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 28029 Madrid, Spain.

Neuroinflammation is widely recognized as a key pathological hallmark of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, inhibiting soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) 
has emerged as a promising therapeutic strategy for AD. sEH plays a pivotal role 
in neuroinflammation by hydrolyzing epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs), which have 
anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties, into pro-inflammatory 
dihydroepoxyeicosatrienoic acids (DHETs). Furthermore, the overexpression of the 
enzyme in the brains of AD patients and animal models of the disease highlights 
its relevance as a therapeutic target. Our previous studies, using the inhibitor 
UB-SCG-51 demonstrated that sEH inhibition regulates neuroinflammation and other 
mechanisms, such as the unfolded protein response pathway, while reducing 
autophagy, apoptosis, and neuronal death, thereby promoting neuroprotection. 
Building on these findings, we evaluated the arginine salt of the compound, 
designated UB-SCG-74, which offers improved oral absorption compared to that of 
UB-SCG-51 while retaining high permeability, potency, and selectivity. In 
experiments using 5XFAD mice, UB-SCG-74 treatment significantly improved 
cognition and synaptic plasticity, outperforming donepezil, a standard AD drug, 
and ibuprofen, an anti-inflammatory drug. Remarkably, these benefits persisted 
for 4 weeks after administration cessation, suggesting lasting therapeutic 
effects. Safety pharmacology studies showed no toxicity, supporting the 
advancement of UB-SCG-74 into preclinical regulatory evaluation. Our findings 
further indicate that sEH inhibition engages multiple neuroprotective pathways, 
potentially modifying both AD symptoms and disease progression, thus reinforcing 
its therapeutic potential.

© 2025 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.4c00629
PMCID: PMC11833725
PMID: 39974649

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


39. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2025 Jan 8;8(2):271-285. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.4c00614. eCollection 2025 Feb 14.

Unveiling the Interplay: Neurovascular Coupling, Astrocytes and G 
Protein-Coupled Receptors in Alzheimer's Disease.

Al-Jaf S(1), Soliman AY(2)(3), El-Yazbi AF(2)(3), Abd-Elrahman KS(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics, and Djavad 
Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health, The University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy and Research and Innovation Hub, Alamein International 
University, Alamein, Matrouh 51718, Egypt.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Alexandria 
University, Alexandria 21521, Egypt.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Khalifa University, Abu Dhabi 127788, United Arab Emirates.

Astrocytes are a type of glial cell that are involved in actively modulating 
synaptic plasticity, neurotransmitter homeostasis, and neuroinflammatory 
responses. More importantly, they coordinate neuronal activity and cerebral 
blood flow (CBF) in what is known as neurovascular coupling (NVC). NVC is an 
essential mechanism that maintains the high energy demand the brain requires by 
supplying continuous and rapid supply of oxygen and nutrients through CBF. 
Impairment in NVC is one of the key events that triggers a spiral of occurrences 
that lead to the clinical advancement of Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is yet to 
be determined what the molecular manifestations of NVC impairment relate to; 
nonetheless, it is believed that alterations in G protein-coupled receptors 
(GPCRs) are responsible for exacerbating these effects. In this review, we 
summarize the current evidence supporting the involvement of GPCRs on astrocytes 
in NVC and the pathophysiology of AD. Additionally, we propose potential 
research directions to further elucidate the underlying mechanisms and evaluate 
the feasibility of targeting specific GPCRs as a therapeutic strategy to correct 
brain blood flow and memory impairments associated with AD.

© 2025 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.4c00614
PMCID: PMC11833731
PMID: 39974631

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


40. World J Psychiatry. 2025 Feb 19;15(2):99008. doi: 10.5498/wjp.v15.i2.99008. 
eCollection 2025 Feb 19.

Impact of dietary nutrition regimens based on body composition analysis on bone 
metabolism in Alzheimer's disease patients.

Wang XL(1), Zhao YR(2), Yu Y(3), Mao ZF(4), Tan SX(5), Yu SS(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Nutrition, The Third Hospital of Quzhou, Quzhou 
324000, Zhejiang Province, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Treatment Group, The Third Hospital of Quzhou, 
Quzhou 324000, Zhejiang Province, China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, The Third Hospital of Quzhou, Quzhou 324000, 
Zhejiang Province, China.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Third Hospital of Quzhou, Quzhou 
324000, Zhejiang Province, China.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, The Third Hospital of Quzhou, Quzhou 324000, 
Zhejiang Province, China.
(6)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, The Third Hospital of Quzhou, Quzhou 
324000, Zhejiang Province, China. 17015041@qq.com.

BACKGROUND: Body composition analysis (BCA) is primarily used in the management 
of conditions such as obesity and endocrine disorders. However, its potential in 
providing nutritional guidance for patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
remains relatively unexplored.
AIM: To explore the clinical efficacy of BCA-based dietary nutrition scheme on 
bone metabolism in AD patients.
METHODS: This retrospective study included 96 patients with AD complicated by 
osteoporosis who were admitted to The Third Hospital of Quzhou between January 
2023 and December 2024. Based on data from previous similar studies, the 
patients were randomly assigned to either a routine diet (RD) group (n = 48) or 
a personalized nutrition (PN) group (n = 48). The RD group received conventional 
dietary guidance, while the PN group received individualized diet intervention 
measures based on human BCA. The intervention period lasted for 12 weeks. Bone 
mineral density (BMD), body mass index (BMI), muscle mass, mineral content, 
osteocalcin, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, procollagen type I N-terminal propeptide 
(PINP), beta C-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen (β-CTX), and serum 
calcium were measured and compared between the two groups before and 12 weeks 
after the intervention.
RESULTS: No significant differences were observed between groups in terms of 
age, sex, height, BMI, or other baseline data (P > 0.05). In both groups, BMI 
did not show significant changes after the intervention (P > 0.05), whereas 
muscle mass and mineral content were significantly increased (P < 0.05). After 
the intervention, BMI in the PN group did not differ significantly from that of 
the RD group, but muscle mass and mineral content were significantly higher in 
the PN group (P < 0.05). After the intervention, a higher proportion of patients 
in the PN group had a T score > -1 compared to the RD group (P < 0.05). The 
mini-mental state examination (MMSE) score was similar in both groups before the 
intervention. However, 12 weeks after the intervention, the MMSE score in the PN 
group was significantly higher than that in the RD group (P < 0.05). In both 
groups, the MMSE score significantly increased 12 weeks post-intervention 
compared to pre-intervention levels (P < 0.05). Before the intervention, the 
levels of osteocalcin, serum calcium, PINP, β-CTX, and 25-hydroxyvitamin D were 
not significantly different between the two groups (P > 0.05). After 12 weeks of 
intervention, the PN group exhibited higher levels of osteocalcin, serum 
calcium, and 25-hydroxyvitamin D, as well as lower levels of PINP and β-CTX, 
compared to the RD group (P < 0.05). In both groups, osteocalcin, serum calcium, 
and 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels were significantly higher, while PINP and β-CTX 
levels were significantly lower after 12 weeks of intervention compared to 
baseline (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The human BCA-based dietary nutrition regimen plays a crucial role 
in improving BMD and bone metabolism, with effects that surpass those of 
conventional nutrition strategies. The findings of this study provide strong 
evidence for the nutritional management of AD patients.

©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.5498/wjp.v15.i2.99008
PMCID: PMC11758049
PMID: 39974500

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


41. Chem Bio Eng. 2024 Aug 12;1(8):664-677. doi: 10.1021/cbe.4c00110. eCollection
 2024 Sep 26.

Phe-Phe-Based Macroscopic Supramolecular Hydrogel Construction Strategies and 
Biomedical Applications.

Liu X(1), Jiang Q(1), Yin Y(2), Liang G(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Digital Medical Engineering, School of Biological 
Science and Medical Engineering, Southeast University, 2 Southeast University 
Road, Nanjing 211189, China.
(2)Collaborative Innovation Center of Tumor Marker Detection Technology, 
Equipment and Diagnosis Therapy Integration in Universities of Shandong, 
Shandong Province Key Laboratory of Detection Technology for Tumor Makers, 
School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Linyi University, Linyi 276005, 
China.
(3)Handan Norman Technology Company, Limited, Guantao 057750, China.

Since the phenylalanine (Phe) dipeptide moiety is referred to as an essential 
structure for building amyloid-β peptide from Alzheimer's disease, its wonderful 
assembly ability to form nanofibers has been extensively studied. Cross-linked 
Phe-Phe-based peptide nanofibers can construct networks, thus encapsulating the 
drugs to form supramolecular hydrogels. Recently, scientists have proposed a 
variety of Phe-Phe-based macroscopic supramolecular hydrogels and used them in 
biomedical applications. Therefore, we summarize the construction strategies of 
Phe-Phe-based macroscopic supramolecular hydrogels and list their represented 
biomedical applications (e.g., wound healing, eye protection, cancer therapy, 
etc.) since the birth of Phe-Phe-based supramolecular hydrogels. In addition, we 
present the perspectives and challenges of Phe-Phe-based macroscopic peptide 
hydrogels.

© 2024 The Authors. Co-published by Zhejiang University and American Chemical 
Society.

DOI: 10.1021/cbe.4c00110
PMCID: PMC11792915
PMID: 39974324

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


42. Cureus. 2025 Jan 20;17(1):e77700. doi: 10.7759/cureus.77700. eCollection 2025
 Jan.

A Case of Multiple Intracerebral Hemorrhages Due to Early-Onset Cerebral Amyloid 
Angiopathy With Alzheimer's Disease: Neuropathological Changes Three Decades 
After Childhood Neurosurgery.

Funakoshi T(1), Yamada M(1), Ikeda K(1), Yokokawa K(1), Saito T(1), Iwahara 
N(1), Suzuki S(1), Kimura Y(2), Akiyama Y(2), Mikuni N(2), Hisahara S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Sapporo Medical University, School of Medicine, 
Sapporo, JPN.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Sapporo Medical University, School of Medicine, 
Sapporo, JPN.

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a disease in which amyloid beta (Aβ) is 
deposited in blood vessels and meninges in the brain. Cerebral amyloid 
angiopathy typically occurs in the elderly but is also known to occur in younger 
patients with a history of childhood head trauma or dura graft following 
neurosurgical procedures. The patient was a 39-year-old female who had undergone 
neurosurgery for an arachnoid cyst in the right temporal lobe at the age of two 
years. Severe headache, dizziness, and right leg weakness developed abruptly. 
The Aβ42/40 ratio had decreased in cerebrospinal fluid. Brain MRI showed 
multiple cerebral hemorrhages. Considering CAA, a brain biopsy was performed. 
Pathological examination showed severe CAA in many leptomeningeal and cortical 
vessels. We reported early-onset CAA after neurosurgery in childhood. In young 
patients with cerebral hemorrhages, it is necessary to consider early-onset CAA 
following childhood head trauma or neurosurgery.

Copyright © 2025, Funakoshi et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.77700
PMCID: PMC11837224
PMID: 39974219

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all 
authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared 
that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted 
work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no 
financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


43. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jan 29:2024.10.29.24316289. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.29.24316289.

Safety and efficacy of long-term gantenerumab treatment in dominantly inherited 
Alzheimer's disease: an open label extension of the phase 2/3 multicentre, 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled platform DIAN-TU Trial.

Bateman RJ(1), Li Y(1), McDade EM(1), Llibre-Guerra JJ(1), Clifford DB(1), Atri 
A(2), Mills SL(1), Santacruz AM(1), Wang G(1), Supnet C(1), Benzinger TLS(1), 
Gordon BA(1), Ibanez L(1), Klein G(3), Baudler M(3), Doody RS(3), Delmar P(3), 
Kerchner GA(3), Bittner T(3), Wojtowicz J(3), Bonni A(3), Fontoura P(3), Hofmann 
C(3), Kulic L(3), Hassenstab J(1), Aschenbrenner AJ(1), Perrin RJ(1), Cruchaga 
C(1), Renton AE(4), Xiong C(1), Goate AA(4), Morris JC(1), Holtzman DM(1), 
Snider BJ(1), Mummery C(5), Brooks WS(6), Wallon D(7), Berman SB(8), Roberson 
E(9), Masters CL(10), Galasko DR(11), Jayadev S(12), Sanchez-Valle R(13), 
Pariente J(14), Kinsella J(15), van Dyck CH(16), Gauthier S(17), Robin Hsiung 
GY(18), Masellis M(19), Dubois B(20), Honig LS(21), Jack CR(22), Daniels A(1), 
Aguillón D(23), Allegri R(24), Chhatwal J(25), Day G(26), Fox N(5), Huey E(27), 
Ikeuchi T(28), Jucker M(29), Lee JH(30), Levey AI(31), Levin J(32), Lopera 
F(33), Roh J(34), Rosa-Neto P(17), Schofield PR(6); Dominantly Inherited 
Alzheimer’s Disease-Trials Unit.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.
(2)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Banner Health, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(3)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, 
Icahn School of Medicine Mt. Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, University College London, United Kingdom.
(6)Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(7)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Rouen, Rouen, France.
(8)University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(9)University of Alabama at Birmingham School of Medicine, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(10)University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(11)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, San Diego, 
CA, USA.
(12)Department of Neurology, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(13)Neurology Service, Hospital Clínic i Provincial de Barcelona, August Pi i 
Sunyer Biomedical Research Institute-Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(14)Department of Cognitive Neurology, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Toulouse, Toulouse, France.
(15)Department of Neurology, St Vincent's University Hospital, Ireland.
(16)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, 
USA.
(17)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill Center for Studies in 
Aging, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(18)Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(19)Department of Medicine, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(20)Neurological Institute, Salpetriere University Hospital, Paris, France.
(21)Department of Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, 
USA.
(22)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(23)Grupo de Neurociencias de Antioquia, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de 
Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(24)Department of Cognitive Neurology, Neuropsychiatry and Neuropsychology, 
Instituto de Investigaciones Neurologicas Raul Carrea (Fleni), Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.
(25)Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(26)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
(27)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Butler Hospital, Providence, 
RI, USA.
(28)Department of Molecular Genetics, Brain Research Institute, Niigata 
University, Niigata, Japan.
(29)Department Cellular Neurology, German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(DZNE) Tuebingen, Germany.
(30)Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, South Korea.
(31)Department of Pharmacology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(32)Department of Clinical Neurodegeneration, German Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Munich, Germany.
(33)Medicine School, Universidad de Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(34)Department of Neurology, Korea University Anam Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.

Update in
    Lancet Neurol. 2025 Apr;24(4):316-330. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00024-9.

BACKGROUND: Amyloid-plaque removal by monoclonal antibody therapies slows 
clinical progression in symptomatic Alzheimer's disease; however, the potential 
for delaying the onset of clinical symptoms in asymptomatic people is unknown. 
The Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network Trials Unit (DIAN-TU) is an ongoing 
platform trial assessing the safety and efficacy of multiple investigational 
products in participants with dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease (DIAD) 
caused by mutations. On the basis of findings of amyloid removal and downstream 
biological effects from the gantenerumab arm of the platform trial, we continued 
a 3-year open-label extension (OLE) study to assess the safety and efficacy of 
long-term treatment with high doses of gantenerumab.
METHODS: The randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind, phase 2/3 multi-arm 
trial (DIAN-TU-001) assessed solanezumab or gantenerumab versus placebo in 
participants who were between 15 years before to 10 years after their estimated 
years to symptom onset and had a Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) global score of 
0 (cognitively normal) to 1 (mild dementia). This study was followed by an OLE 
study of gantenerumab treatment, conducted at 18 study sites in Australia, 
Canada, France, Ireland, Puerto Rico, Spain, the UK, and USA. For inclusion in 
the OLE, participants at risk for DIAD had participated in the double-blind 
period of DIAN-TU-001 and were required to know their mutation status. We 
investigated increasing doses of gantenerumab up to 1500 mg subcutaneous every 2 
weeks. Due to the lack of a regulatory path for gantenerumab, the study was 
stopped early after a pre-specified interim analysis (when most participants had 
completed 2 years of treatment) of the clinical measure CDR-SB. The primary 
outcome for the final analysis was the amyloid plaque measure PiB-PET SUVR at 3 
years, assessed in the modified intention to treat population (defined as 
participants who received any gantenerumab treatment post-OLE baseline, had at 
least one PiB-PET SUVR assessment prior to gantenerumab treatment, and a 
post-baseline assessment). All participants who received at least one dose of 
study drug in the OLE were included in the safety analysis. DIAN-TU-001 
(NCT01760005) and the OLE (NCT06424236) are registered with clinicaltrials.gov.
FINDINGS: Of 74 participants who were recruited into the OLE study between June 
3, 2020 and April 22, 2021, 73 were enrolled and received gantenerumab 
treatment. 47 (64%) stopped dosing due to early termination of the study by the 
sponsor, and 13 (18%) prematurely discontinued the study for other reasons. The 
mITT population for the primary analysis comprised 55 participants. At the 
interim analysis, the hazard ratio for clinical decline of CDR-SB in 
asymptomatic mutation carriers was 0.79 (n=53, 95% CI 0.47 to 1.32) for 
participants who were treated with gantenerumab in either the double-blind or 
OLE period (Any Gant), and 0.53 (n=22, 0.27 to 1.03) for participants who were 
treated with gantenerumab the longest (Longest Gant). At the final analysis, the 
adjusted mean change from OLE baseline to year 3 in PiB-PET SUVR was -0.71 SUVR 
(95% CI -0.88 to -0.53, p<0.0001). Amyloid-related imaging abnormalities 
occurred in 53% (39/73) of participants: 47% (34/73) with microhaemorrhages, 30% 
(22/73) with oedema, and 6% (5/73) were associated with symptoms. No 
treatment-associated macrohaemorrhages or deaths occurred.
INTERPRETATION: Partial or short-term amyloid removal did not show significant 
clinical effects. However, long-term full amyloid removal potentially delayed 
symptom onset and dementia progression. Conclusions are limited due to the OLE 
design and use of external controls and need to be confirmed in long term 
trials.
FUNDING: National Institutes on Aging, Alzheimer's Association, GHR, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd/Genentech.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.29.24316289
PMCID: PMC11838922
PMID: 39974075

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests R.J.B. is Director of 
DIAN–TU and Principal Investigator of DIAN–TU-001. He receives research support 
from the NIA of the NIH, DIAN–TU trial pharmaceutical partner (Hoffman-La Roche 
Ltd), Alzheimer’s Association, GHR Foundation, Anonymous Organization, DIAN–TU 
Pharma Consortium (Active: AbbVie, Biogen, BMS, Eisai, Eli Lilly & Co., Ionis, 
Janssen, Prothena, Roche/Genentech. Previous: Amgen, AstraZeneca, Forum, 
Mithridion, Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, United Neuroscience). He has been a 
scientific advisor for NAPA Advisory Council Biogen, F. Hoffman-La 
Roche/Genentech Ltd, UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London 
and Stanford University. He has been an invited speaker for Alzheimer’s 
Association, Duke Margolis Alzheimer’s Roundtable, BrightFocus Foundation, Tau 
Consortium, NAPA Advisory Council on Alzheimer’s Research, CTAD, FBRI, Beeson, 
Adler Symposium and Fondazione Prada. R.J.B. and D.M.H. are co-founders of C2N 
Diagnostics and receive income from C2N Diagnostics for serving on the 
scientific advisory board. Washington University has equity ownership interest 
in C2N Diagnostics. R.J.B. and D.M.H. are co-inventors of the stable isotope 
labeling kinetics and blood plasma assay technology licensed by Washington 
University to C2N Diagnostics. Through these relationships, Washington 
University, R.J.B. and D.M.H. are entitled to receive royalties and/or equity 
from the license agreement with C2N. E.M.M. is the Co-Director of the DIAN-TU. 
He receives research support from the NIA of the NIH, DIAN-TU-002 Trial 
pharmaceutical partner (Eli Lilly and Company), Alzheimer’s Association, and GHR 
Foundation. He has been a consultant to Astra Zeneca, F. Hoffman-LaRoche Ltd, 
Sanofi and Merck. He has been an invited speaker for Alzheimer’s Association, 
Projects in Knowledge (Kaplan), Neurology Live, American Academy of Neurology 
and University of Maryland. He has received support to attend meetings at 
Fondation Alzheimer, McGill University, University of Massachusetts and 
Australian and New Zealand Association of Neurologists. He reports serving on a 
Data Safety Committee for Alnylam and Alector. J.J.G.L. is Co-Medical Director 
of DIAN–TU. He receives research support from the NIA of the NIH and the 
Alzheimer’s Association. D.B.C. is Co-Medical Director of DIAN–TU. He receives 
royalties from Wolters Kluwer. He serves as scientific consultant to F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd/Genentech, Wave Life Sciences, Excision BioTherapeutics, 
Atara Biotherapeutics Inc, Sanofi Genzyme, Cellevolve Bio, Inc., Seagen Inc. and 
ICON (Teva). He has carried out legal consulting for Lewis, Thomason, King, 
Krieg and Waldrop (PML) and Loughren, Loughren, Loughren Powell Gilbert LLP. He 
serves on the Data Safety Monitoring Board for Wave Life Sciences, Excision 
Biotherapeutics Inc, Sanofi Genzyme, Atara Biotherapeutics Inc, Cellevolve Bio, 
Inc. G.W. serves as a consultant for Alector and Pharmapace. He serves on the 
data safety monitoring board for Eli Lilly and Co. T.L.S.B. has 
investigator-initiated research funding from the NIH, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, 
Siemens and Hyperfine. She is a consultant to Biogen, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Bristol 
Myers Squibb and Janssen and Janssen. She is on the Speaker’s Bureau for 
Medscape and Peerview. She serves on the data safety monitoring board for Eisai 
and Siemens. She provides unpaid leadership to the ASNR Alzheimer’s, RSNA 
Quantitative Imaging Committee, American College of Radiology/ALZ NET and NIH 
CNN Study Section Chair. B.A.G. receives research support from the NIA of the 
NIH. G.K., M.B.K., R.S.D., P.D., G.A.K., T.B., A.B., P.F., C.H. and L.K. are 
employees of F. Hoffmann La Roche. J.H. is a consultant to Parabon Nanolabs, 
Prothena and AlzPath. He serves on the data safety monitoring board for Caring 
Bridge and Wall-E. A.J.A. receives research support from the NIA of the NIH and 
he is a consultant to Albert Einstein College of Medicine. R.J.P. and A.E.R. 
receives research support from the NIA of the NIH. C.C. receives research 
support from the NIA of the NIH and the Michael J. Fox Foundation. He is a 
consultant for Circular Genomics and Alector. C.X. receives research support 
from the NIH and he is a consultant for Diadem. He serves of the FDA Advisory 
Committee on Imaging Medical Products. A.A.G. is a consultant for Genentech and 
Muna Therapeutics. J.C.M. is the Friedman Distinguished Professor of Neurology, 
Director of the Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer’s Disease Research 
Center, Associate Director of DIAN and Founding Principal Investigator of DIAN. 
His research is funded by NIH and his is a consultant for Barcelona Brain 
Research Center and the Native Alzheimer Disease-related resource center in 
Minority Aging Research. He has been an invited speaker for the AAIM Longer Life 
Foundation and the International Brain Health Symposium. He serves on the data 
safety monitoring board for Cure Alzheimer’s Fund and LEADS Advisory Board. 
D.M.H. receives research support from the NIH. He serves as a consultant for 
Genentech, Denali, and Cajal Neurosciences. He is a co-inventor of the stable 
isotope labeling kinetics and blood plasma assay technology licensed by 
Washington University to C2N Diagnostics. Through these relationships, 
Washington University, D.M.H. is entitled to receive royalties and/or equity 
from the license agreement with C2N. B.J.S. receives research clinical trial 
support from NIH, Biogen, Eisai, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann La Roche, Janssen and 
Alzheimer’s Association. She is a consultant for Eisai, Roche and Altheneum, 
Slingshot. She received honoraria from the AAN and the ANA. She receives 
royalties from Elsevier. C.M. receives research support from Biogen and the 
NIHR. She is a consultant for Eli Lilly, Biogen and Eisai. She has received 
honoraria from Eli Lilly and Eisai. She serves on the data safety monitoring 
board for Eli Lilly, Novartis and F. Hoffman La Roche/Genentech, Eisai and 
Immunobrain. E.R. receives research support from the NIH, ADDF and Bluefield 
Projectx. He receives royalties from Genentech. He is a consultant for AGTC. He 
serves on the data safety monitoring board for Eli Lilly and serves as fiduciary 
for the Society for Neuroscience. C.H.V.D. has served as a consultant for F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Cervel, Ono and Eisai and received grant support for 
clinical trials from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Eli Lilly and Company, Biogen, 
Genetech, Janssen, Eisaiand Cerevel. R.S.V. receives grant support from ISCIII. 
She is a consultant for UCB, Pfizer and Lilly. She has received honoraria from 
Neuraxpharm, and Roche. She serves on the data safety monitoring board of Wave 
Pharmaceuticals. W.S.B. received financial support from Roche to attend an 
educational meeting about management of Alzheimer’s disease. S.G. received 
honoraria from Lundbeck and Biogen, and travel support from TauRx. He serves on 
the data safety monitoring board for Alzheon, AmyriAD, Eisai, ENIGMA, Lilly, 
Okutsa, Nordisk, TauRx and AbbVie. He serves on the board of the Francis 
Foundation. D.R.G. is a consultant for Eisai, Biogen and Fujirebio, Inc. He has 
received honoraria from GE Healthcare and he serves on the data safety committee 
for Artery Therapeutics, Inc. G.S.H. receives research support from the NIH, 
CIHR, Biogen, Roche, Cassava and Eisai. He is a consultant for Biogen, Roche, 
Novonordisk, Eisai and Eli Lilly. He also serves unpaid as the president of the 
Consortium of Canadian Centres for Clinical Cognitive Research. M.M. receives 
research support from the Ontario Brain Institute, Women’s Brain Health 
Initiative, Brain Canada, Roche, Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Alector 
and Weston Brain Institute. He reports receiving royalties from Henry Stewart 
Talks. He is a consultant for Eli Lilly, Alector, Biogen, Wave Life Sciences, 
Eisai and Novo-Nordisk. He has received honoraria from MINT Memory Clinics and 
ECHO Dementia Series. He serves unpaid on committees for Alzheimer Society 
Canada and Parkinson Canada. B.D. is a consultant for Fondation Recherche 
Alzheimer, Qynapse and Eisai and is an unpaid board member for the Foundation 
Claude Pompidou. J.P. serves on the data safety committee for Biogen and 
Borhinger. L.S.H. receives research support from the NIH, Acumen, Alector, 
Biogen, Cognition, EIP, Eisai, Ferrer, Genentech, Janssen/J&J, Roche, 
Transposon, UCB and Vaccinex. He is a consultant for Biogen, Corium, Eisai, New 
Amsterdam and Roche. He has received honoraria from Medscape and serves on the 
data safety committee for Cortexyme and Eli Lilly. J.C. receives research 
support from the NIH and the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation. He is a 
consultant for MedaCorp. G.D. receives research support from NIH, Alzheimer’s 
Association, Chan Zuckerberg Association. He is a consultant for Parabon 
Nanolabs, Arialys Therapeutics and Ionis. He has received honoraria from 
PeerView Media, Eli Lilly, DynaMed and Continuing Medical Education, Inc. He 
served as an unpaid clinical director for Anti-NMDA Receptor Encephalitis 
Foundation. He reports owning stocks in ANI Pharmaceuticals and Parabon 
Nanolabs. N.C.F. is a consultant for Eisai, F. Hoffmann La Roche, Eli Lilly, 
Ionis, Biogen and Siemens. He has received honoraria from F. Hoffmann La Roche 
and serves on the Alzheimer’s Association Research Strategy Council. A.I.L. 
receives research support from the NIH. He reports royalties from Linus Health 
and Emtherapro. He is a consultant for MEPSGEN and Emtherapro. He serves on the 
data safety monitoring board for NextSense, Karuna and Cognito Therapeutics. He 
reports stock relationships with Emtherapro and NextSense. T.I. received 
research support from AMED JP23dk02027066. He is a consultant for Eli Lilly and 
Novo Nordisk. He received honoraria from Eisa, Fuji Rubio and Eli Lilly. J.L. 
receives research support from the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases. 
He is a consultant for Eisai and Biogen. He has received honoraria from Bayer 
Vital, Biogen, Eisai, Teva, Roche, Esteve and Zambon. He serves on the data 
safety committee for Axon Neuroscience and he is an unpaid board member for 
ERN-RND Management, ERN-RND Atypical Parkinson Disease Coordinator and the 
Deutsches Netzwerk Gedachtnisambulanzen. F.L. receives research support from the 
NIH, Banner Institute and Roche. He is a consultant for Biogen and 
Technoquimicas. He has received honoraria from Tecnofarma. P.R.N. is a 
consultant for Novodisk, Eli Lilly and Biogen. P.R.S. receives research support 
from the NIH, NHMRC, MRFF and Roth Charitable Foundation. He is a consultant for 
Outside Opinion Pty Ltd, Moira Clay Consulting Pty Ltd and Neuroscience Research 
Australia. He is the director of the Australian Dementia Network Ltd, 
Neuroscience Research Australia, Health Science Alliance, Schizophrenia Research 
Institute, StandingTall Pty Ltd and Australian Association of Medical Research 
Institutes. He is president of the Australasian Neuroscience Society. L.T. 
participates on the data safety monitoring board of Denali and has received 
research support from the NIH and Alzheimer’s Association. Y.L., S.L.M., A.M.S., 
C.S., L.I., D.W., S.B.B., C.L.M., S.J., J.K., C.R.J., A.D., R.A., B.G., E.D.H., 
M.J., J.H.L., J.H.R. and A.L.S. do not declare any competing interests. The 
funders of the study had no role in the collection, analysis or interpretation 
of the data, the writing of the report or in the decision to submit the paper 
for publication.


44. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Feb 5:2025.02.04.25321657. doi: 
10.1101/2025.02.04.25321657.

Epigenome-wide association study of cerebrospinal fluid-based biomarkers of 
Alzheimer's disease in cognitively normal individuals.

Hüls A(1)(2), Liu J(3), Konwar C(4)(5), Conneely KN(6), Levey AI(7)(8), Lah 
JJ(7)(8), Wingo AP(9)(3), Wingo TS(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA, 30322.
(2)Ganagarosa Department of Environmental Health, Rollins School of Public 
Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA, 30322.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA 
USA, 95816.
(4)Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics, The University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver BC V5Z 4H4, Canada.
(5)BC Children's Hospital Research Institute, Vancouver, BC Canada V5Z 4H4.
(6)Department of Human Genetics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA USA, 95816.
(7)Goizueta Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA USA, 30322.
(8)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 
USA, 30322.
(9)Division of Mental Health, Northern California VA, Sacramento, CA USA, 95816.
(10)Department of Neurology, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA 
USA, 95816.
(11)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of California, Davis, 
Sacramento, USA, 95816.

Update in
    Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70318. doi: 10.1002/alz.70318.

INTRODUCTION: Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
are reliable predictors of future AD risk. We investigated whether pre-clinical 
changes in AD CSF biomarkers are reflected in blood DNA methylation (DNAm) 
levels in cognitively normal participants.
METHODS: We profiled blood-based DNAm with the EPIC array in participants 
without a diagnosis of cognitive impairment in the Emory Healthy Brain Study 
(EHBS; N=495) and ADNI (N=122). Their CSF Aβ42, tTau, and pTau levels were 
quantified using Elecsys immunoassays. We conducted epigenome-wide association 
studies to assess associations between DNAm and CSF biomarkers of AD.
RESULTS: In EHBS, no loci were Bonferroni-significant after adjusting for 
confounding factors. In ADNI, two loci were significant, but they were not 
replicated in EHBS. There was little agreement between the top loci from EHBS 
and ADNI.
DISCUSSION: Our study showed little evidence of an association between 
differential blood-based DNAm and pre-clinical AD CSF biomarkers.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.02.04.25321657
PMCID: PMC11838696
PMID: 39974053

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare no 
competing interests. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting 
Information.


45. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Feb 2:2025.01.31.25321498. doi: 
10.1101/2025.01.31.25321498.

GWAS links APOE to neuropsychiatric symptoms in mild cognitive impairment and 
dementia.

Vattathil SM(1), Blostein F(2)(3), Miller-Fleming TW(2), Davis LK(2); 
Alzheimer’s Disease Genetics Consortium (ADGC), Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative; Wingo TS(1)(4), Wingo AP(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA.
(2)Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Nashville, TN.
(3)Vanderbilt Genomic Medicine Training Program, Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center, Nashville, TN.
(4)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of California, Davis, Davis 
CA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA.
(6)VA Northern California Health Care System, Davis, CA.

Update in
    Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70329. doi: 10.1002/alz.70329.

INTRODUCTION: Neuropsychiatric symptoms in dementia (NPS) collectively refer to 
behavioral and psychological symptoms affecting individuals with mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) or Alzheimer's disease or related dementia (ADRD). NPS are 
among the most troubling aspects of living with dementia and their treatments 
have limited efficacy. We aim to investigate genetic variants contributing to 
NPS to identify new therapeutic targets.
METHODS: We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for nine NPS 
domains measured by the NPI-Q in 12,800 participants of European ancestry with 
MCI or ADRD recruited by Alzheimer's disease research centers across the U.S.
RESULTS: We found genome-wide significant signals for agitation, anxiety, 
apathy, delusions, and hallucinations in the APOE locus that were driven by the 
APOE ε4 allele. We replicated these findings in two independent datasets. 
Mediation analyses revealed that MCI/ADRD severity only partially mediated the 
GWAS signals, except for apathy.
DISCUSSION: These findings suggest the APOE ε4 allele influences NPS 
independently of and beyond its effect on ADRD.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.01.31.25321498
PMCID: PMC11838693
PMID: 39974048

Conflict of interest statement: 9 Declaration of Interests None.


46. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Jan 20:2025.01.20.25320851. doi: 
10.1101/2025.01.20.25320851.

Evaluation of plasma p-tau217 for detecting amyloid pathology in a diverse and 
heterogeneous community-based cohort.

Rudolph MD(1), Sutphen CL(1), Register TC(1), Lockhart SN(1), Rundle MM(1), 
Hughes TM(1), Bateman JR(1), Solingapuram Sai KK(1), Whitlow CT(1), Craft S(1), 
Mielke MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 1 Medical Center Boulevard, 
Winston-Salem, NC 27157-1207, USA.

Update in
    Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jul;21(7):e70426. doi: 10.1002/alz.70426.

INTRODUCTION: Studies suggest excellent performance of plasma p-tau217 for 
detecting amyloid pathology, though studies in more diverse populations are 
needed to validate previously determined cutpoints.
METHODS: Plasma p-tau217 utility for detecting amyloid pathology (Aβ) via 
amyloid PET (n=598) and/or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF; n=154) was assessed in a 
heterogeneous, community-based cohort in the Wake Forest Alzheimer's Disease 
Research Center (WFADRC). Participants (n=598) were 21% Black; 313 cognitive 
unimpaired (CU), 214 mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 64 dementia (DEM); 49% 
prediabetic, 44% hypertensive; 29% overweight/obese; and 64% with 
mild-to-moderate kidney disease. Gaussian-mixture models, logistic regression, 
and receiver operating curve analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Plasma p-tau217 was associated with elevated Aβ deposition and 
accurately classified Aβ-positive participants (PET: AUC: 94%-97%, cutpoint≥.338 
pg/mL; CSF: AUC = .84, cutpoint≥.307 pg/mL).
DISCUSSION: Plasma p-tau217 is an accurate indicator of amyloid pathology in a 
heterogeneous cohort, and superior to other plasma biomarkers assessed. 
Longitudinal analyses assessing impact of comorbidities on p-tau217 utility for 
disease progression are underway.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.01.20.25320851
PMCID: PMC11838994
PMID: 39974029

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement Drs. Rudolph, 
Sutphen, Register, Rundle, Hughes, Solingapuram Sai, and Whitlow, have no 
conflicts of interest to disclose. Drs. Bateman and Lockhart receive funding 
from the Alzheimer’s Association. Dr. Bateman has also received honoraria from 
Efficient CME, PeerView CME, and Novo Nordisck in the last two years. Dr. Craft 
reports disclosures for vTv Therapeutics, T3D Therapeutics, Cyclerion Inc., and 
Cognito Inc. Dr. Mielke consults for or serves on advisory boards for Biogen, 
Eisai, Lilly, Merck, Roche, and Siemens Healthineers.


47. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 23:2025.01.23.25320706. doi: 
10.1101/2025.01.23.25320706.

The association of umbilical cord blood neurofilament light with non-reassuring 
fetal status: a prospective observational study.

Zalcberg D(1)(2), Kramer K(1)(2), Payne E(3), Payne T(1)(2)(4), Marathe S(2), 
Mahajan N(2), Liu A(2), Barry J(2), Duckworth A(2), Brookes M(2), de Vries 
B(5)(6), Gonzalez-Ortiz F(7)(8), Blennow K(7)(8)(9)(10), Zetterberg 
H(7)(8)(11)(12)(13)(14), Gordon A(1)(5), Moran B(15)(16)(17)(18), Manning H(19), 
Sanders RD(1)(2)(6)(20).

Author information:
(1)Central Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)Department of Anaesthetics, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney Local Health 
District, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)St George Hospital, South Eastern Sydney Local Health District, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(4)The Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(5)Sydney Institute for Women, Children and their Babies, Sydney Local Health 
District, New South Wales, Australia.
(6)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, The University of Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(9)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(10)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, P.R. China.
(11)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(12)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(13)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(14)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(15)Critical Care Program, The George Institute of Global Health, Sydney, 
Australia.
(16)Department of Intensive Care, Gosford Hospital, Gosford, Australia.
(17)Department of Anaesthesia and Pain Medicine, Gosford Hospital, Gosford, 
Australia.
(18)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, 
Australia.
(19)Dept of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Central coast local health district, 
NSW.
(20)Institute of Academic Surgery, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney Local 
Health District, New South Wales, Australia.

Update in
    Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2025 Aug 27. doi: 10.1002/ijgo.70421.

OBJECTIVE: Early detection of hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy (HIE) in neonates 
is critical. We conducted a pilot cohort study to determine the feasibility of 
collecting umbilical cord blood samples for neurofilament light (NfL) and to 
assess the association of NfL with non-reassuring fetal status and other cord 
biomarkers.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: A single, large tertiary and quaternary referral hospital.
PATIENTS: 108 maternal participants consenting to donate cord blood.
INTERVENTION: Umbilical cord venous blood plasma NfL levels.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: (1) Feasibility of cord NfL sample collection and 
analysis; (2) Association of NfL with non-reassuring fetal status (CTG changes 
and/or documented non-reassuring fetal status), NICU admission and length of 
stay; (3) Correlation of NfL with other cord biomarkers.
RESULTS: Cord NfL was higher in preterm neonates, and was correlated with cord 
lactate, pH, and base excess. After controlling for mode of delivery and 
gestational age, NfL (OR = 2.29, 95%CI: 1.15 to 5.57), but not pH (OR = 0.78, 
95%CI: 0.42 to 1.41), base excess (OR = 0.83, 95%CI: 0.37 to 1.86), or lactate 
(OR = 1.06, 95%CI: 0.51 to 2.12) was associated with non-reassuring fetal 
status. NfL levels were higher in neonates admitted to NICU (median (IQR): 11.3 
(7) versus 8.5 (5.1)).
CONCLUSIONS: Cord blood NfL analysis was feasible and provided correlates of 
adverse outcomes. Higher venous cord blood NfL levels were associated with 
non-reassuring fetal status. Further research is needed to validate these 
findings and establish the role of NfL, if any, in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.01.23.25320706
PMCID: PMC11838990
PMID: 39974024

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of interests KB has served as a 
consultant and at advisory boards for Acumen, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche 
Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees 
for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational 
materials and participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, 
Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper. HZ has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). The other authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


48. Indian J Pharmacol. 2024 Nov 1;56(6):396-404. doi: 10.4103/ijp.ijp_761_23.
Epub  2025 Feb 19.

Exploring the mechanism of sunflower seed oil against Alzheimer's disease 
through experimental and network pharmacology studies.

Desai Y(1), Karunakaran D, Singh J, Noronha AR, Poojary G, Chettri B, Shenoy R, 
Nampoothiri M, Bojja SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, India.

OBJECTIVES: With the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) increasing 
exponentially, there has been a shift in the focus of drug discovery for AD from 
treating the symptoms to preventing the development of the disease. Several 
natural compounds are extensively studied as neuroprotectives in preventing 
disease progression. Helianthus annuus seed oil (HA) is widely used as cooking 
oil and is abundant in antioxidant activity. Therefore, we evaluated the effect 
of HA in mice model of scopolamine-induced amnesia and explored the potential 
underlying mechanisms.
METHODS: Twenty-four male mice were administered orally with either distilled 
water (control and scopolamine groups) or treatment groups (HA 100 and HA 200 
mg/kg) for 8 consecutive days. All groups, except the control group, received an 
intraperitoneal injection of scopolamine at a dose of 1 mg/kg. Subsequently, 
novel object recognition task for cognition assessment and open field tests for 
locomotory activity were performed. In addition, network analysis was performed 
to identify the key bioactives and targets of HA against AD. Further, the 
binding affinity of HA bioactives to the key targets was verified by molecular 
docking analysis.
RESULTS: HA (100 mg/kg and 200 mg/kg) significantly ameliorated recognition 
memory compared to the scopolamine group, suggesting the protective effect of HA 
against cognitive impairment. Network analysis indicated that the key bioactives 
of HA, chlorogenic acid, and oleic acid act through multiple targets and 
pathways, particularly the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, to 
ameliorate AD symptoms. Importantly, chlorogenic acid showed good binding 
affinity with MAPKs, TP53, and EP300.
CONCLUSION: HA has therapeutic benefits in AD acting through the MAPK pathway. 
However, further studies need to be done to confirm the results derived and 
translate the potential use of HA as a dietary supplement for preventing AD.

Copyright © 2025 Indian Journal of Pharmacology.

DOI: 10.4103/ijp.ijp_761_23
PMCID: PMC11913338
PMID: 39973828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


49. J Xray Sci Technol. 2025 Jan;33(1):211-228. doi: 10.1177/08953996241300023.
Epub  2025 Jan 13.

DML-MFCM: A multimodal fine-grained classification model based on deep metric 
learning for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis.

Wang H(1), Yang T(2)(3)(4), Fan J(1), Zhang H(1), Zhang W(1), Ji M(1), Miao 
J(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Information Science and Engineering, Henan University of 
Technology, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)School of Artificial Intelligence and Big Data, Henan University of 
Technology, Zhengzhou, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Grain Information Processing and Control (HAUT), Ministry 
of Education, Zhengzhou, China.
(4)Henan Key Laboratory of Grain Photoelectric Detection and Control (HAUT), 
Zhengzhou, Henan, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder. There are 
no drugs and methods for the treatment of AD, but early intervention can delay 
the deterioration of the disease. Therefore, the early diagnosis of AD and mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) is significant. Structural magnetic resonance imaging 
(sMRI) is widely used to present structural changes in the subject's brain 
tissue. The relatively mild structural changes in the brain with MCI have led to 
ongoing challenges in the task of conversion prediction in MCI. Moreover, many 
multimodal AD diagnostic models proposed in recent years ignore the potential 
relationship between multimodal information.
OBJECTIVE: To solve these problems, we propose a multimodal fine-grained 
classification model based on deep metric learning for AD diagnosis (DML-MFCM), 
which can fully exploit the fine-grained feature information of sMRI and learn 
the potential relationships between multimodal feature information.
METHODS: First, we propose a fine-grained feature extraction module that can 
effectively capture the fine-grained feature information of the lesion area. 
Then, we introduce a multimodal cross-attention module to learn the potential 
relationships between multimodal data. In addition, we design a hybrid loss 
function based on deep metric learning. It can guide the model to learn the 
feature representation method between samples, which improves the model's 
performance in disease diagnosis.
RESULTS: We have extensively evaluated the proposed models on the ADNI and AIBL 
datasets. The ACC of AD vs. NC, MCI vs. NC, and sMCI vs. pMCI tasks in the ADNI 
dataset are 98.75%, 95.88%, and 88.00%, respectively. The ACC on the AD vs. NC 
and MCI vs. NC tasks in the AIBL dataset are 94.33% and 91.67%.
CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrate that our method has excellent performance 
in AD diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1177/08953996241300023
PMID: 39973767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


50. Discov Med. 2025 Feb;37(193):258-275. doi: 10.24976/Discov.Med.202537193.21.

Research Progress on Alzheimer's Disease Biomarkers Based on the ATX(N) 
Framework.

Cao H(1), Zhang W(1), Lin J(1), Yu E(2).

Author information:
(1)The Second School of Clinical Medicine, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
310053 Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, The Cancer Hospital of the University of Chinese 
Academy of Sciences (Zhejiang Cancer Hospital), 310022 Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 
China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Early 
diagnosis and treatment of AD are of paramount importance, with the concept of 
biomarkers being intrinsically linked to diagnosis and therapy. Biomarkers are 
indices that can be objectively measured to indicate normal biological 
processes, pathological conditions, or responses to therapeutic interventions. 
In 2023, the National Institute on Aging and Alzheimer's Association released 
updated clinical diagnostic guidelines, refining the 2018 research framework. 
These guidelines categorize AD biomarkers into three types: core AD biomarkers, 
non-specific biomarkers of tissue response related to AD pathophysiology, and 
biomarkers for non-AD comorbidities, thus enhancing the 
amyloid/tau/x/neurodegeneration (ATX(N)) framework. This article aimed to 
provide a comprehensive overview of the advancements within the ATX(N) framework 
and the progress in the study of various biomarkers under this framework. It 
analyzes how biomarkers can facilitate early disease diagnosis, discusses the 
challenges of translating biomarkers into effective treatments, and explores 
their therapeutic prospects.

DOI: 10.24976/Discov.Med.202537193.21
PMID: 39973550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Parkinsons Dis. 2025 Mar;15(2):361-373. doi: 10.1177/1877718X241310727.
Epub  2025 Jan 29.

Continuous, subcutaneous apomorphine infusion for Parkinson disease motor 
fluctuations: Results from the phase 3, long-term, open-label United States 
InfusON study.

Isaacson SH(1), Espay AJ(2), Pahwa R(3), Agarwal P(4), Shill HA(5), Hui J(6), 
Dashtipour K(7), Lew M(6), Qin P(8), Formella AE(8), Ceresoli-Borroni G(8), 
LeWitt PA(9)(10); InfusON Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Center of Boca Raton, Boca Raton, 
FL, USA.
(2)James J and Joan A Gardner Center for Parkinson's disease and Movement 
Disorders, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
KS, USA.
(4)Booth Gardner Parkinson's Center, Evergreen Health, Kirkland, WA, USA.
(5)Barrow Neurological Institute, University of Arizona, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Keck School of Medicine of USC, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Loma Linda University Health System, Schools of 
Medicine, Loma Linda, CA, USA.
(8)Department of Research & Development, Supernus Pharmaceuticals Inc., 
Rockville, MD, USA.
(9)Quest Research Institute, Farmington Hills, MI, USA.
(10)Sastry Foundation Endowed Chair in Parkinson's Disease Research, Wayne State 
University School of Medicine, Detroit, MI, USA.

BackgroundContinuous subcutaneous apomorphine infusion (CSAI) has been used 
globally since the 1980s for Parkinson disease (PD) motor fluctuations but has 
not been available in the United States (US).ObjectiveEvaluate CSAI for motor 
fluctuations in the US setting.MethodsThis open-label study (NCT02339064) 
enrolled patients with PD experiencing ≥3 hours (h) daily OFF time despite 
optimized levodopa and current/prior use of at least one other adjunctive 
therapy. CSAI was initiated with a 1-2 mg bolus followed by 1 mg/h infusion 
titrated to optimal efficacy and tolerability. Following titration, patients 
entered a 52-week maintenance period.ResultsOf 99 patients treated, 85 completed 
the titration period, 69 completed maintenance week 12 and 48 completed 
maintenance week 52. Common treatment-related adverse events included infusion 
site nodules and erythema, dyskinesia, nausea, and somnolence, each of which 
occurred more frequently during the titration period. Reduction in OFF time 
began at CSAI initiation and reached a mean of 3.0 ± 3.18 h/day by maintenance 
week 12 (primary efficacy endpoint), with a corresponding increase in Good ON 
time of 3.1 ± 3.35 h/day. By maintenance week 12, 68% of patients rated 
themselves as much or very much improved, 62% had at least a 2-h reduction in 
daily OFF time, and mean concomitant oral levodopa and levodopa equivalent doses 
(excluding CSAI) had been reduced by 198 mg/day and 283 mg/day, respectively. 
Improvements were maintained through week 52.ConclusionsThis study supports the 
clinical utility of CSAI to reduce OFF time and increase Good ON time in 
patients with motor fluctuations inadequately controlled with oral therapy.

Plain Language Summary: Continuous subcutaneous apomorphine infusion (also 
called CSAI) is a treatment to control OFF time (periods of poor motor control) 
that occurs despite ongoing use of usual Parkinson disease medications like 
levodopa. Apomorphine is slowly infused under the skin using a thin, flexible 
tube connected to a small, wearable infusion device. CSAI therapy has been 
widely used outside the United States for its effective control of Parkinson 
disease symptoms since the mid 1980s. In order to gain approval for CSAI use in 
the United States, a specific study conducted in United States clinics and 
hospitals was required. In this study, people with Parkinson disease 
experiencing 3 or more hours of OFF time per day were started on apomorphine 
infusion (CSAI) therapy. The dose of apomorphine was increased until each study 
participant experienced the best possible benefit while still tolerating the 
medication. Once this dose was identified, participants continued on this dose. 
The most common side effects were nodules (small bumps under the skin) and 
erythema (redness of the skin) at the infusion site, dyskinesia (involuntary 
movements), nausea, and somnolence (sleepiness). These side effects were more 
frequently experienced at the start of treatment when the best dose of CSAI for 
each participant was being identified and the participant's other PD medications 
were being adjusted. Soon after they started CSAI treatment, participants 
noticed a reduction in the amount of OFF time that they experienced each day. 
After 12 weeks at a stable dose of CSAI treatment, participants' OFF time had 
decreased by about 3 hours per day on average. At the same time, most (68%) 
participants said they felt their symptom control was “much improved“ or “very 
much improved” compared to before starting CSAI therapy. Importantly, these 
improvements were maintained throughout one year of treatment. These findings 
support the use of apomorphine infusion in the United States as an effective and 
safe treatment option for people with Parkinson disease that does not require 
surgery.

DOI: 10.1177/1877718X241310727
PMID: 39973510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Stuart H. Isaacson, 
Peter LeWitt, Alberto J. Espay, Rajesh Pahwa, Pinky Agarwal, Holly A. Shill, 
Jennifer Hui, and Khashayar Dashtipour were investigators in the InfusON study 
and report fees for consultancy from Supernus Pharmaceuticals Inc and US 
WorldMeds, LLC. Gianpiera Ceresoli-Borroni, Andrea Formella, and Peibing Qin, 
are employed by Supernus Pharmaceuticals Inc. In addition, Dr Isaacson reports 
honoraria for CME, consultant, research grants, and/or promotional speaker on 
behalf of: Abbvie, Acadia, Acorda, Addex, Affiris, Alexza, Allevion, Amneal, 
Annovis, Aptinyx, Athira, Bial, Biogen, BlueRock, Britannia, Bukwang, Cala, 
Cerecor, Cerevel, CND, Eli Lilly, Enterin, Esteve, Fasikl, GE Healthcare, Global 
Kinetics, Inhibikase, Intra-Cellular Therapies, Ipsen, Jazz, Kyowa Kirin, 
Lundbeck, Medscape, Merz, Michael J. Fox Foundation, Mitsubishi Tanabe, 
Neuralys, Neurocrine, NeuroDerm, Neurolive, Exeltis, Novartis, ONO 
Pharmaceutical, Parkinson Study Group, Pharma2B, Praxis, Revance, Roche, Sage, 
Sanofi, Scion, Stoparkinson, Sunovion, Sun Pharma, Supernus, Teva, Theravance, 
Transposon, and UCB. Dr Espay has received grant support from the NIH and the 
Michael J Fox Foundation; personal compensation as a consultant/scientific 
advisory board member for NeuroDerm, Amneal, Acadia, Avion Pharmaceuticals, 
Acorda, Kyowa Kirin, Supernus (formerly, US WorldMeds), NeuroDiagnostics, Inc 
(SYNAPS Dx), and Herantis Pharma; and publishing royalties from Lippincott 
Williams & Wilkins, Cambridge University Press, and Springer. He cofounded 
REGAIN Therapeutics and is co-inventor of the patent “Compositions and methods 
for treatment and/or prophylaxis of proteinopathies.” He serves on the editorial 
boards of the Journal of Parkinson's Disease, Journal of Alzheimer's Disease, 
European Journal of Neurology, Movement Disorders Clinical Practice, and JAMA 
Neurology. Dr Pahwa serves as a consultant for Abbott, AbbVie, ACADIA, Acorda, 
Allevion, Amneal, Appello, Biogen, BioVie, CalaHealth, Convatec, Fasikl, 
Genetech, Insightec, Jazz, Keiferx, Kyowa, Lundbeck, Merz, Mitsubishi Tanabe, 
Neurocrine, Ono, PhotoPharmics, PSG, Reagenxbio, Sage, Sun Biopharma, Supernus, 
UCB. He receives research support from Abbott, AbbVie, Alexza, Amylyx, Annovis, 
ASK Bio, Attune, Biogen, Bluerock, Bukwang, Cerevance, Cerevel, EIP, Fasikl, 
GemVax, Global Kinetics, Inhibikase, Intra-cellular Therapies (ITI), Jazz, 
Michael J Fox Foundation, Neurocrine, NeuroDerm, ONO, Parkinson's Foundation, 
Praxis, Roche, Sage, Scion, Sun Pharma, Teva, Theravance, UCB. Dr Agarwal has 
received compensation to serve as consultant and speaker for Acadia, Acorda, 
Adamas, Amneal, US WorldMeds and reports research grants from the Michael J Fox 
Foundation, Merck, Astellas, Parkinson Study Group, CHDI Foundation, US 
WorldMeds, Lilly USA, Biogen Idec, Acadia Pharmaceuticals, Genentech (Roche), 
Prilenia Therapeutics, Sun Pharma Advanced Research Company Limited (SPARC) and 
Centogene AG. Dr Shill reports consultancy for Biogen, Acadia, Mitsubishi Tanabe 
Pharma America, Inc; honoraria for advisory boards from Kyowa Kirin Inc, Jazz 
Pharmaceuticals and research funding from Barrow Neurological Foundation, Impax 
Laboratories LLC, US World Meds, NIH, Parkinson Study Group/Biogen, Sunovion, 
Intec Pharma, Cala Health. Dr Hui reports consultancy for Sunovion. She has 
research grants from US WorldMeds, Sunovion, and Roche. Dr Dashtipour has 
received compensation to serve as an advisor and speaker from Allergan, Acadia, 
Abbvie, Acorda, Amneal, Ipsen, Lundbeck, Neurocrine, Teva and US WorldMeds.Dr 
Lew reports consultancy for Acorda, Supernus, Neurocrine, Kyowa, Amneal, UCB, 
and Global Kinetics. He has research grants from the Parkinson's Study Group, 
Michael J. Fox Foundation, Anenberg foundation, UCB, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, 
Neuraly, NIAA, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inhibikase Therapeutics, Biogen, Ono 
Pharma. Dr LeWitt has received compensation from consulting or lectures from 
Abide, Amneal, Biogen, Bukwang, Cavion, Denali, Hoffmann-La Roche, Jazz 
Pharmaceuticals, Kyowa, Mitsubishi NeuroDerm Ltd, Neurocrine, ONO Pharma USA, 
Revance, US WorldMeds, and Voyager Therapeutics; research grant support from 
Acorda Therapeutics, Biotie Therapies, Lundbeck, Merz, Michael J Fox Foundation 
for Parkinson's Research, Parkinson Study Group, Pharma 2B, Revance, Roche, 
Sunovion, Sun Pharma, and Supernus. Peter LeWitt and Alberto Espay are Editorial 
Board Members of this journal but were not involved in the peer-review process 
of this article nor had access to any information regarding its peer-review.


52. J Parkinsons Dis. 2025 Mar;15(2):282-290. doi: 10.1177/1877718X241308487.
Epub  2025 Jan 14.

A possible pathway to freezing of gait in Parkinson's disease.

Factor SA(1), Weinshenker D(2), McKay JL(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Jean and Paul Amos Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorder Program, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Tech and 
Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Freezing of gait (FOG), a common, perplexing gait disorder observed in 
Parkinson's disease (PD), is a leading cause of injurious falls and contributes 
significantly to social isolation. Unlike other PD cardinal features, FOG 
appears to develop independently, and its heterogeneity presents challenges for 
both definition and measurement. The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying 
FOG remain poorly understood, limiting the development of effective treatments. 
Although the roles of specific, targetable biomarkers in FOG development remain 
unidentified, evidence suggests that it is likely multimodal, potentially 
involving extranigral transmitter circuits. The diversity of FOG phenotypes may 
also reflect underlying differences in pathophysiology. In this paper, we first 
present evidence that FOG may occur independently of dopaminergic influence. We 
then review an expanding body of research supporting the hypothesis that FOG 
arises from a dysfunctional pathophysiological feedback loop, involving 
norepinephrine (NE) depletion, neuroinflammation, and amyloid-β (Aβ) 
accumulation. This biological disruption occurs concurrently with, but distinct 
from, the primary dopaminergic pathology of PD. When they occur on the 
background of dopamine loss, the interactions between NE, Aβ, and inflammation, 
as observed in Alzheimer's disease models, may similarly play a critical role in 
the development of FOG in PD and could serve as pathobiological markers. The 
proposed changes in the pathophysiological loop might even precede its onset, 
highlighting the need for further investigation. A deeper understanding of the 
involvement of Aβ, NE, and inflammatory markers in FOG could pave the way for 
rapid clinical trials to test existing amyloid-clearing therapies and 
noradrenergic drugs in appropriate patient populations.

Plain Language Summary: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurological 
disease associated with the loss of dopamine in the brain. Freezing of gait 
(FOG) is a complex abnormality of walking seen in people with PD where they feel 
like their feet are glued to the floor. It is common (affecting up to 60% of 
patients), a leading cause of injurious falls and contributes significantly to 
social isolation. It appears to develop and progress separately from other 
clinical symptoms of PD. Cognitive impairment is frequently associated with FOG. 
The cause is unknown, and treatment is limited. It is well known that there are 
several types of FOG suggesting that there might be more than one cause. There 
is also information suggesting that FOG, in some cases, may occur independent of 
the loss of dopamine that typically occurs in PD. In this paper we review 
information supporting that notion. Then, we develop our hypothesis of a 
different chemical pathway as a possible cause of FOG. This pathway involves the 
protein amyloid (too much in the brain) and the chemical norepinephrine (too 
little in the brain), both have been previously related to the development of 
Alzheimer's disease. We review the literature (including some of our work) that 
supports the possible role of this chemical pathway in the development of FOG. A 
deeper understanding of this chemical pathway in FOG could pave the way for the 
development of new effective drugs in appropriate patient populations.

DOI: 10.1177/1877718X241308487
PMID: 39973500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article. However, they have the following 
disclosures:Factor: Honoraria: Biogen, Takeda, Neurocrine. Grants: Medtronics, 
Boston Scientific, Sun Pharmaceuticals Advanced Research Company, Aspen, 
Biohaven, Neurocrine, Voyager, Prilenia Therapeutics, CHDI Foundation, Michael 
J. Fox Foundation, NIH 1 P50 NS123103-01, NIH 1R01NS125294-01, Parkinson 
Foundation. Royalties: Demos, Blackwell Futura, Springer for textbooks, 
Uptodate. Other CronosWeinshenker: Consultant CuraSen Therapeutics.McKay: None


53. J Parkinsons Dis. 2025 Feb;15(1):19-40. doi: 10.1177/1877718X241301065. Epub 
2025 Jan 14.

Technology for measuring freezing of gait: Current state of the art and 
recommendations.

Mancini M(1), McKay JL(2), Cockx H(3)(4), D'Cruz N(5), Esper CD(2), Filtjens 
B(6)(7), Heimler B(8), MacKinnon CD(9), Palmerini L(10), Roerdink M(11), Young 
WR(12), Hausdorff JM(13)(14)(15)(16); ICFOG Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, 
USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, Faculty of Science, Donders Institute for Brain, 
Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(4)Department of Neurology, Center of Expertise for Parkinson and Movement 
Disorders, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud 
University Medical Center, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(5)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(6)Department of Electrical Engineering (ESAT), eMedia Research Lab/STADIUS, KU 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(7)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Intelligent Mobile Platforms Research 
Group, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(8)Center of Advanced Technologies in Rehabilitation, Sheba Medical Center, 
Ramat Gan, Israel.
(9)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(10)Department of Electrical, Electronic and Information Engineering «Guglielmo 
Marconi», University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(11)Department of Human Movement Sciences, Faculty of Behavioural and Movement 
Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam Movement Sciences, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(12)School of Sport and Health Sciences, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(13)Center for the Study of Movement, Cognition and Mobility, Neurological 
Institute, Tel Aviv Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(14)Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(15)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Medical & Health Sciences, Tel 
Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(16)Department of Orthopedic Surgery and Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.

This report summarizes the existing literature on the use of technology for the 
assessment of freezing of gait (FOG) as well as the use of technology to provide 
insights into the mechanisms of FOG in people with Parkinson's disease. 
Specifically, this work was carried out for the 3rd International Workshop on 
Freezing of Gait in Jerusalem in 2023. This review focuses on the most used 
technologies to quantitatively assess FOG in a laboratory environment and 
describes the technologies that hold promise for assessing FOG in daily life. 
Examples of implementation of machine learning algorithms are provided as well 
as algorithmic biases. Lastly, a standardized assessment using inertial 
measurement units during a clinical protocol is proposed and a 5-year outlook is 
discussed. We anticipate this review will help move the field forward in the 
coming years.

DOI: 10.1177/1877718X241301065
PMID: 39973491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


54. J Parkinsons Dis. 2025 Aug;15(5):944-952. doi: 10.1177/1877718X241313443.
Epub  2025 Feb 4.

Biological definitions of synucleinopathies should be anchored in clinical 
trajectories and encompass the complex biology of the disease.

Bendetowicz D(1)(2), Planche V(1)(3), Bezard E(1), Dehay B(1), Meissner 
WG(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Univ. Bordeaux, CNRS, IMN, UMR5293, Bordeaux, France.
(2)CHU Bordeaux, Service de Neurologie des Maladies Neurodégénératives, IMNc, 
Centre Expert Parkinson, NS-Park/FCRIN Network, Bordeaux, France.
(3)CHU de Bordeaux, Service de Neurologie des Maladies Neurodégénératives, IMNc, 
Centre Mémoire de Ressources et de Recherche, Bordeaux, France.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Otago and New Zealand Brain Research 
Institute, Christchurch, New Zealand.

Recently, two proposals for defining Parkinson's disease and its related 
pathogenic processes have been published. In this viewpoint, we discuss the 
primary drivers behind these efforts, the future directions, and the challenges 
that must be addressed. While finding biomarkers is a mandatory step for better 
precision medicine and optimal patient stratification in therapeutic trials, we 
argue that a biological definition of Parkinson's disease based on a single 
biomarker will struggle to account for the complexity of the mechanisms involved 
in developing the disease. Additionally, a biological definition of asymptomatic 
patients should rely on a thorough understanding of patients' clinical 
trajectories, which is currently not the case in synucleinopathies.

Plain Language Summary: Two recent articles proposed a biological definition of 
Parkinson's disease, highlighting the importance of detecting aggregated 
alpha-synuclein in biofluids or tissues. This viewpoint explores the motivations 
behind these proposals, their potential implications, and the challenges they 
face. It emphasizes that relying on a single biomarker to define Parkinson's 
disease is unlikely to capture its complexity. The authors advocate for 
combining clinical and biological insights. They also discuss parallels with 
Alzheimer's disease and how similar approaches influenced its diagnosis and 
therapeutic development.

DOI: 10.1177/1877718X241313443
PMID: 39973487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: During the past 3 
years, DB was a local unpaid sub-investigator for clinical trials granted by UCB 
Biopharma, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Hoffmann-La Roche and Theravance Biopharma. 
During the past 3 years, VP was a local unpaid investigator or sub-investigator 
for clinical trials granted by Novo Nordisk, Biogen, TauRx Pharmaceuticals, 
Janssen, Green Valley Pharmaceuticals and Alector. EB is a director and 
shareholder of Motac Neuroscience Ltd EB is a shareholder of Treefrog 
Therapeutics and SE Therapeutics. Outside the present work (past 12 months), WGM 
has received consultancy fees from Lundbeck, Inhibikase, Takeda and Koneksa. BD 
declared no conflict of interest.


55. J Parkinsons Dis. 2025 Feb;15(1):189-201. doi: 10.1177/1877718X241297715.
Epub  2024 Dec 8.

New insights from a Malaysian real-world deep brain stimulation cohort.

Dy Closas AMF(1)(2), Tan AH(1)(2), Tay YW(3), Hor JW(2), Toh TS(2), Lim JL(3), 
Lew CY(2), Cham CY(4), Yim CCW(5), Chee KY(6), Ng CG(7), Lit LC(8), Anuar 
ANK(8), Lange LM(9), Fang ZH(10), Ciga SB(11), Lohmann K(9), Klein C(9), 
Ahmad-Annuar A(3), Muthusamy KA(4), Lim SY(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)The Mah Pooi Soo & Tan Chin Nam Centre for Parkinson's & Related Disorders, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Biomedical Science, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(5)Department of Anaesthesiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Mental Health, Hospital Kuala Lumpur, Ministry 
of Health, Malaysia.
(7)Department of Psychological Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(8)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(9)Institute of Neurogenetics and Department of Neurology, University of Luebeck 
and University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Luebeck, Germany.
(10)Deutsches Zentrum für Neurodegenerative Erkrankungen (DZNE), Tübingen, 
Germany.
(11)Center for Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias (CARD), National 
Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

BackgroundThe availability of deep brain stimulation (DBS), a highly efficacious 
treatment for several movement disorders, remains low in developing countries, 
with scarce data available on utilization and outcomes.ObjectiveWe characterized 
the DBS cohort and outcomes at a Malaysian quaternary medical center.MethodsA 
retrospective chart review was done on DBS-related surgery at the University of 
Malaya, including clinico-demographic, genetics, and outcomes data focusing on 
post-operative medication reduction and complications.Results149 Parkinson's 
disease (PD) patients underwent DBS targeting the subthalamic nucleus. Six had 
globus pallidus internus DBS (primarily for dystonia). Only 16.1% of patients 
were government-funded. Of the 133 PD patients operated in the past decade 
(2013-2022), 25 (18.8%) had disease duration <5 years. At 6-12 months post-DBS, 
median levodopa-equivalent daily dose (LEDD) reduction was 440.5 [418.9] mg/day, 
corresponding to a reduction of ≥50% and ≥30% in 42.2% and 69.8% of patients, 
respectively. LEDD reductions were larger in the early-onset and short-duration 
subgroups. Three patients (1.9% of 155) had symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, 
resulting in stroke in two. Pathogenic monogenic or GBA1 variants were detected 
in 12/76 (16%) of patients tested, mostly comprising the "severe" GBA1 variant 
p.L483P (12%).ConclusionsThis is the largest report on DBS from Southeast Asia. 
The procedures were effective, and complication rates on par with international 
norms. Our study found a high frequency of GBA1-PD; and included a substantial 
number of patients with short-duration PD, who had good outcomes. It also 
highlights regional inequities in access to device-aided therapy.

Plain Language Summary: Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a highly effective 
treatment for several movement disorders, including Parkinson's disease (PD). 
However, there is very limited published information about DBS in developing 
countries, and on “real-life” outcomes when DBS is performed earlier in the 
course of PD. Here, we describe a relatively large cohort of patients who 
underwent DBS at a major hospital in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. DBS was effective 
with low complication rates, and at 6–12 months after surgery, the PD medication 
dosage was reduced by at least one-half in 4 out of 10 patients and by at least 
one-third in 7 out of 10 patients. Patients with PD who underwent DBS early in 
their disease course (within 5 years from diagnosis, comprising one-fifth of the 
patients), and those diagnosed at age 50 years or younger (comprising one-half 
of the patients), appeared to have larger reductions in their PD medications. A 
significant proportion of patients with PD (16%) who had genetic testing done 
were found to harbor monogenic (causative) gene variants or GBA1 risk gene 
variants, which have been associated with worse disease progression, and these 
patients had lesser medication reduction compared to GBA1 variant-negative 
patients. Less than two out of 10 patients (16%) had their DBS funded via the 
public health system. To our knowledge, this is the largest report on DBS from 
Southeast Asia and documents good outcomes overall, including in PD patients 
operated on early in their disease course, but highlights limited government 
funding for this potentially life-changing therapy as a significant barrier in 
developing countries.

DOI: 10.1177/1877718X241297715
PMID: 39973484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.SYL receives grants from the 
Michael J. Fox Foundation (MJFF) and the Ministry of Education Malaysia 
Fundamental Research Grant Scheme. He serves on the Editorial Board for 
Neurotorium. He has received honoraria for talks sponsored by Eisai, Lundbeck, 
Medtronic, and the International Parkinson & Movement Disorder Society (MDS). 
AHT receives grants from the MJFF, Ministry of Education Malaysia Fundamental 
Research Grant Scheme, and Toray Science Foundation Science & Technology Grant. 
She has received honoraria for talks sponsored by Sanofi, and the MDS. AMFDC has 
received travel grant from MDS. JWH has received research grant from Malaysia - 
TORAY Science Foundation (Science & Technology Research Grant). LCL receives 
grants from the MJFF. ZHF has a contract with MJFF for Parkinson's Research. LML 
has received fellowship grant from the Bachmann-Strauss Dystonia and Parkinson's 
Foundation. KL receives grants from German Research Foundation (DFG). CK has 
received honoraria from Bial and Desitin, and receives royalties from Oxford 
University Press and grants from DFG, MJFF, Federal Ministry for Education and 
Research (BMBF) – Federal Republic of Germany. She serves on the advisory board 
of Retromer Therapeutics and does consultancy for Centogene. AAA has received 
honoraria from Global Parkinson's Genetics Program for travel, and research 
grants from Malaysian Ministry of Education Fundamental Research Grant Scheme 
and University of Malaya Specialist Centre Research Grant. KAM has received 
honoraria from Medtronic for proctorship and lectures.


56. Brain Behav. 2025 Feb;15(2):e70361. doi: 10.1002/brb3.70361.

Dapagliflozin Improves High-Fat Diet-Induced Cognitive Impairment in Female 
Mice.

Chen X(1), Fan M(2), Xiao Z(3), Xiong X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.
(2)Center for Animal Experiment, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.
(3)Reproductive Medical Center, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.

BACKGROUND: High fat consumption is a known risk factor for the development of 
type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Sodium-glucose 
cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2is) have been found to possess 
anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties. However, the cognitive effects 
and mechanisms of SGLT2is on female mice fed with a high-fat diet remain 
unknown.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the impacts of dapagliflozin on 
metabolism, cognition, neuroinflammation, insulin resistance, and microglial 
activation in female mice fed a HFD.
METHODS: Dapagliflozin (1 mg/kg) was administered to HFD-fed mice for 24 weeks. 
Body weight, glucose tolerance, and insulin resistance were assessed. 
Additionally, all mice were subjected to the Morris water maze (MWM) and 
one-trial Y-maze tests. The levels of metabolic hormones and cytokines were 
analyzed using ELISA kits. The levels of phosphorylated tau (p-tau) protein in 
the hippocampus were measured. Microglia, insulin receptors, NLRP3, and IL-1β in 
the hippocampus of mice were evaluated by immunofluorescence or 
immunohistochemical staining.
RESULTS: As anticipated, dapagliflozin improved insulin resistance and glucose 
metabolism and reduced cognitive impairment in female mice fed with a HFD. In 
the hippocampus, dapagliflozin alleviated microglial activation yet did not 
reduce the secretion of inflammatory chemokines. Furthermore, it increased the 
expression of insulin receptor in the hippocampus of HFD-fed mice and decreased 
the expression of p-tau.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide a foundation for the clinical application of 
SGLT2is as an adjuvant to slow down the progression of central degenerative 
diseases related to metabolic disorders, such as AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.70361
PMCID: PMC11839776
PMID: 39972998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


57. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Feb 19;17(1):49. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01680-3.

γ-Secretase modulator resistance of an aggressive Alzheimer-causing presenilin 
mutant can be overcome in the heterozygous patient state by a set of advanced 
compounds.

Trambauer J(1)(2), Sarmiento RMR(3), Garringer HJ(4), Salbaum K(5), Pedro 
LD(2)(5), Crusius D(5), Vidal R(4), Ghetti B(4), Paquet D(5)(6), Baumann K(7), 
Lindemann L(7), Steiner H(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Metabolic Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Biomedical Center 
(BMC), LMU Munich, Feodor-Lynen-Str. 17, Munich, 81377, Germany.
(2)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, 81377, Germany.
(3)Pharma Research and Early Development, F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG, Therapeutic 
Modalities, Small Molecule Research, Roche Innovation Center Basel, Basel, 4070, 
Switzerland.
(4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, 46202, USA.
(5)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research, University Hospital, LMU Munich, 
Munich, 81377, Germany.
(6)Munich Cluster of Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, 81377, Germany.
(7)Pharma Research and Early Development, F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG, Neuroscience 
and Rare Diseases Translational Area, Neuroscience Discovery, Roche Innovation 
Center Basel, Basel, 4070, Switzerland.
(8)Division of Metabolic Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Biomedical Center 
(BMC), LMU Munich, Feodor-Lynen-Str. 17, Munich, 81377, Germany. 
harald.steiner@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(9)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, 81377, Germany. 
harald.steiner@med.uni-muenchen.de.

Erratum in
    Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Apr 15;17(1):83. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01723-9.

BACKGROUND: Amyloid-β peptide (Aβ) species of 42 or 43 amino acids in length 
(Aβ42/43) trigger Alzheimer´s disease (AD) and are produced in abnormal amounts 
by mutants of the γ-secretase subunit presenilin-1 (PS1), which represent the 
primary cause of familial AD (FAD). Lowering these peptides by γ-secretase 
modulators (GSMs) is increasingly considered a safe strategy to treat AD since 
these compounds do not affect the overall cleavage of γ-secretase substrates. 
GSMs were shown to modulate not only wild-type (WT) γ-secretase but also FAD 
mutants, expanding their potential use also to the familial form of the disease. 
Unlike most other FAD mutants, the very aggressive PS1 L166P mutant is largely 
resistant to GSMs. However, these data were mostly obtained from overexpression 
models, which mimic more the less relevant homozygous state rather than the 
heterozygous patient situation.
METHODS: Mouse embryonic fibroblast and induced pluripotent stem cell-derived 
neuronal PS1 L166P knock-in (KI) cell models were treated with various GSMs and 
Aβ responses were assessed by immunoassays and/or gel-based analysis.
RESULTS: We identified GSMs that lower Aβ42 and/or Aβ43 when PS1 L166P is 
heterozygous, as it is the case in affected patients, and could reduce the 
amount of pathogenic Aβ species towards WT levels. RO7019009 was the most potent 
of these compounds, reducing both pathogenic species and concomitantly 
increasing the short Aβ37 and Aβ38, of which the latter has been associated with 
delayed AD progression. Another effective compound, the structurally novel 
indole-type GSM RO5254601 specifically acts on the Aβ42 product line leading to 
a selective increase of the beneficial Aβ38. Interestingly, we further found 
that this class of GSMs can bind not only one, but both presenilin fragments 
suggesting that it targets γ-secretase at an unusual binding site.
CONCLUSION: Our data show that even highly refractory presenilin FAD mutants are 
in principle tractable with GSMs extending the possibilities for potential 
clinical studies in FAD with suitable GSM molecules.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01680-3
PMCID: PMC11837686
PMID: 39972463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All experiments were performed in accordance with all relevant 
guidelines and regulations. Female iPSC line A18944 was purchased from 
ThermoFisher (A18945). No human subjects were involved in this study; 
confirmation of consent was not necessary. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: H.S. has received research funding from Roche. 
D.P. is a scientific advisor of ISAR Bioscience. R.M.R.S., K.B., and L.L. are 
full-time employees of F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG, are inventors of patents in the 
name of F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG, and might own stocks / stock options of F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche AG. All other authors declare that they have no conflict of 
interest.


58. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2025 Feb 20;13(1):37. doi:
10.1186/s40478-025-01954-9.

Distinctive autophagy/mitophagy biomarker profiles in frontotemporal lobar 
degeneration and Alzheimer's disease.

Veverová K(#)(1), Katonová A(#)(1), Horáková H(1), Laczó J(1), Angelucci F(1), 
Hort J(1), Lautrup S(2)(3), Fang EF(4)(5), Vyhnálek M(6).

Author information:
(1)Memory Clinic, Department of Neurology, 2nd Faculty of Medicine, Charles 
University and Motol University Hospital, V Úvalu 84, Prague 5, 150 06, Czech 
Republic.
(2)Department of Clinical Molecular Biology, University of Oslo and Akershus 
University Hospital, Lørenskog, 1478, Norway.
(3)The Norwegian Centre on Healthy Ageing (NO-Age), Oslo, Norway.
(4)Department of Clinical Molecular Biology, University of Oslo and Akershus 
University Hospital, Lørenskog, 1478, Norway. e.f.fang@medisin.uio.no.
(5)The Norwegian Centre on Healthy Ageing (NO-Age), Oslo, Norway. 
e.f.fang@medisin.uio.no.
(6)Memory Clinic, Department of Neurology, 2nd Faculty of Medicine, Charles 
University and Motol University Hospital, V Úvalu 84, Prague 5, 150 06, Czech 
Republic. martin.vyhnalek@lfmotol.cuni.cz.
(#)Contributed equally

Maintaining cellular homeostasis by removing damaged and senescent mitochondria, 
a process termed mitophagy, is crucial in preventing Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
and represents a promising therapeutic target. Our previous research revealed 
altered mitophagy biomarkers, such as increased CSF and serum PINK1 and serum 
BNIP3L and decreased serum TFEB levels, indicating impaired autophagy-lysosomal 
degradation in the AD continuum. However, the role of autophagy/mitophagy in 
frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) remains unclear. This study 
investigated the biomarkers of autophagy/mitophagy and lysosomal biogenesis 
(PINK1, ULK1, BNIP3L, and TFEB) in biofluids (CSF and serum) from 308 
biomarker-defined individuals across the FTLD continuum (FTLD-dementia, n = 29; 
FTLD-MCI, n = 33) and compared them with those across the AD continuum (MCI-AD, 
n = 100; AD-dementia, n = 100) and cognitively unimpaired (CU) controls (n = 46) 
recruited from Czech Brain Aging Study. Additionally, we compared the mitophagy 
biomarkers across different FTLD clinical subtypes (frontal, semantic and 
nonfluent variant) with CU, and explored the association between mitophagy 
biomarkers and clinical phenotypes of FTLD (biomarkers of tau, biomarkers of 
neurodegeneration, cognition and ATN profile).Our findings indicated a 
significantly lower CSF PINK1 and ULK1 levels in FTLD compared to AD, with FTLD 
dementia showing particularly low CSF PINK1 levels compared to AD-dementia. 
Conversely, CSF ULK1 levels were higher in FTLD-MCI compared to AD-dementia. 
Serum analyses revealed lower PINK1 and higher TFEB levels in FTLD dementia 
compared to AD dementia. This study provides compelling evidence of distinct 
alterations in autophagy/mitophagy biomarkers between FTLD and AD, indicating 
that these neurodegenerative diseases may affect the cellular waste disposal 
system through different pathways. This is the first study to explore mitophagy 
biomarkers in human CSF and serum in FTLD, opening avenues for further research 
and potential clinical applications.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-025-01954-9
PMCID: PMC11841012
PMID: 39972393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All study participants signed an informed consent form approved by 
the Motol University Hospital ethics committee (number EK218/20). Consent for 
publication: All authors have approved the manuscript and agree with its 
submission. Competing interests: E.F.F. has an MTA with LMITO Therapeutics Inc 
(South Korea), a CRADA arrangement with ChromaDex (USA), and a commercialization 
agreement with Molecule AG/VITADAO, and is a consultant to Aladdin Healthcare 
Technologies (UK and Germany), the Vancouver Dementia Prevention Centre 
(Canada), Intellectual Labs (Norway), MindRank AI (China), and NYO3 (China). 
J.H. is a medical advisor at Neurona lab, Terrapino mobile app, consulted for 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, Biogen, Schwabe, holds stock options in Alzheon. K.V., J.L., 
A.K., H.H., V.M., F.A., M.L., Z.N., H.-L.W., J.Z., L.S., and M.V. have nothing 
to disclose.


59. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Feb 19;17(1):47. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01695-w.

Cornuside alleviates cognitive impairments induced by Aβ(1-42) through 
attenuating NLRP3-mediated neurotoxicity by promoting mitophagy.

Zhou F(#)(1), Lian W(#)(1), Yuan X(2), Wang Z(2), Xia C(1), Yan Y(1), Wang W(1), 
Tong Z(2), Cheng Y(3), Xu J(4), He J(5), Zhang W(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences, Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan, 
Friendship Hospital 2nd, Yinghua Dongjie, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100029, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Life Science, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, No. 11, Bei 
San Huan Dong Lu, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100029, People's Republic of 
China.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Yale University, Connecticut, 
New Haven, USA.
(4)School of Life Science, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, No. 11, Bei 
San Huan Dong Lu, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100029, People's Republic of 
China. xjkbucm@163.com.
(5)Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences, Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan, 
Friendship Hospital 2nd, Yinghua Dongjie, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100029, 
People's Republic of China. 15010297582@126.com.
(6)Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences, Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan, 
Friendship Hospital 2nd, Yinghua Dongjie, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100029, 
People's Republic of China. cpuzwk@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Mar 19;17(1):63. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01715-9.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder in which 
mitochondrial dysfunction and neuroinflammation play crucial roles in its 
progression. Our previous studies found that cornuside from Cornus officinalis 
Sieb.Et Zucc is an anti-AD candidate, however, its underlying mechanism remains 
unknown. In the present study, AD mice were established by 
intracerebroventricular injection of Aβ1-42 and treated with cornuside (3, 10, 
30 mg/kg) for 2 weeks. Cornuside significantly ameliorated behavioral deficits, 
protected synaptic plasticity and relieved neuronal damage in Aβ1-42 induced 
mice. Importantly, cornuside decreased NLRP3 inflammasome activation, 
characterized by decreased levels of NLRP3, ASC, Caspase-1, GSDMD, and IL-1β. 
Furthermore, cornuside promoted mitophagy accompanied by decreasing SQSTM1/p62 
and promoting LC3B-I transforming into LC3B-II, via Pink1/Parkin signaling 
instead of FUNDC1 or BNIP3 pathways. In order to investigate the relationship 
between NLRP3 inflammasome and mitophagy in the neuroprotective mechanism of 
cornuside, we established an in-vitro model in BV2 cells exposed to LPS and 
Aβ1-42. And cornuside inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome activation and subsequent 
cytokine release, also protected neurons from damaging factors in 
microenvironment of conditional culture. Cornuside improved mitochondrial 
function by promoting oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis, decreasing the 
production of ROS and mitochondrial membrane potential depolarization. Besides, 
mitophagy was also facilitated with increased colocalization of MitoTracker with 
LC3B and Parkin, and Pink1/Parkin, FUNDC1 and BNIP3 pathways were all involved 
in the mechanism of cornuside. By blocking the formation of autophagosomes by 
3-MA, the protective effects on mitochondria, the inhibition on NLRP3 
inflammasome as well as neuronal protection in conditional culture were 
eliminated. There is reason to believe that the promotion of mitophagy plays a 
key role in the NLRP3 inhibition of cornuside. In conclusion, cornuside 
re-establishes the mitophagy flux which eliminates damaged mitochondria and 
recovers mitochondrial function, both of them are in favor of inhibiting NLRP3 
inflammasome activation, then alleviating neuronal and synaptic damage, and 
finally improving cognitive function.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01695-w
PMCID: PMC11837312
PMID: 39972387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal procedures were approved by the Animal Care and Use 
Committee of China-Japan Friendship Hospital. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


60. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Feb 19;17(1):48. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01692-z.

The impact of kidney function on Alzheimer's disease blood biomarkers: 
implications for predicting amyloid-β positivity.

Arslan B(#)(1)(2), Brum WS(#)(3)(4), Pola I(3), Therriault J(5), Rahmouni N(5), 
Stevenson J(5), Servaes S(5), Tan K(3), Vitali P(5), Montembeault M(5), 
Klostranec J(5), Macedo AC(5), Tissot C(5)(6), Gauthier S(5), Lantero-Rodriguez 
J(3), Zimmer ER(4)(7)(8)(9), Blennow K(3)(10)(11)(12), Zetterberg 
H(3)(13)(12)(14)(15)(16), Rosa-Neto P(5), Benedet AL(#)(3), Ashton 
NJ(#)(17)(18)(19)(20).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden. burak.arslan@gu.se.
(2)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden. burak.arslan@gu.se.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Biochemistry, Universidade Federal 
Do Rio Grande Do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(5)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, Department of Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Psychiatry and Pharmacology and Therapeutics, McGill University 
Research Centre for Studies in Aging, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital, 
Douglas Research Institute, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(6)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(7)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Pharmacology and Therapeutics, 
UFRGS, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(8)Department of Pharmacology, UFRGS, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(9)McGill Centre for Studies in Aging, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(10)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(11)Division of Life Sciences and Medicine, and Department of Neurology, 
Institute On Aging and Brain Disorders, Neurodegenerative Disorder Research 
Center, University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated 
Hospital of USTC, Hefei, People's Republic of China.
(12)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(13)School of Medicine and Public Health, Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.
(14)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK.
(15)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, UK.
(16)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(17)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden. nicholas.ashton@gu.se.
(18)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience Maurice Wohl Institute 
Clinical, King's College London, Neuroscience Institute London, London, UK. 
nicholas.ashton@gu.se.
(19)Banner Alzheimer's Institute and University of Arizona, Phoenix, AZ, USA. 
nicholas.ashton@gu.se.
(20)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, AZ, 85351, USA. 
nicholas.ashton@gu.se.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Impaired kidney function has a potential confounding effect on blood 
biomarker levels, including biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Given the 
imminent use of certain blood biomarkers in the routine diagnostic work-up of 
patients with suspected AD, knowledge on the potential impact of comorbidities 
on the utility of blood biomarkers is important. We aimed to evaluate the 
association between kidney function, assessed through estimated glomerular 
filtration rate (eGFR) calculated from plasma creatinine and AD blood 
biomarkers, as well as their influence over predicting Aβ-positivity.
METHODS: We included 242 participants from the Translational Biomarkers in Aging 
and Dementia (TRIAD) cohort, comprising cognitively unimpaired individuals (CU; 
n = 124), mild cognitive impairment (MCI; n = 58), AD dementia (n = 34), and 
non-AD dementia (n = 26) patients all characterized by [18F] AZD-4694. Plasma 
samples were analyzed for Aβ42, Aβ40, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), 
neurofilament light chain (NfL), tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 (p-tau181), 
217 (p-tau217), 231 (p-tau231) and N-terminal containing tau fragments (NTA-tau) 
using Simoa technology. Kidney function was assessed by eGFR in mL/min/1.73 m2, 
based on plasma creatinine levels, age, and sex. Participants were also 
stratified according to their eGFR-indexed stages of chronic kidney disease 
(CKD). We evaluated the association between eGFR and blood biomarker levels with 
linear models and assessed whether eGFR provided added predictive value to 
determine Aβ-positivity with logistic regression models.
RESULTS: Biomarker concentrations were highest in individuals with CKD stage 3, 
followed by stages 2 and 1, but differences were only significant for NfL, Aβ42, 
and Aβ40 (not Aβ42/Aβ40). All investigated biomarkers showed significant 
associations with eGFR except plasma NTA-tau, with stronger relationships 
observed for Aβ40 and NfL. However, after adjusting for either age, sex or 
Aβ-PET SUVr, the association with eGFR was no longer significant for all 
biomarkers except Aβ40, Aβ42, NfL, and GFAP. When evaluating whether accounting 
for kidney function could lead to improved prediction of Aβ-positivity, we 
observed no improvements in model fit (Akaike Information Criterion, AIC) or in 
discriminative performance (AUC) by adding eGFR to a base model including each 
plasma biomarker, age, and sex. While covariates like age and sex improved model 
fit, eGFR contributed minimally, and there were no significant differences in 
clinical discrimination based on AUC values.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that kidney function seems to be associated with AD blood 
biomarker concentrations. However, these associations did not remain significant 
after adjusting for age and sex, except for Aβ40, Aβ42, NfL, and GFAP. While 
covariates such as age and sex improved prediction of Aβ-positivity, including 
eGFR in the models did not lead to improved prediction for any biomarker. Our 
findings indicate that renal function, within the normal to mild impairment 
range, does not seem to have a clinically relevant impact when using highly 
accurate blood biomarkers, such as p-tau217, in a biomarker-supported diagnosis.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01692-z
PMCID: PMC11837363
PMID: 39972340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All participants provided informed consent, and the study protocols 
were approved by the appropriate ethical review boards. TRIAD was approved by 
the Montreal Neurological Institute PET working committee and the Douglas Mental 
Health University Institute Research Ethics Board (IUSMD16-61, IUSMD16-60). 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: NJA has given 
lectures, produced educational materials, and participated in educational 
programs for Eli-Lily, BioArtic, Quanterix. E.R.Z serves on the scientific 
advisory board of Next Innovative Therapeutics and is cofounder and member of 
the scientific advisory board of Masima. KB has served as a consultant and at 
advisory boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, 
Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche 
Diagnostics, Sanofi and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring 
committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced 
educational materials and participated in educational programs for AC Immune, 
Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of 
Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper. HZ has 
served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, 
Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Alzecure, Biogen, and Roche, and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work).61. Sci Rep. 2025 Feb 19;15(1):6099. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-89738-y.

Towards realistic simulation of disease progression in the visual cortex with 
CNNs.

Moore JA(1)(2)(3), Kang C(4)(5), Vigneshwaran V(4)(5), Stanley EAM(4)(5)(6), 
Memon A(7), Wilms M(4)(5)(8)(9), Forkert ND(4)(5)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada. 
jasmine.moore@ucalgary.ca.
(2)Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada. 
jasmine.moore@ucalgary.ca.
(3)Biomedical Engineering Graduate Program, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Canada. jasmine.moore@ucalgary.ca.
(4)Department of Radiology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.
(5)Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.
(6)Biomedical Engineering Graduate Program, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Canada.
(7)Cumming School of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.
(9)Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute, Calgary, Canada.
(10)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Canada.

Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and mammalian visual systems share 
architectural and information processing similarities. We leverage these 
parallels to develop an in-silico CNN model simulating diseases affecting the 
visual system. This model aims to replicate neural complexities in an 
experimentally controlled environment. Therefore, we examine object recognition 
and internal representations of a CNN under neurodegeneration and 
neuroplasticity conditions simulated through synaptic weight decay and 
retraining. This approach can model neurodegeneration from events like tau 
accumulation, reflecting cognitive decline in diseases such as posterior 
cortical atrophy, a condition that can accompany Alzheimer's disease and 
primarily affects the visual system. After each degeneration iteration, we 
retrain unaffected synapses to simulate ongoing neuroplasticity. Our results 
show that with significant synaptic decay and limited retraining, the model's 
representational similarity decreases compared to a healthy model. Early CNN 
layers retain high similarity to the healthy model, while later layers are more 
prone to degradation. The results of this study reveal a progressive decline in 
object recognition proficiency, mirroring posterior cortical atrophy 
progression. In-silico modeling of neurodegenerative diseases can enhance our 
understanding of disease progression and aid in developing targeted 
rehabilitation and treatments.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-89738-y
PMCID: PMC11839997
PMID: 39972104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


62. Nat Commun. 2025 Feb 19;16(1):1755. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-56690-4.

Drug repurposing for Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders.

Cummings JL(1), Zhou Y(2), Van Stone A(3), Cammann D(4), Tonegawa-Kuji R(2), 
Fonseca J(5), Cheng F(2)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine, University of Nevada, Las Vegas 
(UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, 89106, USA. jcummings@cnsinnovations.com.
(2)Genomic Medicine Institute, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio, 44195, USA.
(3)Roseman University of Health Sciences, Las Vegas, NV, 89135, USA.
(4)Nevada Institute of Personalized Medicine, University of Nevada Las Vegas 
(UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(5)Howard R Hughes College of Engineering, Department of Computer Science, 
University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV), Las Vegas, NV, 89154, USA.
(6)Department of Molecular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of 
Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, 44106, USA.
(7)Case Comprehensive Cancer Center, Case Western Reserve University School of 
Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio, 44106, USA.
(8)Cleveland Clinic Genome Center, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio, 44195, USA.

Repurposed drugs provide a rich source of potential therapies for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative disorders (NDD). Repurposed drugs have 
information from non-clinical studies, phase 1 dosing, and safety and 
tolerability data collected with the original indication. Computational 
approaches, "omic" studies, drug databases, and electronic medical records help 
identify candidate therapies. Generic repurposed agents lack intellectual 
property protection and are rarely advanced to late-stage trials for AD/NDD. In 
this review we define repurposing, describe the advantages and challenges of 
repurposing, offer strategies for overcoming the obstacles, and describe the key 
contributions of repurposing to the drug development ecosystem.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-56690-4
PMCID: PMC11840136
PMID: 39971900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: J.C. has provided 
consultation to Acadia, Acumen, ALZpath, Axsome Artery, Biogen, Biohaven, 
Bristol-Myers Squib, Eisai, Fosun, GAP Foundation, Janssen, Karuna, Kinoxis, 
Lighthouse, Lilly, Lundbeck, LSP/eqt, Merck, MoCA Cognition, New Amsterdam, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Otsuka, Oxford Brain Diagnostics, Praxis, Prothena, 
ReMYND, Roche, Scottish Brain Sciences, Signant Health, Simcere, sinaptica, 
TrueBinding, and Vaxxinity pharmaceutical, assessment, and investment companies. 
J.C. is the owner of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory. Y.Z., A.S., D.C., R.T.-K., 
J.F., and F.C. declare no competing interests.


63. Eur Geriatr Med. 2025 Apr;16(2):485-524. doi: 10.1007/s41999-024-01150-3.
Epub  2025 Feb 19.

Caregiving outcomes among informal caregivers of persons with multimorbidity and 
dementia: a scoping review.

Liu R(1), Peak K(1), Trubits E(2), Quiñones AR(3).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, USA.
(2)Portland State University, Portland, OR, USA.
(3)Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, USA. quinones@ohsu.edu.

Erratum in
    Eur Geriatr Med. 2025 Apr;16(2):525. doi: 10.1007/s41999-025-01183-2.

PURPOSE: An emerging field of research involves caregiving outcomes for persons 
with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) and co-occurring 
multimorbidity (ADRD-multimorbidity). This scoping review aims to assess and 
synthesize the body of literature on caregiving outcomes among informal 
caregivers of individuals with ADRD-multimorbidity.
METHODS: We adhered to the scoping review framework by Arksey and O'Malley 
(2005) and Levac and colleagues (2010), which encompassed five steps: (1) 
identify the research question(s), delineate the inclusion and exclusion 
criteria, (2) search for relevant studies, (3) select studies, (4) chart the 
data, and (5) collate, summarize, and report results. Electronic databases 
including Ovid Medline, CINAHL, Embase, and PsycINFO were employed to identify 
relevant studies.
RESULTS: A total of 1,856 articles were identified and 29 were included in the 
final review. The majority of studies were quantitative, cross-sectional 
studies. The two most commonly examined caregiving outcomes were caregiver 
burden and psychological well-being. Most research on caregiver outcomes treated 
care recipients' cognitive impairment and chronic conditions separately, rather 
than exploring their interaction. Most studies examining caregiver burden 
utilized Zarit Burden Index and its variants. Specific psychological well-being 
outcomes displayed great variability across studies.
CONCLUSION: Despite challenges in synthesizing the extensive variability in the 
way cognitive status, ADRD-multimorbidity, and caregiving outcomes were 
measured, included, and reported, this review underscores the intricate 
challenges of caregiving, especially when dealing with both cognitive 
impairments and co-occurring chronic conditions. This complexity underscores the 
need for a deeper understanding of the diverse needs facing caregivers of people 
with ADRD-multimorbidity.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to European Geriatric Medicine 
Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s41999-024-01150-3
PMCID: PMC12249549
PMID: 39971851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare there are no conflicts of interest. Ethical approval: This article does 
not contain any studies with human participants or animals performed by any of 
the authors. Informed consent: For this type of study, formal consent is not 
required.


64. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;12(4):100096. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100096.  Epub 2025 Feb 18.

Real-world datasets for the International Registry for Alzheimer's Disease and 
Other Dementias (InRAD) and other registries: An international consensus.

Perneczky R(1), Darby D(2), Frisoni GB(3), Hyde R(4), Iwatsubo T(5), Mummery 
CJ(6), Park KH(7), van Beek J(4), van der Flier WM(8), Jessen F(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, LMU Hospital, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, Germany; German Centre for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Munich, Munich, Germany; Munich Cluster for 
Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany; Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit 
(AGE), School of Public Health, Imperial College London, London, UK; Division of 
Neuroscience, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. Electronic address: 
robert.perneczky@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(2)Department of Neurology, School of Translational Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, Geneva University 
Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)TW1 Healthcare Consulting Ltd., London, UK.
(5)Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Dementia Research Centre, Institute of Neurology, University College London, 
London, UK.
(7)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Gachon University Gil Medical 
Centre, Incheon, South Korea.
(8)Alzheimer Centre Amsterdam, University Medical Centers, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(9)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Cologne, Cologne, 
Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Cologne, Cologne, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Many dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD) registries operate at 
local or national levels without standardization or comprehensive real-world 
data (RWD) collection. This initiative sought to achieve consensus among experts 
on priority outcomes and measures for clinical practice in caring for patients 
with symptomatic AD, particularly in the mild cognitive impairment and mild to 
moderate dementia stages.
OBJECTIVE: The primary aim was to define a minimum dataset (MDS) and extended 
dataset (EDS) to collect RWD in the new International Registry for AD and Other 
Dementias (InRAD) and other AD registries. The MDS and EDS focus on informing 
routine clinical practice, covering relevant comorbidities and safety, and are 
designed to be easily integrated into existing data capture systems.
METHODS AND RESULTS: An international steering committee (ISC) of AD clinician 
experts lead the initiative. The first drafts of the MDS and EDS were developed 
based on a previous global inter-societal Delphi consensus on outcome measures 
for AD. Based on the ISC discussions, a survey was devised and sent to a wider 
stakeholder group. The ISC discussed the survey results, resulting in a 
consensus MDS and EDS covering: patient profile and demographics; lifestyle and 
anthropometrics; co-morbidities and diagnostics; imaging; treatment; clinical 
characterization; safety; discontinuation; laboratory tests; patient and care 
partner outcomes; and interface functionality.
CONCLUSION: By learning from successful examples in other clinical areas, 
addressing current limitations, and proactively enhancing data quality and 
analytical rigor, the InRAD registry will be a foundation to contribute to 
improving patient care and outcomes in neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100096
PMCID: PMC12183950
PMID: 39971671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare the 
following financial interests/personal relationships which may be considered as 
potential competing interests: Robert Hyde reports financial support was 
provided by Eli Lilly and Company. Robert Perneczky reports a relationship with 
F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory and speaking and 
lecture fees. Robert Perneczky reports a relationship with AstraZeneca R&D Reims 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Robert Perneczky reports a relationship 
with Bayer Corporation that includes: consulting or advisory. Robert Perneczky 
reports a relationship with Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Robert Perneczky reports a relationship with General 
Electric Company that includes: speaking and lecture fees. Robert Perneczky 
reports a relationship with Eisai Inc that includes: consulting or advisory and 
speaking and lecture fees. Robert Perneczky reports a relationship with Biogen 
Inc that includes: consulting or advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Robert 
Perneczky reports a relationship with Eli Lilly and Company that includes: 
consulting or advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Robert Perneczky reports a 
relationship with Novo Nordisk Inc that includes: consulting or advisory and 
speaking and lecture fees. Frank Jessen reports a relationship with AbbVie Inc 
that includes: consulting or advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Frank 
Jessen reports a relationship with AC Immune SA that includes: consulting or 
advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Frank Jessen reports a relationship with 
Biogen Inc that includes: consulting or advisory and speaking and lecture fees. 
Frank Jessen reports a relationship with Eisai Inc that includes: consulting or 
advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Frank Jessen reports a relationship with 
Eli Lilly and Company that includes: consulting or advisory and speaking and 
lecture fees. Frank Jessen reports a relationship with Grifols Inc that 
includes: consulting or advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Frank Jessen 
reports a relationship with F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd that includes: consulting or 
advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Frank Jessen reports a relationship with 
General Electric Company that includes: consulting or advisory and speaking and 
lecture fees. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


65. Brain Res Bull. 2025 Mar;222:111263. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111263.
 Epub 2025 Feb 17.

Aerobic exercise improves clearance of amyloid-β via the glymphatic system in a 
mouse model of Alzheimer's Disease.

Liang S(1), Liu H(2), Wang X(2), Lin H(3), Zheng L(2), Zhang Y(2), Peng L(2), 
Huang S(4), Chen L(5).

Author information:
(1)National-Local Joint Engineering Research Center of Rehabilitation Medicine 
Technology, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou 350122, 
China; Rehabilitation Industry Institute, Fujian University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou 350122, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of Cognitive 
Rehabilitation, Affiliated Rehabilitation Hospital of Fujian University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou 350001, China.
(2)College of Rehabilitation Medicine, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Fuzhou 350122, China.
(3)National-Local Joint Engineering Research Center of Rehabilitation Medicine 
Technology, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou 350122, 
China; Rehabilitation Industry Institute, Fujian University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou 350122, China.
(4)Department of Neurological Rehabilitation, Affiliated Rehabilitation Hospital 
of Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou 350001, China. 
Electronic address: hse7411@163.com.
(5)National-Local Joint Engineering Research Center of Rehabilitation Medicine 
Technology, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou 350122, 
China; Rehabilitation Industry Institute, Fujian University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou 350122, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of Rehabilitation 
Technology, Affiliated Rehabilitation Hospital of Fujian University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou 350001, China. Electronic address: 
cld@fjtcm.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Aerobic exercise training can promote the recovery of learning and 
memory ability in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the specific mechanism is still 
unclear. Previous studies have suggested that aquaporin-4 (AQP4)-mediated 
glymphatic system is an important way to clear β-amyloid (Aβ) in the brain, 
which is closely related to learning and memory impairment in AD. However, it 
remains unclear whether AQP4 regulates glymphatic clearance of Aβ which 
contributes to the beneficial effects of aerobic exercise in AD patients. Here, 
the goal of this study was to investigate the mechanisms about aerobic exercise 
whether AQP4 could modulate glymphatic system using APP/PS1 mice.
METHODS: In this study, APP/PS1 AD model mice were treated with aerobic exercise 
intervention through swimming exercise training for 4 weeks, and the two groups 
of mice were injected with AQP4 inhibition virus and empty virus, respectively. 
Their learning and memory abilities were assessed using behavioral tests, such 
as the Barnes maze and Morris water maze tests. Hippocampus was obtained from 
sacrificed mice and used for histological analysis. Tracer imaging of the 
cerebellar medullary pool was used to observed the CSF-ISF exchange, 
immunohistochemistry was used to detect the level of Aβ plaques in the 
hippocampus of mice in each group; immunoblotting was used to detect the 
expression of AQP4 protein; immunofluorescence co-labeling was used to detect 
the polarization distribution of AQP4; qRT-PCR was used to detect the 
transcription levels of AQP4 and its anchoring proteins.
RESULTS: The funding showed that APP/PS1 mice have learning and memory 
impairment, and the glymphatic system is dysfunction. Swimming training can 
improve the ability of the glymphatic system to clear Aβ deposition in the 
hippocampus by up-regulating the transcription levels of Lama1 and Dp71 in the 
hippocampus, reducing the depolarization distribution of AQP4 in the 
hippocampus, and enhancing the exchange of CSF-ISF. Thus, improves learning and 
memory impairment in APP/PS1 mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Swimming training can rescue the function of the glymphatic system, 
increase the CSF-ISF exchange, promote the polarization distribution of AQP4, 
and reduce the deposition of Aβ in the hippocampus, thereby improving the 
learning and memory ability of APP/PS1 mice.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111263
PMID: 39971255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


66. Neurochem Int. 2025 May;185:105946. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2025.105946. Epub
2025  Feb 18.

The novel peptide DBCH reduces LPS-stimulated NF-κB/MAPK signaling in BV-2 
microglia and ameliorates cognitive impairment in scopolamine-treated mice by 
modulating BDNF/CREB.

Yu YJ(1), Rahman MU(1), Balakrishnan R(2), Kim JM(3), Kim JH(3), Choi DK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Life Sciences, Graduate School, BK21 Program, Konkuk 
University, Chungju, 27478, South Korea.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, College of Biomedical and Health Science, 
Research Institute of Inflammatory Disease (RID), Konkuk University, Chungju, 
27478, South Korea.
(3)Division of R&D, WellPep Co., LTD, 172, Dolma-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, 
Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.
(4)Department of Applied Life Sciences, Graduate School, BK21 Program, Konkuk 
University, Chungju, 27478, South Korea; Department of Biotechnology, College of 
Biomedical and Health Science, Research Institute of Inflammatory Disease (RID), 
Konkuk University, Chungju, 27478, South Korea. Electronic address: 
choidk@kku.ac.kr.

Microglial-mediated neuroinflammation significantly impacts cognitive 
impairment, and modulating neuroinflammatory responses has emerged as a 
promising target for treatment. However, the specific role of 
microglial-mediated neuroinflammation in cognitive impairment associated with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unclear. In our continuous endeavors to seek 
potent anti-Alzheimer's agents, we recently synthesized and developed a series 
of peptidomimetic compounds, including dipeptide-68 bis-cyclohexylpropyl 
histidinamide (DBCH), derived from a caryopsis-1 peptide that has demonstrated 
anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial properties in various infectious diseases. 
Among the bioactive peptides synthesized, DBCH exhibited good neuroprotective 
and anti-inflammatory activity and high potency. Therefore, in this study, the 
neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects of DBCH were assessed in 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated BV-2 microglial cells and a 
scopolamine-induced C57BL/6 N amnesic mouse model. In the in vitro study, DBCH 
effectively suppressed the production and expression of nitric oxide (NO) and 
proinflammatory cytokines in BV-2 microglial cells stimulated with LPS. 
Furthermore, it effectively inhibited the LPS-triggered phosphorylation and 
activation of NF-κB/MAPK signaling and modulated inflammatory mediators, 
including iNOS and COX-2, in BV-2 microglial cells. In vivo results showed that 
DBCH administration of 5 or 10 mg/kg improved spatial memory learning and 
cognitive function in scopolamine-induced amnesic mice. Furthermore, DBCH 
treatment upregulated phosphorylated cAMP-response element-binding protein 
(p-CREB) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels and downregulated 
the inflammatory response. Overall, DBCH effectively prevented both 
scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment and neuroinflammation. Our research 
findings suggest that DBCH may serve as a medication for cognitive decline 
associated with AD.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2025.105946
PMID: 39971241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


67. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Mar 13;343:119508. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119508.
Epub  2025 Feb 17.

Jiajian Shuyu pills effectively ameliorate cognitive impairment via regulating 
the inflammation of microglia in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model.

Chen Y(1), Zhu Y(2), Tan Z(3), Zhang X(4), Hu J(5), Zhu R(5), Xie M(6), Wang 
J(4), Chen L(4), Guo Z(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hubei Provincial Hospital of Integrated Chinese and 
Western Medicine, No. 11 Lingjiaohu Road, Wuhan, Hubei, 430015, China. 
Electronic address: cyan0630@163.com.
(2)Wuhan No.1 Hospital, Wuhan Hospital of Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine, Wuhan, Hubei, 430015, China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, Hubei Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Wuhan, 430061, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Hubei Provincial Hospital of Integrated Chinese and 
Western Medicine, No. 11 Lingjiaohu Road, Wuhan, Hubei, 430015, China.
(5)Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, Wuhan, 430065, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, No. 1095 Jiefang Avenue, Wuhan, 430030, 
China.
(7)Department of Neurology, Hubei Provincial Hospital of Integrated Chinese and 
Western Medicine, No. 11 Lingjiaohu Road, Wuhan, Hubei, 430015, China. 
Electronic address: gzl6507@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent 
neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive cognitive decline and 
behavioral impairments in the elderly. Microglia, the resident immune cells of 
the central nervous system, play a crucial role in modulating the pathological 
processes associated with AD. Jiajian Shuyu Pills (JJSYP) are frequently 
employed in the treatment of AD, purportedly by enhancing the physiological 
functions of human tissues and organs to modulate the immune response. 
Nevertheless, the underlying mechanisms by which JJSYP exert their therapeutic 
effects in the context of AD remain inadequately elucidated.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aimed to assess the effects of JJSYP on cognitive 
enhancement and the alleviation of neuroinflammation in the treatment of AD, as 
well as to explore the underlying mechanisms using mouse models.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The components of JJSYP in serum were analyzed using 
HPLC-Q/TOF-MS. APP/PS1 transgenic mice served as AD models in this 
investigation. Cognitive function in the AD mice was assessed through the Mirror 
Water Maze Test and the Novel Object Recognition Test. The quantification of 
apoptotic hippocampal cells was conducted using Nissl staining and TUNEL 
staining. Immunofluorescence (IF) and Western blot (WB) analyses were employed 
to examine microglial activation and the expression of relevant proteins. 
Transcriptomic sequencing analysis and network pharmacology were administrated 
to explore the potential mechanisms of JJSYP in AD treatment. Inflammatory 
cytokine levels in the brain were measured using RT-PCR.
RESULTS: A total of 74 absorbed prototype components from JJSYP were identified. 
JJSYP effectively improved cognitive function and neuroapoptosis in AD model 
mice by modulating the activation of microglia. The JJSYP intervention 
alleviated neuroinflammation by suppressing microglial activation and reducing 
the accumulation of amyloid β-protein. Through transcriptome sequencing and WB 
verification, 34 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, 
including ACKR3, NR1H3 and Adra1a. Following treatment with a high dose of 
JJSYP, both ACKR3 and NR1H3 showed a significant decrease compared to the model 
group. Conversely, ADRA1A expression was reduced in model group compared to the 
control group, but increased following high dose JJSYP treatment. Research 
involving RNA sequencing and network pharmacology indicated that JJSYP altered 
the activation of CXCL12/ACKR3 signaling pathways in the hippocampus.
CONCLUSIONS: JJSYP exhibits potential anti-Alzheimer's Disease effects and 
warrants further investigation and development as a prosper treatment for AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119508
PMID: 39971019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest in this article.


68. Neuroscience. 2025 Apr 6;571:74-88. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.02.037. 
Epub 2025 Feb 17.

Unscrambling the cellular and molecular threads of Neuroplasticity: Insights 
into Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis.

Kalra P(1), Grewal AK(2), Khan H(3), Singh TG(4).

Author information:
(1)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab 140401, 
India; University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Rayat Bahra University, 
Mohali, Punjab 140103, India.
(2)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab 140401, 
India. Electronic address: amarjot.kaur@chitkara.edu.in.
(3)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab 140401, 
India.
(4)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab 140401, 
India. Electronic address: gurjeet.singh@chitkara.edu.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is predominantly the most recurring and devastating 
neurological condition among the elderly population, characterized by the 
accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) and phosphorylated tau proteins, and is 
accompanied by progressive decline of learning and memory. Due to its complex 
and multifactorial etiology, a wide variety of therapeutic interventions have 
been developed. Despite constant advancements in the field, effective treatments 
that ameliorate the severity of Alzheimer's symptoms or cease their progression 
are still insufficient. Mounting evidence suggests that synaptic dysfunction 
could be an essential component of AD pathogenesis as synapse signaling is 
impaired in the aging brain, which contributes to synaptic decline. Therefore, 
improving neuroplasticity such as synaptic plasticity or neurogenesis could be a 
promising therapeutic approach for alleviating the effects of AD. This article 
reviews the cellular and molecular threads of neuroplasticity as well as targets 
that restore neuronal survival and plasticity to provide functional recoveries, 
including receptors, downstream signaling pathways, ion channels, transporters, 
enzymes, and neurotrophic factors.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.02.037
PMID: 39970983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Phytomedicine. 2025 Apr;139:156502. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156502. Epub
2025  Feb 13.

Novel application of cycloastragenol target microglia for the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease: Evidence from single-cell analysis, network pharmacology 
and experimental assessment.

Weng W(1), Lin B(2), Zheng J(1), Sun Y(1), Li Z(3), Chen X(4), Wang Y(5), Pan 
X(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Center for Cognitive Neurology, Fujian Medical 
University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, China; Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, Fujian 
Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, China; Institute of Clinical 
Neurology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of 
Molecular Neurology, Institute of Neuroscience, Fujian Medical University, 
Fuzhou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Yangtze University, 
Jingzhou, China.
(3)Center for Molecular Imaging and Translational Medicine, State Key Laboratory 
of Molecular Vaccinology and Molecular Diagnostics, School of Public Health, 
Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Center for Cognitive Neurology, Fujian Medical 
University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, China; Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, Fujian 
Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, China; Institute of Clinical 
Neurology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of 
Molecular Neurology, Institute of Neuroscience, Fujian Medical University, 
Fuzhou, China. Electronic address: chenxc998@fjmu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Endocrinology, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 
Fuzhou, China. Electronic address: yp1014wang@163.com.
(6)Department of Neurology, Center for Cognitive Neurology, Fujian Medical 
University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, China; Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, Fujian 
Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, China; Institute of Clinical 
Neurology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of 
Molecular Neurology, Institute of Neuroscience, Fujian Medical University, 
Fuzhou, China. Electronic address: pxd77316@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Cycloastragenol (CAG), a compound extracted from Astragalus, is 
known for its telomerase activation and anti-inflammatory, antioxidant 
properties. However, its potential pharmacological effects on Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) remain unclear.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to explore potential targets and molecular mechanisms 
for the role of CAG in alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment.
METHODS: CAG was administered to 5 × FAD mice. The senescent cell count was 
verified by senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) staining. The 
impact of CAG on microglial phagocytosis was assessed by in vitro and in vivo 
assays. The potential targets of CAG were identified by network pharmacology and 
single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq). The underlying mechanism was 
validated by molecular docking, surface plasmon resonance (SPR) and western 
blotting.
RESULTS: CAG effectively ameliorated cognitive impairments and microglial 
senescence in 5 × FAD mice. In vivo and in vitro experiments revealed that CAG 
modulated microglial phagocytic activity and reduced hippocampal Aβ deposition 
The analysis of single-nucleus RNA sequencing data of AD patients reported 13 
microglial targets for AD intervention. Phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B) was 
identified as the target through which CAG regulated microglial activity by 
utilizing network pharmacology, molecular docking and SPR. Western blotting 
revealed that the PDE4B/CREB/BDNF pathway may mediate the regulatory effect of 
CAG.
CONCLUSION: CAG can enhance microglial phagocytosis and alleviate memory 
dysfunction and amyloid plaque pathology. Our findings suggest that CAG may 
regulate microglial function through its interaction with PDE4B, providing a 
novel therapeutic strategy for AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156502
PMID: 39970860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


70. Phytomedicine. 2025 Apr;139:156504. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156504. Epub
2025  Feb 13.

Sclareol improves the pathology of Alzheimer's disease by inhibiting microglial 
inflammation via interacting with CDK9.

Tang H(1), Li L(2), Yu Q(3), Chen L(3), Xu X(3), Meng Z(3), Zeng Y(3), Chen 
F(3), Muzaffar H(3), Wang W(4), Zhao X(5), Liang G(6).

Author information:
(1)Affiliated Yongkang First People's Hospital and School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311399, China; Department 
of Pharmacy and Institute of Inflammation, Zhejiang Provincial People's 
Hospital, Affiliated People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 310014, China.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang 325035, China.
(3)Affiliated Yongkang First People's Hospital and School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311399, China.
(4)Affiliated Yongkang First People's Hospital and School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311399, China. Electronic 
address: ykoneway2000@126.com.
(5)Affiliated Yongkang First People's Hospital and School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311399, China; Department 
of Pharmacy and Institute of Inflammation, Zhejiang Provincial People's 
Hospital, Affiliated People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 310014, China. Electronic address: xiazhao@hmc.edu.cn.
(6)Affiliated Yongkang First People's Hospital and School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311399, China; Department 
of Pharmacy and Institute of Inflammation, Zhejiang Provincial People's 
Hospital, Affiliated People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 310014, China. Electronic address: liangguang@wmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Excessive activation of microglia triggers pro-inflammatory 
responses, exacerbating neuronal damage and accelerating the progression of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Thus, targeting abnormal microglial activation 
represents a promising therapeutic strategy for AD. In this study, we identified 
sclareol (SCL) through compound library screening as a potent anti-inflammatory 
agent capable of crossing the blood-brain barrier. However, there are currently 
no reports on whether SCL modulates microglial inflammation or ameliorates AD 
pathology.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the anti-inflammatory effects and underlying molecular 
mechanism of SCL on microglial-mediated inflammation and neuronal damage in AD.
METHODS: Drug Affinity Responsive Target Stability (DARTS), Liquid 
Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS), protein interaction assays, 
Biolayer Interferometry (BLI), and molecular docking were used to explore the 
interaction between SCL and cyclin-dependent kinase 9 (CDK9). Behavioral tests 
and immunofluorescent (IF) staining were performed to assess the effects of SCL 
on microglial activation and AD pathology. The molecular mechanism of the 
anti-inflammatory effect of SCL was analyzed by interfering with CDK9.
RESULTS: SCL significantly inhibited the release of proinflammatory mediators, 
reduced neuronal damage, and alleviated cognitive deficits in AD model mice. 
Notably, SCL demonstrated the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), 
highlighting its therapeutic potential. Mechanistically, SCL binds directly to 
CDK9, which contributes to the inflammatory response through its interaction 
with NF-κB. Knockdown of CDK9 reduced the NF-κB-mediated inflammatory response, 
but did not have an additive effect on SCL, indicating that SCL's efficacy is 
mediated by CDK9 inhibition and subsequent suppression of the NF-κB signaling 
pathway.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that SCL exerts neuroprotective effects in 
AD mice by targeting CDK9 and downstream NF-κB signaling pathway to reduce the 
inflammatory activation of microglia. These findings suggest that SCL is a 
promising candidate for the treatment of AD, offering a novel therapeutic 
approach to mitigate disease progression through modulation of microglial 
activation.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156504
PMID: 39970859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


71. JMIR Ment Health. 2025 Feb 19;12:e64716. doi: 10.2196/64716.

Digital Migration of the Loewenstein Acevedo Scales for Semantic Interference 
and Learning (LASSI-L): Development and Validation Study in Older Participants.

Harvey P(1), Curiel-Cid R(1), Kallestrup P(2), Mueller A(2), Rivera-Molina A(2), 
Czaja S(3), Crocco E(1), Loewenstein D(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, 1120 NW 14th Street, Miami, FL, 33136, United States, 1 3052434094.
(2)i-Function, Inc, Miami, FL, United States.
(3)Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, 
United States.

BACKGROUND: The early detection of mild cognitive impairment is crucial for 
providing treatment before further decline. Cognitive challenge tests such as 
the Loewenstein-Acevedo Scales for Semantic Interference and Learning (LASSI-L) 
can identify individuals at highest risk for cognitive deterioration. 
Performance on elements of the LASSI-L, particularly proactive interference, 
correlate with the presence of critical Alzheimer disease biomarkers. However, 
in-person paper tests require skilled testers and are not practical in many 
community settings or for large-scale screening in prevention.
OBJECTIVE: This study reports on the development and initial validation of a 
self-administered computerized version of the Loewenstein-Acevedo Scales for 
Semantic Interference (LASSI), the digital LASSI (LASSI-D). A self-administered 
digital version, with an artificial intelligence-generated avatar assistant, was 
the migrated assessment.
METHODS: Cloud-based software was developed, using voice recognition technology, 
for English and Spanish versions of the LASSI-D. Participants were assessed with 
either the LASSI-L or LASSI-D first, in a sequential assessment study. 
Participants with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI; n=54) or normal 
cognition (NC; n=58) were also tested with traditional measures such as the 
Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale-Cognition. We examined group differences in 
performance across the legacy and digital versions of the LASSI, as well as 
correlations between LASSI performance and other measures across the versions.
RESULTS: Differences on recall and intrusion variables between aMCI and NC 
samples on both versions were all statistically significant (all P<.001), with 
at least medium effect sizes (d>0.68). There were no statistically significant 
performance differences in these variables between legacy and digital 
administration in either sample (all P<.13). There were no language differences 
in any variables (P>.10), and correlations between LASSI variables and other 
cognitive variables were statistically significant (all P<.01). The most 
predictive legacy variables, proactive interference and failure to recover from 
proactive interference, were identical across legacy and migrated versions 
within groups and were identical to results of previous studies with the legacy 
LASSI-L. Classification accuracy was 88% for NC and 78% for aMCI participants.
CONCLUSIONS: The results for the digital migration of the LASSI-D were highly 
convergent with the legacy LASSI-L. Across all indices of similarity, including 
sensitivity, criterion validity, classification accuracy, and performance, the 
versions converged across languages. Future studies will present additional 
validation data, including correlations with blood-based Alzheimer disease 
biomarkers and alternative forms. The current data provide convincing evidence 
of the use of a fully self-administered digitally migrated cognitive challenge 
test.

© Philip Harvey, Rosie Curiel-Cid, Peter Kallestrup, Annalee Mueller, Andrea 
Rivera-Molina, Sara Czaja, Elizabeth Crocco, David Loewenstein. Originally 
published in JMIR Mental Health (https://mental.jmir.org).

DOI: 10.2196/64716
PMCID: PMC11864698
PMID: 39970376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: RCC abd DL, co-developers 
of the LASSI-L, along with the University of Miami retain the rights to the 
intellectual property utilized in the study and may financially benefit from its 
commercialization. Both RCC and DL have also served as paid consultants for 
iFunction in the development of the new digitized version, the LASSI-D. SC holds 
the position of Co-Scientific Officer at iFunction, while PH, ARM, and PK are 
employees of the company.


72. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2025 Feb 25;122(8):e2421573122. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2421573122. Epub 2025 Feb 19.

Druggable genome screens identify SPP as an antiviral host target for multiple 
flaviviruses.

Qiao W(1), Xie X(2), Shi PY(3), Ooi YS(4)(5), Carette JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Texas Medical 
Branch, Galveston, TX 77555.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Texas Medical 
Branch, Galveston, TX 77555.
(4)Program in Emerging Infectious Diseases, Duke-National University of 
Singapore Medical School, Singapore 169857, Singapore.
(5)Infectious Diseases Labs, Agency for Science, Technology and Research, 
Singapore 138648, Singapore.

Mosquito-borne flaviviruses, such as dengue virus (DENV), Zika virus (ZIKV), 
West Nile virus, and yellow fever virus, pose significant public health threats 
globally. Extensive efforts have led to the development of promising highly 
active compounds against DENV targeting viral non-structural protein 4B (NS4B) 
protein. However, due to the cocirculation of flaviviruses and to prepare for 
emerging flaviviruses, there is a need for more broadly acting antivirals. 
Host-directed therapy where one targets a host factor required for viral 
replication may be active against multiple viruses that use similar replication 
strategies. Here, we used a CRISPR-Cas9 library that we designed to target the 
druggable genome and identified signal peptide peptidase (SPP, encoded by 
Histocompatibility Minor 13, HM13), as a critical host factor in DENV infection. 
Genetic knockout or introducing mutations that disrupt the proteolytic activity 
of SPP markedly reduced the replication of multiple flaviviruses. Although their 
substrates differ, SPP has structural homology with γ-secretase, which has been 
pursued as a pharmacological target for Alzheimer's disease. Notably, 
SPP-targeting compounds exhibited potent anti-DENV activity at low nanomolar 
concentrations across multiple primary and disease-relevant cell types, acting 
specifically through SPP inhibition rather than γ-secretase inhibition. 
Importantly, SPP inhibitors were active at low nanomolar concentrations against 
flaviviruses other than DENV including ZIKV while DENV NS4B inhibitors lost 
activity. This study emphasizes the strong potential of SPP as a pan-flaviviral 
target and provides a framework for identifying host druggable targets to screen 
for broad-spectrum antivirals.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2421573122
PMCID: PMC11874179
PMID: 39969998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:The authors 
declare no competing interest.


73. Neurol Sci. 2025 Jun;46(6):2393-2399. doi: 10.1007/s10072-025-08051-8. Epub
2025  Feb 19.

miRNAs in neurodegenerative diseases: from target screening to precision 
therapy.

Liao D(1), Zhang Y(1), Li S(1), Tang H(1), Bai X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Affiliated Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Hospital, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Affiliated Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Hospital, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, China. baixue@swmu.edu.cn.

miRNAs are critical for different disease development processes, including cell 
growth, signaling, apoptosis, cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. It has been 
shown that altered miRNA levels are associated with reactive oxygen species 
(ROS) formation and mitochondrial dysfunction. While mitochondrial dysfunction 
and ROS formation occur in many neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's 
disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis, miRNAs have the potential to be diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic 
targets with a high degree of specificity, which is highly relevant in 
neurodegenerative pathologies.This paper gives a general summary of the current 
expression of miRNAs in neurodegenerative diseases, including miRNAs 
up-regulated or down-regulated in a variety of diseases, as well as the 
associated factors of influence. miRNAs are more like a double-edged sword, 
their multi-targeted role has brought light to many diseases for which there are 
currently no clear therapeutic options, but at the same time, their low 
specificity and possible side effects on the whole body should not be ignored, 
therefore However, at the same time, its low specificity and possible side 
effects on the whole body should not be ignored, therefore, more attention 
should be paid to the development of miRNA therapy in terms of its high 
efficiency, the use of carriers, and the clarification of side effects.

© 2025. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-025-08051-8
PMID: 39969752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: This article 
does not require an ethics statement. Competing interests: This article has no 
conflict of interest.


74. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jun;62(6):8065-8083. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04735-6.
Epub  2025 Feb 19.

IGF1R/ARRB1 Mediated Regulation of ERK and cAMP Pathways in Response to Aβ 
Unfolds Novel Therapeutic Avenue in Alzheimer's Disease.

Sengupta P(1)(2), Mukhopadhyay D(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Biophysical Sciences Group, 1/AF, Biddhanagar, Saha Institute of Nuclear 
Physics, Kolkata, 700064, India.
(2)Homi Bhabha National Institute, Anushaktinagar, Mumbai, 400094, India.
(3)Biophysical Sciences Group, 1/AF, Biddhanagar, Saha Institute of Nuclear 
Physics, Kolkata, 700064, India. debashis.mukhopadhyay@saha.ac.in.
(4)Homi Bhabha National Institute, Anushaktinagar, Mumbai, 400094, India. 
debashis.mukhopadhyay@saha.ac.in.

IGF1R/INSR signaling is crucial for understanding Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
may aid in the development of potent therapeutic strategies. This study 
investigated the expression and activity of these receptors and their potential 
to form functional hybrids in response to amyloid beta (Aβ). IGF1R, INSR, and 
ARRB1 were found to be upregulated in AD. The propensity for functional hybrid 
formation was also greater in the presence of Aβ. The association of IGF1R with 
ARRB1 reached a maximum at 60 min of Aβ treatment, which coincided with 
increased pERK activity at approximately the same time, indicating the 
importance of this association in pERK regulation. Knocking down IGF1R, INSR, 
and ARRB1 independently reduced cAMP, whereas overexpressing IGF1R significantly 
increased cAMP. Knocking down ARRB1 in IGF1R-overexpressing cells led to a 
reduction in cAMP, indicating that the interaction of ARRB1 and IGF1R possibly 
contributes to cAMP dysregulation. Since cAMP plays a crucial role in cognition 
and memory, alterations in cAMP after receptor hybridization could be 
significant in AD. Additionally, we noted hyperactivation of MAPK, which is 
associated with aberrant cellular activity, transcriptional control, and stress 
pathways. This finding highlights the importance of IGF1R and INSR 
dysregulation, which plays a major role in addition to conventional RTK 
signaling through multiple pathways. Here, we focused on the ARRB1 and IGF1R 
interaction and showed that picropodophyllin (PPP), an IGF1R-specific inhibitor, 
blocks this interaction and alters the ERK and cAMP status under disease 
conditions. Cell viability studies further revealed that the PPP substantially 
improved cell viability in the presence of Aβ. This highlights the role of the 
PPP in regulating these cascades and opens the arena for further therapeutic 
development for AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04735-6
PMCID: PMC12078455
PMID: 39969678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval and Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Competing 
Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


75. Brain. 2025 Jul 7;148(7):2262-2282. doi: 10.1093/brain/awaf068.

The blood-brain barrier: a help and a hindrance.

Rust R(1)(2), Yin H(3), Achón Buil B(4), Sagare AP(1)(2), Kisler K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience, University of Southern California, 
Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA.
(2)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA.
(3)Robarts Research Institute, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada.
(4)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, University of Zurich, Schlieren, Zurich 
8952, Switzerland.

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a specialized vascular structure that protects 
the brain micro-environment from toxins and pathogens in the blood. At the same 
time, the BBB presents a significant challenge for drug development, as it 
restricts the entry of most therapeutics into the brain. In this review, we 
first examine recent findings on the molecular and cellular architecture of the 
BBB, emphasizing the diverse mechanisms that facilitate the transport and 
exchange of molecules between the blood and the brain. We discuss current 
knowledge on the heterogeneity of the BBB along the arteriovenous axis and 
across different brain regions. Then, we explore the molecular and functional 
changes in the BBB that occur during normal ageing, neurodegeneration and acute 
brain injuries, and how prolonged BBB impairment affects transport mechanisms 
and disease progression. Additionally, we discuss novel developments in drug 
delivery strategies to transport small molecules, biologicals or cellular 
therapeutics across the BBB. Finally, we examine therapeutic opportunities to 
restore the BBB and discuss future directions in the field.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awaf068
PMCID: PMC12233556
PMID: 39969549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests


76. Medicine (Baltimore). 2024 Dec 27;103(52):e40726. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000040726.

Exploring the potential mechanism of Polygonatum sibiricum for Alzheimer's 
disease based on network pharmacology and molecular docking: An observational 
study.

Luo L(1), Pan Y(1)(2), Chen F(1)(2), Zhang Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Jiangxi Medical College, Nanchang University, 
Nanchang, China.
(2)Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory of Disease Prevention and Public Health, 
Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease, and there have been no 
systematic studies of Polygonatum against Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, our 
study will elucidate the mechanism of Polygonatum against AD based on network 
pharmacology and molecular docking. The active ingredients and corresponding 
targets of Polygonatum were identified using the traditional Chinese medicine 
systematic pharmacology database and analysis platform. Disease targets of AD 
were retrieved from the therapeutic target database, Online Mendelian 
Inheritance in Man, GeneCards, and Disgenet databases. Using the STRING 
database, we constructed protein interaction networks and performed gene 
ontology functional enrichment analysis as well as Kyoto encyclopedia of genes 
and genomes pathway enrichment analysis on common targets. We then drew 
drug-component-target-pathway-disease network maps using Cytoscape 3.10.1 
software and validated the molecular docking using AutoDock4. A total of 10 
active ingredients and 108 common targets were screened from Polygonatum, 29 
genes (including AKT1 and STAT3) were identified as core genes. According to 
gene ontology analysis, the core targets were found to be mainly involved in 
signal transduction, positive regulation of gene expression, negative regulation 
of the apoptotic process, and so on. The Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes 
analysis revealed that the signaling pathways comprised pathways in cancer, 
pathways of neurodegeneration - multiple diseases, and PI3K-Akt signaling 
pathway. The molecular docking results indicated that 10 of active ingredients 
from Polygonatum exhibited strong binding affinity with the 6 core targets that 
were screened before. The activity of Polygonatum against AD could be attributed 
to the regulation of multiple biological effects via multi-pathways (pathways in 
cancer, pathways of neurodegeneration - multiple diseases, and PI3K-Akt 
signaling pathway). The binding activities were estimated as good level by 
molecular docking. These discoveries disclosed the multi-component, 
multi-target, and multi-pathway characteristics of Polygonatum against AD, 
providing a new strategy for such medical problem.

Copyright © 2024 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000040726
PMCID: PMC11688029
PMID: 39969345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


77. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2025 Jun 10;80(7):gbaf023. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbaf023.

Integrating Machine Learning and Environmental and Genetic Risk Factors for the 
Early Detection of Preclinical Alzheimer's Disease.

Al-Hammadi N(1), Abouelyazid M(2), Brown DC(1), Lalwani P(3), Devos H(4)(5), 
Carr DB(6), Babulal GM(1)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(2)Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, Indiana, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(4)Department of Physical Therapy, Rehabilitation Science, and Athletic 
Training, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas, USA.
(5)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of 
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(7)Institute of Public Health, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(8)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Humanities, University of Johannesburg, 
South Africa.

OBJECTIVE: This study classified preclinical Alzheimer's disease (AD) using 
cognitive screening, neighborhood deprivation via the area deprivation index 
(ADI), and sociodemographic and genetic risk factors. Additionally, it compared 
the predictive accuracy of multiple machine learning algorithms and examined 
model performance with two bootstrapping procedures.
METHODS: Data were drawn from a longitudinal cohort that required participants 
to be age 65 or older, cognitively normal at baseline, and active drivers, 
defined as taking at least one trip a week. Naturalistic driving data were 
collected using a commercial datalogger. Biomarker positivity was determined via 
amyloid pathology using cerebrospinal fluid and positron emission tomography 
imaging. ADI was captured based on geocoding latitude and longitude to derive a 
national ranking for the specific location (home or unique destination). Machine 
learning algorithms classified preclinical AD. Each individual model's 
predictive ability was confirmed in a 20% testing dataset with 100 rounds of 
resampling with and without replacement.
RESULTS: Among 292 participants (n = 2,792 observations), including ADI of trip 
destinations, participants' home ADI, and frequency of trips to the same ADI led 
to a slight but notable improvement in predicting preclinical AD. The ensemble 
model demonstrated superior predictive performance, highlighting the potential 
of integrating multiple models for early AD detection.
DISCUSSION: Our findings underscore the importance of incorporating 
socioeconomic and environmental variables, such as neighborhood deprivation, in 
predicting preclinical AD. Addressing socioeconomic disparities through public 
health strategies is crucial for mitigating AD risk and enhancing the quality of 
life for older adults.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbaf023
PMCID: PMC12223364
PMID: 39969227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: G. M. Babulal served as a co-editor for the 
special issue in which this article was published but was not involved in the 
review or decision for the article. All other authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


78. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14489. doi: 10.1002/alz.14489. Epub 2025
Feb  19.

Dissociable spatial topography of cortical atrophy in early-onset and late-onset 
Alzheimer's disease: A head-to-head comparison of the LEADS and ADNI cohorts.

Katsumi Y(1), Touroutoglou A(1), Brickhouse M(1), Eloyan A(2), Eckbo R(1), 
Zaitsev A(1), La Joie R(3), Lagarde J(3), Schonhaut D(3), Thangarajah M(2), 
Taurone A(2), Vemuri P(4), Jack CR Jr(4), Dage JL(5)(6), Nudelman KNH(6), Foroud 
T(6), Hammers DB(5), Ghetti B(6), Murray ME(7), Newell KL(6), Polsinelli AJ(5), 
Aisen P(8), Reman R(8), Beckett L(9), Kramer JH(3), Atri A(10), Day GS(11), 
Duara R(12), Graff-Radford NR(11), Grant IM(13), Honig LS(14), Johnson ECB(15), 
Jones DT(4), Masdeu JC(16), Mendez MF(17), Musiek E(18), Onyike CU(19), Riddle 
M(20), Rogalski E(21), Salloway S(2), Sha S(22), Turner RS(23), Wingo TS(24), 
Wolk DA(25), Womack K(18), Carrillo MC(26), Rabinovici GD(3), Apostolova 
LG(5)(6)(27), Dickerson BC(1); LEADS Consortium for the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Frontotemporal Disorders Unit and Massachusetts Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Center for Statistical Sciences, Brown 
University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of California - San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
Indiana, USA.
(6)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(7)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(8)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, University of Southern 
California, San Diego, USA.
(9)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California - Davis, 
Davis, California, USA.
(10)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(12)Wien Center for Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders, Mount Sinai 
Medical Center, Miami, Florida, USA.
(13)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Mesulam Center for 
Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(14)Taub Institute and Department of Neurology, Columbia University Irving 
Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(15)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
Georgia, USA.
(16)Nantz National Alzheimer Center, Houston Methodist and Weill Cornell 
Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.
(17)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.
(18)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(19)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(20)Department of Neurology, Alpert Medical School, Brown University, 
Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(21)Department of Neurology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(22)Department of Neurology & Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, California, USA.
(23)Department of Neurology, Georgetown University, Washington, District of 
Columbia, USA.
(24)Department of Neurology and Human Genetics, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(25)Department of Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(26)Medical & Scientific Relations Division, Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.
(27)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Center for Neuroimaging, 
Indiana University School of Medicine Indianapolis, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Early-onset and late-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD and LOAD, 
respectively) have distinct clinical manifestations, with prior work based on 
small samples suggesting unique patterns of neurodegeneration. The current study 
performed a head-to-head comparison of cortical atrophy in EOAD and LOAD, using 
two large and well-characterized cohorts (LEADS and ADNI).
METHODS: We analyzed brain structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data 
acquired from 377 sporadic EOAD patients and 317 sporadicLOAD patients who were 
amyloid positive and had mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or mild dementia (i.e., 
early-stage AD), along with cognitively unimpaired participants.
RESULTS: After controlling for the level of cognitive impairment, we found a 
double dissociation between AD clinical phenotype and localization/magnitude of 
atrophy, characterized by predominant neocortical involvement in EOAD and more 
focal anterior medial temporal involvement in LOAD.
DISCUSSION: Our findings point to the clinical utility of MRI-based biomarkers 
of atrophy in differentiating between EOAD and LOAD, which may be useful for 
diagnosis, prognostication, and treatment.
HIGHLIGHTS: Early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) and late-onset AD (LOAD) 
patients showed distinct and overlapping cortical atrophy patterns. EOAD 
patients showed prominent atrophy in widespread neocortical regions. LOAD 
patients showed prominent atrophy in the anterior medial temporal lobe. Regional 
atrophy was correlated with the severity of global cognitive impairment. Results 
were comparable when the sample was stratified for mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI) and dementia.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14489
PMCID: PMC11851163
PMID: 39968692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


79. Neurophotonics. 2025 Jan;12(1):015010. doi: 10.1117/1.NPh.12.1.015010. Epub
2025  Feb 18.

Quantitative simulation of near-infrared light treatment for Alzheimer's disease 
using patient-individualized optical-parametric phantoms.

Dong S(1)(2)(3), Zhang R(1)(2)(3), Xue J(4), Suo Y(5)(6), Wei X(1)(2)(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)Peking University, Institute of Medical Technology and Cancer Hospital, 
Beijing, China.
(2)Peking University, Institute of Advanced Clinical Medicine, Beijing, China.
(3)Peking University, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Beijing, China.
(4)Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai Medical College, Department of 
Neurosurgery, Shanghai, China.
(5)Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Liangzhu Laboratory, Hangzhou, China.
(6)Healthy Life Innovation Medical Technology Co., Ltd, Wuxi, China.
(7)Peking University International Cancer Institute, Beijing, China.

SIGNIFICANCE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a brain disorder characterized by its 
multifactorial nature and complex pathogenesis, highlighting the necessity for 
multimodal and individualized interventions. Among emerging therapies, 
near-infrared (NIR) light treatment shows promise as a therapeutic modality for 
AD. However, existing clinical studies lack sufficient data on light dosimetry, 
parameter optimization, and dose-response.
AIM: A versatile framework was developed to enable patient-individualized Monte 
Carlo simulation. A standardized dataset was established, including digital 
phantoms derived from 20 AD patients who received NIR light treatment.
APPROACH: The phantoms were synthesized and mapped with multispectral optical 
parameters, integrating cortical parcellation, subcortical segmentation, and 
sparse annotation. Structure-related light fluence pathways and dose-response 
relationships were elucidated using simulation results and cognitive/functional 
assessments.
RESULTS: The capability for enhancing simulation fidelity and exploring 
dose-response relationships was verified using standard templates and clinical 
data. Linear independence was identified between changes in activities of daily 
living scale scores and energy deposition in gray matter.
CONCLUSIONS: The framework offers a solution toward dose-response analysis, 
parameter optimization, and safety control in the clinical translation for 
multiple treatment paradigms, demonstrating promise for individualized, 
standardized, and precise intervention planning.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1117/1.NPh.12.1.015010
PMCID: PMC11833699
PMID: 39968373


80. Aging Med (Milton). 2025 Feb 18;8(1):e70004. doi: 10.1002/agm2.70004. 
eCollection 2025 Feb.

Effect of Steroids on the Progression of Alzheimer's Dementia: A Retrospective 
Chart Review.

Conic JZ(1), Chetty A(2), Chen L(2), Marsh A(2), Barry S(3), Pattabhi R(1), 
Reske T(4), Aguilar E(1)(3), Ali L(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Geriatric Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, LSU Health 
Sciences Center School of Medicine in New Orleans New Orleans Louisiana USA.
(2)Section of General Internal Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, LSU 
Health Sciences Center School of Medicine in New Orleans New Orleans Louisiana 
USA.
(3)Section of Nephrology and Hypertension, Department of Internal Medicine, LSU 
Health Sciences Center School of Medicine in New Orleans New Orleans Louisiana 
USA.
(4)Section of Geriatric Medicine and Hematology/Oncology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, LSU Health Sciences Center School of Medicine in New Orleans New 
Orleans Louisiana USA.

OBJECTIVES: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent age-related 
neurodegenerative disease that affects millions of individuals in the United 
States. Neuroinflammation is a driver of the neurodegenerative changes that 
characterize AD, prompting interest in how inflammation can be modulated for 
treatment and prevention.
METHODS: ICD-10 codes were quarried from electronic medical records to identify 
patients diagnosed with AD from 2012 to 2020. The patients were then divided 
into those who used systemic steroids and those who did not before the 
progression of their disease. Data on medication prescribed was used to measure 
the disease's progression. Clinical findings and laboratory results were 
collected to build a propensity score. Patients were followed until disease 
progression, death, or the last available visit. Kaplan-Meier curves and hazard 
ratios adjusted for the propensity score were used to compare the two groups.
RESULTS: Of the 459 patients identified, 77 were included in the study, and 13 
used steroids. Of the 77 patients included in the study, 59 had progression of 
their disease, and of those, five used steroids. The median time to progression 
was 408.00 (191.00, 979.00) days for the overall sample. The hazard ratio (HR) 
comparing the group using steroids to those not using steroids was 0.26 with a 
95% CI of (0.1013, 0.673) and a p value of 0.00064.
CONCLUSIONS: In our study, steroid use delayed the progression of dementia. 
Further study is needed to outline how steroids and anti-inflammatory 
medications can be used in the treatment and prevention of AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Aging Medicine published by Beijing Hospital and John 
Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/agm2.70004
PMCID: PMC11833297
PMID: 39968005

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


81. Front Neurosci. 2025 Feb 4;19:1475376. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1475376. 
eCollection 2025.

Hyperthermia and targeting heat shock proteins: innovative approaches for 
neurodegenerative disorders and Long COVID.

Smadja DM(1)(2), Abreu MM(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Paris Cité University, INSERM, Paris Cardiovascular Research Centre, Team 
Endotheliopathy and Hemostasis Disorders, Paris, France.
(2)Hematology Department, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, Assistance Publique 
Hôpitaux de Paris-Centre Université Paris Cité (APHP-CUP), Paris, France.
(3)BTT Medical Institute, Aventura, FL, United States.
(4)BTT Engineering Department, Aventura, FL, United States.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) and Long COVID represent critical and growing 
global health challenges, characterized by complex pathophysiological mechanisms 
including neuronal deterioration, protein misfolding, and persistent 
neuroinflammation. The emergence of innovative therapeutic approaches, such as 
whole-body hyperthermia (WBH), offers promising potential to modulate underlying 
pathophysiological mechanisms in NDs and related conditions like Long COVID. 
WBH, particularly in fever-range, enhances mitochondrial function, induces heat 
shock proteins (HSPs), and modulates neuroinflammation-benefits that 
pharmacological treatments often struggle to replicate. HSPs such as HSP70 and 
HSP90 play pivotal roles in protein folding, aggregation prevention, and 
cellular protection, directly targeting pathological processes seen in NDs like 
Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's disease. Preliminary findings also 
suggest WBH's potential to alleviate neurological symptoms in Long COVID, where 
persistent neuroinflammation and serotonin dysregulation are prominent. Despite 
the absence of robust clinical trials, the therapeutic implications of WBH 
extend to immune modulation and the restoration of disrupted physiological 
pathways. However, the dual nature of hyperthermia's effects-balancing 
pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory responses-emphasizes the need for 
dose-controlled applications and stringent patient monitoring to minimize risks 
in vulnerable populations. While WBH shows potential interest, significant 
challenges remain. These include individual variability in response, limited 
accessibility to advanced hyperthermia technologies, and the need for 
standardized clinical protocols. Future research must focus on targeted clinical 
trials, biomarker identification, and personalized treatment strategies to 
optimize WBH's efficacy in NDs and Long COVID. The integration of WBH into 
therapeutic paradigms could mark a transformative step in addressing these 
complex conditions.

Copyright © 2025 Smadja and Abreu.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1475376
PMCID: PMC11832498
PMID: 39967803

Conflict of interest statement: MA is founder of BTT medical center. MA is 
practicing HT however all interpretations and conclusions were drawn 
independently to ensure objective analysis. The remaining author declares that 
the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


82. Front Neurosci. 2025 Feb 4;19:1543826. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1543826. 
eCollection 2025.

Alzheimer's disease and gut-brain axis: Drosophila melanogaster as a model.

Alves SM(1), Lisboa-Filho PN(2), Zilli Vieira CL(3), Piacenti-Silva M(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biosciences of Botucatu, Campus Botucatu, São Paulo State 
University (UNESP), Botucatu, SP, Brazil.
(2)School of Sciences, Campus Bauru, São Paulo State University (UNESP), Bauru, 
SP, Brazil.
(3)Harvard T. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, MA, 
United States.

Research indicates that by 2050, more than 150 million people will be living 
with Alzheimer's disease (AD), a condition associated with neurodegeneration due 
to the accumulation of amyloid-beta and tau proteins. In addition to genetic 
background, endocrine disruption, and cellular senescence, management of the gut 
microbiota has emerged as a key element in the diagnosis, progression, and 
treatment of AD, as certain bacterial metabolites can travel through the 
bloodstream and cross the blood-brain barrier. This mini-review explores the 
relationship between tau protein accumulation and gut dysbiosis in Drosophila 
melanogaster. This model facilitates the investigation of how gut-derived 
metabolites contribute to neurocognitive impairment and dementia. Understanding 
the role of direct and indirect bacterial by-products, such as lactate and 
acetate, in glial cell activation and tau protein dynamics may provide insights 
into the mechanisms of AD progression and contribute to more effective 
treatments. Here we discuss how the simplicity and extensive genetic tools of 
Drosophila make it a valuable model for studying these interactions and testing 
potential therapeutics, including probiotics. Integrating Drosophila studies 
with other established models may reveal conserved pathways and accelerate the 
translation of findings into clinical applications.

Copyright © 2025 Alves, Lisboa-Filho, Zilli Vieira and Piacenti-Silva.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2025.1543826
PMCID: PMC11832644
PMID: 39967802

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


83. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2025 Jan 24;16(2):294-300. doi: 
10.1021/acsmedchemlett.4c00530. eCollection 2025 Feb 13.

Protection against Amyloid-β Aggregation and Ferroptosis/Oxytosis Toxicity by 
Arylpyrazolones: Alzheimer's Disease Therapeutics.

Soares P(1), Rahaman M(1), Maher P(2), Silverman RB(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Chemistry of Life Processes Institute, and Center 
for Developmental Therapeutics, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 
60208, United States.
(2)Cellular Neurobiology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 
10010 N. Torrey Pines Rd., La Jolla, California 92037, United States.
(3)Department of Molecular Biosciences, Northwestern University, Evanston, 
Illinois 60208, United States.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, Illinois 60611, United States.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) incurs heavy costs for both the population and health 
systems. Nevertheless, the drugs available only provide minimal symptomatic 
management without much impact on the patients' quality of life. The 
multifactorial character of AD suggests that the development of new therapies 
modulating multiple biological targets contributing to disease progression will 
more efficiently treat the disease. The success of therapies targeting 
amyloid-beta oligomers suggests this is a valid approach for the development of 
more efficacious therapies for AD. Here, we report the design and evaluation of 
a series of arylpyrazolone compounds for their activity against Aβ aggregation 
toxicity and oxidative stress. The lead compound (1) has an EC50 value of 270 
nM, good blood-brain barrier permeation in vivo and promising bioavailability. 
This study demonstrates the potential of these arylpyrazolones as novel, and 
potentially more effective, multifactorial therapies for AD.

© 2025 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsmedchemlett.4c00530
PMCID: PMC11831554
PMID: 39967645

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


84. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2025 Jan 27;16(2):204-206. doi: 
10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00026. eCollection 2025 Feb 13.

Receptor-Interacting Protein Kinase 1 (RIPK1) Inhibitors as Potential Treatment 
for Several Inflammatory and Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Abdel-Magid AF(1).

Author information:
(1)PI Health Sciences, 100 Jade Park, Chelsea, Alabama 35043, United States.

The invention in this patent application relates to 
2-amino-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-a]pyridin derivatives represented generally herein 
as formula 1. These compounds have activities as receptor-interacting protein 
kinase 1 (RIPK1) inhibitors and may potentially provide treatment and/or 
prophylaxis of inflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases associated with 
aberrant RIPK1 activity such as ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, psoriasis, 
NASH, heart failure, multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), 
and Alzheimer's disease.

Published 2025 by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00026
PMCID: PMC11831378
PMID: 39967643

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no competing financial 
interest.


85. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2025 Jan 25;16(2):210-212. doi: 
10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00024. eCollection 2025 Feb 13.

Potential of Histone Deacetylase 6 Inhibitors as a Treatment of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Abdel-Magid AF(1).

Author information:
(1)PI Health Sciences, 100 Jade Park, Chelsea, Alabama 35043, United States.

The invention in this patent application relates to 
2-substituted-6-(5-(difluoromethyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-yl)isoindolin-1-one 
derivatives represented herein by formula 1. These compounds possess HDAC6 
inhibitory activity and may be useful for the treatment of central nervous 
system diseases including neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease 
and progressive supranuclear palsy.

Published 2025 by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00024
PMCID: PMC11831376
PMID: 39967628

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no competing financial 
interest.


86. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Feb 18;17(1):46. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01684-z.

Sex differences in the association of Alzheimer's disease biomarkers and 
cognition in a multicenter memory clinic study.

Boccalini C(1), Peretti DE(1), Scheffler M(2), Mu L(3), Griffa A(4)(5), Testart 
N(6), Allali G(4), Prior JO(6), Ashton NJ(7)(8)(9)(10), Zetterberg 
H(10)(11)(12)(13)(14)(15), Blennow K(8)(13)(16)(17), Frisoni GB(18), Garibotto 
V(19)(20)(21).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers (NIMTlab), 
Faculty of Medicine, Geneva University Neurocenter, University of Geneva, Rue 
Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 4, Geneva, CH-1205, Switzerland.
(2)Division of Radiology, Geneva University Hospitals, Rue 
Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 4, Geneva, CH-1205, Switzerland.
(3)Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, ETH Zurich, Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 1-5/10, 
Zurich, 8049, Switzerland.
(4)Leenaards Memory Center, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Lausanne 
University Hospital and University of Lausanne, Chem. de Mont-Paisible 16, 
Lausanne, 1011, Switzerland.
(5)Medical Image Processing Laboratory, Neuro-X Institute, École Polytechnique 
Fédérale De Lausanne- EPFL, Campus Biotech H4 Chemin des Mines 9, Geneva, 
CH-1202, Switzerland.
(6)Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Lausanne University Hospital, Rue du 
Bugnon 46, Lausanne, 1005, Switzerland.
(7)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Armauer 
Hansens vei 30, Stavanger, 4011, Norway.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, 
Wallinsgatan 6, Mölndal, S-431 80, Sweden.
(9)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, 
Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute, London, SE5 9RX, UK.
(10)UK NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health & Biomedical Research 
Unit for Dementia at South London & Maudsley NHS Foundation, London, SE5 8AF, 
UK.
(11)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, WC1E 6BT, UK.
(12)UK Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, 
London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(13)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Klin 
Neurokemi Lab Hus V3, SU/Mölndals sjukhus, Mölndal S-431 80, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(14)Hong Kong Centre for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong 
Units, Hong Kong, 1501-1502, 1512-1518, China.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Centre, University of Wisconsin, 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, 53792, USA.
(16)Pitié Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Sorbonne University, 
47 Bd de l'Hôpital, Paris, 75013, France.
(17)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Centre, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, 230001, China.
(18)Geneva Memory Center, Geneva University Hospitals, Rue 
Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 4, Geneva, CH-1205, Switzerland.
(19)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers (NIMTlab), 
Faculty of Medicine, Geneva University Neurocenter, University of Geneva, Rue 
Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 4, Geneva, CH-1205, Switzerland. 
valentina.garibotto@hug.ch.
(20)Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Geneva University 
Hospitals, Rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 4, Geneva, CH-1205, Switzerland. 
valentina.garibotto@hug.ch.
(21)CIBM Center for Biomedical Imaging, EPFL AVP CP CIBM Station 6, Lausanne, 
1015, Switzerland. valentina.garibotto@hug.ch.

BACKGROUND: This study investigated sex differences in the associations between 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarkers, cognitive performance, and decline in 
memory clinic settings.
METHODS: 249 participants (females/males:123/126), who underwent tau-PET, 
amyloid-PET, structural MRI, and plasma glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) 
measurement were included from Geneva and Lausanne Memory Clinics. Mann-Whitney 
U tests investigated sex differences in clinical and biomarker data. Linear 
regression models estimated the moderating effect of sex on the relationship 
between biomarkers and cognitive performance and decline. Sex differences in 
cognitive decline were further evaluated using longitudinal linear mixed-effect 
models with three-way interaction effects.
RESULTS: Women and men present similar clinical features, amyloid, and 
neurodegeneration. Women had higher tau load and plasma levels of GFAP than men 
(p < 0.05). Tau associations with amyloid (standardized β = 0.54,p < 0.001), 
neurodegeneration (standardized β=-0.44,p < 0.001), and cognition (standardized 
β=-0.48,p < 0.001) were moderated by a significant interaction with sex. 
Specifically, the association between amyloid and tau was stronger among women 
than men (standardized β=-0.19,p = 0.047), whereas the associations between tau 
and cognition and between tau and neurodegeneration were stronger among men than 
in women (standardized β=-0.76,p = 0.001 and standardized β=-0.56,p = 0.044). 
Women exhibited faster cognitive decline than men in the presence of severe 
cortical thinning (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Women showed higher tau load and stronger association between 
amyloid and tau than men. In individuals with high tau burden, men exhibited 
greater neurodegeneration and cognitive impairment than women. These findings 
support that sex differences may impact tau deposition through an upstream 
interplay with amyloid, leading to downstream effects on neurodegeneration and 
cognitive outcomes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01684-z
PMCID: PMC11837373
PMID: 39966925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent to participate: The local 
Ethics Committee approved the imaging studies, which have been conducted under 
the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and the International Conference 
on Harmonization Good Clinical Practice. Each subject or their relatives 
provided voluntary written informed consent to participate in the studies. 
Competing interests: VG received research support and speaker fees through her 
institution from Healthcare, Siemens Healthineers, Novo Nordisk. Janssen and 
Novartis. GBF has received support, payment, consulting fees, or honoraria 
through his institution for lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educations events from: Biogen, Roche, Diadem, Novo Nordisk, GE 
Healthcare, OM Pharma, and Eisai. GA has served at scientific advisory boards 
and consultants for Roche and Lilly and received honoraria for lectures from 
Lilly and Schwabe Pharma. HZ has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as 
a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
KB has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for Acumen, ALZPath, 
BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Julius Clinical, Lilly, Novartis, Ono Pharma, 
Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data 
monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, 
produced educational materials, and participated in educational programs for 
Biogen, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program, outside the work presented in this article. The other authors have no 
conflicts of interest to disclose.


87. Mol Med. 2025 Feb 18;31(1):61. doi: 10.1186/s10020-025-01101-z.

Type 3 diabetes and metabolic reprogramming of brain neurons: causes 
and therapeutic strategies.

Meng X(1), Zhang H(2), Zhao Z(1), Li S(1), Zhang X(1), Guo R(1), Liu H(1), Yuan 
Y(1), Li W(1), Song Q(1), Liu J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology, School of Public Health, Jilin University, 
Changchun, 130021, China.
(2)Institute of Agricultural Quality Standard and Testing Technology, Jilin 
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Changchun, 130021, China.
(3)Department of Toxicology, School of Public Health, Jilin University, 
Changchun, 130021, China. jy_liu@jlu.edu.cn.

Abnormal glucose metabolism inevitably disrupts normal neuronal function, a 
phenomenon widely observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Investigating the 
mechanisms of metabolic adaptation during disease progression has become a 
central focus of research. Considering that impaired glucose metabolism is 
closely related to decreased insulin signaling and insulin resistance, a new 
concept "type 3 diabetes mellitus (T3DM)" has been coined. T3DM specifically 
refers to the brain's neurons becoming unresponsive to insulin, underscoring the 
strong link between diabetes and AD. Recent studies reveal that during brain 
insulin resistance, neurons exhibit mitochondrial dysfunction, reduced glucose 
metabolism, and elevated lactate levels. These findings suggest that impaired 
insulin signaling caused by T3DM may lead to a compensatory metabolic shift in 
neurons toward glycolysis. Consequently, this review aims to explore the 
underlying causes of T3DM and elucidate how insulin resistance drives metabolic 
reprogramming in neurons during AD progression. Additionally, it highlights 
therapeutic strategies targeting insulin sensitivity and mitochondrial function 
as promising avenues for the successful development of AD treatments.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s10020-025-01101-z
PMCID: PMC11834690
PMID: 39966707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: All the authors approved 
the final version of the manuscript. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


88. Mol Psychiatry. 2025 Apr;30(4):1652-1675. doi: 10.1038/s41380-025-02925-1.
Epub  2025 Feb 17.

Circular RNAs in neurological conditions - computational identification, 
functional validation, and potential clinical applications.

Hatzimanolis O(1), Sykes AM(1), Cristino AS(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biomedicine and Glycomics, Griffith University, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.
(2)Institute for Biomedicine and Glycomics, Griffith University, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia. a.cristino@griffith.edu.au.

Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) have gained significant attention in recent years due 
to advancements in biotechnology, particularly high-throughput total RNA 
sequencing. These developments have led to new understandings of non-coding 
biology, revealing that approximately 80% of non-coding regions in the genome 
possesses biochemical functionality. Among ncRNAs, circular RNAs (circRNAs), 
first identified in 1976, have emerged as a prominent research field. CircRNAs 
are abundant in most human cell types, evolutionary conserved, highly stable, 
and formed by back-splicing events which generate covalently closed ends. 
Notably, circRNAs exhibit high expression levels in neural tissue and perform 
diverse biochemical functions, including acting as molecular sponges for 
microRNAs, interacting with RNA-binding proteins to regulate their availability 
and activity, modulating transcription and splicing, and even translating into 
functional peptides in some cases. Recent advancements in computational and 
experimental methods have enhanced our ability to identify and validate 
circRNAs, providing valuable insights into their biological roles. This review 
focuses on recent developments in circRNA research as they related to 
neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative conditions. We also explore their 
potential applications in clinical diagnostics, therapeutics, and future 
research directions. CircRNAs remain a relatively underexplored area of 
non-coding biology, particularly in the context of neurological disorders. 
However, emerging evidence supports their role as critical players in the 
etiology and molecular mechanisms of conditions such as schizophrenia, bipolar 
disorder, major depressive disorder, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's 
disease. These findings suggest that circRNAs may provide a novel framework 
contributing to the molecular dysfunctions underpinning these complex 
neurological conditions.

© 2025. Crown.

DOI: 10.1038/s41380-025-02925-1
PMCID: PMC11919710
PMID: 39966624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


89. Sci Rep. 2025 Feb 18;15(1):5829. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-88380-y.

Aβ(42) induces stress granule formation via PACT/PKR pathway.

Ramasamy VS(1), Nathan ABP(2), Choi MC(3), Kim SH(4), Ohn T(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, College of Medicine, Chosun 
University, Gwangju, 61452, Republic of Korea. vijaysankarr@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chonnam National University, Gwangju, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, College of Medicine, Chosun 
University, Gwangju, 61452, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Animal Science, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, 
Chonnam National University, Gwangju, 61186, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, College of Medicine, Chosun 
University, Gwangju, 61452, Republic of Korea. tohn@chosun.ac.kr.

Stress granule (SG) formation has been linked to several neurodegenerative 
disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid-β42 (Aβ42) is a key player 
in the pathogenesis of AD and is known to trigger various stress-related 
signaling pathways. However, the impact of Aβ on SG formation has not been fully 
understood. The primary aim of this study is to analyze the SG-inducing 
properties of Aβ42 and to uncover the molecular mechanisms underlying this 
process. Our results revealed that exposure to 20 μM Aβ42 led to a significant 
SG formation in neuroblastoma-derived (SH-SY5Y) and glioma-derived (U87) cell 
lines. Interestingly, we observed elevated levels of p-eIF2α, while overall 
protein translation levels remained unchanged. Monomeric and oligomeric forms of 
Aβ42 exhibited a 4-5 times stronger ability to induce SG formation compared to 
fibrillar forms. Additionally, treatment with familial mutants of Aβ42 (Dutch 
and Flemish) showed distinct effects on SG induction. Moreover, our findings 
using eIF2α kinases knockout (KO) cell lines demonstrated that Aβ-induced SG 
formation is primarily dependent on Protein Kinase R (PKR). Subsequent proximity 
ligation assay (PLA) analysis revealed a close proximity of PACT and PKR in 
Aβ-treated cells and in AD mouse hippocampus. Taken together, our study suggests 
that Aβ42 promotes SG formation through PKR kinase activation, which in turn 
requires PACT involvement.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-88380-y
PMCID: PMC11836309
PMID: 39966464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


90. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2025;24(8):594-609. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273335978250127070434.

A Review on Nanotechnology based In Situ Gelling System as a Reliable Weapon for 
Targeting Alzheimer's Disease via Intranasal Route.

Deorankar P(1)(2), Minglani VV(2), Prajapati BG(3), Patel MB(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Rajmata Jijau Shikshan Prasarak Mandal's, 
College of Pharmacy, Dudulgaon, Pune, 412105, Maharashtra, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, Parul University Vadodara, 
Vadodara, 391760, Gujarat, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, Shree S.K. Patel College of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research, Ganpat University, Mehsana, 384012, Gujarat, India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, and 
Research & Development Cell, Parul University, Waghodia, Vadodara, 391760, 
Gujarat, India.

A recent World Health Organization report claims that along with the growing 
world population and emerging life prospects, the prevalence of neurological 
disorders is also increasing. Out of all neurological disorders, Alzheimer's 
disease is the most widespread and alarming concern. The disease poses 
significant therapeutic challenges due to the blood-brain barrier's 
restrictiveness and the lack of effective drug delivery systems. The olfactory 
and trigeminal nerves have direct access to the brain, therefore, intranasal 
drug delivery can be a promising route for the direct delivery of 
anti-Alzheimer's drugs. Despite this advantage, brain targeting is limited 
through this route due to mucociliary clearance. Thus, in situ, nanotechnology 
offers a transformative approach by leveraging the intranasal route to directly 
target the central nervous system. This comprehensive review discusses recent 
advancements, mechanisms, and applications of in situ nanotechnology in 
Alzheimer's disease therapeutics, highlighting its potential to enhance drug 
delivery efficiency, improve bioavailability, and mitigate the progression of 
this debilitating condition. The importance of intranasal drug delivery has been 
emphasized in this review, along with the clear benefits of in situ lipid- based 
nanotechnology for the efficient delivery of medication in targeting Alzheimer's 
disease.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273335978250127070434
PMID: 39966362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Eur J Neurosci. 2025 Feb;61(4):e70023. doi: 10.1111/ejn.70023.

Extremely Low-Frequency and Low-Intensity Electromagnetic Field Technology 
(ELF-EMF) Sculpts Microtubules.

Lobyntseva A(1), Ganaiem M(1), Ivashko-Pachima Y(1), Barnstable CJ(2), Weisinger 
B(3), Parabucki A(3), Segal Y(3), Shohami E(4), Gozes I(1).

Author information:
(1)The Elton Laboratory for Molecular Neuroendocrinology, Department of Human 
Molecular Genetics and Biochemistry, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, 
Sagol School of Neuroscience and Adams Super Center for Brain Studies, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(2)Department of Neural and Behavioral Sciences, Penn State College of Medicine, 
Hershey, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)BrainQ Technologies, Ltd., Jerusalem, Israel.
(4)Institute for Drug Research, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, 
Israel.

Aberrant microtubule dynamics coupled with a reduction in Tau-microtubule 
interaction are at the core of neuronal injuries resulting in microtubule 
disruption and aggregates of abnormally phosphorylated Tau. These pathological 
Tau aggregates define tauopathies such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), as well as 
the pathological sequelae following traumatic brain injury (TBI), stroke and 
spinal cord injury (SCI). We hypothesized that differential applications of 
extremely low-frequency and low-intensity electromagnetic field (ELF-EMF) will 
change microtubule function. To examine our hypothesis, we pre-applied ELF-EMF 
to a neuroblastoma neuronal cell line later exposed to 4 h of zinc intoxication, 
modelling Tau-microtubule dissociation. ELF-EMF (40 Hz and 1 G; multiple 
exposure schedules) enhanced microtubule dynamics and increased Tau-microtubule 
interaction in the face of zinc toxicity. Complementing these preconditioning 
neuroprotective effects, concomitant 1 h treatment protocols comparing 3.9 or 
40 Hz and 1 G exposure, indicated effects on Tau phosphorylation accentuated 
with 40 Hz and reduction in beta tubulin isotypes, depending on electromagnetic 
frequencies, most pronounced at 3.9 Hz. Our results discovered ELF-EMF 
modulation on the microtubule cytoskeleton essential for brain health.

© 2025 The Author(s). European Journal of Neuroscience published by Federation 
of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.70023
PMCID: PMC11835790
PMID: 39966100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.L., M.G. and Y.I‐P. declare no conflict of 
interest. B.W., A.P. and Y.S. are employed by the study funder, BrainQ 
Technologies Ltd. E.S. and Y.S. have an ownership interest in BrainQ 
Technologies Ltd. I.G. serves as the VP Drug Development at ExoNavis 
Therapeutics Ltd.


92. Chem Biodivers. 2025 Jul;22(7):e202402770. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202402770. Epub 
2025 Mar 1.

Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry Profiling of Crateva magna Leaf Lipophilic 
Extract and Evaluation of Its Anti-Alzheimer and Cytotoxic Properties.

Talaat AN(1), Ibrahim N(1), Ayoub IM(1), Labib RM(1), Singab ANB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams University, 
Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Center for Drug Discovery Research and Development, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain 
Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), one of the most common types of dementia, is an urgent 
and growing global challenge. AD pathogenesis is associated with increased 
activity of the acetylcholinesterase enzyme (AChE) and the β-site amyloid 
precursor protein cleaving enzyme (β-secretase, BACE1). This study aimed to 
evaluate the AChE and BACE1 inhibitory activities of the n-hexane soluble 
fraction of Crateva magna leaf extract (CMHF) and its cytotoxic properties 
against cancer and normal cell lines using MTT assay, also this study aimed to 
identify the volatile constituents of CMHF by gas chromatography-mass 
spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis. GC-MS analysis revealed a total of 13 metabolites 
which represent 92.42% of the detected compounds. Phytol was the major 
constituent of CMHF, representing 20.52% followed by (Z, Z, 
Z)-9,12,15-octadecatrienoic acid ethyl ester (19.04%), γ-sitosterol (13.71%), 
hexadecanoic acid ethyl ester (12.63%) and others. CMHF revealed potent AChE and 
BACE1 inhibitory activities with IC50 = 0.114 ± 0.006 and 1.723 ± 0.1 µg/mL, 
respectively. In conclusion, these findings indicate that CMHF may possess 
anti-Alzheimer efficacy. Furthermore, the absence of cytotoxicity against 
HepG-2, HCT-116, MCF-7, and WISH cell lines reinforces its safety profile. 
Therefore, CMHF could be considered as a natural and safe alternative for 
managing AD.

© 2025 Wiley‐VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202402770
PMID: 39966086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;12(4):100088. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100088.  Epub 2025 Feb 17.

Eligibility for donanemab trial in a population-based study of cognitive aging.

Jones KE(1), Aakre JA(2), Castillo AM(2), Ramanan VK(3), Kremers WK(2), Jack CR 
Jr(4), Vemuri P(4), Schwarz CG(4), Lowe VJ(4), Knopman DS(3), Petersen RC(3), 
Graff-Radford J(3), Vassilaki M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Wake Forest 
University, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(2)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(5)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. 
Electronic address: vassilaki.maria@mayo.edu.

The study aimed to assess eligibility for donanemab phase 3 trial in 
participants of the Mayo Clinic Study of Aging with mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI) or mild dementia consistent with Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical 
syndrome, positive brain amyloid burden, and available tau PET. There were 817 
study participants, 60-85 years old, with MCI or dementia consistent with AD 
clinical syndrome. Applying the Mini-Mental State Examination criteria (20 to 
28) and excluding participants with imaging contraindications reduced the sample 
to 769; 275 participants had amyloid PET available, of whom 130 had also tau PET 
at the same visit; 56 participants were amyloid positive, had tau PET available 
at the same visit, and of those, 27 had evidence of tau pathology measured by 
18F-flortaucipir PET imaging. Additional eligibility criteria reduced the 
eligible participants to 23 % (13 out of 56 participants). Neuroimaging 
findings, central nervous system exclusions, and history of malignancy were the 
major exclusions.

Copyright © 2025 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. Note: 
https://www.mayoclinic.org/copyright/. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100088
PMCID: PMC11970969
PMID: 39966022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare the 
following financial interests/personal relationships which may be considered as 
potential competing interests: Maria Vassilaki, Vijay K. Ramanan, Walter K. 
Kremers, Clifford R. Jack Jr, David S. Knopman, Prashanthi Vemuri, Christopher G 
Schwarz, Val J. Lowe, Ronald C. Petersen reports financial support was provided 
by National Institutes of Health. Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company, enabled use of the 18F-flortaucipir 
tracer by providing precursor, but did not provide direct funding and was not 
involved in data analysis or interpretation. Vijay K. Ramanan has received 
research funding from the NIH and the Mangurian Foundation for Lewy Body disease 
research, has provided educational content for Medscape, has received speaker 
and conference session honoraria from the American Academy of Neurology 
Institute, is co-PI for a clinical trial supported by the Alzheimer's 
Association, is site Co-I for the Alzheimer's Clinical Trials Consortium, and is 
a site clinician for clinical trials supported by Eisai, the Alzheimer's 
Treatment and Research Institute at USC, and Transposon Therapeutics, Inc. 
Walter K. Kremers receives research funding from NIH. Clifford R. Jack Jr. has 
no financial conflicts to disclose; he receives research support from NIH and 
the Alexander Family Alzheimer's Disease Research Professorship of the Mayo 
Clinic. David S. Knopman serves on a Data Safety Monitoring Board for the 
Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network Treatment Unit study sponsored by 
Washington University St Louis, and for the SMART-HS clinical trial (Univ of 
Kentucky). He was an investigator in Alzheimer clinical trials sponsored by 
Biogen, Lilly Pharmaceuticals and the University of Southern California, both of 
which have ended, and is currently an investigator in a trial in frontotemporal 
degeneration with Alector. He has served as a consultant for Roche, AriBio, 
Linus Health, Biovie and Alzeca Biosciences but receives no personal 
compensation. He receives funding from the NIH. Prashanthi Vemuri receives 
research funding from NIH. Christopher G Schwarz receives research funding from 
the NIH. Val J. Lowe serves as a consultant for Bayer Schering Pharma, Piramal 
Life Sciences, Life Molecular Imaging, Eisai Inc., AVID Radiopharmaceuticals, 
and Merck Research, and receives research support from GE Healthcare, Siemens 
Molecular Imaging, AVID Radiopharmaceuticals, and the NIH (NIA, NCI). Ronald C. 
Petersen serves as a consultant for Roche, Inc., Genentech, Inc., Eli Lilly and 
Co., Novo Nordisk, Eisai, Inc. (no funding), receives royalties from Oxford 
University Press and UpToDate, contributes to Medscape education and receives 
NIH funding. Jonathan Graff-Radford receives support from the NIH and serves on 
the DSMB for StrokeNET and is an investigator in clinical trials sponsored by 
Esai, Cognition therapeutics, and the Alzheimer's Treatment and Research 
Institute at USC. Maria Vassilaki consulted for F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, 
unrelated to the current study; she receives research funding from NIH and has 
equity ownership in Amgen and Johnson and Johnson. If there are other authors, 
they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


94. Neurotherapeutics. 2025 Apr;22(3):e00553. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00553. 
Epub 2025 Feb 17.

Utilization of precision medicine digital twins for drug discovery in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Ren Y(1), Pieper AA(2), Cheng F(3).

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Genome Center, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, OH 44195, USA; Genomic Medicine Institute, Lerner Research Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 
44106, USA; Brain Health Medicines Center, Harrington Discovery Institute, 
University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA; 
Geriatric Psychiatry, GRECC, Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center, 
Cleveland, OH 44106, USA; Institute for Transformative Molecular Medicine, 
School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland 44106, OH, USA; 
Department of Neurosciences, Case Western Reserve University, School of 
Medicine, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA; Department of Pathology, Case Western 
Reserve University, School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA.
(3)Cleveland Clinic Genome Center, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, OH 44195, USA; Genomic Medicine Institute, Lerner Research Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA; Department of Molecular Medicine, 
Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. Electronic address: chengf@ccf.org.

Erratum in
    Neurotherapeutics. 2025 Sep;22(5):e00628. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00628.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) presents significant challenges in drug discovery and 
development due to its complex and poorly understood pathology and etiology. 
Digital twins (DTs) are recently developed virtual real-time representations of 
physical entities that enable rapid assessment of the bidirectional interaction 
between the virtual and physical domains. With recent advances in artificial 
intelligence (AI) and the growing accumulation of multi-omics and clinical data, 
application of DTs in healthcare is gaining traction. Digital twin technology, 
in the form of multiscale virtual models of patients or organ systems, can track 
health status in real time with continuous feedback, thereby driving model 
updates that enhance clinical decision-making. Here, we posit an additional role 
for DTs in drug discovery, with particular utility for complex diseases like AD. 
In this review, we discuss salient challenges in AD drug development, including 
complex disease pathology and comorbidities, difficulty in early diagnosis, and 
the current high failure rate of clinical trials. We also review DTs and discuss 
potential applications for predicting AD progression, discovering biomarkers, 
identifying new drug targets and opportunities for drug repurposing, 
facilitating clinical trials, and advancing precision medicine. Despite 
significant hurdles in this area, such as integration and standardization of 
dynamic medical data and issues of data security and privacy, DTs represent a 
promising approach for revolutionizing drug discovery in AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00553
PMCID: PMC12047495
PMID: 39965994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


95. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2025 Apr;222:112043. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2025.112043. Epub 2025 Feb 16.

Increased risk of dementia in Type 1 diabetes: A systematic review with 
meta-analysis.

Li L(1), Wong D(1), Fisher CA(2), Conn JJ(3), Wraight PR(4), Davies A(1), Barson 
E(5), Pike KE(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Counselling & Therapy, School of Psychology & 
Public Health, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Department of Psychology, Counselling & Therapy, School of Psychology & 
Public Health, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Australia; Allied Health - 
Psychology, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; The 
Melbourne Clinic, Richmond, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Royal Melbourne Hospital, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Diabetes and Endocrine Service, Royal Women's 
Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Royal Melbourne Hospital, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Department of Medicine, The University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(5)Western Health, Furlong Road, St Albans, Victoria, Australia.
(6)Department of Psychology, Counselling & Therapy, School of Psychology & 
Public Health, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Australia; School of Applied 
Psychology and Griffith Centre for Mental Health, Griffith University, Gold 
Coast Campus, Queensland, Australia. Electronic address: k.pike@griffith.edu.au.

This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to synthesize evidence on the 
association between Type 1 diabetes mellitus (Type 1 diabetes) and dementia 
risk. A systematic search of CINAHL, EMBASE, MEDLINE, PSYCINFO, and Web of 
Science databases identified 19 relevant studies for inclusion. Studies, 
published in English, were assessed for quality using the QUADAS-2 tool, and 
data were extracted for synthesis. A meta-analysis of six studies reporting 
hazard ratios (HR) for dementia risk in individuals with Type 1 diabetes versus 
controls was conducted. The pooled HR for all-cause dementia was 1.50 (95 % CI: 
1.25-1.80, p < 0.001), indicating a 50 % increased risk of dementia in people 
with Type 1 diabetes compared to controls. This review provides robust evidence 
linking Type 1 diabetes to increased dementia risk and highlights the need for 
targeted screening and preventive strategies for this population. Further 
research is necessary to explore the mechanisms underlying the association 
between Type 1 diabetes and dementia.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2025.112043
PMID: 39965720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


96. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 May;305(Pt 2):141136. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.141136. Epub 2025 Feb 16.

Chitosan-coated nanostructured lipid carriers for intranasal delivery of sinapic 
acid in Aβ(1)(-)(42) induced C57BL/6 mice for Alzheimer's disease treatment.

Prabakaran A(1), Rakshit D(2), Patel I(2), Susanna KJ(3), Mishra A(4), 
Radhakrishnanand P(5), Sarma P(6), Alexander A(7).

Author information:
(1)NanoTech Laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutics, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Guwahati, Assam 781101, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Guwahati, Assam 781101, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER), Guwahati, Assam 781101, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Guwahati, Assam 781101, India. 
Electronic address: awanish@niperguwahati.in.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research (NIPER), Guwahati, Assam 781101, India. Electronic 
address: radhakrishna@niperguwahati.in.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) 
Guwahati, Assam 781101, India.
(7)NanoTech Laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutics, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Guwahati, Assam 781101, India. 
Electronic address: amit.alexander@niperguwahati.ac.in.

Sinapic acid (SA) is a plant-derived antioxidant that exhibits neuroprotective 
activity. However, its poor bioavailability in the brain limits its therapeutic 
application in treating Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, the present study 
hypothesizes that coating nanostructured lipid carriers (NLCs) with a biological 
macromolecule like chitosan (CH-SA-NLCs) could enhance the delivery of SA for AD 
treatment. The CH-SA-NLCs were spherical with sizes below 200 nm, confirmed by 
AFM, SEM, and TEM and achieved a sustained drug release of 76.5 % in pH 6.5 
simulated nasal fluid over 24 h. Moreover, the histopathology study confirmed 
the safety of CH-SA-NLCs, validating its suitability for intranasal 
administration. Not only the in vitro sustained drug release closely correlated 
with in vivo pharmacokinetics of CH-SA-NLCs (i.n.), demonstrating a 1.7-fold 
increase in SA's half-life compared to plain SA (i.v.) in plasma but also 
CH-SA-NLCs (i.n.) achieved a superior AUC0-∞ of 7676.32 ± 2738.55 ng/g*h with a 
2.6-fold improved drug targeting efficiency of SA in the brain of BALB/c mice. 
These improvements resulted in significant neuroprotective effects and decreased 
oxidative stress and inflammatory levels in Aβ1-42-induced mice. Overall, the 
study highlights safe and effective intranasal delivery of SA via 
chitosan-coated nanocarrier as a promising AD treatment strategy.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.141136
PMID: 39965691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Amit Alexander has patent sinapic 
acid based intranasal formulations and methods of preparation thereof pending to 
the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research Guwahati, India. 
If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.


97. Neuropeptides. 2025 Mar;110:102505. doi: 10.1016/j.npep.2025.102505. Epub
2025  Feb 13.

Mechanistic role of proteins and peptides in Management of Neurodegenerative 
Disorders.

Awasthi S(1), Tiwari PC(2), Awasthi S(3), Dwivedi A(3), Srivastava S(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacy, Shri Ramswaroop Memorial University, Lucknow-Deva 
Road, Barabanki, Uttar Pradesh 225003, India.
(2)King George's Medical University, Lucknow 226003, India.
(3)Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research, Unnao 209859, India.
(4)Institute of Pharmacy, Shri Ramswaroop Memorial University, Lucknow-Deva 
Road, Barabanki, Uttar Pradesh 225003, India. Electronic address: 
shikha_ceutics@yahoo.co.in.

Proteins and peptides have emerged as significant contributors in the management 
of neurodegenerative disorders due to their diverse biological functions. These 
biomolecules influence various cellular processes, including cellular repair, 
inflammation reduction, and neuronal survival, which are crucial for mitigating 
the effects of diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Amyotrophic 
Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). By interacting with specific cellular receptors, 
proteins and peptides like neurotrophic factors, cytokines, and enzyme 
inhibitors promote neurogenesis, reduce oxidative stress, and enhance synaptic 
plasticity. Nevertheless, till certain limitations and challenges do exist to 
deliver these fragile therapeutic bioactives. Moreover, targeted delivery 
systems, such as nanoparticles and biomolecular carriers, are being developed to 
improve the bioavailability and specificity of these protein-based therapeutics, 
ensuring efficient crossing of the blood-brain barrier. This review explores the 
mechanistic pathways through which these biomolecules act, emphasizing their 
potential to modify disease progression and improve the quality of life in 
patients with neurodegenerative conditions. Overall, proteins and peptides are 
not only seen as promising therapeutic agents but also as foundational tools in 
advancing personalized medicine in the field of neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.npep.2025.102505
PMID: 39965449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Aging Dis. 2025 Feb 6. doi: 10.14336/AD.2024.1432. Online ahead of print.

Profile for Brain Disease Research Infrastructure for Data Gathering and 
Exploration (BRIDGE) Platform.

Oh S(1)(2), Sohn HY(3), Seo J(1)(2), Kang E(2), Park JK(3), Moon SY(4), Kim 
HJ(5), Jung NY(6), Lee SM(4), Cheon BK(7)(8), Jang H(9), Kang SH(10), Kang 
S(11), Choi KY(11), Yoo SW(12), Kim YJ(13)(14), Cho J(1)(2), Kim EJ(15), Seo 
SW(5)(7)(8), Lee KH(11)(16)(17), Kim JS(12), Koh YH(3), Kim CH(18), Kwon M(3), 
Kang D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Research Design and Evaluation, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Center for Clinical Epidemiology, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Chronic Disease Convergence Research, Division of Brain Disease 
Research, Korea National Institute of Health, Cheongju, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Neurology, Pusan National University Yangsan Hospital, Pusan 
National University School of Medicine, Yangsan, Korea.
(7)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Seoul, Korea.
(8)Neuroscience Center, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(9)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(10)Department of Neurology, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(11)Gwangju Alzheimer's disease and Related Dementia Cohort Research Center, 
Chosun University, Gwangju, Korea.
(12)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(13)Department of Neurology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.
(14)Department of Neurology, Yongin Severance Hospital, Yonsei University Health 
System, Yongin, Korea.
(15)Department of Neurology, Pusan National University Hospital, Pusan National 
University School of Medicine and Medical Research Institute, Busan, Korea.
(16)Department of Biomedical Science, Chosun University, Gwangju, Korea.
(17)Department of Neural Development and Disease, Korea Brain Research 
Institute, Daegu, Korea.
(18)Department of Neurology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, Korea.

Brain diseases complexity have necessitated advanced research platforms for 
better understanding, treatment, and prevention strategies. However, existing 
brain disease registries face limitations such as incomplete variable sets, lack 
of standardization, insufficient linkage to external databases, absence of 
integrated platforms for comprehensive data collection, and lack of continuity. 
To address these challenges, the Korea National Institute of Health initiated 
the Brain disease Research Infrastructure for Data Gathering and Exploration 
(BRIDGE), a national prospective platform designed to overcome the shortcomings 
of current registries. The BRIDGE platform includes a Longitudinal Study of 
Early onset dementia And Family members (LEAF) cohort, a Longitudinal/cohort 
Study of Patients with Late Onset Dementia (LLOD) cohort, a community-based 
cohort study of High-risk individuals for Dementia (COHD) cohort, and a 
Longitudinal Study of Patients with Parkinson's Disease (LoPD) cohort. The 
standardized variables included sociodemographic variables, health behaviors, 
medical history, activities of daily living, behavioral, and psychological 
problems, cognitive function, disease-related symptoms, quality of life (QoL), 
sleep, depression scale, caregiver burden, physical health, blood tests, 
olfactory function testing, orthostatic blood pressure changes, genetic testing, 
nerve conduction studies, and neuroimaging. In addition, the BRIDGE platform 
will be linked to the Korean National Health Insurance Service (K-NHIS) 
database. By addressing gaps in data collection, standardization, and 
considering a wide range of impacts, the BRIDGE database offers new pathways for 
understanding and combating complex brain conditions. As the project progresses, 
it has the potential to significantly influence scientific understanding and 
policymaking in the field of brain health.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2024.1432
PMID: 39965244


99. J Med Internet Res. 2025 Feb 18;27:e55468. doi: 10.2196/55468.

Traversing Shifting Sands-the Challenges of Caring for Someone With Alzheimer's 
Disease and the Impact on Care Partners: Social Media Content Analysis.

Frederiksen KS(1)(2), Hahn-Pedersen J(3), Crawford R(4), Morrison R(4), Jeppesen 
R(3), Doward L(4), Weidner W(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Danish Dementia Research Centre, Copenhagen 
University Hospital, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Novo Nordisk A/S, Soeborg, Denmark.
(4)RTI Health Solutions, Manchester, United Kingdom.
(5)Alzheimer's Disease International, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Social media data provide a valuable opportunity to explore the 
effects that Alzheimer disease (AD) has on care partners, including the aspects 
of providing care that have the greatest impacts on their lives and well-being 
and their priorities for their loved ones' treatment.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this social media review was to gain insight into 
the impact of caring for someone with AD, focusing particularly on impacts on 
psychological and emotional well-being, social functioning, daily life and 
ability to work, health-related quality of life, social functioning, and 
relationships.
METHODS: We reviewed social media posts from 4 sources-YouTube (Google), 
Alzheimer's Association, Alzheimer Society of Canada, and Dementia UK-to gain 
insights into the impact of AD on care partners. English-language posts uploaded 
between May 2011 and May 2021 that discussed the impact of AD on care partners 
were included and analyzed thematically.
RESULTS: Of the 279 posts identified, 55 posts, shared by 70 contributors (4 
people living with AD and 66 care partners or family members), met the review 
criteria. The top 3 reported or observed impacts of AD discussed by contributors 
were psychological and emotional well-being (53/70, 76%), social life and 
relationships (37/70, 53%), and care partner overall health-related quality of 
life (27/70, 39%). An important theme that emerged was the emotional distress 
and sadness (24/70, 34%) associated with the care partners' experience of 
"living bereavement" or "anticipatory grief." Contributors also reported impacts 
on care partners' daily life (9/70, 13%) and work and employment (8/70, 11%). 
Care partners' emotional distress was also exacerbated by loved ones' AD-related 
symptoms (eg, altered behavior and memory loss). Caregiving had long-term 
consequences for care partners, including diminished personal well-being, family 
and personal sacrifices, loss of employment, and unanticipated financial 
burdens.
CONCLUSIONS: Insights from social media emphasized the psychological, emotional, 
professional, and financial impacts on individuals providing informal care for a 
person with AD and the need for improved care partner support. A comprehensive 
understanding of care partners' experiences is needed to capture the true impact 
of AD.

©Kristian Steen Frederiksen, Julie Hahn-Pedersen, Rebecca Crawford, Ross 
Morrison, Rose Jeppesen, Lynda Doward, Wendy Weidner. Originally published in 
the Journal of Medical Internet Research (https://www.jmir.org), 18.02.2025.

DOI: 10.2196/55468
PMCID: PMC11888061
PMID: 39965199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: This study was funded 
under a research contract between Novo Nordisk and RTI Health Solutions and was 
funded by Novo Nordisk. JH-P and RJ are employees of Novo Nordisk, the sponsor 
of this study. RC and LD are employees of RTI Health Solutions; RM was an 
employee of RTI Health Solutions at the time of the study. KSF serves on an 
advisory board for Novo Nordisk, for which he receives no personal remuneration. 
WW plays an occasional advisory role for Novo Nordisk, for which she receives no 
personal remuneration.


100. CNS Spectr. 2025 Feb 18;30(1):e23. doi: 10.1017/S1092852925000124.

The effect of glucagon-like peptide-1 and glucose dependent insulinotropic 
polypeptide receptor agonists on neurogenesis, differentiation, and plasticity 
(Neuro-GDP): potential mechanistically informed therapeutics in the treatment 
and prevention of mental disorders.

McIntyre RS(1), Rasgon N(2), Goldberg J(3), Wong S(4)(5)(6), Le GH(4)(6), Mansur 
RB(1)(6), Rosenblat JD(1), Teopiz KM(4), Stahl SM(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford School of 
Medicine, Rockefeller University.
(3)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY.
(4)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Canada.
(5)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Canada.
(6)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, University of California 
Riverside.

Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide 
(GIP) receptor agonists (RAs) mimic naturally occurring GLP-1 and GIP and are 
highly effective anti-diabetic and anti-obesity agents. In addition to their 
robust acute and long-term effects on weight, metabolism, and blood pressure, 
these agents also reduce cardiovascular mortality as well as stroke risk and 
associated consequences. A replicated and convergent body of preclinical 
evidence also indicates that incretin receptor agonists activate molecular 
effectors critical to neuroplasticity, neuroprotection, and anti-apoptosis. 
Herein, we propose that GLP-1 RAs and GIP RAs are promising transdiagnostic 
mechanistically informed therapeutics in the treatment and prevention of 
multiple domains of psychopathology, including general cognitive, reward, and 
motivation systems and mental disorders. Major neurocognitive disorders (eg, 
Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease), alcohol and substance use disorders, 
traumatic brain injury, and depressive disorders are near-term therapeutic 
targets. In addition, GLP-1 RAs and GIP RAs have robust effects on comorbidities 
that differentially affect persons with mental disorders (eg, cardiovascular, 
cerebrovascular, and metabolic disorders) and psychotropic drug-related weight 
gain.

DOI: 10.1017/S1092852925000124
PMID: 39964126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]