1. Saudi Med J. 2025 Mar;46(3):244-253. doi: 10.15537/smj.2025.46.3.20240778.

The prevalence of Alzheimer's disease among diabetic patients in Saudi Arabia.

Alqudah AS(1), Abaalkhail NS(1), Alturki AS(1), Naseer YS(1), Almansour SK(1).

Author information:
(1)From the College of Business Administration (Alqudah), King Faisal 
University, from the College of Food and Agriculture Sciences (Abaalkhail); from 
the College of Applied Medical Science (Naseer); from the Department of Public 
Health (Almansour), King Saud University, from the Department of Food Science 
and Nutrition (Abaalkhail), Chamber of Commerce, from the Department of Nursing 
(Alturki), Prince Sultan Military Medical City, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 
and from the College Public Health (Almansour), Alcalá University, Alcalá, 
Spain.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the knowledge of Alzheimer's disease (AD) among 228 
Saudi adults with diabetes, aiming to assess cognitive awareness through a 
questionnaire. It explores risk factors, symptoms, prevention strategies, and 
attitudes towards dementia, while integrating demographic data to illuminate 
cognitive landscapes and correlations between diabetes and cognitive health.
METHODS: Trained dietitians administered questionnaires to 228 adult Saudi 
diabetic participants, focusing on their understanding of AD across various 
domains. The study employed validated tools for data collection and amalgamated 
responses with demographic and medical details.
RESULTS: Of the 228 participants, 56.6% were female. Findings revealed a high 
acknowledgment of 3 subdomains of the Alzheimer's disease knowledge scale (ADKS) 
- risk factors, course, and diagnosis - with 75% agreement. However, lower 
acknowledgment rates with agreements were observed in the domains of life impact 
(71%), symptoms (71%), caregiving (72%), and treatment management (69%). 
Statistical analysis indicated significant differences in knowledge based on 
education levels (p≤0.05), with university-educated individuals demonstrating 
greater agreement across all ADKS subdomains.
CONCLUSION: The research highlights the need for enhanced awareness of AD among 
Saudi diabetic individuals. By integrating healthcare, education, and culturally 
sensitive interventions, the study advocates for targeted education to improve 
understanding of cognitive health and effective management strategies in this 
demographic, emphasizing the role of educational background in shaping 
perceptions.

Copyright: © Saudi Medical Journal.

DOI: 10.15537/smj.2025.46.3.20240778
PMCID: PMC11918679
PMID: 40096973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Neuroscience. 2025 May 7;573:42-51. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.03.009. 
Epub 2025 Mar 15.

Potential therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease: Fibroblast growth factors 
and their regulation of ferroptosis, pyroptosis and autophagy.

Li Y(1), Yang C(2), Liu X(2), Shu J(2), Zhao N(2), Sun Z(1), Tabish MS(2), Hong 
Y(1), Liu E(3), Wei N(3), Sun M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, PR China; Henan Key Laboratory of Tumor Pathology, 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, PR China; Henan Institute of Medical and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, PR China.
(2)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, PR China; Henan Key Laboratory of Tumor Pathology, 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, PR China.
(3)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, PR China.
(4)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, PR China; Henan Key Laboratory of Tumor Pathology, 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, PR China. Electronic address: 
sunmiaomiaohd@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressively worsening neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized primarily by the deposition of amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques in the 
brain and the abnormal aggregation of tau protein forming neurofibrillary 
tangles. These pathological changes lead to impaired neuronal function and cell 
death, subsequently affecting the structure and function of the brain. 
Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are a group of proteins that play crucial roles 
in various biological processes, including cell proliferation, differentiation, 
and survival. This article reviews the expression and regulation of FGFs in the 
central nervous system and how they affect neuronal survival, as well as the 
changes in FGF signaling pathways and its regulation of programmed cell death in 
AD. It particularly focuses on the impact of FGF1, FGF2, FGF21, other members of 
the FGF family, and FGFR on the pathophysiological mechanisms of AD. The 
potential of the PI3K/AKT/GSK-3β, Wnt/β-catenin, and NF-κB signaling pathways as 
targets for AD treatment is also discussed. Furthermore, the relationship 
between FGF-regulated ferroptosis, Pyroptosis and Autophagy and AD is explored, 
along with the role of these mechanisms in improving the progression of AD.

Copyright © 2025 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.03.009
PMID: 40096963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


3. Brain Res. 2025 May 15;1855:149573. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149573. Epub 
2025 Mar 15.

Comparing levetiracetam and zonisamide effects on rivastigmine anti-Alzheimer's 
activity in aluminum chloride-induced Alzheimer's-like disease in rats: Impact 
on α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and amyloid β.

Abdel-Aal RA(1), Meligy FY(2), Maghraby N(3), Sayed N(4), Mohamed Ashry IE(5).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut 
71515, Egypt. Electronic address: raafat_abdelbadea@aun.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Restorative Dentistry and Basic Medical Sciences, Faculty of 
Dentistry, University of Petra, Amman 11196, Jordan; Histology and Cell Biology 
Department, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut 71515, Egypt. 
Electronic address: fmeligy@aun.edu.eg.
(3)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of 
Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut 71515, Egypt. Electronic address: 
nashwaabdelghaffar@aun.edu.eg.
(4)Pharmacology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut 
71515, Egypt. Electronic address: drnehal.noly22@med.aun.edu.eg.
(5)Pharmacology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut 
71515, Egypt. Electronic address: esraaashry@aun.edu.eg.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most progressive form of 
neurodegenerative disease, which severely impairs cognitive function. The 
leading class of drugs used to treat AD is acetylcholinesterase inhibitors 
(AChE-Is) as Rivastigmine (RIVA), partially ameliorate its cognitive symptoms. 
Since epilepsy is a common comorbidity with AD, we explored the potential that 
new the antiepileptic drugs; Levetiracetam (LEV) and Zonisamide (ZNS) may 
possess an additional therapeutic benefit to RIVA in AlCl3-induced AD rat model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: AlCl3 was used to provoke AD in rats which were then 
supplemented with treatment drugs for 2 weeks. Treated groups were: Control, 
AlCl3, RIVA, LEV, RIVA + LEV, ZNS and RIVA + ZNS. Then, the behavioral tests; 
passive avoidance (PA), Morris water maze (MWM) and novel object recognition 
(NOR) were conducted to assess cognitive behavior and memory. The Hippocampal Aβ 
assembly was thoroughly examined by histopathology and ELISA. α7 Nicotinic ACh 
receptors' (α7nAChRs) expression was assessed immunohistochemically and by 
real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Caspase 3 expression 
was also assessed by real-time qPCR in hippocampal tissues.
RESULTS: AlCl3 administration impaired memory and cognitive functions in rats, 
augmented hippocampal Aβ deposition, with subsequent neurodegeneration and 
α7nAChRs down-regulation. LEV, but not ZNS, administration significantly 
mitigated AlCl3-induced cognitive impairment probably through suppression of 
amyloid β (Aβ) deposition, enhancement of neurogenesis and α7nAChRs expression. 
When combined to RIVA, ZNS treatment negatively affected cognition possibly 
through its impact on hippocampal Aβ and subsequent neuronal damage.
CONCLUSION: Although our results indicated that neither LEV nor ZNS provided any 
extra benefit to cognitive enhancements in AD rats receiving rivastigmine, LEV 
demonstrated positive effects individually while ZNS had negative effects when 
combined with RIVA. As a result, this study suggests the use of LEV rather than 
ZNS for managing epilepsy in patients with AD given that Alzheimer's and 
epilepsy can coexist.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149573
PMID: 40096940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


4. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2025 May;22(5):673-692. doi: 
10.1080/17425247.2025.2480654. Epub 2025 Mar 21.

The blood-brain barrier as a treatment target for neurodegenerative disorders.

Rust R(1), Sagare AP(1), Zhang M(1), Zlokovic BV(1), Kisler K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience and the Zilkha Neurogenetic 
Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a vascular endothelial membrane 
which restricts entry of toxins, cells, and microorganisms into the brain. At 
the same time, the BBB supplies the brain with nutrients, key substrates for DNA 
and RNA synthesis, and regulatory molecules, and removes metabolic waste 
products from brain to blood. BBB breakdown and/or dysfunction have been shown 
in neurogenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Current data 
suggests that these BBB changes may initiate and/or contribute to neuronal, 
synaptic, and cognitive dysfunction, and possibly other aspects of 
neurodegenerative processes.
AREAS COVERED: We first briefly review recent studies uncovering molecular 
composition of brain microvasculature and examine the BBB as a possible 
therapeutic target in neurodegenerative disorders with a focus on AD. Current 
strategies aimed at protecting and/or restoring altered BBB functions are 
considered. The relevance of BBB-directed approaches to improve neuronal and 
synaptic function, and to slow progression of neurodegenerative processes are 
also discussed. Lastly, we review recent advancements in drug delivery across 
the BBB.
EXPERT OPINION: BBB breakdown and/or dysfunction can significantly affect 
neuronal and synaptic function and neurodegenerative processes. More attention 
should focus on therapeutics to preserve or restore BBB functions when 
considering treatments of neurodegenerative diseases and AD.

DOI: 10.1080/17425247.2025.2480654
PMID: 40096820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Chem Biodivers. 2025 Aug;22(8):e202500260. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202500260. Epub 
2025 Mar 27.

Synthesizing Unique Triazolo[3,4-b][1,3,4]Thiadiazines as Effective 
Anti-Alzheimer's Medications: An In Vitro Study.

Fouad MM(1), Fouad AM(2), Fouad AM(3).

Author information:
(1)Basic Science Department, Modern Academy for Engineering & Technology, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(2)Department of Physics, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Neurology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.

A new class of triazolo[3,4-b][1,3,4]thiadiazines has been developed by 
combining thiocarbohydrazide and ethyl cyanoacetate, resulting in the formation 
of a triazole-3-thione derivative. Afterwards, the compound underwent a reaction 
with 2-bromoacetamide derivative and chloroacetic acid to yield the 
corresponding triazolo-thiadiazine derivatives, 
6-amino-5-(aminomethyl)-3-methyl-N-(5-methylthiazol-2-yl)-5H-[1,2,4]triazolo[3,4-b][1,3,4]thiadiazine-7-carboxamide 
derivative and 5-(aminomethyl)-3-methyl-5H-[1,2,4]triazolo[3,4-b][1,3,4]- 
thiadiazin-6(7H)-one derivative which can serve as a precursor in subsequent 
processes. Furthermore, when α-bromo ketones were treated with triazole 
derivative, which was prepared by mixing thiocarbohydrazide with 
4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 5H-[1,2,4]triazolo[3,4-b][1,3,4]thiadiazin-3-yl)phenol 
derivatives were produced. To identify each of the produced compounds, advanced 
spectroscopic techniques such as mass spectrometry, proton nuclear magnetic 
resonance (1H NMR), carbon-13 NMR (13C NMR), and Fourier-transform infrared 
spectroscopy were utilized. Most of the newly generated compounds showed 
significant inhibitory effects in vitro against the acetylcholinesterase enzyme, 
making them potential candidates for treating Alzheimer's disease. Two compounds 
in particular, triazole-3-thione derivative, and 
4-(6-(benzofuran-2-yl)-5H-[1,2,4]triazolo[3,4-b][1,3,4]thiadiazin-3-yl)phenol 
showed the most promising therapeutic potential with IC50 values of 14.58 ± 0.45 
and 22.53 ± 0.68 µg/mL, respectively.

© 2025 Wiley‐VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202500260
PMID: 40096585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Aging (Albany NY). 2025 Mar 17;17(3):726-739. doi: 10.18632/aging.206222. Epub
 2025 Mar 17.

Sildenafil and risk of Alzheimer disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Chua WY(1), Lim LKE(1), Wang JJD(2), Mai AS(1), Chan LL(3)(4), Tan EK(5)(4).

Author information:
(1)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(2)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Singapore General Hospital Campus, 
National Neuroscience Institute, Singapore, Singapore.
(4)Neuroscience and Behavioral Disorders, Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(5)Department of Neurology, Singapore General Hospital Campus, National 
Neuroscience Institute, Singapore, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer Disease (AD) affects more than 50 million people 
worldwide, with 10 million new diagnosis each year. The link between Sildenafil, 
a Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor, and risk of AD has been debated. We 
conducted the first meta-analysis on the association between Sildenafil use and 
risk of AD.
METHODS: We searched MEDLINE and Embase from inception to March 11, 2024 to 
identify cohort, case-control studies comparing the frequency of AD in patients 
taking Sildenafil with those without. We computed risk ratios (RR) and hazard 
ratios (HR) with accompanying 95% Confidence Intervals (CIs) for each study, and 
pooled the results using a random-effects meta-analysis.
RESULTS: Out of 415 studies that were screened initially, 5 studies comprising 
885,380 patients were included for analysis. Sildenafil use was associated with 
a reduced risk of developing AD by two-fold compared to non-use (HR: 0.47, 95% 
CI: 0.27-0.82, p<0.001). There was a similar association in risk reduction of AD 
in patients on PDE5 inhibitors compared to non-use (RR: 0.55, 95% CI: 0.38-0.80, 
p=0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: Our meta-analysis showed that the use of Sildenafil is associated 
with a reduced risk of developing AD by two-fold. Further randomized control 
trials to ascertain the effect of Sildenafil on AD pathology would be useful.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.206222
PMCID: PMC11984433
PMID: 40096550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


7. Gerontologist. 2025 May 10;65(6):gnaf110. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnaf110.

Exploring Caregiving Network Characteristics for Older Adults Living With 
Cognitive Impairment Across Race and Ethnicity.

Lai W(1), Nemmers N(1), Tsuker S(1), Leggett AN(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Many older adults with cognitive impairment receive 
care from multiple family caregivers, yet little is known about how caregiving 
network (CGN) characteristics differ by race and ethnicity. Guided by the social 
convoy and task-specific model, we investigate CGN characteristics and their 
associations with dementia status and care needs among Black, Latinx, and White 
older adults.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Using data from the 2015 National Health and Aging 
Trends Study, we analyzed a subsample of Black (N = 1,014), Latinx (N = 326), 
and White (N = 1,455) older adults with cognitive impairment. Latent profile 
analysis identified CGN profiles by racial and ethnic group, and multinomial 
logistic regression assessed the relationships between dementia status, care 
needs, and CGN profiles.
RESULTS: Across all groups, greater cognitive impairment is associated with 
larger CGNs, with a higher proportion of adult children and family members than 
those with less impairment. Among Black and Latinx older adults, those with 
multiple care needs tend to have larger CGNs with higher proportions of adult 
children, family members, and task-specific specialists than those with fewer 
needs within their respective groups. In contrast, White older adults with 
multiple care needs tend to rely on spouses and generalist caregivers providing 
assistances across various tasks, than their peers with fewer care needs.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: By identifying the racial and ethnic differences in 
CGNs, our findings emphasize the need to incorporate multiple caregivers beyond 
the primary to existing culturally competent interventions or programs to 
improve the care and lessen caregiver burden.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnaf110
PMCID: PMC12129109
PMID: 40096543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


8. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(4):1235-1242. doi: 10.1177/13872877251323002. 
Epub 2025 Mar 17.

Cerebrospinal fluid VGF is associated with the onset and progression of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Lu Y(1), Li D(1), Yu Y(1), Wang Q(1), Li A(1), Quan Y(1), Xing Y(1); Alzheimer’s 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology & Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.

BackgroundIt remains unclear whether cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) VGF 
(non-acronymic) is associated with the onset and progression of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD).ObjectiveTo assess the levels of CSF VGF throughout the AD 
continuum, and its association with primary AD pathology, cognition, brain 
atrophy, and brain metabolism.MethodsWe studied a total of 526 individuals 
including 377 amyloid-positive individuals (76 preclinical AD, 200 prodromal AD, 
and 101 AD dementia) and 149 amyloid-negative cognitively normal individuals. 
VGF peptide in CSF was analyzed using mass spectrometry.ResultsWe observed 
decreased CSF VGF in preclinical, prodromal, and AD dementia individuals than 
amyloid-negative cognitively normal individuals. Reduced CSF VGF was associated 
with cognitive decline, hippocampal atrophy, ventricle enlargement, and glucose 
hypometabolism at baseline, and it predicted a more marked deterioration over 
time.ConclusionsOur findings support the important contributions of VGF to 
disease pathogenesis and progression in the early stages of AD. Exploring the 
biologics modulating VGF might be a promising approach for AD prevention and 
early treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251323002
PMID: 40095667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


9. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2025 May;43(5):931-938. doi: 
10.55563/clinexprheumatol/6oto0h. Epub 2025 Mar 13.

Effect of TNF-α blockers on reducing the risk of dementia in rheumatoid 
arthritis: a nationwide cohort study.

Chen LF(1), Lin TM(2), Chang YS(3), Hsu HC(4), Shen YC(1), Lin SH(5), Chen 
WS(6), Hu LF(7), Kuo PI(8), Kuo TT(9), Chen SC(10), Chen JH(#)(11), Lien 
YK(#)(12), Chang CC(#)(13).

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Wan Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taipei; and Division of Allergy, 
Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, School of 
Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei; and Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Shuang Ho Hospital, Taipei Medical University, New Taipei 
City, Taiwan.
(4)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Wan Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, and Division of 
Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, School of 
Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Shuang Ho Hospital, Taipei Medical University, New Taipei City, 
Taiwan.
(6)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(7)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Camillian Saint Mary's Hospital, Luodong, Yilan County, Taiwan.
(8)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taipei, and Division of 
Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergy, Department of Internal Medicine, Cardinal 
Tien Hospital, Yonghe Branch, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(9)Health Data Analytics and Statistics Center, Office of Data Science, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(10)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Idaho State University, Pocatello, 
ID, USA.
(11)Health Data Analytics and Statistics Center, Office of Data Science, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, and Graduate Institute of Data Science, College of 
Management, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(12)Department of Internal Medicine, Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(13)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taipei; and Division of Allergy, 
Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, School of 
Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
ccchang@tmu.edu.tw.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVES: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) share 
characteristics of chronic inflammation and immune system dysregulation. RA 
patients are known to have an increased risk of dementia, yet studies on the 
association between tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α blocker use and dementia risk 
in RA patients are lacking. This population-based cohort study aimed to 
investigate whether TNF-α blocker use is associated with a reduced risk of 
dementia in RA patients.
METHODS: Using Taiwan's National Health Insurance Research Database, we 
identified RA patients treated with TNF-α blockers (etanercept, adalimumab and 
golimumab) and matched them 1:4 with RA patients receiving conventional 
synthetic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (csDMARDs). A stratified Cox 
proportional hazard model was used to compare dementia risk between these 
groups.
RESULTS: Among 3.987 RA patients using TNF-α blockers and 20,689 RA patients not 
using TNF-α blockers (comparison group), no significant difference in dementia 
risk was initially observed. However, upon further analysis stratified by TNF-α 
blocker exposure, RA patients with long-term (>180 cumulative defined daily dose 
[cDDD]) TNF-α blocker use had a significantly lower risk of dementia (adjusted 
hazard ratio [aHR]=0.578, 95% confidence interval [CI]=0.342-0.977), after 
adjusting for age, sex and comorbidities. Moreover, higher cumulative doses 
(>1036 cDDD) of TNF-α blockers were associated with a further reduced risk of 
dementia (aHR=0.387, 95% CI=0.188-0.793).
CONCLUSIONS: This nationwide cohort study suggests that long-term and higher 
cumulative doses of TNF-α blockers may be associated with a lower risk of 
dementia in patients with RA.

DOI: 10.55563/clinexprheumatol/6oto0h
PMID: 40095620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Assay Drug Dev Technol. 2025 Aug-Sep;23(6):299-312. doi:
10.1089/adt.2024.130.  Epub 2025 Mar 17.

Pharmacological Evaluation of Aescin for Neuroprotection in 
Intracerebroventricular Streptozotocin Model of Alzheimer's Disease in 
Experimental Rats.

Bhardwaj S(1), Jindal A(1), Singh S(2), Kaur R(2), Kaur Grewal A(3).

Author information:
(1)G.H.G. Khalsa College of Pharmacy, Ludhiana, Punjab, India.
(2)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, India.
(3)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurological disorder that results in the loss of 
memory and cognitive functions linked to redox disbalance, neuroinflammation, 
neurotransmitters changes, and the accumulation of amyloid-beta (1-42) plaques 
in AD. In this study, rats were administered with intracerebroventricular (ICV) 
streptozotocin (STZ) to produce AD-like symptoms in rats. ICV-STZ bilaterally, 3 
mg/kg, was infused on days 1 and 3 with the help of Hamilton syringe by fixing 
cannula at the target position of rat brain using coordinates -2 mm 
(anteriposterior), 1.6 mm Mediolateral (ML), and 1.5 mm (dorsoventral). Learning 
and spatial memory were checked using Morris water maze and elevated plus maze 
apparatus. In ICV-STZ, rats lost their spatial and learning memory, increased 
level of prooxidant like Lipid peroxidation (LPO), nitrite and reduced 
glutathione (GSH), catalase, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) level. The increased 
level acetylcholinesterase (AChE) catalyzed acetylcholine (ACh) concentration 
indicates cholinergic neuron degeneration. Furthermore, we found raised 
inflammatory markers and altered neurotransmitters level after ICV-STZ. 
Administration of aescin (10, 20, and 30 mg/kg, p.o.) dose-dependently 
ameliorated the behavioral alteration and inhibited inflammatory markers like 
tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and IL-1β. Furthermore, 
aescin restored antioxidants like GSH, SOD, and catalase and reduced the nitrite 
and lipid peroxidation level. AChE enzyme causes degradation of ACh, and its 
level was declined after treatment with aescin. Aescin also restored GABA, 
norepinephrine, and serotonin level in the brain with prevention of raised 
glutamate level. Moreover, the histopathological study confirmed neuronal 
pathogenesis, and aescin significantly achieved neuroprotective effect via 
preventing neuroinflammation, balancing redox potential, and inhibiting AChE 
enzyme.

DOI: 10.1089/adt.2024.130
PMID: 40095493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(3):698-708. doi: 10.1177/13872877251319468.
Epub  2025 Mar 17.

Dementia diagnosis and prescription of antidementia drugs: An analysis of German 
claims data (2006-2016).

Becker C(1), Herschung L(2), Gomm W(2), Haenisch B(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Department, Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices (BfArM), 
Bonn, Germany.
(2)Pharmacoepidemiology, German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), 
Bonn, Germany.
(3)Center for Translational Medicine, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

BackgroundUse of claims data allows to analyze health service characteristics of 
dementia, which is one of the most frequent cognitive disorders in Germany and 
worldwide.ObjectiveThe study aimed at describing the variability in dementia 
diagnoses and in antidementia drug prescription pattern.MethodsWe analyzed data 
from a population-based sample of one of the largest German statutory health 
insurances. The cohort included 30,403 patients with incident dementia diagnosis 
from 2006-2016. We described frequencies, patterns, and interrelations of 
diagnoses (Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia, other specific dementia, 
unspecified dementia (UD), antidementia drugs (ADD), and professional groups. We 
described switches in diagnostic and medication patterns between index quarter 
and following quarters, and evaluated the prescriptions in relation to national 
guidelines.ResultsA total of 87% of patients received a diagnosis of UD in at 
least one quarter of insurance. In the quarter of incident diagnosis, 14% of 
patients received more than one diagnostic code of dementia, whereas over the 
course of observation, the majority of patients received more than one 
diagnostic code (61%). Most patients were diagnosed by a general practitioner 
without involving a specialist. All professional groups primarily made UD 
diagnoses except specialists who mainly diagnosed AD. Thirty-five percent of all 
patients and 67% of AD patients were prescribed an ADD at least 
once.ConclusionsSpecialists made the most specific diagnoses and prescribed most 
ADDs. A specialist consultation may be advisable, but only 34% of patients 
visited one. Many AD patients might be left untreated due to underdiagnosis or 
-treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251319468
PMCID: PMC12231858
PMID: 40095481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


12. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul;62(7):9190-9215. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04825-5.
Epub  2025 Mar 17.

Exosomes as Biomarkers and Therapeutic Agents in Neurodegenerative Diseases: 
Current Insights and Future Directions.

Dehghani S(1), Ocakcı O(2), Hatipoglu PT(1), Özalp VC(2), Tevlek A(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Undergraduate Program, Atılım University, 06830, Ankara, 
Turkey.
(2)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, AtıLıM University, 06830, 
Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, AtıLıM University, 06830, 
Ankara, Turkey. atakan.tevlek@atilim.edu.tr.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and ALS rank 
among the most challenging global health issues, marked by substantial obstacles 
in early diagnosis and effective treatment. Current diagnostic techniques 
frequently demonstrate inadequate sensitivity and specificity, whilst 
conventional treatment strategies encounter challenges related to restricted 
bioavailability and insufficient blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability. 
Recently, exosomes-nanoscale vesicles packed with proteins, RNAs, and 
lipids-have emerged as promising agents with the potential to reshape diagnostic 
and therapeutic approaches to these diseases. Unlike conventional drug carriers, 
they naturally traverse the BBB and can deliver bioactive molecules to affected 
neural cells. Their molecular cargo can influence cell signaling, reduce 
neuroinflammation, and potentially slow neurodegenerative progression. Moreover, 
exosomes serve as non-invasive biomarkers, enabling early and precise diagnosis 
while allowing real-time disease monitoring. Additionally, engineered exosomes, 
loaded with therapeutic molecules, enhance this capability by targeting diseased 
neurons and overcoming conventional treatment barriers. By offering enhanced 
specificity, reduced immunogenicity, and an ability to bypass physiological 
limitations, exosome-based strategies present a transformative advantage over 
existing diagnostic and therapeutic approaches. This review examines the 
multifaceted role of exosomes in NDDs, emphasizing their diagnostic 
capabilities, intrinsic therapeutic functions, and transformative potential as 
advanced treatment vehicles.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04825-5
PMCID: PMC12209394
PMID: 40095345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. 
Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. 
Competing Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


13. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2025 Mar 17;20(1):26. doi:
10.1007/s11481-025-10185-7.

Intranasal Delivery of Lithium Salt Suppresses Inflammatory Pyroptosis in the 
Brain and Ameliorates Memory Loss and Depression-like Behavior in 5XFAD Mice.

Bhuiyan P(#)(1), Zhang W(#)(1)(2), Liang G(1), Jiang B(1)(3), Vera R(1), Chae 
R(1), Kim K(1), Louis LS(1), Wang Y(1)(2), Liu J(1)(4), Chuang DM(5), Wei H(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, 305 John Morgan Building 3620 Hamilton Walk, 
Philadelphia, PA, 19104, U.S.A.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to 
Shandong First Medical University, Jinan, 250021, Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Peking University People's Hospital, Beijing, 
China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, 
Qingdao, Shandong, 26600, People's Republic of China.
(5)Scientist Emeritus, Intramural Research Program, National Institute of Mental 
Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
(6)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, 305 John Morgan Building 3620 Hamilton Walk, 
Philadelphia, PA, 19104, U.S.A.. huafeng.wei@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Dec 12:2024.09.18.613794. doi: 10.1101/2024.09.18.613794.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease 
(AD) and has no treatment that can cure or halt the disease progression. This 
study explored the therapeutic potential of lithium salt dissolved in Ryanodex 
formulation vehicle (RFV) and delivered to the brain by intranasal application. 
We first compared lithium concentrations in the brain and blood of wild-type 
mice following intranasal or oral administration of lithium chloride (LiCl) 
dissolved in either RFV or water. The beneficial and side effects of intranasal 
versus oral LiCl in RFV in these mice were assessed and potential mechanisms 
underlying the efficacy of anti-inflammation and anti-pyroptosis in the brains 
were also investigated in both wild-type and 5XFAD Alzheimer's Disease (AD) mice 
brains.
METHODS: For the study of brain versus blood lithium concentrations, wild-type 
(WT) B6SJLF1/J mice at 2 months of age were treated with intranasal or oral LiCl 
(3 mmol/kg) dissolved in RFV or in water. Brain and blood lithium concentrations 
were measured at various times after drugs administration. Brain/blood lithium 
concentration ratios were then determined. For studying therapeutic efficacy 
versus side effects and their underlying mechanisms, 5XFAD and WT B6SJLF1/J mice 
were treated with intranasal LiCl (3 mmol/kg) daily, Monday to Friday each week, 
in RFV beginning at 2 or 9 months of age with a 12-week treatment duration. 
Animal behaviors were assessed for depression (tail suspension), cognition (fear 
conditioning and Y maze), olfaction (buried food test), and motor functions 
(rotarod) at the age of 5 and 12 months. Blood and brain tissue were harvested 
from these mice at 13 months. Blood biomarkers for the functions of thyroid 
(thyroid stimulating hormone, TSH) and kidney (creatinine) were measured using 
ELISA. Changes in protein expression levels of the endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ 
release channels type 1 InsP3 receptors (InsP3R-1), malondialdehyde 
(MDA)-modified proteins and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE), pyroptosis regulatory 
proteins (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3), cleaved caspase-1, 
N-terminal of Gasdermin D (GSDMD)), cytotoxic (IL-1β, IL-18, IL-6, TNF-α) and 
cytoprotective (IL-10) cytokines and synapse proteins (PSD-95, synapsin-1) were 
determined using immunoblotting. Mouse body weights were monitored regularly.
RESULTS: Compared to oral LiCl in RFV nanoparticles, intranasal treatment of WT 
mice with LiCl in RFV markedly decreased blood concentrations at the time range 
of 30-120 min. The ratio of brain/blood lithium concentration after intranasal 
lithium chloride in RFV significantly increased, in comparison to those after 
oral administration lithium chloride in RFV or intranasal administration of 
lithium chloride in water. Intranasal lithium chloride in RFV inhibited both 
memory loss and depressive behavior in adult and aged 5XFAD mice. Additionally 
intranasal treatment of aged 5XFAD mice with LiCl in RFV effectively suppressed 
the increases in InsP3R-1, intracellular oxidative stress markers (4-HNE-bound 
and MDA-modified proteins), pyroptosis activation proteins (NLRP3, cleaved 
caspase-1, N-terminal GSDMD) and cytotoxic cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α), but 
reversed the down-regulation of cytoprotective cytokine IL-10. Intranasal LiCl 
in RFV also alleviated the loss of the postsynaptic synapse proteins PSD-95, but 
not synapsin-1, in aged 5XFAD mice. Blood level of the kidney function marker 
creatinine was significantly increased in 5XFAD than in WT mice in an 
age-dependent manner and this elevation was abolished by intranasal delivery of 
LiCl in RFV. Intranasal LiCl in RFV for 12 weeks in both WT or 5XFAD mice did 
not affect blood biomarkers for thyroid function, nor did it affect smell or 
muscle function or body weight.
CONCLUSION: Intranasal administration of LiCl in RFV significantly decreased 
lithium blood concentrations and increased brain/blood lithium concentration 
ratio, in comparison to its oral administration. Intranasal administration of 
LiCl in RFV robustly protected against both memory loss and depressive-like 
behavior, while had no side effects concerning thyroid and kidney toxicity in 
5XFAD mice. These lithium-induced beneficial effects were strongly associated 
with lithium's suppression of InsP3R-1 Ca2+ channel receptor increase, 
pathological neuroinflammation and activation of the pyroptosis pathway, as well 
as the loss of the synaptic protein PSD-95. Intranasal delivery of lithium salt 
in RFV could become an effective and potent inhibitor of pathological 
inflammation/pyroptosis in the CNS and serve as a new treatment for both 
AD-associated dementia and depression with minimal unwanted side effects 
including peripheral organ toxicity.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-025-10185-7
PMCID: PMC11914297
PMID: 40095208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


14. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2025 Mar 17;37(1):94. doi: 10.1007/s40520-025-03007-6.

Cystatin-c / total cholesterol ratio as a predictor of probable sarcopenia in 
geriatric population from 12 European countries.

Qaisar R(1)(2)(3), Hussain MA(4)(5), Karim A(1), Ahmad F(1)(2)(3), Awad A(4), 
Alsaeed M(6), Alkahtani SA(7).

Author information:
(1)Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, 
United Arab Emirates.
(2)Space Medicine Research Group, Research Institute for Medical and Health 
Sciences, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates.
(3)Cardiovascular Research Group, Research Institute for Medical and Health 
Sciences, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates.
(4)Department of Finance and Economics, College of Business Administration, 
University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates.
(5)Department of Social Sciences and Business, Roskilde University, Roskilde, 
Denmark.
(6)Department of Biomechanics & Motor Behavior, College of Sport Sciences and 
Physical Activity, King Saud University, Riyadh, 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Exercise Physiology Department, College of Sport Sciences and Physical 
Activity, King Saud University, PO Box: 1949, Riyadh, 11451, Saudi Arabia. 
shalkahtani@ksu.edu.sa.

BACKGROUND: A low handgrip strength (HGS) is associated with several diseases in 
older adults. However, predictive biomarkers of future low HGS are poorly known. 
We investigated the prognostic efficacy of the ratio of plasma cystatin-c and 
total cholesterol (CT ratio) levels for predicting future low HGS in Europe.
METHODS: The data was collected from the Survey of Health, Ageing, and 
Retirement in Europe (SHARE) between 2015 and 2021-22. The study participants 
were geriatric adults aged 50 or above (n = 17,698) from 12 European countries. 
The baseline data in 2015 included the measurements of CT ratio from 
participants with normal HGS. The participants who developed low HGS in 
subsequent years were included. We also investigated the quality of life, 
difficulties performing daily activities, and several comorbidities in the study 
population.
RESULTS: In a multivariate-adjusted model, male gender, advancing age, poor 
quality of life, difficulties performing daily activities, and the presence of 
depression, high blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, Alzheimer's disease, and 
osteoarthritis were associated with a higher risk of developing low HGS. CT 
ratio exhibited significant prognostic accuracy for low HGS among men and women 
aged 60-79, irrespective of the quality of life, degree of depression, 
difficulties performing daily activities, and the presence of comorbidities, 
including depression, high blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, Alzheimer's 
disease, and osteoarthritis.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, the CT ratio exhibits adequate prognostic accuracy for 
low HGS, which is not significantly affected by comorbidities and functional 
limitations. Our findings have clinical and policy implications in timely 
identifying older adults at risk of developing low HGS.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40520-025-03007-6
PMCID: PMC11913921
PMID: 40095091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests. Clinical trial number: 
Not applicable.


15. Acta Neuropathol. 2025 Mar 17;149(1):27. doi: 10.1007/s00401-025-02863-w.

Biofluid-based staging of Alzheimer's disease.

Lantero-Rodriguez J(#)(1), Montoliu-Gaya L(#)(2), Ashton NJ(2)(3)(4)(5), Pola 
I(2), Therriault J(6)(7), Rahmouni N(6)(7), Brum WS(2)(8), Servaes S(6)(7), 
Stevenson J(6)(7), Di Molfetta G(2), Arslan B(2), Klostranec J(6)(7), Vitali 
P(6)(7), Montembeault M(6)(7), Gauthier S(6)(7), Tissot C(6)(7)(9), Macedo 
AC(6)(7), Pascoal TA(10), Jeromin A(11), Gobom J(2), Blennow K(2)(12), 
Zetterberg H(2)(12)(13)(14)(15)(16), Rosa-Neto P(#)(6)(7), Benedet AL(#)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden. juan.rodriguez.2@gu.se.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(3)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)Department of Old Age Psychiatry, Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience 
Institute, King's College London, London, UK.
(5)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health & Biomedical Research Unit 
for Dementia at South London & Maudsley NHS Foundation, London, UK.
(6)Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(7)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.
(8)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Biochemistry, Universidade Federal 
Do Rio Grande Do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(9)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, USA.
(11)ALZpath, Inc., Carlsbad, CA, USA.
(12)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(13)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(14)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, London, UK.
(15)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(16)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Recently, conceptual systems for the in vivo staging of Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
using fluid biomarkers have been suggested. Thus, it is important to assess 
whether available fluid biomarkers can successfully stage AD into clinically and 
biologically relevant categories. In the TRIAD cohort, we explored whether 
p-tau217, p-tau205 and NTA-tau (biomarkers of early, intermediate and late AD 
pathology, respectively) have potential for biofluid-based staging in 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF; n = 219) and plasma (n = 150), and compared them in a 
paired CSF and plasma subset (n = 76). Our findings suggest a good concordance 
between biofluid staging and underlying pathology when classifying 
amyloid-positivity into three categories based on neurofibrillary pathology: 
minimal/non-existent (p-tau217 positive), early-to-intermediate (p-tau217 and 
p-tau205 positivity), and advanced tau tangle deposition (p-tau217, p-tau205 and 
NTA-tau positive), as indexed by tau-PET. Discordant cases accounted for 4.6% 
and 13.3% of all CSF and plasma measurements respectively (9.2% and 11.8% in 
paired samples). Notably, CSF- and plasma-based staging matched one another in 
61.7% of the cases, while approximately 32% of the remaining participants were 
one to three biofluid stages higher in CSF as compared to plasma. Overall, these 
exploratory results suggest that biofluid staging of AD holds potential for 
offering valuable insights into underlying AD hallmarks and disease severity. 
However, its applicability beyond molecular characterization at research 
settings has yet to be demonstrated.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00401-025-02863-w
PMCID: PMC11913990
PMID: 40095069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: KB has served 
as a consultant and at advisory boards for Acumen, ALZPath, BioArctic, Biogen, 
Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche 
Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees 
for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational 
materials and participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, 
Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper. HZ has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey 
Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and 
Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche, and is a co-founder of 
Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). Ethics declarations: All 
participants or their legal relatives in case of severe dementia gave written 
informed consent to their participation in this study. Collection and analysis 
of samples were approved by the Research Ethics Board of the Douglas Mental 
Health Institute as well as the Faculty of Medicine Research Ethics Office, 
McGill University.


16. J Clin Med. 2025 Feb 20;14(5):1412. doi: 10.3390/jcm14051412.

Oral Health Status and Factors Associated with Oral Health in Patients with 
Alzheimer's Disease: A Matched Case-Control Observational Study.

Aghasizadeh Sherbaf R(1), Kaposvári GM(1), Nagy K(1), Pakáski M(2), Gajdács 
M(3), Matusovits D(1), Baráth Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Szeged, Tisza 
Lajos krt. 64-66., 6720 Szeged, Hungary.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Szeged, Korányi 
fasor 8-10., 6720 Szeged, Hungary.
(3)Department of Oral Biology and Experimental Dental Research, Faculty of 
Dentistry, University of Szeged, Tisza Lajos krt. 64-66., 6720 Szeged, Hungary.
(4)Department of Prosthodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Szeged, 
Tisza Lajos krt. 64-66., 6720 Szeged, Hungary.

Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease, 
ranking as the seventh leading cause of death in both sexes. There is increasing 
awareness of the role of chronic periodontal disease and severe tooth loss as a 
modifiable risk factor for developing AD. The aim of the present observational 
study was to assess AD patients with non-affected healthy controls in the 
context of their dental and periodontal health outcomes; additionally, the 
potential impact of anamnestic factors and lifestyle habits on oral health 
outcomes was also studied. Methods: A total of n = 41 AD patients receiving 
treatment at the Department of Psychiatry, University of Szeged, were compared 
with n = 41 age- and gender-matched controls from individuals seeking dental 
treatment and from retirement homes (mean age was 83.32 ± 7.82 years). Dental 
and periodontal status indices were assessed according to World Health 
Organization (WHO) criteria. Results: Overall, 51.2%, 68.3%, and 87.8% of AD 
patients received mood stabilizers, drugs for their non-cognitive symptoms and 
cognitive symptoms, respectively. Severe tooth loss was observed in 43.9% of AD 
patients and 56.1% of controls, respectively. There were no significant 
differences among AD patients and controls regarding the dental status indices 
studied (p > 0.05 for all indicators). AD patients had significantly higher 
plaque indices (%) (59.06 ± 15.45 vs. 41.35 ± 7.97; p < 0.001), bleeding on 
probing (BOP%) (62.65 ± 12.00 vs. 40.12 ± 10.86; p < 0.001), pocket depth [PD] 
(2.63 ± 0.56 vs. 2.29 ± 0.13; p = 0.002) and attachment loss [AL] (2.85 ± 0.79 
vs. 2.39 ± 0.41; p = 0.026) values, compared to controls. Smoking (vs. 
non-smokers; 56.28 ± 12.36 vs. 51.40 ± 13.23, p = 0.038) and consumption of 
alcohol (vs. non-drinkers; 58.68 ± 9.86 vs. 54.78 ± 14.86, p = 0.040) were 
associated with higher plaque indices [%], while no similar effects were shown 
for dental status parameters (p > 0.05). In contrast, coffee intake and vitamin 
supplement use had no significant effect on dental or periodontal status 
parameters (p > 0.05 in all cases). Conclusions: The results of our study 
underscore the substantial treatment needs of AD patients, calling for 
heightened awareness among dental healthcare professionals.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm14051412
PMCID: PMC11900378
PMID: 40094842

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest, 
monetary or otherwise. The authors alone are responsible for the content and 
writing of this article.


17. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Feb 28;17:1477008. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1477008.  eCollection 2025.

Retinal microvascular density and inner thickness in Alzheimer's disease and 
mild cognitive impairment.

Ibrahim Y(1), Macerollo A(2)(3), Sardone R(1)(4), Shen Y(5), Romano V(1)(6), 
Zheng Y(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Eye and Vision Sciences, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Institute of Systems, Molecular 
and Integrative Biology, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Neurology, The Walton Centre NHS Foundation Trust, Liverpool, 
United Kingdom.
(4)Statistics and Epidemiology Unit, Local Healthcare Authority of Taranto, 
Taranto, Italy.
(5)Department of Electrical Engineering and Electronics, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, Radiological Sciences, and 
Public Health, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(7)Liverpool Centre for Cardiovascular Science, University of Liverpool and 
Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital, Liverpool, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major healthcare challenge, with 
existing diagnostics being costly/infeasible. This study explores retinal 
biomarkers from optical coherence tomography (OCT) and OCT angiography (OCTA) as 
a cost-effective and non-invasive solution to differentiate AD, mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI), and healthy controls (HCs).
METHODS: Participants from the CALLIOPE Research Program were classified as 
"Dem" (AD and early AD), "MCI," and "HCs" using neuropsychological tests and 
clinical diagnosis by a neurologist. OCT/OCTA examinations were conducted using 
the RTVue XR 100 Avanti SD-OCT system (VISIONIX), with retinal parameters 
extracted. Statistical analysis included normality and homogeneity of variance 
(HOV) tests to select ANOVA methods. Post-hoc analyses utilized Mann-Whitney U, 
Dunnett, or Tukey-HSD tests based on parameters' normality and HOV. Correlations 
with age were assessed via Pearson or Spearman tests. A generalized linear model 
(GLM) using Tweedie regression modeled the relationship between OCT/OCTA 
parameters and MMSE scores, correcting for age. Another ordinal logistic GLM 
(OL-GLM) modeled OCT/OCTA parameters against classes, adjusting for multiple 
confounders.
RESULTS: We analyzed 357 participants: 44 Dem, 139 MCI, and 174 HCs. Significant 
microvascular density (VD) reductions around the fovea were linked with MCI and 
Dem compared to HCs. Age-related analysis associated thickness parameters with 
HCs' old age. Our OL-GLM demonstrated significant thickness/volume reductions in 
Inner_Retina and Full_Retina layers. Foveal avascular zone (FAZ) area and 
perimeter were initially not correlated with cognitive decline; however, OL-GLM 
significantly associated FAZ perimeter enlargement with Dem and MCI groups. 
Significant average and inferior peripapillary RNFL thinning were linked to Dem 
and MCI groups.
CONCLUSION: This is the first study to examine VD changes in G grid sections 
among Dem, MCI, and HCs. We found a significant association between various VD 
parameters and cognitive decline. Most macular thickness/volume changes did not 
correlate with cognitive decline initially; however, our OL-GLM succeeded, 
highlighting the importance of the confounders' corrections. Our analysis 
excluded individual retinal layer parameters due to limitations; however, the 
literature suggests their value. Our study confirmed existing biomarkers' 
efficacy and uncovered novel retinal parameters for cognitive decline, requiring 
further validation.

Copyright © 2025 Ibrahim, Macerollo, Sardone, Shen, Romano and Zheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1477008
PMCID: PMC11906703
PMID: 40093920

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


18. Theranostics. 2025 Feb 18;15(8):3368-3385. doi: 10.7150/thno.106592.
eCollection  2025.

Sex- and age-specific sensitivities of the endocannabinoid system in Alzheimer's 
disease revealed by PET imaging with [(18)F]FMPEP-d (2) and [(18)F]MAGL-2102.

Pees A(1), Morrone CD(1), Tong J(1), Rong J(2)(3), Shao T(4)(3), Wear D(1)(5), 
Liang SH(2)(3), Yu WH(5), Vasdev N(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Azrieli Centre for Neuro-Radiochemistry, Brain Health Imaging Centre, 
Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health (CAMH), Toronto, ON, Canada, M5T 1R8.
(2)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Emory University, Atlanta, 
Georgia, United States.
(3)Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Massachusetts General 
Hospital & Department of Radiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, United States.
(4)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Infection and Immunity, Suzhou Medical College, 
Suzhou, China.
(5)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, University of Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The endocannabinoid system is a critical brain signaling pathway that is 
dysregulated in various brain disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Cannabinoid-targeted therapies and imaging approaches have gained increasing 
interest; however, the biological impact of the endocannabinoid system in 
disease needs further validation. We aimed to study changes in cannabinoid 
receptor 1 (CB1) and monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL), components of 
endocannabinoid signaling and degradation, in a mouse model of AD by PET 
imaging. Methods: [18F]FMPEP-d 2 and [18F]MAGL-2102 were produced on a 
commercial radiosynthesis module. PET-CT images with both tracers were acquired 
in a knock-in mouse model of AD bearing mutated human amyloid precursor protein 
(AppNL-G-F ) at 3 ages, and compared to wild-type mice. Excised brains were used 
for in vitro autoradiography with [18F]FMPEP-d 2 and [18F]MAGL-2102, 
immunofluorescence, and western blotting. Male wild-type and 5xFAD mice were 
chronically treated with MAGL inhibitor JZL184 and imaged with [18F]MAGL-2102 
two days after ending treatment. Results: PET imaging showed sex-, age- and 
genotype-dependent changes in CB1 and MAGL availability. At 4-months 
(early-stage β-amyloid pathology), female AppNL-G-F mice had lower CB1 
availability, and MAGL availability was increased in male AppNL-G-F , compared 
to wild-types. At 8-months, no genotype differences in CB1 were observed, yet 
MAGL availability was reduced in AppNL-G-F frontal cortex, and male AppNL-G-F 
mice exhibited higher MAGL than transgenic females brain-wide. At 12-months 
(late-stage β-amyloid pathology), significantly lower uptake of [18F]FMPEP-d 2 
was observed in AppNL-G-F compared to wild-type, with no changes in 
[18F]MAGL-2102 binding. AppNL-G-F plaque staging was confirmed by Thioflavin-S 
staining. Imaging findings were supplemented by autoradiography, 
immunofluorescence, and western blots. [18F]MAGL-2102 availability was 
responsive to target engagement of the MAGL inhibitor JZL184 in wild-type and 
5xFAD mice. Conclusions: The present study showed dynamic age-, sex- and 
pathology-related changes in CB1 and MAGL availability from early-stage 
β-amyloid pathology, suggesting that the endocannabinoid system is a useful 
target for diagnostics and treatment of AD. Finally, these results highlight 
that endocannabinoid sex differences should be considered in diagnostics and 
drug development.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/thno.106592
PMCID: PMC11905134
PMID: 40093888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


19. RSC Med Chem. 2025 Mar 13. doi: 10.1039/d4md00698d. Online ahead of print.

Development, biological evaluation, and molecular modelling of novel isocytosine 
and guanidine derivatives as BACE1 inhibitors using a fragment growing strategy.

Atta AM(1), Rihan N(2), Abdelwaly AM(2)(3), Nafie MS(4)(5), Elgawish MS(6)(7), 
Moustafa SM(6), Helal MA(2)(6), Darwish KM(6)(8).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Badr University in 
Cairo (BUC) Badr City Cairo (P.O. 11829) Egypt.
(2)Biomedical Sciences Program, University of Science and Technology, Zewail 
City of Science and Technology Giza (P.O. 12587) Egypt.
(3)Institute for Computational Molecular Science, and, Department of Chemistry, 
Temple University Philadelphia Pennsylvania (P.O. 19122) USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry, College of Sciences, University of Sharjah Sharjah 
(P.O. 27272) United Arab Emirates.
(5)Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, Suez Canal University Ismailia 
(P.O. 41522) Egypt.
(6)Medicinal Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Suez Canal University 
Ismailia (P.O. 41522) Egypt khaled_darwish@pharm.suez.edu.eg.
(7)Center for Molecular Spectroscopy and Dynamics, Institute of Basic Science, 
Korea University Seoul (P.O. 02841) Republic of South Korea.
(8)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Galala University New 
Galala (P.O. 43713) Egypt.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition characterized by 
significant synaptic loss and neuronal death in brain regions critical for 
cognitive functions. The disease is characterized by the formation of amyloid 
plaques, which are extracellular constructs consisting mainly of aggregated 
Aβ42. The latter is a peptide formed by the proteolytic cleavage of β-amyloid 
precursor protein (APP) by two enzymes, β- and γ-secretase. Therefore, 
inhibition of the aspartic protease β-secretase (BACE1) is considered a 
promising therapeutic approach for the treatment and prevention of Alzheimer's 
disease. Unfortunately, a limited number of β-secretase inhibitors have reached 
human trials and eventually failed due to inconclusive therapeutic and/or safety 
profiles. In this study, we developed drug-like molecules with a β-secretase 
inhibitory activity using a fragment growing strategy on isocytosine and acyl 
guanidine warheads. Our approach is based on optimizing the hydrophobic part of 
the molecules to obtain a conformationally restrained scaffold complementary to 
the hydrophobic pockets within the enzyme active site. We developed 32 compounds 
with promising in vitro inhibitory activity against BACE1 down to sub-micromolar 
IC50. Docking simulation studies were performed to understand the mode of 
binding of the prepared compounds. We demonstrated that compounds with superior 
activities, such as 16b and 16g, are able to provide the best balance between 
the steric shape and position of the polar substituent for achieving 
preferential anchoring into the S1, S3, S1', and S2' sub-pockets. Further, in 
vivo characterization of selected drug-like candidates of the benzimidazole 
series AMK-IV, namely 16a and 16k, demonstrated their ability to reduce 
oxidation stress and their safety within brain and liver tissues.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d4md00698d
PMCID: PMC11904611
PMID: 40093519

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.


20. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 3:2025.02.27.25323056. doi: 
10.1101/2025.02.27.25323056.

Older more fit KL-VS heterozygotes have more favorable AD-relevant biomarker 
profiles.

Jarchow M(1), Driscoll I(1)(2), Breidenbach BM(1)(2), Cook N(1)(3), Gallagher 
CL(4)(5), Johnson SC(1)(2), Asthana S(1)(2)(4), Hermann BP(1)(2)(5), Sager 
MA(1)(2), Blennow K(6)(7)(8)(9), Zetterberg H(1)(6)(7)(10)(11)(12)(13), Carlsson 
CM(1)(2)(5), Kollmorgen G(13), Quijano-Rubio C(14), Cook DB(15)(16), Dubal 
DB(17), Okonkwo OC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Department of Medicine, School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(2)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute Madison, WI, USA.
(3)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(4)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, William S. Middleton VA 
Hospital, Madison, WI, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(7)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(8)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(9)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, China.
(10)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(11)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(12)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(13)Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Penzberg, Germany.
(14)Roche Diagnostics International Ltd, Rotkreuz, Switzerland.
(15)Research Service, William S. Middleton VA Hospital, Madison, WI, USA.
(16)Department of Kinesiology, School of Education, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(17)Department of Neurology and Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of 
California, San Francisco, California, USA.

Update in
    Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Aug 08;11(3):e70133. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70133.

INTRODUCTION: While hallmarked by the accumulation of β-amyloid plaques (Aβ) and 
neurofibrillary tangles (tau) in the brain, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a 
multifactorial disorder that involves additional pathological events, including 
neuroinflammation, neurodegeneration and synaptic dysfunction. AD-associated 
biomolecular changes seem to be attenuated in carriers of the functionally 
advantageous variant of the KLOTHO gene (KL-VSHET). Independently, better 
cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) is associated with better health outcomes, both 
in general and specifically with regard to AD pathology. Here we investigate 
whether the relationships between CRF (peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak)) and 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) core AD biomarkers and those of neuroinflammation, 
neurodegeneration, and synaptic dysfunction differ for KL-VSHET compared to 
non-carriers (KL-VSNC).
METHODS: The cohort, enriched for AD risk, consisted of cognitively unimpaired 
adults (N=136; MeanAGE(SD)=62.5(6.7)) from the Wisconsin Registry for 
Alzheimer's Prevention and the Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center. 
Covariate-adjusted (age, sex, parental AD history, APOE4+ status, and age 
difference between CSF sampling and exercise test) linear models examined the 
interaction between VO2peak and KLOTHO genotype on core AD biomarker levels in 
CSF [phosphorylated tau 181 (pTau181), Aβ42/Aβ40, pTau181/Aβ42]. Analyses were 
repeated for CSF biomarkers of neurodegeneration [total tau (tTau), α-synuclein 
(α-syn), neurofilament light polypeptide (NfL)], synaptic dysfunction 
[neurogranin (Ng)], and neuroinflammation [glial fibrillary acidic protein 
(GFAP), soluble triggering receptor expressed in myeloid cells (sTREM2), 
chitinase-3-like protein 1 (YKL-40), interleukin 6 (IL-6), S100 calcium-binding 
protein B (S100B)].
RESULTS: The interaction between VO2peak and KL-VSHET was significant for tTau 
(P=0.05), pTau181 (P=0.03), Ng (P=0.02), sTREM2 (P=0.03), and YKL-40 (P=0.03), 
such that lower levels of each biomarker were observed for KL-VSHET who were 
more fit. No significant KL-VSxVO2peak interactions were observed for Aβ42/Aβ40, 
pTau181/Aβ42, α-syn, NfL, GFAP, IL-6 or S100B (all Ps>0.09).
CONCLUSIONS: We report a synergistic relationship between KL-VSHET and CRF with 
regard to pTau181, tTau, Ng, sTREM2 and YKL-40, suggesting a protective role for 
both KL-VSHET and better cardiovascular fitness against unfavorable AD-related 
changes. Their potentially shared biological mechanisms will require future 
investigations.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.02.27.25323056
PMCID: PMC11908295
PMID: 40093256

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement All authors have 
no conflict of interest directly related to this study. S.C.J. has served on 
advisory boards for ALZPath and Enigma Biosciences. K.B. has served as a 
consultant, on advisory boards, or on data-monitoring committees for Acumen, 
ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Novartis, Ono 
Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at 
data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, 
produced educational materials and participated in educational programs for AC 
Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB, which is a part of the 
GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). H.Z. has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey 
Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and 
Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche, and is a co-founder of 
Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). G.K. is a full-time 
employee of Roche Diagnostics GmbH. C. Q.-R. is a full-time employee of Roche 
Diagnostics International Ltd. D.B.D. has consulted for Unity Biotechnology and 
S.V. Health Investors. All other authors have no relevant disclosures to report.


21. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 3:2025.02.28.25323113. doi: 
10.1101/2025.02.28.25323113.

A Systematic Review of Interventions for Persons Living With Dementia: The 
Geriatric ED Guidelines 2.0.

Lee S(1), Suh M(2), Ragsdale L(3), Seidenfeld J(4), van Oppen JD(5), 
Lapointe-Shaw L(6), Hooper CD(7), Jaramillo J(8), Wescott AB(9), Hirata K(10), 
Kennedy M(11), Comasco LC(12), Carpenter CR(13), Hogan TM(14), Liu SW(11); 
Geriatric ED Guidelines dementia writing group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Iowa Carver College of 
Medicine, Iowa City, IA.
(2)Section of emergency medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL.
(3)Chief, Emergency Department, Durham VA Healthcare System; Clinical Associate, 
Department of Emergency Medicine, Duke University Hospital.
(4)Center of Innovation to Accelerate Discovery and Practice Transformation, 
Durham VA Health Care System.
(5)Centre for Urgent and Emergency Care Research, University of Sheffield, S1 
4DA, UK.
(6)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(7)Faculdade Ciências Médicas de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(8)Frank H. Netter MD School of Medicine, Quinnipiac University.
(9)Galter Health Sciences Library & Learning Center, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Northwestern University.
(10)Department of Emergency Medicine, International University of Health and 
Welfare Narita, Chiba, Japan.
(11)Department of Emergency Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School.
(12)Department of Emergency Medicine, Corewell Health William Beaumont 
University Hospital, Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine, 
Royal Oak, MI.
(13)Department of Emergency Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(14)Department of Medicine, Section of Emergency Medicine, Section of Geriatrics 
& Palliative Care, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL.

Update in
    Acad Emerg Med. 2025 Jun 19. doi: 10.1111/acem.70074.

BACKGROUND: The increasing prevalence of dementia poses significant challenges 
for emergency department (ED) care, as persons living with dementia (PLWD) more 
frequently experience adverse outcomes such as delirium, prolonged stays, and 
higher mortality rates. Despite advancements in care strategies, a critical gap 
remains in understanding how ED interventions impact outcomes in this vulnerable 
population. This systematic review aims to identify evidence-based ED care 
interventions tailored to PLWD to improve outcomes.
METHODS: A systematic review was conducted in Ovid MEDLINE, Cochrane Library 
(Wiley), Scopus (Elsevier), and ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global through 
September 2024. The review protocol was registered on PROSPERO (CRD42024586555). 
Eligible studies included randomized controlled trials, observational studies, 
and quality improvement initiatives focused on ED interventions for PLWD. Data 
extraction and quality assessment were performed independently by two reviewers, 
with disagreements resolved through discussion. Outcomes included patient 
satisfaction, ED revisits, functional decline, and mortality.
RESULTS: From 3,305 screened studies, six met the inclusion criteria. 
Interventions included nonpharmacologic therapies (e.g., music and light 
therapy), specialized geriatric ED units, and assessment tools, such as for 
pain. Tailored interventions including geriatric emergency units and community 
paramedic care transitions were effective in reducing 30-day ED revisits and 
hospitalizations. However, heterogeneity in study designs and outcomes precluded 
meta-analysis. Risk of bias ranged from low to moderate.
CONCLUSION: This review underscores the urgent need for standardized and 
evidence-based interventions in ED settings for PLWD. Approaches including 
multidisciplinary care models and non-pharmacologic therapies demonstrated 
potential for improving outcomes. Future research should prioritize consistent 
outcome measures, interdisciplinary collaboration, and person-centered care 
strategies to enhance the quality and equity of ED services for PLWD.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.02.28.25323113
PMCID: PMC11908280
PMID: 40093231


22. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 4:2025.02.28.25323105. doi: 
10.1101/2025.02.28.25323105.

Characterizing multivariate regional hubs for schizophrenia classification, sex 
differences, and brain age estimation using explainable AI.

Nie Y(1)(2), Murad T(1), Miao HY(1), Bhattarai P(1), Thakuri DS(1)(3), Chand 
GB(1)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(2)Institute for Informatics, Data Science and Biostatistics, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(3)University of Missouri, School of Medicine, Columbia, MO, USA.
(4)Imaging Core, Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington University 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(5)Institute of Clinical and Translational Sciences, Washington University 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(6)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate multivariate regional patterns for schizophrenia (SZ) 
classification, sex differences, and brain age by utilizing structural MRI, 
demographics, and explainable artificial intelligence (AI).
METHODS: Various AI models were employed, and the outperforming model was 
identified for SZ classification, sex differences, and brain age predictions. 
For the SZ and sex classification tasks, support vector classifier (SVC), 
k-nearest neighbor (KNN), and deep learning neural network (DL) models were 
compared. In the case of regression-based brain age prediction, Lasso regression 
(LR), Ridge regression (RR), support vector regression (SVR), and DL models were 
compared. For each regression or classification task, the optimal model was 
further integrated with the Shapley additive explanations (SHAP) and the 
significant multivariate brain regional patterns were identified.
RESULTS: Our results demonstrated that the DL model outperformed other models in 
SZ classification, sex differences, and brain age predictions. We then 
integrated outperforming DL model with SHAP, and this integrated DL-SHAP was 
used to identify the individualized multivariate regional patterns associated 
with each prediction. Using DL-SHAP approach, we found that individuals with SZ 
had anatomical changes particularly in left pallidum, left posterior insula, 
left hippocampus, and left putamen regions, and such changes associated with SZ 
were different between female and male patients. Finally, we further applied 
DL-SHAP method to brain age prediction and suggested important brain regions 
related to aging in health controls (HC) and SZ processes.
CONCLUSION: This study systematically utilized predictive modeling and novel 
explainable AI approaches and identified the complex multivariate brain regions 
involved with SZ classification, sex differences, and brain aging and built a 
deeper understanding of neurobiological mechanisms involved in the disease, 
offering new insights to future SZ diagnosis and treatments and laying the 
foundation of the development of precision medicine.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.02.28.25323105
PMCID: PMC11908315
PMID: 40093221

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors have no 
conflict of interest to declare


23. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 4:2025.02.27.640690. doi: 
10.1101/2025.02.27.640690.

Formaldehyde induces and promotes Alzheimer's disease pathologies in a 3D human 
neural cell culture system.

Wu P, Chen D, Wang F, Lu K, Sigurdsson EM, Jin C.

Update in
    Food Chem Toxicol. 2025 Oct 1;206:115777. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2025.115777.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) arises from complex multilevel interactions between 
genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors. Recent studies suggest that 
exposure to the environmental and occupational toxicant formaldehyde (FA) may 
play a significant role in AD development. However, the effects of FA exposure 
on Aβ and tau pathologies in human neural cell 3D culture systems remain 
unexplored. To investigate FA's role in AD initiation, we differentiated 
3D-cultured immortalized human neural progenitor ReN cells (ReNcell VM) into 
neurons and glial cells, followed by FA treatment. FA exposure for 12 weeks 
resulted in a dose-dependent increase in Aβ40, Aβ42, and phosphorylated tau 
levels. To further examine FA's role in AD progression, we established a 3D 
human neural cell culture AD model by transfecting ReN cells with AD-related 
mutant genes, including mutant APP and PSEN1, which recapitulate key AD 
pathological events. Our findings demonstrate that FA exposure significantly 
elevated Aβ40, Aβ42, and phosphorylated tau levels in this 3D-cultured AD model. 
These results suggest that FA exposure contributes to the initiation and 
progression of AD pathology in 3D-cultured human neural cells.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.02.27.640690
PMCID: PMC11908216
PMID: 40093146


24. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 8:2025.03.03.641186. doi: 
10.1101/2025.03.03.641186.

Recurrent patterns of widespread neuronal genomic damage shared by major 
neurodegenerative disorders.

Zhou Z(1)(2), Luquette LJ(3), Dong G(1)(2)(4), Kim J(5), Ku J(1)(2), Kim 
K(1)(2), Bae M(1)(2), Shao DD(1)(2)(6), Sahile B(7), Miller MB(1)(2)(8)(9), 
Huang AY(1)(2)(9), Nathan WJ(10), Nussenzweig A(10), Park PJ(3), Lagier-Tourenne 
C(11), Lee EA(1)(2)(9), Walsh CA(1)(2)(9)(12).

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetics and Genomics, Manton Center for Orphan Disease Research, 
Boston Children's Hospital; Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School; Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School; Boston, MA, 
USA.
(4)Bioinformatics and Integrative Genomics Program, Harvard Medical School; 
Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University; Suwon, South 
Korea.
(6)Department of Neurology, Boston Children's Hospital; Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School; Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Division of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School; Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard; Cambridge, MA, USA.
(10)Laboratory of Genome Integrity, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, 
MD, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, Sean M. Healey & AMG Center for ALS, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School; Boston, MA, USA.
(12)Howard Hughes Medical Institute; Boston, MA, USA.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) are common neurodegenerative disorders for which the 
mechanisms driving neuronal death remain unclear. Single-cell whole-genome 
sequencing of 429 neurons from three C9ORF72 ALS, six C9ORF72 FTD, seven AD, and 
twenty-three neurotypical control brains revealed significantly increased 
burdens in somatic single nucleotide variant (sSNV) and insertion/deletion 
(sIndel) in all three disease conditions. Mutational signature analysis 
identified a disease-associated sSNV signature suggestive of oxidative damage 
and an sIndel process, affecting 28% of ALS, 79% of FTD, and 65% of AD neurons 
but only 5% of control neurons (diseased vs. control: OR=31.20, p = 2.35×10-10). 
Disease-associated sIndels were primarily two-basepair deletions resembling 
signature ID4, which was previously linked to topoisomerase 1 (TOP1)-mediated 
mutagenesis. Duplex sequencing confirmed the presence of sIndels and identified 
similar single-strand events as potential precursor lesions. TOP1-associated 
sIndel mutagenesis and resulting genome instability may thus represent a common 
mechanism of neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.03.03.641186
PMCID: PMC11908196
PMID: 40093130

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: P.J.P. is a member of the 
scientific advisory board for Bioskryb Genomics, Inc. C.L.-T serves on the 
scientific advisory board of SOLA Biosciences, Libra Therapeutics, Arbor 
Biotechnologies and Dewpoint Therapeutics and has received consultant fees from 
Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Holdings America, Sanofi and Applied Genetic 
Technologies Corporation. E.A.L. serves on the scientific advisory board of 
Genome Insight. C.A.W. is a paid consultant (cash, no equity) to Third Rock 
Ventures and Flagship Pioneering (cash, no equity) and is on the Clinical 
Advisory Board (cash and equity) of Maze Therapeutics. No research support is 
received. These companies did not fund and had no role in the conception or 
performance of this research project.


25. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 4:2025.03.03.641217. doi: 
10.1101/2025.03.03.641217.

Diverse somatic genomic alterations in single neurons in chronic traumatic 
encephalopathy.

Dong G(1)(2)(3), Ma CC(1)(2)(4), Mao S(1)(2)(5), Naik SM(6), Brown KS(6), 
McDonough GA(6), Kim J(7), Kirkham SL(1)(2), Cherry JD(8)(9)(10), Uretsky M(9), 
Spurlock E(9), McKee AC(8)(9)(10)(11), Huang AY(1)(2)(12), Miller 
MB(1)(2)(6)(12), Lee EA(1)(2)(12), Walsh CA(1)(2)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetics and Genomics, Manton Center for Orphan Disease Research, 
Boston Children's Hospital; Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School; Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Bioinformatics and Integrative Genomics Program, Harvard Medical School; 
Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Harvard-MIT MD-PhD Program, Harvard Medical School; Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Program in Biological and Biomedical Sciences, Harvard Medical School; 
Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Division of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School; Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University; Suwon, South 
Korea.
(8)Veterans Affairs (VA) Boston Healthcare System, US Department of Veteran 
Affairs; Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy 
Center, Chobanian and Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston University; Boston, 
MA, USA.
(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Chobanian and Avedisian 
School of Medicine, Boston University; Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, Chobanian and Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston 
University; Boston, MA, USA.
(12)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard; Cambridge, MA, USA.
(13)Howard Hughes Medical Institute; Boston, MA, USA.

Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is a neurodegenerative disease that is 
linked to exposure to repetitive head impacts (RHI), yet little is known about 
its pathogenesis. Applying two single-cell whole-genome sequencing methods to 
hundreds of neurons from prefrontal cortex of 15 individuals with CTE, and 4 
with RHI without CTE, revealed increased somatic single-nucleotide variants in 
CTE, resembling a pattern previously reported in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Furthermore, we discovered remarkably high burdens of somatic small insertions 
and deletions in a subset of CTE individuals, resembling a known pattern, ID4, 
also found in AD. Our results suggest that neurons in CTE experience stereotyped 
mutational processes shared with AD; the absence of similar changes in RHI 
neurons without CTE suggests that CTE involves mechanisms beyond RHI alone.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.03.03.641217
PMCID: PMC11908173
PMID: 40093089

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: C.A.W. is a paid consultant 
(cash, no equity) to Third Rock Ventures and Flagship Pioneering (cash, no 
equity) and is on the Clinical Advisory Board (cash and equity) of Maze 
Therapeutics. E.A.L is on the Scientific Advisory Board (cash, no equity) of 
Inocras. No research support is received. These companies did not fund and had 
no role in the conception or performance of this research project. All other 
authors have no competing interests to declare.


26. ACS Omega. 2025 Feb 24;10(9):9132-9153. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.4c09072. 
eCollection 2025 Mar 11.

Development and Optimization of Piracetam and Shatavarin IV-Loaded Nanoemulsion 
for Alzheimer's Disease Therapy: In Silico and Experimental Analysis.

Nadeem M(1), Majid H(2), Ansari MD(3), Ahmad FJ(4), Parvez S(5), Akhtar M(1), 
Ahmad S(6), Najmi AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology. School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research. 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi 110062, India.
(2)Department of Translational and Clinical Research, School of Chemical and 
Life Sciences, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi 110062, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti 
Malaya, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi 110062, India.
(5)Department of Medical Elementology and Toxicology, School of Chemical and 
Life Sciences, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi 110062, India.
(6)Department of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry, School of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi 110062, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) presents a significant challenge due to cognitive 
decline resulting from nerve cell degeneration. Shatavarin IV, a prominent 
bioactive compound fromAsparagus racemosus and Piracetam, has been investigated 
for its neuroprotective potential. This study examines the molecular docking, 
formulation, and characterization of a nanoemulsion containing Piracetam and 
Shatavarin IV for treating AD. The in silico study demonstrated that Shatavarin 
IV exhibited strong binding affinities with multiple AD-related targets, 
including TNF-α (-7.29 kcal/mol), the GSK-3 axin complex (-9.6785 kcal/mol), 
amyloid-β (-6.8326 kcal/mol), and GSK-3 β (-8.8243 kcal/mol). The extraction of 
Shatavarin IV from Asparagus racemosus roots yielded 401.1 ± 2.3 mg with a 
purity of 66%, as confirmed by HPTLC. A combination index study revealed a 
synergistic effect with a CI value of 0.10843 at a 1:1 ratio of Piracetam and 
Shatavarin IV. The nanoemulsion was optimized using a Box-Behnken design, with 
oil concentration, surfactant mixture (S mix), and sonication time as key 
factors. The optimized formulation exhibited a particle size of 183.6 nm and a 
PDI of 0.194. Characterization techniques, including TEM and DSC, confirmed the 
uniformity, stability, and incorporation of the drugs in the nanoemulsion. The 
in vitro drug release study revealed a significantly higher release profile 
(84.30 ± 1.03% in 24 h) for the nanoemulsion than the drug suspension. Ex vivo 
studies demonstrated a superior permeability rate for the nanoemulsion (56.35 ± 
1.19%) compared to the conventional suspension. Additionally, the nanoemulsion 
showed enhanced antioxidant activity compared with the pure extract. Stability 
studies indicated that the formulation remained stable with only minor changes 
in particle size, PDI, and zeta potential over time. This nanoemulsion presents 
a promising therapeutic strategy for AD.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.4c09072
PMCID: PMC11904661
PMID: 40092812

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


27. Brain Commun. 2025 Mar 4;7(2):fcaf099. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf099. 
eCollection 2025.

Uncovering atrophy progression pattern and mechanisms in individuals at risk of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Tremblay C(1)(2), Rahayel S(1)(3), Pastor-Bernier A(1)(2)(4), St-Onge F(5), Vo 
A(2), Rheault F(6), Daneault V(1), Morys F(2), Rajah N(7), Villeneuve S(4), 
Dagher A(2); PREVENT-AD Research Group; Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative (ADNI).

Collaborators: Breitner J, Baillet S, Bellec P, Bohbot V, Chakravarty M, Collins 
DL, Etienne P, Evans A, Gauthier S, Hoge R, Ituria-Medina Y, Multhaup G, Münter 
LM, Nair V, Poirier J, Rajah N, Rosa-Neto P, Soucy JP, Vachon-Presseau E, 
Villeneuve S, Amouyel P, Appleby M, Ashton N, Ayranci G, Bedetti C, Brandt J, 
Westman AB, Cuello C, Dadar M, Daoust LA, Das S, Dauar-Tedeschi M, De Beaumont 
L, Dea D, Descoteaux M, Dufour M, Farzin S, Ferdinand F, Fonov V, Fontaine D, 
Gagné G, Gonneaud J, Kat J, Kazazian C, Labonté A, Lafaille-Magnan ME, 
Lalancette M, Lambert JC, Leoutsakos JM, Lepage C, Madjar C, Maillet D, Maltais 
JR, Mathotaarachchi S, Mayrand G, Michaud D, Montine T, Morris J, Pagé V, 
Pascoal T, Peillieux S, Petkova M, Rioux P, Sager M, Saint-Fort EF, Savard M, 
Sperling R, Tabrizi S, Tariot P, Teigner E, Thomas R, Toussaint PJ, Tuwaig M, 
Venugopalan V, Verfaillie S, Vogel J, Wan K, Wang S, Yu E, Petersen RC, Aisen 
PS, Beckett LA, Donohue MC, Gamst AC, Harvey DJ, Jack CR, Jagust WJ, Shaw LM, 
Toga AW, Trojanowski JQ, Weiner MW.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Advanced Research in Sleep Medicine, Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de 
Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada, H4J 1C5.
(2)Montreal Neurological Institute, Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, 
McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada, H3A 2B4.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada H3C 3J7.
(4)Brain Imaging Centre, Douglas Institute Research Centre, Montreal, QC, 
Canada, H4H 1R3.
(5)Integrated Program in Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC, Canada, H3G 2M1.
(6)Sherbrooke Connectivity Imaging Lab (SCIL), Université de Sherbrooke, 
Sherbrooke, QC, Canada, J1K 0A5.
(7)Department of Psychology, Toronto Metropolitan University, Toronto, ON, 
Canada, M5B 2K3.

Alzheimer's disease is associated with pre-symptomatic changes in brain 
morphometry and accumulation of abnormal tau and amyloid-beta pathology. 
Studying the development of brain changes prior to symptoms onset may lead to 
early diagnostic biomarkers and a better understanding of Alzheimer's disease 
pathophysiology. Alzheimer's disease pathology is thought to arise from a 
combination of protein accumulation and spreading via neural connections, but 
how these processes influence brain atrophy progression in the pre-symptomatic 
phases remains unclear. Individuals with a family history of Alzheimer's disease 
(FHAD) have an elevated risk of Alzheimer's disease, providing an opportunity to 
study the pre-symptomatic phase. Here, we used structural MRI from three 
databases (Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, Pre-symptomatic 
Evaluation of Experimental or Novel Treatments for Alzheimer Disease and 
Montreal Adult Lifespan Study) to map atrophy progression in FHAD and 
Alzheimer's disease and assess the constraining effects of structural 
connectivity on atrophy progression. Cross-sectional and longitudinal data up to 
4 years were used to perform atrophy progression analysis in FHAD and 
Alzheimer's disease compared with controls. PET radiotracers were also used to 
quantify the distribution of abnormal tau and amyloid-beta protein isoforms at 
baseline. We first derived cortical atrophy progression maps using 
deformation-based morphometry from 153 FHAD, 156 Alzheimer's disease and 116 
controls with similar age, education and sex at baseline. We next examined the 
spatial relationship between atrophy progression and spatial patterns of tau 
aggregates and amyloid-beta plaques deposition, structural connectivity and 
neurotransmitter receptor and transporter distributions. Our results show that 
there were similar patterns of atrophy progression in FHAD and Alzheimer's 
disease, notably in the cingulate, temporal and parietal cortices, with more 
widespread and severe atrophy in Alzheimer's disease. Both tau and amyloid-beta 
pathology tended to accumulate in regions that were structurally connected in 
FHAD and Alzheimer's disease. The pattern of atrophy and its progression also 
aligned with existing structural connectivity in FHAD. In Alzheimer's disease, 
our findings suggest that atrophy progression results from pathology propagation 
that occurred earlier, on a previously intact connectome. Moreover, a 
relationship was found between serotonin receptor spatial distribution and 
atrophy progression in Alzheimer's disease. The current study demonstrates that 
regions showing atrophy progression in FHAD and Alzheimer's disease present with 
specific connectivity and cellular characteristics, uncovering some of the 
mechanisms involved in pre-clinical and clinical neurodegeneration.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf099
PMCID: PMC11906971
PMID: 40092368

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests.


28. Open Vet J. 2025 Jan;15(1):151-161. doi: 10.5455/OVJ.2025.v15.i1.14. Epub
2025  Jan 31.

Neuroprotection effect of bovine umbilical mesenchymal stem cell-conditioned 
medium on the rat model of Alzheimer's disease mediated by upregulation of BDNF 
and NGF and downregulation of TNF-α and IL-1β.

Wihadmadyatami H(1), Zulfikar MA(2), Herawati H(3), Karnati S(4), Saragih GR(1), 
Aliffia D(1), Pratama DAOA(5), Handayani N(2), Kustiati U(6), Tirtosari DR(7), 
Tjahjono Y(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Universitas Gadjah 
Mada, Yogyakarta, Indonesia.
(2)2Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Mathematics and Science, Institut 
Teknologi Bandung, Bandung, Indonesia.
(3)Laboratory of Veterinary Public Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Universitas Brawijaya, Malang, Indonesia.
(4)Institute of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Julius Maximillian University, 
Wuerzburg, Germany.
(5)Laboratory of Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Universitas 
Brawijaya, Malang, Indonesia.
(6)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Universitas 
Brawijaya, Malang, Indonesia.
(7)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medical Science, Universitas Ibrahimy, 
Situbondo, Indonesia.
(8)Faculty of Pharmacy, Widya Mandala Catholic University Surabaya, Surabaya, 
Indonesia.

BACKGROUND: Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are distinguished by impairment 
and depletion of nerve cells; one of the most common NDDs is Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), which can appear in early onset or late onset. In recent years, the 
secretome or conditioned medium of mesenchymal stem cells has provided new hope 
for improving conditions and preventing AD. One of the secretomes is bovine 
umbilical mesenchymal stem cells-conditioned medium (BUMSC-CM), where BUMSC is 
predicted to promote neuronal proliferation potentially.
AIM: This study analyzes the therapeutic efficiency of conditioned medium or 
secretome produced from BUMSC-CM in treating neurodegeneration in animal models 
of AD.
METHODS: Five groups consisting of 12 male rats were assigned: untreated (Group 
A, n = 5), positive control group given normal saline 1 ml/100 g BW (Group B, n 
= 5), AD rats model followed by Donepezil treatment (Group C, n = 5), AD rats 
model with BUMSC-CM 0.2 ml/kg BW post-trimethyltin (TMT) induction (Group D, n = 
5), and AD rats model with BUMSC-CM 0.5 ml/kg BW post-TMT induction (Group E, n 
= 5). The brain samples were analyzed for neuronal density using cresyl violet 
staining. The expression and activity of brain-derived neurotrophic factor 
(BDNF) were analyzed by ELISA; in addition, interleukin 1beta (IL-1β), tumor 
necrotic factor-alpha (TNF-α), and neural growth factor (NGF) were analyzed by 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Interactions between the main substances 
of BUMSC-CM and beta-amyloid protein were visualized using in silico molecular 
docking.
RESULTS: Our result demonstrated that BUMSC-CM with the dosage of 0.5 ml/kg BW 
significantly increased BDNF concentration. We also found that BUMSC-CM with 
dosage 0.2 ml/kg BW and 0.5 ml/kg BW down-regulated IL-1β and TNF-α and 
upregulated NGF expression. Additionally, the number of neurons in AD rats 
post-treated with BUMSC-CM was significantly increasing. Furthermore, the amino 
acids in BUMSC-CM, including isoleucine, leucine, and valine, bind to the 
amyloid beta protein via interactions that are hydrophobic and hydrogen-bonded.
CONCLUSION: In this study, the neuroprotective potential of BUMSC-CM was 
demonstrated by its ability to upregulate BDNF and NGF while downregulating 
IL-1β and TNF-α. Additionally, BUMSC-CM showed potential to promote neuron 
proliferation in the hippocampus regions of a rat AD model. The main 
constituents in BUMSC-CM adhere to amyloid beta protein, hence diminishing the 
likelihood of ND disorders, specifically AD.

DOI: 10.5455/OVJ.2025.v15.i1.14
PMCID: PMC11910287
PMID: 40092207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declared that there is no conflict 
of interest.


29. Front Sociol. 2025 Feb 28;10:1533429. doi: 10.3389/fsoc.2025.1533429. 
eCollection 2025.

Redefining disease in the age of blood-based biomarkers.

Reddy NK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, United States.

This article explores the sociological and ethical implications of redefining 
disease in the era of advanced diagnostic technologies, with a focus on 
blood-based biomarkers. Drawing from Foucault's concept of medicalization and 
Illich's critique of disease mongering, it highlights how diagnostic expansions, 
driven by corporate and institutional influences, are reshaping the boundaries 
of health and disease. Advances such as blood assays for Alzheimer's and 
Parkinson's diseases, liquid biopsies in oncology, and biomarkers for depression 
and diabetes, while promising, raise concerns about premature diagnoses and 
overtreatment. The influence of pharmaceutical and insurance industries on 
diagnostic criteria, as seen in the ICD updates, underscores the need to address 
conflicts of interest and regulatory gaps. Case studies on Alzheimer's and 
Parkinson's reveal how these changes could benefit stakeholders at the expense 
of patient welfare. The article calls for ethical oversight, stricter 
regulation, and research into the population-level efficacy of diagnostic and 
treatment protocols.

Copyright © 2025 Reddy.

DOI: 10.3389/fsoc.2025.1533429
PMCID: PMC11906679
PMID: 40092057

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


30. Exp Neurobiol. 2025 Feb 28;34(1):20-33. doi: 10.5607/en25001.

Sphingomonas Paucimobilis-derived Extracellular Vesicles Reverse Aβ-induced 
Dysregulation of Neurotrophic Factors, Mitochondrial Function, and Inflammatory 
Factors through MeCP2-mediated Mechanism.

Lee EH(1), Kwon H(1), Park SY(1), Park JY(1), Hong JH(1), Paeng JW(2), Kim 
YK(2), Han PL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Scranton College, Ewha Womans 
University, Seoul 03760, Korea.
(2)Institute for R&D, MD Healthcare Inc., Seoul 03923, Korea.

Recent studies have shown an increased abundance of Sphingomonas paucimobilis, 
an aerobic, Gram-negative bacterium with a distinctive cell envelope rich in 
glycosphingolipids, within the gut microbiome of individuals with Alzheimer 
Disease (AD). However, the fact that S. paucimobilis is a well-known pathogen 
associated with nosocomial infections presents a significant challenge in 
investigating whether its presence in the gut microbiome is detrimental or 
beneficial, particularly in the context of AD. This study examines the impact of 
S. paucimobilis-derived extracellular vesicles (Spa-EV) on Aβ-induced pathology 
in cellular and animal models of AD. Microarray analysis reveals that Spa-EV 
treatment modulates Aβ42-induced alterations in gene expression in both HT22 
neuronal cells and BV2 microglia cells. Among the genes significantly affected 
by Spa-EV, notable examples include Bdnf, Nt3/4, and Trkb, which are key players 
of neurotrophic signaling; Pgc1α, an upstream regulator of mitochondrial 
biogenesis; Mecp2 and Sirt1, epigenetic factors that regulate numerous gene 
expressions; and Il1β, Tnfα, and Nfκb-p65, which are associated with 
neuroinflammation. Remarkably, Spa-EV effectively reverses Aβ42-induced 
alteration in the expression of these genes through the upregulation of Mecp2. 
Furthermore, administration of Spa-EV in Tg-APP/PS1 mice restores the reduced 
expression of neurotrophic factors, Pgc1α, MeCP2, and Sirt1, while suppressing 
the increased expression of proinflammatory genes in the brain. Our results 
indicate that Spa-EV has the potential to reverse Aβ-induced dysregulation of 
gene expression in neuronal and microglial cells. These alterations encompass 
those essential for neurotrophic signaling and neuronal plasticity, 
mitochondrial function, and the regulation of inflammatory processes.

DOI: 10.5607/en25001
PMCID: PMC11919641
PMID: 40091636


31. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(4):1115-1124. doi: 10.1177/13872877251322750. 
Epub 2025 Mar 17.

The management of mild neurocognitive disorder in primary care: A Delphi 
consensus study.

Quaranta D(1), Marra C(1), Mossello E(2), Pirani A(3)(4), Cagnin A(5), Adinolfi 
F(6), Remiddi S(6).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Unit, Foundation Policlinico Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS, 
Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence and 
Division of Geriatric and Intensive Care Medicine, Careggi University Hospital, 
Florence, Italy.
(3)Italian College of General Practitioners and Primary Care Professionals, 
Florence, Italy.
(4)Alzheimer's Association "Francesco Mazzuca", Ferrara, Italy.
(5)Neurological Clinic, Neurosciences Department, University of Padua, Padua, 
Italy.
(6)Medical Writing & Statistics Department, Nume Plus, Florence, Italy.

BackgroundStrategies to identify and treat mild neurocognitive disorder (mild 
NCD) are still unclear.ObjectiveThe detection and management of mild NCD are 
crucial to prevent or delay its progression to major NCD, and to help those 
affected cope with cognitive impairment. The Cartesio Project aimed to reach a 
consensus on the management of mild NCD in primary care.MethodsThe Advisory 
Board of five experts (three neurologists, one geriatrician and one general 
practitioner (GP)), identified four domains of mild NCD: case finding; 
differential diagnosis; non-pharmacological, and pharmacological intervention. A 
literature review was performed by consulting the PubMed, PsycNET and Scopus 
databases from 2017 until August 2022, and guidelines, reviews and meta-analyses 
on mild NCD were reviewed. A care pathway involving 18 statements was then 
proposed and voted on by 61 participants (39% neurologists, 31% geriatricians, 
25% GPs and 5% psychiatrists).ResultsAgreement was reached on 14 out of 18 
statements. The practice of case finding in primary care and the need for a 
two-level diagnostic approach was supported, including referral to memory 
clinics. With regard to non-pharmacological treatments, no consensus was reached 
on nutritional supplementation. There was support for the use of nootropic drug 
treatments, but not for drugs to treat Alzheimer's disease.ConclusionsThe 
Cartesio Project developed a consensus to identify the best care for mild NCD. 
The consensus highlights educational interventions on timely detection and 
appropriate management of mild NCD in primary care, which may be of relevance 
for those patients who eventually develop Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251322750
PMID: 40091571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


32. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(3):943-952. doi: 10.1177/13872877251320861.
Epub  2025 Mar 17.

Western Mediterranean diet predicts 9-year changes in episodic memory in an 
adult lifespan sample of Americans.

Parker KR(1), McGrath R(2), Rhee Y(3), Hamm J(1).

Author information:
(1)Motivation and Healthy Adult Development Lab, North Dakota State University, 
Fargo, ND, USA.
(2)Healthy Aging North Dakota, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND, USA.
(3)Department of Health, Nutrition, and Exercise Sciences, North Dakota State 
University, Fargo, ND, USA.

BackgroundThe Mediterranean Diet (MD) is well-studied for slowing cognitive 
declines. Few studies have examined how a Western MD (wMD) may impact cognitive 
function.ObjectiveThis study examined whether a wMD predicted less cognitive 
decline over 9 years in a national sample of American adults. The measures were 
episodic memory (EM) and executive functioning (EF) at baseline and 9 years 
follow-up.MethodsThis is a secondary analysis of the Midlife in the United 
States Study (MIDUS), using a longitudinal cohort design with cross-sectional 
dietary data. Participants in this study had data from Waves 2 and 3 of MIDUS 
(n = 833, 46 ± 12 years; 45% male). Regression analyses tested whether wMD 
adherence predicted 9-year changes in EM and EF. Moderator analyses determined 
whether the relationship between wMD, EM, and EF differed across 
sociodemographic characteristics.ResultswMD score at Wave 2 predicted attenuated 
declines in EM 9 years later (β = 0.06, p = 0.04). The association between wMD 
and EM was not moderated by age, sex, race, education, or income and thus is 
consistent across sociodemographic subpopulations. wMD did not predict EF (fully 
adjusted wMD β = 0.00, p = 0.86). Contextualized effect sizes showed that 
individuals who strongly adhered to the wMD (+1 SD) experienced ∼50-60% less 
decline in 9-year EM when compared to those with average adherence.ConclusionsA 
wMD was related to slowed EM declines across sociodemographic populations in a 
national U.S. sample. Education is needed about healthful dietary habits, 
including increased fruit and vegetable intake.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251320861
PMCID: PMC12087284
PMID: 40091565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


33. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Apr;33(4):2095-2108. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01699-w.  Epub 2025 Mar 16.

Gallic acid enhances memory, learning and reduces neuroinflammation in a rat 
model of scopolamine-induced cholinergic dysfunction.

Alikhanzade M(1), Khosravi M(1), Hosseini M(2)(3), Rajabian A(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences, North Tehran Branch, 
Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Applied Biomedical Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, 9177948564, Iran. Hosseinim@mums.ac.ir.
(3)Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Research Center, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 9177948564, Iran. Hosseinim@mums.ac.ir.
(4)Neuroscience Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, 9177948564, Iran.
(5)Department of Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 9177948564, Iran.

Gallic acid (GA), a potent polyphenol antioxidant, has demonstrated beneficial 
effects on the nervous system. This study aimed to investigate the 
neuroprotective potential of GA on learning and memory in a rat model of 
scopolamine-induced cholinergic dysfunction. Additionally, the roles of 
oxidative stress and neuroinflammation were examined. Rats were divided into six 
groups: Control, scopolamine (2 mg/kg/day), scopolamine plus 25, 50, or 
100 mg/kg of GA, and scopolamine plus 2 mg/kg of donepezil (DN, administered 
once daily). Behavioral performance was evaluated using the Morris Water Maze 
(MWM) and Passive Avoidance Test. Biochemical parameters were assessed to 
determine oxidative stress, and gene expression analyses were conducted to 
explore neuroinflammation in the hippocampus. The behavioral tests revealed that 
both GA and DN treatments improved the rats' performance in the MWM, as 
evidenced by their ability to locate the platform and spend more time in the 
target area. Additionally, GA administration increased the latency of entering 
the dark compartment and extended the time spent in the light compartment while 
reducing the frequency of dark compartment entries in the Passive Avoidance 
Test. Furthermore, GA exhibited antioxidant, anti-acetylcholinesterase, and 
anti-inflammatory effects, as indicated by the modulation of malondialdehyde 
levels, thiol content, superoxide dismutase activity, acetylcholinesterase 
activity, and the expression of inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis 
factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6. In conclusion, this study 
provides evidence for the potential therapeutic benefits of GA in Alzheimer's 
disease, highlighting its ability to enhance memory function and mitigate 
oxidative stress, acetylcholinesterase activity, and inflammation.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01699-w
PMID: 40090981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: The authors 
declare that they have no conflicts of interest and no financial interests 
related to the material of this manuscript. Ethical approval: This research was 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines of the National Institute of Health 
for the care and use of laboratory animals and was approved by the ethics 
committee for animal research at Mashhad University of Medical Sciences 
(IR.MUMS.AEC.1402.296).


34. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;12(6):100134. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100134.  Epub 2025 Mar 15.

Brain health PRO/Santé cerveau PRO: The development of a web-based program for 
dementia literacy and risk factor reduction.

Belleville S(1), Anderson ND(2), Bherer L(3), Camicioli R(4), Carrier J(5), Chan 
S(6), Cuesta M(7), Dang-Vu TT(8), Dwosh E(9), Fiocco AJ(10), Ferland G(11), 
Gilbert B(12), Harris E(13), Itzhak I(14), Jarrett P(15), Kadri MA(7), Laurin 
D(16), Liu-Ambrose T(17), McGibbon CA(18), Middleton L(19), Miller L(13), 
Nygaard HB(9), Montero-Odasso M(20), Murphy K(6), Phillips N(21), Pichora-Fuller 
MK(6), Robillard JM(22), Smith EE(23), Speechley M(24), Trigui A(25), Wittich 
W(26), Chertkow H(27), Feldman HH(28); CTU expert group for the Canadian 
Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA), CAN-THUMBS UP Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Centre de recherche de l'Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada; Département de psychologie, Université de Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada. Electronic address: sylvie.belleville@umontreal.ca.
(2)Rotman Research Institute, Baycrest Academy for Research & Education, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Departments of Psychology and Psychiatry, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Centre de recherche de l'Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada; Département de médecine, Université de Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada; Montreal Heart Institute, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada; 
Neuroscience and Mental Health Institute, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(5)Département de psychologie, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada; 
Center for Advanced Research in Sleep Medicine (CARSM), Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur 
de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(6)Departments of Psychology and Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(7)Centre de recherche de l'Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(8)Centre de recherche de l'Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada; Department of Health, Kinesiology and Applied 
Physiology, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(9)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Department of Medicine, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(10)Institute for Stress and Wellbeing Research, Department of Psychology, 
Toronto, Canada.
(11)Montreal Heart Institute, Montréal, Québec, Canada; Département de 
nutrition, Faculté de médecine, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada.
(12)Clinique Bien Vieillir, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(13)Co-president of Citizen Advisory Group, Canada.
(14)Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(15)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Dalhousie University, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada; Department of Geriatric Medicine, Horizon Health 
Network, Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada.
(16)Centre d'excellence sur le vieillissement de Québec, CIUSSS de la 
Capitale-Nationale, INAF, Université Laval, Québec, Canada.
(17)Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Centre for Aging SMART at Vancouver Coastal 
Health, Vancouver Coastal Health Research Institute, Vancouver, Canada; 
Department of Physical Therapy, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada.
(18)Faculty of Kinesiology and Institute of Biomedical Engineering, University 
of New Brunswick, Fredericton NB, Canada.
(19)Department of Kinesiology and Health Sciences, University of Waterloo, 
Ontario, Canada.
(20)Lawson Health Research Institute, London, Ontario, Canada; Gait and Brain 
Lab, Parkwood Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; 
Departments of Medicine and Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of 
Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(21)Department of Psychology, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(22)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(23)Hotchkiss Brain Institute, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Department of Clinical 
Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(24)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Schulich Interfaculty Program in 
Public Health, Western University.
(25)Centre de recherche de l'Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada; Département de nutrition, Faculté de médecine, 
Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(26)École d'optométrie, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(27)Rotman Research Institute, Baycrest Academy for Research & Education, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research, Montréal, 
Québec, Canada; Department of Medicine (Neurology), University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill 
University, Canada.
(28)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, 
California, USA; Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, School of Medicine, 
University of California. San Diego California USA.

BACKGROUND: Online educational programs focused on ways to improve brain health 
could increase participant literacy, empowerment, and engagement in activities 
that support personal brain health, potentially reducing dementia risk.
OBJECTIVES: Our goal was to develop an evidence-based online educational program 
with a focus on risk and protective factors for dementia. Here we present the 
rationale and features of the program and include results from a pilot study 
that assessed usability and acceptability.
DESIGN: This project is part of the Can-Thumbs UP (CTU) initiative. An 
Intervention Mapping Approach framework and co-construction approach was used to 
develop the online program. A pre-post pilot open label design was used to test 
the usability and acceptance of this at-home educational program.
SETTING: The program and assessment for the pilot study were delivered fully 
remotely.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty community-dwelling older adults (60-83 years of age, 65 % 
female) living in Canada who were at increased risk of dementia.
PROGRAM: The Brain Health PRO/Santé Cerveau PRO is a web-based 45-week program 
available in French and English. It provides general information and guidance on 
seven modifiable risk factors for dementia: physical activity, nutrition, 
cognitively stimulating activities, sleep, social and psychological health, 
vascular health, and vision/hearing. After completing a brief intake 
questionnaire, users are provided with an individualized risk profile to 
personalize priorities and goals. During the course of the program, users 
receive feedback on lifestyle changes. For this pilot study, participants 
completed a 15-week version of the program.
MEASUREMENTS: This pilot study reports measures of usability (System Usability 
Scale), acceptance (Technology Acceptance Model-2) as well as risk profiles at 
intake based on self-reported questionnaires.
RESULTS: Two logic models were developed to identify the determinants of risk 
for dementia and how these could be targeted by the program. A review of 
dementia risk and protective factors and online educational programs for older 
adults, as well as co-creation activities with experts, stakeholders, and 
citizen advisors, were used to identify the determinants, target, format, and 
content of the program. The pilot study reports excellent usability and 
acceptance with scores of 80.4/100 and 93.5/120 respectively.
CONCLUSION: Intervention mapping and co-construction approaches facilitated the 
design of a program that effectively balances the delivery of scientific content 
with the specific constraints, needs and abilities of older adults.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT05347966.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100134
PMCID: PMC12434268
PMID: 40090784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Sylvie Belleville reports a 
relationship with Lucilab that includes: board membership and consulting or 
advisory. The authors have copyright on the written content of Brain Health PRO. 
If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.


35. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 May;307(Pt 3):142141. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.142141. Epub 2025 Mar 14.

Going beyond ATP binding site as a novel inhibitor design strategy for tau 
protein kinases in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease: A review.

Zaater MA(1), El Kerdawy AM(2), Mahmoud WR(1), Abou-Seri SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Kasr El Aini Street, Cairo 11562, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Kasr El Aini Street, Cairo 11562, Egypt; School of Health and Care 
Sciences, College of Health and Science, University of Lincoln, Joseph Banks 
Laboratories, Green Lane, Lincoln, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
ahmed.elkerdawy@cu.edu.eg.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is among the top mortality causing diseases worldwide. 
The presence of extracellular β-amyloidosis, as well as intraneuronal 
neurofibrillary aggregates of the abnormally hyperphosphorylated tau protein are 
two major characteristics of AD. Targeting protein kinases that are involved in 
the disease pathways has been a common approach in the fight against AD. 
Unfortunately, most kinase inhibitors currently available target the adenosine 
triphosphate (ATP)- binding site, which has proven unsuccessful due to issues 
with selectivity and resistance. As a result, a pressing need to find other 
alternative sites beyond the ATP- binding site has profoundly evolved. In this 
review, we will showcase some case studies of inhibitors of tau protein kinases 
acting beyond ATP binding site which have shown promising results in alleviating 
AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.142141
PMID: 40090653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


36. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 5;998:177510. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177510.
Epub  2025 Mar 14.

The neuroprotective role of Humanin in Alzheimer's disease: The molecular 
effects.

Alqahtani SM(1), Al-Kuraishy HM(2), Al-Gareeb AI(3), Alexiou A(4), Fawzy MN(5), 
Papadakis M(6), Al-Botaty BM(7), Alruwaili M(8), El-Saber Batiha G(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, The University Hospital, Najran 
University, Najran, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: smaalqahtany@nu.edu.sa.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Mustansiriyah University, Baghdad, Iraq. Electronic address: 
haydermutter@uomustansiriyah.edu.iq.
(3)Jabir Ibn Hayyan Medical University, Al-Ameer Qu, PO.Box13, Kufa, Najaf, 
Iraq. Electronic address: dr.alialgareeb78@jmu.edu.iq.
(4)University Centre for Research & Development, Chandigarh University, 
Chandigarh-Ludhiana Highway, Mohali, Punjab, India; Department of Research & 
Development, Funogen, Athens, Greece. Electronic address: 
athanasios.th.alexiou@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Sinai 
University- Arish Branch, Arish, 45511, Egypt. Electronic address: 
mohamed.naser@su.edu.eg.
(6)University Hospital Witten-Herdecke, Heusnerstrasse 40, University of 
Witten-Herdecke, 42283, Wuppertal, Germany. Electronic address: 
drmariospapadakis@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Helwan 
University, Ain Helwan, 11795, Cairo, Egypt. Electronic address: 
basant_mahmoud@pharm.helwan.edu.eg.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, Jouf University, 
Sakaka, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: Mubarak.alru@hotmail.com.
(9)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Damanhour University, AlBeheira, Damanhour, 22511, Egypt. Electronic address: 
gaberbatiha@gmail.com.

Humanin (HN) is an endogenous micropeptide also known as a mitochondria-derived 
peptide. It has a neuroprotective effect against Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
other neurodegenerative diseases by improving hippocampal acetylcholine and 
attenuating the development of oxidative stress and associated neurotoxicity. HN 
protects the neuron from the toxic effects of amyloid beta (Aβ). HN is regarded 
as a biomarker of mitochondrial stress. Interestingly, aging reduces brain 
expression of HN, leading to cognitive impairment and elevating the risk of 
neurodegeneration, including AD. However, in old subjects and AD patients, 
circulating HN levels increase as a compensatory mechanism to reduce 
neurodegeneration and mitochondrial dysfunction in AD. Conversely, other studies 
demonstrated a reduction in circulating HN levels in AD. These findings 
indicated controversial points regarding the precise mechanistic role of HN in 
AD. Therefore, the aim of this review was to discuss the exact role of HN in AD 
neuropathology and also to discuss the molecular mechanisms of HN in AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177510
PMID: 40090538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


37. Brain Res. 2025 May 15;1855:149568. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149568. Epub
 2025 Mar 14.

Intersecting molecular pathways in Synucleinopathies and Amyloidogenesis: 
Exploring shared mechanisms and therapeutic potential.

Kaur J(1), Sharma V(2), Khan H(3), Singh S(4), Singh TG(5).

Author information:
(1)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: jashanpreet23057.ccp@chitkara.edu.in.
(2)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: veerta1997@gmail.com.
(3)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: heenakhan0094@gmail.com.
(4)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: shareen.singh@chitkara.edu.in.
(5)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: gurjeet.singh@chitkara.edu.in.

Synucleinopathies and amyloidogenic disorders are the two most prevalent 
neurodegenerative conditions, characterized by progressive loss of neurons and 
aggregation of proteins in the central nervous system. Emerging evidence 
suggests that despite their distinct pathological hallmarks: α-synuclein in 
Parkinson's disease (PD) and amyloid-β in Alzheimer's disease (AD), both 
disorders share common molecular pathways, including oxidative stress, 
neuroinflammation, misfolding/aggregation of proteins and mitochondrial 
dysfunction. This review explores the molecular intersections between 
synucleinopathies and amyloidogenesis. Furthermore, this review highlights how 
these pathways drive neuronal loss and suggest that targeting them could provide 
broad therapeutic benefits. By elucidating the shared mechanisms between PD and 
AD, the multi-targeted therapies could address the underlying molecular 
disruptions common to both disorders, offering new avenues for effective 
disease-modifying treatments in neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149568
PMID: 40090446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


38. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Apr 9;345:119622. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119622. Epub
 2025 Mar 14.

Multi-target activity of ethanolic extract of Crinum woodrowii Baker for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Shete P(1), Misar A(1), Ugale V(2), Suryavanshi K(1), Ghatpande N(1), Waghole 
R(1), Datar M(3), Shravage B(4), Kulkarni P(5).

Author information:
(1)Bioprospecting Group, Agharkar Research Institute, Savitribai Phule Pune 
University, Pune, 411004, India.
(2)Bioprospecting Group, Agharkar Research Institute, Savitribai Phule Pune 
University, Pune, 411004, India; R. C. Patel Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research, Shirpur, Maharashtra, India. Electronic address: 
vinod.ugale@rediffmail.com.
(3)Biodiversity and Palaeobiology Group, Agharkar Research Institute, Pune, 
411004, India.
(4)Developmental Biology Group, Agharkar Research Institute, Pune, 411004, 
India.
(5)Bioprospecting Group, Agharkar Research Institute, Savitribai Phule Pune 
University, Pune, 411004, India. Electronic address: ppkulkarni@aripune.org.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex 
neurodegenerative disease affecting mental ability and neurocognitive functions. 
Crinum woodrowii Baker (C. woodrowii) is an endemic plant with significant 
ethnobotanical potential against neurological and inflammatory conditions with a 
characteristic improvement of cognitive functions.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To assess the anti-AD potential of C. woodrowii extract 
through in-vitro assays and preclinical in-vivo screening and to validate its 
neuroprotective effect by biochemical and histopathological analysis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Herein, galantamine contents of the ethanolic extract of 
C. woodrowii were quantified using HPLC and LCMS. Further, the extract was 
examined for in-vitro cytotoxicity, anti-inflammatory, anti-cholinesterase 
activities, and in-vivo neuropharmacological studies.
RESULTS: The extract exhibited low cytotoxicity on RAW 264.7 cells and the 
inhibition of LPS-induced nitric oxide production. The extract also showed 
anti-cholinesterase activities. The treatment with extract significantly rescued 
the rough eye phenotype in the Drosophila model of AD. In neuropharmacological 
screening, the extract showed no symptoms of acute oral toxicity in rats. The 
extract significantly reversed scopolamine-induced memory deficit in mice and 
improved their learning ability with memory retention in exteroceptive 
behavioral models. The pretreatment of mice with extract reinstated the elevated 
brain acetylcholinesterase, lipid peroxidation, and reduced glutathione levels 
due to scopolamine and aging. The extract also restored the altered superoxide 
dismutase and catalase levels. The extract alleviated neuronal tissue damage 
caused by the scopolamine, as indicated by the histological analyses of the 
brain.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggested that the C. woodrowii extract has 
neuroprotective properties and ameliorates cognitive dysfunction and hence could 
be explored further as a potential neurotherapeutics for treating AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119622
PMID: 40090428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


39. Exp Neurol. 2025 Jun;388:115218. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115218. Epub
2025  Mar 14.

PPM1D ameliorates Alzheimer's disease by promoting mitophagy.

Wang A(1), Zhang F(2), Zhang W(3), Gong J(4), Sun X(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tieling Central Hospital, Tieling, Liaoning, 
People's Republic of China; Department of Neurology, The Fourth Affiliated 
Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinzhou Medical 
University, Jinzhou, Liaoning, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Hospital of Qinhuangdao, Qinhuangdao, 
Hebei, People's Republic of China.
(4)Tieling Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Tieling, Liaoning, 
People's Republic of China.
(5)Department of Neurology, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, Liaoning, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
zgyd_sunxiaohong@163.com.

Mitochondrial autophagy (mitophagy) plays an essential role in the maintenance 
of mitochondrial homeostasis. Defective mitophagy triggered by amyloid beta (Aβ) 
is linked to neuronal deterioration and neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). However, the molecular mechanism underlying the defective mitophagy in AD 
is still not fully illustrated. Protein phosphatase Mn2+/Mg2+-dependent 1D 
(PPM1D) triggers autophagy in mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Downregulated PPM1D 
was shown in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice. This study aims to investigate the 
role of PPM1D in the progression of AD. Here, APP/PS1 mice were used to mimic 
AD, and rAAV2 vectors expressing PPM1D were injected into the bilateral 
hippocampus. In vitro, the mouse hippocampal neuron cell line HT22 was 
stimulated by Aβ1-42 to trigger neuronal damage. High PPM1D expression 
alleviated the impairments of spatial cognition and memory in APP/PS1 mice. 
Additionally, PPM1D enhanced autophagosome formation, lysosomal degradation of 
impaired mitochondria, amyloid plaque deposition, and neuronal degeneration and 
apoptosis in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice. Similar effects of PPM1D on 
neuronal apoptosis and mitophagy were observed in Aβ1-42-treated HT22 cells, and 
the effects could be reversed by the mitophagy inhibitor cyclosporine A. In 
conclusion, PPM1D facilitates mitophagy to inhibit the progression of AD-like 
disease. Taken together, the present work uncovers defective mitophagy in AD may 
be associated with down-regulated PPM1D, and PPM1D may be a potential 
therapeutic target for AD treatment.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115218
PMID: 40090398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


40. J Neuroinflammation. 2025 Mar 15;22(1):85. doi: 10.1186/s12974-025-03401-x.

Do microglia metabolize fructose in Alzheimer's disease?

Sturno AM(1), Hassell JE Jr(1), Lanaspa MA(1), Bruce KD(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Diabetes, Department of Medicine, 
University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 12801 E. 17th Ave, Aurora, CO, 
80045, USA.
(2)Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Diabetes, Department of Medicine, 
University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 12801 E. 17th Ave, Aurora, CO, 
80045, USA. Kimberley.bruce@cuanschutz.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-associated neurodegenerative disorder with a 
complex etiology. While emerging AD therapeutics can slow cognitive decline, 
they may worsen dementia in certain groups of individuals. Therefore, 
alternative treatments are much needed. Microglia, the brain resident 
macrophages, have the potential to be novel therapeutic targets as they regulate 
many facets of AD, including lipid droplet (LD) accumulation, amyloid beta (Aβ) 
clearance, and neuroinflammation. To carry out such functions, microglia undergo 
phenotypic changes, which are linked to shifts in metabolism and substrate 
utilization. While homeostatic microglia are driven by oxidative phosphorylation 
(OXPHOS) and glycolysis, in aging and AD, microglia shift further towards 
glycolysis. Interestingly, this "metabolic reprogramming" may be linked to an 
increase in fructose metabolism. In the brain, microglia predominantly express 
the fructose transporter SLC2A5 (GLUT5), and enzymes involved in fructolysis and 
endogenous fructose production, with their expression being upregulated in aging 
and disease. Here, we review evidence for fructose uptake, breakdown, and 
production in microglia. We also evaluate emerging literature targeting fructose 
metabolism in the brain and periphery to assess its ability to modulate 
microglial function in AD. The ability of microglia to transport and utilize 
fructose, coupled with the well-established role of fructose in metabolic 
dysfunction, supports the notion that microglial fructose metabolism may be a 
novel potential therapeutic target for AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-025-03401-x
PMCID: PMC11910010
PMID: 40089786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


41. Nat Commun. 2025 Mar 15;16(1):2556. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-57860-0.

Parvalbumin interneurons regulate rehabilitation-induced functional recovery 
after stroke and identify a rehabilitation drug.

Okabe N(1), Wei X(2), Abumeri F(3), Batac J(3), Hovanesyan M(3), Dai W(3), 
Azarapetian S(3), Campagna J(4), Pilati N(5), Marasco A(5), Alvaro G(5), 
Gunthorpe MJ(6), Varghese J(4), Cramer SC(7), Mody I(3)(8), Carmichael ST(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los Angeles, 
CA, 90095, USA. Nokabe@mednet.ucla.edu.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los 
Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los Angeles, 
CA, 90095, USA.
(4)The Drug Discovery Lab, Mary S. Easton Center for Alzheimer's Disease 
Research, Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los 
Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(5)Autifony Srl, Istituto di Ricerca Pediatrica Citta' della Speranza, Via Corso 
Stati Uniti, 4f, 35127, Padua, Italy.
(6)Autifony Therapeutics Limited, Stevenage Bioscience Catalyst, Stevenage, SG1 
2FX, UK.
(7)Department of Neurology, UCLA, California Rehabilitation Institute, Los 
Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(8)Department of Physiology, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los Angeles, 
CA, 90095, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los Angeles, 
CA, 90095, USA. SCarmichael@mednet.ucla.edu.

Motor disability is a critical impairment in stroke patients. Rehabilitation has 
a limited effect on recovery; but there is no medical therapy for post-stroke 
recovery. The biological mechanisms of rehabilitation in the brain remain 
unknown. Here, using a photothrombotic stroke model in male mice, we demonstrate 
that rehabilitation after stroke selectively enhances synapse formation in 
presynaptic parvalbumin interneurons and postsynaptic neurons in the rostral 
forelimb motor area with axonal projections to the caudal forelimb motor area 
where stroke was induced (stroke-projecting neuron). Rehabilitation improves 
motor performance and neuronal functional connectivity, while inhibition of 
stroke-projecting neurons diminishes motor recovery. Stroke-projecting neurons 
show decreased dendritic spine density, reduced external synaptic inputs, and a 
lower proportion of parvalbumin synapse in the total GABAergic input. 
Parvalbumin interneurons regulate neuronal functional connectivity, and their 
activation during training is necessary for recovery. Furthermore, gamma 
oscillation, a parvalbumin-regulated rhythm, is increased with 
rehabilitation-induced recovery in animals after stroke and stroke patients. 
Pharmacological enhancement of parvalbumin interneuron function improves motor 
recovery after stroke, reproducing rehabilitation recovery. These findings 
identify brain circuits that mediate rehabilitation-recovery and the possibility 
for rational selection of pharmacological agents to deliver the first 
molecular-rehabilitation therapeutic.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-57860-0
PMCID: PMC11910580
PMID: 40089466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: A.M., N.P., G.A., and M.G. 
are employees of and shareholders in Autifony Therapeutics Ltd. The other 
authors declare no competing interests.


42. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;12(6):100124. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100124.  Epub 2025 Mar 14.

Dietary patterns and blood-based biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease in 
cognitively intact older adults: Findings from a population-based study.

Mrhar A(1), Carballo-Casla A(2), Grande G(3), Valletta M(4), Fredolini C(5), 
Fratiglioni L(3), Gregorič Kramberger M(6), Kuhar A(7), Winblad B(8), 
Calderón-Larrañaga A(3), Vetrano DL(3).

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Center, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, 
Karolinska Institutet and Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden; Biotechnical 
Faculty, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address: 
anja.mrhar@ki.se.
(2)Aging Research Center, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, 
Karolinska Institutet and Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden; Center for 
Networked Biomedical Research in Epidemiology and Public Health (CIBERESP), 
Madrid, Spain.
(3)Aging Research Center, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, 
Karolinska Institutet and Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden; Stockholm 
Gerontology Research Center, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Aging Research Center, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, 
Karolinska Institutet and Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Protein Science, SciLifeLab, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 
Solna, Sweden; Affinity Proteomics Unit, SciLifeLab, KTH Royal Institute of 
Technology, Solna, Sweden.
(6)Department of Neurology, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, Ljubljana, 
Slovenia; Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia; 
Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of Clinical 
Geriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden.
(7)Biotechnical Faculty, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(8)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of 
Neurogeriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden; Theme Inflammation and 
Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Diet can impact cognitive aging, but comprehensive data from human 
studies is lacking and the underlying biological mechanisms are still not fully 
understood.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the associations between two dietary patterns 
consistently linked to inflammation and brain health [the Mediterranean diet 
(MDS) and inflammatory potential of diet (EDII)] and five blood-based biomarkers 
of Alzheimer´s disease (AD) in a sample of dementia-free community-dwelling 
older adults.
DESIGN AND SETTING: We used cross-sectional data from the Swedish National Study 
on Aging and Care in Kungsholmen (SNAC-K).
PARTICIPANTS: Participants who were institutionalized, had dementia or 
Parkinson's disease, or had missing data on diet and/or biomarkers were 
excluded. Our study sample consisted of 1907 adults ≥60 years old.
MEASUREMENTS: Adherence to the MDS and EDII was assessed using a validated food 
frequency questionnaire. T-tau, p-tau181, Aβ 42/40, NfL, and GFAP were measured 
in serum. Associations were estimated through quantile regression models at the 
25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles of the biomarkers' levels, and were adjusted 
for potential confounders and stratified by sex, age, and APOE-e4 genotype.
RESULTS: In the whole sample, higher adherence to the MDS was associated with 
lower levels of p-tau181 at the 50th and 75th percentiles [β (95% CI) per 1-SD 
increment = -0.028 (-0.053, -0.002) and -0.036 (-0.072, -0.001), respectively], 
while higher adherence to the EDII was associated with higher levels of NfL at 
the 75th percentile [β (95% CI) per 1-SD increment =0.031 (0.008, 0.053)]. 
Associations with other biomarkers were only apparent at lower levels of their 
distribution. Subgroup analyses showed: 1) a stronger inverse association 
between the MDS and p-tau181 in APOE-e4 carriers than non-carriers, and 2) an 
inverse association of the MDS with GFAP only in participants ≥78 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Diet seems to be associated with biomarkers of AD pathology in 
cognitively intact older adults. Some associations were more apparent in the 
presence of genetic predisposition for AD or advanced age.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100124
PMCID: PMC12434269
PMID: 40089420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


43. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 5;998:177509. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177509.
Epub  2025 Mar 13.

Pharmacological landscape of endoplasmic reticulum stress: Uncovering 
therapeutic avenues for metabolic diseases.

Alotaibi G(1), Alkhammash A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, Shaqra University, Shaqra, 
11961, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: ghalotaibi@su.edu.sa.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, Shaqra University, Shaqra, 
11961, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: alkhammash@su.edu.sa.

The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) plays a fundamental role in maintaining cellular 
homeostasis by ensuring proper protein folding, lipid metabolism, and calcium 
regulation. However, disruptions to ER function, known as ER stress, activate 
the unfolded protein response (UPR) to restore balance. Chronic or unresolved ER 
stress contributes to metabolic dysfunctions, including insulin resistance, 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and neurodegenerative disorders such 
as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies have also 
highlighted the importance of mitochondria-ER contact sites (MERCs) and 
ER-associated inflammation in disease progression. This review explores the 
current pharmacological landscape targeting ER stress, focusing on therapeutic 
strategies for rare metabolic and neurodegenerative diseases. It examines small 
molecules such as tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) and 4-phenylbutyric acid 
(4-PBA), repurposed drugs like 17-AAG (17-N-allylamino-17demethoxygeldanamycin 
(tanespimycin)) and berberine, and phytochemicals such as resveratrol and 
hesperidin. Additionally, it discusses emerging therapeutic areas, including 
soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) inhibitors for metabolic disorders and MERCs 
modulation for neurological diseases. The review emphasizes challenges in 
translating these therapies to clinical applications, such as toxicity, 
off-target effects, limited bioavailability, and the lack of large-scale 
randomized controlled trials (RCTs). It also highlights the potential of 
personalized medicine approaches and pharmacogenomics in optimizing ER 
stress-targeting therapies.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177509
PMID: 40089262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Author's 
declare no conflict of interest.


44. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 5;998:177467. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177467.
Epub  2025 Mar 13.

Neuroprotective potential of 17-oximino-16-arylidene steroids: In vivo and in 
silico investigations.

Singh R(1), Prerna(1), Bansal R(2).

Author information:
(1)University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, 160014, India.
(2)University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, 160014, India. Electronic address: ranju_bansal@pu.ac.in.

Several recent literature reports indicate the strong neuroprotective potential 
of synthetic heterosteroids, still search for potent, safer and effective 
neuroprotective steroidal molecules continues. In the current study, a new 
series of 17-oximino-16-substituted steroids (1-8) has been evaluated in 
MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease in mice and amyloid-β induced Alzheimer's 
disease in rats with an intention to discover an effective and efficient 
neuroprotective molecule. Behavioural studies followed by histopathological and 
estimation of the several neuroinflammatory biochemical parameters such as 
acetylcholinesterase, lipid peroxide, reactive oxygen, and nitric oxide species 
were carried out. A significant improvement in cognitive and locomotive 
dysfunctions was observed after treatment with these compounds. In silico 
molecular docking and simulation studies also correlated with the 
neuroprotective effects of the steroidal oximes 1-8 as strong binding affinities 
for TNF-α, IL-1β, AChE and β-secretase were seen. Among all the compounds, 
4-pyridylidene (3) and 2-pyridylidene (1) substituted steroids displayed maximum 
neuroprotective efficacy in animal models of Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's 
disease, respectively, and produced effects better than standard drugs. Hence, a 
new series of 16-arylideno-17-oximino steroids has been identified as potent 
neuroprotective agents which could be further explored structurally and 
clinically to discover and develop lead drug molecules useful for the treatment 
of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177467
PMID: 40089260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


45. Cell Signal. 2025 Jul;131:111715. doi: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2025.111715. Epub
2025  Mar 13.

Neurodegenerative diseases: Epigenetic regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic 
potential.

Men J(1), Wang X(1), Zhou Y(1), Huang Y(1), Zheng Y(1), Wang Y(1), Yang S(1), 
Chen N(2), Yan N(3), Duan X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology, School of Public Health, Shenyang Medical College, 
Shenyang 110034, PR China.
(2)Liaoning Provincial Health Service Center,Shenyang 110034, PR China.
(3)Department of Medical Applied Technology, Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang 
110034, PR China. Electronic address: yannan@symc.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Toxicology, School of Public Health, Shenyang Medical College, 
Shenyang 110034, PR China. Electronic address: duanxiaoxu@symc.edu.cn.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are a class of diseases in which the 
progressive loss of subtype-specific neurons leads to dysfunction. NDDs include 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), 
and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), among others. Previous studies have 
demonstrated that the pathogenesis of NDDs involves various mechanisms, 
including genetic factors, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and the immune response. 
Recent studies have shown that epigenetic regulation mediates the interactions 
between DNA methylation, chromatin remodeling, histone modification, and 
non-coding RNAs, thus affecting gene transcription. A growing body of research 
links epigenetic modifications to crucial pathways involved in the occurrence 
and development of NDDs. Epigenetics has also been found to regulate and 
maintain nervous system function, and its imbalance is closely related to the 
occurrence and development of NDDs. The present review summarizes focuses on the 
role of epigenetic modifications in the pathogenesis of NDDs and provides an 
overview of the key genes regulated by DNA methylation, histone modification, 
and non-coding RNAs in NDDs. Further, the current research status of epigenetics 
in NDDs is summarized and the potential application of epigenetics in the 
clinical diagnosis and treatment of NDDs is discussed.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2025.111715
PMID: 40089090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing interests or personal relationships 
that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


46. Nitric Oxide. 2025 Jun;156:50-56. doi: 10.1016/j.niox.2025.03.001. Epub 2025
Mar  13.

Increasing nitric oxide availability via ingestion of nitrate-rich beetroot 
juice improves vascular responsiveness in individuals with Alzheimer's Disease.

Pedrinolla A(1), Dorelli G(2), Porcelli S(3), Burleigh M(4), Mendo M(2), 
Martignon C(2), Fonte C(2), Dalle Carbonare LG(5), Easton C(6), Muti E(7), 
Schena F(2), Venturelli M(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular, Computational and Integrative Biology - CIBIO, 
University of Trento, Trento, Italy. Electronic address: 
anna.pedrinolla@unitn.it.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Sciences, University of 
Verona, Verona, Italy.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.
(4)Sport and Physical Activity Research Institute, University of the West of 
Scotland, Blantyre, Scotland, UK.
(5)Department of Engineering for Innovation Medicine, University of Verona, 
Verona, Italy.
(6)Sport and Physical Activity Research Institute, University of the West of 
Scotland, Blantyre, Scotland, UK; School of Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure 
and Society, Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.
(7)Monsignor Mazzali Foundation, Mantua, Italy.
(8)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Sciences, University of 
Verona, Verona, Italy; Department of Internal Medicine Section of Geriatrics, 
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

Poor vascular function and reduced nitric oxide (NO)-bioavailability have been 
recognized to be involved in aging and Alzheimer's Disease (AD). A 
non-pharmacological treatment that is gaining clinical interest in the context 
of vascular function is dietary inorganic nitrate (NO3-) supplementation which 
increases NO-bioavailability through the NO3- -nitrite (NO2-) - NO pathway. This 
treatment has been demonstrated to improve vascular function in several clinical 
populations, but no study has investigated the effects in individuals with AD. 
Therefore, changes in plasma NO3- and NO2- and vascular responsiveness 
(hyperemic response to single-passive leg movement (ΔPLM)) were measured in 
individuals with AD (n = 10, 76 ± 9 years), healthy elderly (OLD, n = 10, 75 ± 6 
years), and young individuals (YN, n = 10, 25 ± 4 years) before (T0) and hourly 
for 4 h (T1, T2, T3, and T4) after ingestion of either NO3--rich beetroot juice 
(BR) or a placebo (PLA). No changes in NO3- and NO2-, nor ΔPLM were detected in 
any group following PLA intake. Plasma NO3- and NO2- increased significantly in 
all three groups at T1 (p < 0.001) and remained elevated for the rest of the 
trial. The same trend was found in ΔPLM, which significantly increased in all 
three groups over the time (p < 0.001). However, AD exhibited significantly 
lower ΔPLM values at any time point compared to YN (p < 0.001) and OLD 
(p < 0.001). These data suggest that AD-individuals included in this study were 
able to reduce NO3- to NO2- and to increase NO-mediated vascular responsiveness 
as non-AD-individuals. Other mechanisms, beyond NO-bioavailability, may be 
involved in vascular dysfunction in patients with AD. This research suggests 
that an acute administration of inorganic nitrate is not enough to revert 
chronically adapted vascular properties and completely restore vascular 
responsiveness in AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.niox.2025.03.001
PMID: 40089052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Exp Neurol. 2025 Jun;388:115217. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115217. Epub
2025  Mar 13.

Effects of resistance exercise on behavioral and molecular changes in transgenic 
female mice for Alzheimer's disease in early and advanced stages.

da Silva EA(1), Faber J(2), Penitente AR(3), Fernandes J(1), Bertolucci PHF(2), 
Longo BM(1), Arida RM(4).

Author information:
(1)Federal University of Sao Paulo - Physiology Department, Brazil.
(2)Federal University of Sao Paulo - Neurology and Neurosurgery Department, 
Brazil.
(3)Federal University of Ouro Pretro, Brazil.
(4)Federal University of Sao Paulo - Physiology Department, Brazil. Electronic 
address: arida@unifesp.br.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition that affects memory 
and cognition, with a higher prevalence in women. Given the lack of effective 
treatment, physical activity stands out as a complementary approach to prevent 
or delay disease progression. While numerous studies on humans and animals 
indicate that aerobic exercise induces brain changes, the impact of resistance 
exercise (RE) on AD is not fully understood.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the behavioral and molecular changes 
induced by RE in female transgenic mice with AD at the early and advanced stages 
of the disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Adult (initial phase - 7 to 8 months of age, n = 32) and 
adult/elderly (advanced phase - 22 to 23 months of age, n = 32) female mice 
(2xTg-AD) for the APPSWE/PS1dE9 mutation were subjected to a four-week RE 
protocol. Mobility, anxiety-like behavior, long-term memory (LTM), and 
depressive-like behavior were assessed. Beta-amyloid (βA) and cytokines were 
quantified using the ELISA technique.
RESULTS: There was a progressive increase in strength in both trained groups at 
different ages. RE reversed memory deficits only in adult AD animals and the 
anxiety-like behavior only in adult/elderly AD animals. RE reversed 
depressive-like behavior in adult and adult/elderly AD animals. RE reduced βA 
only in adult AD animals. RE modified the expression of several cytokines in 
animals in the early and advanced stage of AD.
CONCLUSION: RE can be a promising strategy to minimize the deleterious effects 
of AD; however, its effectiveness may be more limited to the early stages of the 
disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115217
PMID: 40089002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


48. Neuroscience. 2025 Apr 19;572:232-247. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.03.015.  Epub 2025 Mar 13.

Enteric nervous system dysfunction as a driver of central nervous system 
disorders: The Forgotten brain in neurological disease.

Hajjeh O(1), Rajab I(2), Bdair M(1), Saife S(1), Zahran A(1), Nazzal I(1), 
AbuZahra MI(1), Jallad H(3), Abukhalil MM(1), Hallak M(1), Al-Said OS(4), 
Al-Braik R(4), Sawaftah Z(1), Milhem F(1), Almur O(1), Saife S(1), Aburemaileh 
M(1), Abuhilal A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department Of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, An-Najah 
National University, Nablus, Palestine.
(2)Internal Medicine Department, St. Joseph's University Medical Center, 703 
Main St, Paterson, NJ 07503, USA.
(3)Department Of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, An-Najah 
National University, Nablus, Palestine. Electronic address: 
hammamjallad0@gmail.com.
(4)Department Of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Jordan University of Science and 
Technology, Irbid, Jordan.
(5)Neuroscience Initiative, Advanced Science Research Center, The City 
University of New York (CUNY) Graduate Center, New York, NY 10031, USA.

The Enteric Nervous System (ENS), often called the "second brain," is a complex 
network of neurons and glial cells within the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. It 
functions autonomously while maintaining close communication with the central 
nervous system (CNS) via the gut-brain axis (GBA). ENS dysfunction plays a 
crucial role in neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental disorders, including 
Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and autism spectrum disorder. 
Disruptions such as altered neurotransmission, gut microbiota imbalance, and 
neuroinflammation contribute to disease pathogenesis. The GBA enables 
bidirectional communication through the vagus nerve, gut hormones, immune 
signaling, and microbial metabolites, linking gut health to neurological 
function. ENS dysregulation is implicated in conditions like irritable bowel 
syndrome (IBS) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), influencing systemic and 
CNS pathology through neuroinflammation and impaired barrier integrity. This 
review highlights emerging therapeutic strategies targeting ENS dysfunction, 
including prebiotics, probiotics, fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), and 
vagus nerve stimulation, which offer novel ways to modulate gut-brain 
interactions. Unlike previous perspectives that view the ENS as a passive 
disease marker, this review repositions it as an active driver of neurological 
disorders. By integrating advances in ENS biomarkers, therapeutic targets, and 
GBA modulation, this article presents a paradigm shift-emphasizing ENS 
dysfunction as a fundamental mechanism in neurodegeneration and 
neurodevelopmental disorders. This perspective paves the way for innovative 
diagnostics, personalized gut-targeted therapies, and a deeper understanding of 
the ENS's role in brain health and disease.

Copyright © 2025 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.03.015
PMID: 40088964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


49. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2025 May;26(5):105546. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2025.105546. 
Epub 2025 Mar 25.

What do Professionals Think of Specific Care Recommendations for Vascular 
Cognitive Impairment? A Delphi Study With Health Care Professionals.

van de Schraaf SAJ(1), Rhodius-Meester HFM(2), Muller M(3), Visser-Meily JMA(4), 
de Vugt ME(5), Sizoo EM(6), Hertogh CMPM(6).

Author information:
(1)Amsterdam UMC, Location VUmc, Medicine for Older People, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands; Amsterdam UMC, Location VUmc, Internal Medicine, Geriatric Medicine 
Section, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health, Aging & Later 
Life, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
s.vandeschraaf@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Amsterdam UMC, Location VUmc, Internal Medicine, Geriatric Medicine Section, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Amsterdam 
UMC, Location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Geriatric Medicine, 
Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(3)Amsterdam UMC, Location VUmc, Internal Medicine, Geriatric Medicine Section, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health, Aging & Later Life, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Cardiovascular Sciences, Atherosclerosis & 
Ischemic Syndromes, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation, Physical Therapy Science & Sports, University 
Medical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands; UMC Utrecht Brain Center, 
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(5)Alzheimer Center Limburg, School for Mental Health and Neuroscience, 
Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(6)Amsterdam UMC, Location VUmc, Medicine for Older People, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health, Aging & Later Life, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) is an umbrella term covering all 
cognitive impairment from mild cognitive deficits to dementia due to vascular 
etiologies. VCI is highly prevalent within dementia and stroke care pathways, 
but specific recommendations for care for people with VCI are lacking. 
Therefore, we formulated specific recommendations for care for people with VCI 
and tested these in a panel of health care professionals.
DESIGN: Modified Delphi study.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Purposefully sampled health care professionals in the 
dementia and stroke fields.
METHODS: Based on Dutch care standards for dementia and stroke and previous 
studies, the research team formulated 27 statements. In 3 rounds, participants 
were asked on a 4-point Likert scale how much they agreed with statements. They 
could elaborate on their answer in open fields. After each round, level of 
agreement was calculated. Subsequently, it was evaluated whether consensus was 
reached. Qualitative data guided potential modifications to the statements and 
was analyzed for overarching themes in argumentation.
RESULTS: Thirty-four participants (primary and secondary care physicians, 
nurses, psychologists, occupational therapists, and case managers in dementia 
care) were included in the expert panel. Of the formulated statements, 23 were 
accepted after 3 rounds. Accepted statements included recommendations on 
recognition and management of specific symptoms, awareness of care opportunities 
in and collaboration between care pathways and networks, and the importance of 
timely care. Some nuancing comments were raised on feasibility and specificity 
of the recommendations.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Experts agreed on multiple specific 
recommendations for VCI care across the patient journey, balancing specific and 
targeted care with further integration of the different care networks. Despite 
some concerns on feasibility and the balance between disease-centered and 
person-centered care, the expert-agreed statements can provide guidance in 
striving toward tailored care and aid in bringing together stroke and dementia 
networks for people with VCI.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2025.105546
PMID: 40088940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors declare no conflicts of 
interest.


50. Phytomedicine. 2025 May;140:156612. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156612. Epub
2025  Mar 7.

Schisandra total lignans ameliorate neuronal ferroptosis in 3xTg-AD mice via 
regulating NADK/NADPH/GSH pathway.

Wu Y(1), Wei M(2), Wang M(3), Guo M(4), Yu H(4), Chen Y(5), Xu T(6), Zhou Y(7).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
China; Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Blood-Stasis-Toxin Syndrome, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053, China.
(2)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
China; Innovation Center of Yangtze River Delta, Zhejiang University, Jiaxing 
314100, China.
(3)Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Blood-Stasis-Toxin Syndrome, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053, China.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
China.
(5)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
China. Electronic address: chenyong1@zju.edu.cn.
(6)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
China. Electronic address: tfxu@zju.edu.cn.
(7)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
China; Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Blood-Stasis-Toxin Syndrome, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053, China; 
Innovation Center of Yangtze River Delta, Zhejiang University, Jiaxing 314100, 
China. Electronic address: zhouy@zcmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
with limited treatments. Schisandra total lignans (STL), the primary active 
component of Schisandra chinensis, shows potential in alleviating AD-related 
symptoms, though the mechanisms remain unclear.
PURPOSE: Considering the promoting effect of neuronal ferroptosis on AD and the 
neuroprotective activity of STL, this study aimed to investigate the impact of 
STL on AD neuronal ferroptosis and elucidate its underlying mechanisms.
METHODS: This study used 3xTg-AD mice and SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing APPswe as 
models. UHPLC/Q-TOF-MS was applied for identifying components in STL extract and 
the plasma of 3xTg-AD mice, as well as to detect cellular endogenous metabolites 
for one-carbon metabolism analysis. Behavioral tests, including the Y maze, 
novel object recognition, Morris water maze, and open field, were conducted to 
assess the cognitive function and emotional state. Histopathological 
examinations were performed using immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, 
Nissl staining, and transmission electron microscopy. The GSH, GSSG, NAD(H), 
NADP(H), and MDA levels, as well as GPX and GR activity were measured using 
assay kits. ROS, Fe2+, and lipid peroxidation levels were detected with probes. 
Protein expression was evaluated by Western blot. Molecular docking, molecular 
dynamics simulations and cellular thermal shift assay were performed to analyze 
the STL-NADK interactions.
RESULTS: Behavioral tests indicated that STL alleviated cognitive impairments 
and anxiety in 3xTg-AD mice. Histological analysis showed that STL decreased 
hippocampal Aβ levels, inhibited hippocampal neuronal ferroptosis, and mitigated 
synaptic damage. Cellular assays demonstrated that STL alleviated APPswe 
overexpression-induced ferroptosis and synaptic damage by activating the 
NADK/NADPH/GSH pathway, with NADK knockdown abolishing this neuroprotective 
effect of STL. Computational analysis and cellular thermal shift assay 
identified Gomisin D as the key STL component with strong affinity for NADK, 
driving its neuroprotective effects.
CONCLUSION: NADK emerges as a novel potential therapeutic target for AD, with 
STL activating NADK, promoting NADPH and GSH production, thereby mitigating 
neuronal ferroptosis in AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156612
PMID: 40088743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Yuying Wu, 
Mengying Wei, Mengyao Wang, Minsong Guo, HengyuanYu, Yong Chen, Tengfei Xu, and 
Yuan Zhou declare no competing financial interest.


51. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Apr;33(4):1785-1802. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01715-z.  Epub 2025 Mar 15.

Interplay between PI3k/AKT signaling and caspase pathway in Alzheimer disease: 
mechanism and therapeutic implications.

Bhatia V(1), Vikram V(2), Chandel A(3), Rattan A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, CT University Ludhiana, Ludhiana, Punjab, 142024, 
India. Vandana.bhatia40@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, CT University Ludhiana, Ludhiana, Punjab, 142024, 
India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Laureate Institute of Pharmacy Kathog, Kangra, 
177101, India.

Alzheimer's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by cognitive 
impairment, neuronal loss, and synaptic dysfunction. The interplay between the 
phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) signaling pathway and the 
caspase-mediated apoptotic cascade plays a pivotal role in its progression. The 
signaling pathway responsible for neuronal survival also regulates synaptic 
plasticity and resistance to oxidative stress, whereas caspase activation 
accelerates neurodegeneration by triggering cell death and inflammation. 
Dysregulation of these pathways leads to amyloid-beta (Aβ) accumulation, tau 
hyperphosphorylation, and mitochondrial dysfunction, creating a negative 
feedback loop and accelerating disease progression. Emerging treatment methods 
that target PI3K/AKT activation and caspase inhibition have showed promise in 
preclinical models, preventing neuronal apoptosis while retaining cognitive 
function. This review investigates the molecular processes driving PI3K/AKT and 
caspase crosstalk, their significance in Alzheimer's disease, and prospective 
therapeutic strategies aiming at regulating these pathways to improve disease 
outcomes.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01715-z
PMID: 40088370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have not disclosed any competing interests. Ethical Statement: This review 
article is based on previously published studies and does not involve any new 
studies with human participants or animals conducted by the authors. All 
referenced studies were conducted by ethical standards, including the 1964 
Declaration of Helsinki and its subsequent amendments, as applicable.


52. Palliat Med. 2025 May;39(5):563-573. doi: 10.1177/02692163251324796. Epub
2025  Mar 15.

Advance care planning and quality of life: A qualitative interview study in 
people with young-onset dementia and their family caregivers.

Maters J(1)(2), Perry M(1)(2)(3), de Wit T(4), Koopmans RTCM(1)(2)(5), de Vugt 
ME(6), Bakker C(1)(2)(7), van der Steen JT(1)(2)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary and Community Care, Radboud university medical center, 
Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(2)Radboudumc Alzheimer Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, Radboud university medical center, Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Mijzo, Center for Elderly Care, Waalwijk, the Netherlands.
(5)Joachim en Anna, Center for Specialized Geriatric Care, Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands.
(6)Alzheimer Center Limburg, Mental Health and Neuroscience research institute, 
Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(7)Groenhuysen, Center for Geriatric Care, Roosendaal, the Netherlands.
(8)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(9)Cicely Saunders Institute, King's College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: The importance of palliative care and advance care planning in 
dementia is increasingly recognized. However, little is known about the distinct 
needs and preferences of people with young-onset dementia.
AIM: To explore how people with young-onset dementia and their family caregivers 
experience quality of life, and how these experiences shape their views on the 
future, palliative care needs, and advance care planning.
DESIGN: A qualitative interview study, using inductive thematic analysis.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Ten community-dwelling people with young-onset dementia 
and their family caregivers from the Netherlands.
RESULTS: Four themes were found: sense of self, connection to others, acceptance 
versus resistance in the face of adversity, and orientation toward the future 
versus focus on the present. The first two themes represent the main aspects of 
quality of life. The third theme covers acceptance versus resistance in coping 
with the disease, support, and the future. The expectations of a decrease in 
quality of life could adversely affect the attitude toward the future and thus 
reduce the willingness to engage in advance care planning, which relates to the 
final theme. Quality of life explicitly influenced treatment decisions for those 
who engaged in advance care planning.
CONCLUSIONS: The perception of young-onset dementia and its impact on quality of 
life varies among people with young-onset dementia and their family caregivers, 
but common values include a sense of self and connection to others. Advance care 
planning should be introduced as a way to protect these values and align them 
with palliative care goals.

DOI: 10.1177/02692163251324796
PMCID: PMC12033381
PMID: 40088124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


53. J Neuroimaging. 2025 Mar-Apr;35(2):e70035. doi: 10.1111/jon.70035.

Arterial Spin Labeling MRI in Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review of 
Cerebral Perfusion Biomarkers.

Bernetti C(1)(2), D'Andrea V(1)(2), Buoso A(1)(2), Barbalace I(1)(2), Greco 
F(2)(3), Pilato F(1)(4), Calandrelli R(5), Di Lazzaro V(1)(4), Zobel BB(1)(2), 
Mallio CA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Campus Bio-Medico, Rome, Italy.
(2)Research Unit of Radiology, Department of Medicine and Surgery, Università 
Campus Bio-Medico di Roma, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Radiology, Cittadella della Salute Azienda Sanitaria Locale di 
Lecce, Lecce, Italy.
(4)Unit of Neurology, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Campus Bio-Medico, 
Roma, Italy.
(5)Radiology and Neuroradiology Unit, Department of Imaging, Radiation Therapy 
and Hematology, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Fondazione Policlinico 
Universitario Agostino Gemelli-IRCCS, Roma, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a leading cause of dementia. Arterial 
spin labeling (ASL) MRI, particularly at 3 Tesla (3T), offers a noninvasive 
method to assess cerebral blood flow alterations, which are believed to be early 
indicators of AD.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the utility of 3T ASL MRI in 
identifying cerebral perfusion biomarkers for the diagnosis and management of 
AD, assess its prognostic value, and compare it to other imaging modalities, 
such as PET.
DATA SOURCES: A systematic literature search was conducted following the 
Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines 
across PubMed, Cochrane Library, and Scopus using keywords related to "ASL," "3T 
MRI," and "AD."
STUDY SELECTION: Studies were included if they used 3T ASL MRI to investigate 
CBF in AD. Reviews, preclinical studies, case reports, studies lacking 3T ASL 
MRI, or those focusing on other dementias or mild cognitive impairment without 
an AD comparison were excluded. Data extracted included study design, sample 
characteristics, imaging techniques, parameters measured, and outcomes. A 
qualitative synthesis of findings highlights CBF patterns and biomarkers 
associated with AD.
RESULTS: Findings demonstrated hypoperfusion in the hippocampus, precuneus, and 
posterior cingulate cortex, distinguishing AD from normal aging and other forms 
of dementia. CBF patterns are often correlated with the severity and progression 
of cognitive impairment. ASL MRI at 3T demonstrated diagnostic accuracy 
comparable to that of PET while being noninvasive and radiation free.
CONCLUSION: ASL MRI at 3T could be a valuable tool for the early diagnosis and 
monitoring of AD. Its noninvasive nature makes it ideal for repeated measures 
and longitudinal studies. Further research should focus on standardizing 
protocols and validating their use in larger populations.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroimaging published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of American Society of Neuroimaging.

DOI: 10.1111/jon.70035
PMCID: PMC11909582
PMID: 40087957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


54. Glia. 2025 Jul;73(7):1437-1451. doi: 10.1002/glia.70015. Epub 2025 Mar 14.

Amyloid-β Dysregulates Oligodendroglial Lineage Cell Dynamics and Myelination 
via PKC in the Zebrafish Spinal Cord.

Balantzategi U(1)(2), Gaminde-Blasco A(1)(2), Kearns CA(3), Bayón-Cordero 
L(1)(2), Sánchez-Gómez MV(1)(2), Zugaza JL(2)(4)(5), Appel B(3), Alberdi 
E(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), 
Leioa, Spain.
(2)Achucarro Basque Center for Neuroscience, Leioa, Spain.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Section of Developmental Biology, University of 
Colorado-Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, Colorado, USA.
(4)Department of Genetics, Physical Anthropology and Animal Physiology, 
University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), Leioa, Spain.
(5)IKERBASQUE Basque Foundation for Science, Bilbao, Spain.

Soluble forms of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide have been proposed as candidates to 
induce oligodendrocyte (OL) and myelin dysfunctions in the early stages of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Nevertheless, little is known about how Aβ 
affects OL differentiation and myelination in vivo, and the underlying molecular 
mechanisms. In this study, we explored the effects of a brain intraventricular 
injection of Aβ on OLs and myelin in the developing spinal cord of zebrafish 
larvae. Using quantitative fluorescent in situ RNA hybridization assays, we 
demonstrated that Aβ altered myrf and mbp mRNA levels and the regional 
distribution of mbp during larval development, suggesting an early 
differentiation of OLs. Through live imaging of Tg(myrf:mScarlet) and 
Tg(mbpa:tagRFP) zebrafish lines, both crossed with Tg(olig2:EGFP), we found that 
Aβ increased the number of myrf + and mbp + OLs in the dorsal spinal cord at 72 
hpf and 5 dpf, respectively, without affecting total cell numbers. Furthermore, 
Aβ also increased the number of Sox10+cells, myelin sheaths per OL, and the 
number of myelinated axons in the dorsal spinal cord at 8 dpf compared to 
vehicle-injected control animals. Interestingly, the treatment of Aβ-injected 
zebrafish with the pan-PKC inhibitor Gö6983 restored the aforementioned 
alterations in OLs and myelin to control levels. Altogether, not only do we 
demonstrate that Aβ induces a precocious oligodendroglial differentiation 
leading to dysregulated myelination, but we also identified PKC as a key player 
in Aβ-induced pathology.

© 2025 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/glia.70015
PMCID: PMC12121469
PMID: 40087862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


55. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Mar 15;17(1):60. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01706-w.

Beyond expectations: investigating nilotinib's potential in attenuating 
neurodegeneration in alzheimer's disease.

Tocci D(1), Fogel M(2), Gupta V(1), Kim P(1), Latimer J(1), Adlimoghaddam 
A(3)(4)(5), Robison LS(6), Albensi BC(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Barry and Judy Silverman College of 
Pharmacy, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL, USA.
(2)Dr. Kiran C. Patel College of Osteopathic Medicine, Nova Southeastern 
University, Fort Lauderdale, FL, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Center for Alzheimer's Disease and Related 
Disorders, Neurosciences Institute, Southern Illinois University School of 
Medicine, Springfield, IL, 62794- 9628, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield, IL, USA.
(5)Department of Medical Microbiology, Immunology, and Cell Biology, Southern 
Illinois University School of Medicine, Springfield, IL, USA.
(6)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, College of Psychology, Nova 
Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL, USA.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Barry and Judy Silverman College of 
Pharmacy, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL, USA. 
balbensi@nova.edu.
(8)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Max Rady College of Medicine, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada. balbensi@nova.edu.
(9)St. Boniface Hospital Research, Winnipeg, MB, Canada. balbensi@nova.edu.

Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), pose a formidable 
global challenge. While therapeutic options are available, their limitations are 
significant, necessitating the development of innovative treatment approaches. 
Here, we highlight the importance of repurposing drugs and discuss the future of 
drug treatments for AD. We review the potential of tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
(TKI) for mitigating AD pathology and symptoms, as well as neurodegenerative 
processes more broadly. We focus on nilotinib, a selective BCR-ABL tyrosine 
kinase inhibitor, which has unique mechanisms of action involving the modulation 
of cell responses and removal of toxic proteins associated with AD pathogenesis. 
Encouraging studies have demonstrated its efficacy, calling for further 
investigation through clinical trials to assess its potential in various 
neurodegenerative conditions. However, despite these promising preclinical 
findings, no clinical studies have yet conclusively demonstrated its efficacy in 
treating AD. Considering the future directions in AD research, personalized 
medicine approaches hold promise by incorporating patient-specific factors, 
including sex and gender differences, to tailor nilotinib treatment for improved 
efficacy and safety profiles.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01706-w
PMCID: PMC11909998
PMID: 40087766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


56. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Mar 14;20(1):33. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00819-y.

Alzheimer's disease neuropathology and its estimation with fluid and imaging 
biomarkers.

Thal DR(1)(2), Poesen K(3)(4), Vandenberghe R(5)(6), De Meyer S(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Imaging and Pathology, Laboratory for Neuropathology, Leuven 
Brain Institute, KU Leuven, Herestraat 49, Leuven, 3000, Belgium. 
dietmar.thal@kuleuven.be.
(2)Department of Pathology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. 
dietmar.thal@kuleuven.be.
(3)Department of Neurosciences, Laboratory for Molecular Neurobiomarker 
Research, Leuven Brain Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium.
(5)Department of Neurosciences, Laboratory for Cognitive Neurology, Leuven Brain 
Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(6)Department of Neurology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is neuropathologically characterized by the 
extracellular deposition of the amyloid-β peptide (Aβ) and the intraneuronal 
accumulation of abnormal phosphorylated tau (τ)-protein (p-τ). Most frequently, 
these hallmark lesions are accompanied by other co-pathologies in the brain that 
may contribute to cognitive impairment, such as vascular lesions, intraneuronal 
accumulation of phosphorylated transactive-response DNA-binding protein 43 
(TDP-43), and/or α-synuclein (αSyn) aggregates. To estimate the extent of these 
AD and co-pathologies in patients, several biomarkers have been developed. 
Specific tracers target and visualize Aβ plaques, p-τ and αSyn pathology or 
inflammation by positron emission tomography. In addition to these imaging 
biomarkers, cerebrospinal fluid, and blood-based biomarker assays reflecting 
AD-specific or non-specific processes are either already in clinical use or in 
development. In this review, we will introduce the pathological lesions of the 
AD brain, the related biomarkers, and discuss to what extent the respective 
biomarkers estimate the pathology determined at post-mortem histopathological 
analysis. It became evident that initial stages of Aβ plaque and p-τ pathology 
are not detected with the currently available biomarkers. Interestingly, p-τ 
pathology precedes Aβ deposition, especially in the beginning of the disease 
when biomarkers are unable to detect it. Later, Aβ takes the lead and 
accelerates p-τ pathology, fitting well with the known evolution of biomarker 
measures over time. Some co-pathologies still lack clinically established 
biomarkers today, such as TDP-43 pathology or cortical microinfarcts. In 
summary, specific biomarkers for AD-related pathologies allow accurate clinical 
diagnosis of AD based on pathobiological parameters. Although current biomarkers 
are excellent measures for the respective pathologies, they fail to detect 
initial stages of the disease for which post-mortem analysis of the brain is 
still required. Accordingly, neuropathological studies remain essential to 
understand disease development especially in early stages. Moreover, there is an 
urgent need for biomarkers reflecting co-pathologies, such as limbic 
predominant, age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy-related pathology, which is known 
to modify the disease by interacting with p-τ. Novel biomarker approaches such 
as extracellular vesicle-based assays and cryptic RNA/peptides may help to 
better detect these co-pathologies in the future.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00819-y
PMCID: PMC11907863
PMID: 40087672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All autopsies were carried out according to local legislation with 
appropriate consent. Ethical approval for the use of cases was granted by the 
ethical committee of Ulm University (Germany, study 54/08) and UZ/KU-Leuven 
ethical committee (Belgium). The studies reviewed here covering the 
retrospective analysis of samples and data were approved by the UZ/KU-Leuven 
ethical committee (S-59295, S-65147, S-66705) (Belgium). The samples obtained 
from the UK were received from the brainbank donated for research by GE 
Healthcare after the phase III flutemetamol autopsy study had concluded 
(ClinicalTrials. gov identifiers NCT01165554, and NCT02090855). Consent for 
publication: Not applicable for this study, which did not use person’s data. 
Only anonymized or pseudonymized data were processed. Competing interests: DRT 
collaborated with Novartis Pharma AG (Switzerland), Probiodrug (Germany), and 
GE-Healthcare (UK) and received consultant honoraria from Muna Therapeutics 
(Belgium). DRT is vice chair of the Alzheimer's Association ISTAART professional 
interest area “The eye as a biomarker for AD”. RV’s institution has clinical 
trial agreements (RV as PI) with Alector, AviadoBio, Biogen, Denali, J&J, Eli 
Lilly and UCB. RV’s institution has consultancy agreements (RV as member of 
DSMB) with AC Immune. RV was global PI of the industry-sponsored pivotal phase 2 
flutemetamol trial. KP has a consultancy agreement with Eisai. KP’s institution 
has biomarker trial agreements with ADx NeuroSciences, Euroimmun and Fujirebio. 
KP is member of the scientific advisory board of Stichting Alzheimer 
Onderzoek/Fondation Recherche Alzheimer, Belgium. SDM reported no competing 
interests.


57. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2025 Mar 15;25(1):23. doi:
10.1007/s11910-025-01410-0.

Traumatic Brain Injury and Gut Microbiome: The Role of the Gut-Brain Axis in 
Neurodegenerative Processes.

Lin D(1)(2), Howard A(1)(2), Raihane AS(1)(2), Di Napoli M(3), Cáceres 
E(4)(5)(6), Ortiz M(1)(2), Davis J(1)(2), Abdelrahman AN(1)(2), Divani AA(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of New Mexico, MSC10-5620, Albuquerque, 
NM, 87131, USA.
(3)Neurological Service, dell'Annunziata Hospital, Sulmona, L'Aquila, Italy.
(4)Bioscience, School of Engineering, Universidad de La Sabana, Chía, Colombia.
(5)Department of Critical Care, Clínica Universidad de La Sabana, Chía, 
Colombia.
(6)Unisabana Center for Translational Science, School of Medicine, Universidad 
de La Sabana, Chía, Colombia.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of New Mexico, MSC10-5620, Albuquerque, 
NM, 87131, USA. adivani@gmail.com.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: A deeper understanding of the communication network between 
the gut microbiome and the central nervous system, termed the gut-brain axis 
(GBA), has revealed new potential targets for intervention to prevent the 
development of neurodegenerative disease associated with tramatic brain injury 
(TBI). This review aims to comprehensively examine the role of GBA 
post-traumatic brain injury (TBI).
RECENT FINDINGS: The GBA functions through neural, metabolic, immune, and 
endocrine systems, creating bidirectional signaling pathways that modulate brain 
and gastrointestinal (GI) tract physiology. TBI perturbs these signaling 
pathways, producing pathophysiological feedback loops in the GBA leading to 
dysbiosis (i.e., a perturbed gut microbiome, impaired brain-blood barrier, 
impaired intestinal epithelial barrier (i.e., "leaky gut"), and a maladaptive, 
systemic inflammatory response. Damage to the CNS associated with TBI leads to 
GI dysmotility, which promotes small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO). 
SIBO has been associated with the early stages of neurodegenerative conditions 
such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. Many of the bacteria associated 
with this overgrowth promote inflammation and, in rodent models, have been shown 
to compromise the structural integrity of the intestinal mucosal barrier, 
causing malabsorption of essential nutrients and further exacerbating dysbiosis. 
TBI-induced pathophysiology is strongly associated with an increased risk of 
neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, 
which represents a significant public health burden and challenge for patients 
and their families. A healthy gut microbiome has been shown to promote improved 
recovery from TBI and prevent the development of neurodegenerative disease, as 
well as other chronic complications. The role of the gut microbiome in brain 
health post-TBI demonstrates the potential for microbiome-targeted interventions 
to mitigate TBI-associated comorbidities. Promising new evidence on prebiotics, 
probiotics, diet, and fecal microbiota transplantation may lead to new 
therapeutic options for improving the quality of life for patients with TBI. 
Still, many of these preliminary findings must be explored further in clinical 
settings. This review covers the current understanding of the GBA in the setting 
of TBI and how the gut microbiome may provide a novel therapeutic target for 
treatment in this patient population.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11910-025-01410-0
PMID: 40087204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Conflict of Interest: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Human and Animal Rights and Informed Consent: This article 
does not contain any studies with human or animal subjects performed by any of 
the authors.


58. Food Res Int. 2025 Apr;207:116049. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2025.116049. Epub
2025  Feb 25.

Small intestine-residing probiotics suppress neurotoxic bile acid production via 
extracellular vesicle-mediated inhibition of Clostridium scindens.

Chin WL(1), Lee BH(2), Hsu QY(3), Hou CY(4), Pai MC(5), Lin CW(6), Hsu WH(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Community Medicine, E-Da Hospital, I-Shou 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; Department of Chemical Engineering and Institute 
of Biotechnology and Chemical Engineering, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung 824005, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Horticultural Sciences, National Chiayi University, Chiayi 
600355, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Food Safety/Hygiene and Risk Management, College of Medicine, 
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701401, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Seafood Science, National Kaohsiung University of Science and 
Technology, Kaohsiung 811213, Taiwan.
(5)Division of Behavioral Neurology, Department of Neurology, National Cheng 
Kung University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, 
Tainan 701401, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Family Medicine and Community Medicine, E-Da Hospital, I-Shou 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; School of Medicine, College of Medicine, I-Shou 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Food Safety/Hygiene and Risk Management, College of Medicine, 
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701401, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
whhsu@mail.ncku.edu.tw.

Dysbiosis in gut microbiota and abnormalities in bile acids have been linked to 
neurodegenerative diseases. While many studies have focused on the relationship 
between colonic bacteria and Alzheimer's disease (AD), this study propose that 
alterations in the small intestine microbiota may play a more critical role. 
This is because the small intestine is pivotal in recycling bile acids through 
enterohepatic circulation. This study uses amyloid precursor protein knock-in 
(APPNL-G-F/NL-G-F) transgenic mice to investigate the association between 
intestinal microbiota and bile acid metabolism. The results showed that the 
accumulation of beta-amyloid (Aβ) leads to a significant decrease in 
Lactobacillus johnsonii and a notable increase in bacteria of the genus 
Clostridium in the small intestine, which are important microorganisms for 
producing toxic bile acids. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) involved in bacterial 
interactions and bacteria-host interactions are currently a focus of research. 
Treatment with L. johnsonii-derived EVs at concentrations of 1010 and 1012/mL) 
inhibited the growth of Clostridium scindens and suppressed the production of 
toxic secondary lithocholic acid (TLA) at non-cytotoxic concentrations (108/mL). 
Furthermore, the removal of small RNA from L. johnsonii-derived EVs resulted in 
the loss of their ability to suppress TLA production. These results suggest that 
the small intestine microbiota may play a more critical role than the colonic 
microbiota in AD. Deterioration of small intestine microbiota led to the 
metabolism disruption of certain secondary bile acids, which have been reported 
to exacerbate AD pathology. The EVs released by L. johnsonii, which is abundant 
in the small intestine, can suppress toxic TLA and have the potential to be 
developed into health-promoting probiotics.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2025.116049
PMID: 40086955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


59. Int Psychogeriatr. 2025 Mar;37(2):100012. doi: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2024.100012. 
Epub 2024 Dec 4.

Correlation between changes in apathy and cognition in Alzheimer's disease 
associated apathy: Analysis of the Apathy in Dementia Methylphenidate Trial 2 
(ADMET 2).

Sankhe K(1), Tumati S(1), Perin J(2), Rivet L(1), Vieira D(1), Rosenberg PB(3), 
Herrmann N(4), Shade D(2), Lerner AJ(5), Padala PR(6), Brawman-Mintzer O(7), van 
Dyck CH(8), Porsteinsson AP(9), Craft S(10), Levey AI(11), Mintzer J(7), Lanctôt 
KL(12).

Author information:
(1)Sunnybrook Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Johns Hopkins University, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.
(3)Johns Hopkins University, Department of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(4)Sunnybrook Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(6)Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, USA.
(7)Ralph H. Johnson VA Medical Center, Medical University of South Carolina, 
Charleston, SC, USA.
(8)Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(9)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA.
(10)Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(11)Emory Goizueta Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(12)Sunnybrook Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic 
address: krista.lanctot@sunnybrook.ca.

BACKGROUND: Previous trials have shown improvements in both apathy and cognition 
with methylphenidate (MPH).
OBJECTIVES: To assess whether changes in apathy correlated with changes in 
cognition in the Apathy in Dementia Methylphenidate Trial 2 (ADMET 2).
PARTICIPANTS: Mild to moderate AD patients with clinically significant apathy 
randomized to MPH (20 mg/day) or placebo for 6 months.
MEASUREMENTS: Apathy was measured with the Neuropsychiatric Inventory-apathy 
(NPI-A) domain. Cognition was measured using the Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE), 
Hopkins Verbal Learning (immediate [HVLT-I], delayed [HVLT-D] recall), Digit 
Span (Forward [DF], Backward [DB]), Trail Making (TMT-A, TMT-B), Action Verbal 
Fluency (AV), Category Fluency (CF), and the Short Boston Naming Test (BNT).
DESIGN: Linear mixed models included cognitive change scores as dependent 
variables and time, treatment, change in NPI-A and the interaction between 
treatment and change in NPI-A as independent variables, which were additionally 
adjusted for baseline NPI-A and cognitive scores, age, sex, level of education 
and presence of diabetes.
RESULTS: 199 participants (66 % male) were included (98-MPH, 101-placebo). Among 
all participants, worsening CF was associated with worsening apathy (-0.15 
(0.05), p = .003). In addition, change in HVLT-I was associated with the 
interaction between changes in apathy and treatment (-0.31 (0.07), 
p = 0.0000158).
CONCLUSION: Changes in apathy are mostly independent of cognitive changes and 
apathy response to MPH may be independent from cognition. These results are 
consistent with the view that apathy as a syndrome is related to but distinct 
from cognition.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2024.100012
PMID: 40086910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Dr Mintzer 
reported being an advisor for Praxis Bioresearch and Cerevel Therapeutics 
outside the submitted work. Dr Lanctôt reported grants from the National 
Institutes of Health during the conduct of the ADMET 2 study and personal fees 
for serving on the advisory boards of BioXcel Therapeutics, Cerevel 
Therapeutics, Praxis, Eisai, and Kondor Pharma outside the submitted work. Dr. 
Rosenberg has received research grants from the National Institutes of Aging, 
Alzheimer's Clinical Trials Consortium, Richman Family Precision Medicine Center 
of Excellence on Alzheimer’s Disease, Eisai, Functional Neuromodulation, and 
Lilly; honoraria from Lilly, GLG, Leerink, Cerevel, Cerevance, Bioxcel, 
Sunovion, Acadia, Medalink, Novo Nordisk, Noble Insights, TwoLabs, Otsuka, 
Lundbeck, Acadia, MedaCorp, ExpertConnect, HMP Global, Sinaptica, Synaptogenix, 
Worldwide Clinical Trials, and Neurology Week. Dr. van Dyck reported grants from 
the National Institute on Aging during the conduct of the ADMET 2 study and 
reports consulting fees from Roche, Eisai, Ono, and Cerevel and grants for 
clinical trials from Biogen, Roche, Genentech, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Janssen, UCB, 
and Cerevel. Dr. Porsteinsson reports personal fees from Acadia Pharmaceuticals, 
Athira, Biogen, BMS, Cognitive Research Corp, Eisai, IQVIA, Lundbeck, Novartis, 
ONO Pharmaceuticals, WCG, WebMD, and Xenon; grants to his institution from 
Alector, Athira, Biogen, Cassava, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Genentech/Roche, Vaccinex, 
NIA, NIMH, and DOD. He is a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of Alzheon, 
Athira, and Cognition Therapeutics. Dr. Levey reports equity in EmTheraPro, 
NextSense, Asha Therapeutics, and is a consultant for EmTheraPro, Cognito 
Therapeutics, Asha Therapeutics, Cognition Therapeutics, NextSense.


60. Int Psychogeriatr. 2025 Mar;37(2):100005. doi: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2024.100005. 
Epub 2024 Dec 4.

Failure to recover from proactive semantic interference predicts trajectory of 
decline in everyday function among older adults with amnestic mild cognitive 
impairment.

Zheng DD(1), Cid REC(2), Ortega A(1), Crocco EA(2), Vaillancourt D(3), Armstrong 
MJ(4), Asken B(5), DeKosky ST(6), Adjouadi M(7), Smith G(5), Duara R(8), 
Marsiske M(5), Rosselli M(9), W Barker W(8), Loewenstein DA(10).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cognitive Neuroscience and Aging, Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL 
33136, United States.
(2)Center for Cognitive Neuroscience and Aging, Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL 
33136, United States; 1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Gainesville, 
FL 32610, United States.
(3)1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Gainesville, FL 32610, United 
States; Department of Applied Physiology & Kinesiology, University of Florida 
College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL 32611, United States.
(4)1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Gainesville, FL 32610, United 
States; Department of Neurology, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville, FL 32608, United States.
(5)1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Gainesville, FL 32610, United 
States; Department of Clinical and Health Psychology, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL 32610, United States.
(6)1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Gainesville, FL 32610, United 
States; Department of Neurology and McKnight Brain Institute, University of 
Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL 32610, United States.
(7)1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Gainesville, FL 32610, United 
States; Center for Advanced Technology and Engineering (CATE), Florida 
International University, Miami, FL 33174, United States.
(8)1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Gainesville, FL 32610, United 
States; Wien Center for Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders, Mount Sinai 
Medical Center, Miami Beach, FL 33140, United States.
(9)1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Gainesville, FL 32610, United 
States; Florida Atlantic University Department of Psychology, Boca Raton, FL 
33431, United States.
(10)Center for Cognitive Neuroscience and Aging, Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL 
33136, United States; 1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Gainesville, 
FL 32610, United States. Electronic address: dloewenstein@med.miami.edu.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the predictive utility of proactive semantic 
interference (PSI) and failure to recover from proactive semantic interference 
(frPSI) deficits on the longitudinal everyday functional decline on the Clinical 
Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes (CDR-SOB) among older adults with amnestic mild 
cognitive impairment (aMCI).
DESIGN: Longitudinal prospective cohort study.
SETTING: 1Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (1FLADRC).
PARTICIPANTS: 97 older adults aged 54 to 98 years who were diagnosed with aMCI 
following a baseline evaluation. The average age was 71.9 years, 51 % male, 
average education 15.7 years, and 56 % Hispanic. The mean MMSE score was 28.0. 
Participants were followed annually for 3 to 4 visits with a mean follow-up time 
of 38.9 months (range 22.7 to 70.3 months).
MEASUREMENTS: CDR-SOB were obtained at each visit and the latent growth curve 
trajectory of CDR-SOB was estimated. The associations between PSI and frPSI and 
the growth curve trajectory of CDR-SOB were examined.
RESULTS: The growth curve model that best fits the CDR-SOB trajectory was a 
linear form and included the fixed and random effect of intercept and slope of 
time. After adjusting for age, sex, education, Hispanic background, Hopkins 
Verbal Learning Test (HVLT) immediate and delayed recall, and amyloid 
positivity, frPSI (β = -0.134, se=0.04, p < 0.01) remained statistically 
significant in predicting a steeper slope on the trajectory of decline in 
CDR-SOB.
CONCLUSIONS: frPSI at baseline predicted the rate of everyday functional decline 
over time among participants with aMCI regardless of amyloid status and 
demonstrated its utility of longitudinal prediction of change in CDR-SOB.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2024.100005
PMCID: PMC12101575
PMID: 40086908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None of the 
authors have conflicts of interest involving this manuscript, although Drs. 
Loewenstein and Curiel hold intellectual property rights to the LASSI-L at the 
University of Miami.61. Psychiatr Prax. 2025 May;52(4):188-195. doi: 10.1055/a-2515-9576. Epub 2025
Mar  14.

[DemStepCare: Risk-stratified support for outpatient dementia care - Evaluation 
from the perspective of relatives].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Klein F(1), Möllerherm J(1), Geschke K(2)(3), Fellgiebel A(2)(4), Wangler J(5), 
Schulz M(1)(6), Jansky M(5), Kronmüller KT(1), Löhr M(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Allgemeine Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, LWL-Klinikum Gütersloh.
(2)ZpGA, Landeskrankenhaus Zentrum für psychische Gesundheit im Alter, Mainz.
(3)Klinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Universitätsmedizin der Johannes 
Gutenberg-Universität Mainz.
(4)Klinik für Psychiatrie, Psychosomatik und Psychotherapie, Agaplesion 
Elisabethenstift gGmbH, Darmstadt.
(5)Zentrum für Allgemeinmedizin und Geriatrie, Universitätsmedizin der Johannes 
Gutenberg-Universität Mainz.
(6)Psychiatrische Pflege, Fachhochschule der Diakonie, Bielefeld.

Dementia care has several shortcomings: lack of guideline based early diagnoses 
and interventions concerning effective outpatient crisis intervention, regional 
multiprofessional networking and care givers support. To meet these challenges, 
the DemStepCare project is composed of a need-driven, staged treatment approach. 
GPs and case managers direct a regional dementia care network to provide 
counseling, case management, out-patient crisis intervention and care givers 
support. Qualitative survey results of the care giver perspective show positive 
aspects and further potential for improvement of the care services.

Publisher: Die Demenzversorgung leidet unter fehlenden oder insuffizienten 
Netzwerkstrukturen zur leitlinien- und bedarfsgerechten frühen Diagnostik, zur 
ambulanten Krisentintervention und Angehörigenbegleitung. Das Modellprojekt 
DemStepCare stellt einen bedarfsorientierten, gestuften, multiprofessionellen 
Behandlungsansatz dar. Hausärzt:innen und pflegerische Case Manager:innen 
steuern die regional vernetzte Versorgung und ermöglichen den bedarfsgerechten 
Einsatz von Beratung, pflegerischem Case Managemet, ambulanter, 
multiprofessioneller Krisenintervention und Angehörigenbegleitung. Die 
Ergebnisse der vorliegenden qualitativen Befragung der Angehörigen zeigen sowohl 
positive Effekte als auch weitere Optimierungspotentiale.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-2515-9576
PMID: 40086891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Die Autorinnen/Autoren geben an, dass kein 
Interessenkonflikt besteht.


62. Planta Med. 2025 Jul;91(8):386-408. doi: 10.1055/a-2536-8919. Epub 2025 Mar
14.

Natural Products Targeting Tau Protein Phosphorylation: A Promising Therapeutic 
Avenue for Alzheimer's Disease.

Chen Z(1), Lu Y(1), Wang Y(1), Wang Q(1), Yu L(1), Liu J(2).

Author information:
(1)Science and Technology Innovation Center, Guangzhou University of Chinese 
Medicine, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Affiliated Jiangmen TCM Hospital of Ji'nan University, Jiangmen, China.

Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
tau protein hyperphosphorylation and neurofibrillary tangle formation, which are 
central to its pathogenesis. This review focuses on the therapeutic potential of 
natural products in targeting tau phosphorylation, a key factor in Alzheimer's 
disease progression. It comprehensively summarizes current research on various 
natural compounds, including flavonoids, alkaloids, saponins, polysaccharides, 
phenols, phenylpropanoids, and terpenoids, highlighting their multitarget 
mechanisms, such as modulating kinases and phosphatases. The ability of these 
compounds to mitigate oxidative stress, inflammation, and tau pathology while 
enhancing cognitive function underscores their value as potential 
anti-Alzheimer's disease therapeutics. By integrating recent advances in 
extraction methods, pharmacological studies, and artificial intelligence-driven 
screening technologies, this review provides a valuable reference for future 
research and development of natural product-based interventions for Alzheimer's 
disease.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-2536-8919
PMID: 40086889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


63. Drug Discov Today. 2025 Apr;30(4):104330. doi: 10.1016/j.drudis.2025.104330. 
Epub 2025 Mar 12.

Dissolving microneedles for brain delivery: Recent advances and challenges.

Kolekar KA(1), Kumbhar PS(2), Vishwas S(1), Dua K(3), Singh SK(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
Punjab 144411, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, Tatyasaheb Kore College of Pharmacy, 
Warananagar, Panhala, Kolhapur, Maharashtra 416113, India.
(3)Discipline of Pharmacy, Graduate School of Health, University of Technology 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia; Faculty of Health, Australian Research 
Centre in Complementary & Integrative Medicine, University of Technology Sydney, 
Ultimo, NSW 2007, Australia.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
Punjab 144411, India; Sunway Biofunctional Molecules Discovery Centre (SBMDC), 
School of Medical and Life Sciences, Sunway University, Bandar Sunway, 47500, 
Malaysia. Electronic address: singhsachin23@gmail.com.

Over the past decade, dissolving microneedles (DMNs) have emerged as a promising 
approach for drug delivery to the brain. They are tiny devices designed to 
penetrate biological barriers, offering a painless method for localized and 
controlled drug delivery. They are suitable for delivering drugs that are 
susceptible to degradation when delivered orally. Recently, drug-loaded DMNs 
have been explored for treating neurodegenerative diseases, including 
Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). DMNs can deliver drugs 
efficiently to the brain via the intranasal, transdermal, and intracranial 
routes. In this review, we discuss the use of DMNs for delivering drugs to the 
brain, recent technological advances, clinical status, and current challenges 
related to their translation.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2025.104330
PMID: 40086788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Complement Ther Clin Pract. 2025 May;59:101968. doi:
10.1016/j.ctcp.2025.101968.  Epub 2025 Mar 10.

Comparing the impact of various exercise modalities on old adults with 
Alzheimer's disease: A Bayesian network meta-analysis.

Hu F(1), Peng J(2), Wang W(3), Shen L(4), Jia M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education, Dong-A University, Busan, South Korea. 
Electronic address: fengtinghu5@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Physical Education, Dong-A University, Busan, South Korea. 
Electronic address: pengjin7525@163.com.
(3)Department of Physical Education, Dong-A University, Busan, South Korea. 
Electronic address: wamgweiram0829@163.com.
(4)Faculty for Physical Education, Zhejiang Yuexiu University, Shaoxing, 
Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: 20241098@zyufl.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Physical Education, Dong-A University, Busan, South Korea. 
Electronic address: jmy201509@126.com.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The global prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the 
elderly is rising, and exercise is increasingly used as a non-pharmacological 
intervention. However, the most effective exercise modality for improving 
quality of life, alleviating depression, and reducing neuropsychiatric symptoms 
in AD patients remains unclear. This study aims to identify the optimal exercise 
modality for addressing these symptoms through a network meta-analysis.
METHODS: As of November 2024, we conducted a comprehensive search across six 
databases: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, the Cochrane Central Register of 
Controlled Trials, CINAHL, and PsycINFO. This study included only randomized 
controlled trials (RCTs), with study durations ranging from 2 to 24 weeks, 
primarily set in clinical or community environments. Following the PRISMA-NMA 
guidelines, we conducted statistical analysis using the "gemtc" package in R and 
assessed evidence quality via the CINeMA online platform.
RESULTS: A network meta-analysis of 29 RCTs with 1507 participants showed that 
for global cognition, Aerobic exercise (AE) [MD = 2.83, 95 % CI (0.66, 4.85)] 
ranked first with 79.5 % probability; for quality of daily life, Resistance 
Training (RT) [SMD = 0.96, 95 % CI (-0.14, 2.07)] ranked first with 83.7 %; for 
depression, Physical Activity Program (PAP) [SMD = -3.76, 95 % CI (-7.06, 
-0.47)] ranked first with 96.0 %; and for neuropsychiatric inventory outcomes, 
AE [SMD = -2.35, 95 % CI (-5.95, 1.06)] ranked first with 71.1 %.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings from retrospective studies, aerobic exercise 
may be an effective intervention for improving overall cognition and quality of 
life in individuals aged 60 and above with Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctcp.2025.101968
PMID: 40086298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


65. Biosens Bioelectron. 2025 Jun 15;278:117365. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2025.117365.
 Epub 2025 Mar 11.

Dual single nucleotide polymorphisms typing of apolipoprotein E gene based on 
double restriction endonuclease with lambda exonuclease and triple helix 
molecular switch assistance.

Lin G(1), Liang W(2), He Q(3), Wang Y(4), Yang X(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, ZhuJiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, 510280, PR China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State Key 
Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Guangdong Provincial Clinical Research 
Center for Cancer, Guangzhou, 510060, PR China.
(3)Guangzhou Quality Supervision and Testing Institute, Guangzhou, 511447, PR 
China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, ZhuJiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, 510280, PR China. Electronic address: yongwh2005@163.com.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, ZhuJiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, 510280, PR China. Electronic address: yxj2602@smu.edu.cn.

Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are critical determinants of disease 
susceptibility, pathogenesis, and drug response, underscoring the need for their 
accurate monitoring in clinical practice. In this study, we propose a novel 
apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotyping method for the rapid and precise 
identification of six genotypes (ε2/ε2, ε3/ε3, ε4/ε4, ε2/ε3, ε2/ε4, and ε3/ε4). 
The method utilizes restriction endonucleases AflIII and HaeII to selectively 
cleave the rs429358 and rs7412 sites, thereby generating distinct 
double-stranded DNA fragments. These fragments are subsequently processed by 
Lambda exonuclease to produce single-stranded DNA, which binds to a triple-helix 
molecular switch (THMS) and induces its conformational transition into a hairpin 
structure, resulting in a fluorescence change. The optimized assay exhibits a 
linear detection range of 5-1000 copies with a minimum detection limit of 2 
copies for the rs429358 site, and a range of 10-1000 copies with a minimum 
detection limit of 6 copies for the rs7412 site. Furthermore, the method was 
validated using clinical samples from 10 Alzheimer's disease patients, achieving 
complete concordance with sequencing results, which underlines the high 
specificity and sensitivity of the method and demonstrates its potential as a 
valuable tool for the early diagnosis and personalized treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2025.117365
PMID: 40086116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


66. Elife. 2025 Mar 14;13:RP96519. doi: 10.7554/eLife.96519.

A microglia clonal inflammatory disorder in Alzheimer's disease.

Vicario R(#)(1), Fragkogianni S(#)(1), Weber L(1), Lazarov T(1), Hu Y(2), 
Hayashi SY(3), Craddock B(3), Socci ND(4), Alberdi A(1), Baako A(1), Ay O(1), 
Ogishi M(5), Lopez-Rodrigo E(1), Kappagantula R(6), Viale A(4), 
Iacobuzio-Donahue CA(6)(7), Zhou T(8), Ransohoff RM(9), Chesworth R(9); 
Netherlands Brain Bank(10); Abdel-Wahab O(6), Boisson B(5), Elemento O(2), 
Casanova JL(5), Miller WT(3), Geissmann F(1).

Author information:
(1)Immunology Program, Sloan Kettering Institute, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, New York, United States.
(2)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Institute for Computational 
Biomedicine, Weill Cornell New York, New York, United States.
(3)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Stony Brook University School of 
Medicine, Stony Brook, New York, United States.
(4)Marie-Josée & Henry R. Kravis Center for Molecular Oncology, Memorial Sloan 
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York, United States.
(5)St. Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller 
Branch, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York, United States.
(6)Human Oncology & Pathogenesis Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York, United States.
(7)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York, United States.
(8)SKI Stem Cell Research Core, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, New York, United States.
(9)Third Rock Ventures, Boston, United States.
(10)Netherlands Brain Bank, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Aug 03:2024.01.25.577216. doi: 10.1101/2024.01.25.577216.

Somatic genetic heterogeneity resulting from post-zygotic DNA mutations is 
widespread in human tissues and can cause diseases, however, few studies have 
investigated its role in neurodegenerative processes such as Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Here, we report the selective enrichment of microglia clones carrying 
pathogenic variants, that are not present in neuronal, glia/stromal cells, or 
blood, from patients with AD in comparison to age-matched controls. Notably, 
microglia-specific AD-associated variants preferentially target the MAPK 
pathway, including recurrent CBL ring-domain mutations. These variants activate 
ERK and drive a microglia transcriptional program characterized by a strong 
neuro-inflammatory response, both in vitro and in patients. Although the natural 
history of AD-associated microglial clones is difficult to establish in humans, 
microglial expression of a MAPK pathway activating variant was previously shown 
to cause neurodegeneration in mice, suggesting that AD-associated 
neuroinflammatory microglial clones may contribute to the neurodegenerative 
process in patients.

Plain Language Summary: Around 10% of people aged over 65 are estimated to have 
Alzheimer’s disease. This progressive neurodegenerative condition leads to death 
of brain cells, memory loss, confusion and other life-altering symptoms. Somatic 
mutations are changes in the genetic information of a cell other than sperm or 
eggs, which can result in alterations in gene function. As the mutant cells 
multiply, they form clones that also carry these changes – potentially resulting 
in groups of cells that behave differently from those in which those mutations 
are absent. Despite their importance, the role of somatic mutations in 
Alzheimer’s disease remains poorly understood. To investigate this question, 
Vicario, Fragkogianni, Weber, Lazarov et al. examined the genetic material of 
brain and blood cells obtained from individuals who had died either of 
Alzheimer’s disease, or of other causes. The team focused their analysis on 
around 700 genes previously associated with neurodegenerative conditions. The 
results showed that, compared to individuals whose death was not due to 
neurological illnesses, harmful variants of those genes were present in higher 
numbers in the microglia cells of around 25% of Alzheimer’s patients in their 
series. No such increase was detected in other blood or brain cell populations, 
regardless of the individuals’ cause of death. Microglia are cells tasked with 
helping to repair damage and fight off infections in the brain. Many of the 
harmful gene variants found in this population switched on a cell pathway known 
as the MAP Kinase pathway, which activated the cells and caused them to 
multiply. This, in turn, led to inflammation and may contribute to the death of 
neurons. Together these findings indicate that developing a new class of 
therapeutics that inhibits the MAP Kinase pathway in microglia may help prevent 
irreversible brain damage in some patients with Alzheimer’s disease.

© 2024, Vicario, Fragkogianni et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.96519
PMCID: PMC11908784
PMID: 40085681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RV, SF, LW, TL, YH, SH, BC, NS, AA, AB, OA, MO, 
EL, RK, AV, CI, TZ, RR, RC, OA, BB, OE, JC, WM, FG No competing interests 
declared


67. Scand J Caring Sci. 2025 Mar;39(1):e13314. doi: 10.1111/scs.13314.

Occupational therapy for people with dementia transitioning to residential care: 
A scoping review.

Richards K(1), Carlton C(2), Reed K(2), Cashin M(2), Hitch D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Clinical Health, School of Allied Health, Human 
Service and Sport, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Victoria, Australia.
(2)School of Health and Social Development, Deakin University, Geelong, 
Victoria, Australia.

AIM: This scoping review aims to describe the literature about the experiences 
of family caregivers and persons living with dementia transitioning into 
residential care facilities; and to identify missed opportunities for 
occupational therapy to support this transition.
METHODS: The methodological framework proposed by Arksey and O'Malley guided the 
review. Six electronic databases were systematically searched for peer-reviewed 
studies published between Jan 2017 and June 2024 including people with dementia 
aged 65+ years prior to, during and post-admission to a residential care 
facility and/or family caregiver.
RESULTS: Twenty-three studies met the inclusion criteria, reporting research 
from Australia, Europe and North America. Family caregivers and people with 
dementia face multiple challenges prior to, during, and after admission to a 
residential care facility. Four overarching themes were identified; (1) Factors 
during the transition process with two subthemes: caregiver perceptions and 
heightened emotions; (2) Trying to get help; (3) Effectiveness of transition 
interventions; and (4) Unmet needs. Families feel overwhelmed, uncertainty about 
accessing residential care, guilt about relinquishing care and role loss 
post-admission. Persons living with dementia report experiencing a loss of 
autonomy and connection with their family, staff and co-residents. The 
understanding of dynamics and relationships during transitions can impact health 
and well-being, highlighting the importance of tailored support from various 
healthcare professionals, including occupational therapists.
CONCLUSION: Findings suggest that the transition into a residential care 
facility is complex and filled with emotional, psychological, familial and 
functional changes. Navigating these changes represents a unique opportunity for 
occupational therapists to utilise their distinctive skill set to navigate this 
transition and support the health and well-being of caregivers and persons 
living with dementia.

© 2025 Nordic College of Caring Science.

DOI: 10.1111/scs.13314
PMID: 40084681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(3):841-851. doi: 10.1177/13872877251320375.
Epub  2025 Mar 14.

Frequency of variants in Mendelian Alzheimer's disease genes within the 
Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing Project.

Wang D(1), Scalici A(1), Wang Y(1), Lin H(2), Pitsillides A(1), Heard-Costa 
N(3)(4), Cruchaga C(5)(6)(7)(8), Ziegemeier E(8), Bis JC(9), Fornage M(10), 
Boerwinkle E(11)(12), De Jager PL(13)(14), Wijsman E(15)(16), Dupuis J(1), 
Renton AE(17)(18), Seshadri S(4)(19)(20), Goate AM(17)(18); Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), The Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing Project; 
DeStefano AL(1)(4), Peloso GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(4)NHLBI Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO, USA.
(6)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.
(7)NeuroGenomics and Informatics, Washington University School of Medicine, St 
Louis, MO, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO, USA.
(9)Cardiovascular Health Research Unit, Department of Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(10)Brown Foundation Institute of Molecular Medicine, McGovern Medical School 
and Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(11)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, 
USA.
(12)Department of Epidemiology, Human Genetics, and Environmental Sciences, 
School of Public Health, The University of Texas Health Science Center at 
Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(13)Center for Translational & Computational Neuroimmunology, Department of 
Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(14)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(15)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(16)Division of Medical Genetics, Department of Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(17)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(18)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(20)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's Disease and Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, University of Texas Health San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Sep 23:2023.10.24.23297227. doi: 10.1101/2023.10.24.23297227.

BackgroundPrior studies examined variants within presenilin-2 (PSEN2), 
presenilin-1 (PSEN1), and amyloid precursor protein (APP) genes. However, 
previously-reported clinically-relevant variants and other predicted damaging 
missense (DM) variants have not been characterized in a newer release of the 
Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing Project (ADSP).ObjectiveTo characterize 
previously-reported clinically-relevant variants and DM variants in PSEN2, 
PSEN1, APP within the participants from the ADSP.MethodsWe identified rare 
variants (MAF < 1%) in PSEN2, PSEN1, and APP in 14,641 individuals with whole 
genome sequencing and 16,849 individuals with whole exome sequencing available 
(Ntotal = 31,490). We additionally curated variants from ClinVar, OMIM, and 
Alzforum and report carriers of variants in clinical databases as well as 
predicted DM variants in these genes.ResultsWe detected 31 previously-reported 
clinically-relevant variants with alternate alleles observed within the ADSP: 4 
variants in PSEN2, 25 in PSEN1, and 2 in APP. The overall variant carrier rate 
for the 31 clinically-relevant variants in the ADSP was 0.3%. We observed that 
79.5% of the variant carriers were cases compared to 3.9% were controls. In 
those with AD, the mean age of onset of AD among carriers of these 
clinically-relevant variants was 19.6 ± 1.4 years earlier compared with 
noncarriers (p = 7.8 × 10-57). Additionally, we identified 197 rare variants 
(MAF < 1%) within ADSP participants not reported in known clinical 
databases.ConclusionsA small proportion of individuals in the ADSP are carriers 
of a previously-reported clinically-relevant variant allele for AD and these 
participants have significantly earlier age of AD onset compared to noncarriers.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251320375
PMID: 40084664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Alison M. Goate has 
consulted for Eisai, Biogen, AbbVie, and GSK; she also serves on the Scientific 
Advisory Boards of Genentech and Muna Therapeutics. The remaining authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


69. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(3):933-942. doi: 10.1177/13872877251320670.
Epub  2025 Mar 14.

Associations between neuropsychiatric symptoms and pathology in 
clinicopathologically defined Alzheimer's disease, Alzheimer's disease with Lewy 
bodies, and dementia with Lewy bodies.

Tremblay C(1), Shakir N(2), Zhang N(3), Adler CH(4), Shill HA(5), Mehta S(4), 
Driver-Dunckley E(4), Belden CM(6), Atri A(6)(7)(8), Beach TG(1), Serrano GE(1), 
Choudhury P(6).

Author information:
(1)Civin Laboratory for Neuropathology, Banner Sun Health Research Institute, 
Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(2)Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, USA.
(3)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Scottsdale, AZ, 
USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(6)Cleo Roberts Center, Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, AZ, USA.
(7)Center for Brain/Mind Medicine & Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

BackgroundNeuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) are frequent in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) dementia, but a higher NPS burden is found in dementia with Lewy bodies 
(DLB). Lewy body (LB) pathology frequently co-occurs with AD pathology and may 
not meet neuropathological criteria for DLB (ADLB). NPS trajectories over 
disease course in these subgroups is not well understood.ObjectiveWe 
investigated changes in NPS severity over time, at two time points, comparing 
clinicopathologically defined cohorts of AD (without LB), ADLB, DLB, and 
controls.MethodsCases with two available Neuropsychiatric 
Inventory-Questionnaire (NPIQ), at the time of enrollment and within 2.5 years 
of death, were selected from the Arizona Study of Aging and Neurodegenerative 
Disorders. Differences and rate of change in NPIQ scores were compared between 
AD (n = 75), ADLB (n = 48) DLB (n = 65), and controls (n = 32) with covariates 
for age, sex, and cognition.ResultsFirst NPIQ scores were highest in ADLB when 
compared to AD (p = 0.04) and controls (p = 0.01) but not different from DLB. A 
significant increase in NPS severity was observed in DLB and AD (p < 0.001) over 
a mean follow up time of 4.9 ± 3.0 years, and the rate of change was 
significantly greater in DLB when compared to other groups. Final NPIQ scores 
were highest in DLB when compared to AD (p = 0.03) but not ADLB, and in DLB, 
ADLB, and AD than controls (all p < 0.001).ConclusionsEarly NPS burden as well 
as NPS severity progression rate, independently of cognitive status, might be 
useful clinical metrics and may help predict underlying pathological diagnoses.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251320670
PMCID: PMC12133103
PMID: 40084663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests The authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: CT has been supported 
by fellowships from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) and 
Quebec’s Health Research Funds (FRQS). CHA received consulting fees from CND 
Life Sciences. HAS has received research support from Intra-cellular 
Therapeutics, Transposon, Parkinson Study Group/UCB, Parkinson’s Foundation, 
NINDS, Supernus/US World Meds, MJFF, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Barrow Neurological 
Foundation, Saccadous Inc, and Cerevel Therapeutics. Dr Shill has additionally 
served as a consultant for the Parkinson Study Group/Nq, Biogen, AbbVie, 
Sage/Biogen, Praxis, KeifeRx, Fasikl and Jazz Pharmaceuticals. SM receive 
funding from PPMI. TGB has received consulting fees from Aprinoia Therapeutics, 
Biogen and Acadia Pharmaceuticals. He has received payment or honoraria from the 
National Institutes of Health, International Movement Disorders Association, 
World PD Coalition, Mayo Clinic Florida, Stanford University, and the IOS 
Press-Journal of Parkinson’s Disease and support for attending meetings from the 
Alzheimer’s Association, AD/PD/Kenes Group, Mayo Clinic Florida, and the 
Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf. He also has a leadership/fiduciary role 
and stock options with Vivid Genomics. AA has received honoraria or support for 
consulting; participating in independent data safety monitoring boards; 
providing educational lectures, programs, and materials; or serving on advisory 
boards for Acadia, Alzheimer’s Association, Alzheimer’s Disease International 
(ADI), AriBio, Biogen, Eisai, Life Molecular Imaging, Lundbeck, Merck, Novo 
Nordisk, ONO, Prothena, and Roche/Genentech. Dr Atri receives book royalties 
from Oxford University Press for a medical book on dementia. Dr Atri receives 
institutional research grant/contract funding from NIA/NIH 1P30AG072980, NIA/NIH 
U24AG057437, AZ DHS CTR040636, the Foundation for NIH, Washington University St 
Louis, and Gates Ventures. Dr Atri’s institution (Banner Health) 
receives/received funding for clinical trial grants, contracts and projects from 
government, consortia, foundations and companies for which he serves/served as 
contracted site-PI. PC has received research support from Lewy Body Dementia 
Association and Arizona Alzheimer’s Consortium. The remaining authors declared 
no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, 
and/or publication of this article.


70. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2025 Apr;136(4):e70025. doi:
10.1111/bcpt.70025.

Advances in PET Imaging of α7 Nicotinic Receptors: From Radioligand Development 
to CNS Applications.

Magnussen JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurobiology Research Unit, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Positron emission tomography (PET) has significantly advanced our understanding 
of the brain by enabling non-invasive imaging and quantification of molecular 
processes, including receptor binding. In this review, we explore the 
development and application of PET radioligands targeting the α7 nicotinic 
acetylcholine receptor (α7 nAChR), a receptor implicated in various central 
nervous system (CNS) diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and 
cognitive disorders. Despite challenges associated with the low density of α7 
nAChRs and difficulties in achieving adequate brain penetration, several 
promising radioligands have been developed, including 11C-(R)-MeQAA, 11C-NS14492 
and 18F-ASEM. These radioligands facilitate the evaluation of the 'three pillars 
of survival' in drug development: tissue accessibility, target engagement and 
downstream pharmacology. PET imaging offers critical insights into drug 
distribution across the blood-brain barrier, receptor occupancy and the 
pharmacodynamic effects of α7 nAChR-targeted therapies. By reviewing current 
radioligands and their applications, we highlight the potential of PET imaging 
to deepen our understanding of α7 nAChR-mediated signalling pathways and its 
implications for CNS drug discovery. Future innovations in radioligand 
development, including more selective and brain-penetrant compounds, will be key 
to fully realizing the potential of PET imaging in α7 nAChR-targeted research 
and treatment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Nordic Association for the Publication of 
BCPT (former Nordic Pharmacological Society).

DOI: 10.1111/bcpt.70025
PMCID: PMC11907392
PMID: 40084546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflicts of interest.


71. J Hypertens. 2025 Jun 1;43(6):929-938. doi: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000003994.
Epub  2025 Mar 10.

Blood pressure variability: a review.

Kulkarni S(1)(2), Parati G(3)(4), Bangalore S(5), Bilo G(3)(4), Kim BJ(6), Kario 
K(7), Messerli F(8), Stergiou G(9), Wang J(10), Whiteley W(11), Wilkinson 
I(1)(2), Sever PS(12).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust.
(2)Department of Experimental Medicine and Immunotherapeutics, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(3)Department of Cardiology, IRCCS San Luca Hospiatal, Istituto Auxologico 
Italiano.
(4)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Milano-Bicocca, Milan, 
Italy.
(5)Bellevue Hospital Center and NYU School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Centre, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(7)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Jichi Medical University School of 
Medicine, Tochigi, Japan.
(8)University of Bern, Switzerland and Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland.
(9)Hypertension Center STRIDE-7, University of Athens, Greece.
(10)The Shanghai Institute of Hypertension, Shanghai, China.
(11)Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(12)National Heart & Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.

Blood pressure variability (BPV) predicts cardiovascular events independent of 
mean blood pressure. BPV is defined as short-term (24-h), medium or long- term 
(weeks, months or years). Standard deviation, coefficient of variation and 
variation independent of the mean have been used to quantify BPV. High BPV is 
associated with increasing age, diabetes, smoking and vascular disease and is a 
consequence of premature ageing of the vasculature. Long-term BPV has been 
incorporated into cardiovascular risk models (QRISK) and elevated BPV confers an 
increased risk of cardiovascular outcomes even in subjects with controlled blood 
pressure. Long-acting dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers and thiazide 
diuretics are the only drugs that reduce BPV and for the former explains their 
beneficial effects on cardiovascular outcomes. We believe that BPV should be 
incorporated into blood pressure management guidelines and based on current 
evidence, long-acting dihydropyridines should be preferred drugs in subjects 
with elevated BPV.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000003994
PMCID: PMC12052075
PMID: 40084481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: S.K. received consultancy from Viatris & Mphar 
and funding from AstraZeneca; G.P. received honoraria from Viatris, Omron and 
Merck; S.B. received consultancy fees and honoraria from Abbott Vascular, 
Biotronik, Boston Scientific, Pfizer, Viatris, Shockwave, Inari, Imperative Care 
and Recor; G.B. received lecture fees from Viatris, Daiichi Sankyo, Neopharmed 
Gentil, Servier, Alfasigma, & Sanofi; K.K. received grants from Omron Healthcare 
Ltd, Fukuda Denshi Ltd & A&D Company Ltd; F.M. received consultany fees from 
Medtronic & Recor; GS received consultancy and lecture fees from AstraZeneca, 
Menarini, Sanofi-Aventis, Servier, and Viatris; J.-G.W. received honoraria from 
Novartis, Omron & Pfizer; W.W. received funding from Chief Scientists's Office, 
HDRUK & Alzheimer's Society and honoraria from Viatris; IW received grants from 
Viatris & Astra Zeneca, consultancy fees from Vaitris, Roche & Astra Zeneca and 
honoraria from Viatris; PS received funding, consultany fees, and honoraria from 
Viatris.


72. Explor Neurosci. 2025;4:100674. doi: 10.37349/en.2025.100674. Epub 2025 Feb
25.

Neurostimulation devices to treat Alzheimer's disease.

Perez FP(1), Walker B(1), Morisaki J(2), Kanakri H(3), Rizkalla M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, 
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 
60607, USA.
(3)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Purdue University, 
Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.

The use of neurostimulation devices for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) is a growing field. In this review, we examine the mechanism of action and 
therapeutic indications of these neurostimulation devices in the AD process. 
Rapid advancements in neurostimulation technologies are providing 
non-pharmacological relief to patients affected by AD pathology. 
Neurostimulation therapies include electrical stimulation that targets the 
circuitry-level connection in important brain areas such as the hippocampus to 
induce therapeutic neuromodulation of dysfunctional neural circuitry and 
electromagnetic field (EMF) stimulation that targets anti-amyloid molecular 
pathways to promote the degradation of beta-amyloid (Aβ). These devices target 
specific or diffuse cortical and subcortical brain areas to modulate neuronal 
activity at the electrophysiological or molecular pathway level, providing 
therapeutic effects for AD. This review attempts to determine the most effective 
and safe neurostimulation device for AD and provides an overview of potential 
and current clinical indications. Several EMF devices have shown a beneficial or 
harmful effect in cell cultures and animal models but not in AD human studies. 
These contradictory results may be related to the stimulation parameters of 
these devices, such as frequency, penetration depth, power deposition measured 
by specific absorption rate, time of exposure, type of cell, and tissue 
dielectric properties. Based on this, determining the optimal stimulation 
parameters for EMF devices in AD and understanding their mechanism of action is 
essential to promote their clinical application, our review suggests that 
repeated EMF stimulation (REMFS) is the most appropriate device for human AD 
treatments. Before its clinical application, it is necessary to consider the 
complicated and interconnected genetic and epigenetic effects of 
REMFS-biological system interaction. This will move forward the urgently needed 
therapy of EMF in human AD.

DOI: 10.37349/en.2025.100674
PMCID: PMC11904933
PMID: 40084342

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest Figure 2 was modified the 
image from a patent application “Electromagnetic Frequency Generation System and 
Method”. The patent number is pending. The patent is of no financial interest to 
the subject matter and material of the manuscript.


73. Arch Plast Surg. 2025 Jan 30;52(2):96-103. doi: 10.1055/a-2513-4313.
eCollection  2025 Mar.

A Proposed Role for Lymphatic Supermicrosurgery in the Management of Alzheimer's 
Disease: A Primer for Reconstructive Microsurgeons.

Hong JP(1), Chen WF(2), Nguyen DH(3), Xie Q(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan, 
Seoul, Korea.
(2)Cleveland Clinic, Center for Lymphedema Research and Reconstruction, 
Cleveland, Ohio.
(3)Stanford Women's Cancer Center, Palo Alto, California.
(4)Qiushi Hospital Hangzhou, Hangzhou, People's Republic of China.

The relatively recent discovery of a novel lymphatic system within the brain 
meninges has spurred interest in how waste products generated by neurons and 
glial cells-including proteins associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathology such as amyloid beta (Aβ) and tau-are disposed of. Evidence is 
building that suggests disease progression in AD and other cognitive impairments 
could be explained by dysfunction in the brain's lymphatic system or obstruction 
of drainage. An interesting implication of this hypothesis is that, by relieving 
the obstruction of flow, lymphatic reconstruction along the drainage pathway 
could serve as a potential novel treatment. Should this concept prove true, it 
could represent a surgical solution to a problem for which only medical 
solutions have thus far been considered. This study is meant to serve as a 
primer for reconstructive microsurgeons, introducing the topic and current 
hypotheses about the potential role of lymphatic drainage in AD. A preview of 
current research evaluating the feasibility of lymphatic reconstruction as a 
surgical approach to improving Aβ clearance is provided, with the aim of 
inspiring others to design robust preclinical and clinical investigations into 
this intriguing hypothesis.

The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the 
terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, permitting unrestricted use, 
distribution, and reproduction so long as the original work is properly cited. ( 
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).

DOI: 10.1055/a-2513-4313
PMCID: PMC11896717
PMID: 40083619

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest J.P.H., W.F.C., and D.H.N. 
disclose that they have consulting relationships with MMI, Inc. Q.X. has no 
conflicts to disclose. J.P.H. is an editorial board member of the journal but 
was not involved in the peer reviewer selection, evaluation, or decision process 
of this article. No other potential conflicts of interest relevant to this 
article were reported.


74. Cell Rep Phys Sci. 2024 Dec 18;5(12):102336. doi: 10.1016/j.xcrp.2024.102336.

De novo design of a mechano-pharmaceutical screening platform against formation 
of individual beta-amyloid oligomers.

Pandey S(1)(2), Danielsen MB(3)(2), Xiang Y(4)(5), Zhang Z(1), Sharma G(6), Jeon 
BT(7), Song S(3), Hao Y(3), Zhang G(4), Christensen NJ(8), Sørensen KK(8), 
Harris P(8), Pokhrel P(1), Cunningham R(9), Kim MH(7), Leng Y(4), Lou C(3), Mao 
H(1)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Kent State University, Kent, OH 
44242, USA.
(2)These authors contributed equally.
(3)Department of Physics, Chemistry, and Pharmacy, University of Southern 
Denmark, Campusvej 55, 5230 Odense M, Denmark.
(4)Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, The George Washington 
University, Washington, DC 20052, USA.
(5)Department of Mathematical & Physical Sciences, Chengdu University of 
Technology, Chengdu 610059, China.
(6)School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent State University, Kent, OH 44242, USA.
(7)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, Kent, OH 44242, 
USA.
(8)Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 5, 2100 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(9)ATDBio, Magdalen Centre, Oxford Science Park, 1 Robert Robinson Avenue, 
Oxford OX4 4GA, UK.
(10)Lead contact.

Small molecules that can reduce the neurotoxic beta-amyloid (Aβ) aggregates in 
the brain provide a potential treatment for Alzheimer disease (AD). Most 
screening methods for small-molecule hits focus on the overall Aβ aggregations 
without a specific target, such as the very first association step (i.e., 
nucleation) en route to the Aβ oligomers. Located in the middle of a full-length 
Aβ peptide, Aβ19-20 (diphenylalanine or FF) nucleates the neurotoxic Aβ oligomer 
formation. Here, we innovate a single-molecule screen method in optical tweezers 
by targeting the nucleation process in Aβ aggregation, namely FF-dimerization. 
With a 121-compound National Institutes of Health (NIH) library, we identify 12 
inhibitors and 8 stimulants that can inhibit/promote Aβ19-20 dimerization 
significantly. The representative hits are subjected to the thioflavin T and 
cell toxicity assays to confirm their inhibiting or stimulating activities. By 
replacing FF with longer Aβ sequences, our single-molecule platform may identify 
more specific and potent small molecules to fight AD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrp.2024.102336
PMCID: PMC11905928
PMID: 40083584

Conflict of interest statement: DECLARATION OF INTERESTS The authors declare 
competing interests of the single-molecule screening technology and the tested 
small-molecule hit compounds, including inhibitors and promoters.


75. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Feb 27;16:1529327. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1529327. 
eCollection 2025.

The effect of tanshinones on cognitive impairments in animal models of 
Alzheimer's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Wang S(1)(2), Yang J(1), Zheng W(2), Zhang S(3), Zhong D(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Hospital of Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, 
China.
(2)Sichuan Province Famous Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, China.
(3)Enloe Magnet High School, Raleigh, NC, United States.
(4)Third Veterans Hospital of Sichuan Province, Chengdu, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurological illness that 
poses a significant hazard to human health. A fat-soluble compound called 
tanshinones was isolated from Danshen, a traditional Chinese herb. Recent years 
have seen reports of clinical trials examining the effects of tanshinones on 
cognitive impairment among individuals with AD, as well as the publication of 
pertinent basic research. Tanshinones are not yet commonly utilized in the 
therapeutic treatment of AD, and the effectiveness of tanshinones as a treatment 
program for AD is not yet adequately supported by evidence. To assess the impact 
of tanshinones on cognitive impairment in experimental rodent models of AD, we 
carried out a systematic review in this work.
METHOD: All relevant studies on the usage of tanshinones in AD model animals 
published in PubMed, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, EMBASE, Chinese 
Biomedicine Database, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure before 8 
September 2024, were systematically retrieved. To assess the methodological 
quality, the CAMARADES checklist was used. Meta-analysis was calculated and 
graphed in the Stata 14.0 software. For each outcome in every study, the 
standard mean difference (SMD) and the 95% confidence interval (CI) of each 
effect size were calculated.
RESULTS: Fourteen studies were included in this study. Compared with the AD 
model group without tanshinones intervention, tanshinones significantly reduced 
the number of escape latency [SMD = -2.082, 95% CI = (-2.481, -1.683), p < 
0.001]. Tanshinones also increased the times of platform crossing [SMD = 1.464, 
95% CI = (1.183, 1.744), p < 0.001] and time in target quadrants [SMD = 2.703, 
95% CI = (2.132, 3.275), p < 0.001].
CONCLUSION: Tanshinones are thought to have positive effects on cognitive 
impairment in rodent models of AD, according to the findings of this study. 
However, the level of quality of the included research may have an impact on the 
accuracy of positive outcomes. Thus, more high-quality randomized controlled 
animal studies are required to guide future scientific and clinical research.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: identifier CRD42024557980.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Yang, Zheng, Zhang and Zhong.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1529327
PMCID: PMC11904413
PMID: 40083386

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


76. Health Soc Work. 2025 May 1;50(2):121-130. doi: 10.1093/hsw/hlaf007.

Associations between Functional Disability and Chronic Conditions with 
Depressive Symptoms in Vietnamese-Origin Older Refugees.

Miyawaki CE(1), Garcia JM(2), Medina LD(3), Nguyen KN(4), Meyer OL(5), Markides 
KS(6).

Author information:
(1)Christina E. Miyawaki, PhD, MSW, MA, is associate professor, Graduate College 
of Social Work, University of Houston, 3511 Cullen Boulevard, Room 117, Houston, 
TX 77204-4013, USA.
(2)Joshua M. Garcia, MS, is a doctoral student, Department of Psychology, 
University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Luis D. Medina, PhD, is associate professor, Department of Psychology, 
University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Kim N. Nguyen, BS, is a research assistant, College of Education, University 
of Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(5)Oanh L. Meyer, PhD, is associate professor, Department of Neurology, 
University of California at Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.
(6)Kyriakos S. Markides, PhD, is Annie and John Gnitzinger Distinguished 
Professor of Aging and professor, Department of Preventive Medicine and 
Population Health, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.

Previous studies have found a strong association between activities of daily 
living (ADL)/instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) disability, chronic 
conditions, and depressive symptoms, and these associations with specific 
disability and diseases varied by racial/ethnic groups. However, information is 
unavailable on these associations, especially with the older generation of 
refugee populations. Authors examined the association and explored which 
disability and chronic diseases might be associated with depressive symptoms 
among 208 Vietnamese-origin older adults (≥65 years) from the Vietnamese Aging 
and Care Survey (VACS) in the United States. Study participants were 56.2 
percent female on average 75.4 years old with low average education and 
socioeconomic status. Most (80 percent) rated their health as fair/poor. 
Regression analyses showed significant associations between functional 
disability (i.e., ADL and IADL) and chronic diseases (i.e., arthritis and liver 
disease) and higher depressive symptoms. Complications from chronic conditions 
and pain might limit daily activities and impact older Vietnamese 
psychologically. Social workers can connect older Vietnamese and their families 
with culturally and linguistically relevant adult daycare centers to provide 
them with social and exercise opportunities. Policymakers can also help these 
Vietnamese families to have easier access to the facilities by allocating more 
financial resources for their social service needs.

© 2025 National Association of Social Workers.

DOI: 10.1093/hsw/hlaf007
PMCID: PMC12040069
PMID: 40083119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Neuroeng Rehabil. 2025 Mar 13;22(1):58. doi: 10.1186/s12984-025-01594-z.

Exploration of working memory retrieval stage for mild cognitive impairment: 
time-varying causality analysis of electroencephalogram based on dynamic brain 
networks.

Jiang Y(1)(2)(3), Guo Z(1)(2)(3), Zhou X(4)(5), Jiang N(6)(7), He J(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)The National Clinical Research Center for Geriatrics, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610041, China.
(2)The Med-X Center for Manufacturing, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 
610041, China.
(3)West China Biomedical Big Data Center, West China Hospital, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610041, China.
(4)Center for Computational Systems Medicine, McWilliams School of Biomedical 
Informatics, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, 
TX, 77030, USA.
(5)McGovern Medical School, The University of Texas Health Science Center at 
Houston, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(6)The National Clinical Research Center for Geriatrics, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610041, China. wearablemedical@wchscu.cn.
(7)The Med-X Center for Manufacturing, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 
610041, China. wearablemedical@wchscu.cn.
(8)The National Clinical Research Center for Geriatrics, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610041, China. jiayuan.he@wchscu.cn.
(9)The Med-X Center for Manufacturing, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 
610041, China. jiayuan.he@wchscu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is an intermediate stage between the 
expected cognitive decline of normal aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Its 
management is crucial for it helps intervene and slow the progression of 
cognitive decline to AD. However, the understanding of the MCI mechanism is not 
completely clear. As working memory (WM) damage is a common symptom of MCI, this 
study focused on the core stage of WM, i.e., the memory retrieval stage, to 
investigate information processing and the causality relationships among brain 
regions based on electroencephalogram (EEG) signals.
METHOD: 21 MCI and 20 normal cognitive control (NC) participants were recruited. 
The delayed matching sample paradigm with two different loads was employed to 
evaluate their WM functions. A time-varying network based on the Adaptive 
transfer function (ADTF) was constructed on the EEG of the memory retrieval 
trials.to perform the dynamic brain network analysis.
RESULTS: Our results showed that: (a) Behavioral data analysis: there were 
significant differences in accuracy and accuracy / reaction time between MCI and 
NC in tasks with memory load capacity of low load-four and high load-six, 
especially in tasks with memory load capacity of four. (b) Dynamic brain network 
analysis: there were significant differences in the dynamic changes of brain 
network patterns between the two groups during the memory retrieval stage of the 
WM task. Specifically, in low load WM tasks, the dynamic brain network changes 
of NC were more regular to accommodate for efficient information processing, 
with important core nodes showing a transition from bottom to up, while MCI did 
not display a regular dynamic brain network pattern. Further, the brain 
functional areas associated with low load WM disorders were mainly located in 
the left prefrontal lobe (FC1) and right occipital lobe (PO8). Compared with low 
load WM task, during the high load WM task, the dynamic brain network changes of 
NC during the memory retrieval stage were regular, and the core nodes exhibited 
a consistent transition phenomenon from up to bottom to up, which were not 
observed in MCI.
CONCLUSIONS: Behavioral data in the low load WM task paradigm and abnormal 
electrophysiological signals in the left prefrontal (FC1) and right occipital 
lobes (PO8) could be used for MCI diagnosis. This is the first time based on 
large-scale dynamic network methods to investigate the dynamic network patterns 
of MCI memory retrieval stages under different load WM tasks, providing a new 
perspective on the neural mechanisms of WM deficits in MCI patients and 
providing some reference for the clinical intervention treatment of MCI-WM 
memory disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12984-025-01594-z
PMCID: PMC11905461
PMID: 40083013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of West China 
Medical College of Sichuan University (Approved Number: 2021(1447)). All 
participants provided written informed consent prior to their participation. 
Consent for publication: All authors have approved the publication. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


78. Syst Rev. 2025 Mar 13;14(1):61. doi: 10.1186/s13643-025-02792-5.

Summarizing attributable factors and evaluating risk of bias of Mendelian 
randomization studies for Alzheimer's dementia and cognitive status: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Meng X(#)(1)(2), Li X(#)(2)(3), Cao M(#)(2), Dong J(4), Wang H(2), Cao W(5), Liu 
D(6), Wang Y(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Beijing Institute of Respiratory 
Medicine and Beijing Chao-Yang Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 
100020, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 100069, China.
(3)The Medical Department, Xijing Hospital, the Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an, 710032, Shaanxi, China.
(4)Health Management Center, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100050, China.
(5)Centre for Precision Medicine, Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, 7027, 
Australia.
(6)Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
University Town, 1068 Xueyuan Avenue, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, 518055, China. 
di.liu@siat.ac.cn.
(7)Centre for Precision Medicine, Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, 7027, 
Australia. wangy@ccmu.edu.cn.
(8)School of Public Health, North China University of Science and Technology, 21 
Bohaidadao, Caofeidian District, Tangshan, 063210, China. wangy@ccmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: No effective treatment is available to delay or reverse the onset 
and progression of Alzheimer's dementia (AD). Mild cognitive impairment, a 
clinical state between normal aging and AD, may offer the proper window for AD 
intervention and treatment. This systematic review aimed to summarize evidence 
from Mendelian randomization (MR) studies exploring factors attributable to AD 
and related cognitive status and to assess its credibility.
METHODS: We searched PubMed, Embase, MEDLINE, and the Cochrane Library to 
identify MR studies investigating the associations between any factor and AD and 
related cognitive status. The risk of bias in MR studies was evaluated using 
nine signaling questions tailored to identify potential biases based on the 
STROBE-MR guidelines.
RESULTS: A total of 125 eligible publications were examined, including 106 
AD-related MR studies reporting 674 records and 28 cognition-related MR studies 
reporting 141 records. We identified 185 unique causal risk factors for AD and 
49 for cognitive status. More than half of the MR studies reporting AD or 
cognitive status outcomes exhibited poor methodological quality, with a high 
risk of bias observed in 59% of the AD-related studies and 64% of the 
cognitive-related studies.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review summarized modifiable factors and omics 
signatures, providing a database of MR studies on AD and related cognitive 
status. The evaluation of bias risk in MR studies serves to raise awareness and 
improve overall quality. A critical appraisal checklist for assessing the risk 
of bias may pave the way for the development of a standardized tool.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: The review protocol was registered with the 
Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO) under the registration 
number CRD42023213990.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13643-025-02792-5
PMCID: PMC11905674
PMID: 40082927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The manuscript does not contain clinical studies or patient data. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


79. Protein J. 2025 Apr;44(2):147-161. doi: 10.1007/s10930-025-10264-x. Epub 2025
 Mar 13.

Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress: Implications in Diseases.

Walter NS(#)(1), Gorki V(#)(2), Bhardwaj R(3), Punnakkal P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, 160012, India. walterneha@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education 
and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, 160012, India.
(3)Department of Biophysics, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, 160012, India.
(4)Department of Biophysics, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, 160012, India. p.pradeep@pgimer.edu.in.
(#)Contributed equally

Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a specialized organelle that plays a significant 
role in cellular function. The major functions of ER include protein synthesis 
and transport, folding of proteins, biosynthesis of lipids, calcium (Ca2+) 
storage, and redox balance. The loss of ER integrity results in the induction of 
ER stress within the cell due to the accumulation of unfolded, improperly folded 
proteins or changes in Ca2+ metabolism and redox balance of organelle. This ER 
stress commences the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) that serves to counteract 
the ER stress via three sensors inositol requiring protein-1 (IRE1), protein 
kinase RNA-like ER kinase (PERK), and activating transcription factor-6 (ATF6) 
that serve to establish ER homeostasis and alleviates ER stress. Severe ER 
dysfunction ultimately results in the induction of apoptosis. Increasing shreds 
of evidence suggest the implication of ER stress in the development and 
progression of several diseases viz. tuberculosis, malaria, Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, diabetes, and cancer. Activation of ER stress can be 
beneficial for treating some diseases while inhibiting the process can be useful 
in others. A deeper understanding of these pathways can provide key insights in 
designing novel therapeutics to treat these diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10930-025-10264-x
PMID: 40082380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics Approval: Not applicable. Informed 
Consent: Not applicable. Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent to 
Publish: Not applicable.


80. EJNMMI Phys. 2025 Mar 14;12(1):23. doi: 10.1186/s40658-025-00740-9.

A novel method for harmonization of PET image spatial resolution without 
phantoms.

Carbonell F(1), Zijdenbos AP(2), Hempel E(3), Hajós M(3), Bedell BJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Biospective Inc, 1255 Peel Street, Suite 560, Montreal, QC, H3B 2T9, Canada. 
felix@biospective.com.
(2)Biospective Inc, 1255 Peel Street, Suite 560, Montreal, QC, H3B 2T9, Canada.
(3)Cognito Therapeutics, 1218 Massachusetts Ave., Suite 200, Cambridge, MA, 
02138, USA.

BACKGROUND: Estimation of the spatial resolution in real images is extremely 
important in several fields, including crystallography, optics, microscopy, and 
tomography. In human PET imaging, estimating spatial resolution typically 
involves the acquisition of images from a physical phantom, typically a Hoffman 
phantom, which poses a logistical burden, especially in large multi-center 
studies. Indeed, phantom images may not always be readily available, and this 
method requires constant monitoring of scanner updates or replacements, scanning 
protocol changes, and image reconstruction guidelines to establish a equivalence 
with scans acquired from human subjects.
METHODS: We propose a new computational approach that allows estimation of 
spatial resolution directly from human subject PET images. The proposed 
technique is based on the generalization of the logarithmic intensity plots in 
the 2D Fourier domain to the 3D case. The spatial resolution of the image is 
obtained through the estimated coefficients of a multiple linear regression 
problem having the logarithm of the squared norm of the Fourier transform as 
dependent variable and the squared 3D frequencies as multiple predictors.
RESULTS: The proposed approach was applied to a cohort of subjects consisting of 
[18F]florbetapir amyloid PET images and matching phantoms from a Phase II 
clinical trial, and a second cohort including β-amyloid, FDG, and tau PET images 
from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) study. The resulting 
in-plane and axial resolution estimators varied between 3.5 mm and 8.5 mm for 
both PET and matching phantom images. They also yielded less than one voxel size 
across-subjects variability in groups of images sharing the same PET scanner 
model and reconstruction parameters. For human PET images, we also proved that 
the spatial resolution estimators showed: (1) a very high reproducibility, as 
measured by intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC > 0.985), (2) a strong 
cross-tracer linear correlations, and (3) a high within-subject longitudinal 
consistency, as measured by the maximum difference value between pairs of visits 
from the same subject.
CONCLUSIONS: Our novel approach does not only eliminate the need for surrogate 
phantom data, but also provides a general framework that can be applied to a 
wide range of tracers and other imaging modalities, such as SPECT.
CLINICAL TRIAL DATA: Cognito Therapeutics' OVERTURE clinical trial (NCT03556280, 
2021-08-24), https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03556280 .

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40658-025-00740-9
PMCID: PMC11906943
PMID: 40082316

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: All procedures 
performed in studies involving human participants were in accordance with the 
ethical standards of the National Institute of Aging (NIA) and with the 1964 
Helsinki declaration and its later amendments or comparable ethical standards. 
Informed consent: Informed consent was obtained from all individual participants 
included in the study. Conflict of interest: Author Felix Carbonell is an 
employee of Biospective Inc. Authors Alex Zijdenbos and Barry J. Bedell are 
shareholders of Biospective Inc. Mihály Hajós and Evan Hempel are employees and 
own stock options in Cognito Therapeutics, Inc. Mihály Hajós has patent 
applications assigned to Cognito Therapeutics, Inc.


81. Int J Stem Cells. 2025 May 30;18(2):173-185. doi: 10.15283/ijsc24116. Epub
2025  Mar 14.

Effects of Dexamethasone and Tacrolimus on Mesenchymal Stem Cell Characteristics 
and Gene Expression.

Lee NK(1)(2), Na DL(3)(4)(5), Myeong SH(1)(2)(4), Lee SY(1), Lee NH(1), Jang 
H(6), Seo SW(2)(3)(4)(7)(8), Chang JW(1)(2)(9), Kim HJ(2)(3)(4)(7)(8), Son 
HJ(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Cell and Gene Therapy Institute, Research Institute for Future Medicine, 
Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Happymind Clinic, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(7)Neuroscience Center, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(8)Department of Digital Health, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, Korea.
(9)Cell and Gene Therapy Institute, ENCell Co., Ltd., Seoul, Korea.

Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are frequently used for therapeutic applications 
in both pre-clinical and clinical settings owing to their capacity for immune 
modulation and neuroprotective effects. However, transient fever is commonly 
observed as an adverse event following MSC injection in patients with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we investigated the potential impact of 
immunosuppressants such as dexamethasone and tacrolimus on altering the 
characteristics of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs). Additionally, we 
examined whether these immunosuppressants affect the persistence of hMSCs or the 
immune response upon their administration into the brain parenchyma of AD mice. 
The exposure of hMSCs to high concentrations of dexamethasone and tacrolimus in 
vitro did not significantly alter the characteristics of hMSCs. The expression 
of genes related to innate immune responses, such as Irak1, Irf3, Nod1, and 
Ifnar1, was significantly downregulated by the additional administration of 
dexamethasone and tacrolimus to the brain parenchyma of AD mice. However, hMSC 
persistence in the AD mouse brain was not affected. The results of this study 
support the use of immunosuppressants to mitigate fever during stem cell therapy 
in patients with AD.

DOI: 10.15283/ijsc24116
PMCID: PMC12122247
PMID: 40082066

Conflict of interest statement: Potential Conflict of Interest Jong Wook Chang 
is currently employed by ENCell Co., Ltd. ENCell Co., Ltd was not involved in 
the study design, collection, analysis, interpretation of data, the writing of 
this article, or the decision to submit it for publication. All the other 
authors have no potential conflict of interest to declare.


82. Life Sci Alliance. 2025 Mar 13;8(5):e202403080. doi: 10.26508/lsa.202403080. 
Print 2025 May.

The late-onset Alzheimer's disease risk factor RHBDF2 is a modifier of 
microglial TREM2 proteolysis.

Jocher G(1)(2), Ozcelik G(1)(2), Müller SA(1)(2), Hsia HE(1)(2), Lastra Osua 
M(1)(2), Hofmann LI(1)(2), Aßfalg M(1)(2), Dinkel L(1), Feng X(1)(2), Schlepckow 
K(1), Willem M(3), Haass C(1)(3)(4), Tahirovic S(1), Blobel CP(5)(6)(7), 
Lichtenthaler SF(8)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)https://ror.org/043j0f473 German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(2)https://ror.org/02kkvpp62 Neuroproteomics, School of Medicine and Health, 
Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(3)Biomedical Center (BMC), Division of Metabolic Biochemistry, Faculty of 
Medicine, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, Germany.
(4)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(5)Department of Medicine and Department of Biochemistry, Cellular and Molecular 
Biology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Arthritis and Tissue Degeneration Program, Hospital for Special Surgery, New 
York, NY, USA.
(7)Institute for Advanced Study, Technische Universität München, Garching, 
Germany.
(8)https://ror.org/043j0f473 German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(DZNE), Munich, Germany stefan.lichtenthaler@dzne.de.

The cell surface receptor TREM2 is a key genetic risk factor and drug target in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the brain, TREM2 is expressed in microglia, where 
it undergoes proteolytic cleavage, linked to AD risk, but the responsible 
protease in microglia is still unknown. Another microglial-expressed AD risk 
factor is catalytically inactive rhomboid 2 (iRhom2, RHBDF2), which binds to and 
acts as a non-catalytic subunit of the metalloprotease ADAM17. A potential role 
in TREM2 proteolysis is not yet known. Using microglial-like BV2 cells, bone 
marrow-derived macrophages, and primary murine microglia, we identify iRhom2 as 
a modifier of ADAM17-mediated TREM2 shedding. Loss of iRhom2 increased TREM2 in 
cell lysates and at the cell surface and enhanced TREM2 signaling and microglial 
phagocytosis of the amyloid β-peptide (Aβ). This study establishes ADAM17 as a 
physiological TREM2 protease in microglia and suggests iRhom2 as a potential 
drug target for modulating TREM2 proteolysis in AD.

© 2025 Jocher et al.

DOI: 10.26508/lsa.202403080
PMCID: PMC11909414
PMID: 40081988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C Haass and K Schlepckow collaborate with Denali 
Therapeutics, and C Haass is a member of the advisory boards of AviadoBio and 
Cure Ventures. CP Blobel and the Hospital for Special Surgery have identified 
iRhom2 inhibitors and have co-founded the start-up company SciRhom in Munich to 
commercialize iRhom2 inhibitors. H-E Hsia is an employee of Roche Diagnostics 
GmbH at the time when the article was submitted.


83. BMJ Open. 2025 Mar 13;15(3):e099976. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2025-099976.

Development and evaluation of a healthcare decision-making intervention for 
African American parent-adult daughter dementia dyads: a mixed-methods study 
protocol.

Bonds Johnson K(1), Lyons KS(2), Epps F(3), Daniel G(4), Monin JK(5), Powell 
W(6), Hepburn K(4).

Author information:
(1)Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA kalisha.bonds@emory.edu.
(2)Boston College, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)UT Health San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, USA.
(4)Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(5)Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, UConn Health, Farmington, Connecticut, USA.

INTRODUCTION: There is a higher proportion of African American care partners due 
to African American older adults having more than twice the prevalence of 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) compared with non-Hispanic 
white older adults in the USA. African American adult daughters are the largest 
group of care partners of African American persons living with ADRD. Within this 
role, they are faced with navigating multiple health-related decisions to 
optimise the quality of life of their parent with ADRD, which can negatively 
influence their own quality of life. This study is guided by three conceptual 
frameworks: National Institute on Aging's Health Disparities Research Framework, 
Black Family Socio-Ecological Context Model and Superwoman Schema. The purpose 
of this study was to develop a structured culturally responsive prototype 
intervention that will improve the healthcare decision-making self-efficacy and 
quality of life of African American parent-adult daughter dementia dyads. The 
prototype intervention will be piloted in a single-group clinical trial to 
evaluate feasibility, acceptability and preliminary efficacy.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This study will be conducted in two phases using an 
explanatory sequential mixed-methods design, wherein qualitative data collection 
follows quantitative data collection to explain the findings. In the first 
phase, the quantitative data collection will examine the behavioural, 
sociocultural and environmental lifecourse influences on healthcare 
decision-making self-efficacy and the quality of life of 70 African American 
parent-adult daughter dementia dyads (ie, persons living with ADRD and their 
adult daughter care partners). The qualitative data collection will consist of a 
nested sample of 15 dementia dyads and focus on the decision-making processes 
that affect current and future healthcare use for the parents living with ADRD. 
Further, this study will explore how these processes influence the quality of 
life of both members. In phase 2, integrated findings from phase 1 will provide 
the basis for the development of the prototype intervention using design 
thinking and intervention mapping with key informants and community advisory 
board oversight. Once the prototype intervention is developed, a clinical trial 
will be conducted. This trial will enrol a new sample of 20 African American 
parent-adult daughter dementia dyads using a pretest-post-test design.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The first phase of the study has been approved by the 
Emory University Institutional Review Board and is registered on 
ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT05139290). This study will contribute to the development 
of a structured culturally responsive prototype intervention for African 
American parent-adult daughter dementia dyads. The findings will determine 
whether a larger randomised controlled trial is warranted. Results of the 
research will be disseminated in both academic and community settings.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT05139290.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2025-099976
PMCID: PMC11906994
PMID: 40081986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


84. J Nucl Med. 2025 Mar 13;66(4):612-9. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.124.268700. Online 
ahead of print.

Development and Validation of a (18)F-Flortaucipir PET Visual Stratification 
Method.

Tunali I(1), Wang J(1), Arora AK(1), Kim MJ(1), Shcherbinin S(1), Pontecorvo 
M(1), Iaccarino L(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana; and.
(2)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana; and 
iaccarino_leonardo@lilly.com.
(3)Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A, Sesto Fiorentino, Italy.

Tau PET quantitation methods have been used in research settings and clinical 
trials to measure tau burden for diagnostic, staging, and prognostic purposes. 
However, these methods require specialized software, skilled analysts, and 
advanced image processing. We developed a novel 18F-flortaucipir PET (FTP, or 
Tauvid) visual read method enabling stratification of patients with Alzheimer 
disease (AD) according to the tau level without the need for quantitation. An 
independent reader study (I7E-AV-A26) was conducted to test this method against 
a quantitation-based high-tau standard of truth. Methods: A total of 140 
baseline or screening FTP scans were randomly selected from the TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 
2 phase 3 trial (NCT04437511). Five qualified imaging physicians were trained 
for the FTP visual stratification method, using previously identified thresholds 
and cortical regions of interest thought to optimally stratify high-tau and 
non-high-tau scans. Positive and negative percent agreement (PPA and NPA, 
respectively) between visual stratifications and quantitation-based high tau 
(AD-signature SUV ratio > 1.46) were calculated. Predefined success criteria 
were met if the lower bounds of a 2-sided 95% CI for PPA and NPA were 50% or 
greater for at least 3 of the 5 readers. Inter- and intrareader reliability were 
assessed using Fleiss κ (n = 140) and Cohen κ (n = 20 test-retest scans) 
metrics. Results: The median PPA and NPA were 83.4% and 88.9%, respectively, 
with lower bounds of 2-sided 95% CIs being 50% or greater for all readers. The 
Fleiss κ-point estimate was 0.8882 (95% CI, 0.8356-0.9409) and the Cohen κ-point 
estimate was 0.9599 (95% CI, 0.9049-1.000) for all readers, indicating almost 
perfect inter- and intrareader agreement. Study I7E-AV-A26 successfully 
validated the feasibility of the FTP visual stratification method, possibly 
supporting AD staging and prognosis with high inter- and intrareader agreements, 
confirming the reliability of the method. Conclusion: Future investigations may 
include expanding the validation dataset, including real-world clinical data 
from diverse populations, using autopsy confirmation, exploring alternative 
regions and thresholds for other tau PET stratifications, and assessing 
differences in treatment response among visually stratified participants 
enrolled in disease-modifying therapy trials.

© 2025 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.124.268700
PMCID: PMC11960607
PMID: 40081955


85. Pract Neurol. 2025 Mar 12:pn-2024-004400. doi: 10.1136/pn-2024-004400. Online
 ahead of print.

The microbiome: what a neurologist needs to know.

Dehghanizai AB(1), Stewart CJ(2), Thomas RH(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(2)Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)Neurology, Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK 
Rhys.Thomas@ncl.ac.uk.
(4)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

The gastrointestinal tract is inhabited by trillions of micro-organisms that 
form the gut microbiome, which serves various functions that can influence 
neurological pathways. It can release metabolites that could affect the nervous 
system. The bidirectional communication between the intestine and the central 
nervous system is known as the gut-brain axis. This communication can be 
impacted by the microbiota in various direct and indirect ways. There has been a 
suggested connection between the microbiome and many neurological disorders, 
including epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and multiple 
sclerosis. This has been explored in human and animal studies. While no 
microbial biomarkers have been identified yet, alterations in several taxa have 
been suggested to be associated with disease states. The potential of the 
microbiome to modulate neurological function has sparked multiple clinical 
trials using gut-altering treatments, some with positive preliminary results.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/pn-2024-004400
PMID: 40081897

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: ABD has no conflicts. CJS 
has performed consultancy for Astarte Medical, receiving lecture honoraria from 
Danone Early Life Nutrition and Nestle Nutrition Institute, supervising a BBSRC 
collaborative training partnership PhD student for which Nestlé is involved (no 
salary or other personal payment is provided by Nestlé). He has no share options 
or other conflicts. RHT has received honoraria from Angelini, Bial, Biocodex, 
Eisai, Jazz, LivaNova, Paladin, Neuraxpharm, Sanofi, Takeda, UCB Pharma and 
UNEEG.


86. Neuropharmacology. 2025 Jul 1;272:110410. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2025.110410.  Epub 2025 Mar 11.

Multi-functional memantine nitrate attenuated cognitive impairment in models of 
vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease through neuroprotection and increased 
cerebral blood flow.

Chen G(1), Zhang K(1), Sun M(2), Xie N(1), Wu L(3), Zhang G(4), Guo B(1), Huang 
C(1), Man Hoi MP(4), Zhang G(1), Shi C(5), Sun Y(6), Zhang Z(7), Wang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, 
Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Innovative Chemical Drug Research in 
Cardio-cerebrovascular Diseases, and Institute of New Drug Research, Jinan 
University College of Pharmacy, Guangzhou, 510632, China.
(2)Department of Medical Imaging Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinan 
University, Guangzhou, 510632, China; Department of Radiology, The Fuyang 
Hospital of Anhui Medical University, Fuyang, 236000, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, 
Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Innovative Chemical Drug Research in 
Cardio-cerebrovascular Diseases, and Institute of New Drug Research, Jinan 
University College of Pharmacy, Guangzhou, 510632, China; Department of Medical 
Imaging Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinan University, Guangzhou, 
510632, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, University of Macau, Macao Special Administrative Region, 
China.
(5)Department of Medical Imaging Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinan 
University, Guangzhou, 510632, China. Electronic address: tsczcn@jnu.edu.cn.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, 
Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Innovative Chemical Drug Research in 
Cardio-cerebrovascular Diseases, and Institute of New Drug Research, Jinan 
University College of Pharmacy, Guangzhou, 510632, China. Electronic address: 
yxy0723@163.com.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, 
Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Innovative Chemical Drug Research in 
Cardio-cerebrovascular Diseases, and Institute of New Drug Research, Jinan 
University College of Pharmacy, Guangzhou, 510632, China. Electronic address: 
zaijunzhang@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD) are two prevalent forms of 
dementia. VaD is linked to cerebrovascular lesions, such as those from white 
matter ischemia and chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, which can also occur in AD. 
Nitric oxide (NO) regulates cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the central nervous 
system. Memantine is an NMDA receptor antagonist approved for AD treatment. This 
study investigated the efficacy and molecular mechanism of MN-08, a novel 
memantine nitrate, in one VaD model (2VO) and two AD models (APP/PS1 mice and 
Aβ1-42-induced mice). MN-08 increased CBF, ameliorated cognitive and memory 
functions in VaD and AD, and was more effective than memantine. MN-08 increased 
the survival rate of CA1 neurons and mitigated white matter lesions and axonal 
damage. Moreover, MN-08 protected neurons from OGD-induced loss and promoted 
axonal outgrowth in the hippocampus by upregulating phosphorylated Akt (p-Akt), 
glycogen synthase kinase-3β (p-GSK3β), and high-molecular-weight neurofilaments 
(p-NFH). The beneficial effects of MN-08 were attenuated by carboxy-PTIO, a 
potent NO scavenger, suggesting that MN-08-derived NO may alleviate cognitive 
impairment from cerebral hypoperfusion. Taken together, our studies demonstrate 
that MN-08 is a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment of dementia 
including VaD and AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2025.110410
PMID: 40081796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


87. Brain Res Bull. 2025 May;224:111295. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111295.
 Epub 2025 Mar 11.

Decreased brain interstitial fluid dynamics is associated with risk of 
Alzheimer's disease-related cognitive decline.

Guo Y(1), Liu T(2), Chen H(1), Zhou L(3), Huang W(1), Zhang K(4), Wang X(1), 
Wang Y(5), Zhou JH(6), Chen F(7); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Hainan General Hospital (Hainan Affiliated Hospital 
of Hainan Medical University), Haikou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Hainan General Hospital (Hainan Affiliated Hospital 
of Hainan Medical University), Haikou, China. Electronic address: 
ltao829@163.com.
(3)Department of Radiology, Brain Health Imaging Institute (BHII), Weill Cornell 
Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Hainan General Hospital (Hainan Affiliated Hospital 
of Hainan Medical University), Haikou, China.
(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, 
USA; Department of Radiology, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY 10065, 
USA.
(6)Centre for Sleep and Cognition, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore.
(7)Department of Radiology, Hainan General Hospital (Hainan Affiliated Hospital 
of Hainan Medical University), Haikou, China. Electronic address: 
fenger0802@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Diffusion-tensor image analysis along the perivascular space (ALPS) 
index that has the potential to reflect brain interstitial fluid (ISF) dynamics 
may predict the development of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). We aimed to study 
whether brain ISF dynamics indicated by the ALPS index relate to AD dementia 
diagnosis and AD-related changes.
METHODS: This study included a discovery cohort (n = 180) and a validation 
cohort (n = 127), which were composed of cognitively normal, subjective memory 
concern, mild cognitive impairment, and AD dementia subjects. All participants 
underwent brain magnetic resonance imaging examination and neuropsychological 
evaluation. The diffusivities and diffusion-tensor image analysis along the 
perivascular space (ALPS) were calculated. The support vector machine (SVM) 
model for AD dementia diagnosis was built in the discovery cohort and validated 
in the validation cohort. Linear mixed-effects models were used to evaluate the 
association between the ALPS and cognitive decline. Cox regression models were 
used to evaluate the association between the ALPS and the risk of AD dementia.
RESULTS: There was a lower median ALPS index in the AD dementia group compared 
to other groups (all P < 0.05) for both cohorts. The SVM model for AD dementia 
diagnosis produced an AUC of 0.802 in the discovery cohort (P < 0.001) and 0.783 
in the external validation cohort (P < 0.001). Higher ALPS levels were 
associated with less cognitive decline (P < 0.001). Moreover, lower baseline 
ALPS had a greater risk of converting to AD dementia (P = 0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: The SVM model based on diffusivities and ALPS was effective for AD 
dementia diagnosis, and higher ALPS levels are associated with a lower risk of 
AD-related changes. These findings suggest that ALPS may provide a useful AD 
progression or treatment biomarker.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111295
PMID: 40081504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


88. J Aging Phys Act. 2025 Mar 13:1-9. doi: 10.1123/japa.2024-0139. Online ahead
of  print.

Perceptions About Dyadic Physical Activity Intervention for Rural-Dwelling 
People With Cognitive Impairment.

Hoffman RM(1), Murphy BR(1), Watanabe-Galloway S(2)(3), Vidoni ED(4), Riffin 
CA(5), Monin JK(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Creighton University, Omaha, NE, USA.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 
USA.
(3)Buffett Cancer Center Community Outreach & Engagement (BCC COE) Office, 
University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, USA.
(4)University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Social and Behavioral Sciences, Yale School of Public Health, Yale 
University, New Haven, CT, USA.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Rural populations face an elevated risk of Alzheimer's 
disease and related dementias partially attributed to modifiable risk factors 
such as physical inactivity. The study gathered key community partners' 
perspectives about (a) feasibility of implementing the telerehabilitation 
physical activity behavioral (TPAB) intervention, a virtual program aimed at 
increasing daily stepping with sensor-based monitoring, and (b) necessary 
adaptions for implementation for rural-dwelling people with cognitive impairment 
and care partners (dyads).
METHODS: Eleven rural-dwelling individuals (three medical providers, four older 
adults, and four care partners of individuals with mild cognitive impairment) in 
Nebraska were recruited for a focus group via fliers and word of mouth. The 
person-based approach was used to gain the perspectives of participants during a 
1-hr group discussion regarding six dimensions of feasibility. Session 
transcriptions were analyzed using thematic analysis.
RESULTS: Participants highlighted the need to improve physical activity in the 
community and supported care partners receiving TPAB alongside individuals with 
mild cognitive impairment. Suggested modifications to TPAB included, 
establishing a local champion, integrating local resources, involving primary 
care providers, setting recruitment deadlines, using participant testimonies for 
recruitment, and emphasizing program individualization.
CONCLUSION: Overall, participants perceived TPAB was practical, feasible, and 
necessary for rural-dwelling participants with cognitive impairment and their 
care partners; however, several adaptations and the creation of the Cognitive 
Impairment Rural Community-TPAB are required to optimize rural implementation. 
Significance/Implications: There is an identified need for the TPAB intervention 
with outlined redesign approaches to facilitate intervention development and 
rural implementation.

DOI: 10.1123/japa.2024-0139
PMID: 40081396


89. J Psychiatr Res. 2025 Apr;184:288-296. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2025.03.005.
 Epub 2025 Mar 8.

Associations between cerebrospinal fluid synaptic protein biomarkers and 
cognitive function in bipolar disorder.

Knorr U(1), Simonsen AH(2), Nilsson J(3), Brinkmalm A(4), Zetterberg H(5), 
Blennow K(6), Knudsen MB(7), Forman J(7), Miskowiak KW(8), Hasselbalch SG(9), 
Kessing LV(10).

Author information:
(1)Copenhagen Affective Disorder Research Center (CADIC), Psychiatric Center 
Copenhagen, Department Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of 
Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: 
ulla.knorr@regionh.dk.
(2)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at 
University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(4)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at 
University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden.
(5)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at 
University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden; Department of 
Neurodegenerative Disease, University College London, Queen Square, London, UK; 
UK Dementia Research Institute University College London, London, UK; Hong Kong 
Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, PR China; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease 
Research Center, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 53792, USA.
(6)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at 
University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden; Paris Brain Institute, ICM, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, Paris, France; 
Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, PR China.
(7)Section of Biostatistics, Department of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(8)Copenhagen Affective Disorder Research Center (CADIC), Psychiatric Center 
Copenhagen, Department Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of 
Psychology, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.
(9)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(10)Copenhagen Affective Disorder Research Center (CADIC), Psychiatric Center 
Copenhagen, Department Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of 
Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

This study is the first to investigate the association between a comprehensive 
panel of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) synaptic protein biomarkers and cognitive 
function using data from a prospective cohort study including N = 59 patients 
with bipolar disorder (BD) in remission and N = 37 healthy control individuals 
(HC). The CSF synaptic protein biomarkers included neuronal pentraxin (NPTX)1, 
NPTX2, 14-3-3 proteins, AP-2 complex subunit-beta, beta-synuclein, complexin-2, 
gamma-synuclein, NPTX-receptor, phosphatidylethanolamine-binding proteins, rab 
GDP dissociation inhibitor-alpha, syntaxins-1B and 7. The biomarkers of synaptic 
dysfunction were analyzed by targeted mass spectrometry. The primary cognition 
measure was a global cognitive composite score based on neuropsychological tests 
of verbal learning and memory, executive function, psychomotor speed, and 
sustained attention. Our primary hypothesis was that levels of NPTX1 and NPTX2 
were associated with global cognition and verbal memory. The study revealed 
consistent positive associations between CSF concentrations of NPTX1 and NPTX2 
and global cognitive function. However, only the association with a tryptic 
peptide from NPTX2 (VAELEDEK) remained statistically significant after 
adjustment for multiple tests. No consistent trends or significant relationships 
were found between NPTX1 and NPTX2 and verbal memory. NPTXs showed positive 
associations with sustained attention, and the NPTX receptor was positively 
associated with global cognition scores. Similar trends were found in BD 
patients and HC individuals. The study provides novel evidence for a potentially 
pivotal role of CSF synaptic proteins, particularly NPTX1, NPTX2, and 
NPTX-receptor, in shaping global cognitive function across BD and HC populations 
and increases our understanding of the neurobiological foundations for cognitive 
functions across diagnostic boundaries.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2025.03.005
PMID: 40081262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Authors UK, 
AHS, JF, JN, AM, MK, and SGH reported no biomedical financial interests or 
potential conflicts of interest. LVK has within the preceding three years been a 
consultant for Lundbeck, and Teva. HZ has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
KB has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for AC Immune, Acumen, 
ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Novartis, Ono 
Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at 
data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, 
produced educational materials and participated in educational programs for AC 
Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper. 
KWM has received consultancy fees from Lundbeck, Angelini, and Gedeon Richter in 
the past three years.


90. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Jun 1;159:108347. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108347. Epub
2025  Mar 8.

Phenylpropanoids of Eleutherococcus senticosus (Rupr. & maxim.) maxim. Alleviate 
oxidative stress in Alzheimer's disease in vitro and in vivo models by 
regulating Mst1 and affecting the Nrf2/Sirt3 pathway.

Yang R(1), Meng X(1), Zhao W(1), Xu SQ(1), Wang SY(1), Li MM(1), Guan W(1), Chen 
QS(2), Zhang LL(2), Kuang HX(1), Li H(3), Yang BY(4), Liu Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Basic and Application Research of Beiyao, Ministry of 
Education, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin 150040, China.
(2)Traditional Chinese medicine biological genetics (Heilongjiang province 
double first-class construction interdiscipline, College of Agriculture, 
Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin 150030, China.
(3)Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Fujian 350122, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Basic and Application Research of Beiyao, Ministry of 
Education, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin 150040, China. 
Electronic address: ybywater@163.com.
(5)Key Laboratory of Basic and Application Research of Beiyao, Ministry of 
Education, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin 150040, China. 
Electronic address: lifeliuyan@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder, and oxidative 
stress plays a significant role in its progression. Owing to its nourishing 
effects, Eleutherococcus senticosus (Rupr. & maxim.) maxim. (ES) has gained 
widespread popularity globally as a functional food and long-term consumption 
has been shown to enhance memory. The phenylpropanoid components extracted from 
Eleutherococcus senticosus (Rupr. & maxim.) maxim. (ESP) exhibit a diverse array 
of bioactivities and are commonly employed in the treatment of central nervous 
system (CNS) disorders. Nonetheless, the exact mechanisms by which ESP 
alleviates oxidative stress in AD models require further investigation. 
Therefore, this study utilized SAMP8 mice as models for AD and employed 
L-glutamate (L-Glu)-induced HT22 cells to establish an in vitro AD model. The 
effects of ESP on cognitive function were evaluated using the Morris water maze 
(MWM) test. Additionally, various techniques such as pathology, 
immunofluorescence staining (IF), ROS staining, cellular thermal shift assay 
(CETSA), Mst1 inhibitor analysis, and western blotting (WB) were conducted to 
further investigate the pharmacological efficacy and potential molecular 
mechanisms of ESP. In vivo, ESP was found to improve cognitive function in SAMP8 
mice and alleviate AD-like pathological features. In vitro, ESP reduced 
intracellular ROS levels. Mechanistically, CETSA analysis confirmed the binding 
affinity between ESP and Mst1, demonstrated that ESP modulated the Mst1 
signaling pathway to mitigate oxidative stress and decrease ROS levels. These 
findings suggested that ESP holded significant potential for developing 
therapeutic strategies for AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108347
PMID: 40081261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could be perceived as influencing the work reported in this 
manuscript.


91. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2025 Jun;264:108703. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2025.108703. Epub 2025 Mar 7.

MCNEL: A multi-scale convolutional network and ensemble learning for Alzheimer's 
disease diagnosis.

Yan F(1), Peng L(1), Dong F(2), Hirota K(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science and Technology, Changchun University of Science 
and Technology, Changchun 130022, China.
(2)Faculty of Mechanical Engineering & Mechanics, Ningbo University, Ningbo 
315211, China. Electronic address: dongfangyan@nbu.edu.cn.
(3)School of Computing, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama 226-8502, Japan.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) significantly threatens 
community well-being and healthcare resource allocation due to its high 
incidence and mortality. Therefore, early detection and intervention are crucial 
for reducing AD-related fatalities. However, the existing deep learning-based 
approaches often struggle to capture complex structural features of magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) data effectively. Common techniques for multi-scale 
feature fusion, such as direct summation and concatenation methods, often 
introduce redundant noise that can negatively affect model performance. These 
challenges highlight the need for developing more advanced methods to improve 
feature extraction and fusion, aiming to enhance diagnostic accuracy.
METHODS: This study proposes a multi-scale convolutional network and ensemble 
learning (MCNEL) framework for early and accurate AD diagnosis. The framework 
adopts enhanced versions of the EfficientNet-B0 and MobileNetV2 models, which 
are subsequently integrated with the DenseNet121 model to create a hybrid 
feature extraction tool capable of extracting features from multi-view slices. 
Additionally, a SimAM-based feature fusion method is developed to synthesize key 
feature information derived from multi-scale images. To ensure classification 
accuracy in distinguishing AD from multiple stages of cognitive impairment, this 
study designs an ensemble learning classifier model using multiple classifiers 
and a self-adaptive weight adjustment strategy.
RESULTS: Extensive experiments on the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative (ADNI) dataset validate the effectiveness of our solution, which 
achieves average accuracies of 96.67% for ADNI-1 and 96.20% for ADNI-2, 
respectively. The results indicate that the MCNEL outperforms recent comparable 
algorithms in terms of various evaluation metrics, demonstrating superior 
performance and robustness in AD diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: This study markedly enhances the diagnostic capabilities for AD, 
allowing patients to receive timely treatments that can slow down disease 
progression and improve their quality of life.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2025.108703
PMID: 40081198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


92. Rejuvenation Res. 2025 Oct;28(5):205-216. doi: 10.1089/rej.2024.0092. Epub
2025  Mar 13.

Molecular Mechanisms of Dietary Bioactive Peptides in Treating Alzheimer's 
Disease and Mild Cognitive Impairment by Network Pharmacology and Molecular 
Docking Analysis.

Li R(1), Zi J(1), Hu Y(1), Li X(1), Cao Q(1), Li Y(1), Wang X(2), Xiong J(1)(3), 
Cheng G(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Safety, Healthy Food Evaluation Research 
Center, West China School of Public Health and West China Fourth Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Translational Medicine, Center for Translational 
Medicine, Key Laboratory of Birth Defects and Related Diseases of Women and 
Children, Ministry of Education, Maternal & Child Nutrition Center, West China 
Second University Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(3)Food Safety Monitoring and Risk Assessment Key Laboratory of Sichuan 
Province, Chengdu, China.
(4)Children's Medicine Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Chengdu, China.

Emerging evidence suggests that bioactive peptides from various foods have 
therapeutic potentials in improving cognitive function in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We aimed to explore the 
characteristics of these peptides and their mechanisms on AD/MCI using a network 
pharmacology approach. We compiled a dataset of cognition-enhancing peptides 
from literatures and identified shared targets between these peptides and AD/MCI 
using Swiss Target Predication, PharmMapper, OMIM, GeneCards, TTD, and Drugbank 
databases. We then performed functional enrichment analysis and constructed a 
gene-gene interaction network to identify key hub targets. Additionally, we 
investigated the transcription factors (TFs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) regulating 
these hub genes. Molecular docking and dynamic simulations were performed using 
AutoDock Vina and GROMACS. We identified 59 cognition-enhancing oligopeptides, 
typically short and rich in arginine. These peptides were predicted to interact 
with 222 potential targets relevant to AD/MCI, with functional pathways mainly 
involving neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions and inflammation. We 
identified 15 hub targets, regulated by 144 TFs and 95 miRNAs. Notably, peptides 
containing the "Trp-Tyr" sequence demonstrated strong binding affinities to many 
hub targets, especially matrix metalloproteinase-9. The findings provided 
valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms through which bioactive peptides 
may act against AD/MCI and highlight the potential of network pharmacology for 
future exploration of bioactive peptides from natural foods.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2024.0092
PMID: 40080392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. J Mol Neurosci. 2025 Mar 13;75(1):34. doi: 10.1007/s12031-025-02317-8.

The Potential of cfDNA as Biomarker: Opportunities and Challenges for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Aydın Ş(1), Özdemir S(2), Adıgüzel A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Atatürk University, 
Erzurum, Turkey.
(2)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Atatürk University, 
Erzurum, Turkey. selcuk.ozdemir@atauni.edu.tr.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Faculty of Science, Atatürk 
University, Erzurum, Turkey. adiguzel@atauni.edu.tr.

Neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), 
are characterized by the progressive and gradual degeneration of neurons. The 
prevalence and rates of these disorders rise significantly with age. As life 
spans continue to increase in many countries, the number of cases is expected to 
grow in the foreseeable future. Early and precise diagnosis, along with 
appropriate surveillance, continues to pose a challenge. The high heterogeneity 
of neurodegenerative diseases calls for more accurate and definitive biomarkers 
to improve clinical therapy. Cell-free DNA (cfDNA), including fragmented DNA 
released into bodily fluids via apoptosis, necrosis, or active secretion, has 
emerged as a promising non-invasive diagnostic tool for various disorders 
including neurodegenerative diseases. cfDNA can serve as an indicator of ongoing 
cellular damage and mortality, including neuronal loss, and may provide valuable 
insights into disease processes, progression, and therapeutic responses. This 
review will first cover the key aspects of cfDNA and then examine recent 
advances in its potential use as a biomarker for neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-025-02317-8
PMCID: PMC11906534
PMID: 40080233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


94. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(4):963-979. doi: 10.1177/13872877251321118.
Epub  2025 Mar 13.

Vascular dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease: Exploring the potential of aerobic 
and resistance exercises as therapeutic strategies.

Alves L(1), Hashiguchi D(2), Loss CM(3), van Praag H(3), Longo BM(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, UNIFESP, São 
Paulo, SP, Brasil.
(2)Instituto do Cérebro, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, UFRN, 
Natal, RN, Brasil.
(3)Stiles-Nicholson Brain Institute, Charles E. Schmidt College of Medicine, 
Florida Atlantic University, FAU, Jupiter, FL, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality 
worldwide, as a result of cognitive decline and neurological dysfunction. In AD, 
reduced cerebral blood flow and impaired vascularization result from capillary 
bed degeneration and decreased angiogenesis, as observed in both patients and 
animal models. Physical exercise is recognized as a potential intervention to 
delay AD progression and reduce disease risk. While most studies have focused on 
the benefits of aerobic exercise (AE), emerging evidence suggests that 
resistance exercise (RE) also exerts positive effects on overall health and 
cognitive function in aging and AD. However, a notable gap in knowledge remains 
regarding the effects of RE on cerebral blood flow and vascular structure. This 
review explores the processes by which AE and RE influence brain vascularization 
in aging and AD, including blood flow, endothelial function, angiogenesis and 
neurotrophic factor levels. Based on pre-clinical and clinical studies, we 
conclude that both AE and RE contribute to improved cerebral blood flow and 
vascular function, promoting vascular repair in the aging and AD-affected brain. 
By examining the relationship between exercise modalities and brain 
vascularization, this review expands knowledge regarding the processes 
underlying the neuroprotective effects of exercise in neurodegenerative and 
aging conditions.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251321118
PMID: 40079781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


95. Drug Dev Res. 2025 Apr;86(2):e70073. doi: 10.1002/ddr.70073.

A Novel Oxo-Palmatine Derivative 2q as Potent Reversal Agents Against 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Pang S(1)(2), Li Z(3), Liu A(4), Luo ZH(5), Yin H(1)(2), Fan S(1)(2), Shi 
J(1)(2), Liu N(5), Pan S(5), Yang YJ(4), Zhang GJ(1)(2)(6), Chen J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The Laboratory of Neurological Disorders and Brain Cognition, Beijing 
Pediatric Research Institute, Beijing Children's Hospital, National Center for 
Children's Health, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)Laboratory for Clinical Medicine, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Neuropathology, Beijing Neurosurgical Institute, Beijing 
Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(4)Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking 
Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Human Disease Comparative Medicine, National Health 
Commission of China (NHC), Institute of Laboratory Animal Science, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(6)Key Laboratory of Major Diseases in Children, Ministry of Education, Beijing, 
China.

Palmatine (PAL), as an active ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine, had 
been demonstrated efficacy in ameliorating the manifestations of AD. Our 
research group has previously designed and synthesized the novel oxo-PAL 
derivative 2q and found that it has exhibited notable neuroprotective 
properties. However, compound 2q therapeutic impact on AD remains uncertain. In 
the current investigation, our findings demonstrated that compound 2q displayed 
significant anti-AβOs activity in vitro by using xCELLigence analysis, and 
showed a high likelihood of crossing the blood-brain barrier. Furthermore, 
administration of compound 2q yielded a notable amelioration in Aβ accumulation 
and hyperphosphorylation of Tau in 3×Tg mice. Additionally, it was observed that 
compound 2q potentially enhanced the pathological characteristics of AD by 
targeting Potassium/Sodium Hyperpolarization-Activated Cyclic Nucleotide-Gated 
Channel 2 (HCN2). In conclusion, compound 2q emerged as a promising candidate 
for AD treatment, as it effectively restored AD-associated pathological 
impairments. Furthermore, it has been identified as a potential target of HCN2, 
thereby offering novel avenues for the development of treatments for AD.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ddr.70073
PMID: 40079275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Front Mol Neurosci. 2025 Feb 26;18:1546375. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2025.1546375. 
eCollection 2025.

Profiling hippocampal neuronal populations reveals unique gene expression 
mosaics reflective of connectivity-based degeneration in the Ts65Dn mouse model 
of Down syndrome and Alzheimer's disease.

Alldred MJ(1)(2), Ibrahim KW(1), Pidikiti H(1), Lee SH(1)(2), Heguy A(3), 
Chiosis G(4)(5), Mufson EJ(6), Stutzmann GE(7), Ginsberg SD(1)(2)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Center for Dementia Research, Nathan Kline Institute, Orangeburg, NY, United 
States.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, New York University Grossman School of Medicine, 
New York, NY, United States.
(3)Genome Technology Center, New York University Grossman School of Medicine, 
New York, NY, United States.
(4)Program in Chemical Biology, Sloan Kettering Institute, New York, NY, United 
States.
(5)Breast Cancer Medicine Service, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, United States.
(6)Department of Translational Neuroscience and Neurology, Barrow Neurological 
Institute, Phoenix, AZ, United States.
(7)Center for Neurodegenerative Disease and Therapeutics, Rosalind Franklin 
University, The Chicago Medical School, North Chicago, IL, United States.
(8)Department of Neuroscience and Physiology, New York University Grossman 
School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States.
(9)NYU Neuroscience Institute, New York University Grossman School of Medicine, 
New York, NY, United States.

INTRODUCTION: Individuals with Down syndrome (DS) exhibit neurological deficits 
throughout life including the development of in Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathology and cognitive impairment. At the cellular level, dysregulation in 
neuronal gene expression is observed in postmortem human brain and mouse models 
of DS/AD. To date, RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis of hippocampal neuronal 
gene expression including the characterization of discrete circuit-based 
connectivity in DS remains a major knowledge gap. We postulate that spatially 
characterized hippocampal neurons display unique gene expression patterns due, 
in part, to dysfunction of the integrity of intrinsic circuitry.
METHODS: We combined laser capture microdissection to microisolate individual 
neuron populations with single population RNA-seq analysis to determine gene 
expression analysis of CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons and dentate gyrus granule 
cells located in the hippocampus, a region critical for learning, memory, and 
synaptic activity.
RESULTS: The hippocampus exhibits age-dependent neurodegeneration beginning at 
~6 months of age in the Ts65Dn mouse model of DS/AD. Each population of 
excitatory hippocampal neurons exhibited unique gene expression alterations in 
Ts65Dn mice. Bioinformatic inquiry revealed unique vulnerabilities and 
differences with mechanistic implications coinciding with onset of degeneration 
in this model of DS/AD.
CONCLUSIONS: These cell-type specific vulnerabilities may underlie degenerative 
endophenotypes suggesting precision medicine targeting of individual populations 
of neurons for rational therapeutic development.

Copyright © 2025 Alldred, Ibrahim, Pidikiti, Lee, Heguy, Chiosis, Mufson, 
Stutzmann and Ginsberg.

DOI: 10.3389/fnmol.2025.1546375
PMCID: PMC11897496
PMID: 40078964

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


97. Health Sci Rep. 2025 Mar 11;8(3):e70534. doi: 10.1002/hsr2.70534. eCollection
 2025 Mar.

Growth-Associated Protein 43 Levels in the Cerebrospinal Fluid Correspond to the 
Cerebral Blood Flow Alterations in Alzheimer's Dementia Continuum: An Original 
Study.

Songhori N(1), Goushky MS(2), Khaleghi MM(3), Mojerloo M(4), Sadeghi M(5), 
Mozafar M(5), Aghdam ZB(6), Ghajar M(7), Kianifar Y(8), Karimzadeh F(9), 
Khosravi F(10), Mayeli M(5).

Author information:
(1)Amirkabir University of Technology Tehran Iran.
(2)Medical Research Center of Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Science 
Tehran Iran.
(3)Students Research Committee, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Science 
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences Isfahan Iran.
(4)Islamic Azad University of Khalkhal Ardebil Iran.
(5)School of Medicine Tehran University of Medical Science Tehran Iran.
(6)Department of Radiology Tabriz University of Medical Science Tabriz Iran.
(7)Master of Psychology Azad University of Tehran Tehran Iran.
(8)Master of Children and Adolescent Clinical Psychology of Tabriz University 
Tabriz Iran.
(9)Department of Occupational Therapy, School of Rehabilitation Sciences Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, Rehabilitation Science of Research Center Shiraz 
Iran.
(10)Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Science Tehran Iran.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a widespread neurodegenerative 
condition that has a growing impact on a global scale. This study aims to 
examine the relationship between cerebral blood flow (CBF) and the synaptic 
biomarker growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) through the utilization of 
arterial spin labeling (ASL). The research identified noteworthy correlations 
between cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) GAP-43 levels, CBF, and cognitive composite 
scores, especially among participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who 
possess the APOE-ε4 gene.
METHODS: The study examined 92 participants from the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database, including 36 cognitively normal (CN) 
and 56 MCI. The cognitive status of 42 participants was evaluated using ADNI 
composite scores. Independent t-tests and Mann-Whitney tests were used for the 
comparison of continuous variables between groups, and multiple linear 
regression analysis with adjustments for confounding factors was used to assess 
the relationship between GAP-43 and CBF values.
RESULTS: Significant positive correlations were observed between GAP-43 levels 
and (A) the executive function composite score (ADNI_EF) in CN individuals, as 
well as (B) the language composite score (ADNI_LAN) in individuals with MCI. CSF 
biomarkers and ASL regions did not show statistical significance between 
diagnostic groups after correction for multiple comparisons. No significant 
differences in baseline characteristics were found between diagnostic groups. 
However, associations were observed between ROI CBF and Mini Mental State 
Examination in various subgroups.
CONCLUSION: The findings indicate a potential function for ASL perfusion in 
identifying early AD-related alterations and gaining insight into the 
pathophysiology of AD and mild cognitive impairment.The study revealed 
associations between CBF, cognitive scores, and APOE-ε4 gene status. This study 
contributes to the comprehension of the correlation between CSF biomarkers, 
regional brain perfusion, and cognitive function in individuals with AD using 
ASL as a noninvasive approach.

© 2025 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hsr2.70534
PMCID: PMC11896815
PMID: 40078900

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


98. Brain Commun. 2025 Feb 25;7(2):fcaf092. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf092. 
eCollection 2025.

Could immunotherapy and regulatory T cells be used therapeutically to slow the 
progression of Alzheimer's disease?

Abbott V(1), Housden BE(2)(3), Houldsworth A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience, Clinical and Biomedical Sciences, University of Exeter Medical 
School, Exeter EX2 4TH, UK.
(2)Clinical and Biomedical Sciences, University of Exeter Medical School, Exeter 
EX2 4TH, UK.
(3)Living Systems Institute, University of Exeter, Exeter EX4 4QD, UK.

Alzheimer's disease and other cognitive impairments are a growing problem in the 
healthcare world with the ageing population. There are currently no effective 
treatments available; however, it has been suggested that targeting 
neuroinflammation may be a successful approach in slowing the progression of 
neurodegeneration. Reducing the destructive hyperinflammatory pathology to 
maintain homeostasis in neural tissue is a promising option to consider. This 
review explores the mechanisms behind neuroinflammation and the effectiveness of 
immunotherapy in slowing the progression of cognitive decline in patients with 
Alzheimer's disease. The key components of neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's 
disease researched are microglia, astrocytes, cytokines and CD8+ effector T 
cells. The role of oxidative stress on modulating regulatory T cells and some of 
the limitations of regulatory T cell-based therapies are also explored. 
Increasing regulatory T cells can decrease activation of microglia, 
proinflammatory cytokines and astrocytes; however, it can also increase levels 
of inflammatory cytokines. There is a complex network of regulatory T cell 
interactions that reduce Alzheimer's disease pathology, which is not fully 
understood. Exploring the current literature, further research into the use of 
immunotherapy in Alzheimer's disease is vital to determine the potential of 
these techniques; however, there is sufficient evidence to suggest that 
increasing regulatory T cells count does prevent Alzheimer's disease symptoms 
and pathology in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Some exciting innovative 
therapies are muted to explore in the future. The function of regulatory T cells 
in the presence of reactive oxygen species and oxidative stress should be 
investigated further in patients with neurogenerative disorders to ascertain if 
combination therapies could reduce oxidative stress while also enhancing 
regulatory T cells function. Could methods of immunotherapy infuse exogenous 
functional Tregs or enhance the immune environment in favour of endogenous 
regulatory T cells differentiation, thus reducing neuroinflammation in 
neurodegenerative pathology, inhibiting the progression of Alzheimer's disease?

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf092
PMCID: PMC11896979
PMID: 40078868

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests.


99. Nutrients. 2025 Mar 6;17(5):922. doi: 10.3390/nu17050922.

Exploring the Efficacy and Safety of Nutritional Supplements in Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Gualtieri P(1), Frank G(2)(3), Cianci R(4)(5), Ciancarella L(2), Romano L(2), 
Ortoman M(1), Bigioni G(1), Nicoletti F(1), Falco MI(1), La Placa G(2)(3), Di 
Renzo L(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Clinical Nutrition and Nutrigenomics, Department of Biomedicine 
and Prevention, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", 00133 Rome, Italy.
(2)School of Specialization in Food Sciences, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", 
00133 Rome, Italy.
(3)PhD School of Applied Medical-Surgical Sciences, University of Rome "Tor 
Vergata", 00133 Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Translational Medicine and Surgery, Catholic University of the 
Sacred Heart, 00168 Rome, Italy.
(5)Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura 
a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS), 00168 Rome, Italy.

Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents one of the major challenges of 
modern medicine, with a growing impact on public health and healthcare systems. 
In recent years, dietary supplements use has been the subject of increasing 
interest as a complementary strategy for the prevention and treatment of the 
disease. Materials and Methods: A Review of reviews was conducted following 
PRISMA guidelines and REAPPRAISED checklist to evaluate the efficacy and safety 
of supplement use in AD. The search, performed across major scientific 
databases, identified 54 relevant articles, including 53 reviews and one 
mini-review, after applying specific inclusion criteria and removing duplicates. 
Results: The growing body of evidence suggests that some supplements may help 
reduce cognitive decline, inflammation, and target mechanisms behind AD. 
However, many of these supplements are still under investigation, with mixed 
results highlighting the need for high-quality research. A key challenge is the 
lack of data on optimal dosages, administration duration, and long-term safety, 
which limits clinical guidelines. Some studies have reported positive effects 
from specific regimens, such as curcumin (800 mg/day), omega-3 fatty acids (2 
g/day), and resveratrol (600 mg/day). Other supplements, like phosphatidylserine 
(300 mg/day), multinutrient formulations, probiotics, vitamin E (2000 IU/day), 
and melatonin (3-10 mg/day), also show benefits, though study variability makes 
conclusions uncertain. Conclusions: While certain supplements show potential in 
mitigating cognitive decline in AD, inconsistent findings and gaps in dosage and 
safety data highlight the need for rigorous, large-scale trials. Future research 
should focus on personalized, multimodal strategies integrating targeted 
supplementation, dietary patterns, and microbiota-gut-brain interactions for 
enhanced neuroprotection.

DOI: 10.3390/nu17050922
PMCID: PMC11901643
PMID: 40077790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of the data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the 
decision to publish the results.


100. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Mar 6;26(5):2363. doi: 10.3390/ijms26052363.

Revealing Lingonberry's Neuroprotective Potential in Alzheimer's Disease Through 
Network Pharmacology and Molecular Docking.

Li J(1), Wang M(1), Wang Y(1), Peng X(1), Lv G(1)(2), Zheng T(1)(2), Peng 
Y(1)(2), Li J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Basic Medicine, 
Harbin Medical University, Harbin 150086, China.
(2)Translational Medicine Center of Northern China, Harbin 150000, China.

Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with limited 
treatment options. Lingonberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea L.) has demonstrated 
neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties, yet the underlying mechanisms 
remain unclear. This study employed network pharmacology, molecular docking, and 
molecular dynamics simulations to explore the therapeutic potential in 
Alzheimer's disease. Pathway analysis identified monoamine oxidase B as a key 
target involved in serotonergic synapse dysfunction related to Alzheimer's 
disease. Molecular docking revealed that ferulic acid, a major bioactive 
compound in lingonberry, exhibits strong binding affinity to monoamine oxidase 
B. Further molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stability of this 
interaction, highlighting the potential inhibitory effect of ferulic acid on 
monoamine oxidase B. These findings provide novel insights into the 
neuroprotective mechanisms of lingonberry and suggest its potential as a natural 
therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26052363
PMCID: PMC11899733
PMID: 40076984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.