1. Handb Clin Neurol. 2025;211:63-79. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00005-6.

The involvement of the cholinergic system in Alzheimer disease.

Cuello AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine, McGill 
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Pharmacology, Oxford University, 
Oxford, United Kingdom. Electronic address: claudio.cuello@mcgill.ca.

This chapter recounts how memory mechanisms were related to the CNS cholinergic 
system. It also examines how memory loss in aging individuals was later linked 
to cholinergic deficiencies and how extensive pharmacologic studies in primates 
led to the "Cholinergic Hypothesis" of geriatric memory loss. Building upon 
this, a series of influential publications revealed a loss of cholinergic 
markers in the cerebral cortex of postmortem Alzheimer disease brain samples. 
These studies were reinforced by histologic evidence of the degeneration of 
"magnocellular" neurons in the nucleus basalis of Meynert, the region where 
neurons that project cortical cholinergic synaptic terminals originate. 
Together, these discoveries gave rise to the so-called Cholinergic hypothesis of 
Alzheimer disease. This chapter further describes how these insights prompted 
the development of potential cholinergic therapies, initially involving 
acetylcholine precursors, followed by the introduction of anticholinesterase 
inhibitors. This progression began with Tacrine and eventually led to the 
development of more reliable and better-tolerated anticholinesterases, such as 
donepezil, rivastigmine, and galantamine-compounds still in use today. The 
narrative includes a discussion of the benefits and limitations of these drugs, 
as well as the potential of newly developed muscarinic and nicotinic agonists. 
The chapter concludes with a brief overview of the synaptic nature of 
cholinergic transmission, in contrast to the proposed "cloud" neurotransmission. 
It also emphasizes that the efficacy of anticholinesterase treatment in 
Alzheimer disease depends on the preservation of a minimal number of remaining 
cholinergic synapses. Finally, a comparison is made between the symptomatic 
cognitive outcomes of conventional anticholinesterase therapy and the more 
recent use of anti-amyloid monoclonal antibodies.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text 
and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00005-6
PMID: 40340068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Handb Clin Neurol. 2025;211:23-35. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00003-2.

The cholinergic synapses.

Soreq H(1), Bar A(2), Paldor I(3).

Author information:
(1)Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Brain Sciences, Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel; Department of Biological Chemistry, Alexander 
Silberman Institute of Life Sciences, Faculty of Mathematics and Science, Hebrew 
University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel. Electronic address: 
hermona.soreq@mail.huji.ac.il.
(2)Department of Biological Chemistry, Alexander Silberman Institute of Life 
Sciences, Faculty of Mathematics and Science, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 
Jerusalem, Israel.
(3)Department of Biological Chemistry, Alexander Silberman Institute of Life 
Sciences, Faculty of Mathematics and Science, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 
Jerusalem, Israel; Neurosurgery Department, Shaare Zedek Medical Center, 
Jerusalem, Israel.

Acetylcholine (ACh) is a leading regulatory neurotransmitter in the nervous 
system, which functions both directly and as modulator of other 
neurotransmitters. It is found in the central and peripheral nervous system, as 
well as in the autonomic system-both sympathetic and parasympathetic. In the 
central nervous system (CNS), ACh functions not only as a neurotransmitter, but 
also as a modulator of cognitive functions, including long-term and short-term 
memory, limbic activation, and alertness. No process in the mammalian body can 
commence without its participation.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text 
and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00003-2
PMID: 40340063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Handb Clin Neurol. 2025;211:161-184. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00016-0.

CNS muscarinic receptors and muscarinic receptor agonists in Alzheimer disease 
treatment.

Fisher A(1), Levey AI(2).

Author information:
(1)ADPD: Advances in Science & Therapy, International Conference on Alzheimer's 
and Parkinson's Diseases and Related Neurological Disorders, Lisbon, Portugal. 
Electronic address: fisher_a@netvision.net.il.
(2)Department of Neurology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, United States.

This review explores the main aspects that form the basis of the 
cholinergic-oriented treatment of Alzheimer disease. Muscarinic acetylcholine 
receptor subtypes in the brain and periphery are discussed. It includes a new 
and updated overview of the involvement of muscarinic receptors in Alzheimer 
disease and the recent development of new and highly selective M1 muscarinic 
receptor agonists with disease-modifying potential. Activation of the M1 
muscarinic receptor is a rational therapeutic strategy for the treatment of 
schizophrenia and Alzheimer disease, as this receptor plays a pivotal role in 
modulating cognitive deficits and the pathology of the disease. Such activation 
can be achieved through M1 allosteric and bitopic muscarinic agonists, M1 
positive allosteric modulators (M1 PAMs), and direct-acting M1 muscarinic 
orthosteric agonists. The efficacy of M1 PAMs depends on acetylcholine, which 
declines in Alzheimer disease as postsynaptic neurons lose cholinergic input 
from the basal forebrain. On the other hand, the activity of M1 muscarinic 
orthosteric agonists is independent of the functional or anatomic integrity of 
presynaptic cholinergic terminals, and likely retain efficacy as the disease 
progresses, even after presynaptic degeneration of cholinergic fibers. Based on 
the acceptance criteria for a preferred M1 muscarinic agonist for the treatment 
of AD, aiming for efficacy, specificity, and safety in clinical use, few M1 
muscarinic agonists fulfill these requirements, such as orthosteric M1 
agonists-cevimeline (aka AF102B), the first FDA-approved M1 agonist, and NSC001 
(aka AF267B). The pros and cons of various muscarinic agonists developed are 
critically discussed in comparison to these drugs. The review proposes new 
alternatives to cholinergic therapy, particularly selective M1 muscarinic drugs, 
that should be designed to amplify its clinical effect and supplement the 
disease-modifying effect of new treatments to slow down or arrest disease 
progression.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text 
and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00016-0
PMID: 40340060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests Recent patents protect 
NSC001 (aka AF267B). NSC001 development supported by Neurimmune, Switzerland & 
NSC Therapeutics, Austria.


4. Handb Clin Neurol. 2025;211:155-159. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00015-9.

Cholinergic therapy in Alzheimer disease.

Gauthier S(1), Therriault J(2), Rosa-Neto P(3).

Author information:
(1)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill University Research Center for 
Studies in Aging, Montreal, QC, Canada; Departments of Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Psychiatry, Pharmacology & Therapeutics, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: serge.gauthier@mcgill.ca.
(2)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill University Research Center for 
Studies in Aging, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill University Research Center for 
Studies in Aging, Montreal, QC, Canada; Departments of Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Psychiatry, Pharmacology & Therapeutics, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC, Canada; Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital, Douglas Research 
Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada.

This chapter describes how the clinical efficacy of orally administered 
cholinesterase inhibitors has been demonstrated through placebo-controlled 
randomized clinical trials leading to regulatory approval worldwide for the 
symptomatic treatment of Alzheimer disease. Over time, other clinical 
indications have been found, such as Dementia with Lewy Bodies and Parkinson 
disease Dementia. The route of administration includes transdermal patches. Side 
effects predominantly arise from peripheral parasympathetic stimulation. There 
is hope that drugs acting on acetylcholine release or on muscarinic receptors 
can exert additional symptomatic benefits.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text 
and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00015-9
PMID: 40340059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Handb Clin Neurol. 2025;211:137-153. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00014-7.

Memory network and cognitive reserve are associated with preserved and 
stimulated cholinergic neurotransmission.

Boccalini C(1), Perani D(2), Garibotto V(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy; 
Division of Neuroscience, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy; 
Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers (NIMTlab), Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Faculty of Psychology, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy; 
Division of Neuroscience, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(3)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers (NIMTlab), 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland; Division of 
Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, 
Switzerland; CIBM Center for Biomedical Imaging, Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic 
address: valentina.garibotto@hcuge.ch.

The cholinergic system plays a central role in cognition and neural function, 
and, in Alzheimer disease (AD) and Lewy body disease (LBD), it has profound 
implications for cognitive impairment and dementia. The cholinergic forebrain 
pathway, innervating the neocortex and limbic system, is crucial for learning, 
memory, and other essential aspects of cognition and plays a wider role in 
promoting neuronal plasticity. Given the neuroplasticity processes 
characterizing the cholinergic regions, this system may be sensitive to 
modulatory phenomena such as cognitive reserve (CR). The concept of CR has been 
introduced to account for the fact that individual clinical presentation might 
be milder than expected based on neuropathology. This mismatch can be explained 
by individual brain reserve (BR) buildup on life experiences, lifestyles, and 
neurobiologic factors that are associated with resilience. Sparse findings exist 
suggesting that the CR might result in an increased or preserved function of the 
cholinergic system in AD patients, and compensatory mechanisms in the early 
stages of LBD. The limited availability of effective treatment for 
neurodegenerative dementia emphasizes the importance of CR and BR, as they play 
a major role in delaying or slowing disease onset and progression. This chapter 
will describe the involvement of the cholinergic system in neurodegenerative 
diseases and the tools for the in vivo assessment, focusing specifically on the 
evidence suggesting the possibility of its modulation by CR.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text 
and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00014-7
PMID: 40340058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Handb Clin Neurol. 2025;211:123-135. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00007-X.

NGF-based cholinergic therapies in Alzheimer disease.

Mitra S(1), Gera R(1), Eriksdotter M(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; Theme Inflammation and 
Aging, Medical Unit Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge, Sweden. 
Electronic address: maria.eriksdotter@ki.se.

The cholinergic system is part of the parasympathetic nervous system, which 
works in tandem with the sympathetic and enteric nervous systems to maintain the 
physiologic functioning of our body. The neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) 
facilitates cholinergic signaling pathways by activating specific cell surface 
receptors (nicotinic and muscarinic receptors). Altered cholinergic signaling 
has been implicated in several pathologic conditions. In this chapter, 
conditions where cholinergic modulation in the central nervous system occurs 
through the neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF) are addressed. NGF is the 
master regulator of several pathways, ultimately leading to cell survival, ACh 
production, regenerative signaling, and anti-inflammatory tone. NGF and 
cholinergic-related pathways have been reported to be severely affected in the 
case of Alzheimer disease (AD), the most common dementia disorder. In AD, the 
cholinergic nuclei of the basal forebrain are affected early during the AD 
continuum, resulting in cholinergic cell loss and hampered ACh production, which 
overall affects the propagation of cholinergic signals in other brain regions. 
Since the 1990s clinically relevant strategies to treat AD patients have been 
the drugs that enhance cholinergic signaling-termed cholinesterase inhibitors 
(ChEIs), however, other strategies in AD have been and are presently being 
assessed for clinical efficacy. Delivery of NGF to the basal forebrain is 
considered crucial to revive the cholinergic cell bodies, restore ACh 
production, and sustain cognitive function. This chapter provides a description 
of the relevance of NGF-based therapies targeted for AD treatment, technical 
approaches for NGF delivery to the brain, and the status of ongoing clinical 
studies are provided.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text 
and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-443-19088-9.00007-X
PMID: 40340057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Mol Cell Neurosci. 2025 Jun;133:104010. doi: 10.1016/j.mcn.2025.104010. Epub 
2025 May 6.

RNA-based therapies for neurodegenerative disease: Targeting molecular 
mechanisms for disease modification.

Bhati V(1), Prasad S(1), Kabra A(2).

Author information:
(1)University Institute of Pharma Sciences, Chandigarh University, 
Mohali-140413, Punjab, India.
(2)University Institute of Pharma Sciences, Chandigarh University, 
Mohali-140413, Punjab, India. Electronic address: atul.e9963@cumail.in.

Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease 
(PD), and Huntington's disease (HD) are characterized by progressive neuronal 
damage, protein aggregation, and chronic inflammation, leading to cognitive and 
motor impairments. Despite symptomatic relief from current therapies, 
disease-modifying treatments targeting the core molecular mechanism are still 
lacking. RNA-based therapies offer a promising approach to treating 
neurodegenerative disease by targeting molecular mechanisms such as gene 
expression, protein synthesis, and neuroinflammation. Therapeutic strategies 
include Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), Antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs), RNA 
interference (RNAi), small interfering RNA (siRNA) and short hairpin RNA 
(shRNA), messenger RNA (mRNA) therapies, and microRNA (miRNA)-based 
interventions. These therapies aim to decrease toxic protein accumulation, 
restore deficient proteins, and modulate inflammatory responses in conditions 
like AD, PD, and HD. Unlike conventional treatments that primarily manage 
symptoms, RNA-based therapies have the potential to modify disease progression 
by addressing its root causes. This review aims to provide a comprehensive 
overview of current RNA-based therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative 
diseases, discussing their mechanism of action, preclinical and clinical 
advancement. It further explores innovative solutions, including 
nanocarrier-mediated delivery, chemical modifications to enhance RNA stability, 
and personalized medicine approaches guided by genetic profiling that are being 
developed to overcome these barriers. This review also underscores the 
therapeutic opportunities and current limitations of RNA-based interventions, 
highlighting their potential to transform the future of neurodegenerative 
disease management.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcn.2025.104010
PMID: 40340000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The author's 
report has no conflict of interest.


8. Neurochem Int. 2025 Jul;187:105991. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2025.105991. Epub
2025  May 6.

Sulforaphane prevents cognitive decline and mitochondrial failure induced by 
hippocampal expression of caspase-3 cleaved tau.

Villavicencio-Tejo F(1), Olesen MA(1), Ampuero E(2), Quintanilla RA(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Instituto de Ciencias Biomédicas, 
Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Autónoma de Chile, Santiago, 
Chile.
(2)Laboratorio de Neurofarmacología del Comportamiento, Universidad de Santiago 
de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Instituto de Ciencias Biomédicas, 
Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Autónoma de Chile, Santiago, 
Chile. Electronic address: rodrigo.quintanilla@uautonoma.cl.

Caspase-3 cleaved tau (truncated tau) is a pathological modification in tau 
protein that contributes to neurofibrillary tangle formation (NFTs) and 
neurodegeneration in AD. Our previous studies indicate that truncated tau 
affects mitochondrial health, synaptic plasticity, and cognitive performance. 
Therefore, we studied the effects of sulforaphane (SFN), a natural compound 
activator of the NRF2 antioxidant pathway present in vegetables and sprouts, on 
neurodegeneration and cognitive decline induced by truncated tau expression in 
vivo. We induced a 2-month hippocampal expression of GFP, full-length 
(AAV-Syn-GFP-T4) and truncated tau (AAV-Syn-GFP-T4C3) using a stereotaxic 
injection of adeno-associated-virus-9 (AAV9) linked to GFP and a synapsin 
neuronal promoter in tau (-/-) mice. Hippocampal tau-expressing mice were 
treated with SFN, and their cognitive performance (NOR, NOL, and Barnes maze 
tests) and hippocampal mitochondrial function were analyzed. Interestingly, 
hippocampal truncated tau expression significantly affected cognitive and memory 
abilities, accompanied by increased ROS and severe mitochondrial dysfunction 
(depolarization, ATP loss, dynamics de-regulation). Notably, the treatment with 
SFN (50 mg/kg/day, i.p., two weeks) prevented cognitive impairment and reduced 
mitochondrial bioenergetics and dynamics defects induced by hippocampal 
truncated tau expression. These findings suggest a potential role of SFN in 
ameliorating cognitive loss and mitochondrial impairment promoted by tau 
pathology in neurological disorders (NDs).

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2025.105991
PMID: 40339911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing interest All authors 
declare that they do not have any competing interests concerning this work and 
do not intend to pursue any such interests in the future.


9. J Nutr. 2025 Aug;155(8):2711-2716. doi: 10.1016/j.tjnut.2025.04.035. Epub 2025
 May 6.

Warfarin Treatment is Associated With Lower Postmortem Brain Vitamin K 
Concentrations in Older Adults.

Shea MK(1), Israel EA(2), Fu X(2), James BD(3), Agarwal P(3), Schneider JA(4), 
Booth SL(2).

Author information:
(1)USDA Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging, Tufts University, Boston, MA, 
United States. Electronic address: kyla.shea@tufts.edu.
(2)USDA Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging, Tufts University, Boston, MA, 
United States.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, United States.
(4)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, United States.

BACKGROUND: Menaquinone 4 (MK-4) is the primary form of vitamin K found in the 
brain. In rodent studies, treatment with the vitamin K-antagonist warfarin 
lowered brain MK-4 concentrations.
OBJECTIVES: It is not known whether brain MK-4 levels are influenced by warfarin 
treatment in humans. To address this, we compared postmortem brain MK-4 
concentrations in older adults treated with warfarin prior to death to older 
adults not treated with warfarin. We also determined the likelihood of having 
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia in warfarin users, compared to 
nonusers.
METHODS: We used data from 381 autopsied participants, 76% female, mean (SD) age 
at death 92(6) y, in the Rush Memory and Aging Project (MAP) in whom MK-4 was 
measured in 4 brain regions: the mid-frontal and temporal cortices, anterior 
watershed (AWS), and cerebellum. Brain MK-4 concentrations were compared between 
those treated with warfarin and those not treated, using linear regression 
adjusted for age, sex, and cognitive diagnosis at death. The association of 
warfarin use prior to death with cognitive diagnosis at death was evaluated 
using logistic regression, adjusted for age, sex, education, and apolipoprotein 
E4 status.
RESULTS: Warfarin users [n = 73, median (IQR) duration of warfarin use = 585 
(479-656) d] had 68%-79% lower brain MK-4 concentrations in all measured 
regions, and the mean across all regions, compared with nonwarfarin users 
(unstandardized β -1.538 to -1.140; all P < 0.001, fully adjusted). The 
likelihood of having MCI or dementia, compared with no cognitive impairment, at 
death did not significantly differ between those treated with warfarin prior to 
death and those not [OR (95% confidence interval) for MCI: 0.82 (0.41, 1.62), 
dementia: 1.04 (0.57, 1.93), fully adjusted].
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that warfarin treatment influences MK-4 
concentrations in the human brain. Future studies are needed to elucidate the 
mechanisms underlying this effect and its clinical implications.

Copyright © 2025 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjnut.2025.04.035
PMCID: PMC12405923
PMID: 40339909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The other authors report 
no conflicts of interest.


10. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Jun;311(Pt 3):143987. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143987. Epub 2025 May 7.

Structural characterisation of a homogeneous polysaccharide from Gastrodia elata 
Bl. and its effects on two models of Alzheimer's disease.

Zhu C(1), Ma S(1), Zhang S(1), Ma F(1), Li B(1), Wang S(1), Sun Z(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing 102488, China.
(2)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing 102488, China. Electronic address: szrbucm67@163.com.

In this study, Gastrodia elata polysaccharide (GEP) was successfully purified 
from Gastrodiae Rhizoma, and its structural properties and bioactivities were 
investigated. GEP, which had a molecular weight of 110.09 kDa, was a homogeneous 
polysaccharide comprising glucose units. The specific linkage pattern primarily 
comprised →4)-α-D-Glcp-(1→ and a minor proportion of →3,4)-α-D-Glcp-(1→. The 
branched chain primarily comprised α-D-Glcp-(1→ connected to →3,4)-α-D-Glcp-(1→ 
at the O-4 position. In the CL4176 Caenorhabditis elegans life experiment, the 
median survival was 10 days in the 250 mg/L GEP, representing a 10 % extension 
compared with the control group. In addition, 250 mg/L GEP significantly reduced 
the paralysis rate and increased the movement ability of CL4176. Moreover, 
quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction results indicated that, 
compared with the control group, the expression of β-amyloid (Aβ) mRNA was 
significantly decreased by 39.75 % in CL4176 treated with 250 mg/L GEP. The 
potential reason was that GEP increased the expression of sod3, hsp16.1, 
hsp16.2, gst4, gshpx and gcs1 in CL4176 by 30.26 %, 37.72 %, 43.62 %, 37 %, 
47.64 % and 66.71 %, respectively. Furthermore, GEP improved the cognitive 
function of APP/PS1 mice by clearing Aβ and increasing the number of neurons.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143987
PMID: 40339861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


11. Neurobiol Dis. 2025 Jul;211:106944. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106944. Epub 2025
 May 6.

Gene co-expression patterns shared between chemobrain and neurodegenerative 
disease models in rodents.

Zare MS(1), Abedpoor N(2), Hajibabaie F(3), Walker AK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, 30602, USA; 
Iranian Cancer Control Center (MACSA), Isfahan, Iran. Electronic address: 
Zare@uga.edu.
(2)Department of Sports Physiology, Isf.C., Islamic Azad University, Isfahan, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Biology, ShK.C., Islamic Azad University, Shahrekord, Iran.
(4)Discipline of Psychiatry and Mental Health, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.; Laboratory of 
ImmunoPsychiatry, Neuroscience Research Australia, Randwick 2031, NSW, 
Australia.. Electronic address: a.walker@neura.edu.au.

Chemotherapy-related cognitive impairment (CRCI), is a well-recognized 
phenomenon in cancer patients who have undergone chemotherapy but the exact 
molecular mechanisms underpinning CRCI remain elusive. Symptoms reported by 
people with CRCI resemble those experienced by people with age-related 
neurodegenerative disorders (ARNDDs), yet no clear connection between CRCI and 
ARNDDs has been reported to date. The existence of shared mechanisms between 
these conditions offers opportunities for repurposing drugs already approved for 
the treatment of ARNDDs to improve symptoms of CRCI. Given that there is no 
available microarray or RNA-Seq data from the brains of people who have 
experienced CRCI, we investigated to what extent brain gene expression 
perturbations from validated rodent models of CRCI induced by chemotherapy 
compared with validated rodent models of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's 
disease. We utilized multiple bioinformatic analyses, including functional 
enrichment, protein-protein interaction network analyses, gene ontology analyses 
and identification of hub genes to reveal connections between comparable gene 
expression perturbations observed in these conditions. Collectively 165 genes 
overlapped between CRCI and Parkinson's disease and/or Alzheimer's disease, and 
15 overlapped between all three conditions. The joint genes between Alzheimer's 
disease, Parkinson's disease and CRCI demonstrate an average of 83.65% 
nucleotide sequence similarity to human orthologues. Gene ontology and pathway 
enrichment analyses suggest mechanisms involved in neural activity and 
inflammatory response as the key components of the studied neuropathological 
conditions. Accordingly, genes in which expression was comparably affected in 
all three condition models could be attributed to neuroinflammation, cell cycle 
arrest, and changes in physiological neural activity.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106944
PMID: 40339619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


12. Neurobiol Dis. 2025 Jul;211:106939. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106939. Epub 2025
 May 9.

Neuroimmune signaling mediates astrocytic nucleocytoplasmic disruptions and 
stress granule formation associated with TDP-43 pathology.

Zhou C(1), Hardin EJ(2), Zimmer TS(3), Jackvony S(2), Barnett D(2), Khobrekar 
N(4), Giacomelli E(4), Studer L(4), Orr AL(5), Orr AG(6).

Author information:
(1)Weill Cornell/Rockefeller/Sloan Kettering Tri-Institutional MD-PhD Program, 
New York, NY, USA; Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Institute, New York, NY, USA; Feil Family Brain and Mind Research Institute, New 
York, NY, USA.
(2)Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research Institute, New York, NY, 
USA; Feil Family Brain and Mind Research Institute, New York, NY, USA; 
Neuroscience Graduate Program, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research Institute, New York, NY, 
USA; Feil Family Brain and Mind Research Institute, New York, NY, USA.
(4)The Center for Stem Cell Biology, Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer 
Research, New York, NY, USA; Developmental Biology Program, Sloan-Kettering 
Institute for Cancer Research, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Weill Cornell/Rockefeller/Sloan Kettering Tri-Institutional MD-PhD Program, 
New York, NY, USA; Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Institute, New York, NY, USA; Feil Family Brain and Mind Research Institute, New 
York, NY, USA; Neuroscience Graduate Program, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, 
NY, USA.
(6)Weill Cornell/Rockefeller/Sloan Kettering Tri-Institutional MD-PhD Program, 
New York, NY, USA; Helen and Robert Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Institute, New York, NY, USA; Feil Family Brain and Mind Research Institute, New 
York, NY, USA; Neuroscience Graduate Program, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, 
NY, USA. Electronic address: ago2002@med.cornell.edu.

Alterations in transactivating response region DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) 
are prevalent in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), frontotemporal dementia 
(FTD), and other neurological disorders. TDP-43 influences neuronal functions 
and might also affect glial cells. However, specific intracellular effects of 
TDP-43 alterations on glial cells and underlying mechanisms are not clear. We 
report that TDP-43 dysregulation in mouse and human cortical astrocytes causes 
nucleoporin mislocalization, nuclear envelope remodeling, and changes in 
nucleocytoplasmic protein transport. These effects are dependent on 
interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor activity and nuclear factor 
kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling and are 
associated with the formation of cytoplasmic stress granules. Stimulation of 
IL-1 receptors and NF-κB signaling are necessary and sufficient to induce 
astrocytic stress granules and rapid nucleocytoplasmic changes, which are 
broadly alleviated by inhibition of the integrated stress response. These 
findings establish that TDP-43 alterations and neuroimmune factors can induce 
nucleocytoplasmic changes through NF-κB signaling, revealing mechanistic 
convergence of proteinopathy and neuroimmune pathways onto glial 
nucleocytoplasmic disruptions that may occur in diverse neurological conditions.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106939
PMCID: PMC12240875
PMID: 40339618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Anna G. Orr reports financial 
support was provided by National Institutes of Health. Till S. Zimmer reports 
financial support was provided by BrightFocus Foundation. Till S. Zimmer reports 
financial support was provided by Alzheimer's Association. Noopur Khobrekhar 
reports financial support was provided by New York Stem Cell Foundation. Elisa 
Giacomelli reports financial support was provided by Rubicon. Lorenz Studer 
reports financial support was provided by Department of Defense. Constance Zhou 
reports financial support was provided by National Institutes of Health. Daniel 
Barnett reports financial support was provided by National Institutes of Health. 
Stephanie Jackvony reports financial support was provided by National Institutes 
of Health. Lorenz Studer reports a relationship with Dacapo BrainScience that 
includes: board membership and equity or stocks. Lorenz Studer reports a 
relationship with BlueRock Therapeutics that includes: consulting or advisory. 
If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.


13. Bioorg Med Chem. 2025 Aug 15;126:118218. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2025.118218. Epub
 2025 Apr 28.

Synthesis and in vivo biological characterization of six carbon-11 sigma-1 
receptor radiotracers in rodent and nonhuman primate.

Soda AK(1), Huang T(1), Zhou W(1), Chen H(1), Jiang H(1), Jadhav SB(1), Xing 
Z(1), Yu Y(1), Tian L(2), Wong DF(1), Perlmutter JS(3), Ni R(4), Benzinger 
TLS(1), Tu Z(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO 63110, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO 63110, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO 63110, USA; Department of Neurology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA; Department of Neuroscience, Programs in 
Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(4)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland; Institute for Biomedical Engineering, University of Zurich & ETH 
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO 63110, USA. Electronic address: zhudetu@wustl.edu.

Six enantiomers of three racemic sigma-1 receptor (σ1R) ligands were resolved, 
and absolute configuration was determined. Their high σ1R potency and 
selectivity were determined through in vitro binding assays, further validated 
by molecular docking analysis. Central Nervous System Multiparameter 
Optimization algorithm (CNS MPO) predicts efficient brain penetration for these 
enantiomers. Six C-11 radiotracers were radiosynthesized successfully, ex vivo 
biodistribution in rats showed that (-)-[11C]7 had high brain uptake of 
∼4.8-fold for 5 min versus 60 min. Mouse brain PET imaging studies showed 
(-)-[11C]7 and (-)-[11C]16 have in vivo binding specificity for σ1R. Macaque PET 
scans showed high brain uptake for all six radiotracers, with (-)-[11C]7 peaked 
at ∼45 min (SUV 2.5), possessing the best washout kinetics and highest 
cerebellum-to-white matter ratio (∼3.1), in agreement with in vitro or ex vivo 
measures of σ1R expression. Radiometabolite analysis showed that no newly formed 
radiometabolite was observed post-injection of (-)-[11C]7. Our data suggest that 
further evaluation is warranted to determine that (-)-[11C]7 is a suitable PET 
radiotracer for imaging σ1R in the brain of animal and human.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2025.118218
PMCID: PMC12224275
PMID: 40339216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


14. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70022. doi: 10.1002/alz.70022.

Antisense oligonucleotides directed against App and Rab5 normalized endosomal 
Rab activity and reversed DS-AD-linked degenerative phenotypes in the Dp16 mouse 
model of Down syndrome.

Chen XQ(1), Zuo X(1), Becker A(1), Mante M(1), Florio JB(1), Jadhav SG(2), Albay 
R(1), Johnstone A(1), Karachentsev D(1), Rissman R(1), Zhao H(3), Dowdy SF(2), 
Mobley WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, 
California, USA.
(2)Department of Cellular & Molecular Medicine, University of California San 
Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.
(3)Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc., Carlsbad, California, USA.

Comment in
    10.1002/alz.70046.

INTRODUCTION: Down syndrome (DS) markedly raises the risk of Alzheimer's disease 
(DS-AD). Our findings identified widespread dysregulation of the endolysosomal 
network (ELN) in DS and DS-AD brains, driven by increased APP gene dose, 
hyperactivation of RAB5, and elevated levels of guanine nucleotide exchange 
factors (GEFs) for RABs 7 and 11.
METHODS: We investigated whether increasing APP gene dose and RAB5 
hyperactivation contributed to neuropathogenesis and whether a clinically 
feasible intervention could reverse ELN changes. The Dp16 DS-AD mouse model was 
treated with a mouse App-specific antisense oligonucleotide (App-ASO) and 
Rab5-specific ASOs targeting Rab5a and Rab5b.
RESULTS: App-ASO treatment normalized full-length APP (fl-APP) and its products, 
RAB5 activity, and downstream RABs 7 and 11 pathways. Rab5-ASOs reduced RAB5 
levels and restored endosomal Rab activity. Both ASO treatments mitigated 
DS-AD-linked pathologies.
DISCUSSION: These findings highlight ELN dysregulation in DS and the therapeutic 
potential of ASO-based strategies targeting APP or Rab5 to counteract DS-AD 
features.
HIGHLIGHTS: App-ASO treatment reduced the levels of APP and its products and 
normalized endosomal Rab activity and GEF levels in Dp16 mice. Administration of 
Rab5-ASOs reduced RAB5 levels and normalized endosomal Rab activity and GEF 
levels in Dp16 mice. Both ASO treatments were well tolerated and mitigated 
APP-linked pathologies including tau hyperphosphorylation, neurotrophin 
signaling deficits, and synaptic protein loss. App-ASO or Rab5-ASOs reversed 
established pathological phenotypes in Dp16 mice.

© 2025 Ionis Pharmaceutical and The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published 
by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70022
PMCID: PMC12058459
PMID: 40339155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: W.C.M. serves as a Scientific Advisory Board 
(SAB) member and holds stock options from Alzheon, Inc. and Promis, Inc. W.C.M. 
also serves as an SAB member and holds stock in Acta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. His 
name is on a patent under University of California San Diego and Massachusetts 
General Hospital concerning γ‐secretase modulators licensed to Acta 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. He has served as a consultant to AC Immune. W.C.M. holds a 
leadership position in the Trisomy 21 Research Society. He serves on committees 
for the Alzheimer's Project San Diego and the American Neurological Association 
and an NIH COBRE Grant to the University of Nebraska. W.C.M. received a royalty 
payment under a patent held by Stanford University licensed to Curasen. A W.C.M. 
laboratory member serves as PI for a grant from BioSplice, Inc. W.C.M. received 
the App‐ASO used for these studies from Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc. H.Z. is an 
employee of Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc. Author disclosures are available in the 
Supporting Information.


15. PLoS One. 2025 May 8;20(5):e0318916. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0318916. 
eCollection 2025.

Cognitive decline in older adults with type 2 diabetes: Unraveling site-specific 
glycoproteomic alterations.

Levin Y(1), Tickotsky N(2), Morgenstern D(1), Wolf-Levy H(1), Markus B(3), 
Cooper I(2)(4)(5), Reiner-Benaim A(6), Uribarri J(7), Unger R(8), Buchman AS(9), 
Beeri MS(2)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)The de Botton Institute for Protein Profiling, Nancy and Stephen Grand Israel 
National Center for Personalized Medicine, Weizmann Institute of Science, 
Rehovot, Israel.
(2)The Joseph Sagol Neuroscience Center, Sheba Medical Center, Ramat Gan, 
Israel.
(3)The Mantoux Bioinformatics Institute of the Nancy and Stephen Grand Israel 
National Center for Personalized Medicine, Weizmann Institute of Science, 
Rehovot, Israel.
(4)School of Psychology, Reichman University, Herzliya, Israel.
(5)School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Community Health Sciences, 
School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben Gurion University of 
the Negev, Be'er-Sheva, Israel.
(7)Department of Medicine, The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, New York, United States of America.
(8)The Goodman faculty of life sciences, Bar Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel.
(9)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois, United States of America.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, New York, United States of America.
(11)The Herbert and Jackeline Krieger Klein Alzheimer's Research Center, Brain 
Health Institute, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, United States 
of America.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is consistently related to an increased risk of cognitive 
decline and dementia. However, the molecular underpinnings of this association 
remain poorly understood. In this study, we applied a novel mass 
spectrometry-based glycoproteomic methodology to profile serum glycoproteins in 
older adults with T2D, aiming to identify glycopeptiforms associated with 
cognitive impairment. Our method allowed comprehensive profiling of N 
glycosylation in addition to the unique ability to profile glycation events on 
specific amino acid sites. Serum samples from initially cognitively normal older 
adults with T2D were collected, with participants classified as cognitive 
decliners (who developed impairment) and non-decliners (who maintained normal 
cognition over time). We identified significant differences in the abundance of 
glycopeptiforms between these groups, noting that certain glycopeptiforms 
exhibited unique changes over time in decliners. We identified 13 
glycopeptiforms that exhibited significant differences between the groups both 
at baseline and in their rates of change over time. Pathway analysis indicated 
that glycation events were linked to metabolic pathways while glycosylation to 
immune-related pathways, aligning with established links between these processes 
and cognitive decline. This study offers new insights into glycoproteoform 
alterations in older adults with T2D experiencing cognitive decline. It 
highlights the potential of specific glycopeptiforms as biomarkers for early 
cognitive impairment in T2D. Further validation in larger cohorts will enhance 
our understanding of glycosylation and glycation in T2D and potentially lead to 
the discovery of novel treatment targets for T2D-related cognitive decline. Raw 
data and search are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD050780.

Copyright: © 2025 Levin et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0318916
PMCID: PMC12061096
PMID: 40338932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: NO authors have competing interests.


16. PLoS One. 2025 May 8;20(5):e0324094. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0324094. 
eCollection 2025.

Retraction: Structure-based virtual screening of Trachyspermum ammi metabolites 
targeting acetylcholinesterase for Alzheimer's disease treatment.

PLOS One Editors.

Retraction of
    PLoS One. 2024 Dec 17;19(12):e0311401. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0311401.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0324094
PMCID: PMC12061171
PMID: 40338826


17. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Sep;62(9):11920-11934. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05037-7.
Epub  2025 May 8.

A novel Dual GLP-1/CCK Receptor Agonist Improves Cognitive Performance and 
Synaptogenesis in the 5 × FAD Alzheimer Mouse Model.

Ma H(1), Chang Z(1), Sun H(1), Ma D(1), Li Z(1)(2), Hao L(1)(2), Zhang Z(1)(2), 
Hölscher C(3), Zhang Z(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Medical Sciences, Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Shangzhen 
Academy, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450046, Henan 
Province, China.
(2)Collaborative Innovation Center of Research and Development on the Whole 
Industry Chain of Yu-Yao, Zhengzhou, 450046, Henan Province, China.
(3)Henan Academy of Innovations in Medical Science, Brain Institute, Zhengzhou, 
451100, Henan Province, China. c.holscher@hactcm.edu.cn.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Shangzhen 
Academy, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450046, Henan 
Province, China. zhangzijuan2009@hactcm.edu.cn.
(5)Collaborative Innovation Center of Research and Development on the Whole 
Industry Chain of Yu-Yao, Zhengzhou, 450046, Henan Province, China. 
zhangzijuan2009@hactcm.edu.cn.

Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) is a peptide hormone and growth factor. 
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is another peptide hormone, growth factor and 
neurotransmitter. Both peptide hormones have shown good neuroprotective effects 
in animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we tested the 
effects of a dual GLP-1/CCK (25 nmol/kg ip. for 14 days) receptor agonist that 
had previously shown good effects in animal models of diabetes. The GLP-1 
analogue Liraglutide (50 nmol/kg ip.) was used as a positive control. Memory was 
improved in the water maze and the Y-maze, spontaneous activity was increased, 
the chronic inflammation response had been reduced and levels of NLRP3, IL-10 
and TNFα were brought back to physiological levels. Levels of amyloid aggregates 
in the brain were reduced by the drugs. The expression of proteins SIRPα and 
CD47 which is related to reduced inflammation levels was reduced. Importantly, 
growth factor signalling was much improved and growth levels of BDNF, TrkB 
receptor, p-CREB, and an upregulation of the PI3K-AKT signalling pathway had 
been observed. Post-synaptic density protein (PSD) and synaptophysin levels were 
reduced, too. In transmission electron microscope analysis, the synaptic cleft 
was found to be wider in 5xFAD mice. In Golgi stain evaluations, synapse numbers 
were brought back to normal levels by the drugs. In a direct comparison with 
Liraglutide, the dual GLP-1/CCK receptor agonist was superior in the water maze 
tests and in the upregulation of BDNF and TrkB levels in the brain. In other 
parameters, the dual agonist and Liraglutide showed comparable effects. In 
conclusion, the combination of GLP-1 and CCK receptor activation did not show 
overall improvements over single GLP-1 receptor activation.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05037-7
PMID: 40338455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. All animals were treated according 
to the guidelines for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals and the 
experimental procedures were approved by the Animal Care and Use Committee of 
Henan University of Chinese Medicine (approval no. IACUC-202304018). Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Conflicts 
of interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


18. Protein Pept Lett. 2025;32(5):313-326. doi: 
10.2174/0109298665368109250419175111.

Unraveling the Role of Functional Amyloids and Amyloid Peptides in Disease 
Detection.

Kumar P(1), Sarkar N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Medical Engineering, National Institute of 
Technology Rourkela, Rourkela, 769008, Odisha, India.

Amyloid refers to a specific quaternary structure characterized by fibrillar 
arrangements of proteins or peptides forming cross β-sheet architectures. 
Initially associated with diseases like Alzheimer's, amyloid was seen 
predominantly as pathological. However, recent research has revealed that 
amyloid also plays functional roles across various biological systems, from 
bacteria to mammals. The cross β-sheet structure of amyloid enables the 
transformation of soluble proteins into insoluble fibrils, providing high 
stability and a robust prion-like copying mechanism. However, recent research 
has revealed that amyloid also plays functional roles in various biological 
systems, such as biofilm formation in bacteria, aiding melanin biosynthesis in 
humans, and supporting the formation of fungal hyphae. Understanding the dual 
nature of amyloid-a pathological and functional entity-offers insights into 
disease mechanisms and therapeutic strategies. Recognizing the distinction 
between pathological and functional amyloids is crucial for advancing 
diagnostics and treatments. This review highlights the importance of functional 
amyloids (FAs), particularly in disease detection, underscoring their 
significant biological roles and potential applications.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0109298665368109250419175111
PMID: 40337976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 May 6;11(2):e70076. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70076. 
eCollection 2025 Apr-Jun.

Safety considerations of semaglutide in the potential treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease: A pooled analysis of semaglutide in adults aged ≥ 65 years.

Sabbagh M(1), Boschini C(2), Cohen S(3), Fugger M(2), Jessen F(4), Dandanell 
S(2), Pedersen SD(5), Tarazona LRS(2), Aroda VR(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology Barrow Neurological Institute Phoenix Arizona USA.
(2)Novo Nordisk A/S Bagsværd Denmark.
(3)Toronto Memory Program Toronto Ontario Canada.
(4)Department of Psychiatry University Hospital of Cologne Cologne Germany.
(5)C-endo Diabetes and Endocrinology Clinic Calgary Canada.
(6)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School Boston Massachusetts 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: The evoke/evoke+ trials are investigating semaglutide in a 
population with early Alzheimer's disease (AD). Specific analyses of semaglutide 
safety data in older adults are limited; therefore, in the current analysis, we 
aimed to evaluate safety considerations with semaglutide in adults ≥ 65 years.
METHODS: Adverse event (AE) data from three semaglutide phase 3a programs in 
participants ≥ 65 years with type 2 diabetes and/or overweight/obesity were 
pooled. Change in body weight was also assessed in a smaller subset of 
participants ≥ 65 years.
RESULTS: The analysis included 3529 participants ≥ 65 years. Baseline mean age 
and body mass index in participants ≥ 65 years were 69.3 to 70.2 years and 29.7 
to 35.4 kg/m2, respectively, compared to 47.8 to 58.5 years and 31.3 to 
36.7 kg/m2 in the overall population. AEs with semaglutide occurred in 73.6% to 
92.4% of participants ≥ 65 years versus 73.2% to 90.8% of the overall 
population. AEs with semaglutide leading to permanent discontinuation appeared 
to be more frequent in participants ≥ 65 years (9.3%-12.4%) versus the overall 
population (5.7%-8.7%). Gastrointestinal disorders were the most frequently 
reported AEs with semaglutide in participants ≥ 65 years (44.6%-73.8%) and in 
the overall population (39.1%-73.4%). Participants aged ≥ 65 years receiving 
semaglutide had an estimated weight loss of 3.8% at week 52 compared to 0.1% 
with placebo.
DISCUSSION: Age ≥ 65 years did not appear to affect the safety considerations of 
semaglutide. The ongoing evoke/evoke+ trials will elucidate the balance of 
efficacy and safety in the treatment of early AD with semaglutide.
HIGHLIGHTS: This was a post hoc analysis evaluating adverse event (AE) data of 
semaglutide in people ≥ 65 years.The most common AE with semaglutide was 
gastrointestinal (GI).GI event rates were similar in people ≥ 65 years and the 
overall study populations.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70076
PMCID: PMC12056300
PMID: 40337158

Conflict of interest statement: Marwan Sabbagh reports consulting for Corium, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, KeifeRx, NeuroTherapia, Novo Nordisk, Prothena, 
Roche–Genentech, Signant Health, Synaptogenix, and T3D. Cristina Boschini, 
Magnus Fugger, Sune Dandanell, and Luis Rafael Solís Tarazona are employees 
and/or shareholders of Novo Nordisk A/S. Sharon Cohen is an employee of the 
Toronto Memory Program and has no financial conflicts of interest. Frank Jessen 
reports fees for advice and presentations for AC Immune, Biogen, 
Danone/Nutricia, Eisai, Grifols, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Novo Nordisk, and Roche; 
funding from BMBF, BZGA, DFG, DZNE, Era‐net Neuron, Horizon 2020, IMI, 
Innovationsfonds (GBA), and JPND; memberships for the German Association of 
Psychiatry (DGPPN, member of the board), German Association of Biological 
Psychiatry (DGBP), German Psychogeriatric Association (DGGPP), German Memory 
Clinic Network (DNG, Chair), and European Alzheimer‘s Disease Consortium (EADC, 
Chair); and served on the scientific advisory boards for German Alzheimer 
Association, Alzheimer Europe, and Hirnliga. Sue D. Pedersen reports consulting 
fees or speaking honoraria from Abbott, AstraZeneca, Bausch, Bayer, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Dexcom, Eli Lilly, HLS, Janssen, Merck, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, and 
Sanofi; and research studies for AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, 
Medpace, and Novo Nordisk. Vanita R. Aroda reports grants and other from Applied 
Therapeutics, grants and other from Corcept, grants and other from Fractyl, 
other from Mediflix, grants and other from Novo Nordisk, other from Pfizer, 
grants and other from Sanofi, grants from Eli Lilly, and other from Janssen 
(spouse) outside the submitted work. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


20. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Apr 23;17:1566621. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1566621.  eCollection 2025.

The synergistic extract of Zophobas atratus and Tenebrio molitor regulates 
neuroplasticity and oxidative stress in a scopolamine-induced cognitive 
impairment model.

Tran NB(1), Lee H(1), Ji MG(1), Ngo Hoang L(1), Lee SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioactive Material Sciences and Research Center of Bioactive 
Materials, Jeonbuk National University, Jeonju, Jeonbuk-do, Republic of Korea.

INTRODUCTION: Neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, arise 
from neuroinflammation, which leads to cognitive and memory impairment. 
Scopolamine is commonly used to induce cognitive and memory deficits in mouse 
models.
AIMS: This study investigated the neuroprotective potential of a Zophobas 
atratus (Za) and Tenebrio molitor (Tm) extract mixture (ZaTm mixture) in 
mitigating scopolamine-induced cognitive and memory deficits in mice.
RESULTS: Behavioral assessments, including the Morris water maze, Y-maze, and 
light/dark tests, demonstrated that the ZaTm mixture significantly enhanced 
memory and cognitive function in treated mice. Furthermore, the ZaTm mixture 
restored the disrupted expression of choline acetyltransferase and 
acetylcholinesterase in the hippocampi of scopolamine-treated mice. 
Additionally, scopolamine-induced glutamatergic/GABAergic dysfunction was 
markedly improved following treatment with the ZaTm mixture. The extract also 
exhibited neuroprotective effects by enhancing the activity of antioxidants, 
such as glutathione and malondialdehyde, and key enzymes, including catalase and 
superoxide dismutase. Moreover, it effectively inhibited senescence in the 
hippocampus by modulating the AMPK/SIRT and BDNF-Akt/mTOR signaling pathways.
DISCUSSION: This study highlights the promising potential of the ZaTm extract 
mixture as a novel therapeutic agent and functional food for the prevention and 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Tran, Lee, Ji, Ngo Hoang and Lee.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1566621
PMCID: PMC12055851
PMID: 40336947

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


21. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Apr 22;17:1536573. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1536573.  eCollection 2025.

Comparative efficacy of rTMS on different targets in Alzheimer's disease: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Zhang Y(#)(1)(2), Dong K(#)(1)(2), Yang J(1)(2), Guo Q(1)(2), Zhao Y(1)(2), Zhu 
X(1)(2), Liu D(1)(2), Liu P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Clinical Research Center for Rehabilitation Medicine, 
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is emerging as a 
promising non-invasive intervention for Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet 
therapeutic outcomes remain inconsistent across studies. This meta-analysis 
aimed to evaluate the cognitive benefits of rTMS in AD patients, with a specific 
focus on stimulation targets and protocols variations.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted in PubMed, Web of Science, 
Embase, and Cochrane Library for relevant English-language studies published up 
to 31 May 2024. Cognitive outcomes were assessed using the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE) and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Section 
(ADAS-Cog). Data were pooled using a random-effects model, with standardized 
mean difference (SMD) or mean differences (MD) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) 
calculated. Subgroup analyses were performed to examine the effects of 
stimulation targets, protocol variations and population demographics on rTMS 
efficacy.
RESULTS: Twenty-two studies involving 874 participants were included in this 
meta-analysis. Overall, rTMS significantly improved cognitive function (SMD = 
0.27; 95% CI = 0.14-0.41; p < 0.0001), showing that the efficacy of rTMS varied 
by stimulation target and protocol. Stimulation of the dorsolateral prefrontal 
cortex (DLPFC) led to significant cognitive improvement (SMD = 0.49, 95% CI = 
-0.26 to 0.73; p < 0.0001), whereas bilateral DLPFC stimulation showed no 
significant improvement (SMD = 0.13; 95% CI = -0.40 to 0.66; p = 0.62). 
Stimulating the parietal lobe or associated regions produced moderate cognitive 
benefits (SMD = 0.29; 95% CI = 0.03-0.55; p = 0.03). Notably, multi-target 
stimulation over the bilateral DLPFC, parietal lobes, Wernicke's area, and 
Broca's area also showed substantial cognitive improvement (MD = 2.85; 95% CI = 
1.69-4.00; p < 0.00001). Additionally, subgroup analysis based on geographical 
background revealed greater effects in studies conducted in Asia (SMD = 0.40, 
95% CI = 0.14-0.65; p < 0.003).
CONCLUSION: rTMS is an effective intervention for cognitive enhancement in AD, 
with its efficacy significantly influenced by stimulation target and protocol. 
Notably, the greater cognitive benefits observed in Asian populations suggest a 
potential role of genetic and demographic factors that warrant further 
investigation. These findings contribute to the development of optimized, 
personalized rTMS protocols for AD treatment.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: 
https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/recorddashboard, CRD42023434084.

Copyright © 2025 Zhang, Dong, Yang, Guo, Zhao, Zhu, Liu and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1536573
PMCID: PMC12056745
PMID: 40336945

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


22. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2025 Apr;114(4):127-136. doi:
10.23785/PRAXIS.2025.04.002.

[The Swiss Memory Clinics recommendations for the diagnosis of dementia - an 
update].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Popp J(1)(2)(3), Meyer-Heim T(1)(4), Bürge M(1)(4), Ehrensperger MM(1)(5), 
Felbecker A(1)(6), Pihan H(1)(6)(7), Barro-Belaygues N(1)(4)(7), Chicherio C(1), 
Draganski B(1)(6), Bieri G(1)(4), Bopp-Kistler I(4)(8), Brioschi A(9), 
Brühlmeier M(10), Brügger K(1)(5), Casutt G(5)(11)(12), Garibotto V(10), Gasser 
P(5), Georgescu D(1)(2), Gietl A(13), Grubauer A(5), Jüngling F(10), Kagerer 
S(13), Kirsch E(14), Kolly V(5), Latour Erlinger G(1)(5)(13), Monsch A(5), Rinke 
L(1)(5), Meyer R(1)(2)(15).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Memory Clinics (SMC).
(2)Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Alterspsychiatrie und -psychotherapie (SGAP).
(3)julius.popp@uzh.ch.
(4)Schweizerische Fachgesellschaft für Geriatrie (SFGG).
(5)Schweizerische Vereinigung für Neuropsychologie (SVNP).
(6)Schweizerische Neurologische Gesellschaft (SNG).
(7)Spitalzentrum Biel.
(8)mediX Gruppenpraxis Zürich.
(9)Centre hospitalier universitaire vaudois.
(10)Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Nuklearmedizin (SGNM).
(11)Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Verkehrspsychologie.
(12)Swiss Insurance Medicine (SIM).
(13)Psychiatrische Universitätsklinik Zürich.
(14)Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Neuroradiologie.
(15)Psychiatrische Dienste Aargau AG.

The early and accurate diagnosis is the basic prerequisite for timely, targeted 
and individually tailored counselling, treatment and support for people 
developing cognitive impairment. The association Swiss Memory Clinics (SMC) has 
elaborated detailed quality standards for the assessment of cognitive disorders, 
published them for the first time in 2018 and updated them in 2024. These 
recommendations present the current diagnostic guidelines and examination 
options, along with proposed standards for the relevant procedures. Single areas 
such as anamnesis, clinical examination, laboratory assessments, 
neuropsychological testing and neuroradiological procedures are discussed as 
part of the standard diagnostics and the complementary investigation methods for 
differential diagnostics. Furthermore, the disclosure of the diagnosis and 
counselling are now described as an integral part of the diagnostic process. The 
most important objectives of the recommendations for the diagnosis of dementia 
disorders remain to enable high-quality early and accurate diagnostics of 
cognitive disorders throughout Switzerland; and to provide a practical guide for 
clinicians in primary care and memory clinics.

Publisher: TITEL: Die Empfehlungen der Swiss Memory Clinics für die Diagnostik 
der Demenzerkrankungen – ein Update.
EINLEITUNG: Die sorgfältige Früh- und Differenzialdiagnostik ist die 
Grundvoraussetzung für eine rechtzeitige, gezielte und individuell angepasste 
Beratung, Behandlung und Begleitung kognitiver Störungen. Der Verein Swiss 
Memory Clinics (SMC) hatte detaillierte Qualitätsstandards für die Abklärung 
kognitiver Störungen entwickelt, erstmalig 2018 veröffentlicht und diese 
2023–2024 aktualisiert. In den vorliegenden Empfehlungen werden die Richtlinien 
der Diagnostik und einzelne Untersuchungsmöglichkeiten vorgestellt sowie 
Standards für die diesbezüglichen Abläufe vorgeschlagen. Einzelne Bereiche wie 
Anamneseerhebung, klinische Untersuchung, Laborparameter, neuropsychologische 
Testung und neuroradiologische Verfahren werden als Teil der Standarddiagnostik 
ausführlich diskutiert und ergänzende Untersuchungsmethoden für 
differenzialdiagnostische Überlegungen dargestellt. Weiter wird neu die 
Übermittlung der Diagnose als integraler Teil des diagnostischen Prozesses 
beschrieben. Die wichtigsten Ziele der SMC-Empfehlungen zur Diagnostik der 
Demenzerkrankungen sind weiterhin, eine qualitativ hochstehende Früh- und 
Differenzialdiagnostik schweizweit zu ermöglichen und einen praktischen 
Wegweiser für die Abklärung in der Grundversorgung und in den Memory Clinics 
anzubieten. Schlüsselwörter: Swiss Memory Clinics, Diagnostik, Empfehlungen, 
Früherkennung, Demenzerkrankungen.

Publisher: TITRE: Recommandations de Swiss Memory Clinics pour le diagnostic des 
troubles cognitifs – mise à jour.
INTRODUCTION: Une détection précoce et un diagnostic différentiel minutieux sont 
les conditions préalables essentielles pour offrir un accompagnement, un 
traitement et des conseils adaptés, ciblés et personnalisés aux troubles 
cognitifs. L’association Swiss Memory Clinics (SMC) avait élaboré des normes de 
qualité détaillées pour l’investigation des troubles cognitifs, qu’elle a 
publiées pour la première fois en 2018, puis actualisées en 2023–2024. Les 
présentes recommandations contiennent des directives sur le diagnostic et les 
différentes possibilités d’examens, et proposent des normes pour les procédures 
à appliquer en la matière. Elles abordent de façon approfondie les divers 
éléments du diagnostic standard, tels que l’anamnèse, l’examen clinique, 
l’analyse de laboratoire, les tests neuropsychologiques et les procédures 
neuroradiologiques, et présentent des examens complémentaires pouvant alimenter 
les réflexions sur le diagnostic différentiel. Elles décrivent également 
l’annonce du diagnostic comme partie intégrante du processus diagnostique. Les 
recommandations de SMC pour le diagnostic des démences ont en outre pour 
principaux objectifs de permettre un diagnostic précoce et différentiel de haute 
qualité dans toute la Suisse, et de constituer un guide pour la pose de ce 
diagnostic par la médecine de premier recours et les cliniques de la mémoire. 
Mots-clés: Swiss Memory Clinics, diagnostic, recommandations, dépistage précoce, 
troubles neurocognitifs.

© 2025 The Author(s) under the license CC BY 4.0 
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0).

DOI: 10.23785/PRAXIS.2025.04.002
PMID: 40336391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Ethn Health. 2025 May;30(4):471-490. doi: 10.1080/13557858.2025.2479456. Epub
 2025 May 7.

Addressing the knowledge and recruitment gap in Alzheimer's disease and 
precision medicine research among Native people: an innovative randomized 
controlled trial.

Hebert LE(1), Kulbacki-Fabisiak C(1), Muller C(1), Boyd A(1), O'Leary M(2), 
Poole E(3), Ramos M(1), Barker D(1), Sinclair K(1), Manson SM(3), Buchwald D(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Research and Education to Advance Community Health (IREACH), 
Washington State University, Spokane, WA, USA.
(2)Missouri Breaks Industries Research, Inc., Eagle Butte, SD, USA.
(3)Centers for American Indian and Alaska Native Health, University of Colorado 
Denver, Denver, CO, USA.
(4)University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) population is 
increasing and AI/AN people are living longer than ever before. Although 
aging-related health issues such as cognitive impairment, dementia, and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) are becoming more visible among this population, 
reliable data on AD prevalence and risk factors among AI/AN people are nearly 
nonexistent. Concurrently, precision medicine (PM) has demonstrated significant 
potential for detecting and treating diseases such as AD. For PM to promote 
health equity for underserved populations, it must not exacerbate existing 
health disparities and bias in research. There is also little information about 
preferences among AI/AN people for communicating information regarding AD, PM, 
or recruitment into clinical trials. Communication barriers and few known 
facilitators contribute to low rates of AI/AN research participation. This study 
seeks to address the gaps in AD and PM research among AI/AN communities and 
promote knowledge of, attitudes towards, and interest and participation in 
AD-related PM research efforts.
METHODS: We designed a three-armed RCT to determine the effect of a culturally 
tailored brochure and video compared to non-tailored recruitment materials. 
Participants were recruited in Rapid City, South Dakota and were required to 
meet the following eligibility criteria: 1) identify as AI/AN; 2) be able to 
speak, read, and understand English; 3) be aged 40 or older; and 4) have the 
cognitive and decisional capacity to consent and sign and date the informed 
consent document.
RESULTS: We enrolled 914 in the RCT and 812 have been randomized to a study 
condition. The mean age is 54 years (standard deviation = 10.3 years); 62% are 
female. Overall, 22% reported a parent, grandparent or sibling have been 
diagnosed with AD, and 22% reported a family member with an other type of 
dementia. One quarter (25%) of participants reported having an undiagnosed 
memory problem themselves, and 22% reported having a family member with 
undiagnosed memory problems. Of randomized participants, 743 (72%) enrolled in 
the research registry.
CONCLUSIONS: This study will inform future recruitment efforts for ADRD-focused 
clinical trials. Enrollment of AI/AN participants in an Alzheimer's 
Disease-Precision Medicine (AD-PM) Registry will provide opportunity for future 
research on this topic in partnership with this population.

DOI: 10.1080/13557858.2025.2479456
PMCID: PMC12126279
PMID: 40336272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(1):271-279. doi: 10.1177/13872877251340084.
Epub  2025 May 7.

Differential effects of antidepressants on cognition in Alzheimer's disease with 
depression: A sub-group analysis of an open-label, observational study.

Cumbo E(1), Migliore D(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurodegenerative Disorders Unit, ASP Caltanissetta, Caltanissetta, Italy.

BackgroundDepressive symptoms are common in Alzheimer's disease (AD), leading to 
an increasing use of antidepressants.ObjectiveTo compare the effects of 
vortioxetine with other conventional antidepressants on cognition in AD patients 
with depressive symptoms.MethodsThis analysis is a subgroup of a 12-month, 
prospective, randomized, open-label, parallel-group study involving 108 
outpatients receiving either vortioxetine or escitalopram, paroxetine, or 
bupropion as part of routine care. Data were collected at baseline, 6 and 12 
months. Cognitive symptoms were assessed using the Mini-Mental State Examination 
(MMSE), Attentive Matrices (AM), Coloured Progressive Matrices (CPR), and Digit 
Span; depressive symptoms using the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D) and the 
Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia (CSDD). Results for patients on 
vortioxetine were compared to those on other antidepressants.ResultsTotal scores 
on cognitive measures improved in all groups. Improvements versus baseline in 
MMSE, AM, and CPM were statistically significant in the vortioxetine group 
(p < 0.001), but not in the other antidepressant groups. Digit Span scores did 
not differ significantly from baseline. The between-group differences in MMSE, 
AM, and CPM changes were statistically significant in favor of vortioxetine 
(p < 0.05), while the Digit Span change showed a trend towards superiority with 
vortioxetine, but did not reach statistical significance. The between-group 
differences in HAM-D and CSDD changes were also statistically significant for 
vortioxetine (p < 0.05).ConclusionsVortioxetine was superior in improving both 
cognitive and depressive symptoms compared to other antidepressants. Larger 
studies which may also help to understand whether the beneficial effect observed 
with vortioxetine was a direct effect or mediated by its specific antidepressant 
efficacy are required.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251340084
PMID: 40336267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Eduardo Cumbo has 
participated in advisory boards and pharmaceutical industry-sponsored symposia 
for Pfizer, GSK, Eli Lilly, UCB Pharma, Neopharmed Gentili, Piam Pharma, 
Lundbeck and Novartis Pharma and has received compensation for speaker related 
activities from UCB Pharma, Pfizer, GSK, Neopharmed Gentili, Lundbeck and 
Novartis Pharma. Daniela Migliore declare no potential conflicts of interest 
with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article. 
Data availability statementThe data supporting the findings of this study are 
available on request from the corresponding author. The data are not publicly 
available due to privacy or ethical restrictions.


25. Med Biol Eng Comput. 2025 Oct;63(10):2943-2953. doi:
10.1007/s11517-025-03366-2.  Epub 2025 May 8.

Using baseline MRI radiomic features to predict the efficacy of repetitive 
transcranial magnetic stimulation in Alzheimer's patients.

Saha C(1), Figley CR(2), Lithgow B(3)(4), Wang X(5), Fitzgerald PB(6), Koski 
L(7), Mansouri B(8), Moussavi Z(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering Program, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada. 
sahac@myumanitoba.ca.
(2)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Engineering Program, University of 
Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.
(3)Biomedical Engineering Program, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.
(4)Riverview Health Center, Winnipeg, Canada.
(5)Warren Center for Actuarial Studies and Research, University of Manitoba, 
Winnipeg, Canada.
(6)School of Medicine and Psychology, Australian National University, Canberra, 
Australia.
(7)Department of Neurology & Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(8)Brain, Vision and Concussion Clinic-iScope, Winnipeg, Canada.

The efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) as a 
treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD) is uncertain at baseline. Herein, we 
aimed to investigate whether radiomic features from the pre-treatment MRI data 
could predict rTMS efficacy for AD treatment. Out of 110 participants with AD in 
the active (n = 75) and sham (n = 35) rTMS treatment groups having T1-weighted 
brain MRI data, we had two groups of responders (active = 55 and sham = 24) and 
non-responders (active = 20 and sham = 11). We extracted histogram-based 
radiomic features from MRI data using 3D Slicer software; the most important 
features were selected utilizing a combination of a two-sample t-test, 
correlation test, least absolute shrinkage, and selection operator. The support 
vector machine classified rTMS responders and non-responders with a 
cross-validated mean accuracy/AUC of 81.9%/90.0% in the active group and 
87.4%/95.8% in the sham group. Further, the radiomic features of the active 
group significantly correlated with participants' AD assessment scale-cognitive 
subscale (ADAS-Cog) change after treatment (false discovery rate corrected 
p < 0.05). Given that baseline radiomic features were able to accurately predict 
AD patients' responses to rTMS treatment, these radiomic features warrant 
further investigation for personalizing AD therapeutic strategies.

© 2025. International Federation for Medical and Biological Engineering.

DOI: 10.1007/s11517-025-03366-2
PMID: 40335871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: In the last 
3 years, the coauthor, P.B.F., has received equipment for research from 
Neurosoft and Nexstim. He has served on a scientific advisory board for Magstim 
and received speaker fees from Otsuka. He has also acted as a founder and board 
member for TMS Clinics Australia and Resonance Therapeutics. P.B.F. is supported 
by a National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia Investigator 
grant (1193596). For other authors, there is no conflict of interest.


26. J Neurol. 2025 May 8;272(6):383. doi: 10.1007/s00415-025-13117-w.

Novel strategies for targeting tau oligomers in neurodegenerative diseases.

Lin J(1), Li H(1), Jiang L(2), Li J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Blood Transfusion, The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Tongzipo Road, Changsha, 410000, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central 
South University, Tongzipo Road, Changsha, 410000, Hunan, China.
(3)Department of Blood Transfusion, The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Tongzipo Road, Changsha, 410000, Hunan, China. 603196@csu.edu.cn.

Tau protein is a soluble microtubule-associated protein enriched in neurons, is 
mainly distributed in the central nervous system, and is responsible for 
stabilizing neurons. Tau maintains nerve cell morphology and internal transport 
by binding to normal microtubules. In neurodegenerative diseases, such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), tau proteins undergo aberrant phosphorylation, 
resulting in their removal from microtubules and the formation of 
neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), which are key pathological features. In contrast 
to the late formation of non-soluble NFTs, early, smaller, soluble tau oligomers 
(tauO) with disseminated toxicity are considered necessary in neurodegenerative 
disorders, such as the primary form of tau toxicity in the AD process. Although 
an increasing number of studies are focusing on tauO, there are still problems 
to be solved, mainly concerning the molecular and inhibitory mechanisms of tauO 
toxicity. In this paper, we summarize the new strategies for the molecular 
mechanisms of tauO toxicity, detection methods, and interventions in the last 
five years. An outlook on these new strategies and the challenges that may be 
foreseen is presented to provide new directions for future applications in the 
clinical treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-025-13117-w
PMID: 40335778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: The authors 
have no conflict of interest to declare for this article.


27. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2025 Oct;46(10):2608-2621. doi:
10.1038/s41401-025-01566-y.  Epub 2025 May 7.

OTUD1 positively regulates microglia neuroinflammation and promotes the 
pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease by deubiquitinating C/EBPβ.

She LY(#)(1)(2)(3), Li LY(#)(1), Tang H(#)(1)(3), Yu Q(1), Gao FY(1), Zeng 
YQ(1)(2), Chen LJ(1)(2), Xiong L(3), Li LW(3), Chen F(1)(3), Sun JF(1)(4), Zheng 
WH(5), Zhao X(6)(7)(8), Liang G(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)The First People's Hospital of Lin'an District, Affiliated Lin'an People's 
Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 310014, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Institute of Inflammation, Zhejiang Provincial 
People's Hospital, Affiliated People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, 
Hangzhou, 310014, China.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 
311399, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines of the Changbai Mountain, Ministry of 
Education, Yanbian University, Yanji, 133002, China.
(5)Center of Reproduction, Development and Aging and Institute of Translation 
Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Macau, Taipa, Macau, 999078, 
China.
(6)The First People's Hospital of Lin'an District, Affiliated Lin'an People's 
Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 310014, China. xiazhao@hmc.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Pharmacy and Institute of Inflammation, Zhejiang Provincial 
People's Hospital, Affiliated People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, 
Hangzhou, 310014, China. xiazhao@hmc.edu.cn.
(8)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 
311399, China. xiazhao@hmc.edu.cn.
(9)The First People's Hospital of Lin'an District, Affiliated Lin'an People's 
Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 310014, China. 
wzmcliangguang@163.com.
(10)Department of Pharmacy and Institute of Inflammation, Zhejiang Provincial 
People's Hospital, Affiliated People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College, 
Hangzhou, 310014, China. wzmcliangguang@163.com.
(11)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, 
311399, China. wzmcliangguang@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease worldwide. 
Microglia-mediated neuroinflammation is closely associated with AD pathogenesis. 
Abnormal deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB) expression is associated with 
neuroinflammation. Identification of functional DUBs in microglia may provide 
novel targets for AD treatment. Here, we found that the levels of DUB, ovarian 
tumor deubiquitinase 1 (OTUD1), were upregulated in AD model mice and 
amyloid-beta-induced microglia. OTUD1 knockdown in microglia significantly 
inhibited neuroinflammation, thereby improving cognitive impairment in AD model 
mice. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis coupled with 
co-immunoprecipitation revealed the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein β (C/EBPβ), a 
key transcription factor regulating microglial inflammation, as an 
OTUD1-interacting protein. Mechanistically, OTUD1 bound to C/EBPβ and maintained 
its stability by removing the K48 ubiquitin chain at K253 of C/EBPβ, thereby 
activating the C/EBPβ-nuclear factor-κB-mediated inflammatory responses in 
microglia. Overall, our results revealed the roles of the OTUD1-C/EBPβ axis in 
mediating the microglial inflammatory responses and AD pathology, facilitating 
the development of new strategies targeting microglial neuroinflammation for AD 
treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Shanghai Institute of Materia 
Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1038/s41401-025-01566-y
PMCID: PMC12460882
PMID: 40335710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


28. Sci Rep. 2025 May 7;15(1):15910. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-98182-x.

In silico design of novel pyridazine derivatives as balanced multifunctional 
agents against Alzheimer's disease.

Aloui M(1), El Fadili M(2), Mujwar S(3), Er-Rajy M(4), Abuelizz HA(5), 
Er-Rahmani S(6), Zarougui S(4), Menana E(4).

Author information:
(1)LIMAS Laboratory, Faculty of Sciences Dhar El Mahraz, Sidi Mohamed Ben 
Abdellah University, Fez, Morocco. mourad.aloui@usmba.ac.ma.
(2)LIMAS Laboratory, Faculty of Sciences Dhar El Mahraz, Sidi Mohamed Ben 
Abdellah University, Fez, Morocco. mohamed.elfadili@usmba.ac.ma.
(3)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, 140401, 
India.
(4)LIMAS Laboratory, Faculty of Sciences Dhar El Mahraz, Sidi Mohamed Ben 
Abdellah University, Fez, Morocco.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, King Saud 
University, PO Box 2457, 11451, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Dipartimento Di Chimica, Università di Torino, 10125, Torino, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) necessitates innovative therapeutic approaches that 
target its multifaceted pathology. This study investigates a series of 
2-aminoalkyl-6-(2-hydroxyphenyl)pyridazin-3(2H)-one derivatives as potential 
multi-target ligands for AD, aiming to simultaneously inhibit 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and amyloid-beta (Aβ) aggregation. To assess the 
therapeutic potential of these compounds, we employed a comprehensive 
computational approach, incorporating 2D-QSAR modeling, molecular dynamics 
simulations, molecular docking, and ADMET property analysis. Based on these 
analyses, we designed 13 novel pyridazine derivatives exhibiting favorable 
interactions with key AD-related proteins, enhanced dynamic stability within 
protein binding sites, and adherence to established drug-likeness principles. 
Notably, these compounds demonstrated promising oral absorption (96%) and 
exhibited no significant toxicity in preliminary assessments. These results 
indicate that the novel pyridazine derivatives warrant further investigation as 
promising multifunctional agents for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-98182-x
PMCID: PMC12059048
PMID: 40335607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


29. Sci Rep. 2025 May 7;15(1):15950. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-00292-z.

EEG-based neurodegenerative disease diagnosis: comparative analysis of 
conventional methods and deep learning models.

Nayana BR(1), Pavithra MN(1), Chaitra S(1), Bhuvana Mohini TN(1), Stephan T(2), 
Mohan V(3), Agarwal N(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, M. S. Ramaiah University of 
Applied Sciences, Bangalore, Karnataka, India.
(2)Thumbay College of Management and AI in Healthcare, Gulf Medical University, 
Ajman, United Arab Emirates.
(3)Department of Mechatronics, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal Academy 
of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India. vijay.mohan@manipal.edu.
(4)School of Chemical Engineering, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan, 38541, 
Republic of Korea. cheneha9@yu.ac.kr.

In the context of lifestyle changes, stress and other environmental factors have 
resulted in the sudden hike in dementia globally. This necessitates 
investigations with respect to every horizon of the due cause for it; further 
on, the diagnosis and treatments can be advanced with the aid of technology. 
This work attempts to conduct one such investigation on dementia diagnosis based 
on EEG signals. The implementation is carried out under three different 
verticals. Firstly, a conventional machine learning model was developed 
post-pre-processing, and feature extraction from the power spectral density was 
done using a Random Forest classifier. Second, 1D Convolutional Neural Networks 
models are developed, and pre-processed EEG signals are fed as input. Third, 
stacked spectrogram images are computed from decomposed EEG signals and are fed 
to 2D CNN models for classification. The investigations are performed on three 
different benchmark datasets. Across three datasets, the class labels include 
cognitively normal, frontotemporal dementia, mild cognitive impairment, and 
Alzheimer's. The study offers a comparative evaluation across three distinct 
datasets, illustrating that deep learning models, particularly 1D and 2D CNNs, 
consistently outperform conventional methods in recognizing subtle EEG signal 
patterns linked to neurodegenerative conditions. For instance, in Dataset 1, the 
2D CNN achieved the highest accuracy of 91.13%, surpassing the Random Forest 
model's 84.78% accuracy. Nevertheless, the investigation also points out 
challenges in Dataset 3, indicating the necessity for further model optimization 
tailored to specific datasets. Statistical tests validate the findings. This 
study showcases a comparative investigation of the potential of deep learning 
models vs. conventional classifiers in clinical environments for the early 
diagnosis of dementia.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-00292-z
PMCID: PMC12058994
PMID: 40335527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


30. Nat Commun. 2025 May 7;16(1):4235. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-56910-x.

Characterising acute and chronic care needs: insights from the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Acute and Chronic Care Collaborators.

Collaborators: Anza-Ramirez C, Miranda JJ, Armocida B, Correia JC, Van Spall 
HGC, Beran D, Aali A, Abate KH, Abate SM, Abbafati C, Abbasi-Kangevari M, 
Abbasi-Kangevari Z, Abbastabar H, Abdel-Azeem AM, Abdelmasseh M, Abd-Elsalam S, 
Abdelwahab A, Abdoli G, Abdollahi M, Abdoun M, Abdulah DM, Md Abdullah AY, 
Abdurehman AM, Abebe G, Abedi A, Abedi V, Abidi H, Aboagye RG, Abolhassani H, 
Abreu LG, Abrigo MRM, Abtew YD, Ali HA, Abu-Gharbieh E, Abu-Zaid A, Accrombessi 
MMK, Acuna JM, Adane DE, Adane TD, Addo IY, Addolorato G, Adeagbo OA, Adekanmbi 
V, Adesina MA, Adetokunboh OO, Adeyinka DA, Adnani QES, Afolabi AA, Afzal MS, 
Afzal S, Agarwal G, Agarwal P, Agasthi P, Agrawal A, Agudelo-Botero M, Ahinkorah 
BO, Ahmad A, Ahmad S, Ahmad S, Ahmad T, Ahmadi A, Ahmadi K, Ahmadi S, Ahmed A, 
Ahmed A, Ahmed H, Ahmed JQ, Ahmed LA, Aithala JP, Ajami M, Aji B, Akbarialiabad 
H, Akelew Y, Akhlaghdoust M, Aklilu A, Akonde M, Hamad HA, Alahdab F, Al-Aly Z, 
Alam K, Alam M, Alam N, Alam S, Alanezi FM, Alanzi TM, Alcalde-Rabanal JE, 
Alemayehu A, Alemu BAA, Alene KA, Algammal AM, Alhabib KF, Alhajri N, Al-Hanawi 
MK, Alhassan RK, Ali L, Ali M, Ali SS, Samakkhah SA, Alicandro G, Alif SM, 
Alimohamadi Y, Al-Jumaily A, Aljunid SM, Alla F, Almalki MJ, Al-Maweri S, 
Almustanyir S, Alomari MA, Alonso J, Alonso N, Al-Raddadi RM, Al-Sabah SK, 
Al-Tammemi AB, Altirkawi KA, Alvis-Guzman N, Alvis-Zakzuk NJ, Amare AT, Amare H, 
Ameyaw EK, Amin TT, Dehkordi JA, Amir A, Amiri H, Amiri S, Amu H, Amuasi JH, 
Amugsi DA, Amusa GA, Anagaw TF, Ancochea J, Ancuceanu R, Anderlini D, Andrei CL, 
Andrei T, Androudi S, Anjana RM, Anoushiravani A, Ansar A, Ansari-Moghaddam A, 
Antony B, Antriyandarti E, Antwi MH, Anvari D, Anwer R, Anyasodor AE, Apostolaki 
S, Appiah F, Arabloo J, Arab-Zozani M, Areda D, Aref HMA, Argaw ZG, Ariffin H, 
Ärnlöv J, Arruda R, Arshad M, Artaman A, Artamonov AA, Artanti KD, Arulappan J, 
Aruleba RT, Arumugam A, Aryal KK, Aryan Z, Asadi-Pooya AA, Asemi Z, Asgary S, 
Asghari-Jafarabadi M, Ashraf T, Assaye AM, Astell-Burt T, Ataei M, Atafar Z, 
Athar M, Athari SS, Atorkey P, Atreya A, Atteraya MS, Attia S, Aujayeb A, 
Ausloos M, Avan A, Quintanilla BPA, Ayana TM, Ayele AD, Ayele MT, Ayelign B, 
Ayinde OO, Ayuso-Mateos JL, Azadnajafabad S, Azangou-Khyavy M, Jafari AA, Azzam 
AY, Babajani A, Babu AS, Badar M, Badawi A, Badiye AD, Baghcheghi N, Bagheri N, 
Bagherieh S, Bahadory S, Baig AA, Bairwa M, Baker JL, Bakkannavar SM, Balta AB, 
Baltatu OC, Banerjee A, Banerjee I, Banik PC, Bansal H, Bantie AT, Bardhan M, 
Barker-Collo SL, Bärnighausen TW, Barone MTU, Barone-Adesi F, Barqawi HJ, Barra 
F, Barrow A, Barteit S, Barua L, Bashiri A, Baskaran P, Basu S, Basu S, Batiha 
AM, Baune BT, Bedi N, Begum T, Ramirez DFB, Belay HBY, Belay MM, Belgaumi UI, 
Bell ML, Belo L, Bendak S, Bennett DA, Bensenor IM, Benzian H, Berhie AY, Berman 
AE, Bernstein RS, Bhagavathula AS, Bhandari D, Bhardwaj N, Bhardwaj P, Bhaskar 
S, Bhat AN, Bhat V, Bhattarai S, Bhojaraja VS, Bikbov B, Bills CB, Biondi A, 
Birara S, Biswas A, Biswas RK, Bitaraf S, Blyuss O, Boachie MK, Bodicha BBA, 
Bodolica V, Bojia HA, Boloor A, Botelho JS, Bouaoud S, Bourne R, Bragazzi NL, 
Braithwaite D, Brant LC, Breitborde NJK, Brenner H, Breugem C, Briko NI, Britton 
G, Brown J, Brugha T, Brunoni AR, Buchbinder R, Bulamu NB, Buonsenso D, Burkart 
K, Burns RA, Nagaraja SB, Butt MH, Butt NS, Butt ZA, Cai T, Calina D, Cámera LA, 
Campos LA, Cao C, Carneiro VLA, Carreras G, Carvalho AF, Carvalho M, 
Castaldelli-Maia JM, Castelpietra G, Catapano AL, Cattaruzza MS, Cederroth CR, 
Cembranel F, Cerin E, Chakraborty PA, Chandrasekar EK, Chang JC, Chanie GS, 
Charalampous P, Chattu VK, Chaturvedi S, Chaurasia A, Chen MX, Chen S, Cherbuin 
N, Ching PR, Chitheer A, Cho WCS, Chong YY, Chopra H, Chou TC, Choudhari SG, 
Chowdhury EK, Chowdhury R, Christensen H, Christensen SWM, Christopher DJ, Chu 
DT, Chukwu IS, Chung SC, Ciuffreda R, Clark SR, Claro RM, Coberly K, Conde J, 
Corso B, Criqui MH, Cross M, Cruz-Martins N, Dadras O, Dai X, Damasceno AAM, 
Damiani G, Danawi HA, Das JK, Das S, Dascalu AM, Dastiridou A, Dávila-Cervantes 
CA, Davletov K, De la Hoz FP, De Luca M, Debela SA, Degefu N, Dehghan A, Dehghan 
A, Dejene H, Dellavalle RP, Demetriades AK, Demisse B, Demisse FW, Demissie S, 
Denova-Gutiérrez E, Dereje D, Derese M, Dervenis N, Desai HD, Desai R, Dessalegn 
FN, Dessie G, Desta AA, Deuba K, Dey S, Dhali A, Dhimal M, Dhingra S, Diao N, 
Dias da Silva D, Dibaba DT, Digesa LE, Diress M, Dixit A, Dixit SG, Djalalinia 
S, Doaei S, Dodangeh M, Doheim MF, Doku PN, Dongarwar D, Dora BT, Dorostkar F, 
Dos Santos WM, Doshi CP, Doshi R, Doshmangir L, Douiri A, Dsouza HL, Dube J, 
Duraes AR, Durojaiye OC, Edinur HA, Edvardsson D, Edvardsson K, Efendi F, 
Ehsani-Chimeh E, Eini E, Ekholuenetale M, Ekundayo TC, El Nahas N, El Sayed I, 
El Tantawi M, El-Abid H, Elbarazi I, Elema TB, Elgar FJ, Elgendy IY, ElGohary 
GMT, Elhabashy HR, Elhadi M, Elmonem MA, Bain LE, Erkhembayar R, Esayas HL, 
Esezobor CI, Eshrati B, Eskandarieh S, Espinosa-Montero J, Esposito F, Etaee F, 
Etafa W, Ezzikouri S, Fagbamigbe AF, Faghani S, Falzone L, Faraon EJA, Dehghan 
SF, Farinha CSES, Faro A, Farooq U, Faruk MO, Fasanmi AO, Fasanmi AO, 
Fatehizadeh A, Fattahi N, Fauk NK, Feigin VL, Fekadu G, Feng X, Fereshtehnejad 
SM, Feroze AH, Ferrara P, Ferrari A, Ferrero S, Fetensa G, Feyisa BR, Filip I, 
Fischer F, Flavel J, Flood D, Folayan MO, Fonseca AC, Fornari A, Foroutan B, 
Fowobaje KR, Freitas A, Freitas M, Friedman SD, Fukumoto T, Gaal PA, Gadanya MA, 
Gaidhane AM, Gaihre S, Galali Y, Galehdar N, Gallus S, Ganesan B, 
Garcia-Gordillo MA, Garg P, Gaspar Fonseca M, Gazzelloni F, Gbadamosi SO, 
Gebrehiwot M, Gebrekidan KG, Gebremeskel TG, Gela YY, Geleta LA, Gerema U, 
Getacher L, Getachew T, Ghadiri K, Ghaffarpasand F, Ghafourifard M, Ghahramani 
S, Ghamari SH, Ghanbari R, Ghasemi Nour M, Ghashghaee A, Ghazi Sherbaf F, Ghodsi 
Z, Gholamalizadeh M, Gholami A, Gholamrezanezhad A, Ghozali G, Ghozy S, Gill TK, 
Ginindza TG, Glasbey JC, Göbölös L, Goel A, Golechha M, Goleij P, Golinelli D, 
Gomes NGM, Gopalani SV, Gorini G, Goudarzi H, Goulart AC, Goulart BNG, Grivna M, 
Guadamuz JS, Guadie HA, Gubari MIM, Gudisa Z, Guha A, Guimarães RA, Gupta B, 
Gupta R, Gupta S, Gupta VB, Gupta VK, Gupta VK, Guta A, Guzman-Vilca WC, 
Asgarabad MH, Habibzadeh P, Hachinski V, Hadei M, Hafezi-Nejad N, Ali AH, 
Haj-Mirzaian A, Halboub ES, Halimi A, Hall BJ, Halwani R, Hamadeh RR, Hambisa 
MT, Hameed S, Hamidi S, Hamiduzzaman M, Hanif A, Hankey GJ, Hannan MA, Haque MN, 
Harapan H, Hargono A, Hariyani N, Haro JM, Harorani M, Hartono RK, Hasaballah 
AI, Hasan F, Hasan MT, Hasan MM, Hasani H, Hassan AM, Hassan A, Hassan S, 
Hassanian-Moghaddam H, Hassanipour S, Hassankhani H, Havmoeller RJ, Hayat K, 
Hebert JJ, Hedna K, Heidari M, Heidari-Soureshjani R, Hendrie D, Herrera-Serna 
BY, Heyi DZ, Hezam K, Hiraike Y, Holla R, Horita N, Hossain MM, Hossain S, 
Hosseinzadeh M, Hostiuc M, Hostiuc S, Hoveidamanesh S, Hsairi M, Hsiao AK, Huang 
J, Hudson IL, Hussain S, Hussain Z, Hussein NR, Hussien FM, Hwang BF, Ibitoye 
SE, Ilesanmi OS, Ilic IM, Ilic MD, Immurana M, Inbaraj LR, Irham LM, Islam MR, 
Islam MM, Islam R, Islam SMS, Islami F, Ismail NE, Iso H, Isola G, Itiola AJ, 
Iwagami M, Iwu CCD, Iwu-Jaja CJ, Iyamu IO, J LM, Jaafari J, Jacob L, 
Jadidi-Niaragh F, Jahrami H, Jain R, Jaiswal A, Jakovljevic M, Jamshidi E, Jani 
CT, Janodia MD, Javaheri T, Jayanna K, Jayapal SK, Jayarajah U, Jayaram S, 
Jazayeri SB, Jebai R, Jeganathan J, Jemere DM, Jeyakumar A, Jha V, Ji JS, 
Johnson O, Jonas JB, Joo T, Joseph A, Joseph N, Joshua V, Joukar F, Jozwiak JJ, 
Jürisson M, Kaambwa B, Kabir A, Kabir Z, Kadashetti V, Kadir DH, Kakodkar PV, 
Kalani R, Kalankesh LR, Kalankesh LR, Kalhor R, Kaliyadan F, Kamal VK, Kamath A, 
Kamath R, Kamiab Z, Kamyari N, Kanchan T, Kandel H, Kantar RS, Kapoor N, Karami 
H, Karanth SD, Karaye IM, Karimi SE, Karkhah S, Kashoo FZ, Kassie GM, Katoto 
PDMC, Kattea MO, Kauppila JH, Kayode GA, Keikavoosi-Arani L, Kejela GG, Kempen 
JH, Kerr JA, Keskin C, Keykhaei M, Khader YS, Khajuria H, Khalafi M, Khalid N, 
Khammarnia M, Khan A, Khan AA, Khan EA, Khan IA, Khan M, Khan MJ, Khan MAB, Khan 
MN, Khan YH, Khanali J, Khatab K, Khatatbeh MM, Khater MM, Khateri S, Khatib MN, 
Kashani HRK, Khazaeipour Z, Khosravi A, Khubchandani J, Kim GR, Kim J, Kim YJ, 
Kimokoti RW, Kisa A, Kisa S, Kivimäki M, Kneib CJ, Kochhar S, Koh DSQ, Kolahi 
AA, Kolkhir P, Koly KN, Kompani F, Koohestani HR, Korshunov VA, Korzh O, Kosen 
S, Koul PA, Koulmane Laxminarayana SL, Koyanagi A, Krishan K, Krishnamoorthy V, 
Kruger E, Defo BK, Bicer BK, Kuddus M, Kugbey N, Kumar A, Kumar M, Kumar N, 
Kumar N, Kumar N, Kurmi OP, Kusuma D, Kuttikkattu A, Vecchia C, Lacey B, 
Laflamme L, Lal DK, Lalloo R, Lallukka T, Lám J, Lami FH, Lan Q, Landires I, 
Lang JJ, Langguth B, Larijani B, Larsson AO, Latief K, Lau SYJ, Laurens MB, 
Lauriola P, Layoun H, Lee DW, Lee PH, Lee SW, Lee SW, Lee SWH, Lee WC, Lee YH, 
Legesse SM, Leigh J, Leonardi M, Leong E, Li A, Li MC, Libra M, Likaka ATM, Lim 
DL, Lim LL, Lim SS, Lin RT, Linehan C, Linn S, Liu G, Liu J, Liu S, Liu W, Lo 
CH, Lopes G, Lopukhov PD, Loreche AM, Lorenzovici L, Lotfi M, Loureiro JA, 
Lucchetti G, Lunevicius R, Machado VS, Madadizadeh F, Maddison R, El Razek HMA, 
Prasad DRM, Mahajan PB, Mahasha PW, Mahjoub S, Mahmoud MA, Mahmoudi R, 
Mahmoudimanesh M, Majeed A, Malagón-Rojas JN, Rad EM, Malik AA, Mallhi TH, Manla 
Y, Mansour A, Mansouri B, Mansournia MA, Mantovani LG, Marjani A, Arnedo CAM, 
Martinez-Piedra R, Martinez-Valle A, Martini S, Martins-Melo FR, Martorell M, 
Masoudi S, Mathews E, Mathioudakis AG, Maude RJ, Maulik PK, Maulud SQ, Mechili 
EA, Meena JK, Meherali SM, Mehmood K, Mehndiratta MM, Nasab EM, Mehta KM, 
Mekonnen LB, Memish ZA, Mendoza W, Mendoza-Cano O, Menezes RG, Mentis AA, 
Meretoja A, Meretoja TJ, Meselu BT, Mesfin BA, Mestrovic T, Miazgowski T, Micha 
G, Michalek IM, de Sá ACMGN, Mihrtie GN, Miller TR, Mirghaderi SP, 
Mirghafourvand M, Mirica A, Mirijello A, Mirmoeeni S, Mirrakhimov EM, Mirza M, 
Mirzaei M, Mirzaei R, Misganaw A, Misra S, Mithra P, Mittal C, Moghadasi J, 
Mohamadkhani A, Mohamed AZ, Mohammad KA, Mohammad-Alizadeh-Charandabi S, 
Mohammadi E, Mohammadi S, Mohammed H, Mohammed S, Mohan S, Moka N, Mokdad AH, 
Molokhia M, Momtazmanesh S, Monasta L, Moncatar TJRT, Mondello S, Moni MA, 
Moniruzzaman M, Montazeri F, Moosavi D, Moradi Y, Moradi-Lakeh M, Moraga P, 
Moreira RS, Morgado-da-Costa J, Morovatdar N, Morris ME, Morrison SD, Mossialos 
E, Mostafavi E, Motaghinejad M, Mouodi S, Khaneghah AM, Mubarik S, Muccioli L, 
Mueller UO, Mukherjee S, Mulita F, Mulu GB, Munblit D, Murillo-Zamora E, Murthy 
S, Musina AM, Mustafa G, Muthupandian S, Mwita JC, Nabhan AF, Nagarajan AJ, 
Naimzada MD, Nair TS, Najafpour Z, Naldi L, Nangia V, Naqvi AA, Swamy SN, 
Narayana AI, Nascimento BR, Natarajan G, Natto ZS, Nayak BP, Nayak VC, Ndejjo R, 
Nduaguba SO, Negoi I, Negoi RI, Nejadghaderi SA, Nena E, Nepal S, Netsere HB, 
Nguefack-Tsague G, Ngunjiri JW, Ngwa CH, Niazi RK, Nigatu SG, Nikoobar A, 
Nikpoor AR, Nizam MA, Nnaji CA, Nomura S, Noor NM, Noroozi N, Norrving B, 
Noubiap JJ, Nouraei H, Ntaios G, Ntsekhe M, Nurrika D, Nutor JJ, Nzoputam CI, 
Nzoputam OJ, Obi FCA, Odukoya OO, Oghenetega OB, Ogunkoya A, Oh IH, Ojagbemi A, 
Okati-Aliabad H, Okekunle AP, Okonji OC, Oladunjoye AO, Oladunjoye OO, Olagunju 
AT, Olivas-Martinez A, Oliveira AB, Oliveira GMM, Olufadewa II, Olusanya BO, 
Olusanya JO, Bali AO, Ong S, Onwujekwe OE, Ortega-Altamirano DV, Ortiz A, Otoiu 
A, Otstavnov N, Otstavnov SS, Oulhaj A, Ouyahia A, Øverland S, Owolabi MO, A MP, 
Pacheco-Barrios K, Padron-Monedero A, Padubidri JR, Pal PK, Palicz T, Palladino 
R, Panda-Jonas S, Pandi-Perumal SR, Pangaribuan HU, Pant S, Papadopoulou P, 
Pardhan S, Park EC, Park EK, Park S, Pasupula DK, Patel J, Patel JR, Patel RS, 
Patel UK, Pathan AR, Patnaik RP, Paudel U, Pawar S, Toroudi HP, Peden AE, 
Pedersini P, Peng M, Pensato U, Pepito VCF, Peprah EK, Perdigão J, Pereira M, 
Pereira RB, Perico N, Perna S, Pestell RG, Pesudovs K, Petcu IR, Pezzani R, 
Phillips MR, Piccinelli C, Pigott DM, Pillay JD, Piracha ZZ, Pirouzpanah S, 
Pirsaheb M, Plotnikov E, Podder I, Podder V, Pofi R, Polibin RV, Polkinghorne 
KR, Poluru R, Pond CD, Porru F, Postma MJ, Pourtaheri N, Prada SI, Pradhan PMS, 
Prakash V, Prasad N, Proença L, Qattea I, Syed ZQ, Rabiee N, Radfar A, 
Radhakrishnan RA, Radhakrishnan V, Rafiee A, Raggi A, Raghav PR, Rahim F, Rahimi 
M, Rahimi-Movaghar V, Rahman A, Rahman MO, Ur Rahman MH, Rahman M, Rahman MA, 
Rahmani AM, Rahmani S, Rahmanian V, Raimondo D, Raimondo I, Moolambally SR, 
Rajput P, Rajsic S, Raju SB, Ram P, Ramazanu S, Rana J, Ranabhat CL, Rao CR, Rao 
SJ, Raru TB, Rashedi S, Rashidi MM, Rastogi P, Rasul A, Ratan ZA, Ravangard R, 
Rawaf DL, Rawassizadeh R, Raza RZ, Razeghian-Jahromi I, Mohamed Redwan EM, 
Remuzzi G, Renzaho AMN, Reshmi B, Rezaei N, Rezaei N, Rezaei N, Rezaei Z, 
Rezaeian M, Riad A, Riaz MA, Riaz M, Ribeiro ALP, Ribeiro DC, Ribeiro D, Silva 
TMRD, Rickard J, Rodrigues M, Rodriguez JAB, Roever L, Romero-Rodríguez E, 
Romoli M, Ronfani L, Roosihermiatie B, Rosenthal VD, Rostamian M, Roy B, 
Rubagotti E, Rumisha SF, Rwegerera GM, S M, N CS, Saad AMA, Sabbatucci M, 
Saber-Ayad MM, Sabour S, Sacco S, Sachdev PS, Sachdeva R, Saddik B, Sadeghi E, 
Sadeghi M, Sadeghi M, Sadeghian S, Saeb MR, Saeed U, Moghaddam SS, Safdar MAS, 
Safdarian M, Safi SZ, Sagar R, Sagoe D, Sahebkar A, Sahoo H, Sahraian MA, 
Saif-Ur-Rahman KM, Sajid MR, Sakhamuri S, Salah R, Salahi S, Salahi S, Salam N, 
Salamati P, Salem MR, Kafil HS, Samodra YL, Samy AM, Sanabria J, Sanmarchi F, 
Santos IS, Santric-Milicevic MM, Jose BPS, Saqib MAN, Saraswathy SYI, Sarikhani 
Y, Saroj RK, Sarrafzadegan N, Sarveazad A, Sathian B, Sathish T, Satpathy M, 
Sattin D, Sawhney M, Saya GK, Sayegh N, Scarmeas N, Schlaich MP, Schlee W, 
Schneider IJC, Schwebel DC, Seidu AA, Senthilkumaran S, Serban D, Serván-Mori E, 
SeyedAlinaghi S, Seylani A, Shafeghat M, Shaghaghi Z, Shah SM, Shahabi S, 
Shahbandi A, Shaheen AA, Shahraki-Sanavi F, Shahsavari HR, Shaikh MA, Shaji KS, 
Shakaib R, Shalash AS, Shanawaz M, Sharew MM, Sharew NT, Sharifi A, Sharifian S, 
Sharifi-Rad J, Sharma P, Sharma S, Sharma V, Shashamo BB, Shavandi AA, Shayan M, 
Shehaj B, Sheikh A, Sheikhi RA, Sheikhtaheri A, Shekhar S, Shetty A, Shetty BSK, 
Shetty JK, Shetty PH, Shi P, Shi Y, Shiani A, Shigematsu M, Shin JI, Shiri R, 
Shiri MS, Shishani K, Shivakumar KM, Shivarov V, Shobeiri P, Shorofi SA, 
Shrestha DBD, Shrestha S, Shuja KH, Shuval K, Sigfusdottir ID, Silva LMLR, Sima 
AR, Simegn W, Simonetti B, Sinaei E, Singal A, Singh A, Singh BB, Singh G, Singh 
H, Singh JA, Singh K, Singh NP, Singh P, Singh S, Sinto R, Siraj MS, Skou ST, 
Skryabin VY, Skryabina AA, Sleet DA, Socea B, Solomon Y, Soltani-Zangbar MS, 
Somayaji R, Song S, Song Y, Sood P, Soriano JB, Sousa RARC, Soyiri IN, 
Sreeramareddy CT, Starodubova AV, Steel N, Stefan SC, Stein DJ, Steiropoulos P, 
Stephens JH, Stokes MA, Stroumpoulis K, Suchdev PS, Suleman M, Sultana A, Sun J, 
Sundström J, Szeto MD, Szócska M, Tabaeian SP, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, 
Tabatabaeizadeh SA, Tabatabai S, Tabb KM, Tabish M, Tabuchi T, Tadakamadla SK, 
Taheri M, Abkenar YT, Soodejani MT, Talaat IM, Tampa M, Tan KK, Tarigan IU, 
Tarkang EE, Tat NY, Tat VY, Tefera YM, Tehrani H, Temesgen WA, Temsah MH, 
Teramoto M, Tesema GW, Tesfaye A, Thangaraju P, Thankappan KR, Thapar R, 
Thienemann F, Thomas N, Thomas NK, Thornton JD, Tichopad A, Ticoalu JHV, Tincho 
MB, Tonelli M, Topor-Madry R, Tovani-Palone MR, Tran MTN, Tripathi M, Tripathi 
N, Tripathy JP, Truelsen TC, Tsilimparis N, Car LT, Tufa DG, Tusa BS, Uezono DR, 
Ullah S, Ullah S, Umakanthan S, Umapathi KK, Umeokonkwo CD, Unim B, Unnikrishnan 
B, Upadhyay E, Vacante M, Vakilian A, Tahbaz SV, Valdez PR, Valizadeh R, Van den 
Eynde J, Vardavas C, Varma RP, Vart P, Varughese S, Vasankari TJ, Vasic M, 
Vaziri S, Venketasubramanian N, Verma M, Veroux M, Vervoort D, Villafañe JH, 
Violante FS, Vishwanath PM, Vlassov V, Vo B, Volovici V, Vu LG, Wang Y, Wang Y, 
Wang YP, Wang Z, Ward P, Waris A, Wei MY, Wen YF, Westerman R, Wiangkham T, 
Wickramasinghe ND, Woday AT, Tsadik DSW, Woldemariam M, Wolfe CDA, Woolf AD, Wu 
AM, Wubetie GA, Wulandari RDWI, Xiao H, Xie Y, Xu H, Xu S, Xu X, Yaghoubi S, 
Yahya GATY, Jabbari SHY, Yamada T, Yamagishi K, Yang L, Yano Y, Yaya S, 
Yazdanpanah F, Ye P, Yi S, Yiğit A, Yiğit V, Yip P, Yisihak E, Yon DK, Yonemoto 
N, You Y, Younis MZ, Yousefi Z, Yousefinezhadi T, Yusefi H, Zadey S, Zadnik V, 
Tajrishi FZ, Zahir M, Zakaryaei F, Zaki N, Zaman SB, Zamora N, Zangeneh A, 
Zangiabadian M, Zare I, Dehnavi AZ, Zarea K, Zareshahrabadi Z, Zastrozhin MS, 
Zegeye ZB, Zeitoun JD, Zenebe GA, Zepro NB, Zhang J, Zhang ZJ, Zhao XG, Zhong C, 
Ziaeian B, Zoladl M, Zuhlke LJ, Zumla A, Zuniga YMH.

Chronic care manages long-term, progressive conditions, while acute care 
addresses short-term conditions. Chronic conditions increasingly strain health 
systems, which are often unprepared for these demands. This study examines the 
burden of conditions requiring acute versus chronic care, including sequelae. 
Conditions and sequelae from the Global Burden of Diseases Study 2019 were 
classified into acute or chronic care categories. Data were analysed by age, 
sex, and socio-demographic index, presenting total numbers and contributions to 
burden metrics such as Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs), Years Lived with 
Disability (YLD), and Years of Life Lost (YLL). Approximately 68% of DALYs were 
attributed to chronic care, while 27% were due to acute care. Chronic care needs 
increased with age, representing 86% of YLDs and 71% of YLLs, and accounting for 
93% of YLDs from sequelae. These findings highlight that chronic care needs far 
exceed acute care needs globally, necessitating health systems to adapt 
accordingly.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-56910-x
PMCID: PMC12059133
PMID: 40335470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: A M Abdel-Azeem reports 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, 
paid or unpaid with the Arab Society for Fungal Conservation as the President, 
the International Mycological Association on the Executive Committee, and the 
African Mycological Association as the President; outside the submitted work. M 
R M Abrigo reports stock or stock options from Diliman Doctors’ Hospital; 
outside the submitted work. G Addolorato reports leadership or fiduciary roles 
in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the Study 
of Alcohol-related Liver Disease in Europe, as a committee member; outside the 
submitted work. S Afzal reports support for the present manuscript from King 
Edward Medical University for study materials, library facilities, internet, 
journals and e-books and other learning; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
King Edward Medical University and collaborative partners including the 
University of Johns Hopkins, University of California, University of 
Massachusetts, and University of Lahore; support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from King Edward Medical University; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with National Bioethics Committee Pakistan, 
King Edward Medical University Institutional Ethical Review Board, Ethical 
Review Board Fatima Jinnah Medical University and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital; 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, 
paid or unpaid with the Pakistan Association of Medical Editors, Fellow of 
Faculty of Public Health Royal Colleges UK (FFPH), Society of Prevention, 
Advocacy and Research, King Edward Medical University (SPARK), member of 
Pakistan Society of Infectious Diseases; and other support from King Edward 
Medical University. J Alonso reports support for the present manuscript from 
Departament de Recerca I Universitats of the Generalitat de Catalunya (AGAUR 
2021 SGR 00624). H Amare reports stock or stock options from GSK; outside the 
submitted work. R Ancuceanu reports consulting fees from Abbvie; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Abbvie, Sandoz, B. Braun, and Laropharm; outside the 
submitted work. M H Antwi reports support for the present manuscript from the 
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The funders of the study had no role in study 
design; collection, analysis and interpretation of data, or writing of the 
report. H Ariffin reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Amgen; outside 
the submitted work. J Ärnlöv reports payment or honoraria for lectures from 
AstraZeneca and Novartis; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or 
Advisory Board with AstraZeneca, Boerhinger Ingelheim, and Astella; outside the 
submitted work. A A Asadi-Pooya reports royalties or licenses from Oxford 
University Press; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Cobel Daru; outside the 
submitted work. T Astell-Burt reports grants or contracts from ARC Future 
Fellowship, Medical Research Futures Fund, and the National Health and Medical 
Research Council; outside the submitted work. P Atorkey reports support for the 
present manuscript from the Australian College of Applied Professions and Hunter 
Medical Research Institute. O O Ayinde reports grants or contracts from a 
research grant from Medical Research Council; support for attending meetings 
and/or travel from the British Medical Journal Global Health Grant; leadership 
or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or 
unpaid with the ASIDO Foundation as the Director of Policy and Research; outside 
the submitted work. T W BÃrnighausen reports grants or contracts from the 
European Union (Horizon 2020 and EIT Health), German Research Foundation (DFG), 
US National Institutes of Health, German Ministry of Education and Research, 
Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Else-Kroner-Fresenius-Foundation, Wellcome 
Trust, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, KfW, UNAIDS, WHO; consulting fees for 
KfW on the OSCAR initiative in Viet Nam; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with the NIH-funded study “Health Options”, 
German National Committee on the “Future of Public Health Research and 
Education”, EDCTP Evaluation, UNAIDS Evaluation Expert Advisory Committee, 
National Institute of Health Study section member on Population and Publica 
Health Approaches to HIV/AIDS (PPAH), US National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering, and Medicine’s Committee for the “Evaluation of Human Resources for 
Health in the Republic of Rwanda under the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS 
Relief (PEPFAR)”, University of Pennsylvania (UPenn) Population Aging 
Researching Center (PARC); leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, 
committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the Global Health Hub Germany 
as a Co-chair; outside the submitted work. J L Baker reports grants or contracts 
from Novo Nordisk Foundation, World Cancer Research Fund, and the Independent 
Research Council Denmark; consulting fees from Novo Nordisk Denmark; support for 
attending meetings and/or travel from the European Association for the Study of 
Obesity; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy 
groups, paid or unpaid with the European Association for the Study of Obesity; 
outside the submitted work. O C Baltatu reports support for the present 
manuscript from the National Council for Scientific and Technological 
Development (CNPq, 304224/2022-7), and Anima Institute; leadership or fiduciary 
roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with 
Technology Park São José dos Campos – Center for Innovation in Health 
Technologies (CITS) and Afya- UNINOVAFAPI. S L Barker-Collo payment or honoraria 
for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Auckland University of Technology; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Auckland University of Technology’s 
National Institute of Stroke and Applied Neurorehabilitation; outside the 
submitted work. B T Baune reports royalties or licenses from Elsevier, Springer; 
consulting fees from LivaNova, Janssen, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Otsuka/Lundbeck; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from LivaNova, Janssen, Boehringer-Ingelheim, 
Otsuka/Lundbeck; support for attending meetings and/or travel from LivaNova, 
Janssen, Otsuka/Lundbeck; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, 
committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the Network of 
Pharmacogenomics and Transcriptomics at the ECNP as a Chair; outside the 
submitted work. M L Bell reports support for the present manuscript from the 
National Institutes of Health (NIH); grants or contracts from US EPA, National 
Institutes of Health (NIH), High Tide Foundation, Health Effects Institute, Yale 
Women Faculty Forum, Environmental Defense Fund, Wellcome Trust Foundation, Yale 
Climate Change and Health Center, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation; consulting 
fees from Clinique; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Colorado School of Public 
Health, Duke University, University of Texas, Data4Justice, Korea University, 
Organization of Teratology Information Specialist, University of Pennsylvania, 
Boston University, IOP Publishing, National Institutes of Health (NIH), Health 
Canada, PAC-10, UKRI, AXA Research Fund Fellowship, Harvard University, and 
University of Montana; support for attending meetings and/or travel from 
Colorado School of Public Health, University of Texas, Duke University, Boston 
University, University of Pennsylvania, and Harvard University; leadership or 
fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid 
with Fifth National Climate Assessment, Lancet Countdown, US EPA Clean Air 
Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC), Johns Hopkins EHE Advisory Board, Harvard 
University on an external advisory committee for training grant, WHO Global Air 
Pollution and Health Technical on an advisory group, and National Academies as a 
panel/committee member. L Belo reports support from Fundação para a Ciência 
Tecnologia (FCT) project UIDP/04378/2020 and UIDB/04378/2020 of UCIBIO and 
project LA/P/0140/2020 of i4HB; outside the submitted work. B Bikbov reports 
grants or contracts from European Commission and Lombardy Region; support for 
attending meetings and/or travel from the European Renal Association; leadership 
or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or 
unpaid with the International Society of Nephrology as a member of the advocacy 
working group; outside the submitted work. A Biswas reports consulting fees from 
INTAS Pharmaceuticals, Lupin Limited; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Roche Diagnostics India Private Limited; support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from Sun Pharmaceuticals; outside the submitted work. G Britton reports 
grants or contracts from Sistema Nacional de Investigacion (063-2023), 
Secretaría Nacional de Ciencia, Tecnología e Innovación (FID-228-2022); outside 
the submitted work. J Brown reports grants or contracts from the National Health 
and Medical Research Council, Australian Research Council; payment or honoraria 
for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from University of Adelaide; outside the submitted work. R Buchbinder 
reports grants or contracts from the Australian National Health and Medical 
Research Council (NHMRC), Arthritis Australia, Australian Medical Research 
Future Fund (MRFF), Cabrini Foundation, HCF Foundation; royalties or licesnse 
from UpToDate; outside the submitted work. M Carvalho reports support from 
Fundação para a Ciência Tecnologia (FCT) project UIDP/04378/2020 and 
UIDB/04378/2020 of UCIBIO and project LA/P/0140/2020 of i4HB; outside the 
submitted work. J M Castaldelli-Maia reports grants or contracts from the French 
National Institute for Cancer, Pfizer, and Sanofi; consulting fees from L’Oreal; 
outside the submitted work. A L Catapano reports grants or contracts from 
Sanofi, Eli Lilly, Mylan, Sanofi Regeneron, and Amgen; payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Amgen, Astrazeneca, Aegerion, Amryt, Amarin, Daiichi Sankyo, 
Esperion, Inois Pharmaceutical, Medscape, Kowa, Mylan, Merck, Menarini, 
Novartis, Peer Voice, Pfizer, Recordati, Regeneron, Sanoz, Sanofi, and The 
Corpus; outside the submitted work. C R Cederroth reports grants or contracts 
from GENDER-NET GNP-182; outside the submitted work. H Christensen payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from BMI, Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, University of Bern; 
participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Bayer and 
PHRI; outside the submitted work. S W M Christensen reports support for the 
present manuscript from Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust via the 
Addressing the Challenge and Constraints of Insulin Sources and Supply study. D 
J Christopher reports grants or contracts from the Department of Biotechnology 
in India, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), 
National Institutes of Health (NIH), UK R&I Global Challenges Research Fund via 
the Institute of Global Innovation, University of Birmingham, UK, German Centre 
for Infectious Disease Research (DZIF), The Regents of the University of 
California (UCSF); payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Cipla, Zydus, Lupin, 
Abbot, Astra, Pfizer; support for attending meetings and/or travel from Lupin, 
Cipla, Zydus; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or 
advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with CMC, IRB, and the Indian Council of Medical 
Research; outside the submitted work. J Conde reports grants or contracts from 
the European Research Council starting grant; patents planned, issued, or 
pending from functionalized nanoparticles and compositions for cancer treatment 
and methods, and TRPV2 Antagonists; outside the submitted work. X Dai reports 
support for the present manuscript from the Institute for Health Metrics and 
Evaluation (IHME). S Das reports grants or contracts from the Bureau of 
Intelligence and Research (INR) Department of Science and Technology; leadership 
or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or 
unpaid with the American Association of Clinical Chemistry as a personalized 
medicine division member HEA division member, and member of women in global 
health; outside the submitted work. A K Demetriades payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Stryker, Integra, and Safe Orthopedics; leadership or fiduciary 
roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the 
European Association of Neurosurgical Societies (EANS) as a board member, the 
Global Neuro Foundation as a board member, and the AO Spine Knowledge Forum 
Degenerative Spine conditions as a steering committee member; outside the 
submitted work. M Derese reports support for the present manuscript from Leona 
M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust via the Addressing the Challenge and 
Constraints of Insulin Sources and Supply study. D Dias da Silva reports grants 
or contracts from the Faculty of Pharmacy of University of Porto, Escola 
Superior de Saúde Instituto Politécnico de Leiria, and Instituto Universitário 
de Ciências da Saúde (IUCS); consulting fees from Albert Labs, Eurox Pharma; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from the Faculty of Pharmacy of University of 
Porto, Escola Superior de Saúde Instituto Politécnico de Leiria, and Instituto 
Universitário de Ciências da Saúde (IUCS); support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from Eurox Pharma; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, 
committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the Portuguese Association of 
Forensic Sciences (APCF) as a member of the board; receipt of equipment, 
materials, drugs, medical writing, gifts or other services from Albert Labs and 
Eurox Pharma; outside the submitted work. H L Esayas reports payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Arba Minch University; outside the submitted work. S 
Farhang Dehghan reports support for the present manuscript from Leona M. and 
Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust via the Addressing the Challenge and 
Constraints of Insulin Sources and Supply study. A Faro reports support for the 
present manuscript from the National Council for Scientific and Technological 
Development (CNPq, Brazil). X Feng reports grants or contracts from NHMRC Career 
Development Fellowship, Medical Research Futures Fund, National Health and 
Medical Research Council (NHMRC); outside the submitted work. I Filip reports 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from Avicenna Medical and Clinical Research 
Institute; outside the submitted work. D Flood reports grants or contracts from 
the National Institute of Health (NIH); consulting fees from the World Health 
Organization (WHO); leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee 
or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with Maya Health Alliance as an unpaid staff 
physician; outside the submitted work. M Freitas reports grants or contracts 
from CEEC (Individual 2020.04126.CEECIND/CP1596/CT0006) and LAQV/REQUIMTE under 
the reference LA/P/0008/2020; outside the submitted work. P A Gaal reports 
support for the present manuscript from National Research, Development and 
Innovation Office in Hungary (RRF‐2.3.1‐21‐2022‐00006, Data‐Driven Health 
Division of National Laboratory for Health Security). S Gaihre reports support 
for the present manuscript from the Institute of Applied Health Sciences (IAHS), 
School of Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition (SMMSN), University of 
Aberdeen, UK. L Göbölös reports payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
the Asian Society for Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery (ASCVTS 2023) in 
Busan, Korea; outside the submitted work. N G M Gomes reports grants or 
contracts from Fundação para a Ciência Tecnologia (FCT); outside the submitted 
work. B N G Goulart reports stock or stock options in Pfizer and Takeda at NYSE; 
outside the submitted work. A Guha reports grants or contracts from the American 
Heart Association-Strategically Focused Research Network Grant in Disparities in 
Cardio-Oncology (#847740, #863620) and the Department of Defense Prostate Cancer 
Research Program's Physician Research Award (#HT94252310158); consulting fees 
from Novartis, Pfizer, and Myovant; outside the submitted work. V K Gupta 
reports grants or contracts from the National Health and Medical Research 
Council (NHMRC) of Australia; outside the submitted work. Amr Hassan reports 
consulting fees from Novartis, Sanofi Genzyme, Biologix, Merck, Hikma Pharma, 
Janssen, Inspire Pharma, Future Pharma, Elixir Pharma; payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Novartis, Allergan, Merck, Biologix, Janssen, Roche, Sanofi Genzyme, 
Bayer, Hikma Pharma, Al Andalus, Chemipharm, Lundbeck, Inspire Pharma, Future 
Pharma and Habib Scientific Office, and Everpharma; support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from Novartis, Allergan, Merck, Biologix, Janssen, Roche, 
Sanofi Genzyme, Bayer, Hikma Pharma, Al Andalus, Chemipharm, Inspire Pharma, 
Habib Scientific Office, and Everpharma; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, 
society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the Indian Health 
Service (IHS) as a board member; outside the submitted work. I M Ilic reports 
support for the present manuscript from the Ministry of Education, Science and 
Technological Development, Republic of Serbia (project 175042, 2011-2023). M D 
Ilic reports support for the present manuscript from the Ministry of Education, 
Science and Technological Development, Republic of Serbia (project 
451-03-47/2023-01/200111). S M S Islam reports support for the present 
manuscript from the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) of 
Australia and the National Heart Foundation of Australia; grants or contracts 
from the NHMRC and the National Heart Foundation of Australia; leadership or 
fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid 
with the ESC Heart Failure Association as a committee member, and the WHO-ITU 
Global Initiative on AI for Health as a group leader. N E Ismail reports 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, 
unpaid with the Malaysian Academy of Pharmacy as a council member and the 
Bursar; outside the submitted work. I O Iyamu reports grants or contracts from 
the Canadian Institute for Health Research and the University of British 
Columbia (UBC) fellowship; support for attending meetings and/or travel from the 
University of British Columbia (UBC) Designing for People research cluster; 
outside the submitted work. M Jakovljevic reports grants or contracts through 
the Grant OI 175 014 of the Ministry of Education Science and Technological 
Development of the Republic of Serbia. V Jha reports consulting fees from GSK, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Travere, Vera, Otsuka, Baxter Healthcare; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Bayer and GSK; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring 
Board or Advisory Board with Zydus Lifesciences; outside the submitted work. T 
Joo reports support for the present manuscript from the National Research, 
Development and Innovation Office in Hungary (RRF- 2.3.1-21-2022-00006, 
Data-Driven Division of National Laboratory for Health Security). A Joseph 
reports grants or contracts from American College of Gastroenterology; outside 
the submitted work. J J Jozwiak payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Novartis and Adamed; outside the submitted work. J H Kempen reports support for 
the present manuscript from the National Eye Institute, Massachusetts Eye and 
Ear Global Surgery Program, Sight for Souls, Research to Prevent Blindness; 
grants or contracts from USAID/American Schools and Hospitals Abroad; 
participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Gilead; 
stock or stock options from Betaliq and Tarsier Pharma. J Khubchandani reports 
grants or contracts from Teva Pharmaceuticals; outside the submitted work. M 
Kivimäki reports grants or contracts from Wellcome Trust (221854/Z/20/Z), 
Medical Research Council (R024227), National Institute on Aging (R01AG062553) 
and Academy of Finland, Finland (350426); outside the submitted work. P Kolkhir 
reports consulting fees from ValenzaBio; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Novartis; support for attending meetings and/or travel from Takeda; outside the 
submitted work. K Krishan reports other non-financial support from UGC Centre of 
Advanced Study, CAS II, Department of Anthropology, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, India; outside the submitted work. B Lacey reports support for the 
present manuscript from UK Biobank, funded largely by the UK Medical Research 
Council and Wellcome. T Lallukka reports support for the present manuscript from 
Academy of Finland (Grant #330527) and Social Insurance Institution of Finland 
(Grant 29/26/2020); grants or contracts from Finnish Centre for Pensions and The 
Juho Vainio Foundation. J Lám reports support for the present manuscript from 
the National Research, Development and Innovation Office in Hungary 
(RRF-2.3.1-21-2022-00006, Data-Driven Health Division of National Laboratory for 
Health Security). B Langguth reports grants or contracts from Bayhost, the 
German Research Foundation, the German Bundesministerium für Bildung und 
Forschung, Neuromod, the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation 
programme (European School for Interdisciplinary Tinnitus Research (ESIT), Grant 
agreement number 722046; Unification of Treatments and Interventions for 
Tinnitus Patients (UNITI) Grant Agreement Number 848261); royalties or licenses 
from Springer; consulting fees from Neuromod, Schwabe, Rovi; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Medical Tribune, Schwabe, Rovi; payment for expert 
testimony; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board 
with Neuromond and Rovi; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, 
committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with Neuromod, Retex, Morpheus, 
DGHP, HSN; stock or stock options in Sea Pharma; outside the submitted work. M B 
Laurens reports grants or contracts from UM1AI148689 Infectious Diseases 
Clinical Research Consortium 7/1/21-11/30/23: Exposure-response evaluation of IV 
artesunate in children with severe malaria; DMID 19-0007 DON in Pediatric 
Cerebral Malaria: A Phase 1 Dose-Escalation Safety Study NIH 1U01AI155300-01A1; 
BioNTech 2/23-11/24, Safety, Tolerability, and Immunogenicity of an 
investigational mRNA-based vaccine for malaria; A Phase 3, Randomized, 
Stratified, Observer-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study to Evaluate the Efficacy, 
Safety, and Immunogenicity of mRNA-1273 SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine in Adults Aged 18 
Years and Older, NIH HHSN272201300022I, Vaccine and Treatment Evaluation Units 2 
12/13/2021; Development of a CRISPR-based Rapid Diagnostic Test for Point of 
Care Diagnosis of Malaria, University of Maryland Medical Center Innovation 
Challenge; A Phase 1 Challenge Study to Evaluate Safety, Immunogenicity and 
Efficacy of a Malaria Vaccine (rCSP adjuvanted with GLA-LSQ), in Healthy Adults, 
DMID 13-0088; NIH HHSN272201300022I, Vaccine and Treatment Evaluation Units 
Accelerating Availability and Access to Typhoid Conjugate Vaccines (TyVAC 2.0) 
The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, INV-030857; outside the submitted work. M-C 
Li reports grants or contracts from the National Science and Technology Council, 
Taiwan (NSTC 112-2410-H-003-031); outside the submitted work. L-L Lim reports 
grants or contracts from Boehringer Ingelheim, Abbott, Zuellig Pharma, Novartis; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from AstraZeneca, Abbott, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Novo Nordisk, Roche, Zuellig Pharma, and Servier; outside the submitted work. G 
Liu reports support for the present manuscript from the Lung Foundation 
Australia. G Lopes reports grants or contracts from the Portuguese Foundation 
for Science and Technology (FCT) under the Scientific Employment 
Stimulus-Individual Call (CEECIND/01768/2021); outside the submitted work. G 
Lucchetti reports support for the present manuscript as a Grantee of the 
Research Productivity Scholarship – Level 1D (Medicine) - Brazilian National 
Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), Brazil. P W Mahasha 
reports support for attending meetings and/or travel from the South African 
Medical Research Council, Department of Nuclear Medicine, School of Medicine, 
University of Pretoria, Discipline of Traditional Medicine, School of Nursing 
and Public Health, University of KwaZulu Natal; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board as a member of International Community 
Advisory Group for STANDING Together, an editorial board member of the Journal 
Current Research in Public Health (CRPH), and an associate editorial board 
member of the Journal of Frontiers in Reproductive Health section HIV and STIs; 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, 
paid or unpaid with the Federation of Infectious Diseases Societies of Southern 
Africa (FIDSSA) as a member, the International Society for Infectious Diseases 
(ISID) as a member, the COVID-19 Clinical Research Coalition as a member, the 
Global Burden of Disease Collaborator Network as a member, the Scholars Academic 
and Scientific Society (SAS) (FSASS) as a fellow member, and the South African 
Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a member; outside the 
submitted work. M A Mahmoud reports grants or contracts from the Deputyship for 
Research and Innovation, Ministry of Education in Saudi Arabia (project 
445-5-133). J N Malagón-Rojas reports support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from the PIMENTO COST Project; outside the submitted work. L G Mantovani 
reports support for the present manuscript from the Italian Ministry of Health 
to Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS), Istituto 
Auxologico Italiano, Milano, Italy. S Martini reports leadership or fiduciary 
roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the 
Faculty of Public Health Universitas, Airlangga, Surabaya, Indonesia as the 
Dean; outside the submitted work. E Mathews reports grants or contracts from 
Wellcome DBT India Alliance funding; outside the submitted work. A G 
Mathioudakis reports grant or contracts from the National Institute for Health 
and Care Research (NIHR, UK) clinical lectureship, and NIHR Manchester 
Biomedical Research Centre. R J Maude reports support for the present manuscript 
from Wellcome Trust (grant 220211) as it provides core funding for Mahidol 
Oxford Tropical Medicine Research. A-F A Mentis reports funding from MilkSafe: a 
novel pipeline to enrich formula milk using omics technologies, a research 
co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund of the European Union and 
Greek national funds through the Operational Program Competitiveness, 
Entrepreneurship and Innovation, under the call RESEARCH - CREATE - INNOVATE 
(project code: T2EDK-02222), as well as from ELIDEK (Hellenic Foundation for 
Research and Innovation, MIMS-860); payment or expert testimony as an external 
peer-reviewer for Fondazione Cariplo, Italy; leadership or fiduciary roles in 
board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with Systematic 
Reviews journal as an editorial board member, Annals of Epidemiology journal and 
Translational Psychiatry Journal as Associate Editor; other support as a 
scientific officer at the BGI Group; outside the submitted work. T R Miller 
reports grants or contracts from AB InBec Foundation, National Institute of 
Mental Health (NIMH), National Institute of Health (NIH) and the National Cancer 
Institute (NCI); payment for expert testimony from Mobile, Alabama County Board 
of Health, New Mexico, Nevada, and Michigan; outside the submitted work. J J 
Miranda reports grants or contracts from the Alliance for Health Policy and 
Systems Research (HQHSR1206660), Bloomberg Philanthropies (grant 46129, via 
University of North Carolina at Grant support, Chapel Hill School of Public 
Health), FONDECYT via CIENCIACTIVA/CONCYTE C, British Council, British Embassy 
and the Newton-Paulet Fund (223-2018, 224-2018), DFID/MRC/Wellcome Global Health 
Trials (MR/M007405/1), Fogarty International Center (R21TW009982, D71TW010877, 
R21TW011740), Grand Challenges Canada (0335-04), International Development 
Research Center Canada (IDRC 106887, 108167), Inter- American Institute for 
Global Change Research (IAI CRN3036), National Cancer Institute (1P20CA217231), 
National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (HHSN268200900033C, 5U01HL114180, 
1UM1HL134590), National Institute of Mental Health (1U19MH098780), Swiss 
National Science Foundation (40P740-160366), UKRI BBSRC (BB/T009004/1), UKRI 
EPSRC (EP/V043102/1), UKRI MRC (MR/P008984/1, MR/P024408/1, MR/P02386X/1), 
Wellcome (074833/Z/04/Z, 093541/Z/10/Z, 103994/Z/14/Z, 107435/Z/15/Z, 
205177/Z/16/Z, 214185/Z/18/Z, 218743/Z/19/Z) and the World Diabetes Foundation 
(WDF15-1224), and Health Action International; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with DSMB, Nigeria Sodium Study (NaSS) Trial 
Steering Committee, INTEnsive care bundle with blood pressure Reduction in Acute 
Cerebral hemorrhage Trial (INTERACT 3) Unpaid International Advisory Board, 
Latin American Brain Health institute (BrainLat), Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez 
(Chile) Unpaid Consultative Board, Programa de Gastronomía, Facultad de Estudios 
Unpaid Interdisciplinarios, Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú Advisory 
Board, InterAmerican Heart Foundation (IAHF); leadership or fiduciary roles in 
board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid as a co-Chair of 
the Independent Group of Scientists (IGS), 2023 Global Sustainable Development 
Report, United Nations; member of the Scientific Expert Committee, Global Data 
Collaborative for CV Population Health, World Health Federation, Microsoft, and 
Novartis Foundation; member of the Scientific and Technical Advisory Committee 
(STAC), Alliance for Health Policy and Systems Research, World Health 
Organization; member of the WHO Technical Advisory Group on NCD-related Research 
and Innovation (TAG/RI), Noncommunicable Diseases Department, World Health 
Organization; member of the Advisory Scientific Committee, Instituto de 
Investigación Nutricional (Peru). S Mohammed reports support for the present 
manuscript from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. N Moka reports leadership 
or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or 
unpaid with the Kentucky Society of Clinical Oncology as a treasurer; outside 
the submitted work. L Monasta reports support for the present manuscript from 
the Italian Ministry of Health to the Institute for Maternal and Child Health 
IRCCS Burlo Garofolo, Trieste, Italia (RC 34/2017). R S Moreira reports grants 
or contracts from the National Council for Scientific and Technological 
Development, CNPq Research Productivity Scholarship 316607/2021-5. M E Morris 
reports grants or contracts from the National Health and Medical Research 
Council Australia (NHMRC GNT1152853 2019-2023) Partnership Grant, “A 
public-private partnership to reduce falls in Australian hospitals”; outside the 
submitted work. S D Morrison reports grants or contracts from the Seattle 
Children’s Academic Enrichment Fund; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Swedish Hospital CME honoraria; outside the submitted work. U O Mueller reports 
grants or contracts from the German National Cohort Study (grant #10ER2301C); 
outside the submitted work. B R Nascimento reports grants or contracts from CNPq 
(Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico Research 
Productivity Grant number 312382/2019-7), Edwards Lifesciences Foundation 
Research Grant for Global Health (Improving the Prevention and Detection of 
Heart Valve Disease Across the Lifespan, 2023) FAPEMIG (Fundação de Amparo a 
Pesquisa do Estado de Minas Gerais Research Grant number APQ-000627-20; outside 
the submitted work. G Natarajan reports grants or contracts from the project, 
“Study of prevalence of chronic kidney disease of Unknown etiology among 
Agricultural workers of Tamilnau”, funded by Tamilnadu Health System Reform 
Programme, and DRAKI (Dialysis requiring Acute Kidney injury) follow-up study, 
funded by Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR); leadership or fiduciary 
roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the 
Indian Society of Nephrology as a chairman on the scientific committee; outside 
the submitted work. S Nomura reports support for the present manuscript from the 
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan (MEXT). 
B Norrving participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board 
with Simbec-Orion; outside the submitted work. F C A Obi reports leadership or 
fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid 
with Health Systems Global as a board member, and the African Health Economics 
and Policy Association as an executive team member; outside the submitted work. 
O O Odukoya reports grants or contracts from Fogarty International Center of the 
National Institutes of Health under award number K43TW010704; outside the 
submitted work. A Ojagbemi reports grants or contracts from the National 
Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) and Wellcome Global Health 
Research Partnership International Intermediate Fellowship (ref: 220684/Z/20/Z); 
outside the submitted work. A P Okekunle reports grants or contracts from the 
National Research Foundation of Korea (2020H1D3A1A04081265); outside the 
submitted work. O O Oladunjoye reports payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Pri-Med; outside the submitted work. A B Oliveira reports support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from the International Headache Society; outside the 
submitted work. A Ortiz reports grants or contracts from IIS-Fundacion Jimenez 
Diaz UAM; grants from Sanofi and consultancy or speaker fees or travel support 
from Advicciene, Astellas, Astrazeneca, Amicus, Amgen, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Fresenius Medical Care, GSK, Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, Menarini, Mundipharma, Kyowa 
Kirin, Lilly, Alexion, Freeline, Idorsia, Chiesi, Otsuka, Novo-Nordisk, Sysmex 
and Vifor Fresenius Medical Care Renal Pharma and is Director of the Catedra 
Mundipharma-UAM of diabetic kidney disease and the Catedra Astrazeneca-UAM of 
chronic kidney disease and electrolytes; outside the submitted work. A Otoiu 
reports grants or contracts from Bucharest University for Economic Studies and 
the European Commission: Horizon 2020; support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from Bucharest University for Economic Studies; outside the submitted 
work. P K Pal reports grants or contracts from the Indian Council of Medical 
Research (ICMR), Department of Science & Technology (DST)-Science and 
Engineering Research Board, Department of Biotechnology (DBT), DST-Cognitive 
Science Research Initiative, Wellcome Trust UK-India Alliance DBT, PACE scheme 
of BIRAC, Michael J. Fox Foundation, SKAN (Scientific Knowledge for Ageing and 
Neurological ailments)-Research Trust; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events as 
Faculty/Speaker/Author from the International Parkinson and Movement Disorder 
Society, and Movement Disorder Societies of Korea, Taiwan and Bangladesh; 
support for attending meetings and/or travel from the International Parkinson 
and Movement Disorder Society, and Movement Disorder Societies of Korea, Taiwan 
and Bangladesh; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or 
advocacy groups, paid or unpaid as the past President of Indian Academy of 
Neurology, the past Secretary of Asian and Oceanian subsection of International 
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society (MDS-AOS), Editor-in-Chief of Annals of 
Indian Academy of Neurology, Co-Chair of the Education Committee of 
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society (IPMDS), President of the 
Parkinson Society of Karnataka, Chair of Infection Related Movement Disorders 
Study Group of MDS, member of Rare Movement Disorders Study Group of 
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society (IPMDS), member of 
Education Committee of IPMDS & IAPRD, member of Rating Scales Education and 
Training Program Committee of IPMDS, member of Neurophysiology Task Force of 
IPMDS, member of Movement Disorders in Asia Study Group, member of Post-Stroke 
Movement Disorders, member of Ataxia Study Group of IPMDS, member of Ataxia 
Global Initiative; outside the submitted work. T Palicz reports support for the 
present manuscript from the National Research, Development and Innovation Office 
in Hungary (RRF-2.3.1-21-2022-00006, Data-Driven Health Division of National 
Laboratory for Health Security). R Palladino reports grants or contracts from UK 
MS Society; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from Sanofi and MSD; outside the 
submitted work. S R Pandi-Perumal reports royalties or licenses from Springer; 
outside the submitted work. A E Peden reports support for the present manuscript 
from the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) 
Emerging Leadership Fellowship (APPID: APP2009306). J Perdigão reports support 
for the present manuscript from Fundação para a Ciência e Tecnologia (FCT) 
researching funding. R G Pestell reports grants or contracts from the National 
Institute of Health (NIH) (grant 1R43HL164131-01A1); support for attendance at 
research meetings by parent institution (Baruch S. Blumberg Institute) June 12, 
2023 Melbourne Australia Immune Oncology Therapy for Breast Cancer July 20, 2023 
8th World Congress on cancer research and therapy., Frankfurt, Germany AACR 
Annual Meeting, 2023, San Antonio breast Cancer meeting 2022; the following 
patents planned, issued, or pending: WO2004037983 US patent number 8,076,318; 
EP2399129, EU patent application no. 10744303.8 (issued in France, Germany and 
the UK under patent number EP2399129); US Patent application 14/090,538 
(publication number 20,160,139,132; US 2012-00398-05A1; AU 2012225232 Australian 
issued Patent No. 2012225232; US Patent issued 9,453,836; US 10,952,415; US 
16/363,981; JP 7003083; EP 2683643; US Patent 13/520,759 US Provisional 
Application No. 61/292,749; US Provisional Patent Application 62/183,08; US 
Provisional Patent Application 62/035,929; Publication Number US 20120039805 
Appl no. 13/202,318; Provisional Application No. 62/948,301; Provisional 
Application No 63093772; Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 63/178,633; 
EP3947431A1; Application No. 62/286,533 U.S. Provisional Patent Application 
Serial No. 63/178,633; U.S. Application No. 17/167,578; U.S. Application No. 
15/275,050; U.S. Application No. 16/363,981; outside the submitted work. M R 
Phillips reports grants or contracts from Global Alliance for Chronic Diseases- 
National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC. No. 81761128031), Global 
Alliance of Chronic Diseases/Chinese National Natural Science Foundation of 
China (NSFC, No. 81761128031), National Institute of Mental Health (grant 
MH108385 R01), National Institutes of Health (5RO1MH127631); outside the 
submitted work. C D Pond reports grants or contracts from the Valley to Coast 
Charitable research grants; consulting fees from the University of Sydney; 
Latrobe University; University of Melbourne, NSW Health, Sydney North Primary 
Health Network, Hunter New England Central Coast Primary Health Network, 
Brisbane North Primary Care Network, Royal Australian College of General 
Practitioners; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Dementia Training 
Australia, Health Education Training Institute, Roche, Biogen, Palliative Care 
Australia; payment for expert testimony from Legal Aid NSW; support for 
attending meetings and/or travel from Palliative Care Australia for the WONCA 
Conference 2023; participation in a data safety monitoring board or advisory 
board with the Happi Mind Project; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, 
society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with a special interest 
group in ageing and health, WONCA World GP Organization as a chair; outside the 
submitted work. M J Postma reports stock or stock options with PAG BV and 
Health=Ecore; outside the submitted work. N Prasad reports leadership or 
fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid 
with the International Society and Indian Society of Nephrology; outside the 
submitted work. A Radfar reports payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Avicenna Medical and Clinical Research Institute; outside the submitted work. V 
Radhakrishnan reports grants or contracts from the Conquer Cancer Foundation and 
St Jude Children’s Research Hospital; outside the submitted work. A Rahman 
reports support for the present manuscript from Charles Sturt University; 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, 
paid or unpaid with the Australia New Zealand Regional Science Association 
International Inc (ANZRSAI) as the secretary of the executive council; outside 
the submitted work. A Riad reports support for the present manuscript from the 
Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic, NPO “Systemic 
Risk Institute” (project LX22NPO5101). A L P Ribeiro reports support for the 
present manuscript from Brazilian public research agencies, CNPq (310790/2021-2 
and 465518/2014-1) and by FAPEMIG (PPM-00428-17 and RED-00081-16). Funders did 
not influence the content of the study. M Rodrigues reports support for the 
present manuscript from the Centre of Studies in Geography and Spatial Planning, 
funded by national funds through the Foundation for Science and Technology (FCT) 
under the reference UIDB/04084/2020. L Ronfani reports support for the present 
manuscript from the Italian Ministry of Health, funding received by the 
Institute for Maternal and Child Health IRCCS Burlo Garofolo (project “Ricerca 
Corrente 34/2017”). M Sabbatucci reports support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from Travel Grant Programme 2022 for Editorial Board Members from the 
Journal of Clinical Medicine (JCM) for conference participation; leadership or 
fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid 
with the Editorial Board of Journal of Clinical Medicine (JCM) as an unpaid 
member, the Board of the Global AMR R&D hub as an unpaid member, and GHSA 
(action package AMR and action package Surveillance) as an unpaid national 
representative; outside the submitted work. S Sacco reports grants or contracts 
from Novartis and Uriach; consulting fees from Novartis, Allergan-Abbvie, Teva, 
Lilly, Lundbeck, Pfizer, NovoNordisk, Abbott, AstraZeneca; payment or honoraria 
for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Novartis, Allergan-Abbvie, Teva, Lilly, Lundbeck, Pfizer, 
NovoNordisk, Abbott, AstraZeneca; support for attending meetings/travel from 
Lilly, Novartis, Teva, and Lundbeck; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, 
society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the European Stroke 
Organization as the president elect, and the European Headache Federation as the 
second vice-president; receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing, 
gifts or other services from Allergan-Abbvie and NovoNordisk; outside the 
submitted work. P S¬ Sachdev reports grants or contract from the National Health 
and Medical Research Council of Australia and the National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) USA; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from Biogen Australia and Roche 
Australia; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or 
advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with VASCOG Society on the executive committee; 
outside the submitted work. J Sanabria reports support for attending meetings 
and/or travel from the National Institute of Health (NIH) and the National 
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK); participation 
on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Quality Assessment and 
Assurance Department of Surgery; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, 
society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with ASTS, IHPBA, AASLD, 
and SSAT; outside the submitted work. N Scarmeas reports grants or contracts 
from NovoNordisc - Local PI of recruiting site for multinational, multicenter 
industry sponsored phase III treatment trial for Alzheimer's disease; 
participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine (NIH funded study) as the Chair of Data Safety 
Monitoring Board; outside the submitted work. M P Schlaich reports grants or 
contracts from National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia (NHMRC) 
and the Medical Research Foundation RPH; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Medtronic and Abbott; support for travel from Medtronic and Abbott; leadership 
or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or 
unpaid with Hypertension Australia as the president; outside the submitted work. 
A S Shalash payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from Movement Disorders Society; 
outside the submitted work. S Sharma reports grants or contracts from the 
International Association for the Study of Pain John J Bonica Postdoctoral 
Fellowship; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from the International Association for 
the Study of Pain (IASP) Congress in Toronto in 2022; support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from the International Association for the Study of Pain 
(IASP) Congress in Toronto in 2022; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring 
Board or Advisory Board with METEOR-2 Trial; leadership or fiduciary roles in 
board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the IASP Pain 
Mind and Movement Special Interest Group as an unpaid board member, and the 
Global Alliance of Partners for Pain Advocacy as a board member; all outside the 
submitted work. V Shivarov reports other financial support from ICON plc; 
outside the submitted work. S Shrestha reports other financial or non-financial 
support from School of Pharmacy, Monash University Malaysia and awarded with the 
Graduate Research Merit Scholarship to pursue doctoral studies; outside the 
submitted work. L M L R Silva reports grants or contracts from project 
CENTRO-04-3559-FSE-000162, Fundo Social Europeu (FSE); outside the submitted 
work. J A Singh reports consulting fees from Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, PK 
Med, Two labs Inc., Adept Field Solutions, Clinical Care options, Clearview 
Healthcare Partners, Putnam associates, Focus Forward, Navigant consulting, 
Spherix, MedIQ, Jupiter Life Science, UBM LLC, Trio Health, Medscape, WebMD, and 
Practice Point Communications, and the National Institutes of Health and the 
American College of Rheumatology; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
the speaker’s bureau of Simply Speaking; support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from the steering committee of OMERACT; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board as a member of the FDA Arthritis Advisory 
Committee; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or 
advocacy groups, paid or unpaid as a steering committee member of the OMERACT, 
with the Veteran Affairs Rheumatology Field Advisory Committee as a Chair, and 
with the UAB Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group Satellite Center on Network 
Meta-analysis as an Editor; stock or stock options in Atai Life Sciences, 
Kintara Therapeutics, Intelligent Biosolutions, Acumen pharmaceutical, TPT 
Global Tech, Vaxart Pharmaceuticals, Atyu Biopharma, Adaptimmune Therapeutics, 
GeoVax Labs, Pieris Pharmaceuticals, Enzolytics Inc., Seres Therapeutics, Tonix 
Pharmaceuticals Holding Corp., and Charlotte’s Web Holdings, Inc, and previously 
owned stock options in Amarin, Viking, and Moderna Pharmaceuticals; all outside 
the submitted work. S T Skou reports grants or contracts from the European 
Research Council, European Union’s Horizon 2020 research innovation program, and 
Region Zealand; royalties or licenses from Munksgaard and TrustMe-Ed; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Nestlé Health Science; other support as the co-founder 
of GLA:D; outside the submitted work. R Somayaji reports grants or contracts 
from Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Canadian Institutes of Health Research, 
University of Calgary, and Vertex Pharmaceuticals; consulting fees from Phase I 
trial for Clarametyx Inc; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Vertex 
Pharmaceuticals; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory 
Board for Oncovir Inc and Cystic Fibrosis Foundation; outside the submitted 
work. S Song reports grants or contracts from the University of Georgia and 
Georgia Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA) program; outside the 
submitted work. D J Stein reports other financial or non-financial support from 
Discovery Vitality, Johnson & Johnson, Kanna, L’Oreal, Lundbeck, Orion, Sanofi, 
Servier, Takeda and Vistagen; outside the submitted work. M A Stokes reports 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from Stanford Neurodiversity Summit 2022 and SIKON 
2022; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy 
groups, paid or unpaid with The Australasian Society for Autism Research as 
President, Kidsafe Victoria as Vice President, and the Council of the Aged as 
Director; outside the submitted work. P S Suchdev reports grants or contracts 
from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Bill and Melinda 
Gates Foundation; outside the submitted work. J Sundström reports stock or stock 
options in Anagram kommunikation AB and Symptoms Europe AB; outside the 
submitted work. M Szócska report support for the present manuscript from the 
National Research, Development and Innovation office in Hungary (grant 
RRF-2.3.1-21-2022-00006). R Tabarés-Seisdedos reports grants or contracts from 
Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation, Institute of Health Carlos III 
(PID2021-129099OB-I00) and the GENERALITAT VALENCIANA (CIPROM/2022/58); outside 
the submitted work. S K Tadakamadla reports grants or contracts from the 
National Health and Medical Research Council Early Career Fellowship; outside 
the submitted work. M Tonelli reports leadership or fiduciary roles in board, 
society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the International 
Society of Nephrology; outside the submitted work. D R Uezono reports other 
financial or non-financial support from Roche (Philippines) Inc; outside the 
submitted work. E Upadhyay reports published patents for a system and method of 
reusable filters for anti-pollution mask, a system and method for electricity 
generation through crop stubble by using microbial fuel cells, a system for 
disposed personal protection equipment (PPE) into biofuel through pyrolysis and 
method, and a novel herbal pharmaceutical aid for formulation of gel and method 
thereof; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy 
groups, paid or unpaid with the Indian Meteorological Society, Jaipur Chapter 
(India) as joint secretary and DSTPURSE Program as member secretary; outside the 
submitted work. H G C Van Spall reports support for the present manuscript from 
the Canadian Institute of Health Research. D Vervoort reports leadership or 
fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid 
with the Global Alliance for Rheumatic and Congenital Hearts as an unpaid board 
member; other financial or non-financial support from the Canadian Institutes of 
Health Research (Vanier Canada Graduate Scholarship); outside the submitted 
work. Z Wang reports grants or contracts from The Fred Hollows Foundation, 
McGill University Global Health Scholars Program, Fonds de recherche du Québec – 
Santé, and the China Scholarship Council; consulting fees from The Fred Hollows 
Foundations; support for attending meetings and/or travel from the Graduate 
Mobility Award from McGill University, and The Fred Hollows Foundations; 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, 
paid or unpaid with the Consortium of Universities for Global Health Trainee 
Advisory Committee; outside the submitted work. A Waris reports support for the 
present manuscript from Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust via the 
Addressing the Challenge and Constraints of Insulin Sources and Supply study. M 
Y Wei reports grants or contracts from the National Institutes of Health; 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, 
paid or unpaid with the Society of General Internal Medicine on the research 
committee as a chair; outside the submitted work. A D Woolf reports leadership 
or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or 
unpaid with the Global Alliance for Musculoskeletal Health as a co-chair; 
outside the submitted work. H Xu reports support for the present manuscript from 
National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD) 
U54MD012530; grants or contracts from the National Institute on Aging (NIA) 
(R21AG075228); support for attending meetings and/or travel from the National 
Institute on Aging (NIA) (R13AG054139). X Xu reports support for the present 
manuscript from the National Heart Foundation of Australia and the Scientia 
Program, University of New South Wales, Australia; outside the submitted work. S 
Zadey payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from Think Global Health, Harvard 
Public Health; support for attending meetings and/or travel from Gates 
Foundation for IDM Symposium 2023, Lancet Commission for Commission meeting 
2023, MoHFW for G-20 Youth Health Meet, New Delhi 2023 Duke University for KCMC 
Fieldwork 2023; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory 
Board with Nivarana, India; leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, 
committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with ASAR India as a board member 
and G4 Alliance as a council member; outside the submitted work. F Zakaryaei 
reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from Kurdistan University of Medical 
Science in 2021, the 11th International Virtual Seminar On COVID-19- Part II 
(SciTech CentralCOVID-19); patents planned, issued or pending: a composite 
fixator of nasogastric tube and Foley catheter, Iran (Patent No.104989); outside 
the submitted work. J-D Zeitoun reports consulting fees from Takeda and AbbVie; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from Boehringer Ingelheim; leadership or fiduciary 
roles in board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with 
Posos; stock or stock options in Allurion; other financial or non-financial 
support as a founding partner at Inato; outside the submitted work. B Ziaeian 
reports support for the present manuscript from NHLBI grant funding and the 
American Heart Association (AHA); leadership or fiduciary roles in board, 
society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the AHA Guideline 
Committee on Performance Measures and the AHA Guideline Committee on Clinical 
Practice. L J Zuhlke reports support for the present manuscript from the 
National Research Foundation of South Africa (NRFSA), as well as the UK Medical 
Research Council (MRC) and the UK Department for International Development 
(DFID) under the MRC/DFID Concordat agreement, via the African Research Leader 
Award (MR/S005242/1), the South African Medical Research Council (SAMRC) through 
its Division of Research Capacity Development under the Mid-Career Scientist 
Programme from funding received from the South African National Treasury (the 
content hereof is the sole responsibility of the authors and do not necessarily 
represent the official views of the SAMRC); leadership or fiduciary roles in 
board, society, committee or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the World 
Heart Federation, The Non-Communicable Disease Alliance, Food Forward South 
Africa and the Human Frontier Science Program. A Zumla reports other financial 
or non-financial support from the Pan African Network for Rapid Research, 
Response, and Preparedness for Infectious Diseases Epidemics Consortium 
(PANDORA-ID-NET), European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership 
the EU Horizon 2020 Framework Programme (EDCTP-RIA2016E-1609); outside the 
submitted work.


31. Exp Cell Res. 2025 Jun 1;449(1):114594. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2025.114594.
Epub  2025 May 5.

Mechanistic insights into elevated caspase-8 expression driving caspase-3 
activation and Gasdermin E-dependent pyroptosis in Alzheimer's disease.

Liu M(1), Chen J(2), Sun Y(2).

Author information:
(1)The Fourth Department of Neurology, Beidahuang Group General Hospital, Harbin 
City, 150088, China. Electronic address: 18504508703@163.com.
(2)The Fourth Department of Neurology, Beidahuang Group General Hospital, Harbin 
City, 150088, China.

BACKGROUND: This study aims to investigate the specific mechanism by which 
caspase-8 regulates pyroptosis through Gasdermin E (GSDME) in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). By analyzing the expression level of caspase-8 in AD pathology and 
its impact on pyroptosis and neuroinflammation, we aim to elucidate the role of 
caspase-8 as a potential therapeutic target and provide new insights into the 
pathological research and treatment strategies for AD.
METHODS: We utilized GEO2R to analyze the GSE48350 and GSE118553 datasets, 
identifying differential genes in AD and exploring the pathways involved through 
GO and KEGG enrichment analyses. The expression patterns of caspase-8 in 
different tissues and cells were analyzed using the HPA and UCSF databases. 
RT-qPCR and Western blot techniques were employed to detect the expression of 
caspase-8 and caspase-3 in AD cellular models. By knocking down caspase-8 and 
caspase-3, we observed their effects on the expression of pyroptosis-related 
proteins and inflammatory cytokines.
RESULTS: This study is the first to systematically reveal that caspase-8 is 
significantly upregulated in AD and induces pyroptosis by activating caspase-3, 
which mediates GSDME cleavage. In AD cellular models, knockdown of caspase-8 
resulted in significant reductions in pyroptosis and cell death. Moreover, 
knockdown of caspase-3 significantly decreased the cleavage of GSDME and the 
expression of inflammatory cytokines IL-1β and IL-18.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that caspase-8 is significantly upregulated 
in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and exacerbates neuroinflammation and cell death 
through the activation of caspase-3 and Gasdermin E (GSDME)-dependent 
pyroptosis. Inhibition of caspase-8 effectively alleviates AD pathological 
changes, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2025.114594
PMID: 40334809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


32. Cell Genom. 2025 May 14;5(5):100874. doi: 10.1016/j.xgen.2025.100874. Epub
2025  May 6.

Ribonuclease activity undermines immune sensing of naked extracellular RNA.

Castellano M(1), Blanco V(2), Li Calzi M(2), Costa B(3), Witwer K(4), Hill M(5), 
Cayota A(6), Segovia M(7), Tosar JP(8).

Author information:
(1)Functional Genomics Laboratory, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Montevideo 
11400, Uruguay; Immunoregulation and Inflammation Laboratory, Institut Pasteur 
de Montevideo, Montevideo 11400, Uruguay; Analytical Biochemistry Unit, School 
of Science, Universidad de la República, Montevideo 11400, Uruguay.
(2)Functional Genomics Laboratory, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Montevideo 
11400, Uruguay.
(3)Functional Genomics Laboratory, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Montevideo 
11400, Uruguay; Analytical Biochemistry Unit, School of Science, Universidad de 
la República, Montevideo 11400, Uruguay.
(4)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; EV Core Facility 
"EXCEL," Institute for Basic Biomedical Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; The Richman Family Precision 
Medicine Center of Excellence in Alzheimer's Disease, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
(5)Immunoregulation and Inflammation Laboratory, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, 
Montevideo 11400, Uruguay; Academic Unit of Immunobiology, School of Medicine, 
Universidad de la República, Montevideo 11800, Uruguay.
(6)Functional Genomics Laboratory, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Montevideo 
11400, Uruguay; Hospital de Clínicas, Universidad de la República, Montevideo 
11600, Uruguay.
(7)Immunoregulation and Inflammation Laboratory, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, 
Montevideo 11400, Uruguay; Academic Unit of Immunobiology, School of Medicine, 
Universidad de la República, Montevideo 11800, Uruguay. Electronic address: 
msegovia@pasteur.edu.uy.
(8)Functional Genomics Laboratory, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Montevideo 
11400, Uruguay; Analytical Biochemistry Unit, School of Science, Universidad de 
la República, Montevideo 11400, Uruguay. Electronic address: 
jptosar@pasteur.edu.uy.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Apr 23:2024.04.23.590771. doi: 10.1101/2024.04.23.590771.

Cell membranes are thought of as barriers to extracellular RNA (exRNA) uptake. 
While naked exRNAs can be spontaneously internalized by certain cells, 
functional cytosolic delivery has been rarely observed. Here, we show that 
extracellular ribonucleases (RNases)-primarily from cell culture 
supplements-have obscured the study of exRNA functionality. When ribonuclease 
inhibitor (RI) is added to cell cultures, naked exRNAs can trigger 
pro-inflammatory responses in dendritic cells and macrophages, largely via 
endosomal Toll-like receptors (TLRs). Moreover, naked exRNAs can escape 
endosomes, engaging cytosolic RNA sensors. In addition, naked extracellular 
mRNAs can be spontaneously internalized and translated by various cell types in 
an RI-dependent manner. In vivo, RI co-injection amplifies naked-RNA-induced 
activation of splenic lymphocytes and myeloid leukocytes. Furthermore, naked RNA 
is inherently pro-inflammatory in RNase-poor compartments like the peritoneal 
cavity. These findings demonstrate that naked RNA is bioactive without requiring 
vesicular encapsulation, making a case for nonvesicular-exRNA-mediated 
intercellular communication.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xgen.2025.100874
PMCID: PMC12143340
PMID: 40334662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests J.P.T., M.S., M.H., and 
A.C. are members of the Sistema Nacional de Investigadores (SNI) and Programa de 
Desarrollo de las Ciencias Básicas (PEDECIBA, MEC-UdelaR). K.W. has a sponsored 
research agreement with Ionis Pharmaceuticals; is or has been an advisory board 
member of ShiftBio, Exopharm, NeuroDex, NovaDip, and ReNeuron; and performs ad 
hoc consulting as Kenneth Witwer Consulting. J.P.T. is a founder of B4-RNA, a 
startup involved in exRNA-based diagnosis. J.P.T., B.C., A.C., and K.W. have 
filed patents on RNA repair and sequencing for biomarker/diagnostic 
applications. After submitting the initial version of this manuscript, J.P.T. 
was contacted and later became a member of the advisory board of Resolve 
Therapeutics, a company employing synthetic RNases to treat human diseases. This 
company had no involvement in this study.


33. Phytomedicine. 2025 Jul;142:156608. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156608. Epub
2025  Mar 3.

Dual targeting of FSP1 and xCT: Potential mechanism of anthocyanins in 
alleviating neuronal ferroptosis in vascular dementia.

Tan H(1), Fu X(1), Yang R(1), Tang J(1), Zeng S(1), Liu Z(1), Zhu X(2), Zhang 
X(3), Xie L(4), Wu D(5).

Author information:
(1)Hunan Provincial Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western, 
Institute of Innovation and Applied Research, School of Integrated Chinese and 
Western Medicine, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital of Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, 
Changsha, Hunan, China.
(3)Hunan Provincial Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western, 
Institute of Innovation and Applied Research, School of Integrated Chinese and 
Western Medicine, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
Electronic address: shxxzhzhxl.9803@163.com.
(4)Hunan Provincial Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western, 
Institute of Innovation and Applied Research, School of Integrated Chinese and 
Western Medicine, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
Electronic address: 1289398706@qq.com.
(5)Hunan Provincial Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western, 
Institute of Innovation and Applied Research, School of Integrated Chinese and 
Western Medicine, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
Electronic address: 89304935@qq.com.

BACKGROUND: VaD, the second most prevalent type of dementia in the elderly 
following Alzheimer's disease, is marked by significant cognitive and motor 
deficits, with few effective treatment options currently available. Ferroptosis, 
a type of regulated cell death driven by iron-mediated lipid peroxidation, has 
recently emerged as a key pathological mechanism in the development of VaD. 
Ferroptosis drives neuronal damage in VaD, making it a promising therapeutic 
target to reduce neuronal death and preserve cognitive function. ACN, a group of 
polyphenolic compounds recognized for their strong antioxidant properties, have 
demonstrated potential in reducing ferroptosis and alleviating neuronal damage.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore the neuroprotective effects of 
ACN in reducing ferroptosis and mitigating cognitive impairments associated with 
VaD, focusing on the dual modulation of the FSP1 and xCT/GPX4 pathways. This 
novel dual-target approach provides an innovative strategy to reduce neuronal 
damage and oxidative stress in VaD.
METHODS: A combination of in vitro and in vivo experiments was conducted to 
assess the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of ACN in mitigating 
ferroptosis associated with VaD. In vitro, a neurotoxicity model was established 
by inducing PC12 cells with Glu. Cell viability was determined using the CCK-8 
assay, and various markers, including ROS levels, MDA, LPO, and GSH levels, were 
measured to evaluate the protective effects of ACN. Additionally, the expression 
of ferroptosis-related proteins, such as FSP1, xCT, and GPX4, was analyzed 
through Western blotting, RT-qPCR, and immunofluorescence. In vivo, a VaD rat 
model was established by performing bilateral common carotid artery occlusion 
(2-VO). The rats were divided into four groups: control, model, ACN-treated 
(with varying doses), and ALA-treated (positive control). The intervention 
lasted for 28 days. Cognitive functions were assessed using the Morris water 
maze and novel object recognition tests. Histological analyses, including HE 
staining and Nissl staining, were carried out to examine neuronal pathology. 
Moreover, electron microscopy was employed to evaluate mitochondrial 
ultrastructure integrity. Brain levels of iron, lipid peroxidation markers, and 
the expression of FSP1, xCT, and GPX4 were measured to elucidate the molecular 
mechanisms underlying the observed effects.
RESULTS: Systematic in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated the 
significant neuroprotective effects of ACN against ferroptosis associated with 
VaD. In the Glu-induced PC12 cell model, ACN significantly improved cell 
viability, reduced ROS levels, restored GSH levels, and decreased the 
accumulation of MDA and LPO. Notably, ACN upregulated the expression of key 
ferroptosis-suppressing proteins, FSP1, xCT, and GPX4, through dual activation 
of these pathways, highlighting its powerful protective role against oxidative 
stress and ferroptosis. In the 2-VO VaD rat model, high-dose ACN significantly 
improved cognitive function, as shown by reduced escape latency in the Morris 
water maze and increased platform crossings. Moreover, ACN treatment enhanced 
the discrimination index in the novel object recognition test, suggesting 
improved learning and memory. Histopathological analyses revealed that ACN 
significantly alleviated neuronal disorganization, increased Nissl body counts, 
and restored mitochondrial integrity, with reduced swelling, rupture, and 
vacuolation observed under electron microscopy.
CONCLUSION: ACN exerts significant neuroprotective effects in VaD by dual 
regulation of the FSP1 and xCT/GPX4 pathways, effectively inhibiting ferroptosis 
and alleviating oxidative stress. This "dual-target" mechanism not only expands 
the current understanding of ACN's neuroprotective effects but also emphasizes 
its unique role in inhibiting ferroptosis. Overall, this study provides 
experimental evidence supporting the potential use of ACN in treating 
ferroptosis-related neurodegenerative diseases and highlights its promising 
prospects for clinical application.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156608
PMID: 40334339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest related to this study. All the 
research presented in this manuscript was conducted independently, and no 
financial, professional, or personal relationships could be perceived to 
influence the results or interpretations.


34. Molecules. 2025 Apr 17;30(8):1812. doi: 10.3390/molecules30081812.

Role of Saponins from Platycodon grandiflorum in Alzheimer's Disease: DFT, 
Molecular Docking, and Simulation Studies in Key Enzymes.

Moussa AY(1), Alanzi AR(2), Luo J(3), Wang J(3), Cheang WS(4), Xu B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams University, 
Abbassia, Cairo 11566, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, 
Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Food Science and Technology Program, Department of Life Sciences, Beijing 
Normal-Hong Kong Baptist University, Zhuhai 519087, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Macao SAR, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), one of the neurodegenerative disorders, afflicts 
negatively across the whole world. Due to its complex etiology, no available 
treatments are disease-altering. This study aimed to explore isolated saponins 
profiles from Platycodon grandiflorum in the binding pockets of six target 
proteins of AD using computational and quantum chemistry simulations. Initially, 
saponin compounds were docked to AD enzymes, such as GSK-3β and synapsin I, II, 
and III. The subsequent research from MD simulations of the best three docked 
compounds (polygalacin D2, polygalacin D, and platycodin D) suggested that their 
profiles match with the binding of standard active drugs like ifenprodil and 
donepezil to the six enzymes. Moreover, analyzing DFT quantum calculations of 
top-scoring compounds fully unravels their electronic and quantum properties and 
potential in anti-AD. The subtle differences between polygalacin D and D2, and 
platycodin D, were studied at the level of theory DFT/B3LYP, showing that the 
electron-donating effect of the hydroxy ethyl group in platycodin D rendering 
this compound of moderate electrophilicity and reactivity. Polygalacin D2 
diglucoside substituent in position-2 contributed to its best binding and 
intermolecular interactions more than polygalacin D and prosapogenin D, which 
acted as the negative decoy drug.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30081812
PMCID: PMC12029169
PMID: 40333841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


35. Molecules. 2025 Apr 13;30(8):1736. doi: 10.3390/molecules30081736.

Co-Deposited Proteins in Alzheimer's Disease as a Potential Treasure Trove for 
Drug Repurposing.

Apostolakou AE(1), Douska DE(1), Litou ZI(1), Trougakos IP(1), Iconomidou VA(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Cell Biology and Biophysics, Department of Biology, School of 
Science, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Panepistimiopolis, 157 
01 Athens, Greece.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects an increasing number of people as the human 
population ages. The main pathological feature of AD, amyloid plaques, consists 
of the key protein amyloid-β and other co-deposited proteins. These co-deposited 
proteins and their protein interactors could hold some additional functional 
insights into AD pathophysiology. For this work, proteins found on amyloid 
plaques were collected from the AmyCo database. A protein-protein and 
protein-drug interaction network was constructed with data from the IntAct and 
DrugBank databases, respectively. In total, there were 12 proteins co-deposited 
on amyloid plaques that reportedly interact with 513 other proteins and are 
targets of 72 drugs. These drugs were shown to be almost entirely distinct from 
the panel of drugs currently approved by the FDA for AD and their corresponding 
protein targets. In conclusion, this work demonstrates the potential for drug 
repurposing of drugs that target proteins found in amyloid plaques.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30081736
PMCID: PMC12029215
PMID: 40333680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


36. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 21;26(8):3905. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083905.

Recent Advances in Drug Development for Alzheimer's Disease: A Comprehensive 
Review.

Xing H(1), Yue S(1), Qin R(1), Du X(1), Wu Y(2), Zhangsun D(1)(3), Luo S(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Guangxi Key Laboratory of Special Biomedicine, School of Medicine, Guangxi 
University, Nanning 530004, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang Province, Wenzhou Key 
Laboratory of Basic and Translational Research for Mental Disorders, Zhejiang 
Provincial Clinical Research Center for Mental Health, School of Mental Health, 
Institute of Aging, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325000, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education, 
Hainan University, Haikou 570228, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized 
by cognitive impairments such as memory loss and executive dysfunction. The 
primary pathological features of AD include the deposition of amyloid-beta (Aβ) 
plaques, the hyperphosphorylation of tau proteins leading to neurofibrillary 
tangles, disruptions of neuronal and synaptic functions, and chronic 
inflammatory responses. These multifactorial interactions drive disease 
progression. To date, various therapeutic agents targeting these pathological 
mechanisms have been developed. This article provides a comprehensive review of 
the pathogenesis of AD, recent advances in drug development targeting different 
pathways, current challenges, and future directions, aiming to offer valuable 
insights for clinical treatment and research.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083905
PMCID: PMC12028297
PMID: 40332804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declare that they have no 
conflicts of interest.


37. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 21;26(8):3915. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083915.

A Review of the Neuroprotective Properties of Exosomes Derived from Stem Cells 
and Exosome-Coated Nanoparticles for Treating Neurodegenerative Diseases and 
Stroke.

Yang YP(1)(2), Nicol CJB(3), Chiang MC(4).

Author information:
(1)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, Miller School of Medicine, University 
of Miami, Miami, FL 33136, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Miller School of Medicine, 
University of Miami, Miami, FL 33136, USA.
(3)Departments of Pathology & Molecular Medicine and Biomedical & Molecular 
Sciences, and Cancer Biology and Genetics Division, Sinclair Cancer Research 
Institute, Queen's University, Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, Canada.
(4)Department of Life Science, College of Science and Engineering, Fu Jen 
Catholic University, New Taipei City 242, Taiwan.

Neurological diseases, including neurodegenerative disorders and stroke, 
represent significant medical challenges due to their complexity and the 
limitations of current treatment approaches. This review explores the potential 
of stem cell (SC)-derived exosomes (Exos) as a transformative therapeutic 
strategy for these diseases. Exos, especially those derived from SCs, exhibit 
natural targeting ability, biocompatibility, and the capacity to cross the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB), making them ideal vehicles for drug delivery. This 
review provides an in-depth discussion of the properties and advantages of 
SC-Exos. It highlights their potential synergistic benefits in therapeutic 
approaches to treat neurological diseases. This article discusses the mechanisms 
of action of SC-Exos, highlighting their ability to target specific cells, 
modulate disease pathways, and provide controlled release of therapeutic agents. 
Applications in specific neurological disorders have been investigated, 
demonstrating the potential to improve outcomes in conditions such as 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Parkinson's Disease (PD), and stroke. Moreover, 
Exos-coated nanoparticles (NPs) combine the natural properties of Exos with the 
multifunctionality of NPs. This integration takes advantage of exosome membrane 
biocompatibility and targeting capabilities while preserving NPs' beneficial 
features, such as drug loading and controlled release. As a result, Exos-coated 
NPs may enhance the precision, efficacy, and safety of therapeutic 
interventions. In conclusion, SC-Exos represent a promising and innovative 
approach to treating neurological diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083915
PMCID: PMC12028030
PMID: 40332773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


38. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 20;26(8):3900. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083900.

Cremastra appendiculata Polysaccharides Alleviate Neurodegenerative Diseases in 
Caenorhabditis elegans: Targeting Amyloid-β Toxicity, Tau Toxicity and Oxidative 
Stress.

Xu H(1)(2), Wang Q(2), Zhou Y(2), Chen H(2), Tao J(2), Huang J(2), Miao Y(2), 
Zhao J(1)(2), Wang Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Land Resources Evaluation and Monitoring in Southwest, 
Ministry of Education, Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu 610101, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu 610101, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by oxidative stress, amyloid-beta (Aβ) 
deposition, and tau hyperphosphorylation. While polysaccharides have 
demonstrated anti-AD effects, the properties of Cremastra appendiculata 
polysaccharides (CAPs) remain underexplored. This study evaluates the 
physicochemical properties, antioxidant activity, anti-AD effects, and 
underlying mechanisms of CAP in vitro and in Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) 
AD models. CAP, containing 22.37% uronic acid, is stable below 270 °C and adopts 
a triple helix structure. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) reveals an 
irregular layered architecture. In vitro, CAP exhibits significant antioxidant 
activity, protecting PC12 cells from Aβ-induced cytotoxicity. In C. elegans, CAP 
extends the lifespan in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting 
growth, alleviating tau-induced locomotor defects, reducing Aβ-induced paralysis 
and serotonin hypersensitivity, and decreasing Aβ deposition by 79.96% at 2.0 
mg/mL. CAP enhances antioxidant capacity and heat resistance by reducing 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and increasing glutathione S-transferase 4 
(GST-4) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities. Additionally, CAP 
upregulates key genes in the insulin/insulin-like growth factor signaling 
pathway, including daf-16 and skn-1, along with their downstream targets (sod-3, 
ctl-1, gst-4, hsp-70). These findings suggest that CAP has potent antioxidant 
and anti-AD effects, alleviating Aβ- and tau-induced toxicity, and may serve as 
a promising therapeutic agent for Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083900
PMCID: PMC12027758
PMID: 40332756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


39. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 19;26(8):3880. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083880.

New Frontiers in Multiple Sclerosis Treatment: From Targeting Costimulatory 
Molecules to Bispecific Antibodies.

Reidy M(1), Khan M(1), Mills EA(2), Wu Q(3), Garton J(1), Draayer DE(1), Zahoor 
I(4), Giri S(4), Axtell RC(1), Mao-Draayer Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Autoimmunity Center of Excellence, Multiple Sclerosis Center of Excellence, 
Arthritis and Clinical Immunology Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research 
Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA.
(2)Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation, 57 West 57th Street, Suite 904, New 
York, NY 10019, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Henry Ford Health, Detroit, MI 48202, USA.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central 
nervous system. The therapeutic landscape for MS has evolved significantly since 
the 1990s, with the development of more than 20 different disease-modifying 
therapies (DMTs). These therapies effectively manage relapses and inflammation, 
but most have failed to meaningfully prevent disease progression. While 
classically understood as a T cell-mediated condition, the most effective DMTs 
in slowing progression also target B cells. Novel classes of MS therapies in 
development, including anti-CD40L monoclonal antibodies, CD19 chimeric antigen 
receptor (CAR) T cells, and Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitors show 
greater capacity to target and eliminate B cells in the brain/CNS, as well as 
impacting T-cell and innate immune compartments. These approaches may help 
tackle the disease at its immunopathological core, addressing both peripheral 
and central immune responses that drive MS progression. Another emerging 
therapeutic strategy is to use bispecific antibodies, which have the potential 
for dual-targeting various disease aspects such as immune activation and 
neurodegeneration. As such, the next generation of MS therapies may be the first 
to reduce both inflammatory demyelination and disease progression in a 
clinically meaningful way. Their ability to target specific immune cell 
populations while minimizing broad immune suppression could also lead to better 
safety profiles. Here, we explore the biological rationale, advantages, 
limitations, and clinical progress of these emerging immunotherapies for 
relapsing-remitting and progressive forms of MS.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083880
PMCID: PMC12028294
PMID: 40332536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.R., M.K., E.A.M., Q.W., J.G., D.E.D., I.Z., 
and S.G. declare no conflict of interest. R.C.A. has served as a consultant for 
Progentec Diagnostics. Y.M.-D. has served as a consultant and/or received grant 
support from Acorda, Bayer Pharmaceutical, Biogen Idec, EMD Serono, 
Sanofi-Genzyme, Roche-Genentech, Janssen, Novartis, Questor, TG Therapeutics, 
Horizon, and Teva Neuroscience.


40. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 17;26(8):3781. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083781.

Structural Bioinformatics Applied to Acetylcholinesterase Enzyme Inhibition.

Reynoso-García MF(1), Nicolás-Álvarez DE(2), Tenorio-Barajas AY(3), 
Reyes-Chaparro A(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Morfología, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biológicas, 
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Unidad Profesional Lázaro Cárdenas, Prolongación 
de Carpio y Plan de Ayala s/n, Col. Santo Tomás, Alcaldía Miguel Hidalgo, Mexico 
City 11340, Mexico.
(2)Departamento de Fisiología, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biológicas, 
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Av. Wilfrido Massieu S/N, Unidad Profesional 
Adolfo López Mateos, Mexico City 07738, Mexico.
(3)Laboratorio de Nanobiotecnologia, Facultad de Ciencias Físico Matemáticas, 
Benemerita Universidad de Puebla, Av. San Cladio y 18 Sur, Col. San Manuel, 
Edif. FM6-108, Ciudad Universitaria, Puebla 72570, Mexico.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is a critical enzyme involved in neurotransmission 
by hydrolyzing acetylcholine at the synaptic cleft, making it a key target for 
drug discovery, particularly in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders 
such as Alzheimer's disease. Computational approaches, particularly molecular 
docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, have become indispensable tools 
for identifying and optimizing AChE inhibitors by predicting ligand-binding 
affinities, interaction mechanisms, and conformational dynamics. This review 
serves as a comprehensive guide for future research on AChE using molecular 
docking and MD simulations. It compiles and analyzes studies conducted over the 
past five years, providing a critical evaluation of the most widely used 
computational tools, including AutoDock, AutoDock Vina, and GROMACS, which have 
significantly contributed to the advancement of AChE inhibitor screening. 
Furthermore, we identify PDB ID: 4EY7, the most frequently used AChE crystal 
structure in docking studies, and highlight Donepezil, a well-established 
reference molecule widely employed as a control in computational screening for 
novel inhibitors. By examining these key aspects, this review aims to enhance 
the accuracy and reliability of virtual screening approaches and guide 
researchers in selecting the most appropriate computational methodologies. The 
integration of docking and MD simulations not only improves hit identification 
and lead optimization but also provides deeper mechanistic insights into 
AChE-ligand interactions, contributing to the rational design of more effective 
AChE inhibitors.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083781
PMCID: PMC12028328
PMID: 40332446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


41. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 16;26(8):3759. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083759.

Ionic and Non-Ionic Counterparts Based on Bis(Uracilyl)Alkane Moiety with 
Highest Selectivity Towards Acetylcholinesterase for Protection Against 
Organophosphate Poisoning and Treating Alzheimer's Disease.

Zueva IV(1), Saifina LF(1), Gubaidullina LM(1), Shulaeva MM(1), Kharlamova 
AD(1), Lenina OA(1), Belyaev GP(1), Ziganshina AY(1), Gao S(2), Tang W(2), 
Semenov VE(1), Petrov KA(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Arbuzov Institute of Organic and Physical Chemistry, FRC Kazan Scientific 
Center of RAS Arbuzov str., 8, Kazan 420088, Russia.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230032, China.
(3)Graduate School of Biology, Institute of Fundamental Medicine and Biology, 
Kazan Federal University, 18 Kremlyovskaya str, Kazan 420008, Russia.

A series of bisuracils, in which uracil and 3,6-dimethyluracil moieties were 
bridged with a polymethylene spacer, and the uracil moiety contained a 
pentamethylene radical with ionic and non-ionic aminobenzyl groups, were 
synthesised. These bisuracils have been identified as cholinesterase inhibitors 
with exceptional selectivity for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) over 
butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE). These bisuracils, which have been identified as 
highly effective AChE inhibitors, demonstrated activity at nano- and 
sub-nanomolar concentrations, with exceptional selectivity for AChE over BuChE. 
In kinetic studies of lead bisuracils 2b and 3c, both compounds exhibited 
mixed-type inhibition against AChE and BuChE. Additionally, molecular dynamic 
simulations demonstrated robust and stable interactions of 2b and 3c with the 
binding sites of their target. Bisuracil 2b showed significant potential for 
protection of AChE from irreversible inhibition by paraoxon; the most effective 
dose of 0.01 mg/kg was shown to reduce mortality in paraoxon-poisoned mice. 
Bisuracil 3c effectively inhibited brain AChE activity, reversing 
scopolamine-induced amnesia in mice at a dose of 5 mg/kg, which indicates its 
potential for cognitive enhancement. These findings position ionic bisuracils as 
promising prophylactics against organophosphate poisoning and non-ionic 
bisuracils as viable candidates for Alzheimer's disease therapeutics.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083759
PMCID: PMC12027946
PMID: 40332440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


42. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 16;26(8):3774. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083774.

Current Development of iPSC-Based Modeling in Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Guo X(1), Wang X(1), Wang J(1), Ma M(1)(2), Ren Q(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang 050017, 
China.
(2)Human Brain Bank, Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang 050017, China.
(3)The Key Laboratory of Neural and Vascular Biology, Ministry of Education, 
Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang 050017, China.
(4)Hebei Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Disease Mechanism, Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang 050017, China.

Over the past two decades, significant advancements have been made in the 
induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology. These developments have enabled 
the broader application of iPSCs in neuroscience, improved our understanding of 
disease pathogenesis, and advanced the investigation of therapeutic targets and 
methods. Specifically, optimizations in reprogramming protocols, coupled with 
improved neuronal differentiation and maturation techniques, have greatly 
facilitated the generation of iPSC-derived neural cells. The integration of the 
cerebral organoid technology and CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing has further 
propelled the application of iPSCs in neurodegenerative diseases to a new stage. 
Patient-derived or CRISPR-edited cerebral neurons and organoids now serve as 
ideal disease models, contributing to our understanding of disease 
pathophysiology and identifying novel therapeutic targets and candidates. In 
this review, we examine the development of iPSC-based models in 
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
and Huntington's disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083774
PMCID: PMC12027653
PMID: 40332425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


43. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 16;26(8):3756. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083756.

Combination of Epigallocatechin-3-Gallate and Tramiprosate Prevent Accumulation 
of Intracellular Aβ and Dysfunctional Autophagy-Lysosomal Pathway at Earliest 
Stage of Transdifferentiation of Mesenchymal Stromal Cells into PSEN1 E280A 
Cholinergic-like Neurons.

Soto-Mercado V(1), Mendivil-Perez M(2), Jimenez-Del-Rio M(1), Velez-Pardo C(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Research Group, Institute of Medical Research, Faculty of 
Medicine, University Research Headquarters, Calle 62#52-59, Building 1, 
Laboratory 411/412, Medellin 050010, Colombia.
(2)Neuroscience Research Group, Faculty of Nursing, University Research 
Headquarters, Calle 62#52-59, Building 1, Laboratory 411/412, Medellin 050010, 
Colombia.

Familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) caused by presenilin 1 (PSEN1) E280A induces 
the aberrant accumulation of intracellular Aβ (iAβ) in cholinergic-like neurons 
(ChLNs). How early iAβ accumulates in the development of ChLNs is still unknown. 
Consequently, the timing of appropriate therapeutic approaches against FAD is 
unclear. To determine the earliest iAβ in PSEN1 E280A ChLNs, flow cytometry and 
immunofluorescence microscopy were used to follow the development of menstrual 
mesenchymal stromal cells (MenSCs) into ChLNs (proliferation marker Ki67, 
cluster of differentiation 73 (CD73), neuronal nuclei (NeuN) marker, choline 
acetyl transferase (ChAT)), the kinetics of iAβ accumulation, and the 
simultaneous evaluation of other associated markers (e.g., DJ-1C106-SO3; 
lysosomes; phosphatidylethanolamine-conjugated microtubule-associated protein 
1A/1B light chain 3, LC3-II; cleaved caspase 3 (CC3)) at 0, 1, 3, 5, and 7 days. 
To reverse the PSEN1 E280A phenotype, we used rapamycin (RAP), verubecestat 
(VER), compound E (CE), epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), and tramiprosate (TM) 
in WT and mutant ChLNs. We found that PSEN1 E280A did not induce significant 
differences in the NeuN marker and ChAT in MenSCs transitioning to ChLNs. The 
iAβ accumulates at the earliest cholinergic developmental stage from day 0 (18%, 
at MenSCs stage) to day 7 (46%, at ChLNs stage), i.e., iAβ increased +156% in 
mutant compared to WT cells (1-6%). A significant increase in DJ-1C106-SO3 
occurs only at day 7 (+250%). While neither CC3 (0-1%) nor lysosomes were 
different between WT and mutant cells at any time point, a stepwise increase in 
autophagosome accumulation was observed from day 3 (15%) to day 7 (79%), i.e., 
+427%, in mutant cells. While neither RAP, VER, nor CE was able to completely 
reduce all PSEN1 E280A-induced markers in ChLNs, the combination of EGCG and TM 
was more effective in removing these markers than EGCG and TM alone in PSEN1 
E280A ChLNs. Given that this investigation is based on a single menstrual blood 
sample from WT and PSEN1 E280A, our results should be considered exploratory. 
Larger sample sizes are needed.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083756
PMCID: PMC12027828
PMID: 40332390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


44. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 14;26(8):3715. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083715.

Acanthopanax Senticosus Saponins Prevent Cognitive Decline in Rats with 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Cui XM(1), Wang W(1), Yang L(1), Nie BW(1), Liu Q(1), Li XH(1), Duan DX(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive degenerative disease of the nervous 
system that affects older adults. Its main clinical manifestations include 
memory loss, cognitive dysfunction, abnormal behaviour, and social dysfunction. 
Neuroinflammation is typical in most neurodegenerative diseases, such as AD. 
Therefore, suppressing inflammation may improve AD symptoms. This study 
investigated the neuroprotective effects of Acanthopanax senticosus saponins 
(ASS) in an AD model induced by streptozotocin (STZ). Here, we characterised a 
rat model of STZ-induced AD with the parallel deterioration of memory loss and 
neuroinflammation. Following the end of the treatment with ASS (50 mg/kg for 14 
consecutive days), behavioural tests (Morris water maze test, Y-maze test) were 
performed on the rat, and the molecular parameters (DAPK1, Tau5, p-Tau, NF-κB, 
IL-1β, TNF-α, and NLRP3) of the rat hippocampus were also assessed. We 
demonstrated that ASS, which has potent anti-inflammatory effects, can reduce 
neuroinflammation and prevent cognitive impairment. In the water maze test, 
ASS-treated groups exhibited significantly increased average escape latency (p < 
0.05), the percentage of stay in the target quadrant (p < 0.05), and the number 
of times each group of rats crossed the platform (p < 0.05) compared to the 
negative control. And ASS could reduce the phosphorylation of the Tau protein (p 
< 0.001) and death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1, p < 0.001) in the 
hippocampal tissue, improving cognitive impairment in STZ-treated rats by 
suppressing the inflammatory response; the molecular analysis showed a 
significant reduction in pro-inflammatory markers like NLRP3, IL-1β, TNF-α, and 
NF-κB (p < 0.001). It was also discovered that the NF-κB inhibitor SN50 had the 
same effect. Therefore, the present study used ASS through its anti-inflammatory 
effects to prevent and treat AD. This study highlights the potential efficacy of 
ASS in alleviating cognitive dysfunction in AD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083715
PMCID: PMC12027677
PMID: 40332373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


45. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 16;26(8):3746. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083746.

Aging-Associated Amyloid-β Plaques and Neuroinflammation in Bottlenose Dolphins 
(Tursiops truncatus) and Novel Cognitive Health-Supporting Roles of 
Pentadecanoic Acid (C15:0).

Venn-Watson S(1)(2), Jensen ED(3).

Author information:
(1)Epitracker, Inc., San Diego, CA 92106, USA.
(2)Seraphina Therapeutics, Inc., San Diego, CA 92106, USA.
(3)U.S. Navy Marine Mammal Program, San Diego, CA 92152, USA.

There is an urgent need to identify interventions that broadly target 
aging-related cognitive decline and progression to Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) have histologic changes similar to AD 
in humans, and they also develop shared age-associated co-morbidities identified 
as risk factors for AD in humans, including type 2 diabetes, ferroptosis, and 
iron overload, which can be driven by nutritional C15:0 deficiency. We 
hypothesized that (1) dolphins would have amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques and 
neuroinflammation that paralleled that of humans in relation to age-related 
progression, quantitative concentration, and brain region; and (2) C15:0 would 
have dose-dependent activities relevant to protecting cognitive health. 
Quantitative immunohistochemistry staining was used to assess 68 tissues from 
archived brains of 19 Navy dolphins to evaluate associations among amyloid beta 
(Aβ) plaques and neuroinflammation by brain region, sex, and age group. Further, 
dose-dependent C15:0 activities, using a third-party panel intended to screen 
for potential AD therapeutics, were evaluated. Similar to humans, dolphins had 
the highest Aβ plaque density variation in the hippocampus (90th percentile of 
4.95 plaques/mm2), where plaque density increased with age (p = 0.05). All 
measured markers of neuroinflammation were detected, including the highest 
concentrations of activated microglia (CD68+) in the hippocampus (0.46 ± 0.38 
cells/mm2). C15:0 was a dose-dependent inhibitor of two targets, fatty acid 
amide hydrolase (FAAH) (IC50 2.5 µM, 89% maximum inhibition at 50 µM relative to 
URB597) and monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) (IC50 19.4 µM, 70% maximum inhibition at 
50 µM relative to R(-)-Deprenyl). These activities have demonstrated efficacy 
against Aβ formation and neuroinflammation, including protection of cognitive 
function in the hippocampus. These findings suggest that, in addition to 
protecting against AD co-morbidities, C15:0 may play a distinct role in 
supporting cognitive health, especially at higher concentrations.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083746
PMCID: PMC12027839
PMID: 40332352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: S.V. is a co-founder of and employed by 
Epitracker, Inc. and Seraphina Therapeutics, Inc., which hold exclusive 
licensing rights from the U.S. Navy to commercialize odd-chain saturated fatty 
acids as human and animal health products. The funder of this study, the Office 
of Naval Research, had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, 
analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the 
decision to publish the results.


46. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 12;26(8):3666. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083666.

Multi-Omics Integration Analysis Revealed That miR-375-3p Is a Two-Sided Factor 
Regulating the Development and TUMORIGENESIS of Alzheimer's Disease.

Bao X(1), Zhang C(1), Ren Z(1), Wang Y(1), Zeng L(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Molecular Enzymology and Engineering of Ministry of 
Education, School of Life Science, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, China.

It has been reported that miR-375-3p plays a critical role in numerous diseases. 
To elucidate its biological function, particularly its differential expression 
and specific mechanisms of action in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and small cell 
lung cancer (SCLC), this study comprehensively explores the associations between 
the target genes of miR-375-3p and both AD and SCLC. The focus is specifically 
on its impact on disease progression and the remodeling of the tumor 
microenvironment. We utilized databases such as the miRNA TargetScanHuman 8.0 
database and the STRING database, to construct a protein-protein interaction 
(PPI) network for the classification and discrimination of the miR-375-3p gene, 
resulting in the identification of 14 intersecting target genes. Subsequently, 
two key genes, ASCL1 and CHD7, along with their associated genes, were further 
analyzed using Spearman correlation analysis. The identified key genes were then 
subjected to GO function annotation and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis. It was 
determined that pathways related to lipid metabolism, autophagy, and cell 
apoptosis were differentially expressed in the AD and SCLC environments, with 
nine related pathways identified, among which the PI3K pathway was the most 
prominent. Finally, we demonstrated that the expression of miR-375-3p 
significantly differed between the two environments, with higher expression 
levels observed in AD compared to SCLC. Our study confirmed that miR-375-3p can 
promote apoptosis, regulate lipid metabolism, influence the progression of 
neurodegenerative diseases, and inhibit the proliferation and metastasis of 
tumor cells. These research findings may have significant implications for the 
future treatment of AD and SCLC.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083666
PMCID: PMC12027480
PMID: 40332288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


47. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 12;26(8):3647. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083647.

Improved Synthesis of Effective 
3-(Indolin-6-yl)-4-(N-pyrazole-sulfonamide)-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridine-Based 
Inhibitors of NADPH Oxidase 2.

Potapov KV(1)(2), Platonov DN(2), Belyy AY(2), Novikov MA(1)(2), Tomilov YV(2), 
Anashkina AA(1), Mukhina KA(1), Kechko OI(1), Solyev PN(1), Novikov RA(1)(2), 
Makarov AA(1), Mitkevich VA(1).

Author information:
(1)Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology of the Russian Academy of Sciences, 
119991 Moscow, Russia.
(2)Zelinsky Institute of Organic Chemistry of the Russian Academy of Sciences, 
119991 Moscow, Russia.

NADPH oxidase enzymes (NOXs) are a family of enzymes generating superoxide, 
which form reactive oxygen species. NOX2 activity is a causative agent for the 
progression of many diseases: neurodegenerative, cardiovascular, immune 
dysregulations, and even hereditary diseases and cancer. Administering 
antioxidants helps in inhibiting NOX2 activity; however, the development of 
selective inhibitors may provide greater improvement in the therapy of diseases. 
Here, an optimized synthesis of two most promising NOX2 inhibitors based on the 
3-(indolin-6-yl)-4-(N-pyrazole-sulfonamide)-1H-pyrrolo [2,3-b]pyridine 
structure, namely, GSK2795039 and NCATS-SM7270, and an isomeric derivative of 
the same class, IMBIOC-1, is reported. The new modified procedures simplify the 
isolation, reduce byproduct formation, and improve the yields in 0.1-1 g scale 
preparations. Molecular modeling of the structures of NOX2 complexes with 
inhibitors validated their binding at the same site as NADPH, with IMBIOC-1 
forming the largest number of intermolecular interactions with the NOX2 active 
site. Testing the effects of the compounds on amyloid beta-induced oxidative 
stress and toxicity in HMC3 microglial cells showed that all three inhibitors 
completely prevented the pathological amyloid-beta effect. At the same time, 
NCATS-SM7270 and IMBIOC-1 provided a stronger protective effect on microglial 
cell survival than GSK2795039, which allowed us to assert the potential of those 
compounds as neuroprotective agents.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083647
PMCID: PMC12026636
PMID: 40332246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


48. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 12;26(8):3658. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083658.

Role of Antioxidants in Modulating the Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis and Their 
Impact on Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Kurhaluk N(1), Kamiński P(2)(3), Bilski R(4), Kołodziejska R(4), Woźniak A(4), 
Tkaczenko H(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biology, Pomeranian University in Słupsk, Arciszewski St. 22 B, 
76-200 Słupsk, Poland.
(2)Department of Medical Biology and Biochemistry, Division of Ecology and 
Environmental Protection, Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Nicolaus Copernicus 
University in Toruń, M. Skłodowska-Curie St. 9, 85-094 Bydgoszcz, Poland.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Biological Sciences, Faculty of 
Biological Sciences, University of Zielona Góra, Prof. Z. Szafran St. 1, 65-516 
Zielona Góra, Poland.
(4)Department of Medical Biology and Biochemistry, Collegium Medicum in 
Bydgoszcz, Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, M. Karłowicz St. 24, 85-092 
Bydgoszcz, Poland.

This narrative review presents the role of antioxidants in regulating the gut 
microbiota and the impact on the gut-brain axis, with a particular focus on 
neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease 
(PD). These diseases are characterised by cognitive decline, motor dysfunction, 
and neuroinflammation, all of which are significantly exacerbated by oxidative 
stress. This review elucidates the contribution of oxidative damage to disease 
progression and explores the potential of antioxidants to mitigate these 
pathological processes through modulation of the gut microbiota and associated 
pathways. Based on recent studies retrieved from reputable databases, including 
PubMed, Web of Science, and Scopus, this article outlines the mechanisms by 
which antioxidants influence gut health and exert neuroprotective effects. 
Specifically, it discusses how antioxidants, including polyphenols, vitamins, 
and flavonoids, contribute to the reduction in reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
production and neuroinflammation, thereby promoting neuronal survival and 
minimising oxidative damage in the brain. In addition, the article explores the 
role of antioxidants in modulating key molecular pathways involved in oxidative 
stress and neuroinflammation, such as the NF-κB, Nrf2, MAPK, and PI3K/AKT 
pathways, which regulate ROS generation, inflammatory cytokine expression, and 
antioxidant responses essential for maintaining cellular homeostasis in both the 
gut and the central nervous system. In addition, this review explores the 
complex relationship between gut-derived metabolites, oxidative stress, and 
neurodegenerative diseases, highlighting how dysbiosis-an imbalance in the gut 
microbiota-can exacerbate oxidative stress and contribute to neuroinflammation, 
thereby accelerating the progression of such diseases as AD and PD. The review 
also examines the role of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) produced by beneficial 
gut bacteria in modulating these pathways to attenuate neuroinflammation and 
oxidative damage. Furthermore, the article explores the therapeutic potential of 
microbiota-targeted interventions, including antioxidant delivery by probiotics 
and prebiotics, as innovative strategies to restore microbial homeostasis and 
support brain health. By synthesising current knowledge on the interplay between 
antioxidants, the gut-brain axis, and the molecular mechanisms underlying 
neurodegeneration, this review highlights the therapeutic promise of 
antioxidant-based interventions in mitigating oxidative stress and 
neurodegenerative disease progression. It also highlights the need for further 
research into antioxidant-rich dietary strategies and microbiota-focused 
therapies as promising avenues for the prevention and treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083658
PMCID: PMC12027284
PMID: 40332186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare.


49. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 9;26(8):3522. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083522.

Nanozymes: Innovative Therapeutics in the Battle Against Neurodegenerative 
Diseases.

Duță C(1), Dogaru CB(1), Muscurel C(1), Stoian I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
050474 Bucharest, Romania.

Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 
Huntington's disease (HD), represent a significant challenge to global health 
due to their progressive nature and the absence of curative treatments. These 
disorders are characterized by oxidative stress, protein misfolding, and 
neuroinflammation, which collectively contribute to neuronal damage and death. 
Recent advancements in nanotechnology have introduced nanozymes-engineered 
nanomaterials that mimic enzyme-like activities-as promising therapeutic agents. 
This review explores the multifaceted roles of nanozymes in combating oxidative 
stress and inflammation in neurodegenerative conditions. By harnessing their 
potent antioxidant properties, nanozymes can effectively scavenge reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) and restore redox balance, thereby protecting neuronal 
function. Their ability to modify surface properties enhances targeted delivery 
and biocompatibility, making them suitable for various biomedical applications. 
In this review, we highlight recent findings on the design, functionality, and 
therapeutic potential of nanozymes, emphasizing their dual role in addressing 
oxidative stress and pathological features such as protein aggregation. This 
synthesis of current research underscores the innovative potential of nanozymes 
as a proactive therapeutic strategy to halt disease progression and improve 
patient outcomes in neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083522
PMCID: PMC12026839
PMID: 40332015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


50. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Apr 8;26(8):3473. doi: 10.3390/ijms26083473.

Target Validation Studies of PS48, a PDK-1 Allosteric Agonist, for the Treatment 
of Alzheimer's Disease Phenotype in APP/PS1 Transgenic Mice.

Querfurth HW(1), Lemere C(2), Ciola J(2), Havas D(3), Xia W(4), Lee HK(5).

Author information:
(1)Tufts Medical Center, Department of Neurology and Tufts University School of 
Medicine, Department of Neuroscience, 800 Washington St., and 136 Harrison Ave., 
Boston, MA 02111, USA.
(2)Brigham and Women's Hospital, ARCND, 60 Fenwood Rd., Hale Bldg. for 
Transformative Medicine, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(3)Psychogenics Inc., 215 College Rd., Paramus, NJ 07652, USA.
(4)Chobanian and Avedisian School of Medicine, Department of Pharmacology, 
Physiology and Biophysics, Boston University, 72 E. Concord St., Boston, MA 
02118, USA.
(5)Tufts Medical Center, Department of Neurology, 800 Washington St., Boston, MA 
02111, USA.

The Alzheimer's disease (AD)-affected brain is known to be deficient in the 
utilization of glucose, its main energy substrate, and systemic diabetes is a 
significant risk factor for AD. In the course of biochemical and molecular 
investigations into this puzzling relationship, it has been shown that 
resistance to insulin action is a prominent feature of early stages of AD in the 
brain, thereby contributing to an energy failure state and a decline in synaptic 
function. In one AD-like cellular model, we found that β-amyloid (Aβ) 
accumulation inhibited insulin signaling and cell viability through an 
alteration of the PI3K/PDK-1/Akt signal pathway, an effect overcome by mTORC2 
stimulation. A PDK-1 allosteric agonist, PS48, as well as newly synthesized 
analogs, were also found to reverse the metabolic defects caused by 
intracellular Aβ42 accumulation. In vivo, we previously showed that oral dosing 
of PS48 significantly improves learning and memory in APP/PS1 transgenic mice. 
Herein, we present evidence using unbiased immunohistological quantification and 
Western blot analyses demonstrating that ingested PS48 crosses into brain tissue 
where it targeted Akt and GSK3-β activities. Beneficial effects on neuronal 
number and Tau phosphorylation were found. Not unexpectedly, Aβ levels remained 
unchanged. These results support a path toward a future therapeutic trial of 
this untested strategy and agent in humans.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26083473
PMCID: PMC12027031
PMID: 40331945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Daniel Havas is employed at Psychogenics (United 
States). The authors declare that this research was conducted in the absence of 
any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflicts of interest. The funders had no role in the design of this study; in 
the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of this 
manuscript; or in the decision to publish the results. HWQ is inventor on US 
patent No. 12,083,086 B2 issued 10 September 2024 covering Compositions and 
Methods for Treating Alzheimer’s Disease. The authors have no other competing 
interests or financial conflicts to declare.


51. Neurol Res. 2025 Aug;47(8):732-744. doi: 10.1080/01616412.2025.2499890. Epub 
2025 May 7.

Identification of Alzheimer's disease susceptibility genes by the integration of 
genomics and transcriptomics.

OuYang C(1), Shi H(2)(3), Lin Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiangxi Provincial People's Hospital, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Nanchang Medical College, Nanchang, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Jiangxi Medical College, Nanchang University, 
Nanchang, Jiangxi, China.
(3)Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory of Disease Prevention and Public Health, 
Nanchang University, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease. 
With the deepening of clinical and genomic research, a series of biomarkers and 
risk factors related to AD have been identified. However, the exact molecular 
mechanism of AD is not completely understood.
METHODS: By combining expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) analysis with 
the results of genome-wide association studies (GWAS), the candidate genes (CG) 
related to AD were screened out accurately. We identified that intersection 
genes of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and CG are the key genes. Then, 
GO, KEGG, and GSEA were utilized for functional enrichment analysis. Finally, we 
predicted AD responses to immunotherapy by the single sample gene set enrichment 
analysis (ssGSEA).
RESULTS: A total of 253 DEGs were identified. The three key genes (VASP, SURF2, 
and TARBP1) were identified by taking the intersection of DEGs and CG. Through 
Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis, it was found that the risk of AD was 
significantly increased when VASP expression increased (OR = 0.1.046), while the 
risk of AD was significantly decreased when SURF2 (OR = 0.897) and 
TARBP1(OR = 0.920) expression increased. Subsequently, the functional analysis 
indicated that the core genes were mainly enriched in Leukocyte Transendothelial 
Migration, cGMP-PKG signaling pathway, and Rap1 signaling pathway. Through 
ssGSEA analysis showed that all three core genes were significantly related to 
M2 macrophages.
CONCLUSIONS: Three core genes were screened by integrating eQTLs data, GWAS data 
and transfer group data, and the potential mechanism of diagnosis and treatment 
of AD was revealed.

DOI: 10.1080/01616412.2025.2499890
PMID: 40331660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Dela J Public Health. 2025 Apr 30;11(1):100-101. doi:
10.32481/djph.2025.04.16.  eCollection 2025 Apr.

Updates on Disease-Modifying Therapy for Alzheimer's Dementia: Options for 
Delawareans.

Huege S(1).

Author information:
(1)Swank Memory Center, ChristianaCare.

DOI: 10.32481/djph.2025.04.16
PMCID: PMC12051900
PMID: 40331185


53. Health Sci Rep. 2025 May 5;8(5):e70802. doi: 10.1002/hsr2.70802. eCollection 
2025 May.

Recent Advancements in Neuroimaging-Based Alzheimer's Disease Prediction Using 
Deep Learning Approaches in e-Health: A Systematic Review.

Zia-Ur-Rehman(1), Awang MK(1), Ali G(2), Faheem M(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Informatics and Computing (FIK) Universiti Sultan Zainal Abidin 
(UniSZA) Besut Terengganu Malaysia.
(2)Department of Computer Science University of Okara Okara Pakistan.
(3)School of Technology and Innovations University of Vaasa Vaasa Finland.
(4)VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland Espoo Finland.

PURPOSE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a severe neurological disease that 
significantly impairs brain function. Timely identification of AD is essential 
for appropriate treatment and care. This comprehensive review intends to examine 
current developments in deep learning (DL) approaches with neuroimaging for AD 
diagnosis, where popular imaging types, reviews well-known online accessible 
data sets, and describes different algorithms used in DL for the correct initial 
evaluation of AD are presented.
SIGNIFICANCE: Conventional diagnostic techniques, including medical evaluations 
and cognitive assessments, usually not identify the initial stages of 
Alzheimer's. Neuroimaging methods, when integrated with DL techniques, have 
demonstrated considerable potential in enhancing the diagnosis and 
categorization of AD. DL models have received significant interest due to their 
capability to identify AD in its early phases automatically, which reduces the 
mortality rate and treatment cost of AD.
METHOD: An extensive literature search was performed in leading scientific 
databases, concentrating on papers published from 2021 to 2025. Research 
leveraging DL models on different neuroimaging techniques such as magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography, and functional magnetic 
resonance imaging (fMRI), and so forth. The review complies with Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.
RESULTS: Current developments show that CNN-based techniques, especially those 
utilizing hybrid and transfer learning frameworks, outperform conventional DL 
methods. Research employing the combination of multimodal neuroimaging data has 
demonstrated enhanced diagnostic precision. Still, challenges such as method 
interpretability, data heterogeneity, and limited data exist as significant 
issues.
CONCLUSION: DL has considerably improved the accuracy and reliability of AD 
diagnosis with neuroimaging. Regardless of issues with data accessibility and 
adaptability, current studies into the interpretability of models and multimodal 
fusion provide potential for clinical application. Further research should 
concentrate on standardized data sets, rigorous validation architectures, and 
understandable AI methodologies to enhance the effectiveness of DL methods in AD 
prediction.

© 2025 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hsr2.70802
PMCID: PMC12051440
PMID: 40330773

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


54. Cyborg Bionic Syst. 2025 May 6;6:0262. doi: 10.34133/cbsystems.0262.
eCollection  2025.

Accelerated Molecular Transportation in the Brain Extracellular Space with 
755-nm Light Attenuates Post-Stroke Cognitive Impairment in Rats.

Yang L(1)(2), Gao Y(1)(2), Lopes LS(3)(4), Lian J(1)(2), Fu W(5)(6), Tan H(5), 
Yang S(7), Xie Z(5), Huang Y(5), Zhang J(8), Lu Y(5), Tang H(9), Xiong B(9), Wei 
X(5), Xie L(10), Peng Y(7), Liu X(5), Han H(1)(2)(5)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing 100191, 
China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Technology, Beijing 
100191, China.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, 
University of Bern, Bern 3010, Switzerland.
(4)Graduate School for Cellular and Biomedical Sciences, University of Bern, 
Bern 3012, Switzerland.
(5)Institute of Medical Technology, Peking University Health Science Center, 
Beijing 100191, China.
(6)Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, 
China.
(7)Department of Radiology, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, National Center for Children' Health, Beijing 100045, China.
(8)School of Biological Science and Medical Engineering, Beihang University, 
Beijing 100191, China.
(9)School of Computer Science, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(10)Chengde Medical University, Chengde, Hebei 067000, China.

Ischemic stroke exacts a heavy toll in death and disability worldwide. After 
ischemic stroke, the accumulation of pathobiomolecules in the brain 
extracellular space (ECS) will exacerbate neurological damage and cognitive 
impairment. Photobiomodulation (PBM) has been demonstrated to improve cognitive 
function in Alzheimer's disease mouse models by accelerating molecular 
transportation in the brain ECS. This suggests that PBM may have a potential 
role in the accumulation of pathobiomolecules in the brain ECS following 
ischemic stroke. In this study, we developed a PBM therapy apparatus with custom 
parameters. By evaluating the treatment effect, we identified that 755 nm was 
the optimal light wavelength for ischemic stroke in rats with transient middle 
cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion. Extracellular diffusion and interstitial 
fluid (ISF) drainage were measured using a tracer-based magnetic resonance 
imaging method. Our results showed that PBM accelerated molecular transportation 
in the brain ECS and ISF drainage, promoting the clearance of pro-inflammatory 
cytokines and reducing the deposition of pathological proteins. Consequently, 
the infarct volume decreased and neurological cognitive function was improved. 
Besides, the acceleration of ISF drainage was achieved by reducing expression 
and restoring polarization of aquaporin 4 (AQP4) in the peri-infarct area. In 
summary, we demonstrated that PBM could alleviate ischemia-reperfusion injury 
and prevent post-stroke cognitive impairment by accelerating molecular 
transportation in the brain ECS, paving a pathway for ischemic stroke treatment 
via the light-ECS interaction.

Copyright © 2025 Liu Yang et al.

DOI: 10.34133/cbsystems.0262
PMCID: PMC12053100
PMID: 40330544

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.


55. Cureus. 2025 Apr 5;17(4):e81753. doi: 10.7759/cureus.81753. eCollection 2025 
Apr.

Senescence Accelerates the Occurrence of Dual Amyloidosis: Alzheimer's Disease 
and Wild-Type Transthyretin Amyloidosis.

Misumi Y(1), Ando Y(2), Nakashima N(3), Sugimura Y(4), Shirahama R(4), Noguchi 
R(3), Matsuda H(3), Ando K(5), Tsunoda N(6), Izumiya Y(7), Tsujita K(7), Ueda 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, JPN.
(2)Department of Neurology, Amyloidosis Supporting Center, Sugimura Hospital, 
Kumamoto, JPN.
(3)Division of Cardiology, Sugimura Hospital, Kumamoto, JPN.
(4)Division of Neurology, Sugimura Hospital, Kumamoto, JPN.
(5)Division of Gastroenterology, Sugimura Hospital, Kumamoto, JPN.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Mitsugumachi Clinic, Kumamoto, JPN.
(7)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, JPN.

We report a case of dual amyloidosis with Alzheimer's disease and wild-type 
transthyretin (ATTRwt) amyloidosis. A 76-year-old man with Alzheimer's disease 
was referred for anti-amyloid-β therapy with lecanemab. He also had symptoms of 
congestive heart failure and a history of carpal tunnel syndrome, cubital tunnel 
syndrome, and lumbar spinal stenosis; raising Technetium-99m pyrophosphate 
myocardial scintigraphy showed abnormal uptake, and histopathologic examination 
revealed transthyretin (TTR) amyloid deposition in both myocardial and 
gastrointestinal biopsy specimens. Genetic testing for the TTR gene revealed no 
variants. The diagnosis of ATTRwt amyloidosis was confirmed, and treatment with 
a TTR tetramer stabilizer, tafamidis, was initiated. Alzheimer's disease of the 
brain and ATTRwt amyloidosis of the heart are both representative amyloidoses 
associated with aging. To date, there are no reported cases of dual amyloidosis 
other than autopsy cases, but considering the high prevalence of both diseases, 
it is plausible that a significant number of elderly individuals may suffer from 
both diseases simultaneously but are underdiagnosed. In recent years, 
disease-modifying drugs effective against both diseases have become available, 
making early diagnosis increasingly important.

Copyright © 2025, Misumi et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.81753
PMCID: PMC12051751
PMID: 40330419

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all 
authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared 
that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted 
work. Financial relationships: Misumi Y declare(s) a grant from Alnylam 
Pharmaceuticals. Ando Y declare(s) personal fees from Alnylam Pharmaceuticals. 
Ando Y declare(s) personal fees from Pfizer Inc. Izumiya Y declare(s) personal 
fees from Pfizer Inc. Ando Y declare(s) personal fees from Prothena Co. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


56. Clin Interv Aging. 2025 Apr 29;20:513-522. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S513910.
eCollection  2025.

Efficacy of a Neuroimmune Therapy Including Pineal Methoxyindoles, Angiotensin 
1-7, and Endocannabinoids in Cancer, Autoimmune, and Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Lissoni P(1), Rovelli F(1), Monzon A(1), Messina G(1), Merli N(1), Tartarelli 
R(2), Tassoni S(2), Zecchinato F(3), Simoes-E-Silva AC(4), Valentini A(5), Di 
Fede G(1), Cardinali DP(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological Medicine/International Institute of PNEI, Milan, 
Italy.
(2)PNEI Psychological Service, Pietrasanta, Lucca, Italy.
(3)Biotherapy Service, Verona, Italy.
(4)Facultade de Medicina, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(5)Madonna del Soccorso Hospital, San Benedetto del Tronto, Ascoli-Piceno, 
Italy.
(6)Facultad de Ciencias Médicas, Pontificia Universidad Católica Argentina, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina.

PURPOSE: Recent advancements in psycho-neuro-endocrine-immunology indicate that 
numerous noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) originate from disruptions in the 
cytokine immune network, resulting in chronic inflammatory responses. This 
persistent low-degree inflammation is attributed to deficiencies in crucial 
endogenous anti-inflammatory neuroendocrine systems, including the pineal gland, 
the endocannabinoid system, and the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 / 
angiotensin 1-7 axis. The administration of pineal methoxyindoles (melatonin, 
5-methoxytryptamine), cannabinoids, and angiotensin 1-7 may entail potential 
therapeutic benefits for NCDs, particularly for patients who do not respond to 
conventional treatments.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study evaluates the safety and efficacy of a 
neuroimmune regimen comprising melatonin (100 mg/day at night), 
5-methoxytryptamine (30 mg in the early afternoon), angiotensin 1-7 (0.5 mg 
twice daily), and cannabidiol (20 mg twice daily) in 306 patients with NCDs, 
including advanced cancer, autoimmune diseases, neurodegenerative disorders, 
depression, and cardiovascular disease.
RESULTS: The neuroimmune regimen successfully halted cancer progression in 68% 
of cancer patients, who also reported improvements in mood, sleep, and relief 
from anxiety, pain, and fatigue. In patients with autoimmune diseases, the 
treatment effectively controlled the disease process, remarkable in cases of 
multiple sclerosis. Additionally, positive outcomes were observed in patients 
with Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and depression.
CONCLUSION: Randomized controlled trials are required to assess this therapeutic 
approach for NCDs that includes endogenous neuroendocrine molecules regulating 
immune responses in an anti-inflammatory manner.

© 2025 Lissoni et al.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S513910
PMCID: PMC12050209
PMID: 40330271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


57. J Midlife Health. 2025 Jan-Mar;16(1):6-13. doi: 10.4103/jmh.jmh_152_24. Epub 
2025 Apr 5.

Use of Hormone Replacement Therapy in Special Circumstances.

Goel N(1), Ranjan M(1), Sharma JB(2), Srivastava R(1), Vardhan S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, SMS and R, Sharda Hospital, Greater 
Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, AIIMS, Delhi, India.

The use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) was quite liberal in the 19th 
century. The controversial reports given by the World Health Initiative and 
million women study restricted its use in certain medical conditions. This 
article has been written to revisit the use of HRT in certain medical conditions 
where it was earlier contraindicated. In the era of modern medicine, benefits 
and risks of HRT should be carefully thought of and a holistic treatment 
approach should be used to provide women the best quality of life she can have 
in her circumstance. Contraindications to HRT should be reconsidered as the 
estrogen deficient state might itself give the woman symptoms that could make 
her overall health even worse. HRT can be safely given in minimum doses, for a 
restricted period of time in conditions such as breast cancer, genital 
malignancy, cardiovascular disorders, Alzheimer's disease and thromboembolism 
and many more medical conditions. Another breakthrough in the past has been the 
use of HRT in hormone deficient states such as Turner syndrome (TS) and primary 
ovarian insufficiency (POI). HRT when timely given with growth hormone can prove 
to be beneficial in cases of both TS and POI.

Copyright: © 2025 Journal of Mid-life Health.

DOI: 10.4103/jmh.jmh_152_24
PMCID: PMC12052288
PMID: 40330244

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


58. Brain Behav. 2025 May;15(5):e70527. doi: 10.1002/brb3.70527.

Assessment of the Psychological Burden Among Family Caregivers of People Living 
With Dementia, Parkinson's, and Alzheimer's Disease Using the Zarit Burden 
Interview From Bangladesh.

Rahman MR(1), Aktar N(1), Islam F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Jashore University of Science and Technology, 
Jashore, Bangladesh.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to explore the burden experienced by family 
caregivers of individuals with dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 
Parkinson's disease (PD) in Bangladesh. It sought to identify the key 
contributing factors and determine the primary predictors influencing caregiver 
burden in this context.
METHODS: Seventy-five caregivers were selected on the basis of specific 
criteria. The Zarit burden interview was used to assess the caregiver burden 
among patients with dementia, AD and PD.
RESULTS: A total of 75 participants were assessed, with 50 (66.67%) being 
female. Most caregivers (40.0%) were spouses. Overall, caregivers experienced a 
moderate level of burden, with female caregivers reporting a higher burden 
compared to their male counterparts. Caregiver burden was significantly 
associated with age and the patient-caregiver relationship.
CONCLUSIONS: Greater research focus is needed on caregivers of patients with 
neurodegenerative diseases in developing countries.

© 2025 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.70527
PMCID: PMC12056365
PMID: 40329825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


59. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(1):167-183. doi: 10.1177/13872877251339771.
Epub  2025 May 7.

Identification of NDUFV2, NDUFS7, OPA1, and NDUFA1 as biomarkers for Alzheimer's 
disease: Insights from oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in the 
hippocampus.

Zhang J(1)(2), Liu T(3), Wu H(3), Wei J(2)(3), Qu Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Huaihe Hospital of Henan University, Kaifeng, China.
(3)Institute for Brain Sciences Research, School of Life Sciences, Henan 
University, Kaifeng, China.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-β deposits, 
neurofibrillary tangles, and hippocampal neurodegeneration, with oxidative 
stress and mitochondrial dysfunction playing critical roles in its pathogenesis. 
Identifying hub genes associated with these processes could advance biomarker 
discovery and therapeutic strategies.ObjectiveThis study aimed to identify key 
oxidative stress- and mitochondrial dysfunction-related genes in the AD 
hippocampus, evaluate their diagnostic potential, and explore therapeutic agents 
targeting these genes.MethodsWe analyzed datasets GSE48350 and GSE5281, 
encompassing 56 controls and 29 AD patients. Weighted gene co-expression network 
analysis (WGCNA) selected genes with significance (adjusted p-value < 0.05 and 
|logFC| ≥ 0.5). Further studies involved immune cell infiltration, Gene set 
enrichment analysis (GSEA), and intersecting differentially expressed genes 
(DEGs) with oxidative stress-related genes (ORGs) and mitochondrial 
dysfunction-related genes (MDRGs). Functional enrichment and Protein-protein 
interaction (PPI) analyses were conducted. Experimental validation was done in 
AD mouse models, and diagnostic potential was tested using datasets GSE28146 and 
GSE29652. Therapeutic drugs were predicted based on hub genes.ResultsAD showed 
altered immune cell expression. GSEA linked DEGs to nervous system processes and 
neurotransmitters. 194 oxidative stress-related DEGs were enriched in neuronal 
death and mitochondrial processes. PPI analysis identified 24 DEGs related to 
both oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction (DEO-MDRGs), with diagnostic 
potential (AUC > 0.5). LASSO regression selected four DEO-MDRGs: NDUFV2, NDUFS7, 
OPA1, and NDUFA1. Their protein levels were reduced in AD mice with decreased 
mitochondrial function. These genes showed good diagnostic performance. 
Potential drugs, like ME-344 and metformin hydrochloride, may be useful in AD 
treatment.ConclusionsNDUFV2, NDUFS7, OPA1, and NDUFA1 can serve as biomarkers 
for AD diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251339771
PMID: 40329774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


60. J Microencapsul. 2025 Aug;42(5):531-545. doi: 10.1080/02652048.2025.2500542. 
Epub 2025 May 7.

Repurposing linagliptin-loaded novasomes as a neuroprotectant for Alzheimer's 
disease: in-vitro characterisation, statistical optimisation and ex-vivo 
permeation study.

Farag MM(1), Abdelmalak NS(1), El Menshawe SF(2), Omara AS(3), Hamad DS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Beni-Suef University, Beni-Suef, Egypt.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics and Drug Manufacturing, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Modern University for Technology and Information, Cairo, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics and Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Nile Valley University, Fayoum, Egypt.

AIM: Linagliptin (LGP) has poor oral bioavailability due to P-gp efflux and 
first-pass metabolism. This study aimed to develop LGP-loaded novasomes 
(LGP-NVS) for intranasal brain delivery.
METHODS: LGP-NVS were prepared via thin film hydration and optimised using a 
Box-Behnken design, varying cholesterol, stearic acid, and span-80 levels. 
Fifteen formulations were evaluated for particle size, entrapment efficiency, 
zeta potential, and drug release. The optimised formula underwent further 
surface, compatibility, permeability, and stability studies.
RESULTS: The optimised formula showed high entrapment (84.22% ± 1.68%), small 
particle size (239.35 ± 15.20 nm), plausible zeta potential (-30.25 ± 1.23 mV), 
polydispersity index (0.32 ± 0.058), and controlled release (66.85 ± 2.25% after 
8 h). Transmission electron microscopy demonstrated uniform size. Stability was 
maintained over three months. Ex-vivo permeation studies showed 1.39-fold higher 
permeation through camel nasal mucosa compared to drug solution.
CONCLUSION: Intranasal LGP-NVS might be an auspicious therapeutic avenue for the 
combat of Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1080/02652048.2025.2500542
PMID: 40329664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70219. doi: 10.1002/alz.70219.

Brain outcomes with lifestyle change in adults with Down syndrome: Rationale and 
design for a 12-month randomized trial.

Ptomey LT(1), Donnelly JE(1), Burns J(2), Morris J(2), Hartley S(3), Martin 
LE(4)(5), Choi IY(2)(5), Lee P(5)(6), Li Y(7), Hunt S(7), Sherman JR(1), Danon 
JC(1), Brucks MG(4), Koon L(8), Spaeth K(9), Sullivan DK(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, The University of Kansas Medical Center, 
Kansas City, Kansas, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, The University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas 
City, Kansas, USA.
(3)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(4)Department of Population Health, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas 
City, Kansas, USA.
(5)Hoglund Biomedical Imaging Center, University of Kansas Medical Center, 
Kansas City, Kansas, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
Kansas, USA.
(7)Department of Biostatistics & Data Science, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City, Kansas, USA.
(8)Life Span Institute, University of Kansas, Lawerence, Kansas, USA.
(9)Department of Nutrition, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
Kansas, USA.

Most adults with Down syndrome (DS) will develop pathology associated with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). By age 65, the cumulative incidence of dementia 
exceeds 90%. The available data from trials in typically developed adults 
suggest the potential for intentional weight loss and changes in dietary intake 
to prevent or delay the development of AD. However, the potential of weight loss 
to prevent or delay AD in adults with DS has not been previously examined. In 
this article, we describe the methods and rationale for a randomized trial that 
will evaluate the impact of weight loss and dietary intake on factors that may 
delay the development of AD in adults with DS including cognition, plasma 
biomarkers, and brain structure. The results of this trial will provide 
information on if non-pharmacological approaches could delay onset of AD in 
adults with DS. Clinical Trials Registration: NCT05985486 HIGHLIGHTS: By the age 
of 65 the cumulative incidence of dementia exceeds 90% in adults with DS. There 
is a paucity of non-pharmacological interventions to delay AD in adults with DS. 
Clinical trials in adults without DS suggest that intentional weight loss may 
improve cognitive function and reduce the risk of developing AD. A randomized 
trial exploring the impact of weight loss on AD biomarkers in adults with DS is 
currently underway. This trial will explore if non-pharmacological approaches 
could delay onset of AD in adults with DS.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70219
PMCID: PMC12056299
PMID: 40329624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: L.T.P. receives funding from the NIH both 
related and unrelated to this work and research support to conduct clinical 
trials (paid to institution) from ACI‐24. J.E.D. receives funding from the NIH 
both related and unrelated to this work. He receives funding for consulting from 
the University of Colorado and the University of Massachusetts and funding from 
Health Partners (Minneapolis) for Data Safety and Monitoring Board. J.B. has 
received research support from the NIH, research support to conduct clinical 
trials (paid to institution) from Eli Lilly, Amylyx, Biogen, Eisai, AbbVie, 
Astra‐Zeneca, Roche, and Ionis and has served as a consultant for Renew 
Research, Eisai, Eli Lilly, LabCorp, Roche, Renew Biotechnologies, AbbVie, Novo 
Nordisk. J.B. serves on a Data Monitoring Committee for Intra‐Cellular 
Therapies, Inc. J.M. receives funding from the NIH both related and unrelated to 
this work, and funding from the University of Kentucky for Data Safety and 
Monitoring Board. S.H. receives funding from the NIH unrelated to this work. She 
serves as a consultant to the University of Kansas Medical Center related to 
this work and has served as a consultant for IONIS Pharmaceuticals. L.M. 
receives funding from the NIH both related and unrelated to this work. She has 
received Honoria for a panel discussion for the National Center for Faculty 
Development and Diversity. M.B. and J.S. receive funding from the NIH both 
related and unrelated to this work. P.L., I.C., L.K., S.H., J.D., and K.S. 
receive funding from the NIH related to this work. D.S. receives funding from 
NIH related and unrelated to this work, as well as funding from HHS, MCHB, U.S 
Highbush Blueberry Council, and National Cattlemen's Beef Association unrelated 
to this work. M.B. has nothing to disclose. Author disclosures are available in 
Supporting Information.


62. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70164. doi: 10.1002/alz.70164.

Aquaporin 4 modulation drives amyloid burden and cognitive abilities in an 
APPPS1 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Manescu MD(1), Catalin B(2), Baldea I(3), Mateescu VO(1), Rosu GC(1), Boboc 
IKS(2), Istrate-Ofiteru AM(1), Liliac IM(1), Streba CT(4), Kumar-Singh S(5), 
Pirici D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Histology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova, 
Craiova, Romania.
(2)Department of Physiology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova, 
Craiova, Romania.
(3)Department of Physiology, Iuliu Haţieganu University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(4)Department of Pulmonology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova, 
Craiova, Romania.
(5)Laboratory of Cell Biology and Histology, Molecular Pathology Group, Faculty 
of Medical and Health Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: Deficiency in the aquaporin-4 (AQP4) water channel has been linked 
to impaired amyloid beta (Aβ) clearance. However, a detailed morphopathological 
analysis of amyloid deposition following AQP4 therapeutic modulation remains 
unexplored.
METHODS: Two-month-old amyloid precursor protein presenilin 1 (APPPS1) mice were 
treated daily for 28 days with either the AQP4 facilitator 
N-(3-(Benzyloxy)pyridin-2-yl) benzene-sulfonamide (TGN-073) or the AQP4 
inhibitor N-(1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yl)pyridine-3-carboxamide dihydrochloride 
(TGN-020) (both at 200 mg/kg). Controls included vehicle-treated APPPS1 and WT 
C57BL/6J mice. Comprehensive histopathological, biochemical, and behavioral 
analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Mice treated with AQP4 facilitator showed a significant reduction in 
total Aβ, fibrillar deposits, and soluble Aβ, while the AQP4 inhibitor caused a 
substantial increase in brain Aβ. AQP4-facilitator treatment also reduced Aβ40 
levels and Aβ40/Aβ42 ratio, whereas the inhibitor treatment increased both Aβ40 
and Aβ42. Additionally, facilitator-treated mice demonstrated reduced anxiety 
and improved memory performance.
DISCUSSION: These findings suggest that AQP4 modulation is a promising strategy 
to enhance Aβ clearance and a potential therapeutic target in Alzheimer's 
disease.
HIGHLIGHTS: Intramural periarterial drainage of the interstitial fluid mediated 
by aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is a key element that ensures clearance of catabolites/Aβ 
peptide from within the brain parenchyma. Inhibition of AQP4 in an APPPS1 mouse 
model of AD leads to increased amyloid deposition and deficient behavior 
compared to untreated transgenic animals. Pharmaceutical facilitation of AQP4 in 
the same APPPS1 mouse model leads to a massive decrease in amyloid burden and 
improves the behavioral performance of the animals compared to untreated control 
APPPS1 mice.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70164
PMCID: PMC12056304
PMID: 40329616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


63. HGG Adv. 2025 Jul 10;6(3):100447. doi: 10.1016/j.xhgg.2025.100447. Epub 2025
May  5.

Integrating spatial transcriptomics and snRNA-seq data enhances differential 
gene expression analysis results of AD-related phenotypes.

Tang S(1), Liu S(1), Buchman AS(2), Bennett DA(2), De Jager PL(3), Yang J(4), Hu 
J(5).

Author information:
(1)Center for Computational and Quantitative Genetics, Department of Human 
Genetics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA; 
Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Emory University School of 
Public Health, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.
(2)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
60612, USA.
(3)Center for Translational and Computational Neuroimmunology, Department of 
Neurology and Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging 
Brain, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(4)Center for Computational and Quantitative Genetics, Department of Human 
Genetics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. 
Electronic address: jingjing.yang@emory.edu.
(5)Center for Computational and Quantitative Genetics, Department of Human 
Genetics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. 
Electronic address: jian.hu@emory.edu.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Nov 18:2024.11.18.24317499. doi: 10.1101/2024.11.18.24317499.

Spatial transcriptomics (ST) data provide spatially informed gene expression 
profiles. However, power is limited for spatially informed differential gene 
expression (DGE) of complex diseases such as Alzheimer disease (AD), due to 
small sample sizes of ST data. Conversely, single-nucleus RNA sequencing 
(snRNA-seq) data offer larger sample sizes for cell-type-specific (CTS) analyses 
but lack spatial information. Here, we integrated ST and snRNA-seq data to 
enhance the power of spatially informed CTS DGE analysis of AD-related 
phenotypes. We first utilized the CeLEry tool to infer six cortical layers of 
∼1.5 million cells in the snRNA-seq data that were profiled from the 
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) tissue of 436 postmortem brains. Then, we 
conducted cortical layer- and cell-type-specific (LCS) and CTS DGE analyses 
based on the linear mixed model, for β-amyloid, tangle density, and cognitive 
decline. We identified 138 LCS significant genes with false discovery rate (FDR) 
q <0.05, including 103 for β-amyloid, 24 for tangle density, and 25 for 
cognitive decline. The majority of these LCS significant genes, including known 
AD risk genes such as APOE, KCNIP3, and CTSD, cannot be detected by CTS 
analyses. We also identified 2 genes shared across all 3 phenotypes and 10 
shared between 2 phenotypes. Gene set enrichment analyses with the LCS DGE 
results of microglia in cortical layer 6 of β-amyloid identified 12 significant 
AD-related pathways. In conclusion, incorporating spatial information with 
snRNA-seq data enhanced the power of spatially informed DGE analyses. These 
identified LCS significant genes not only help illustrate the pathogenesis of AD 
but they also provide potential targets for developing therapeutics of AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xhgg.2025.100447
PMCID: PMC12159441
PMID: 40329537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


64. Eur J Neurosci. 2025 May;61(9):e70125. doi: 10.1111/ejn.70125.

Changes of the Primary Cilia in Alzheimer's Disease Pathogenesis.

Guo A(1), Wang H(2), Zhang Y(2), Huang H(3).

Author information:
(1)Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Membrane Biology, College of Life Sciences, Peking 
University, Beijing, China.
(3)Yiwu Central Hospital, Yiwu, Zhejiang, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative disorder intricately linked with 
aging, poses an escalating global health challenge. Currently, no effective 
treatment exists for AD. Although the pathological characteristics of AD 
predominantly emerge in older age, numerous structural and functional 
alterations in the nervous system may commence early in life or even during 
developmental stages. Primary cilia, organelles associated with age-related 
diseases, have not been extensively studied in the context of AD progression. 
This study initiated an examination of the common pathological features of AD 
and identified that amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaque deposition resulted in the 
shortening of primary cilia. In the hippocampus of familial AD mice, there was a 
significant upregulation of somatostatin receptor 3 (SSTR3) expression. To 
further elucidate the role of SSTR3 in AD pathology, we knocked out SSTR3 
expression in 5 × FAD mice, which resulted in an exacerbation of AD-related 
pathological features. Our study offers novel insights into the pathological 
alterations associated with AD.

© 2025 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.70125
PMID: 40329506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Fluids Barriers CNS. 2025 May 6;22(1):43. doi: 10.1186/s12987-025-00653-w.

Individual-level cortical morphological network analysis in idiopathic normal 
pressure hydrocephalus: diagnostic and prognostic insights.

Yang Y(1), Yan M(1), Sun L(1), Liu X(1), Fang X(2), Li S(3), Lin G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Huadong Hospital Affiliated to Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Huadong Hospital Affiliated to Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China. 215192661@qq.com.
(3)Department of Radiology, Huadong Hospital Affiliated to Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China. lishihong@fudan.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Radiology, Huadong Hospital Affiliated to Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China. lingw01000@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) is a 
neurodegenerative disorder characterized by treatable cognitive impairment, 
remains poorly understood in terms of its underlying pathological mechanisms. 
Cortical morphological similarity network, which quantify synchronized 
morphological changes across brain regions, offer novel insights into 
inter-individual neuroanatomical variability. This study investigates 
individual-level cortical morphological network patterns in iNPH, explores their 
diagnostic utility and prognostic value for postoperative outcomes.
METHODS: We enrolled 56 confirmed iNPH patients, 50 Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
patients, and 60 healthy controls (HC). Cortical morphological similarity 
networks were constructed using a morphometric inverse divergence network (MIND) 
framework, integrating five key cortical features: cortical thickness, mean 
curvature, sulcal depth, surface area, and cortical volume. Graph theory 
analysis was employed to quantify global and nodal network properties. Partial 
correlations with MMSE scores assessed network-cognition relationships. A 
LASSO-regularized support vector machine (SVM) classifier differentiated iNPH, 
AD, and HC groups using regional MIND similarity (MINDs) features. Finally, 
preoperative MRI-derived MINDs were integrated into a LASSO-regularized support 
vector regression (SVR) model to predict postoperative cognitive and gait 
improvements following shunt surgery.
RESULTS: Both iNPH and AD exhibited disrupted MIND network topology versus HC, 
including lower clustering coefficient, global efficiency, and local efficiency 
(all p < 0.05). Distinct spatial patterns emerged: iNPH showed localized lower 
values in cingulate subregions (degree centrality, node efficiency, MINDs), 
whereas AD demonstrated widespread alterations in fusiform, insular, and 
temporoparietal cortices. MMSE-associated MINDs in iNPH localized to 
frontostriatal circuits, contrasting with diffuse associations in AD. The 
multimodal classifier combining ventricular enlargement, regional brain volume, 
and MINDs achieved 87.00% accuracy (macro-AUC = 0.96) in three-group 
discrimination. Moreover, preoperative MINDs effectively predicted postoperative 
improvements in cognition and gait, with correlation coefficients of 0.941 and 
0.889, respectively, between predicted and actual scores.
CONCLUSIONS: The MIND-based morphological similarity network reveals coordinated 
cortical morphological alterations in iNPH and highlights its heterogeneity 
compared to AD. These findings offer potential biomarkers to differentiate iNPH 
from AD. Furthermore, the predictive efficacy of MIND-based features for 
postoperative outcomes underscores their utility as non-invasive preoperative 
tools for evaluating shunt surgery effectiveness.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12987-025-00653-w
PMCID: PMC12057220
PMID: 40329395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The studies involving human participants were reviewed and approved 
by the Institutional Review Board of Huadong Hospital affiliated with Fudan 
University, and carried out in accordance with the national legislation and the 
institutional requirements. Written informed consent was waived. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable-the manuscript does not include details, images, or 
videos relating to an individual person. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


66. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 May 6;20(1):52. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00841-0.

Cerebrospinal fluid proteome profiling across the Alzheimer's disease continuum: 
a step towards solving the equation for 'X'.

Weiner S(1), Sauer M(2), Montoliu-Gaya L(2), Benedet AL(2), Ashton NJ(2)(3), 
Gonzalez-Ortiz F(2)(4), Simrén J(2), Rahmouni N(5), Tissot C(5), Therriault 
J(5), Servaes S(5), Stevenson J(5), Leinonen V(6), Rauramaa T(7), Hiltunen M(8), 
Rosa-Neto P(9), Blennow K(2)(4)(10)(11), Zetterberg H(2)(4)(12)(13)(14)(15), 
Gobom J(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden. sophia.weiner@gu.se.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(3)Banner Alzheimer's Institute and University of Arizona, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(4)Clinical Neurochemistry Lab, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden.
(5)McGill University Research Centre for Studies in Aging, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, NeuroCenter, Kuopio University Hospital and 
Neurosurgery, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Eastern Finland, 
Kuopio, Finland.
(7)Department of Pathology, Kuopio University Hospital and Institute of Clinical 
Medicine-Pathology, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(8)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(9)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill University Research Centre for 
Studies in Aging, Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Psychiatry and 
Pharmacology and Therapeutics, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(10)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(11)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute On Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, People's Republic of China.
(12)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(13)UK Dementia Research Institute, UCL, London, UK.
(14)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.

BACKGROUND: While the temporal profile of amyloid (Aβ) and tau cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) biomarkers along the Alzheimer's disease (AD) continuum is 
well-studied, chronological changes of CSF proteins reflecting other 
disease-relevant processes, denoted 'X' in the ATX(N) framework, remain poorly 
understood.
METHODS: Using an untargeted mass spectrometric approach termed tandem mass tag 
(TMT), we quantified over 1500 CSF proteins across the AD continuum in three 
independent cohorts, finely staged by Aβ/tau positron emission tomography (PET), 
fluid biomarkers, or brain biopsy. Weighted protein co-expression network 
analysis identified clusters of proteins robustly correlating in all three 
cohorts which sequentially changed with AD progression. Obtained protein 
clusters were correlated with fluid biomarker measurements (phosphorylated tau 
(p-tau) species including p-tau181, p-tau217, and p-tau205, as well as Aβ), 
Aβ/tau PET imaging, and clinical parameters to discern disease-relevant clusters 
which were modelled across the AD continuum.
RESULTS: Neurodegeneration-related proteins (e.g., 14-3-3 proteins, PPIA), 
derived from different brain cell types, strongly correlated with fluid as well 
as imaging biomarkers and increased early in the AD continuum. Among them, the 
proteins SMOC1 and CNN3 were highly associated with Aβ pathology, while the 
14-3-3 proteins YWHAZ and YWHAE as well as PPIA demonstrated a strong 
association with both Aβ and tau pathology as indexed by PET. Endo-lysosomal 
proteins (e.g., HEXB, TPP1, SIAE) increased early in abundance alongside 
neurodegeneration-related proteins, and were followed by increases in metabolic 
proteins such as ALDOA, MDH1, and GOT1 at the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) 
stage. Finally, later AD stages were characterized by decreases in 
synaptic/membrane proteins (e.g., NPTX2).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study identified proxies of Aβ and tau pathology, indexed by 
PET, (SMOC1, YWHAE, CNN3) and highlighted the dynamic fluctuations of the CSF 
proteome over the disease course, identifying candidate biomarkers for disease 
staging beyond Aβ and tau.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00841-0
PMCID: PMC12057231
PMID: 40329321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The TRAID biomarker study was approved by the Montreal Neurological 
Institute PET working committee and the Douglas Mental Health University 
Institute Research Ethics Board. Written informed consent was obtained for all 
participants. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: HZ 
has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, 
Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
KB has served as a consultant, at advisory boards, or at data monitoring 
committees for Abcam, Axon, BioArctic, Biogen, JOMDD/Shimadzu. Julius Clinical, 
Lilly, MagQu, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Pharmatrophix, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, 
and Siemens Healthineers, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, 
outside the work presented in this paper. The other authors declare no competing 
interests.


67. Chin Med. 2025 May 7;20(1):58. doi: 10.1186/s13020-025-01106-0.

Potential scalp acupuncture and brain stimulation targets for common 
neurological disorders: evidence from neuroimaging studies.

Wu Y(#)(1), Kong Q(#)(1), Li Y(#)(1), Feng Y(#)(1), Zhang B(2), Liu Y(1), Yu 
S(3), Liu J(4), Cao J(5), Cui F(6), Kong J(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, 02129, USA.
(2)Guang'anmen Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Science, Beijing, 
100053, China.
(3)Acupuncture-Moxibustion and Tuina School, Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, 611137, China.
(4)College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Capital Medical University, 100000, 
Beijing, China.
(5)School of Life Sciences, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, 
100029, China.
(6)Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, 100700, 
China.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, 02129, USA. JKONG2@mgh.harvard.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Scalp acupuncture is a promising potential therapy for neurological 
disorders. However, the development of its stimulation targets-both in 
identifying novel targets and refining the precision of their localization-has 
advanced slowly, largely due to the inadequate integration of brain science 
findings. This study leverages advances in brain neuroimaging to identify 
evidence-based cortical targets, enhancing the potential of scalp acupuncture 
and other brain stimulation techniques.
METHODS: Using the Neurosynth Compose platform, systematic meta-analyses of 
neuroimaging studies were conducted to identify potential surface cortical 
targets for ten neurological conditions: Subjective Cognitive Decline (SCD), 
Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Parkinson's Disease 
(PD), Multiple System Atrophy (MSA), Post-Stroke Aphasia (PSA), Primary 
Progressive Aphasia (PPA), Dyslexia, Chronic Pain, and Disorders of 
Consciousness (DoC). These targets were projected onto the scalp, further 
localized using scalp acupuncture lines, traditional acupoints and EEG 10-20 
system.
RESULTS: We have identified specific cortical targets for scalp acupuncture 
associated with ten neurological disorders. Our findings are broadly consistent 
with current scalp acupuncture protocols while introducing additional new 
stimulation targets, such as the inferior temporal gyrus for memory processing 
and the angular gyrus for visuospatial attention. Additionally, the identified 
targets align with evidence from non-invasive brain stimulation, supporting 
therapeutic strategies for conditions such as movement disorders and cognitive 
impairments by targeting areas like the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and 
primary motor cortex.
CONCLUSION: Our findings provide a foundation for developing a brain 
imaging-based scalp acupuncture protocol for neurological disorders. The 
identified targets may also be used as brain stimulation targets for these 
disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13020-025-01106-0
PMCID: PMC12057072
PMID: 40329319

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. This 
manuscript does not contain any individual person's data in any form (including 
individual details, images, or videos). Competing interests: JK has a disclosure 
to report (Holding equity in Startup companies (MNT and BTT), a granted patent 
and several pending patents), but declare no conflict of interest. The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


68. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 May 6;17(1):98. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01739-1.

Assessment of the relationship between synaptic density and metabotropic 
glutamate receptors in early Alzheimer's disease: a multi-tracer PET study.

Salardini E(1)(2)(3), O'Dell RS(1)(2), Tchorz E(1), Nabulsi NB(4), Huang Y(4), 
Carson RE(4), van Dyck CH(1)(2)(3)(5), Mecca AP(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Disease Research Unit, Yale University School of Medicine, One 
Church Street, 8 Floor, New Haven, CT, 06510, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, 
USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, 
USA.
(4)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
CT, USA.
(6)Alzheimer's Disease Research Unit, Yale University School of Medicine, One 
Church Street, 8 Floor, New Haven, CT, 06510, USA. adam.mecca@yale.edu.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, 
USA. adam.mecca@yale.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Sep 24:2024.09.21.614277. doi: 10.1101/2024.09.21.614277.

BACKGROUND: The pathological effects of amyloid β oligomers (Aβo) may be 
mediated through the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5), leading 
to synaptic loss in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Positron emission tomography (PET) 
studies of mGluR5 using [18F]FPEB indicate a reduction of receptor binding that 
is focused in the medial temporal lobe in AD. Synaptic loss due to AD measured 
through synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2A (SV2A) quantification with [11C]UCB-J 
PET is also focused in the medial temporal lobe, but with clear widespread 
reductions is commonly AD-affected neocortical regions. In this study, we used 
[18F]FPEB and [11C]UCB-J PET to investigate the relationship between mGluR5 and 
synaptic density in early AD.
METHODS: Fifteen amyloid positive participants with early AD and 12 amyloid 
negative, cognitively normal (CN) participants underwent PET scans with both 
[18F]FPEB to measure mGluR5 and [11C]UCB-J to measure synaptic density. 
Parametric distribution volume ratio (DVR) images using equilibrium methods were 
generated from dynamic images. For [18F]FPEB PET, DVR was calculated using 
equilibrium methods and a cerebellum reference region. For [11C]UCB-J PET, DVR 
was calculated with a simplified reference tissue model - 2 and a whole 
cerebellum reference region.
RESULTS: A strong positive correlation between mGluR5 and synaptic density was 
present in the hippocampus for participants with AD (r = 0.81, p < 0.001) and in 
the CN group (r = 0.74, p = 0.005). In the entorhinal cortex, there was a strong 
positive correlation between mGluR5 and synaptic density in the AD group 
(r = 0.85, p < 0.001), but a weaker non-significant correlation in the CN group 
(r = 0.36, p = 0.245). Exploratory analyses indicated more widespread 
significant positive correlations between synaptic density and mGluR5 within 
regions, as well as significant positive correlations between synaptic density 
in the temporal lobe and mGluR5 across a broader set of regions commonly 
affected by AD.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that mGluR5 reduction in AD is closely linked 
to synaptic loss. Longitudinal studies are needed to clarify causality, deepen 
understanding of AD pathogenesis, and aid in developing novel biomarkers and 
treatments.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01739-1
PMCID: PMC12054321
PMID: 40329311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study protocol was approved by the Yale University Human 
Investigation Committee and Radiation Safety Committee. All participants 
provided written informed consent prior to participating in the study. Consent 
for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: A.P.M., R.E.C., and 
C.H.vD. report grants from the National Institutes of Health for the conduct of 
the study. A.P.M. reports grants for clinical trials from Eli Lilly and Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals outside the submitted work. Y.H. reports research grants from 
UCB and Eli Lilly outside the submitted work. Y.H., N.B.N., and R.E.C. have a 
patent for a newer version of the tracer. R.E.C. is a consultant for Rodin 
Therapeutics and has received research funding from UCB. R.E.C. reports having 
received grants from AstraZeneca, Astellas, Eli Lilly, Pfizer, Taisho, and UCB 
outside the submitted work. C.H.vD. reports consulting fees from Kyowa Kirin, 
Roche, Merck, Eli Lilly, and Janssen and grants for clinical trials from Biogen, 
Novartis, Eli Lilly, Merck, Eisai, Janssen, Roche, Genentech, Toyama, and 
Biohaven outside the submitted work. R.S.O. reports grants for clinical trials 
from Cognition Therapeutics and Bristol-Myers Squibb outside of the submitted 
work.


69. J Nat Med. 2025 Jul;79(4):896-912. doi: 10.1007/s11418-025-01904-8. Epub 2025
 May 6.

Identification of specialized metabolites from Artocarpus lacucha as potent 
α-glucosidase and acetylcholinesterase inhibitors: enzyme kinetic, in vitro and 
in silico study.

Songoen W(1), Phanchai W(2), Schinnerl J(3), Brecker L(4), Thabpho M(5), 
Tharamak S(6), Pluempanupat W(6), Sukkhaeng S(7), Chansuthep S(7).

Author information:
(1)Central Laboratory and Greenhouse Complex, Research and Academic Service 
Center, Faculty of Agriculture at Kamphaeng Saen, Kasetsart University, 
Kamphaeng Saen Campus, Nakhon Pathom, 73140, Thailand. fagrwss@ku.ac.th.
(2)Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen, 
40002, Thailand.
(3)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
University of Vienna, Rennweg 14, 1030, Vienna, Austria. 
johann.schinnerl@univie.ac.at.
(4)Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Chemistry, University of Vienna, 
Währinger Strasse 38, 1090, Vienna, Austria.
(5)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kasetsart University, Kamphaeng Saen, Nakhon 
Pathom, 73140, Thailand.
(6)Department of Chemistry and Center of Excellence for Innovation in Chemistry, 
Special Research Unit for Advanced Magnetic Resonance, Faculty of Science, 
Kasetsart University, Bangkok, 10900, Thailand.
(7)Central Laboratory and Greenhouse Complex, Research and Academic Service 
Center, Faculty of Agriculture at Kamphaeng Saen, Kasetsart University, 
Kamphaeng Saen Campus, Nakhon Pathom, 73140, Thailand.

Artocarpus species play an important role in the folk medicine of various ethnic 
groups in Africa, South Asia, and Southeast Asia. In the present study, we 
investigated the potential of Artocarpus lacucha in the treatment of diabetes 
mellitus and Alzheimer's disease. During this work, one previously undescribed 
compound (1), along with 10 known compounds (2-11), were isolated from the 
leaves of Artocarpus lacucha. Their molecular structures were established using 
NMR and HRMS experiments. Among the tested compounds, flavan-benzofuran 
artocarpinol B, displayed significant α-glucosidase inhibitory activity with an 
IC50 value of 4.01 ± 0.04 µM (positive control acarbose: 475.14 ± 4.65 µM). The 
conducted enzyme kinetic study revealed their inhibition mode through 
competitive type. This is also supported by the molecular docking and dynamics 
simulations which gave insight into the interactions and stability between 
α-glucosidase and artocarpinol B in the active site. In addition, 
4-geranyl-2',3,4',5-tetrahydroxy-trans-stilbene (5) further shows potent 
acetylcholinesterase inhibition, with IC50 = 8.57 ± 0.39 µM. Compounds 5 and 6 
displayed moderate activity against Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus 
agalactiae, with MIC and MBC values ranging from 26.9 to 69.9 μM. This study 
explored the potential of constituents from A. lacucha as α-glucosidase and 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, which are crucial in the treatment of Diabetes 
mellitus and Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Japanese Society of 
Pharmacognosy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11418-025-01904-8
PMID: 40329121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest regarding the publication of 
this manuscript.


70. J Neurol. 2025 May 6;272(6):381. doi: 10.1007/s00415-025-13104-1.

The intersection of delirium and long-term cognition in older adults: the 
critical role of delirium prevention.

Lu Z(#)(1)(2), Wang X(#)(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2), Zhao L(1)(2), Wu Y(1)(2)(3), Sun 
M(#)(4)(5)(6), Zhang J(#)(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, People's Hospital of 
Zhengzhou University, Henan Provincial People's Hospital, No. 7, Wei-Wu Road, 
Jinshui District, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China.
(2)Henan Academy of Innovations in Medical Science, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, 
China.
(3)Henan University, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, People's Hospital of 
Zhengzhou University, Henan Provincial People's Hospital, No. 7, Wei-Wu Road, 
Jinshui District, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China. mingyangsun1986@163.com.
(5)Henan Academy of Innovations in Medical Science, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, 
China. mingyangsun1986@163.com.
(6)Academy of Medical Sciences of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan, China. 
mingyangsun1986@163.com.
(7)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, People's Hospital of 
Zhengzhou University, Henan Provincial People's Hospital, No. 7, Wei-Wu Road, 
Jinshui District, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China. zhangjiq@zzu.edu.cn.
(8)Henan Academy of Innovations in Medical Science, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, 
China. zhangjiq@zzu.edu.cn.
(9)Academy of Medical Sciences of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan, China. 
zhangjiq@zzu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Delirium, a neuropsychiatric syndrome characterized by an acute and usually 
reversible state of confusion, while dementia is a chronic, acquired cognitive 
impairment that significantly reduces a patient's ability to perform daily 
tasks, learn, work, and engage in social interactions. Previous studies 
indicates that individuals with dementia are more susceptible to delirium than 
the general population, and that delirium serves as an independent risk factor 
for the subsequent onset of dementia. However, a major controversy in this field 
concerns whether delirium is merely a marker of vulnerability to dementia, or 
whether delirium-induced adverse outcomes such as falls and functional decline 
contribute to dementia, or whether delirium directly causes permanent neuronal 
damage and lead to dementia. It is possible that all these hypotheses hold some 
truth. In this review, we examine the shared and distinct mechanisms of delirium 
and dementia by reviewing their clinical features, epidemiology, 
clinicopathological, biomarkers, neuroimaging, and recent experimental studies, 
and we discuss the importance of targeting delirium to explore new preventive 
and therapeutic strategies for reducing long-term cognitive impairment.

© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-025-13104-1
PMID: 40329080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: The authors 
declare no conflicts of interests. Ethical approval: Not applicable. Consent for 
publication: All authors have read and approved the submission of the 
manuscript.


71. Sci Rep. 2025 May 6;15(1):15835. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-97674-0.

MINDSETS: Multi-omics Integration with Neuroimaging for Dementia Subtyping and 
Effective Temporal Study.

Hassan S(1), Akaila D(2), Arjemandi M(2), Papineni V(3), Yaqub M(2).

Author information:
(1)Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence, Abu Dhabi, United 
Arab Emirates. salma.hassan@mbzuai.ac.ae.
(2)Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence, Abu Dhabi, United 
Arab Emirates.
(3)Sheikh Shakhbout Medical City, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.

In the complex realm of cognitive disorders, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
vascular dementia (VaD) are the two most prevalent dementia types, presenting 
entangled symptoms yet requiring distinct treatment approaches. The crux of 
effective treatment in slowing neurodegeneration lies in early, accurate 
diagnosis, as this significantly assists doctors in determining the appropriate 
course of action. However, current diagnostic practices often delay VaD 
diagnosis, impeding timely intervention and adversely affecting patient 
prognosis. This paper presents an innovative multi-omics approach to accurately 
differentiate AD from VaD, achieving a diagnostic accuracy of 89.25%. The 
proposed method segments the longitudinal MRI scans and extracts advanced 
radiomics features. Subsequently, it synergistically integrates the radiomics 
features with an ensemble of clinical, cognitive, and genetic data to provide 
state-of-the-art diagnostic accuracy, setting a new benchmark in classification 
accuracy on a large public dataset. The paper's primary contribution is 
proposing a comprehensive methodology utilizing multi-omics data to provide a 
nuanced understanding of dementia subtypes. Additionally, the paper introduces 
an interpretable model to enhance clinical decision-making coupled with a novel 
model architecture for evaluating treatment efficacy. These advancements lay the 
groundwork for future work not only aimed at improving differential diagnosis 
but also mitigating and preventing the progression of dementia.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-97674-0
PMCID: PMC12056088
PMID: 40328937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


72. Signal Transduct Target Ther. 2025 May 7;10(1):146. doi: 
10.1038/s41392-025-02179-x.

Protein kinases in neurodegenerative diseases: current understandings and 
implications for drug discovery.

Wu X(#)(1), Yang Z(#)(1), Zou J(1), Gao H(2), Shao Z(3), Li C(4), Lei P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, National 
Clinical Research Center for Geriatrics, West China Hospital, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Drug Targeting and Drug Delivery Systems, West China School 
of Pharmacy, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(3)Division of Nephrology and Kidney Research Institute, State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy and Cancer Center, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
Sichuan, China.
(4)Department of Medical Genetics, School of Basic Medicine, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China. 
chuanzhouli@hust.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Neurology and State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, National 
Clinical Research Center for Geriatrics, West China Hospital, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China. peng.lei@scu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's 
disease, and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis) are major health threats for the 
aging population and their prevalences continue to rise with the increasing of 
life expectancy. Although progress has been made, there is still a lack of 
effective cures to date, and an in-depth understanding of the molecular and 
cellular mechanisms of these neurodegenerative diseases is imperative for drug 
development. Protein phosphorylation, regulated by protein kinases and protein 
phosphatases, participates in most cellular events, whereas aberrant 
phosphorylation manifests as a main cause of diseases. As evidenced by 
pharmacological and pathological studies, protein kinases are proven to be 
promising therapeutic targets for various diseases, such as cancers, central 
nervous system disorders, and cardiovascular diseases. The mechanisms of protein 
phosphatases in pathophysiology have been extensively reviewed, but a systematic 
summary of the role of protein kinases in the nervous system is lacking. Here, 
we focus on the involvement of protein kinases in neurodegenerative diseases, by 
summarizing the current knowledge on the major kinases and related regulatory 
signal transduction pathways implicated in diseases. We further discuss the role 
and complexity of kinase-kinase networks in the pathogenesis of 
neurodegenerative diseases, illustrate the advances of clinical applications of 
protein kinase inhibitors or novel kinase-targeted therapeutic strategies (such 
as antisense oligonucleotides and gene therapy) for effective prevention and 
early intervention.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41392-025-02179-x
PMCID: PMC12056177
PMID: 40328798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: P.L. serves on the 
editorial board of Signal Transduction and Targeted Therapy but was not involved 
in the handling of the manuscript. The other authors declare no competing 
interests.


73. Nat Commun. 2025 May 7;16(1):4222. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-59128-z.

Development of a brain-penetrant G9a methylase inhibitor to target Alzheimer's 
disease-associated proteopathology.

Xie L(#)(1), Sheehy RN(#)(2), Muneer A(#)(1), Xiong Y(#)(3), Wrobel JA(1), Zhang 
F(4), Park KS(3), Velez J(3), Liu J(3), Luo YJ(2), Asrican B(2), Dong P(2), Li 
YD(2), Damian C(2), Quintanilla L(2), Li Y(2), Xu C(5), Deshmukh M(6), Coleman 
LG Jr(7), Ming GL(4), Song H(4), Wen Z(5), Jin J(8), Song J(9), Chen X(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Biophysics, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Mount Sinai Center for Therapeutics Discovery, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Neuroscience and Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(5)Departments of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Cell Biology, and 
Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(6)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(7)Bowles Center for Alcohol Studies, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(8)Mount Sinai Center for Therapeutics Discovery, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. jian.jin@mssm.edu.
(9)Department of Pharmacology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. juansong@email.unc.edu.
(10)Department of Biochemistry & Biophysics, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. xianc@email.unc.edu.
(11)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. xianc@email.unc.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    medRxiv. 2023 Oct 26:2023.10.25.23297491. doi: 10.1101/2023.10.25.23297491.
    Res Sq. 2023 Nov 21:rs.3.rs-2743792. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-2743792/v1.

Current Aβ-targeting therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease (AD) only slow 
cognitive decline due to poor understanding of AD pathogenesis. Here we describe 
a mechanism of AD pathogenesis in which the histone methyltransferase G9a 
noncanonically regulates translation of hippocampal proteins associated with AD 
pathology. Correspondingly, we developed a brain-penetrant inhibitor of G9a, 
MS1262, which restored both age-related learning & memory and noncognitive 
functions in multiple AD mouse models. Further, comparison of AD 
pathology-correlated mouse proteomes with those of AD patients found G9a 
regulates pathological pathways that promote Aβ and neurofibrillary tangles. 
This mouse-to-human overlap of G9a regulated AD-associated pathologic proteins 
supports at the molecular level the efficacy of targeting G9a translational 
mechanism for treating AD patients. Additionally, MS1262 treatment reversed the 
AD-characteristic expression or phosphorylation of multiple clinically validated 
biomarkers of AD that have the potential to be used for early-stage AD diagnosis 
and companion diagnosis of individualized drug effects.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-59128-z
PMCID: PMC12056044
PMID: 40328756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: X.C. is the Founder of 
Transchromix, LLC. J.J. is a cofounder and equity shareholder in Cullgen, Inc., 
a scientific cofounder and scientific advisory board member of Onsero 
Therapeutics, Inc., and a consultant for Cullgen, Inc., EpiCypher, Inc., Accent 
Therapeutics, Inc, and Tavotek Biotherapeutics, Inc. The Jin laboratory received 
research funds from Celgene Corporation, Levo Therapeutics, Inc., Cullgen, Inc. 
and Cullinan Oncology, Inc. The remaining authors declare no competing 
interests.


74. Pain Manag Nurs. 2025 Oct;26(5):e434-e440. doi: 10.1016/j.pmn.2025.04.001.
Epub  2025 May 5.

Assessing and Managing Pain in Dementias: Insights From Interdisciplinary Text 
Message Communications.

Woods A(1), Farmer M(2), Popescu M(3), Powell K(2).

Author information:
(1)Sinclair School of Nursing, School of Nursing, University of Missouri, 
Columbia, MO. Electronic address: awry8@missouri.edu.
(2)Sinclair School of Nursing, School of Nursing, University of Missouri, 
Columbia, MO.
(3)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Biostatistics, and Medical 
Epidemiology, School of Medicine, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to explore the difference between the representation 
of pain assessment and management among older adults with and without 
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD) residing in nursing homes (NH) 
using interdisciplinary text messages (TMs) exchanged prior to hospital 
transfer.
DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study and secondary data analysis of (n = 21,000) 
TMs exchanged among interdisciplinary healthcare team members and survey data 
about NH residents who transferred to the hospital from 2016 to 2020.
METHODS: The study analyzed TMs using natural language processing tools to 
identify mentions of pain assessment, management, and pain medications. We used 
a two-sample independent t-test and a negative binomial generalized linear model 
to assess the association between pain mentions and various resident 
characteristics, including ADRD status.
RESULTS: The analysis included 694 transfer events involving 414 residents, 39% 
of whom had ADRD. Significant differences were found in pain mentions, with ADRD 
residents having fewer mentions (t = 2.38, p = .02) than those without ADRD. The 
generalized linear model identified statistically significant predictors (age, 
race, and specific comorbidities) of the number of TMs exchanged with pain 
mentions about NH residents. Dementia stage and avoidable transfers were not 
significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate pain is underrepresented in communications 
about Black residents and those with ADRD, potentially contributing to 
disparities in pain assessment and management in these populations.
CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: This study indicates a need for more equitable pain 
practices with improved pain assessment tools and pain assessment and 
management, particularly with TM communication in healthcare settings.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmn.2025.04.001
PMCID: PMC12374243
PMID: 40328576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
article.


75. J Neurol Sci. 2025 Jun 15;473:123477. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2025.123477. Epub
2025  Apr 2.

Long-term outcomes of patients with a pre-existing neurological condition after 
SARS-CoV-2 infection.

Hadidchi R(1), Al-Ani Y(1), Choi S(1), Renteria S(1), Duong KS(1), Henry S(1), 
Wang SH(2), Duong TQ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore 
Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore 
Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA; Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess 
Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore 
Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA; Center for Health & Data Innovation, Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA. 
Electronic address: tim.duong@einsteinmed.edu.

OBJECTIVES: This study investigated post COVID-19 outcomes of patients with 
pre-existing neurological conditions up to 3.5 years post-infection.
METHODS: This retrospective study consisted of 1664 patients with COVID-19 (of 
which 1320 had been hospitalized for acute COVID-19) and 8985 non-COVID patients 
from the Montefiore Health System in the Bronx (Jan-2016 to Jul-2023). 
Pre-existing neurological conditions include dementia, mild cognitive 
impairment, multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson's disease. Primary outcomes were 
all-cause mortality and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) 
post-COVID-19. Secondary outcomes were depression, anxiety, fatigue, headache, 
sleep disturbances, altered mental status, and dyspnea post-COVID-19. 
Multivariate Cox proportional hazards model was used to calculate adjusted 
hazard ratios for primary outcomes. Cumulative incidence function and Fine-Gray 
sub-distribution hazards model analysis were performed for secondary outcomes.
RESULTS: Patients with a pre-existing neurological disorders hospitalized for 
COVID-19 were more likely to die (adjusted hazard ratio = 1.90 [CI:1.57, 2.28], 
P < 0.005) whereas patients non-hospitalized for COVID-19 had similar mortality 
rate (aHR = 0.85 [CI:0.47, 1.54]. P = 0.59) compared to non-COVID patients. 
Patients with a neurological disorders (hospitalized for COVID-19 aHR = 1.76 
[CI:1.53, 2.03], P < 0.005; not hospitalized for COVID-19: aHR = 1.50 [CI:1.09, 
2.05], P = 0.01) were more likely to experience a MACE compared to non-COVID-19 
patients. Blacks (aHR = 1.49) and Hispanics (aHR = 1.35) had a higher risk of 
post-COVID-19 MACE. Both hospitalized and non-hospitalized COVID-19 patients 
were more likely to develop altered mental status, fatigue, sleep disturbance, 
dyspnea compared to non-COVID patients (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with pre-existing neurological conditions who contracted 
SARS-CoV-2 were more likely to have worse outcomes compared to controls after 
adjusting for major competing risks. Identifying at-risk individuals could 
enable more diligent follow-up.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2025.123477
PMID: 40328113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.


76. PLoS One. 2025 May 6;20(5):e0309489. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0309489. 
eCollection 2025.

Quantitative 3D histochemistry reveals region-specific amyloid-β reduction by 
the antidiabetic drug netoglitazone.

Catto F(1)(2), Kirschenbaum D(1), Economides AE(1), Reuss AM(1), Trevisan C(1), 
Caredio D(1), Dadgar-Kiani E(3)(4), Mirzet D(1), Frick L(1), Weber-Stadlbauer 
U(3)(4), Litvinov S(5), Koumoutsakos P(5), Lee JH(6)(7)(8)(9), Aguzzi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuropathology, University Hospital Zurich, University of 
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)IMAI MedTech GmbH, Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Institute of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Zurich, 
Zürich, Switzerland.
(4)Neuroscience Center Zurich, University of Zurich and ETH Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(5)Computational Science and Engineering Laboratory, School of Engineering and 
Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge, United States of America.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, 
California, United States of America.
(7)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California, 
United States of America.
(8)Department of Electrical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, 
California, United States of America.
(9)Department of Neurosurgery, Stanford University, Stanford, California, United 
States of America.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Aug 17:2024.08.15.608042. doi: 10.1101/2024.08.15.608042.

A hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the extracellular aggregation of toxic 
amyloid-beta (Aβ) peptides in form of plaques. Here, we identify netoglitazone, 
an antidiabetic compound previously tested in humans, as an Aβ aggregation 
antagonist. Netoglitazone improved cognition and reduced microglia activity in a 
mouse model of AD. Using quantitative whole-brain three-dimensional histology 
(Q3D), we precisely identified brain regions where netoglitazone reduced the 
number and size of Aβ plaques. We demonstrate the utility of Q3D in preclinical 
drug evaluation for AD by providing a high-resolution brain-wide view of drug 
efficacy. Applying Q3D has the potential to improve pre-clinical drug evaluation 
by providing information that can help identify mechanisms leading to brain 
region-specific drug efficacy.

Copyright: This is an open access article, free of all copyright, and may be 
freely reproduced, distributed, transmitted, modified, built upon, or otherwise 
used by anyone for any lawful purpose. The work is made available under the 
Creative Commons CC0 public domain dedication.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0309489
PMCID: PMC12054868
PMID: 40327707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


77. PLoS One. 2025 May 6;20(5):e0320883. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0320883. 
eCollection 2025.

Protective potential of BM-MSC extracted Exosomes in a rat model of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Sadeghi A(1), Noorbakhshnia M(1), Khodashenas S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant and Animal Biology, Faculty of Biological Science and 
Technology, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Advanced Technologies in 
Medicine, Thalassemia Research Center, Hemoglobinopathy Institute, Mazandaran 
University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.

Exosomes are extracellular vesicles, which are released into the extracellular 
space by all types of cells, especially stem cells. Compared with stem cells, 
exosomes are safer and can be considered one of the most promising therapeutic 
strategies for neurodegenerative disease. We examined the effect of exosomes 
derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSC) on a rat model of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). For this purpose, male Wistar rats weighing 220-250 g 
were used. For the induction of AD, rats received a daily dosage of 100 mg/kg 
Aluminum chloride (Alcl3) by oral gavage for 60 days. Also, Primary BM-MSC was 
extracted from the femora of Wistar rats (male, 100-150 g). Extracted exosomes 
were Characterized and Qualified using TEM Microscope and Zetasizer Nano. 
Specific markers of exosomes were evaluated by Flow cytometry. MSC-extracted 
exosomes (150 µg/µl) were injected 2 or 5 times into the animals via tail vein 
on specific days. Our data revealed that receiving exosomes significantly 
prevented AlCl3-induced enhancement of hippocampal APP gene expression, 
beta-amyloid plaque formation, impairment of passive avoidance learning and 
spatial memory. However, exosome injections in healthy subjects caused some 
negative effects such as spatial memory impairment. It seems, MSC-derived 
exosomes can be considered as a candidate to prevent AD progression.

Copyright: © 2025 Sadeghi et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0320883
PMCID: PMC12054907
PMID: 40327601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


78. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Sep;62(9):11822-11833. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05017-x.
Epub  2025 May 6.

A Ginsenoside Composition Ameliorated Aβ and Tau Aggregation via Autophagy 
Lysosome Pathway.

Zhao C(1)(2), Yue J(1), Xie Y(1)(2), Liu B(1)(2), Xu S(1), Zhi D(3)(4), Wang 
D(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Lanzhou University, No. 199 Donggang West Road, Lanzhou, 
Gansu, 730000, China.
(2)Frontiers Science Center for Rare Isotopes, No. 222 Tianshui South Road, 
Lanzhou, Gansu, 730000, China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Lanzhou University, No. 199 Donggang West Road, Lanzhou, 
Gansu, 730000, China. zhidej@lzu.edu.cn.
(4)Frontiers Science Center for Rare Isotopes, No. 222 Tianshui South Road, 
Lanzhou, Gansu, 730000, China. zhidej@lzu.edu.cn.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Lanzhou University, No. 199 Donggang West Road, Lanzhou, 
Gansu, 730000, China. dswang@lzu.edu.cn.
(6)Frontiers Science Center for Rare Isotopes, No. 222 Tianshui South Road, 
Lanzhou, Gansu, 730000, China. dswang@lzu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder characterized 
by the abnormal deposition of amyloid-beta (Aβ) peptides and neurofibrillary 
tangles (NFTs). Ginsenosides, the primary active constituents in ginseng, 
exhibit potential in combating AD. In our previous work, the ginsenoside SumI 
was demonstrated to have superior anti-AD activity compared to other 
ginsenosides when used alone. This study revealed that SumI effectively 
decreased the lysosomal pH, promoted autophagosome formation, increased 
autophagic flux, and facilitated the transport of misfolded proteins to 
lysosomes for degradation in Caenorhabditis elegans. SumI activated the HLH-30 
transcription factor by triggering a lipid-catabolic response akin to 
starvation. bec-1 RNAi significantly abrogated the anti-AD effect of SumI. Our 
findings indicate that SumI mitigated protein aggregation by activating the 
autophagy-lysosome pathway in C. elegans and provide scientific evidence that 
ginsenoside composition could be a potential therapeutic agent for treating or 
preventing AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05017-x
PMID: 40327308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


79. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 May 6. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-05003-3. Online ahead of 
print.

Advancements in Stem Cell Research for Effective Therapies Against Alzheimer's 
Disease: Current Investigation and Future Insight.

Gupta A(1), Ghosh A(1), Sharma N(1), Gorain B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technology, Birla Institute of 
Technology, Mesra, Ranchi, Jharkhand, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technology, Birla Institute of 
Technology, Mesra, Ranchi, Jharkhand, India. bapi.gn@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent cause of dementia in the elderly, 
affecting approximately 50 million individuals globally with significant impose 
in health and financial burdens. Despite extensive research, no current 
treatment effectively halts the progression of AD, primarily due to its complex 
pathophysiology of the disease and the limitations of available therapeutic 
approaches. In this context, stem cell transplantation has emerged as a 
promising treatment strategy, harnessing the regenerative capabilities of 
various stem cell types, including neural stem cells (NSCs), embryonic stem 
cells (ESCs), and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). This review explores the 
potential of stem cell-based therapies in AD, emphasizing the necessity for 
continued innovation to overcome existing challenges and enhance therapeutic 
efficacy. Briefly, NSCs have shown potential in improving cognitive function and 
reducing AD pathology through targeted transplantation and neuroprotection; 
however, challenges such as optimizing transplantation protocols and ensuring 
effective cell integration persist. Concurrently, ESCs, with their pluripotent 
nature, present opportunities for modulating AD and generating therapeutic 
neurons, but ethical concerns and immunogenicity present significant obstacles 
to clinical application. Moreover, MSCs have demonstrated potential in 
ameliorating AD-related pathology and promoting neurogenesis, offering a more 
accessible alternative with fewer ethical constraints. The review concludes that 
the combinatory approaches of different stem cells may provide synergistic 
benefits in addressing AD-related pathophysiology, warranting further 
exploration in future research.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-05003-3
PMID: 40327307

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


80. Mol Biol Rep. 2025 May 6;52(1):445. doi: 10.1007/s11033-025-10543-x.

MicroRNAs modulation by curcumin, catalpol, and other natural products in 
Alzheimer's disease: a review.

Chahardehi AM(1), Arefnezhad R(1)(2), Pourbafrani A(3), Tajik L(4), Asadi SA(5), 
Salehi H(6), Yazdanian S(7), Nakhaee A(8), Esfahani MS(9), Behzad P(10), Haghani 
H(1)(11), Niknam Z(12), Sefati N(13), Rezaei-Tazangi F(14), Tavakoli MR(15).

Author information:
(1)Coenzyme R Research Institute, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Student Research Committee, Fasa University of Medical Sciences, Fasa, Iran.
(3)Department of Motor Behavior, Faculty of Physical Education, Allameh Tabatbai 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Islamic Azad University Tehran Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(5)Birjand University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran.
(6)Department of Physiology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(7)Hamedan University of Medical Sciences, Hamedan, Iran.
(8)Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(9)Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.
(10)Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(11)Department of Biotechnology, Islamic Azad University, Yadegar-e-Imam 
Khomeini (RAH) City of Rey Branch, Tehran, Iran.
(12)Neurophysiology Research Center, Cellular and Molecular Medicine Research 
Institute, Urmia University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran. 
niknam_zahra@yahoo.com.
(13)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Arak University of Medical 
Sciences, Arak, Iran. N.sefati@arakmu.ac.ir.
(14)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Fasa University of Medical 
Sciences, Fasa, Iran. f.rezaei67@yahoo.com.
(15)Pharmaceutical Sciences and Cosmetic Products Research Center, Kerman 
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with 
limited pharmacological treatment options, necessitating the exploration of 
alternative therapeutic strategies. Emerging evidence suggests that microRNAs 
(miRNAs), such as miR-132, miR-34a, and miR-124, play crucial roles in AD 
pathogenesis, influencing amyloid-beta (Aβ) aggregation, tau phosphorylation, 
neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress. Natural products have been identified 
as potential modulators of miRNA expression, offering neuroprotective benefits 
through multi-target mechanisms. This review systematically examines the impact 
of curcumin, catalpol, Allium jesdianum, Tanshinone IIA (Tan IIA), and Tiaoxin 
Recipe (TXR) on miRNA regulation in AD, summarizing their molecular targets and 
therapeutic potential. Furthermore, we discuss challenges related to 
bioavailability and clinical translation, highlighting the need for advanced 
delivery systems and personalized medicine approaches. By integrating recent 
findings, this review provides a comprehensive perspective on the role of miRNA 
modulation in AD therapy and underscores the potential of natural products as 
novel therapeutic agents.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-025-10543-x
PMID: 40327129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Ethical issues (including plagiarism, data fabrication, double 
publication) have been completely observed by the authors. Competing interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests.


81. Neural Regen Res. 2026 Feb 1;21(2):478-490. doi: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-00720. 
Epub 2024 Oct 22.

Exosomes in neurodegenerative diseases: Therapeutic potential and modification 
methods.

Chen H(1)(2), Li N(2), Cai Y(2)(3), Ma C(2), Ye Y(2), Shi X(2), Guo J(2), Han 
Z(4), Liu Y(2), Wei X(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & 
Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Separation Membrane and Membrane Process & Tianjin 
Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Detection Technology and Systems, School of 
Life Sciences, Tiangong University, Tianjin, China.
(3)School of Intelligent Information Engineering, Medicine & Technology College 
of Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, Guizhou Province, China.
(4)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Engineering Technologies for Cell Pharmaceuticals, 
National Engineering Research Center of Cell Products, AmCellGene Co., Ltd., 
Tianjin, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Translational Research (Ministry of 
Education/Beijing), Cancer Hospital & Institute, International Cancer Institute, 
Institute of Medical Technology, Peking University Health Science Center, 
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, China.

In recent years, exosomes have garnered extensive attention as therapeutic 
agents and early diagnostic markers in neurodegenerative disease research. 
Exosomes are small and can effectively cross the blood-brain barrier, allowing 
them to target deep brain lesions. Recent studies have demonstrated that 
exosomes derived from different cell types may exert therapeutic effects by 
regulating the expression of various inflammatory cytokines, mRNAs, and 
disease-related proteins, thereby halting the progression of neurodegenerative 
diseases and exhibiting beneficial effects. However, exosomes are composed of 
lipid bilayer membranes and lack the ability to recognize specific target cells. 
This limitation can lead to side effects and toxicity when they interact with 
non-specific cells. Growing evidence suggests that surface-modified exosomes 
have enhanced targeting capabilities and can be used as targeted drug-delivery 
vehicles that show promising results in the treatment of neurodegenerative 
diseases. In this review, we provide an up-to-date overview of existing research 
aimed at devising approaches to modify exosomes and elucidating their 
therapeutic potential in neurodegenerative diseases. Our findings indicate that 
exosomes can efficiently cross the blood-brain barrier to facilitate drug 
delivery and can also serve as early diagnostic markers for neurodegenerative 
diseases. We introduce the strategies being used to enhance exosome targeting, 
including genetic engineering, chemical modifications (both covalent, such as 
click chemistry and metabolic engineering, and non-covalent, such as polyvalent 
electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions, ligand-receptor binding, 
aptamer-based modifications, and the incorporation of CP05-anchored peptides), 
and nanomaterial modifications. Research into these strategies has confirmed 
that exosomes have significant therapeutic potential for neurodegenerative 
diseases. However, several challenges remain in the clinical application of 
exosomes. Improvements are needed in preparation, characterization, and 
optimization methods, as well as in reducing the adverse reactions associated 
with their use. Additionally, the range of applications and the safety of 
exosomes require further research and evaluation.

Copyright © 2024 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-00720
PMCID: PMC12220696
PMID: 40326981

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: All authors declare that 
there is no conflict of interest in this manuscript. No conflicts of interest 
exist between AmCellGene Co., Ltd. and the publication of this manuscript.


82. FASEB J. 2025 May 15;39(9):e70604. doi: 10.1096/fj.202403078R.

Loss of ADAP1/CentA1 Protects Against Autoimmune Demyelination.

Carver JJ(1), Bunner WP(2)(3), Denbrock RR(1), Yin C(4), Huang W(4), Szatmari 
EM(2), Didonna A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Brody School of Medicine, East 
Carolina University, Greenville, North Carolina, USA.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Allied Health Sciences, East 
Carolina University, Greenville, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Center for Immunotherapy & Precision Immuno-Oncology, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Brody School of Medicine, 
East Carolina University, Greenville, North Carolina, USA.

ArfGAP with dual PH domain-containing protein 1 (ADAP1), also known as Centaurin 
alpha-1 (CentA1), is an actin-binding protein highly expressed in the central 
nervous system (CNS) that was previously shown to regulate dendritic spine 
density and plasticity. In the context of disease, ADAP1/CentA1 has been linked 
to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis, cancer progression, and human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reactivation. Here, we document that ADAP1/CentA1 
is also mechanistically involved in CNS autoimmunity. We show that ADAP1/CentA1 
deficient mice exhibit partial resistance to developing experimental autoimmune 
encephalomyelitis (EAE), an in vivo disease model recapitulating several 
features of multiple sclerosis (MS) pathogenesis. MS is a chronic autoimmune 
disorder of the CNS characterized by focal immune cell infiltration, 
demyelination, and axonal injury. Its etiology is still elusive, but genetic and 
environmental factors contribute to disease risk. By combining detailed 
immunophenotyping and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), we demonstrate 
that ADAP1/CentA1 is necessary for mounting a sufficient autoimmune response for 
EAE initiation and progression. In particular, the current study highlights that 
ADAP1/CentA1 expression in the immune system mainly targets the functioning of 
regulatory T cells (Tregs), monocytes, and natural killer (NK) cells. In 
summary, our study defines a novel function for ADAP/CentA1 outside of the CNS 
and helps elucidate the early molecular events taking place in the peripheral 
immune system in response to encephalitogenic challenges.

© 2025 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.202403078R
PMCID: PMC12054340
PMID: 40326762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


83. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2025 Jun 10;80(7):gbaf086. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbaf086.

Perceived Control, Cognitive Training, and Incident Alzheimer's Disease and 
Related Dementias in the ACTIVE Study.

Zahodne LB(1), Miller K(2), Sun C(2), Sharifian N(1), Parisi JM(3), Rebok GW(3), 
Aiken-Morgan AT(4), Gross AL(3)(5), Thomas KR(6)(7), Felix C(8), Coe NB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Department of Mental Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill - 
School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(6)Research Service, VA San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, California, USA.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, University of California San Diego School of 
Medicine, La Jolla, California, USA.
(8)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Greater perception of control over important life outcomes has been 
linked to better cognitive performance and greater benefits from cognitive 
training interventions among older adults. However, it is not yet known whether 
perceived control predicts incident Alzheimer's disease and related dementias 
(ADRD) or influences links between cognitive training and ADRD incidence.
METHODS: Data were obtained from 2,021 participants in the Advanced Cognitive 
Training for Independent and Vital Elderly (ACTIVE) trial. Baseline perceived 
control was measured with the Personality in Intellectual Aging Contexts 
Inventory. Incident diagnosed ADRD over 20 years was operationalized using 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services claims data. Main effects of 
perceived control and interactions between perceived control and intervention 
group (reasoning, memory, speed, control) on diagnosed ADRD incidence were 
estimated using cause-specific hazard models.
RESULTS: Greater perceived control at study baseline was associated with reduced 
hazard of ADRD. Perceived control did not moderate associations between 
intervention group and time to ADRD diagnosis.
DISCUSSION: Strengthening perceived control through individual and/or 
environmental interventions may lower ADRD risk.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbaf086
PMCID: PMC12343038
PMID: 40326605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


84. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2025 Jun 10;80(7):gbaf085. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbaf085.

Development of Simple Risk Scores for Prediction of Brain β-Amyloid and Tau 
Status in Older Adults With Mild Cognitive Impairment: A Machine Learning 
Approach.

Petersen KK(1), Nallapu BT(2), Lipton RB(2), Grober E(2), Davatzikos C(3), 
Harvey DJ(4), Nasrallah IM(3), Ezzati A(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(2)Saul R. Korey Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 
Bronx, New York, USA.
(3)Center for Biomedical Image Computing and Analytics, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California, Davis, Davis, 
California, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, 
California, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this work is to use a machine learning framework to 
develop simple risk scores for predicting β-amyloid (Aβ) and tau positivity 
among individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
METHODS: Data for 657 individuals with MCI from the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) data set were used. A modified version of 
AutoScore, a machine learning-based software tool, was used to develop risk 
scores based on hierarchical combinations of predictor categories, including 
demographics, neuropsychological assessments, APOE4 status, and imaging 
biomarkers.
RESULTS: The highest area under the receiver operating characteristic curve 
(AUC) for predicting Aβ positivity was 0.79, which was achieved by 2 separate 
models with predictors of age, Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive 
Subscale (ADAS-cog), APOE4 status, and either Trail Making Test Part B (TMT-B) 
or white matter hyperintensity. The best-performing model for tau positivity had 
an AUC of 0.91 using age, ADAS-13, and TMT-B scores, APOE4 information, abnormal 
hippocampal volume, and amyloid status as predictors.
DISCUSSION: Simple integer-based risk scores using available data could be used 
for predicting Aβ and tau positivity in individuals with MCI. Models have the 
potential to improve clinical trials through improved screening of individuals.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbaf085
PMCID: PMC12202008
PMID: 40326513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: R. B. Lipton receives research support from the 
following sources unrelated to this manuscript: 5U10 NS077308 (PI), R21 AG056920 
(Investigator), 1RF1 AG057531 (Site PI), RF1 AG054548 (Investigator), 1RO1 
AG048642 (Investigator), R56 AG057548 (Investigator), U01062370 (Investigator), 
RO1 AG060933 (Investigator), RO1 AG062622 (Investigator), 1UG3FD006795 (mPI), 
1U24NS113847 (Investigator). He holds stock or options in Biohaven Holdings and 
in Manistee; serves as consultant, advisory board member, or has received 
honoraria from: Abbvie (Allergan), American Academy of Neurology, American 
Headache Society, Amgen, Biohaven, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Grifols, Lundbeck 
(Alder), Merck, Pfizer, Teva, Vector, Vedanta. He receives royalties from 
Wolff’s Headache 7th and 8th Editions, Oxford Press University, 2009, Wiley and 
Informa. All other authors (K. K. Petersen, B. T. Nallapu, E. Grober, C. 
Davatzikos, D. J. Harvey, I. M. Nasrallah, and A. Ezzati) report no disclosures 
relevant to the manuscript.


85. Anal Methods. 2025 May 15;17(19):4027-4036. doi: 10.1039/d5ay00267b.

Detection of donepezil concentration in serum by solid-phase extraction liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometry based on magnetic molecularly imprinted 
polymer.

Wu S(1)(2), Kan Y(2), Xiao P(2), Yang Y(1), Li H(2), Zhang W(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Materials and Chemistry, China Jiliang University, Hangzhou 
310018, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Chemical Metrology and Applications on Nutrition, Health, 
State Administration for Market Regulation, Division of Chemical Metrology and 
Analytical Science, National Institute of Metrology, Beijing 100029, China. 
lihm@nim.ac.cn.

Donepezil is a drug used to treat Alzheimer's disease, and its efficacy is 
closely related to the concentration of the drug in the serum. Therefore, 
monitoring the concentration of donepezil in the serum is crucial for evaluating 
the treatment effect and avoiding adverse reactions. In this study, a new method 
for determining the concentration of donepezil in serum was established by 
combining magnetic molecularly imprinted polymers (MMIPs) and liquid 
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) technology. The prepared 
magnetic molecularly imprinted polymers were characterized by scanning electron 
microscopy (SEM), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), and 
transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to confirm that the polymer had effective 
imprinting and good magnetic responsivity. The adsorption experiment showed that 
the MMIPs had a saturated adsorption capacity of 15.4 mg g-1 for donepezil and 
the adsorption behavior followed the quasi-second-order kinetic model. The 
adsorption of donepezil by MMIPs was a chemical adsorption process. Finally, by 
combining LC-MS/MS technology, the method successfully achieved rapid, high 
selectivity, and high specificity separation and enrichment detection of 
donepezil in serum. The linear range of the method for donepezil in serum was 
25-200 ng mL-1, the lowest detection limit was 0.33 ng mL-1, the recovery was 
98.7-102.6%, and the relative standard deviation (RSD) was 1.2-4.5% (n = 3). The 
experiment confirmed that the method is simple and effective for detecting 
donepezil in serum.

DOI: 10.1039/d5ay00267b
PMID: 40326330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2025 May;31(5):e70403. doi: 10.1111/cns.70403.

NLRP3 Inflammasome in Vascular Dementia: Regulatory Mechanisms, Functions, and 
Therapeutic Implications: A Comprehensive Review.

Lu Y(1)(2), Cheng L(2)(3), Xiong Y(2)(4), Huang C(2), Liu Z(1)(2), Shen C(1)(2), 
Wang H(1)(2), Qiu Y(1)(2), Yang SB(5), Wu M(2), Zhang X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Clinical Medical School of Jiujiang University, 
Jiujiang, Jiangxi, China.
(2)Jiujiang Clinical Precision Medicine Research Center, Jiujiang, Jiangxi, 
China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Clinical Medical School of Jiujiang University, 
Jiujiang, Jiangxi, China.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation, Clinical Medical School of Jiujiang University, 
Jiujiang, Jiangxi, China.
(5)Department of Paramedicine, Wonkwang Health Science University, Iksan, 
Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Vascular dementia, the second most common type of dementia globally 
after Alzheimer's disease, is associated with neuroinflammation. Activation of 
the NLRP3 inflammasome, an important pattern recognition receptor in human 
innate immunity, plays a key role in the pathogenesis of vascular dementia.
RESULTS: The NLRP3 inflammasome pathway destroys neuronal cells primarily 
through the production of IL-18 and IL-1β. Moreover, it exacerbates vascular 
dementia by producing IL-18, IL-1β, and the N-terminal fragment of GSDMD, which 
also contributes to neuronal cell death. Thus, blocking the NLRP3 inflammasome 
pathway presents a new therapeutic strategy for treating vascular dementia, 
thereby delaying or curing the disease more effectively and mitigating adverse 
effects.
CONCLUSIONS: This review explores the role and mechanisms of the NLRP3 
inflammasome in vascular dementia, summarizing current research and therapeutic 
strategies. Investigating the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome can reveal 
the pathogenesis of vascular dementia from a new perspective and propose 
innovative preventive and treatment strategies.

© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.70403
PMCID: PMC12052953
PMID: 40326096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


87. Ann Pharmacother. 2025 May 6:10600280251328530. doi:
10.1177/10600280251328530.  Online ahead of print.

Effects of Cholinesterase Inhibitor Medication on QTc Interval in Memory Clinic 
Patients.

Isotalo HK(1)(2), Lehtovaara JK(3), Ekblad LL(1)(2)(4), Nuotio MS(1), Langén 
VLJ(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Turku University 
Hospital, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(2)Southwest Finland Wellbeing Services County, Turku, Finland.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(4)Turku PET Centre, Turku University Hospital, University of Turku, Turku, 
Finland.
(5)Division of Medicine, Turku University Hospital, University of Turku, Turku, 
Finland.

BACKGROUND: Cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs)-donepezil, rivastigmine, and 
galantamine-are beneficial in treating Alzheimer disease (AD). However, due to 
their impact on extra-cerebral acetylcholine signaling, concerns about cardiac 
adverse effects, including QT interval prolongation, persist. Despite this, 
evidence-based guidelines for electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring during ChEI 
treatment are lacking, and prior studies on ChEIs and corrected QT intervals 
(QTc) yield inconsistent findings.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the association between ChEI use and 
changes in QTc intervals among older adults.
METHODS: We collected retrospective data from first-time visitors to the 
geriatric memory clinic of Turku City Hospital in 2017 and 2019. We included 
patients who were newly prescribed ChEIs and had ECG data available (n = 126, 
mean age 81.1 years, 56.3% female). QTc prolongation was defined as ≥460 ms in 
females and ≥450 ms in men. Paired t tests compared QTc means before and during 
ChEI use, and McNemar tests analyzed changes in the proportion of prolonged QTc.
RESULTS: Mean ± SD QTc (ms) before versus during ChEI use was: 420.8 ± 24.0 
versus 423.9 ± 28.0 (P = .13) for donepezil; 416.0 ± 20.4 versus 416.5 ± 26.1 (P 
= .92) for galantamine; 416.1 ± 22.3 versus 409.6 ± 20.1 (P = .30) for 
rivastigmine; and 419.7 ± 23.4 versus 421.5 ± 27.3 (P = .34) for all ChEIs. 
Prolonged QTc occurred in 7.9% of patients before versus 12.7% during ChEI use 
(P = .21).
CONCLUSION AND RELEVANCE: We found no statistically significant association 
between ChEI use and QTc interval prolongation or an increased proportion of 
pathological QTc values during ChEI treatment. Larger studies are warranted to 
establish evidence-based recommendations on ECG monitoring during ChEI 
medication.

DOI: 10.1177/10600280251328530
PMID: 40326082


88. Sheng Li Xue Bao. 2025 Apr 25;77(2):327-344. doi: 10.13294/j.aps.2025.0029.

[Therapeutic potential of ion channel modulation in Alzheimer's disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang B(#)(1), Yang CM(#)(2), Lu ZC(1), Tang LN(1), Mo SL(2), Jian CD(2)(3), 
Shang JW(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Youjiang Medical University for Nationalities, Baise 
533000, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, the Affiliated Hospital of Youjiang Medical 
University for Nationalities, Baise 533000, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Metabolic Diseases in Baise City, Baise 533000, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a prototypical neurodegenerative disorder, encompasses 
multifaceted pathological processes. As pivotal cellular structures within the 
central nervous system, ion channels play critical roles in regulating neuronal 
excitability, synaptic transmission, and neurotransmitter release. Extensive 
research has revealed significant alterations in the expression and function of 
ion channels in AD, implicating an important role of ion channels in the 
pathogenesis of abnormal Aβ deposition, neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and 
disruptions in calcium homeostasis and neural network functionality. This review 
systematically summarizes the crucial roles and underlying mechanisms of ion 
channels in the onset and progression of AD, highlighting how these channel 
abnormalities contribute to AD pathophysiology. We also discuss the therapeutic 
potential of ion channel modulation in AD treatment, emphasizing the importance 
of addressing multifactorial nature and heterogeneity of AD. The development of 
multi-target drugs and precision therapies is proposed as a future direction of 
scientific research.

DOI: 10.13294/j.aps.2025.0029
PMID: 40326076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Sheng Li Xue Bao. 2025 Apr 25;77(2):309-317. doi: 10.13294/j.aps.2025.0025.

[Research progress of the dopamine system in neurological diseases].

[Article in Chinese]

Niu YQ(1), Wang JJ(1), Cui WF(1), Qin P(1), Gao JF(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou 450046, 
China.

The etiology of nervous system diseases is complicated, posing significant harm 
to patients and often resulting in poor prognoses. In recent years, the role of 
dopaminergic system in nervous system diseases has attracted much attention, and 
its complex regulatory mechanism and therapeutic potential have been gradually 
revealed. This paper reviews the role of dopaminergic neurons, the 
neurotransmitter dopamine, dopamine receptors and dopamine transporters in 
neurological diseases (including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and 
schizophrenia), with a view to further elucidating the disease mechanism and 
providing new insights and strategies for the treatment of neurological 
diseases.

DOI: 10.13294/j.aps.2025.0025
PMID: 40326074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(2):646-652. doi: 10.1177/13872877251338687.
Epub  2025 Jul 1.

Angiogenesis promotion of the transplantation of human amniotic mesenchymal stem 
cells via the Ang-1/Tie-2 signaling pathways in Alzheimer's disease model.

Wu R(1), Guo J(1), Liu Y(1), Huang S(2), Wu P(2), Liu W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain Hospital, Xi'an People's Hospital (Xi'an Fourth 
Hospital), Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, China.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an, Shanxi 
Province, China.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive degenerative disease of the 
central nervous system, leading to cognitive decline, mental symptoms, and 
behavioral disorders. The comorbidity of cerebrovascular disease in AD patients 
will accelerate the development of cognitive impairment and dementia. Since the 
dysfunction of the cerebral vasculature is closely related to neuropathology in 
AD patients, the protection of cerebral microvascular function and the 
improvement of cerebral microcirculation may bring a potential path for AD 
treatment. Human amniotic mesenchymal cells (hAMSCs) as a more advantageous 
cellular therapy for AD are proven to improve AD model mice's learning and 
memory abilities significantly, but fewer studies on angiogenesis and 
blood-brain barrier recovery have been found.ObjectiveThe study aimed to analyze 
the changes in angiogenesis-related factors of hAMSCs transplantation in the AD 
model and explore the underlying molecular mechanism.MethodshAMSCs were injected 
into APP/PS1 and wild type (WT) mice via tail vein, and the hAMSCs distribution 
in the cerebral tissue and angiogenesis in the hippocampal tissues were 
observed.ResultshAMSCs were found in the cortex and hippocampal areas of APP/PS1 
and WT mice. hAMSCs transplantation significantly increased CD31 and Tie-2 
expression in AD mice compared with the control group.ConclusionsThe study 
indicates that hAMSCs can cross the blood-brain barrier and enter the cerebral 
tissue of the mouse, transplantation of hAMSCs may promote angiogenesis in the 
AD model. The Ang-1/Tie-2 signaling pathway may be a therapeutically attractive 
target for the hAMSCs treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251338687
PMID: 40326004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


91. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(1):94-110. doi: 10.1177/13872877251338323.
Epub  2025 May 5.

Immunocal(®), a cysteine-rich whey protein, rescues reelin and reduces amyloid 
plaque burden in a transgenic amyloid-β protein precursor (hAβPP(SweInd)) mouse 
model of Alzheimer's disease.

Sandberg A(1), Puttagunta S(1), Duval N(2), Fleming H(2), Koza L(1), Hieber 
K(1), Holsopple J(1), Reyna M(1), Paredes D(2), Linseman DA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Denver, Denver, CO, USA.
(2)Knoebel Institute for Healthy Aging, University of Denver, Denver, CO, USA.

BackgroundDeficits in Reelin expression play a significant role in the 
pathogenesis of various neurological disorders, including schizophrenia and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Notably, Reelin-expressing neurons of the entorhinal 
cortex layer II are among the first to be affected in AD.ObjectiveStrategies 
aimed at correcting deficits in Reelin might provide a novel therapeutic 
approach for AD.MethodsHere, we examined the effects of the whey protein 
supplement and glutathione (GSH) precursor, Immunocal®, on Reelin expression 
both in vitro in hippocampal-entorhinal cortex slices from rat brain and in vivo 
in the hAβPPSweInd (J20) mouse model of AD.ResultsIncubation of brain slices 
with Immunocal® increased Reelin expression at the mRNA and protein levels. Oral 
treatment with Immunocal®, given ad libitum in drinking water beginning at 3 
months of age, corrected a deficit in cortical GSH levels observed in untreated 
mice and preserved Reelin expression in the hippocampal-entorhinal cortex 
sub-region of 5-month-old J20 mice. We also assessed the long-term effects of 
Immunocal® by treating J20 mice from 3 months old to 12 months old. Long-term 
Immunocal® treatment preserved brain GSH and rescued Reelin mRNA and protein 
expression, while significantly reducing amyloid plaque formation in the 
entorhinal cortex and hippocampus of AD mice.ConclusionsThese findings suggest 
that Immunocal® promotes Reelin expression in vitro and sustains brain GSH and 
Reelin expression while diminishing amyloid plaque load in the entorhinal cortex 
and hippocampus of J20 mice. Thus, Immunocal® offers a promising therapeutic 
approach to enhance Reelin expression and curtail amyloid deposition in AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251338323
PMID: 40325994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Daniel Linseman is a 
member of the Scientific Advisory Board for Immunotec, Inc. (Quebec, Canada), 
the manufacturer of Immunocal®.


92. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(1):317-330. doi: 10.1177/13872877251339484.
Epub  2025 May 5.

Codonopsis pilosula polysaccharides alleviate neuronal apoptosis induced by 
endoplasmic reticulum stress-activated PERK-ATF4-CHOP signaling in APP/PS1 mice.

Cai Y(1)(2)(3), Wang X(2), Xiang Y(1)(3)(4), Wang Z(1)(3)(4), Long Q(2), Zeng 
C(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Yunnan Province for Research and Prevention of 
Neuropsychiatric Disorders with Traditional Chinese Medicine, Yunnan Provincial 
Department of Education, Yunnan University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(2)Health Science Center, Hubei Minzu University, Enshi, Hubei, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Yunnan Province for Chronic Disease Prevention and 
Treatment with Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Yunnan 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(4)Basic Medical College, Yunnan University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Kunming, Yunnan, China.

BackgroundCodonopsis polysaccharides (CPPs) shows neuroprotective potential in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and may reduce neuronal apoptosis by modulating 
endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS).ObjectiveTo investigate the protective 
mechanisms of CPPs against neuronal apoptosis in APP/PS1 mice, focusing on the 
ERS response and the PERK-ATF4-CHOP signaling pathway.MethodsAPP/PS1 mice were 
orally administered CPPs at different doses. Their learning and memory abilities 
were evaluated using the Morris water maze (MWM). The integrity of hippocampal 
neurons and senile plaque deposition were assessed using histopathology, 
immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence. The expression of amyloid-β (Aβ) 
plaques secretase protein, ERS markers, and apoptosis-related proteins was 
assessed using western blot analyses. The affinity of the PERK-ATF4-CHOP pathway 
and CPPs was analyzed and assessed using molecular docking.ResultsMWM testing 
revealed that CPPs improved the learning and memory abilities of APP/PS1 mice. 
Histopathological examination confirmed that CPPs reduced hippocampal neuronal 
apoptosis. Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence analysis showed that CPPs 
decreased Aβ protein expression and ERS. Western blot analysis further confirmed 
that CPPs reduced the expression of proteins related to Aβ synthesis; 
downregulated the expression of glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), PERK, 
ATF4, CHOP, and Bcl-2 associated X protein (Bax), while upregulating the 
expression of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2).ConclusionsThis study demonstrates that 
CPPs exert neuroprotective effects by targeting the PERK-ATF4-CHOP signaling 
pathway and alleviating ERS, suggesting a novel approach and potential 
therapeutic agent for AD treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251339484
PMID: 40325880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


93. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jul;106(1):151-166. doi: 10.1177/13872877251339762.
Epub  2025 May 5.

EPRCN exerts neuroprotective function by regulating gut microbiota and restoring 
gut immune homeostasis in Alzheimer's disease model mice.

Li MJ(1)(2)(3), Lan MN(2), Du YX(2), Liu Y(2), Zhang HY(2), Guo M(2), Liu SW(4), 
Xia HY(2), Wu ZJ(1)(3), Zheng HJ(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Shanghai-MOST Key Laboratory of Health and Disease Genomics, NHC Key Lab of 
Reproduction Regulation, Shanghai Institute for Biomedical and Pharmaceutical 
Technologies, Shanghai, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology, Shanghai Engineering Research 
Center of Dairy Biotechnology, Dairy Research Institute, Bright Dairy & Food 
Co., Ltd, Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai Xizuo Biotechnology Co., Ltd, Shanghai, China.

BackgroundNo effective drug treatment is currently available for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), highlighting the urgent need to develop efficient therapeutic 
options. We have developed a formula based on medicine and food homology (MFH) 
consisting of egg yolk oil, perilla seed oil, raphani seed oil, cinnamon oil, 
and noni puree (EPRCN), and demonstrated that it can treat AD by alleviating 
neuroinflammation and oxidative stress. However, whether EPRCN can improve AD by 
regulating gut microbiota remains unknown.ObjectiveThe current study aimed to 
evaluate the effect of EPRCN on regulating gut microbiota and 
neuroprotection.Methods16S rRNA sequencing was used to assess the structure of 
gut microbiota. Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining, qRT-PCR, and ELISA were used to 
evaluate gut inflammation. Detected indexes associated with cholinergic 
dysfunction and neuronal damage to investigate the neuroprotective effects of 
EPRCN.Results16S rRNA gene analysis revealed that EPRCN remodeled the gut 
microbiota, inhibited gut metabolic disorders, and promoted CoA biosynthesis in 
scopolamine-induced mice. EPRCN can ameliorates gut inflammation by activating 
the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway. The results further indicated that 
EPRCN improved cholinergic dysfunction by inhibiting the activity of 
acetylcholinesterase and restoring cholinergic receptors. Additionally, EPRCN 
administration suppressed the neuronal loss and elevated brain derived 
neurotrophic factor expression in hippocampus. Correlation analysis found that 
alteration of several gut microbes was associated with indexes improved by 
EPRCN.ConclusionsThese findings suggest that EPRCN may serve as a promising 
dietary intervention for treating AD by regulating the microbiota-gut-brain axis 
and exerting neuroprotective function.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251339762
PMID: 40325871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Authors Ming-Jie Li 
and Zheng-Jun Wu was employed by Bright Dairy & Food Co., Ltd Author Shi-Wei Liu 
was employed by Shanghai Xizuo Biotechnology Co., Ltd The remaining authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


94. FEBS Open Bio. 2025 Aug;15(8):1350-1364. doi: 10.1002/2211-5463.70046. Epub
2025  May 5.

Neurotoxic amyloid β-peptide and tau produce cytokine-like effects on PMCA in 
glioblastoma cell lines, enhancing its activity and isoforms expression.

Berrocal M(1)(2), Alvarez-Barrientos A(3), Mata AM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular y Genética, Facultad de 
Ciencias, Universidad de Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Biomarcadores de Patologías Moleculares (IBPM), Universidad de 
Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain.
(3)Servicio de Técnicas Aplicadas a la Biociencia (STAB), Edificio Guadiana, 
SAIUEx, Universidad de Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain.

The transformation of astrocytes into neurotoxic reactive astrocytes, classified 
as A1, by inflammatory cytokines, and their link to brain damage and 
neurodegenerative diseases has been widely documented. However, the roles of two 
biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyloid β-peptide (Aβ) and tau, and that 
of calcium pumps which are involved in the fine-tuning of calcium homeostasis, 
are poorly understood in astrocytes. In this study, we showed that treating 
astrocytoma U-251 cells with a cocktail of cytokines significantly increased 
plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase (PMCA) activity and expression levels of the four 
PMCA isoforms. Moreover, treatment of cells with Aβ1-42 or tau induced a similar 
upregulation of PMCA activity and isoform expression levels as cytokines. These 
effects support the close association of Aβ and tau with inflammation. This 
study may help better understand the role of PMCA in promoting calcium extrusion 
from astrocytes transformed by AD markers.

© 2025 The Author(s). FEBS Open Bio published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf 
of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1002/2211-5463.70046
PMCID: PMC12319713
PMID: 40325855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


95. BMC Med Educ. 2025 May 5;25(1):654. doi: 10.1186/s12909-025-07258-9.

Assessing Alzheimer's disease knowledge among Egyptian medical students in the 
context of recent educational reforms.

Samir AA(1), Hageen AW(2), Elbarbary K(3), Elamir AH(3), Abdel-Fattah MA(4), 
Alameldin MM(5), Al-Qahtani FS(6); Alzheimer’s group of Egypt; Ghazy RM(6)(7).

Collaborators: Elsharkawy S, Mohamed MF, Flifel EA, Ehab A, Mousalawi H, 
Alibashir S, Attef A, Abdellatif MS, Mousalawi I, Hemida MF, Selim AA, Zedan RA, 
Omar EM, Shalaby MS, Mamdouh M, Mahmoud RE, Ateia AA, Nabawy MT, Suliman SH.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Al-Azhar University, Nasr City, 11884, Cairo, Egypt. 
ahmedamirsamir58@gmail.com.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Tanta University, Tanta, Gharbia, Egypt.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura University, Dakahlia, Egypt.
(4)Department of Applied Statistics and Econometrics, Faculty of Graduate 
Studies for Statistical Research, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut, Egypt.
(6)Family and Community Medicine Department, College of Medicine, King Khalid 
University, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Tropical Health Department, High Institute of Public Health, Alexandria 
University, Alexandria, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: Medical students are the future doctors and play an essential role 
in the management of health issues. Their understanding of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) is not only required but also necessary to provide the best possible care 
to patients. The present study aimed to assess medical students' knowledge about 
AD within the context of the recent reform of the Egyptian medical educational 
system, which switched to competency-based instead of outcome-based education 
since 2017.
METHODS: A descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted among medical 
students in public and private Egyptian medical schools. Between August and 
November 2024, an anonymous self-administered questionnaire was uploaded to 
Google Forms and distributed online through commonly used social media 
platforms. The Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge Scale (ADKS), a validated and 
reliable tool, was used for the measurement of AD-related knowledge. Univariate 
and multivariable logistic regression models were used to determine the factors 
associated with having good or poor knowledge about AD among participants.
RESULTS: In total, 1100 medical students were included through convenience and 
snowball sampling methods; their mean age was 20.9 ± 1.9 years, 55.5% were 
males, 59.6% were in their clinical years, and 15.6% had a positive family 
history of AD. The students' mean knowledge score was 19.10 ± 2.96 out of 30, 
representing 63.7% of answers correct, with a range of scores between 9 and 29. 
About 70.8% of the sample had good knowledge. The highest percentage of correct 
answers was for the treatment and management domain (76.5%), while the lowest 
percentage was for the caregiving domain (52.2%). Predictors of good knowledge 
were females [adjusted odds ratio (aOR) = 1.33 (95% confidence interval (CI): 
1.01-1.76, p = 0.043], attending a public university [aOR = 1.62 (95% CI: 
1.09-2.41), p = 0.015), clinical year students [aOR = 1.53 (95% CI: 1.07-2.16), 
p = 0.018], living in an urban area [(aOR = 1.67 (95% CI: 1.23-2.25), 
p < 0.001], and having higher family monthly income [aOR = 1.75 (95% 
CI: 1.13-2.72), p = 0.012].
CONCLUSIONS: The study highlights gaps in Egyptian medical students' knowledge 
of AD. Knowledge gaps were found in domains of caregiving and risk factors, 
urging educators and policymakers to enhance curricula, particularly preclinical 
curricula, with a specific focus on some socio-economic determinants.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12909-025-07258-9
PMCID: PMC12054285
PMID: 40325427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This research was conducted according to the full provision of the 
1964 Declaration of Helsinki and participation in this study was voluntary. 
Before participation all students gave their informed consent electronically. 
Moreover, we didn’t gather any personal identified data, and this data was 
accessible to our study team only. We obtained the ethical approval from the 
Institutional Review Board (IRB) of the Faculty of Medicine, Al A-zhar 
University, Cario, Egypt (Approval number: 0000003/6/24). Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


96. Neurol Ther. 2025 Aug;14(4):1287-1298. doi: 10.1007/s40120-025-00746-6. Epub 
2025 May 6.

Feasibility of Identifying Acute Nontraumatic Intracerebral Hemorrhage Events 
Using Diagnostic Coding Among Veterans with Mild Cognitive Impairment or 
Alzheimer's Dementia.

Berlowitz D(1), Wang Y(2)(3), Reisman J(4)(5), Miller D(1), Morin PJ(6), Arasa 
VCA(7)(8), Mittler B(9), Zhang R(10), Tahami Monfared AA(10)(11), Irizarry 
M(10), Zhang Q(10), Xia W(12)(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Zuckerberg College of Health Sciences, 
University of Massachusetts Lowell, Lowell, MA, 01854, USA.
(2)Research Service, VA Bedford Healthcare System, Bedford, MA, USA.
(3)Wentworth Institute of Technology, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Center for Healthcare Optimization and Implementation, VA Bedford Healthcare 
System, Bedford, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Massachusetts Lowell, 
Lowell, MA, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Boston University, Chobanian and Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Neuroradiology Service, VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Department of Radiology, Boston University, Chobanian and Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, VA South Texas Healthcare 
System, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(10)Alzheimer's Disease and Brain Health, Eisai Inc, Nutley, NJ, USA.
(11)McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(12)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Massachusetts Lowell, 
Lowell, MA, USA. wxia@bu.edu.
(13)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Bedford VA Healthcare 
System, 200 Springs Road, Bedford, MA, 01730, USA. wxia@bu.edu.
(14)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology and Biophysics, Boston University, 
Chobanian and Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA. wxia@bu.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Based on manual review of clinical notes of using the 
International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision coding, we evaluated 
the feasibility and validity for monitoring, recording, and reporting 
intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) events in patients with all-cause mild cognitive 
impairment or Alzheimer's dementia including, but not limited to, patients 
eligible for anti-amyloid therapy.
METHODS: Principal and first-position hospital discharge codes for ICH events 
for 200 patients were identified from the Veterans Affairs Health System 
structured administrative database. Clinician manual review of discharge summary 
notes assessed and confirmed the presence of coded events. Available 
documentation of bleed locations was further reviewed, and the extent of event 
adjudication for potential etiology was assessed. Additionally, 25 acute ICH 
cases were randomly identified by reviewing discharge notes to confirm 
corresponding diagnostic code-based reporting.
RESULTS: Of the 200 identified patients, 161 with acute ICH events were 
confirmed, resulting in a positive predictive value (PPV) of 80.5% for ICH event 
presence identified by diagnostic coding. Bleed locations were described for 151 
of 161 patients with confirmed events. Of 110 cases whose diagnostic codes 
indicated an event location, 79 had location descriptions in discharge summaries 
that were consistent with the coding (PPV = 71.8%). Possible etiology was 
described in 56/161 patients' discharge summaries. Among the 25 acute ICH cases 
identified from discharge notes, 8 had corresponding ICH diagnostic codes.
CONCLUSION: This study supports the feasibility and validity of the ICD-10 
coding system for monitoring, recording, and reporting ICH event presence. When 
location is specified in the codes, the ICD-10 coding has an acceptable PPV. 
Overall, the current diagnostic coding system provides a reasonable framework 
for initial reporting and may allow for only limited inference of etiology such 
as differentiating nontraumatic versus traumatic events. Coding accuracy for ICH 
can be expected to further improve with the availability of guidelines, 
training, and standardization across clinical practices.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40120-025-00746-6
PMCID: PMC12255587
PMID: 40325265

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: Amir Abbas 
Tahami Monfared, Michael Irizarry, Raymond Zhang, and Quanwu Zhang are employees 
of Eisai Inc. The other authors, Dan Berlowitz, Ying Wang, Joel Reisman, Donald 
Miller, Peter J Morin, Vanesa Carlota Andreu Arasa, Brant Mittler, and Weiming 
Xia declare no conflict of interest. The funders had no decisional role in the 
study design, data collection and analysis, or decision to present or publish 
the manuscript. Ethical Approval: The study was approved by the institutional 
review board of Bedford VA Hospital. The data was not identifiable. This study 
was performed in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration of 1964 and its later 
amendments.


97. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Jun;33(6):3479-3498. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01755-5.  Epub 2025 May 5.

Empagliflozin and memantine combination ameliorates cognitive impairment in 
scopolamine + heavy metal mixture-induced Alzheimer's disease in rats: role of 
AMPK/mTOR, BDNF, BACE-1, neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress.

Abdel-Lah ES(1)(2), Sherkawy HS(3), Mohamed WH(4), Fawy MA(5), Hasan AA(6), 
Muhammed AA(7), Taha AF(8), Tony AA(9), Hamad N(10), Gamea MG(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Assiut 
University, Assiut, 71526, Egypt. ebtsam_saber@aun.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Veterinary Medicine, Badr University, 
Assiut, 11829, Egypt. ebtsam_saber@aun.edu.eg.
(3)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Aswan University, 
Aswan, Egypt.
(4)Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Aswan University, Aswan, Egypt.
(5)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, South Valley University, Qena, 
83523, Egypt.
(6)Department of Human Anatomy and Embryology, Faculty of Medicine, Aswan 
University, Aswan, 81528, Egypt.
(7)Department of Medical Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Aswan University, 
Aswan, 81528, Egypt.
(8)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Assiut 
University, Assiut, 71526, Egypt.
(9)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Aswan University, Aswan, 
Egypt.
(10)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Assiut University, 
Assiut, 71515, Egypt.
(11)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut, 
71526, Egypt.
(12)Basic Medical Science Department, Badr University, Assiut, Egypt.

One of the major consequences of diabetes mellitus that has gained attention due 
to its rising incidence is cognitive impairment. Recent research suggested that 
sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors can mitigate memory 
impairment linked to Alzheimer's disease and are now being explored for their 
cognitive benefits. However, their mechanisms were not thoroughly studied. This 
research investigates the hypothesis of the neuroprotective effect of 
empagliflozin administration against scopolamine-heavy metal mixture 
(SCO + HMM)-treated Alzheimer's rat models in comparison with memantine as a 
reference drug and the impact of their combination. Yet, the neuroprotective 
effects of memantine and empagliflozin combination against cognitive impairment 
have not been previously explored. This study employed adult male albino rats 
categorized into five groups. The impact of empagliflozin, memantine, and their 
concomitant administration on cognitive performance was assessed in a 
scopolamine and heavy metal mixture-treated Alzheimer's disease model in rats. 
The assessment of rats' cognitive behavior, memory, and spatial learning was 
conducted, followed by an evaluation of hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor (BDNF), beta-secretase (BACE-1), oxidative stress (OS), and inflammatory 
marker activity. And, a western blot analysis was conducted to detect 
phosphorylated 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (p-AMPK), phosphorylated 
mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR), and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Hippocampal 
and cerebellar histopathology were thoroughly examined, in addition to the 
expressions of amyloid β (Aβ). The current data demonstrate the involvement of 
the pAMPK/mTOR/HO-1 signaling pathway in empagliflozin neuroprotection against 
SCO + HMM-induced AD. In addition, it reduces AD hallmarks (Aβ and BACE1), 
neuro-inflammation, and oxidative stress sequelae, and enhances neurogenesis and 
synaptic density via BDNF. This study proposes that EMPA, especially when 
co-administered with other conventional anti-Alzheimer therapy, may be 
formulated into an innovative therapeutic strategy for the enhancement of 
cognitive impairments associated with neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01755-5
PMCID: PMC12213885
PMID: 40325262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval and consent to participate: 
This study was approved by the Assiut University, Faculty of Pharmacy’s ethical 
committee with approval no. 05-2024-029. It was conducted following the ethical 
treatment criteria for laboratory animals, as specified in the Guide for the 
Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.


98. Nat Commun. 2025 May 6;16(1):4180. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-59295-z.

Oral PRI-002 treatment in patients with MCI or mild AD: a randomized, 
double-blind phase 1b trial.

Kutzsche J(1), Cosma NC(2)(3), Kauselmann G(1), Fenski F(2), Bieniek C(2), 
Bujnicki T(1), Pils M(4), Bannach O(4), Willbold D(5)(6), Peters O(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological Information Processing 7, Structural Biochemistry, 
Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH, Jülich, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, Charité-Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, corporate member of Freie Universität Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Berlin Institute of Health at Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, BIH 
Biomedical Innovation Academy, BIH Charité Clinician Scientist Program, Berlin, 
Germany.
(4)attyloid GmbH, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(5)Institute of Biological Information Processing 7, Structural Biochemistry, 
Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH, Jülich, Germany. d.willbold@fz-juelich.de.
(6)Institut für Physikalische Biologie, Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, 
Düsseldorf, Germany. d.willbold@fz-juelich.de.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, Charité-Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, corporate member of Freie Universität Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany. oliver.peters@charite.de.

Self-replicating amyloid beta (Aβ) oligomers are considered as one of the major 
drivers for disrupted synaptic function and plasticity, leading to impaired 
neuronal viability and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we 
investigated the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of the 
anti-oligomeric peptide PRI-002, which was developed to disassemble toxic Aβ 
oligomers into non-toxic monomers. In a randomized, double-blind, single-center 
phase 1b trial, 20 patients aged between 50 and 80 years, with mild 
neurocognitive impairment (MCI) or mild dementia due to AD were recruited. 
Eligible patients were randomly assigned (1:1) to receive 300 mg PRI-002 once 
daily (q.d.) or placebo for 28 days. During treatment, study visits were 
performed on baseline (Day 1), Day 14, Day 28 and an additional follow-up visit 
on Day 56. Safety assessments were carried out at all visits to determine the 
primary endpoints. On Day 7 and Day 21 additional phone visits were carried out 
to assess concomitant meds and AEs. Primary endpoints were nature, frequency, 
severity, and timing of adverse and serious adverse events (AE/SAEs) and 
treatment discontinuation. Furthermore, standard laboratory values, 
electrocardiogram (ECG), electroencephalogram (EEG), magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI), and vital signs were assessed. Secondary endpoints included the 
evaluation of pharmacokinetic characteristics of PRI-002 in plasma and the 
determination of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of PRI-002. The trial 
is registered in EudraCT 2020-003416-27 and clinicaltrials.gov NCT04711486 . In 
the study, 19 out of 20 patients were randomly assigned to PRI-002 (n = 9) or 
placebo (n = 10) and completed the study. One patient withdrew informed consent 
before randomization. All primary endpoints were met. Overall, the study drug 
was well tolerated. In total n = 16 AEs were reported in the verum group, while 
n = 27 AEs were noted in the placebo group. No SAEs were reported. No 
significant changes in clinical chemistry, hematology or hematoserology were 
detected. ECG, EEG and MRI revealed no changes and in detail no ARIA were 
observed. Pharmacokinetic parameters were unrelated to sex, age, and weight. 
Furthermore, no significant changes were detected in p-tau, t-tau, Aβ 1-40, Aβ 
1-42 and Aβ oligomers in CSF. Patients receiving PRI-002 performed significantly 
better than those receiving placebo in the CERAD word list at Day 56 (P ≤ 0.05). 
In conclusion, 28 days of treatment with 300 mg q.d. PRI-002 was well tolerated 
in patients with MCI or mild dementia due to AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-59295-z
PMCID: PMC12053642
PMID: 40324978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: D.W. is cofounder and 
co-owner of Priavoid GmbH. D.W. is coinventor of PRI-002. O.P. has consulting 
contracts with Prinnovation GmbH and Priavoid GmbH. This did not have any 
influence on the interpretation of data. The remaining authors declare no 
competing interests.


99. Adv Protein Chem Struct Biol. 2025;145:287-304. doi: 
10.1016/bs.apcsb.2024.11.010. Epub 2024 Dec 5.

Small molecule-mediated therapeutic approaches to target Tau and Alzheimer's 
disease.

Chinnathambi S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurochemistry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro 
Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS), Institute of National Importance, Hosur Road, 
Bangalore, Karnataka, India. Electronic address: subashneuro@nimhans.ac.in.

Neurodegeneration is marked by the altered proteostasis and protein degradation 
mechanism. This is caused due to the accumulation of aberrant proteins. 
Alzheimer's disease is one of the leading causes of neurodegeneration 
characterized by the aggregation of Tau and Amyloid-β proteins intracellularly 
and extracellularly, respectively. The intracellular aggregation of Tau triggers 
accumulation of oxidative stress, loss of ER and mitochondrial function, leading 
to the aggravation of aggregates formation. Thus, increasing the load of 
aberrant proteins on chaperones and degradative mechanism, such as autophagy and 
ubiquitin-proteasome system. Although several small molecules are known to 
target and prevent Tau aggregation, the detrimental effects in the cell due to 
aggregates accumulation shall not be overlooked. In such instance, small 
molecules that effectively target Tau aggregates and the cellular aberrations 
would be of great importance. Here we have discussed the efficacy of natural 
molecule, Limonoid, isolated from Azadirachta indica that prevents Tau 
aggregation and also activates the heat shock protein system. The activated heat 
shock protein system elevates the levels of Hsp70 that is known to interact with 
aberrantly folded Tau. Further, the role of Hsp70 in directing Tau clearance by 
macroautophagy or chaperone-mediated autophagy elucidates the effect of 
limonoids in overcoming AD pathology due to Tau aggregation.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.apcsb.2024.11.010
PMID: 40324850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Adv Protein Chem Struct Biol. 2025;145:219-254. doi: 
10.1016/bs.apcsb.2024.11.003. Epub 2025 Mar 31.

Exploring therapeutic strategies based on chaperon-mediated disaggregation.

Silva LR(1), Souza SO(2), Leite ACR(3), Silva-Júnior EFD(4).

Author information:
(1)Research Group on Biological and Molecular Chemistry, Institute of Chemistry 
and Biotechnology, Federal University of Alagoas, Maceió, Alagoas, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Bioenergetics, Institute of Chemistry and Biotechnology, 
Federal University of Alagoas, Maceió, Alagoas, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Bioenergetics, Institute of Chemistry and Biotechnology, 
Federal University of Alagoas, Maceió, Alagoas, Brazil. Electronic address: 
ana.leite@iqb.ufal.br.
(4)Research Group on Biological and Molecular Chemistry, Institute of Chemistry 
and Biotechnology, Federal University of Alagoas, Maceió, Alagoas, Brazil. 
Electronic address: edeildo.junior@iqb.ufal.br.

In the quest to develop effective therapeutic strategies for diseases associated 
with protein misfolding and aggregation, molecular chaperones have emerged as 
pivotal players. This chapter explores the role of chaperones, such as Hsp40, 
Hsp70, and Hsp90, in mediating the disaggregation of misfolded proteins and 
facilitating proper folding under stress conditions. Despite their lack of 
sequence specificity, these proteins adeptly recognize exposed hydrophobic 
regions in partially folded states, thereby preventing aggregation and promoting 
functional conformations. The intricate network of chaperone interactions is 
crucial for maintaining cellular homeostasis and mitigating the pathological 
consequences of protein misfolding, particularly in conditions like Alzheimer's 
disease and various cancers. Innovative therapeutic approaches, including the 
use of pharmacological and chemical chaperones, aim to restore functionality to 
mutated or misfolded proteins, exemplified by interventions targeting the ΔF508 
mutation in CFTR. While promising, the modulation of chaperone activity must be 
carefully calibrated to avoid disrupting cellular functions. This chapter 
highlights the potential of chaperone-mediated disaggregation as a therapeutic 
strategy, addressing both the current advancements and the challenges that lie 
ahead in harnessing these proteins for clinical benefit.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.apcsb.2024.11.003
PMID: 40324847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]