1. Brain Inform. 2025 Mar 21;12(1):8. doi: 10.1186/s40708-025-00252-3.

Machine-learning models for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis using neuroimaging 
data: survey, reproducibility, and generalizability evaluation.

Aghdam MA(1), Bozdag S(2), Saeed F(3); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Knight Foundation School of Computing and Information Science (KFSCIS), 
Florida International University (FIU), Miami, FL, USA.
(2)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of North Texas 
(UNT), Denton, TX, USA.
(3)Knight Foundation School of Computing and Information Science (KFSCIS), 
Florida International University (FIU), Miami, FL, USA. fsaeed@fiu.edu.

Clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is usually made after symptoms 
such as short-term memory loss are exhibited, which minimizes the intervention 
and treatment options. The existing screening techniques cannot distinguish 
between stable MCI (sMCI) cases (i.e., patients who do not convert to AD for at 
least three years) and progressive MCI (pMCI) cases (i.e., patients who convert 
to AD in three years or sooner). Delayed diagnosis of AD also disproportionately 
affects underrepresented and socioeconomically disadvantaged populations. The 
significant positive impact of an early diagnosis solution for AD across diverse 
ethno-racial and demographic groups is well-known and recognized. While 
advancements in high-throughput technologies have enabled the generation of vast 
amounts of multimodal clinical, and neuroimaging datasets related to AD, most 
methods utilizing these data sets for diagnostic purposes have not found their 
way in clinical settings. To better understand the landscape, we surveyed the 
major preprocessing, data management, traditional machine-learning (ML), and 
deep learning (DL) techniques used for diagnosing AD using neuroimaging data 
such as structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI), functional magnetic 
resonance imaging (fMRI), and positron emission tomography (PET). Once we had a 
good understanding of the methods available, we conducted a study to assess the 
reproducibility and generalizability of open-source ML models. Our evaluation 
shows that existing models show reduced generalizability when different cohorts 
of the data modality are used while controlling other computational factors. The 
paper concludes with a discussion of major challenges that plague ML models for 
AD diagnosis and biomarker discovery.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40708-025-00252-3
PMCID: PMC11928716
PMID: 40117001

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


2. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):120-133. doi: 10.1177/13872877251326166.
Epub  2025 Mar 21.

Exploring interdisciplinary perspectives on the implementation of personalized 
medicine and patient-orchestrated care in Alzheimer's disease: A qualitative 
study within the ABOARD research project.

de Rijke TJ(1)(2)(3)(4), Vasseur D(5), van der Flier WM(2)(3)(6), Minkman 
MM(5)(7), Rhodius-Meester HF(2)(3)(8)(9), Verwey NA(3)(10), Smets EM(1)(4), 
Visser LN(1)(2)(3)(4)(11).

Author information:
(1)Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Medical Psychology, Meibergdreef 9, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Alzheimercentrum Amsterdam, Neurologie, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Amsterdam Public Health, Personalized Medicine & Quality of Care, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(5)Vilans, the national Centre of expertise for care and support, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Epidemiology & Data Science, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam UMC, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(7)Tilburg University, TIAS School for business and society, Tilburg, the 
Netherlands.
(8)Department of Internal medicine, Geriatric Medicine section, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(9)Department of Geriatric Medicine, The Memory Clinic, Oslo University 
Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(10)Department of Neurology, Memory Clinic, Medical Center Leeuwarden, 
Leeuwarden, The Netherlands.
(11)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department 
of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

BackgroundThe concepts of 'personalized medicine' and 'patient-orchestrated 
care' in Alzheimer's disease (AD) lack standard conceptualization, which 
presents challenges for collaborative and interdisciplinary care.ObjectiveWe 
explored the interpretations and perspectives of professionals involved in 
interdisciplinary work on a large-scale project, "ABOARD", with the aim to 
implement personalized medicine and patient-orchestrated care in 
AD.MethodsSemi-structured interviews were conducted with 30 professionals and 
audio-recorded. Two researchers independently coded the data inductively, 
followed by a thematic analysis.ResultsAccording to professionals across 
different disciplinary backgrounds (mean age 45.7 years; 53.3% female), 
personalized medicine pertains to the relevant options that an individual has, 
informed by biomedical and psychosocial factors, whereas patient-orchestrated 
care captures factors relevant to the decision-making process. Professionals 
differed in their views on patient-orchestrated care regarding its desirability 
and feasibility. The concepts were viewed as similar by professionals, as both 
involve personal preferences while ultimately assigning responsibility to the 
clinician. However, implementation challenges persist, and no thematic 
differences were found between clinicians and other AD-related 
professionals.ConclusionsAD professionals have shared interpretations and 
perspectives on implementation of personalized medicine but differed in their 
views on patient-orchestrated care. Personal preferences are seen as part of 
personalized medicine, but not yet reflected in definitions in the AD field and 
beyond. Critical discussions on the challenges and existing doubts are necessary 
for both personalized medicine and patient-orchestrated care. Multi-level 
implementation changes are needed for both concepts, which warrants stakeholder 
involvement as well as support and resources from the entire AD field.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251326166
PMCID: PMC12231872
PMID: 40116704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(2):598-608. doi: 10.1177/13872877251330147.
Epub  2025 Mar 21.

Feasibility of a developed cognitive training system based on virtual reality 
with smart mirror for expert in community older cognitive disabled persons 
setting.

Kang BR(1), Bae YH(2), Park SH(3), Kang HY(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, Woosong University, Deajeon, South Korea.
(2)Department of Healthcare and Public Health Research, National Rehabilitation 
Center, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Research Institute, Hospi Co., Ltd, Hanam, South Korea.
(4)Department of Physical Therapy, The Graduete School, Sunmoon University, 
Asan, South Korea.

BackgroundNumerous stroke survivors reintegrating into the community experience 
cognitive challenges that restrict their engagement, subsequently contributing 
to additional cognitive decline and adversely affecting their quality of 
life.ObjectiveThis study seeks to feasibility a cognitive training system based 
on virtual reality with a smart mirror designed for cognitive disabled persons 
with chronic stroke in the community setting.MethodsTen cognitive disabled 
persons with chronic stroke aged 60 years older, each with independent mobility 
in the community, were involved in this study. The validation process included a 
30-min cognitive training session administered twice a week for eight weeks. The 
feasibility of cognitive function assessments employed the MoCA-K and CoSAS. 
Additionally, a usability test was performed at the end of the experiment using 
SUS and the Adapted IMI. The Wilcoxon signed rank test was then employed to 
compare pre- and post-cognitive function results.ResultsThe feasibility of the 
implemented cognitive training system based on virtual reality with smart mirror 
revealed significant differences in the total score, delayed recall, and 
orientation items of the MoCA-K (p < 0.05). Additionally, a notable improvement 
was observed in the accuracy and response time of task performance in the CoSAS 
(p < 0.05). Usability test results indicated an SUS mean score of 73.5 (SD 
17.25) and an Adapted IMI score of 5.63 (SD 1.55), surpassing suggested 
thresholds for usability tests.ConclusionsProviding a cognitive training system 
tailored for the community, this approach aims to the prevention and recovery of 
cognitive issues in the older cognitive disabled persons with chronic stroke.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251330147
PMID: 40116699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


4. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):65-76. doi: 10.1177/13872877251325759. Epub 
2025 Mar 21.

TMA-93 (binding by images): Cutoffs optimization based on Alzheimer's disease 
biomarkers.

Arriola-Infante JE(1)(2)(3), García-Roldán E(4), García-Solís D(5), 
Marín-Cabañas AM(4), Luque-Tirado A(4), Almodóvar-Sierra Á(4), Sánchez-Arjona 
MB(4), Maillet D(6), Franco-Macías E(4).

Author information:
(1)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i 
Sant Pau, Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau (IIB Sant Pau), Barcelona, 
Spain.
(2)Center of Biomedical Investigation Network for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Neurology, Torrecárdenas University Hospital, Almería, Spain.
(4)Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Virgen del Rocío University Hospital, 
Sevilla, Spain.
(5)Nuclear Medicine Unit, Virgen del Rocío University Hospital, Sevilla, Spain.
(6)Service de Neurologie à orientation oncologique, Hôpital Saint-Louis (AP-HP), 
Paris, France.

BackgroundWith the arrival of new disease-modifying treatments for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), feasible cognitive tests, also for illiterate patients, are needed 
to screen those requiring deeper evaluation among individuals presenting with 
memory complaints. The TMA-93, a brief binding memory test, has proven useful 
for diagnosing early AD, and is supported by normative data that accounts for 
age and cognitive reserve.ObjectiveTo compare the sensitivity of different 
TMA-93 cutoffs in detecting AD pathology.MethodsA retrospective analysis was 
performed on a biobank sample of patients with confirmed AD pathology via 
amyloid PET or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers. The sensitivity of six 
TMA-93 cutoffs was evaluated: the 10th, 15th, and 20th percentiles based on 
traditional norming (TN) and regression-based norming (RBN). False negatives 
(FN) characteristics were also analyzed.ResultsA total of 270 AD-positive 
patients (96 by amyloid-PET, 174 by CSF biomarkers) were included, comprising 
224 with mild cognitive impairment and 46 with mild dementia. The 15th 
percentile using RBN demonstrated substantial sensitivity (80.4%), higher than 
that of the 10th percentile, and also provided a more uniform distribution 
across normative groups compared to the TN approach. Higher global cognition 
(Mini-Mental State Examination score) and, in patients over 70, lower cognitive 
reserve (Cognitive Reserve Questionnaire), were linked to a greater likelihood 
of FN results.ConclusionsThe 15th percentile cutoff based on RBN, accounting for 
age and cognitive reserve, improves sensitivity for detecting AD pathology, 
making it a valuable screening tool for memory complaints. Future normative data 
from biomarker-negative subjects may enhance the sensitivity of cognitive tests.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251325759
PMCID: PMC12231840
PMID: 40116687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Emilio 
Franco-Macías is an Editorial Board Member of this journal but was not involved 
in the peer-review process of this article nor had access to any information 
regarding its peer-review.The remaining authors declared no potential conflicts 
of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


5. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(2):363-367. doi: 10.1177/13872877251328723.
Epub  2025 Mar 21.

Virtual reality-based interventions for individuals with dementia: A potential 
further treatment and new perspectives.

Monteiro-Junior RS(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program in Health Sciences, State University of Montes Claros, 
Montes Claros, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(2)Physical Education and Sport Department, State University of Montes Claros, 
Montes Claros, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(3)Research and Innovation Institute (IPS), Hospital Aroldo Tourinho, Montes 
Claros, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

This commentary highlights issues regarding virtual reality (VR)-based 
interventions for individuals with Alzheimer's disease, emphasizing their 
potential to improve cognitive function and delay decline. The aim of this 
manuscript is to present current findings and critically synthesize the 
practical applications of VR interventions. A recent meta-analysis demonstrates 
promising results, with VR interventions enhancing memory, executive functions, 
and overall cognition. Despite the limited number of studies and small sample 
sizes, findings suggest that engaging VR environments can motivate patients, 
fostering adherence to treatment. This commentary underscores the need for 
further research to validate these results and establish standardized 
methodologies for the effective use of VR in dementia care. Several 
methodological aspects and new perspectives are highlighted herein.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251328723
PMID: 40116675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe author 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


6. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(4):1290-1300. doi: 10.1177/13872877251324080. 
Epub 2025 Mar 21.

Alzheimer-typical temporo-parietal atrophy and hypoperfusion are associated with 
a more significant cholinergic impairment in amnestic neurodegenerative 
syndromes.

Richter N(1)(2), Breidenbach L(2), Schmieschek MH(2), Heiss WD(3), Fink 
GR(1)(2), Onur OA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-3), 
Research Center Jülich, Germany.
(2)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Cologne and Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Cologne, Germany.
(3)Max-Planck-Institute for Neurological Research, Cologne, Germany.

BackgroundTo date, cholinomimetics remain central in the pharmacotherapy of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. However, postmortem investigations indicate 
that the AD-typical progressive amnestic syndrome may also result from 
predominantly limbic non-AD neuropathology such as TDP-43 proteinopathy and 
argyrophilic grain disease. Experimental evidence links a beneficial response to 
cholinomimetics in early AD to reduced markers of cholinergic neurotransmission. 
However, the cholinergic impairment varies among patients with a clinical AD 
presentation, likely due to non-AD (co)-pathologies.ObjectiveThis study examines 
whether AD-typical atrophy and hypoperfusion can provide information about the 
cholinergic system in clinically diagnosed AD.MethodsThirty-two patients with 
amnestic mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia due to AD underwent positron 
emission tomography (PET) with the tracer N-methyl-4-piperidyl-acetate (MP4A) to 
estimate acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, neurological examinations, 
cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and neuropsychological assessment. The 
'cholinergic deficit' was computed as the deviation of AChE activity from 
cognitively normal controls across the cerebral cortex and correlated gray 
matter (GM) and perfusion of temporo-parietal cortices typically affected by AD 
and basal forebrain (BF) GM.ResultsTemporo-parietal perfusion and GM, as well as 
the inferior temporal to medial temporal ratio of perfusion correlated 
negatively with the 'cholinergic deficit'. A smaller Ch4p area of the BF was 
associated with a more significant 'cholinergic deficit', albeit to a lesser 
degree than cortical measures.ConclusionsIn clinically diagnosed AD, 
temporo-parietal GM and perfusion are more closely associated with the 
'cholinergic deficit' than BF volumes, making them possible markers for 
cholinergic treatment response in amnestic neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251324080
PMCID: PMC12231882
PMID: 40116674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsNils Richter 
is an Associate Editor of this journal but was not involved in the peer-review 
process of this article nor had access to any information regarding its 
peer-review.The authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect 
to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


7. Protein Sci. 2025 Apr;34(4):e70100. doi: 10.1002/pro.70100.

Data-driven evaluation of suitable immunogens for improved antibody selection.

Waury K(1)(2), Kvartsberg H(3)(4), Zetterberg H(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8), Blennow 
K(3)(4)(9)(10), Teunissen CE(11), Abeln S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(2)AI Technology For Life, Department of Information and Computing Science, and 
Department of Biology, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(7)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(8)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(9)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(10)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, People's Republic of China.
(11)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Clinical Chemistry, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Antibodies are indispensable in laboratory and clinical applications due to 
their high specificity and affinity for protein antigens. However, selecting the 
right protein fragments as immunogens for antibody production remains 
challenging. Leveraging the Human Protein Atlas, this study systematically 
evaluates immunogen properties aiming to identify key factors that influence 
their suitability. Antibodies were classified as successful or unsuccessful 
based on standardized validation experiments, and the structural and functional 
properties of their immunogens were analyzed. Results indicated that longer 
immunogens often resulted in more successful but less specific antibodies. 
Shorter immunogens (50 residues or fewer) with disordered or unfolded regions at 
the N- or C-terminus and long coil stretches were more likely to generate 
successful antibodies. Conversely, immunogens with high beta sheet content, 
transmembrane regions, or disulfide bridges were associated with poorer antibody 
performance. Post-translational modification sites within immunogens appeared to 
mark beneficial regions for antibody generation. To support antibody selection, 
a novel R package, immunogenViewer, was developed, enabling researchers to 
easily apply these insights when immunogen sequences are disclosed. By providing 
a deeper understanding of immunogen suitability, this study promotes the 
development of more effective antibodies, ultimately addressing issues of 
reproducibility and reliability in antibody-based research. The findings are 
highly relevant to the research community, as end users often lack control over 
the immunogen selection process in antibody production. The R package is freely 
available as part of Bioconductor: 
https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/immunogenViewer.html.

© 2025 The Author(s). Protein Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of The Protein Society.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.70100
PMCID: PMC11926642
PMID: 40116298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: K. B. has served as a consultant and on advisory 
boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, 
Moleac Pte. Ltd., Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, 
Sanofi, and Siemens Healthineers; has served on data monitoring committees for 
Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational 
materials, and participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, 
Celdara Medical, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co‐founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program. H. Z. has served on scientific advisory boards and/or as a 
consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures sponsored by 
Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, 
Roche, and WebMD; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg 
AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program. C. E. T. 
performed contract research for Acumen, ADx Neurosciences, AC‐Immune, Alamar, 
Aribio, Axon Neurosciences, Beckman–Coulter, BioConnect, Bioorchestra, 
Brainstorm Therapeutics, Celgene, Cognition Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Eisai, Eli 
Lilly, Fujirebio, Grifols, Instant Nano Biosensors, Merck, Novo Nordisk, Olink, 
PeopleBio, Quanterix, Roche, Toyama, and Vivoryon. She is editor in chief of 
Alzheimer Research and Therapy and serves on editorial boards of Medidact 
Neurologie/Springer and Neurology: Neuroimmunology & Neuroinflammation. She had 
speaker contracts for Eli Lilly, Grifols, Novo Nordisk, Olink, and Roche. All 
declarations of interest are outside the work presented in this article.


8. Mol Med Rep. 2025 May;31(5):131. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2025.13496. Epub 2025 Mar
21.

Water extract of Humulus japonicus improves age‑related cognitive decline by 
inhibiting acetylcholinesterase activity and the acetylcholine signaling 
pathway.

Kim JE(#)(1), Min KS(#)(1), Go J(1), Park HY(1), Choi YK(1), Lee IB(1), Shin 
J(2), Cho HJ(3), Kim HS(4), Hwang DY(5), Oh WK(2), Kim KS(1), Lee CH(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Animal Resource Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and 
Biotechnology, Daejeon 34141, Republic of Korea.
(2)Korea Bioactive Natural Material Bank, Research Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Republic 
of Korea.
(3)NHB Co., Ltd., Seoul 04735, Republic of Korea.
(4)PENS Co., Ltd., Seoul 07206, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Biomaterials Science, College of Natural Resources and Life 
Science/Life and Industry Convergence Research Institute, Pusan National 
University, Miryang, South Gyeongsang 50463, Republic of Korea.
(#)Contributed equally

The aging process is associated with a decline in certain cognitive abilities, 
including learning and memory. This age‑related cognitive decline is associated 
with a reduction in neurogenesis and alterations in the cholinergic system. 
Humulus japonicus (HJ), an ornamental plant in the family Cannabaceae, has been 
reported to exert beneficial effects against neurodegenerative pathophysiologies 
in mouse models of disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. 
Despite the increasingly aging populations of numerous societies, no study has 
yet investigated the effects of HJ on cognitive decline associated with normal 
aging. The present study therefore aimed to examine the protective potential of 
HJ water (HJW) extract against age‑related cognitive decline and 
scopolamine‑induced cognitive impairment. The analyses revealed that the oral 
administration of HJW markedly improved novel objective recognition and spatial 
learning in the novel object recognition and Morris water maze tests, 
respectively, in aged mice. The administration of 600 mg/kg HJW further 
increased neurogenesis and CA1 thickness in the hippocampi of aged mice. In 
scopolamine‑induced cognitive impairment, administration of 400 or 600 mg/kg HJW 
markedly increased novel object recognition performance in scopolamine‑treated 
mice. The inhibitory effect of HJW on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and the 
activation effects of HJW on the calcium/calmodulin‑dependent kinase 
(CaMK)IIα‑cAMP response element‑binding protein (CREB) and AKT‑glycogen synthase 
kinase‑3 β (GSK3β) pathways were further demonstrated. Overall, these results 
indicate that HJW administration improves cognitive function through the 
regulation of AChE activity and CaMKIIα‑CREB and AKT‑GSK3β pathways.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2025.13496
PMCID: PMC11938412
PMID: 40116124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Hyun-Ju Cho and Hong-Sik Kim are founders of NHB 
Co. and PENS Co. HJW was supplied by the NHB Co. and PENS Co. The other authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


9. JAR Life. 2025 Mar 3;14:100008. doi: 10.1016/j.jarlif.2025.100008. eCollection
 2025.

Factors affecting participation in web-based Alzheimer's questionnaire surveys: 
Lessons from the Japanese trial-ready cohort.

Nakashima S(1), Sato K(2)(3), Niimi Y(3)(4), Toda T(1), Iwatsubo T(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Neuropathology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Unit for Early and Exploratory Development, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Healthcare Economics and Health Policy, Graduate School of 
Medicine, The University of Tokyo.

BACKGROUND: Web-based approach is considered helpful for the research focused on 
screening and early detection of individuals with preclinical Alzheimer's 
disease (AD); obtaining sufficient responses is critical to the success of such 
online study.
OBJECTIVES: This study examined factors influencing response rates to an online 
survey about disease-modifying drugs for AD among participants in the Japanese 
Trial-Ready Cohort (J-TRC) webstudy.
DESIGN: This was a retrospective observational study.
SETTINGS: Online survey in Japan using Google Forms.
PARTICIPANTS: We enrolled the eligible J-TRC webstudy participants who had 
registered before September 2023. We sent them an invitation e-mail including a 
questionnaire web address on November-December 2023, in order to conduct an 
online survey regarding their perceptions of disease-modifying therapy drug that 
was approved in July 2023, Japan.
MEASUREMENTS: We analyzed the impact of mailed day of the week (DOW), 
participant gender, age, employment status, and educational background 
with/without response to the invitation, quantified by the odds ratio of 
response.
RESULTS: Among approximately 10,400 J-TRC web study participants who sent 
invitation emails, the overall response rate was approximately 20 %, without 
significant influence depending on the DOW when the survey invitation was sent. 
Individuals who were older (50s-70s), retired, or had higher education levels 
were significantly more likely to respond, regardless of the DOW. Differences in 
response rates by sex/gender were observed, but were largely influenced by the 
employment status.
CONCLUSIONS: In order to improve response rates and enhance data quality, these 
findings provide valuable insights for optimizing the design of future online 
studies/surveys in the field of AD and dementia, particularly for targeting 
cognitively unimpaired middle-aged and older populations.

© 2025 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jarlif.2025.100008
PMCID: PMC11925097
PMID: 40115874

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following financial 
interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing 
interests: Kenichiro Sato reports financial support was provided by Japan 
Society for the Promotion of Science. Takeshi Iwatsubo reports financial support 
was provided by Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development. Yoshiki Niimi 
reports financial support was provided by Japan Agency for Medical Research and 
Development. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


10. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2025 Mar 6;15:1433131. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2025.1433131. eCollection 2025.

Deconstruct the link between gut microbiota and neurological diseases: 
application of Mendelian randomization analysis.

Li J(#)(1), Hu X(#)(2), Tao X(#)(2), Li Y(#)(2), Jiang W(3), Zhao M(1), Ma Z(1), 
Chen B(2), Sheng S(2), Tong J(2), Zhang H(2), Shen B(4), Gao X(2).

Author information:
(1)Second Clinical Medical College, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.
(2)Frist Clinical Medical College, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Drum Tower Hospital, Medical School of 
Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.
(4)Dr. Neher's Biophysics Laboratory for Innovative Drug Discovery, State Key 
Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Macau University of Science 
and Technology, Macao, Macao SAR, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Recent research on the gut-brain axis has deepened our understanding 
of the correlation between gut bacteria and the neurological system. The 
inflammatory response triggered by gut microbiota may be associated with 
neurodegenerative diseases. Additionally, the impact of gut microbiota on 
emotional state, known as the "Gut-mood" relationship, could play a role in 
depression and anxiety disorders.
RESULTS: This review summarizes recent data on the role of gut-brain axis in the 
pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders including 
epilepsy, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, brain cancer, Parkinson's disease, 
bipolar disorder and stroke. Also, we conducted a Mendelian randomization study 
on seven neurological disorders (Epilepsy, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, 
brain cancer, Parkinson's disease, bipolar disorder and stroke). MR-Egger and 
MR-PRESSO tests confirmed the robustness of analysis against horizontal 
pleiotropy.
CONCLUSIONS: By comparing the protective and risk factors for neurological 
disorders found in our research and other researches, we can furtherly determine 
valuable indicators for disease evolution tracking and potential treatment 
targets. Future research should explore extensive microbiome genome-wide 
association study datasets using metagenomics sequencing techniques to deepen 
our understanding of connections and causality between neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Li, Hu, Tao, Li, Jiang, Zhao, Ma, Chen, Sheng, Tong, Zhang, 
Shen and Gao.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2025.1433131
PMCID: PMC11922733
PMID: 40115072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


11. Front Immunol. 2025 Mar 6;16:1494114. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1494114. 
eCollection 2025.

Ambroxol attenuates detrimental effect of LPS-induced glia-mediated 
neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and cognitive dysfunction in mice brain.

Ullah S(#)(1), Park TJ(#)(2), Park JS(#)(1), Atiq A(1), Ali J(1), Kang MH(1), 
Ali W(1), Choe K(1)(3), Kim MO(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science and Applied Life Science (BK21 FOUR), College of 
Natural Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju, Republic of Korea.
(2)Haemato-oncology/Systems Medicine Group, Paul O'Gorman Leukaemia Research 
Centre, Institute of Cancer Sciences, College of Medical, Veterinary and Life 
Sciences (MVLS), University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, School for Mental Health and 
Neuroscience (MHeNs), Maastricht University, Mastricht, Netherlands.
(4)Alz-Dementia Korea Co., Jinju, Republic of Korea.
(#)Contributed equally

Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's 
disease (PD), are multifactorial. Among various factors, lipopolysaccharides 
(LPSs) from Gram-negative bacteria, such as E. coli, are considered potential 
causative agents. Despite significant advancements in the field, there is still 
no cure. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of ambroxol 
against LPS-induced neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, neurodegeneration, and 
the associated cognitive dysfunction. Intraperitoneal injection of LPS (250 
µg/kg every alternative day for a total of seven doses over 14 days) triggered 
glial cell activation, neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and 
neurodegeneration in the mouse brain. Ambroxol treatment (30 mg/kg/day for 14 
days) significantly reduced neuroinflammation and oxidative stress compared to 
LPS-treated mice. Immunoblotting and immunofluorescence results showed that 
ambroxol reduced levels of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and oxidative stress 
kinase phospho-c-Jun N-terminal Kinase 1 (p-JNK). It also decreased astrocyte 
and microglia activation in the cortex and hippocampus of LPS+ Amb-treated mice, 
as indicated by the downregulation of GFAP and Iba-1. Furthermore, 
ambroxol-reversed LPS-induced neuroinflammation by inhibiting inflammatory 
mediators, such as IL-1β and TNF-α, through regulation of the transcription 
factor p-NFkB. Persistent neuroinflammation disrupted the natural antioxidant 
mechanisms, leading to oxidative stress. Ambroxol treatment upregulated 
antioxidant markers, including Nrf-2, HO-1, and SOD, which were downregulated in 
the LPS-treated group. Additionally, ambroxol-inhibited lipid peroxidation, 
maintaining malondialdehyde levels in the mouse brain. Ambroxol also improves 
synaptic integrity by upregulating synaptic biomarkers, including PSD-95 and 
SNAP-23. Overall, ambroxol demonstrated anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and 
neuroprotective effects in LPS-treated mice, highlighting its potential benefits 
in neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Ullah, Park, Park, Atiq, Ali, Kang, Ali, Choe and Kim.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2025.1494114
PMCID: PMC11923628
PMID: 40114925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author MOK was employed by the company 
Alz-Dementia Korea Co. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


12. Brain Commun. 2025 Mar 6;7(2):fcaf103. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf103. 
eCollection 2025.

LRRK2-associated parkinsonism with and without in vivo evidence of 
alpha-synuclein aggregates: longitudinal clinical and biomarker 
characterization.

Chahine LM(1), Lafontant DE(2), Choi SH(2), Iwaki H(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Blauwendraat 
C(4)(5)(7), Singleton AB(4)(5)(6)(7), Brumm MC(2), Alcalay RN(8)(9), Merchant 
K(10), Nudelman KNH(11), Dagher A(12), Vo A(12), Tao Q(12), Venuto CS(13), 
Kieburtz K(13), Poston KL(14), Bressman S(15), Gonzalez-Latapi P(10), Avants 
B(16), Coffey C(2), Jennings D(17), Tolosa E(18)(19), Siderowf A(20), Marek 
K(21), Simuni T(10); Parkinson’s Progression Markers Initiative.

Collaborators: Marek K, Tanner C, Simuni T, Siderowf A, Galasko D, Chahine L, 
Coffey C, Merchant K, Poston K, Dobkin R, Foroud T, Mollenhauer B, Weintraub D, 
Brown E, Kieburtz K, Frasier M, Sherer T, Chowdhury S, Alcalay R, Videnovic A, 
Tosun-Turgut D, Poewe W, Bressman S, Hammer J, James R, Riley E, Seibyl J, Shaw 
L, Standaert D, Mantri S, Dahodwala N, Schwarzschild M, Marras C, Fernandez H, 
Shoulson I, Rowbotham H, Casalin P, Trenkwalder C, Eberling J, Kopil K, O'Grady 
A, McGuire Kuhl M, Kirsch L, Willson T, Flagg E, McMahon B, Stanley C, Fabrizio 
K, Ecklund D, Huff T, Heathers L, Hobbick C, Antonopoulos G, Caspell-Garcia C, 
Brumm M, Toga A, Crawford K, Hamer J, Galasko D, Singleton A, Montine T, Dobkin 
R, Korell M, Adler C, Amara A, Barone P, Bloem B, Brockmann K, Brüggemann N, 
Chou K, Espay A, Factor S, Fullard M, Hauser R, Hogarth P, Hu SC, Hu M, Isaacson 
S, Klein C, Krueger R, Lew M, Mari Z, Jose Martí M, McFarland N, Mestre T, 
Moukheiber E, Noyce A, Oertel W, Okubadejo N, O'Shea S, Pahwa R, Pavese N, 
Postuma R, Riboldi G, Ruffrage L, Ruiz Martinez J, Russell D, Saint-Hilaire MH, 
Santos N, Schlett W, Schneider R, Shill H, Shprecher D, Stefanis L, Tai Y, 
Tarakad A, Tolosa E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, College of Public Health, University of Iowa, 
Iowa City, IA 55848, USA.
(3)DataTecnica LLC, Washington, DC 20037, USA.
(4)Center for Alzheimer's and Related Dementias, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(5)National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892, USA.
(6)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(7)Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892, USA.
(8)Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, 64239 Tel-Aviv, Israel.
(9)Department of Neurology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, 
NY 10032, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.
(11)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University, 
Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(12)Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada H3A 
2B4.
(13)Department of Neurology, Center for Health and Technology, University of 
Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY 14642,USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, 
94304 CA, USA.
(15)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai Beth Israel, 
New York City, NY 10029, USA.
(16)Invicro, LLC, Needham, MA 02494, USA.
(17)Denali Therapeutics Inc., South San Francisco, CA 94080, USA.
(18)Parkinson's Disease & Movement Disorders Unit, Neurology Service, Hospital 
Clínic de Barcelona, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer 
(IDIBAPS), 08036 Barcelona, Spain.
(19)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.
(20)Department of Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(21)Institute for Neurodegenerative Disorders, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Jul 22:2024.07.22.24310806. doi: 10.1101/2024.07.22.24310806.

Among LRRK2-associated parkinsonism cases with nigral degeneration, over 
two-thirds demonstrate evidence of pathologic alpha-synuclein, but many do not. 
Understanding the clinical phenotype and underlying biology in such individuals 
is critical for therapeutic development. Our objective was to compare clinical 
and biomarker features, and rate of progression over 4 years of follow-up, among 
LRRK2-associated parkinsonism cases with and without in vivo evidence of 
alpha-synuclein aggregates. Data were from the Parkinson's Progression Markers 
Initiative, a multicentre prospective cohort study. The sample included 
individuals diagnosed with Parkinson disease with pathogenic variants in LRRK2. 
Presence of CSF alpha-synuclein aggregation was assessed with seed amplification 
assay. A range of clinician- and patient-reported outcome assessments were 
administered. Biomarkers included dopamine transporter scan, CSF 
amyloid-beta1-42, total tau, phospho-tau181, urine 
bis(monoacylglycerol)phosphate levels and serum neurofilament light chain. 
Linear mixed-effects (LMMs) models examined differences in trajectory in 
CSF-negative and CSF-positive groups. A total of 148 LRRK2 parkinsonism cases 
(86% with G2019S variant), 46 negative and 102 positive for CSF alpha-synuclein 
seed amplification assay, were included. At baseline, the negative group was 
older than the positive group [median (inter-quartile range) 69.1 (65.2-72.3) 
versus 61.5 (55.6-66.9) years, P < 0.001] and a greater proportion were female 
[28 (61%) versus 43 (42%), P = 0.035]. Despite being older, the negative group 
had similar duration since diagnosis and similar motor rating scale [16 (11-23) 
versus 16 (10-22), P = 0.480] though lower levodopa equivalents. Only 13 (29%) 
of the negative group were hyposmic, compared with 75 (77%) of the positive 
group. The negative group, compared with the positive group, had higher per 
cent-expected putamenal dopamine transporter binding for their age and sex [0.36 
(0.29-0.45) versus 0.26 (0.22-0.37), P < 0.001]. Serum neurofilament light chain 
was higher in the negative group compared with the positive group [17.10 
(13.60-22.10) versus 10.50 (8.43-14.70) pg/mL; age-adjusted P-value = 0.013]. In 
terms of longitudinal change, the negative group remained stable in functional 
rating scale score in contrast to the positive group who had a significant 
increase (worsening) of 0.729 per year (P = 0.037), but no other differences in 
trajectory were found. Among individuals diagnosed with Parkinson disease with 
pathogenic variants in the LRRK2 gene, we found clinical and biomarker 
differences in cases without versus with in vivo evidence of CSF alpha-synuclein 
aggregates. LRRK2 parkinsonism cases without evidence of alpha-synuclein 
aggregates as a group exhibit less severe motor manifestations and decline. The 
underlying biology in LRRK2 parkinsonism cases without evidence of 
alpha-synuclein aggregates requires further investigation.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf103
PMCID: PMC11925012
PMID: 40114783

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests.


13. Brain Commun. 2025 Mar 11;7(2):fcaf108. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf108. 
eCollection 2025.

Higher plasma neurofilament-light chain concentration in drug-resistant 
epilepsy.

Akel S(1)(2), Axelsson M(1)(3), Asztely F(1)(4), Zetterberg 
H(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Zelano J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg 41345, 
Sweden.
(2)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, Gothenburg 41126, 
Sweden.
(3)Department of Neurology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Member of ERN 
Epicare, Gothenburg 41345, Sweden.
(4)Department of Neurology, Angered Hospital, Angered 42422, Sweden.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal 43180, 
Sweden.
(6)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal 
43180, Sweden.
(7)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London 
WC1E 6BT, UK.
(8)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(9)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong 1512-1518, China.
(10)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI 53726, USA.

Drug-resistant epilepsy is the most severe form of epilepsy and is frequently 
associated with cognitive decline. Whether drug-resistant epilepsy results in 
neurodegeneration or other types of brain injury is not known, and early 
detection of detrimental clinical trajectories would be clinically very useful. 
Blood biomarkers of brain injury reflect neurodegeneration or brain injury in 
several brain diseases but have not been extensively studied in epilepsy. We 
investigated a panel of such markers in a large epilepsy cohort with an emphasis 
on assessing differences between drug-resistant and monotherapy-controlled 
epilepsy. Blood neurofilament light, glial fibrillary acidic protein, total tau, 
S100 calcium-binding protein B and neuron-specific enolase concentrations were 
measured in 444 patients (aged ≥ 18 years) with epilepsy participating in a 
prospective regional Biobank study in Västra Götaland (Sweden). Multiple linear 
regression assessed associations between clinical variables and marker levels. 
Levels were then compared between patients with drug-resistant epilepsy (n = 
101) and patients with monotherapy-controlled epilepsy (n = 164). We also 
performed logistic regression analysis to evaluate the significance of the 
markers as predictors of epilepsy status (drug-resistant epilepsy or 
monotherapy-controlled epilepsy) while controlling for clinical variables: age, 
sex, epilepsy duration, epilepsy type and lesions. All markers correlated with 
age. In younger patients (≤50 years), cases of drug-resistant epilepsy had 
higher levels of neurofilament light (P = 0.002) and glial fibrillary acidic 
protein (P = 0.006) compared with monotherapy-controlled epilepsy. After 
excluding patients with known structural lesions, neurofilament light levels 
remained significantly elevated in drug-resistant epilepsy versus 
monotherapy-controlled epilepsy (P = 0.029). Neurofilament light also emerged as 
a significant predictor of drug-resistant status in a logistic regression model 
following adjustments for clinical variables. Future studies should explore if 
neurofilament light can be used for surveillance of disease course and whether 
it reflects brain injury in drug-resistant epilepsy.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf108
PMCID: PMC11925020
PMID: 40114782

Conflict of interest statement: M.A. has received compensation for lectures 
and/or advisory boards from Biogen, Genzyme and Novartis. F.A. has received 
compensation for non-branded education events and participating in an advisory 
board from Angelini Pharma Nordics for non-branded education events. H.Z. has 
served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, 
Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, 
AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, 
Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, 
Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics and Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk and Roche, and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB, which is a part of the 
GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). J.Z. received speaker 
honoraria from UCB and Eisai for non-branded education events; and as an 
employee of Sahlgrenska University Hospital is or has been an 
investigator/sub-investigator in clinical trials sponsored by GW Pharma, SK life 
science, UCB, Angilini Pharma and Bial (no personal compensation). S.A. reports 
no conflicts of interest.


14. Mol Ther Nucleic Acids. 2024 Dec 23;36(1):102439. doi: 
10.1016/j.omtn.2024.102439. eCollection 2025 Mar 11.

Therapeutic potential and microRNA regulating properties of phytochemicals in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Kumari A(1)(2)(3), Rahaman A(2)(3), Zeng XA(1)(2)(3), Baloch Z(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Food Science and Engineering, South China University of Technology, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(2)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Food Intelligent Manufacturing, Foshan 
University, Foshan, Guangdong, China.
(3)School of Food Science and Engineering, Foshan University, Foshan, Guangdong, 
China.
(4)Faculty of Science and Technology, Kunming University of Science and 
Technology, Kunming, Yunan, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia in the elderly and is 
characterized by the aggregation of Aβ (peptide) and neurofibrillary tangles 
along with inflammatory processes. Aging is a significant driver of these 
alterations, and dementia is a major cause of disability and mortality. Despite 
extensive clinical trials over the past two decades, no effective drug has been 
developed to improve AD symptoms or slow its progression, indicating the 
inefficiency of current treatment targets. In AD development, the molecular 
microenvironment plays a significant role. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a key 
component of this microenvironment, regulate post-transcriptional gene 
expression, and are expressed more abundantly in the brain than in other 
tissues. Several dysregulated miRNAs in AD have been linked to neuropathological 
changes, such as plaque and tangle accrual, as well as altered expression of 
notorious molecules. Preclinical studies have confirmed the efficacy of 
phytochemicals/food bioactive compounds (PCs/FBCs) in regulating miRNA 
expression, which makes them immensely beneficial for targeting miRNA-altered 
expression patterns in neuronal diseases. This review highlights the potential 
of miRNAs in driving AD pathology and its development. Furthermore, it discusses 
the therapeutic efficacy of PCs/FBCs and their miRNA-regulatory properties, 
especially focusing on antiinflammatory and antioxidant capacities for their 
development as effective AD agents.

© 2024 Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of The American Society of Gene and 
Cell Therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.omtn.2024.102439
PMCID: PMC11925107
PMID: 40114707

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare no competing interests.


15. Curr Pharm Des. 2025 Mar 20. doi: 10.2174/0113816128362577250227081919.
Online  ahead of print.

Nano-healing: Exploring the Therapeutic Potentials of Nanomedicine for CNS 
Disorders.

Ahmad F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia Technology, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, 
Jubail, Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: Nanomedicine offers immense potential in the field of Central 
Nervous System (CNS) disorder treatment, encompassing conditions such as 
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, and 
stroke.
METHOD: Through the utilization of nanotechnology-driven drug delivery systems, 
the efficacy of drugs can be amplified, their toxicity minimized, and their 
bioavailability increased, enabling them to effectively reach the intended site 
within the CNS. This review aims to examine the therapeutic possibilities that 
nanomedicine presents in addressing these debilitating disorders. This 
exploration entails an analysis of diverse nanotechnology- based approaches for 
CNS drug delivery, including polymeric nanoparticles, liposomes, dendrimers, and 
carbon nanotubes. Moreover, notable advancements in nanotechnology-based 
therapeutics for CNS disorders are highlighted, such as the application of 
nanoparticles for delivering curcumin in Alzheimer's disease, liposomes for 
delivering L-DOPA in Parkinson's disease, and dendrimers for delivering 
interferon-beta in multiple sclerosis.
RESULTS: Additionally, the potential of nanotechnology-based approaches in the 
treatment of epilepsy and stroke is discussed. The review concludes by 
addressing the challenges faced and emphasizes the significant potential of 
clinical trials in enhancing drug delivery and future prospects in the 
development of nanotechnology- based therapeutics for CNS disorders.
CONCLUSION: Overall, the therapeutic potential of nanomedicine in CNS disorder 
treatment is vast, instilling optimism for the creation of safe and effective 
therapies for these devastating conditions.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113816128362577250227081919
PMID: 40114579


16. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2025;24(9):685-700. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273355336250226055826.

Oxidative Stress and the Role of Immune Cells in Alzheimer's Disease: 
Therapeutic Implications and Future Perspectives.

Puranik N(1), Song M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan 38541, Republic 
of Korea.

The most common neurodegenerative illness and leading cause of death in the 
world is Alzheimer's disease (AD), which is extremely expensive to treat. None 
of the AD treatments that are currently in the market with approval have any 
effect on disease progression. However, numerous clinical studies aimed at 
reducing amyloid beta (Aβ) plaque development, boosting Aβ clearance, or 
reducing neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) failed or had conflicting results. As 
oxidative stress (OS), mitochondrial dysfunction, and chronic neuroinflammation 
are implicated in numerous interconnected vicious cascades, research has 
revealed new therapeutic targets, including enhancing mitochondrial 
bioenergetics and quality control, reducing oxidative stress, or modulating 
neuroinflammatory pathways. This review examines the role of oxidative stress 
(OS), mitochondrial dysfunction, neuroinflammation, and the interplay between 
peripheral and central immune systems in the pathogenesis of AD. We highlight 
how OS and immune dysregulation drive chronic neuroinflammation, exacerbating AD 
progression. Immune cells and inflammatory molecules emerge as critical players 
in disease pathology. Overall, this review concludes that targeting OS and 
immune system crosstalk represents promising therapeutic strategies for 
mitigating AD progression, providing a foundation for future interventions.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273355336250226055826
PMID: 40114567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Clin Neuropsychol. 2025 Mar 20:1-20. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2025.2481119.
Online  ahead of print.

Associations between the logical memory test story recall metrics and plasma 
biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease in individuals free of dementia.

Jauregi-Zinkunegi A(1), Wilson RE(2), E Langhough R(2)(3)(4), Ashton NJ(5), 
Blennow K(5), Johnson SC(2)(3)(4)(6), Zetterberg H(2)(5)(7)(8)(9)(10), Bruno 
D(1), Mueller KD(2)(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Liverpool John Moores University, Liverpool, UK.
(2)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(3)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(6)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center of the Wm. S. Middleton 
Memorial Veterans Hospital, Madison, WI, USA.
(7)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(8)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(10)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(11)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, University of Wisconsin 
- Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(12)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine 
and Public Health, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI, USA.

Objective: Blood-based biomarkers are valued for their lower cost and less 
invasive nature, though issues with widespread implementation and accessibility 
remain. Process-based scores from story recall have been shown to detect 
neuronal network disturbances typical of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology more 
effectively than traditional metrics. This study examined the associations 
between process-based scores and concurrent plasma AD biomarkers in older adults 
without dementia, while also comparing them to traditional metrics. 
Additionally, it also investigated the diagnostic utility of these metrics in 
detecting plasma p-tau217 positivity. Methods: Data from 416 participants (mean 
age = 66.6 ± 7) free of dementia were extracted from the Wisconsin Registry for 
Alzheimer's Prevention (WRAP). Logical Memory Test (LMT) and plasma p-tau217, 
p-tau181, p-tau231, Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio, GFAP and NfL levels were analyzed. Bayesian 
regression models assessed associations between plasma biomarkers and both 
process-based and traditional LMT scores, controlling for the covariates. 
Results: The best-fitting model for plasma p-tau217 included Total ratio (Tr) 
and Immediate recall (BF10=573), but Tr showed stronger evidence of association 
(mean coefficient = 0.208; BFinclusion=14.4) than Immediate recall (mean 
coefficient=-0.007; BFinclusion=1.7). Tr was also the best predictor of plasma 
p-tau181 (mean coefficient = 0.144; BF10=10.5) and GFAP (mean coefficient = 
0.141; BF10=5.8), outperforming traditional LMT scores. No memory scores were 
associated with plasma p-tau231 or Aβ42/40 ratio levels. Tr score was the 
strongest single predictor of p-tau217 positivity (BF10=38). Conclusions: These 
findings suggest that process-based memory scores might be useful in enhancing 
the detection of neuronal network disturbances associated with AD pathology, 
especially in settings where biomarker testing is unavailable.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2025.2481119
PMCID: PMC12353963
PMID: 40114424

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest AJZ, REW, REL, NAJ, KB, 
SCJ, DB, and KDM have nothing to declare. HZ has served at scientific advisory 
boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, 
Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work).


18. J Biomed Semantics. 2025 Mar 20;16(1):3. doi: 10.1186/s13326-025-00328-3.

Enriched knowledge representation in biological fields: a case study of 
literature-based discovery in Alzheimer's disease.

Pu Y(1), Beck D(2), Verspoor K(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne, 700 
Swanston St, Melbourne, VIC 3053, Victoria, Australia.
(2)School of Computing Technologies, RMIT University, 124 La Trobe St, 
Melbourne, VIC 3000, Victoria, Australia.
(3)School of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne, 700 
Swanston St, Melbourne, VIC 3053, Victoria, Australia. 
karin.verspoor@rmit.edu.au.
(4)School of Computing Technologies, RMIT University, 124 La Trobe St, 
Melbourne, VIC 3000, Victoria, Australia. karin.verspoor@rmit.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: In Literature-based Discovery (LBD), Swanson's original ABC model 
brought together isolated public knowledge statements and assembled them to 
infer putative hypotheses via logical connections. Modern LBD studies that scale 
up this approach through automation typically rely on a simple entity-based 
knowledge graph with co-occurrences and/or semantic triples as basic building 
blocks. However, our analysis of a knowledge graph constructed for a recent LBD 
system reveals limitations arising from such pairwise representations, which 
further negatively impact knowledge inference. Using LBD as the context and 
motivation in this work, we explore limitations of using pairwise relationships 
only as knowledge representation in knowledge graphs, and we identify impacts of 
these limitations on knowledge inference. We argue that enhanced knowledge 
representation is beneficial for biological knowledge representation in general, 
as well as for both the quality and the specificity of hypotheses proposed with 
LBD.
RESULTS: Based on a systematic analysis of one co-occurrence-based LBD system 
focusing on Alzheimer's Disease, we identify 7 types of limitations arising from 
the exclusive use of pairwise relationships in a standard knowledge 
graph-including the need to capture more than two entities interacting together 
in a single event-and 3 types of negative impacts on knowledge inferred with the 
graph-Experimentally infeasible hypotheses, Literature-inconsistent hypotheses, 
and Oversimplified hypotheses explanations. We also present an indicative 
distribution of different types of relationships. Pairwise relationships are an 
essential component in representation frameworks for knowledge discovery. 
However, only 20% of discoveries are perfectly represented with pairwise 
relationships alone. 73% require a combination of pairwise relationships and 
nested relationships. The remaining 7% are represented with pairwise 
relationships, nested relationships, and hypergraphs.
CONCLUSION: We argue that the standard entity pair-based knowledge graph, while 
essential for representing basic binary relations, results in important 
limitations for comprehensive biological knowledge representation and impacts 
downstream tasks such as proposing meaningful discoveries in LBD. These 
limitations can be mitigated by integrating more semantically complex knowledge 
representation strategies, including capturing collective interactions and 
allowing for nested entities. The use of more sophisticated knowledge 
representation will benefit biological fields with more expressive knowledge 
graphs. Downstream tasks, such as LBD, can benefit from richer representations 
as well, allowing for generation of implicit knowledge discoveries and 
explanations for disease diagnosis, treatment, and mechanism that are more 
biologically meaningful.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13326-025-00328-3
PMCID: PMC11924609
PMID: 40114255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


19. BMC Prim Care. 2025 Mar 20;26(1):74. doi: 10.1186/s12875-025-02770-9.

The role of a specialized memory clinic supporting primary care providers in a 
safety net health system.

Joe EB(1)(2), Segal-Gidan F(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Memory and Aging Center, Department of Neurology, Keck School of Medicine of 
USC, 1520 San Pablo Street Suite 3000, Los Angeles, CA, 90033, USA. 
elizabeth.joe@med.usc.edu.
(2)USC Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 1520 San Pablo Street Suite 3000, 
Los Angeles, CA, 90033, USA. elizabeth.joe@med.usc.edu.
(3)Memory and Aging Center, Department of Neurology, Keck School of Medicine of 
USC, 1520 San Pablo Street Suite 3000, Los Angeles, CA, 90033, USA.
(4)USC Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 1520 San Pablo Street Suite 3000, 
Los Angeles, CA, 90033, USA.
(5)USC-Rancho California Alzheimers Disease Center, Geriatric Neurobehavior and 
Alzheimers Center, Rancho los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center, 7601 
Imperial Hwy, Harriman Bldg, Suite 7, Downey, CA, 90242, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although most dementia care occurs in primary care, consultation 
with dementia specialty care is sometimes indicated. Access to dementia 
specialists is limited, particularly in resource-limited environments such as 
the public health safety net, which may require triaging referrals to preserve 
access for patients with needs that can not be met in a primary care setting.
METHODS: The eConsult system for primary care providers to refer patients to a 
subspecialty memory clinic is described for a large safety net health system. 
Demographic and clinical characteristics are presented for patients evaluated 
within the memory clinic setting compared to the health system overall. 
ICD-10-CM codes were used to identify cognitive diagnoses and medical 
comorbidities. Chi-squared tests were used to compare categorical variables and 
t-tests for continuous variables.
RESULTS: 94 individuals age 50 or older were seen in the memory clinic in 2019, 
of whom 43 were new evaluations. The most common visit diagnoses for new memory 
clinic patients were Alzheimer's disease (33%), no cognitive diagnosis (28%), 
unspecified dementia (19%), and mild cognitive impairment (12%); for follow up 
patients, the most common diagnoses were Alzheimer's disease (49%), unspecified 
dementia (18%), no cognitive diagnosis (14%), and mild cognitive impairment 
(10%). For those without a cognitive diagnosis, common visit diagnoses included 
cognitive symptoms, mood or sleep disorders, and metabolic disturbances. Of the 
11 new internal referrals with a prior coded diagnosis of dementia, median time 
from first diagnosis to their initial memory clinic visit was 224 days.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite clear systemwide parameters for referral and extensive 
pre-referral screening via an eConsult system, the most common diagnosis for 
memory clinic patients was Alzheimer's disease. Direct studies of eConsult are 
needed to determine primary care providers' needs when referring patients with 
dementia to a memory clinic setting.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12875-025-02770-9
PMCID: PMC11924729
PMID: 40114073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was determined to be exempt from 45 CFR 46 according to 
§ 46.104(d) as category 4 by USC’s Institutional Review Board (protocol 
HS-21-00814), and the requirement for informed consent was therefore waived. All 
research was conducted with ethical standards in accordance with the Declaration 
of Helsinki. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: FSG 
receives salary support from Los Angeles County Department of Health Services.


20. Transl Psychiatry. 2025 Mar 20;15(1):89. doi: 10.1038/s41398-025-03298-3.

Dopaminergic changes in the subgenual cingulate cortex in dementia with lewy 
bodies associates with presence of depression.

Gliaudelytė L(1), Rushton SP(2), Berlinguer-Palmini R(3), Thomas AJ(4)(5)(6)(7), 
Morris CM(4)(7).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Society Doctoral Training Centre, Edwardson Building, Newcastle 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. lina.patterson@newcastle.ac.uk.
(2)School of Natural and Environmental Sciences, Agriculture Building, Newcastle 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)Bioimaging Unit, Leech Building, Newcastle University, Framlington Place, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(4)Alzheimer's Society Doctoral Training Centre, Edwardson Building, Newcastle 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(5)Biomedical Research Building, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(6)Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Queen Elizabeth Avenue, Gateshead, Tyne and Wear, 
UK.
(7)Newcastle Brain Tissue Resource, Edwardson Building, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

In addition to the core clinical features of fluctuating cognition, visual 
hallucinations, and parkinsonism, individuals with dementia with Lewy bodies 
(DLB) frequently experience chronic and debilitating major depression. Treatment 
of depression in DLB is hampered by a lack of available effective therapies and 
standard serotonergic medication for major depressive disorder (MDD) is 
typically ineffective. Dysfunction of dopaminergic neurotransmission 
contributing to anhedonia and loss of motivation has been described in MDD. The 
subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sgACC) is important in mood regulation and 
in the symptomatic expression of depression, displaying structural, functional 
and metabolic abnormalities in MDD. To assess dopaminergic and serotonergic 
synaptic changes in DLB, post mortem sgACC tissue from DLB donors with and 
without depression was investigated using high-resolution stimulated emission 
depletion (STED) microscopy, as well as Western and dot blotting techniques. 
STED imaging demonstrated the presence of α-synuclein within individual 
dopaminergic terminals in the sgACC, α-synuclein presence showing a significant 
positive correlation with increased synaptosomal associated protein 25 kDa 
(SNAP25) volumes in depressed DLB cases. A reduction in dopaminergic innervation 
in the sgACC was observed in DLB cases with depression compared to controls 
(p < 0.001), but not in non-depressed DLB donors, along with reduced levels of 
multiple dopaminergic markers and receptors. Limited alterations were observed 
in serotonergic markers. Our work demonstrates a role for dopaminergic 
neurotransmission in the aetiology of depression in DLB. Careful and selective 
targeting of dopaminergic systems in the sgACC may be a therapeutic option for 
treatment of depression in DLB.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-025-03298-3
PMCID: PMC11926374
PMID: 40113786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. The views expressed are those of the author(s) and not 
necessarily those of the NHS, NIHR or the UK Department of Health.


21. Nat Commun. 2025 Mar 20;16(1):2748. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-57995-0.

Computational memory capacity predicts aging and cognitive decline.

Mijalkov M(1), Storm L(2), Zufiria-Gerbolés B(3), Veréb D(3), Xu Z(3), 
Canal-Garcia A(3), Sun J(3), Chang YW(2), Zhao H(2), Gómez-Ruiz E(2), Passaretti 
M(3), Garcia-Ptacek S(4)(5), Kivipelto M(4)(6), Svenningsson P(3), Zetterberg 
H(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12), Jacobs H(13)(14), Lüdge K(15), Brunner D(16), Mehlig 
B(2), Volpe G(17), Pereira JB(18).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Division of Neuro, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. mite.mijalkov@ki.se.
(2)Department of Physics, Goteborg University, Goteborg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Division of Neuro, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of Clinical 
Geriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Theme Inflammation and Aging. Aging Brain Theme. Karolinska University 
Hospital, Solna, Sweden.
(6)University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(9)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(10)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(11)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(12)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(13)Maastricht University, Maastricht, Netherlands.
(14)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(15)Institute of Physics, Technische Universität Ilmenau, Weimarer Straße 25, 
Ilmenau, Germany.
(16)Institut FEMTO-ST, Université Franche-Comté, CNRS, Besançon, France.
(17)Department of Physics, Goteborg University, Goteborg, Sweden. 
giovanni.volpe@physics.gu.se.
(18)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Division of Neuro, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. joana.pereira@ki.se.

Memory is a crucial cognitive function that deteriorates with age. However, this 
ability is normally assessed using cognitive tests instead of the architecture 
of brain networks. Here, we use reservoir computing, a recurrent neural network 
computing paradigm, to assess the linear memory capacities of neural-network 
reservoirs extracted from brain anatomical connectivity data in a lifespan 
cohort of 636 individuals. The computational memory capacity emerges as a robust 
marker of aging, being associated with resting-state functional activity, white 
matter integrity, locus coeruleus signal intensity, and cognitive performance. 
We replicate our findings in an independent cohort of 154 young and 72 old 
individuals. By linking the computational memory capacity of the brain network 
with cognition, brain function and integrity, our findings open new pathways to 
employ reservoir computing to investigate aging and age-related disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-57995-0
PMCID: PMC11926346
PMID: 40113762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: H.Z. (Henrik Zetterberg) 
has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, 
Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, 
AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). The other co-authors declare no competing interests.


22. Neuron. 2025 May 7;113(9):1380-1397.e7. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2025.02.017.
Epub  2025 Mar 19.

APOE genotype determines cell-type-specific pathological landscape of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Li Z(1), Martens YA(1), Ren Y(2), Jin Y(1), Sekiya H(1), Doss SV(1), Kouri N(1), 
Castanedes-Casey M(1), Christensen TA(3), Miller Nevalainen LB(3), Takegami 
N(1), Chen K(1), Liu CC(1), Soto-Beasley A(1), Boon BDC(1), Labuzan SA(1), Ikezu 
TC(2), Chen Y(1), Bartkowiak AD(1), Xhafkollari G(1), Wetmore AM(1), Bennett 
DA(4), Reichard RR(5), Petersen RC(6), Kanekiyo T(1), Ross OA(1), Murray ME(1), 
Dickson DW(1), Bu G(7), Zhao N(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.
(2)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL 
32224, USA.
(3)Microscopy and Cell Analysis Core, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(4)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
60612, USA.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(7)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA. 
Electronic address: gbu@ust.hk.
(8)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA. 
Electronic address: zhao.na@mayo.edu.

The apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene is the strongest genetic risk modifier for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), with the APOE4 allele increasing risk and APOE2 
decreasing it compared with the common APOE3 allele. Using single-nucleus RNA 
sequencing of the temporal cortex from APOE2 carriers, APOE3 homozygotes, and 
APOE4 carriers, we found that AD-associated transcriptomic changes were highly 
APOE genotype dependent. Comparing AD with controls, APOE2 carriers showed 
upregulated synaptic and myelination-related pathways, preserving synapses and 
myelination at the protein level. Conversely, these pathways were downregulated 
in APOE3 homozygotes, resulting in reduced synaptic and myelination proteins. In 
APOE4 carriers, excitatory neurons displayed reduced synaptic pathways similar 
to APOE3, but oligodendrocytes showed upregulated myelination pathways like 
APOE2. However, their synaptic and myelination protein levels remained unchanged 
or increased. APOE4 carriers also showed increased pro-inflammatory signatures 
in microglia but reduced responses to amyloid-β pathology. These findings reveal 
APOE genotype-specific molecular alterations in AD across cell types.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2025.02.017
PMCID: PMC12333916
PMID: 40112813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests G.B. serves as a 
consultant for SciNeuro Pharmaceuticals and Kisbee Therapeutics. Y.A.M. is a 
current employee of SciNeuro Pharmaceuticals. C.-C.L. is a current employee of 
Biogen. R.C.P. serves as a consultant for Roche, Genentech, Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
and Nestle.


23. Neuropeptides. 2025 Jun;111:102517. doi: 10.1016/j.npep.2025.102517. Epub
2025  Mar 13.

Factors affecting the physical stability of peptide self-assembly in 
neurodegenerative disorders.

Saikia J(1), Sarkar M(1), Ramakrishnan V(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences & Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology 
Guwahati, Guwahati 781039, India.
(2)Department of Biosciences & Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology 
Guwahati, Guwahati 781039, India; Mehta Family School of Data Science & 
Artificial Intelligence, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Guwahati 
781039, India. Electronic address: vibin@iitg.ac.in.

Biological systems comprise of diverse biomolecules, including proteins, nucleic 
acids, lipids, and carbohydrates. Peptides, which are short chains of amino 
acids, exhibit unique properties when assembled to nano-level architectures. 
Self-assembling peptides possess a remarkable ability to organize into 
structured aggregates such as nanofibers, nanotubes, nanoribbons, and 
nanovesicles. These intricate structures are linked to neurodegenerative 
diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Prion disease, 
Huntington's disease, and type II diabetes. Peptide nano assembly can be guided 
by external stimuli, such as temperature, pH, ultrasound, electric and magnetic 
fields. In this review, the discussion will be centred around the various 
factors that influence the self-assembly of peptides alongside therapeutic 
interventions that align with the fundamental principles of thermodynamics and 
kinetics to modulate the aggregation characteristics of peptide self-assembly.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.npep.2025.102517
PMID: 40112745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


24. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(4):1212-1234. doi: 10.1177/13872877251322978. 
Epub 2025 Mar 20.

Diagnostic journey and management of patients with mild cognitive impairment and 
Alzheimer's disease dementia: A multinational, real-world survey.

Vasileva-Metodiev SZ(1), Spargo D(1), Klein EG(1), Quevenco FC(1), Cotton S(2), 
Sanchez-Juan P(3), Niimi Y(4), Fowler NR(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(2)Adelphi Real World, Bollington, UK.
(3)Alzheimer's Centre Reina Sofia-CIEN Foundation-ISCIII, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Unit for Early and Exploratory Clinical Development, The University of Tokyo 
Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
IN, USA.
(6)Indiana University Center for Aging Research, Indianapolis, IN, USA.

BackgroundAn Alzheimer's disease (AD) diagnosis made in the earliest symptomatic 
stages substantially benefits patients and their care partners. However, little 
is known regarding the clinical, healthcare system-level, and patient-specific 
barriers that hinder timely diagnosis and treatment.ObjectiveTo explore 
real-world practices surrounding the diagnostic journey and management of mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI)/AD dementia patients.MethodsData were drawn from 
Adelphi Real World Dementia Disease Specific Programme™, a cross-sectional 
survey of physicians treating MCI/AD dementia patients in France, Germany, 
Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Japan between 2022 and 
2024.ResultsOverall, 779 physicians reported data on 5551 patients. Physicians 
indicated current disease severity for 5421 patients; 37.2% had MCI (87.3% with 
suspected prodromal AD and 12.7% undetermined etiology), 17.2% AD with mild 
dementia, 31.1% AD with moderate dementia, and 14.5% AD with severe dementia. 
When not immediately diagnosed, the median time from first consultation to 
initial diagnosis was 8.9 and 12.6 weeks when patients first consulted and were 
diagnosed by either a primary care practitioner (PCP) or a specialist, 
respectively, compared with 21.6 weeks when a PCP referred to a specialist for 
diagnosis. Diagnostic delays were predominantly due to specialist wait times. 
Few patients had diagnostic AD biomarker tests (cerebrospinal fluid testing 
9.5%, amyloid positron emission tomography 3.7%, AD-blood tests 
5.3%).ConclusionsTimely MCI and AD diagnosis is impeded by referral delays and 
limited use of biomarker testing. Addressing these critical care gaps requires 
enhanced physician training, reduced wait times and increased biomarker 
utilization for early management.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251322978
PMCID: PMC12231793
PMID: 40112330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsSimona Z 
Vasileva-Metodiev, Drew Spargo, Eric G Klein, and Frances-Catherine Quevenco are 
employees and shareholders of Eli Lilly & Company. Dr Pascual Sanchez-Juan is 
currently employed by Research Foundation for Neurological Diseases Fundacion 
CIEN and has received payments from Lilly for consulting during the conduct of 
the study. Sarah Cotton is an employee of Adelphi Real World.Medical writing 
support under the guidance of the authors was provided by Sue Libretto, PhD, of 
Sue Libretto Publications Consultant Ltd, and Bethan Hahn, of Bethan Hahn 
Communications Ltd, on behalf of Adelphi Real World in accordance with Good 
Publication Practice (GPP3) guidelines.98Editorial support was provided by 
Rebecca Charlton, an employee of Adelphi Real World.


25. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):62-64. doi: 10.1177/13872877251325891. Epub
 2025 Mar 20.

The unsafe profile of lecanemab.

Høilund-Carlsen PF(1)(2), Werner TJ(3), Alavi A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Research, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark.
(3)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Lack of data from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Adverse Event System 
makes analyses of the risks of newly approved anti-Alzheimer's antibodies 
inadequate to determine whether such risks justify the minimal clinical benefits 
reported. A recent disproportionate analysis in the Journal of Alzheimer's 
Disease by Ge et al. is a case in point. Among serious adverse effects, it only 
addresses amyloid associated imaging abnormalities, whereas the even more 
threatening ones, brain tissue loss and therapy-related death, are not 
mentioned. We urge the FDA to prioritize monitoring of all adverse effects and 
encourage transparency from the drug manufacturers.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251325891
PMID: 40112328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


26. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):28-43. doi: 10.1177/13872877251325887. Epub
 2025 Mar 20.

A systematic review and meta-analysis on the characteristics of transcranial 
magnetic stimulation treatment protocols for patients with Alzheimer's disease.

Fuseya K(1)(2), Mimura Y(1), Nakajima S(1), Mimura M(1), Kasanuki K(2), Noda 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, St Marianna University School of Medicine, 
Kawasaki, Japan.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative 
condition causing dementia. Currently, there has been no established 
non-pharmacological treatment for cognitive decline in patients with AD. Recent 
evidence suggests that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) may 
be effective as a non-invasive treatment for improving cognitive function in 
AD.ObjectiveThis study aimed to examine the characteristics of rTMS treatment 
protocols for patients with ADMethodsWe conducted a systematic literature search 
on clinical trials on rTMS for improving cognitive decline in patients with AD, 
using the PubMed, PsycINFO, and Scopus databases and performed a meta-analysis 
according to the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and 
Meta-Analyses) guidelines. To clarify which cognitive domains in AD are improved 
by rTMS, meta-analyses were conducted on both global cognitive function and on 
each cognitive domain including verbal memory, processing speed, and executive 
function. In addition, sub-analyses of the treatment details of rTMS parameters 
including stimulation sites, stimulation frequency, stimulation intensity, and 
with/without the neuro-navigation technique and meta-regression analyses 
adjusting for gender, education, and the number of rTMS pulses were 
performed.ResultsThe results showed significant improvements in global cognitive 
function, while no significant findings in verbal memory, processing speed and 
executive function. No significant results were found in subgroup analysis or 
meta-regression.ConclusionsTo enrich the evidence for cognitive enhancement in 
AD with rTMS, the randomized controlled trials using a unified rTMS protocol 
with a larger sample size are warranted.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251325887
PMID: 40112319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


27. Neurology. 2025 Apr 22;104(8):e213483. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213483.
Epub  2025 Mar 19.

Incidence of Amyloid-Related Imaging Abnormalities in Phase III Clinical Trials 
of Anti-Amyloid-β Immunotherapy: An Updated Meta-Analysis.

Jeong SY(1), Suh CH(2), Lim JS(3), Shim WH(2), Heo H(2), Choi Y(2), Kim HS(2), 
Kim SJ(2), Lee JH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Seongnam, South Korea.
(2)Department of Radiology and Research Institute of Radiology, Asan Medical 
Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea; and.
(3)Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) are key 
safety considerations in anti-amyloid-β (Aβ) immunotherapy. ARIA can be 
categorized into 2 types: ARIA characterized by edema and effusion (ARIA-E) or 
microhemorrhages and superficial siderosis (ARIA-H). In this study, we assessed 
the incidence of ARIA in phase 3 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of anti-Aβ 
immunotherapy and compared the incidence among different agents and APOE ε4 
carrier status.
METHODS: PubMed and Embase databases were searched for phase 3 RCTs of anti-Aβ 
immunotherapy published on or before May 23, 2024. The inclusion criteria were 
phase 3 trials of anti-Aβ immunotherapy for mild cognitive impairment due to 
Alzheimer disease (AD) or mild AD dementia, with sufficient data on ARIA-E/H. 
The pooled incidences of ARIA and subgroup analyses according to various agents 
and APOE ε4 carrier status were calculated. A sensitivity analysis excluding 
outliers was performed. The pooled odds ratio (OR) of ARIA-E according to the 
APOE ε4 carrier status was also calculated.
RESULTS: Nine phase 3 RCT cohorts from 8 eligible studies were identified, 
analyzing data from 6,315 patients. The pooled incidence of ARIA-E was 9.5% (95% 
CI 2.8%-27.3%), and the adjusted pooled incidence of ARIA-E was 25.5% (95% CI 
20.4%-31.8%) in the sensitivity analysis. The pooled incidence of symptomatic 
ARIA-E was 6.7% (95% CI 3.5%-12.5%) and that of severe ARIA-E was 3.5% (95% CI 
13.8%-8.4%). The pooled incidence of ARIA-H was 17.8% (95% CI 11.0%-27.5%), with 
the incidence of superficial siderosis was 9.3% (95% CI 6.1%-13.9%). The pooled 
incidence of isolated ARIA-H was 8.7% (95% CI 7.6%-10.1%). Subgroup analysis 
showed that homozygous APOE ε4 carriers had significantly higher odds of 
developing ARIA-E (OR 5.6, 95% CI 3.8-8.2, p < 0.001) than noncarriers. 
Heterozygous APOE ε4 carriers also had significantly higher odds of developing 
ARIA-E (OR 1.9, 95% CI 1.5-2.4, p < 0.001) than noncarriers.
DISCUSSION: Although limited by small sample size and cohort-level data, our 
meta-analysis shows the adjusted pooled incidence of ARIA-E was 25.5% and the 
pooled incidence of ARIA-H was 17.8% in the recent phase 3 RCTs of anti-Aβ 
immunotherapy. Homozygous APOE ε4 carriers have a 5.6-fold higher risk of 
developing ARIA-E than noncarriers.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213483
PMID: 40112274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):186-196. doi: 10.1177/13872877251326231.
Epub  2025 Mar 20.

The costs of dementia care by US state: Medical spending and the cost of unpaid 
caregiving.

Lastuka A(1), Breshock MR(1), Taylor KV(1), Dieleman JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.

BackgroundThere are 5.5 million people living with dementia in the United States 
(US), with the cost of unpaid care making up a significant portion of the care 
costs.ObjectiveSummarize variation in the cost of dementia care across the US 
and examine the association between medical spending and costs of unpaid care at 
the state level.MethodsWe estimated total cost for dementia by combining recent 
medical spending estimates from the Disease Expenditure project and unpaid care 
cost estimates from Lastuka and colleagues. Hours of unpaid care were valued as 
the hourly wage of a home health aide. We used linear regression to measure the 
association between the cost of unpaid care and medical spending. The spending 
that would have occurred if unpaid care had been provided by professional home 
health care workers was used to measure the cost of unpaid care.ResultsThe 
annual cost of care attributable to dementia in 2019 was $53,502 (95% 
uncertainty interval [UI] 46,135-60,594) per case. The contribution of unpaid 
care to total costs varied by state, ranging from 70.2% (95% UI 64.3-75.4) in 
the District of Columbia to 89.9% (95% UI 87.8-91.5) in Arizona. We found that 
higher costs of unpaid care were associated with lower medical spending on 
nursing facility care.ConclusionsThe large variation in total costs of dementia 
shows that the economic burden of dementia care is distributed unevenly 
throughout the US.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251326231
PMCID: PMC12231809
PMID: 40111940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


29. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(4):1167-1184. doi: 10.1177/13872877251323231. 
Epub 2025 Mar 20.

Cost-effectiveness of diagnosing and treating patients with early Alzheimer's 
disease with anti-amyloid treatment in a clinical setting.

Wimo A(1), Handels R(1)(2)(3), Blennow K(4)(5), Kirsebom BE(6)(7)(8)(9), Selnes 
P(9)(10), Bon J(11), Emersic A(11)(12), Gonzalez-Ortiz F(4), Gregoric Kramberger 
M(11)(13), Sköldunger A(1)(14), Speh A(11), Timón-Reina S(8), Vromen E(15)(16), 
Jelle Visser P(15)(16)(17), Winblad B(1)(18), Fladby T(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of 
Neurogeriatrics, BioClinicum J9:20, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden.
(2)Maastricht University, Alzheimer Centre Limburg, Faculty of Health, Medicine 
and Life Sciences, Maastricht, Netherlands.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, School for Mental Health and 
Neuroscience, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)Department of Neurology, University Hospital of North Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(7)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Health Sciences, The Arctic University 
of Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(8)Department of Neurology, Akershus University Hospital, Lørenskog, Norway.
(9)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(10)Department of Research, Akershus University Hospital, Lørenskog, Norway.
(11)Department of Neurology, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, Ljubljana, 
Slovenia.
(12)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(13)Medical Faculty, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(14)Department of Nursing, Biologihuset, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.
(15)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC Location Vumc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(16)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(17)Department of Psychiatry, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the 
Netherlands.
(18)Karolinska University Hospital, Theme Inflammation and Aging, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

BackgroundThe introduction of anti-amyloid treatments (AAT) for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) has put the cost-effectiveness into focus.ObjectiveEstimate the 
potential cost-effectiveness of diagnostic pathways combined with AAT for early 
AD.MethodsDiagnostic accuracy of blood-based (BBM) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
biomarkers was obtained from Norwegian memory clinics using positron emission 
tomography (PET) as reference standard. In a health-economic model, the 
cost-effectiveness of three diagnostic strategies was estimated relying either 
on BBM (p-tau 217), CSF (Aβ42/40 ratio), and BBM with CSF confirmatory testing 
and compared with standard of care (SoC) and compared with CSF-AAT. The model 
consisted of a decision tree reflecting the diagnostic process and a subsequent 
Markov cohort model starting at mild cognitive impairment due to AD. All 
strategies except SoC were combined with AAT including costs of treatment 
(assumed €5000/year), infusions and monitoring.ResultsCompared with SoC all 
three strategies (CSF-AAT, BBM-AAT, and BBM-CSF-AAT) resulted in QALY gains at 
higher costs, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 110k€, 
141k€ and 110k€ respectively. Compared with CSF-AAT both BBM-AAT and BBM-CSF-AAT 
strategies resulted in QALYs lost at lower costs, with an ICER of 27k€ and 109k€ 
respectively. Results were particularly sensitive to the price of AAT and 
possible subcutaneous administration.ConclusionsCompared with SoC all three 
strategies are potentially not cost-effective as they exceeded the Swedish 
maximum willingness to pay threshold of €94,800 per QALY gained. BBM-CSF-AAT 
versus CSF-AAT is potentially cost-effective if willing to accept its QALY loss. 
Discussions on budget impact on different payers are needed after introducing 
AAT.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251323231
PMCID: PMC12231775
PMID: 40111937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Kaj Blennow: 
present study: none. Other: Swedish Research Council (#2017-00915 and 
#2022-00732), the Swedish state under the agreement between the Swedish 
government and the County Councils, the ALF-agreement (#ALFGBG-715986 and 
#ALFGBG-965240), the Swedish Alzheimer Foundation (#AF-930351, #AF-939721, 
#AF-968270, and #AF-994551), Hjärnfonden, Sweden (#FO2017-0243 and 
#ALZ2022-0006), the Alzheimer's Association 2021 Zenith Award (ZEN-21-848495), 
the Alzheimer's Association 2022-2025 Grant (SG-23-1038904 QC), La Fondation 
Recherche Alzheimer (FRA), Paris, France, the Kirsten and Freddy Johansen 
Foundation, Copenhagen, Denmark, Familjen Rönströms Stiftelse, Stockholm, Sweden 
(all payments to institute). Consulting fees: Abbvie, AriBio, ALZpath, 
BioArctic, AC Immune, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, OnoPharma, Prothena, Roche 
diagnostics, Siemens Healthineers. Education programs: Biogen, Eisai, Roche. 
Advisory/safety board: Julius Clinical, Novartis. Stock or stock options: 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program.Tormod Fladby: Present manuscript: grant 
from Norwegian Research Council, JPND/PMI-AD (NRC 311993: payment to University 
of Oslo. Basic grant from Akerhus University Hospital. Other: Consulting fees 
from Bioarctic, NovoNordisk, Eisai. Patents: Diagnostic method (covering several 
neurodegenerative diseases including AD and PD) (Patent EU EP2245463, 
application granted 2017/ US US9625474, application granted 2017. Methods and 
compositions for monitoring phagocytic activity (Patent EP2646462), EU: 
application granted 2017, US: application granted 2014. Fluid Biomarker for 
Amyloid angiopathy (““ARIA risk/monitoring assay»):2022 DOFI 22079, 
International (PCT) Patent Application No PCT/EP2023/073607. Stock or stock 
opinions: Pre diagnostic AS. Held by invent2 TTO.Ron Handels: present 
manuscript: none. Other: Funding (paid to department) from (private-) public 
frameworks JPND, IMI, H2020 (EU), ZonMw (NL), partly via affiliation at 
Karolinska Institutet. Outside this study: consulting fees (paid to department) 
from Lilly Nederland B.V. (advisory; 2022–2023). consulting fees (paid to 
department) from institute for Medical Technology Assessment (advisory; 
2021–2023; content initiated by Biogen). Member of IPECAD steering 
(unpaid).Pieter Jelle Visser: Present manuscript: none. Other: grants from 
European Commission, IMI, AMYPAD, grant no 115952 2016-2022. from European 
Commission, IMI, RADAR-AD, grant n°806999, European Commission, IMI, EPND, grant 
no101034344, Zon-MW, n° Redefining Alzheimer's disease, grant no 733050824736, 
NCDC Grant 73305095005, Modem Grant 10510032120006, PMI 733051111, Biogen, 
Amyloid biomarker study group, research grant from Sanofi, research grant from 
Novo Nordisk. Workshop grant writing organized by Stiftung Synapsis, Alzheimer 
Forschung Schweiz AFS. All payment to university. Patent: PCT/NL2020/050216 on 
AD subtypes. Member Executive board EADC.BJørn-Eivind Kirsebom: Present 
manuscript: grants from Helse-Nord, Norwegian regional research grant 
(HNF1540-20), (payment to the University Hospital (Dept. Neurology), Other: 
Helse-Nord, Norwegian regional research grant (HNF1665-23), Helse-Nord, 
Norwegian regional research grant (HNF1569-21) (payments to To the University 
(Dept. Psychology). Consulting fees from Biogen, Eisai. Honoraria for lecture 
from Roche.Per Selnes: Present manuscript: Reserarch grant from the Norwegian 
Foundation DAM, #SDAM_FOR462171, payment to Akershus University Hospital HF. 
Other: Honoraria from Roche for lecture.Anders Wimo: Present manuscript: grant 
from the Swedish Research Council (dnr 2019-03393) (PMI-AD). Other: PREDEM 
(Vinnova), Addition (JPND), EURO-FINGER (JPND), PROMINENT (IHI), PRODEMOS 
(H2020). All payment to my department. Royalties: License holder of 
RUD-instrument (part). Member of ADÍs MSAP (unpaid).Bengt Winblad: Present 
manuscript: none. Other: Co-owner of the Resource Utilization in Dementia (RUD) 
instrument. Member of DSMBs/SABs for Alzinova, Axon Neuroscience, AlzeCure, 
Artery Therapeutics and PRInnovation.Anders Wimo is an Associate editor of this 
journal but was not involved in the peer-review process of this article nor had 
access to any information regarding its peer-review.The remaining authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


30. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(2):464-480. doi: 10.1177/13872877251329474.
Epub  2025 Mar 20.

Neuroprotective effects of SGLT2 inhibitors empagliflozin and dapagliflozin on 
Aβ(1-42)-induced neurotoxicity and neuroinflammation in cellular models of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Alami M(1)(2), Zerif E(2), Khalil A(2), Hajji N(3), Ramassamy C(4), Lacombe 
G(2), Laurent B(5), Cohen AA(6), Wikowski JM(7), Gris D(8), Bunt T(9), van 
Tellingen O(10), Hirokawa K(11), Fulop T(2), Berrougui H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Polydisciplinary Faculty, University Sultan Moulay 
Slimane, Beni Mellal, Morocco.
(2)Research Center on Aging, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University 
of Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Canada.
(3)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Immunology, School 
of Medicine, Virgen Macarena University Hospital, University of Seville, 
Seville, Spain.
(4)INRS-Centre Armand-Frappier Santé-biotechnologie, Laval, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Research 
Center on Aging, University of Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada.
(6)Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Department of Embryology, Medical University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland.
(8)Immunology Division, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Centre de 
Recherche du CHUS, University of Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Québec, Canada.
(9)Izumi Biosciences, Inc., Lexington, MA, USA.
(10)Division of Pharmacology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(11)Department of Pathology, Institute Health and Life Science, Tokyo Medical 
and Dental University, Tokyo and Nito-memory Nakanosogo Hospital, Itabashi-ku, 
Tokyo, Japan.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic brain degenerative disease that 
leads to dementia.ObjectiveThe aim of the present study is to investigate the 
neuroprotective impact of sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) 
(empagliflozin and dapagliflozin) on tau phosphorylation, oxidative stress, and 
neuroinflammation.MethodsWe used MTT (3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazolyl-2)-2, 
5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) assay, annexin-V-FITC kit, and DCFH-DA 
(dichloro-dihydro-fluorescein diacetate) to respectively evaluate the effect of 
the SGLT2i (empagliflozin and dapagliflozin) on amyloid-β (Aβ)1-42-induced 
neuronal death, apoptosis, and oxidative stress. The expression of 
NLRP3-inflammasome, phospho-Tau181, glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β), 
cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CdK5), and histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6), was 
quantified by flow cytometry. Drug distribution in the mice's brains was 
assessed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS).ResultsAβ1-42 
significantly reduced cell viability and increased apoptosis, which was reversed 
by using gliflozins. SGLT2i significantly reduced Aβ1-42-induced reactive oxygen 
species generation, downregulated NLRP3-inflammasome, and diminished tau 
pathology. Mechanistically, the last effect involved the modulation of GSK-3β 
and CdK5 protein expression. However, the tested treatments did not modify the 
Aβ1-42-stimulating effect of HDAC6. Gliflozins are substrates of drug 
transporters ATP-binding cassette sub-family B member 1 and/or ATP binding 
cassette subfamily G member 2 (ABCB1 and ABCG2), and Elacridar significantly 
enhances their brain distribution.ConclusionsSGLT2i empagliflozin and 
dapagliflozin exhibited neuroprotective actions against human Aβ1-42-induced 
neurotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251329474
PMID: 40111935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


31. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):302-316. doi: 10.1177/13872877251326879.
Epub  2025 Mar 20.

Lipopolysaccharides from Porphyromonas gingivalis indirectly induce neuronal 
GSK3β-dependent synaptic defects and cause cognitive decline in a 
low-amyloid-β-concentration environment in Alzheimer's disease.

Gui S(1), Zeng F(2), Wu Z(3)(4), Nonaka S(5), Sano T(3), Ni J(6), Nakanishi 
H(5), Moriyama M(1), Kanematsu T(3).

Author information:
(1)Section of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Division of Maxillofacial 
Diagnostic and Surgical Sciences, Faculty of Dental Science, Kyushu University, 
Fukuoka, Japan.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Immunomodulation for Neurological Diseases, 
Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shenzhen, China.
(3)Department of Aging Science and Pharmacology, Faculty of Dental Sciences, 
Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(4)OBT Research Center, Faculty of Dental Science, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, 
Japan.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's University, 
Hiroshima, Japan.
(6)Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Biotherapy, School of Life Science, 
Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, China.

BackgroundLipopolysaccharides from Porphyromonas gingivalis (P.gLPS) are 
involved in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the effect of 
P.gLPS on synaptic defects remains unclear.ObjectiveIn this study, we tested our 
hypothesis that P.gLPS induces synaptic defects in a low-amyloid-beta 
(Aβ)-concentration environment.MethodsMG6 microglia or N2a neurons was treated 
with P.gLPS (0.1 μg/mL), soluble Aβ42 (0.1 μM) or AL (combined P.gLPS and 
soluble Aβ42 at 0.1 μM).ResultsIn cultured MG6 microglia, increased the mRNA 
expression of TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 and the TNF-α release in parallel with 
increased NF-κB activation. In cultured N2a neurons, treatment with Aβ42, 
P.gLPS, and AL did not affect the mRNA expression of synapsin1 (SYN1) or 
post-synaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95). However, the treatment with 
conditioned medium from AL-exposed MG6 microglia (AL-MCM) significantly reduced 
the mRNA and protein expression of SYN1, PSD-95, and nuclear translocation of 
repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) but significantly 
increased the mRNA expression of TNF receptor type I (at 48 h) and glycogen 
synthase kinase (GSK)3β (at 24 h). TWS119 pretreatment (5 μM), a GSK3β specific 
inhibitor, significantly reversed the AL-MCM-induced reduction in the mRNA 
expression of SYN1 and PSD-95 and nuclear translocation of REST in cultured N2a 
neurons. In APPNL-F/NL-F mice, the immunofluorescence intensity of SYN1 and 
PSD-95 in cortical neurons was positively correlated with the index of the 
memory test but negatively correlated with that of TNF-α-positive 
microglia.ConclusionsThese observations demonstrate that P.gLPS induces neuronal 
GSK3β-dependent synaptic defects in a low-Aβ concentration environment via 
microglial activation.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251326879
PMCID: PMC12231870
PMID: 40111934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):268-279. doi: 10.1177/13872877251326294.
Epub  2025 Mar 20.

Altered face perception in amnestic mild cognitive impairment: Evidence from 
representational similarity analysis of event-related potential.

Zhen Y(1), Gao L(2), Chen J(2), Gu L(2), Zhang Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Precision Diagnosis and Treatment of Depression, 
Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute of Brain Science, Shenzhen Institute of Advanced 
Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Zhongda Hospital, Research Institution of 
Neuropsychiatry, School of Medicine, Southeast University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 
China.

BackgroundStructural changes in medial temporal lobes including the fusiform 
gyrus, a critical area in face recognition, precede the progression of amnestic 
mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, how the 
neural correlates of face processing altered in aMCI, as well as their 
association with cognitive impairments, remain unclear.ObjectiveUsing 
electroencephalogram (EEG), we explored the electrophysiological markers of 
face-specific visual processing alterations in aMCI and examined their 
relationship with cognitive deficits.MethodsWe recruited participants with aMCI 
(n = 32) and healthy controls (HC, n = 41) and used a passive viewing task to 
measure the event-related potential (ERP) in response to faces and non-face 
objects. To compare face processing in aMCI patients and HCs, we adopted mass 
univariate analysis and representational similarity analysis (RSA) to explore 
aMCI-related alterations in ERPs.ResultsWe found that face inversion effect 
(FIE) in P1 amplitudes was absent in aMCI patients. Also, compared to HCs, aMCI 
patients exhibited a lack of right hemisphere advantage in N170 in response to 
faces. Furthermore, representation similarity analysis of ERP in 
posterior-temporal regions revealed that aMCI patients represent face and 
non-face objects distinctively from HCs in the early processing stage. 
Additionally, the FIE in P1 amplitude positively correlated to aMCI patients' 
visuospatial functions.ConclusionsThese findings showed aMCI-related changes in 
the early perceptual processing of faces and highlights the potential of the FIE 
in P1 amplitude and ERP patterns over occipital-temporal regions as 
electrophysiological markers for aMCI and AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251326294
PMID: 40111918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Brain. 2025 Aug 1;148(8):2714-2729. doi: 10.1093/brain/awaf106.

Novel modelling approaches to elucidate the genetic architecture of resilience 
to Alzheimer's disease.

Phillips JM(1)(2), Dumitrescu LC(1)(3), Archer DB(1)(3), Regelson AN(1), 
Mukherjee S(4), Lee ML(4), Choi SE(4), Scollard P(4), Trittschuh EH(5)(6), 
Kukull WA(7), Biber S(7), Mez J(8), Mahoney ER(1), Clifton M(1), Libby JB(1), 
Walters S(1), Bush WS(9), Engelman CD(10)(11), Lu Q(11)(12)(13), Fardo 
DW(14)(15), Widaman KF(16), Buckley RF(17)(18)(19), Mormino EC(20), Sanders 
RE(4), Clark LR(11)(21), Gifford KA(1), Vardarajan B(22)(23)(24), Cuccaro 
ML(25)(26), Pericak-Vance MA(25), Farrer LA(8)(27)(28), Wang LS(29), 
Schellenberg GD(29), Haines JL(9), Jefferson AL(1), Johnson SC(20), Albert 
MS(30), Keene CD(31), Saykin AJ(32)(33)(34), Risacher SL(32)(33)(34), Larson 
EB(4)(35), Sperling RA(17)(18), Mayeux R(22)(23), Goate AM(36)(37), Renton 
AE(36)(37), Marcora E(36)(37), Fulton-Howard B(36)(37), Patel T(36)(37), Bennett 
DA(38), Schneider JA(38), Barnes LL(38), Cruchaga C(39), Hassenstab J(40), 
Belloy ME(40), Andrews SJ(41), Resnick SM(42), Bilgel M(42), An Y(42), 
Beason-Held LL(42), Walker KA(42), Duggan MR(42), Klinedinst BS(4), Crane PK(4), 
Hohman TJ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Memory and Alzheimer's Center, Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center, Nashville, TN 37232, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, 
Nashville, TN 37232, USA.
(3)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, TN 37232, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Behavior Sciences, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
(6)VA Puget Sound Health Care System, Geriatric Research Education and Clinical 
Center, Seattle, WA 98108, USA.
(7)National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center, Department of Epidemiology, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA 02118, USA.
(9)Cleveland Institute for Computational Biology, Department of Population & 
Quantitative Health Sciences, Case Western Reserve University School of 
Medicine, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA.
(10)Department of Population Health Sciences, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53726, USA.
(11)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53726, USA.
(12)Department of Statistics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 
53706, USA.
(13)Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53706, USA.
(14)Department of Biostatistics, College of Public Health, University of 
Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40536, USA.
(15)Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40536, 
USA.
(16)Graduate School of Education, University of California at Riverside, 
Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
(17)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(18)Center of Alzheimer's Research and Treatment, Department of Neurology, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(19)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, VIC 3010, Australia.
(20)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(21)Geriatric Research and Education Center, William S. Middleton Memorial 
Veteran's Hospital, Madison, WI 53705, USA.
(22)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(23)The Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and The Aging Brain, 
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(24)The Institute of Genomic Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center and 
The New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(25)John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics, University of Miami School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL 33136, USA.
(26)Dr John T. Macdonald Foundation, Department of Human Genetics, University of 
Miami, Miami, FL 33136, USA.
(27)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02118, USA.
(28)Department of Medicine (Biomedical Genetics), Boston University School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA 02118, USA.
(29)Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(30)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
(31)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
(32)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(33)Indiana Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(34)Stark Neurosciences Research Institute, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(35)Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute, Seattle, WA 98101, 
USA.
(36)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Friedman Brain Institute, 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.
(37)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.
(38)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
60612, USA.
(39)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St 
Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(40)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO 63110, USA.
(41)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of California, 
San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.
(42)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, NIH, 
Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

Up to 30% of older adults meet pathological criteria for a diagnosis of 
Alzheimer's disease at autopsy yet never show signs of cognitive impairment. 
Recent work has highlighted genetic drivers of this resilience, or 
better-than-expected cognitive performance given a level of neuropathology, that 
allow the aged brain to protect itself from the downstream consequences of 
amyloid and tau deposition. However, models of resilience have been constrained 
by reliance on measures of neuropathology, substantially limiting the number of 
participants available for analysis. We sought to determine whether new 
approaches using APOE allele status, age and other demographic variables as a 
proxy for neuropathology could still effectively quantify resilience and uncover 
novel genetic drivers associated with better-than-expected cognitive performance 
while vastly expanding sample size and statistical power. Leveraging 20 513 
participants from eight well-characterized cohort studies of ageing, we 
determined the effects of genetic variants on resilience metrics using 
mixed-effects regressions. The outcome of interest was residual cognitive 
resilience, quantified from residuals in three cognitive domains (memory, 
executive function and language) and built within two frameworks: 'silver' 
models, which obviate the requirement for neuropathological data (n = 17 241), 
and 'gold' models, which include post-mortem neuropathological assessments (n = 
3272). We then performed cross-ancestry genome-wide association studies 
(European ancestry, n = 18 269; African ancestry, n = 2244), gene- and 
pathway-based tests and genetic correlation analyses. All analyses were 
conducted across all participants and repeated when restricted to those with 
unimpaired cognition at baseline. Despite different modelling approaches, the 
silver and gold phenotypes were highly correlated (R = 0.77-0.88) and displayed 
comparable performance in quantifying better- or worse-than-expected cognition, 
enabling silver-gold meta-analyses. Genetic correlation analyses highlighted 
associations of resilience with multiple neuropsychiatric and cardiovascular 
traits [false discovery rate-corrected P (PFDR) values < 5.0 × 10-2]. In 
pathway-level tests, we observed three significant associations with resilience: 
metabolism of amino acids and derivatives (PFDR = 4.1 × 10-2), negative 
regulation of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) production (PFDR = 1.9 × 
10-2) and severe acute respiratory syndrome (PFDR = 3.9 × 10-4). Finally, in 
single-variant analyses, we identified a locus on chromosome 17 approaching 
genome-wide significance among cognitively unimpaired participants (index single 
nucleotide polymorphism: rs757022, minor allele frequency = 0.18, β=0.08, P = 
1.1 × 10-7). The top variant at this locus (rs757022) was significantly 
associated with expression of numerous ATP-binding cassette genes in brain. 
Overall, through validating a novel modelling approach, we demonstrate the 
utility of silver models of resilience to increase statistical power and 
participant diversity.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact 
reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other 
permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions 
link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awaf106
PMCID: PMC12295682
PMID: 40111762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: T.J.H. sits on the scientific advisory board for 
Vivid Genomics. The remaining authors report no competing interests.


34. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2025;1472:245-260. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-79146-8_15.

Periodontal Treatment to Improve General Health and Manage Systemic Diseases.

Zeng Y(1), Lin D(1), Chen A(1), Ning Y(2), Li X(3).

Author information:
(1)Guanghua School of Stomatology & Hospital of Stomatology & Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Stomatology, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, 
Guangdong, China.
(2)Guanghua School of Stomatology & Hospital of Stomatology & Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Stomatology, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, 
Guangdong, China. ningyang@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(3)Guanghua School of Stomatology & Hospital of Stomatology & Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Stomatology, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, 
Guangdong, China. lixiaolan@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

Periodontitis is increasingly recognized for its role in overall health and its 
associations with systemic conditions. Shared etiological factors, including 
microbiological, immunological, genetic, and environmental influences, have 
prompted interest in the potential impact of periodontal therapy on broader 
health outcomes. The oral microbiome plays a key role in the pathogenesis of 
periodontitis, with microbial imbalances (dysbiosis) contributing to 
inflammation and systemic disease progression. Additionally, immune responses to 
periodontal infection, such as chronic inflammation and dysregulated immune 
activity, are central to linking periodontitis with conditions like diabetes, 
cardiovascular disease, and autoimmune disorders. This chapter explores the 
connections between periodontal treatment and systemic diseases, such as 
diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney disease, 
Alzheimer's disease, digestive disorders, and respiratory disease. It also 
reviews the current research on the mechanisms, including microbial and immune 
factors, that underlie these associations. By emphasizing the role of 
periodontal health, the oral microbiome, and immune regulation in disease 
prevention and management, this chapter underscores the importance of integrated 
healthcare approaches to improve patient outcomes.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-031-79146-8_15
PMID: 40111696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2025;1472:121-132. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-79146-8_8.

Interaction of the Systemic Inflammatory State, Inflammatory Mediators, and the 
Oral Microbiome.

Mattos MCO(1), Vivacqua A(1), Carneiro VMA(1), Grisi DC(1), Guimarães MDCM(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Brasília, Brasília, Brazil.

Humans are biological units that host numerous microbial symbionts and their 
genomes, which together form a superorganism or holobiont. Changes in the 
balance of the oral ecosystem can have consequences for both general and oral 
health, such as cavities, gingivitis, and periodontitis. Periodontitis is 
initiated by a synergistic and dysbiotic microbial community that causes local 
inflammation and destruction of the tooth's supporting tissues, potentially 
leading to systemic inflammation. This inflammation caused by periodontal 
disease has been associated with various systemic alterations, and the immune 
system is largely responsible for the body's exacerbated response, which can 
induce and exacerbate chronic conditions. Studies indicate that subgingival 
microorganisms found in periodontitis reach the bloodstream and are distributed 
throughout the body and, therefore, can be found in distant tissues and organs. 
Among all diseases associated with periodontal disease, diabetes mellitus 
presents the strongest and most elucidated link, and its bidirectional 
relationship has already been demonstrated. Chronic hyperglycemia favors the 
worsening of periodontal parameters, while the aggravation of periodontal 
parameters can promote an increase in glycemic indexes. Other systemic diseases 
have been related to periodontitis, such as Alzheimer's, chronic kidney disease, 
atherosclerosis, and respiratory diseases. The importance of periodontal control 
may suggest a reduction in the chances of developing chronic inflammatory 
diseases because these two alterations often share inflammatory pathways and, 
for this reason, may influence each other.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-031-79146-8_8
PMID: 40111689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Neurol Sci. 2025 Jul;46(7):2925-2950. doi: 10.1007/s10072-025-08073-2. Epub
2025  Mar 20.

Vaccines for Alzheimer's disease: a brief scoping review.

Serag I(1), Abouzid M(2)(3), Moawad MHED(4)(5), Jaradat JH(6), Hendawy M(7), 
Hendi NI(8), Alkhawaldeh IM(6), Abdullah JA(9), Elsakka MM(10), Muneer MA(11), 
Elnagar MA(12), Fakher MA(13), Elkenani AJ(1), Abbas A(14).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(2)Department of Physical Pharmacy and Pharmacokinetics, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Rokietnicka 3 St., 60-806, Poznan, 
Poland. Mmahmoud@ump.edu.pl.
(3)Doctoral School, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, 60-812, Poznan, 
Poland. Mmahmoud@ump.edu.pl.
(4)Alexandria Main University Hospital, Alexandria, Egypt.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, Suez Canal University, Ismailia, Egypt.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, Mutah University, Al-Karak, Jordan.
(7)Faculty of Pharmacy, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(8)Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(9)Faculty of Medicine, New Giza University, Giza, Egypt.
(10)Faculty of Pharmacy, Damanhour University, Damanhour, Egypt.
(11)Allama Iqbal Medical College, Lahore, Pakistan.
(12)Faculty of Pharmacy, MTI University, Cairo, Egypt.
(13)Faculty of Pharmacy, Tanta University, Tanta, Egypt.
(14)Faculty of Medicine, Al-Azhar University, Damietta, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder and the 
most common cause of dementia among older adults. Existing treatments-such as 
cholinesterase inhibitors, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, and 
monoclonal antibodies targeting amyloid beta-can improve functional and 
neuropsychiatric outcomes but fail to prevent disease onset, halt progression, 
or adequately reduce amyloid-beta burden. Consequently, research efforts have 
shifted to primary prevention through immunization, although the efficacy of 
these strategies remains uncertain. This review explores the efficacy, safety, 
and adverse events of current immunotherapies for AD and discusses future 
research and clinical implications.
METHODS: A scoping review was conducted following the Preferred Reporting Items 
for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-SR) 
checklist. A systematic search was carried out using PubMed, Scopus, and Web of 
Science.
RESULTS: A total of 145 studies were included. Preclinical research often 
employed transgenic mouse models to investigate AD pathology and vaccine 
benefits, while Phase I and II clinical trials centered on safety and 
preliminary efficacy in humans. Most studies were conducted in the USA, China, 
and Japan, highlighting these countries' strong clinical trial infrastructure. 
Vaccination frequently reduced amyloid-beta or tau pathology in preclinical 
settings, although cognitive outcomes were inconsistent. Clinical trials 
primarily focused on safety and immune response, with newer vaccines such as 
ABvac40 demonstrating encouraging results and minimal adverse events.
CONCLUSION: Although AD vaccines show promise in preclinical settings, longer 
and more comprehensive clinical trials are necessary to determine their 
long-term efficacy and safety. Standardized protocols and efforts to reduce 
regional disparities in research would facilitate better comparability and 
generalizability of findings, thereby guiding the future development of 
effective immunotherapies for Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-025-08073-2
PMID: 40111670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. 
Ethical statement and IRB: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors have 
no conflicts of interest to declare. Informed consent: None.


37. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 Mar 20;40(4):155. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01579-w.

Protective mechanism of apigenin in proton pump inhibitor-associated progressive 
cognitive impairment in adult zebrafish via targeting GSK-3β pathway.

Bhratee A(1), Chatterjee D(1), Kaur R(1), Singh S(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, 142001, Punjab, India.
(2)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, 142001, Punjab, India. shamshersingh@isfcp.org.

Cognitive impairment is characterized by memory loss and difficulty in focusing, 
remembering, adhering to directions, and solving problems; commonly seen in an 
elderly population. Apigenin (APG) (4', 5, 7-trihydroxyflavone) is a flavonoid 
with several positive health benefits, including chemoprevention, antioxidant 
and can suppress inflammatory responses by inhibiting TNF-α and IL-1β levels. In 
this experimental study, we observed the possible neuroprotective effects of APG 
in the zebrafish model exposed to Lansoprazole (LPZ), a proton pump inhibitor 
known to induce cognitive impairment through hyperactivation of GSK-3β pathway. 
This experiment involves 12 adult zebrafish per group, where one group received 
LPZ (100 mg) as a toxin for 7 days and APG (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg) as treatment, 
while DPZ (5 mg/kg) served as a standard comparison over the same period. 
Neurobehavioral tests such as T-Maze, Novel Tank Test (NTT), and Novel Object 
Recognition (NOR) were performed. Several biochemical assessments were also 
performed to evaluate the level of lipid peroxidation (LPO), glutathione (GSH), 
nitrite (NO), acetylcholinesterase activity (AChEs), catalase activity, 
neurotransmitters (GABA and glutamate), neuroinflammatory markers (IL-1β, TNF-α, 
and IL-10), and histopathological analysis. The results showed that apigenin 
enhanced memory function, improved neurotransmitter balance, decreased oxidative 
stress markers, regulated the production of proinflammatory cytokines, and 
inhibited GSK-3β activity. Additionally, the co-administration of a GSK-3β 
inhibitor further promoted neuroprotection and cognitive enhancement facilitated 
by apigenin, highlighting the importance of the GSK-3β signaling pathway. These 
findings highlight the potential of apigenin as a natural compound for 
mitigating cognitive dysfunction. However, this study should also include 
long-term toxicity assessments and deeper molecular analysis to elucidate 
Apigenin's mechanism of action fully. Future research should address these gaps 
to validate its therapeutic potential.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01579-w
PMID: 40111567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent for publication: All 
contributing authors gave their consent for publication. Competing interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: Study protocols 
and animal care were approved by Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBSC) rules 
(approved numbers ISFCP/IBSC/M3/2022/24). Consent to participate: Not 
applicable.


38. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70083. doi: 10.1002/alz.70083.

Rethinking biological biomarkers to track treatment efficacy in Alzheimer's 
disease: Focus on brain connectivity.

Pini L(1)(2), Imbimbo BP(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Padova, Padova, Italy.
(2)Padova Neuroscience Center, University of Padova, Padova, Italy.
(3)Department of Research and Development, Chiesi Farmaceutici, Parma, Italy.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70083
PMCID: PMC11923565
PMID: 40110667

Conflict of interest statement: Lorenzo Pini reported a patent pending (Italian 
number 102022000015360 and PCT IB2023/057357) for a method using structural 
disconnections for predicting clinical outcomes. Bruno P. Imbimbo is an employee 
of Chiesi Farmaceutici. He is listed among the inventors of a number of Chiesi 
Farmaceutici's patents of anti‐Alzheimer's drugs. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information.


39. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70036. doi: 10.1002/alz.70036.

Predicting amyloid beta accumulation in cognitively unimpaired older adults: 
Cognitive assessments provide no additional utility beyond demographic and 
genetic factors.

Liu S(1)(2), Maruff P(2)(3), Saint-Jalmes M(1)(2), Bourgeat P(4), Masters CL(2), 
Goudey B(1)(2)(5); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, and the 
Australian Imaging Biomarkers and Lifestyle Flagship Study of Ageing.

Author information:
(1)ARC Training Centre in Cognitive Computing for Medical Technologies, 
University of Melbourne, Carlton, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(3)CogState Ltd, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Australian eHealth Research Centre, Dutton Park, Queensland, Australia.
(5)Australia BioCommon, University of Melbourne, North Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Integrating non-invasive measures to estimate abnormal amyloid beta 
accumulation (Aβ+) is key to developing a screening tool for preclinical 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). The predictive capability of standard 
neuropsychological tests in estimating Aβ+ has not been quantified.
METHODS: We constructed machine learning models using six cognitive measurements 
alongside demographic and genetic risk factors to predict Aβ status. Data were 
drawn from three cohorts: Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer's 
Disease (A4), Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), and Australian 
Imaging, Biomarker & Lifestyle (AIBL) study. Internal validation was conducted 
within A4 with external validations in ADNI and AIBL to assess model 
generalizability.
RESULTS: The highest area under the curve (AUC) for predicting Aβ+ was observed 
with demographic, genetic, and cognitive variables in A4 (median AUC = 0.745), 
but this was not significantly different from models without cognitive 
variables. External validation showed no improvement in ADNI and a slight 
decrease in AIBL.
DISCUSSION: Standard neuropsychological tests do not significantly enhance Aβ+ 
prediction in cognitively unimpaired adults beyond demographic and genetic 
information.
HIGHLIGHTS: Standard neuropsychological tests do not significantly improve the 
prediction of amyloid beta positivity (Aβ+) in cognitively unimpaired older 
adults beyond demographic and genetic information alone. Across three 
well-characterized cohorts, machine learning models incorporating cognitive 
measures failed to significantly improve Aβ+ prediction, indicating the limited 
relationship between cognitive performance on these tests and the risk of 
pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease (AD). These findings challenge assumptions 
about cognitive symptoms preceding Aβ+ screening and emphasize the need for 
developing more sensitive cognitive tests for early AD detection.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70036
PMCID: PMC11923568
PMID: 40110649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Paul Maruff is a full‐time employee of Cogstate 
Ltd, which supported the data collection of this work. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information.


40. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70040. doi: 10.1002/alz.70040.

Exploratory analysis of the proteomic profile in plasma in adults with Down 
syndrome in the context of Alzheimer's disease.

Wagemann O(1)(2), Nübling G(1), Martínez-Murcia FJ(3), Wlasich E(1), Loosli 
SV(1)(4), Sandkühler K(1), Stockbauer A(1)(2), Prix C(1), Katzdobler S(1)(2), 
Petrera A(5), Hauck SM(5), Fortea J(6)(7)(8), Romero-Zaliz R(3)(9), Jiménez-Mesa 
C(3), Górriz Sáez JM(3), Höglinger G(1)(2)(10), Levin J(1)(2)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Ludwig-Maximilians-University 
(LMU) Munich, Munich, Germany.
(2)German Center for Neurodegenerative Disease (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(3)Department of Signal Theory, Telematics and Communications, Andalusian 
Institute in Data Science and Computational Intelligence (DaSCI) at University 
of Granada, Granada, Spain.
(4)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Metabolomics and Proteomics Core, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research 
Center for Environmental Health (GmbH), Neuherberg, Germany.
(6)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau - Biomedical 
Research Institute Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas, 
CIBERNED, Madrid, Spain.
(8)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana Síndrome de Down, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(9)Information and Communication Technologies Research Centre (CITIC-UGR), 
University of Calle Periodista Rafael Gómez Montero, Granada, Spain.
(10)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Adults with Down syndrome (DS) show increased risk for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) due to the triplication of chromosome 21 encoding the amyloid 
precursor protein gene. Further, this triplication possibly contributes to 
dysregulation of the immune system, furthering AD pathophysiology.
METHODS: Using Olink Explore 3072, we measured ∼3000 proteins in plasma from 73 
adults with DS and 15 euploid, healthy controls (HC). Analyses for 
differentially expressed proteins (DEP) were carried out, and pathway and 
protein network enrichment using Gene Ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and 
Genomes (KEGG), and STRING database was investigated. Within DS, the LASSO 
(least absolute shrinkage and selection operator) feature selection was applied.
RESULTS: We identified 253 DEP between DS and HC and 142 DEP between symptomatic 
and asymptomatic DS. Several pathways regarding inflammatory and 
neurodevelopmental processes were dysregulated in both analyses. LASSO feature 
selection within DS returned 15 proteins as potential blood markers.
DISCUSSION: This exploratory proteomic analysis found potential new blood 
biomarkers for diagnosing DS-AD in need of further investigation.
HIGHLIGHTS: Inflammatory pathways are dysregulated in symptomatic versus 
asymptomatic DS. NFL and GFAP are confirmed as powerful biomarkers in DS with 
clinical and/or cognitive decline. Further circulating proteins were identified 
as potential blood biomarkers for symptomatic DS.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70040
PMCID: PMC11923571
PMID: 40110647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.F. reports receiving personal fees for service 
on the advisory boards, adjudication committees or speaker honoraria from AC 
Immune, Adamed, Alzheon, Biogen, Eisai, Esteve, Fujirebio, Ionis, Laboratorios 
Carnot, Life Molecular Imaging, Lilly, Lundbeck, Perha, Roche and outside the 
submitted work as well as holding a patent for markers of synaptopathy in 
neurodegenerative disease (licensed to Adx, EPI8382175.0). G.H. serves as a 
consultant for Abbvie, Alzprotect, Amylyx, Aprinoia, Asceneuron, Bayer, Bial, 
Biogen, Biohaven, Epidarex, Ferrer, Kyowa Kirin, Lundbeck, Novartis, Retrotope, 
Roche, Sanofi, Servier, Takeda, Teva, UCB; received honoraria for scientific 
presentations from Abbvie, Bayer, Bial, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Esteve, 
Kyowa Kirin, Pfizer, Roche, Teva, UCB, Zambon; holds patents (US 10,918,628 B2; 
EP 17 787 904.6‐1109/3 525 788); received publication royalties from Academic 
Press, Kohlhammer, and Thieme. J.L. reports speaker fees from Bayer Vital, 
Biogen, EISAI, TEVA, Zambon, Esteve, Merck and Roche, consulting fees from Axon 
Neuroscience, EISAI, and Biogen, author fees from Thieme medical publishers and 
W. Kohlhammer GmbH medical publishers and is inventor in a patent “Oral 
Phenylbutyrate for Treatment of Human 4‐Repeat Tauopathies” (PCT/EP2024/053388) 
filed by LMU Munich. In addition, he reports compensation for serving as chief 
medical officer for MODAG GmbH, is beneficiary of the phantom share program of 
MODAG GmbH and is inventor in a patent “Pharmaceutical Composition and Methods 
of Use” (EP 22 159 408.8) filed by MODAG GmbH, all activities outside the 
submitted work. J.M.G., S.M.H., S.K., C.J.M., G.N., S.V.L., F.J.M.M., A.P., 
C.P., R.R.Z., A.S., K.S., E.W., and O.W. report no conflict of interest. Author 
disclosures are available in the supporting information.


41. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e14619. doi: 10.1002/alz.14619.

Blood biomarkers differentiate AD-related versus non-AD-related cognitive 
deficits.

Sewell KR(1)(2), Oberlin LE(1)(3), Karikari TK(4), Olvera-Rojas M(5), Wan L(1), 
Morris JK(6)(7), Kueck PJ(6)(7), Zeng X(4), Huang H(1), Grove G(4), Chen Y(8), 
Lafferty TK(4), Sehrawat A(4), Kamboh MI(9), Marsland AL(4), Kramer 
AF(10)(11)(12), McAuley E(11)(13), Burns JM(7), Hillman CH(10)(14), Vidoni 
ED(7), Kang C(4)(15), Erickson KI(1).

Author information:
(1)AdventHealth Research Institute, Neuroscience, Orlando, Florida, USA.
(2)Centre for Healthy Ageing, Health Futures Institute, Murdoch University, 
Murdoch, Western Australia, Australia.
(3)Weill Cornell Institute of Geriatric Psychiatry, Weill Cornell Medicine, 
White Plains, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(5)Department of Physical Education and Sports, Faculty of Sport Sciences, Sport 
and Health University Research Institute (iMUDS), University of Granada, 
Granada, Spain.
(6)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Kansas, Kansas City, 
Kansas, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
Kansas, USA.
(8)Department of Chemistry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(9)Department of Human Genetics, School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(10)Department of Psychology, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(11)Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, University of 
Illinois at Urbana Champaign, Champaign, Illinois, USA.
(12)Center for Cognitive & Brain Health, Northeastern University, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(13)Department of Health and Kinesiology, University of Illinois at Urbana 
Champaign, Champaign, Illinois, USA.
(14)Department of Physical Therapy, Movement, & Rehabilitation Sciences, 
Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(15)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The utility of blood-based biomarkers for discriminating 
Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related versus non-AD-related cognitive deficits in 
preclinical populations remains poorly understood. Here, we tested the 
capability of blood markers to detect and discriminate variation in performance 
across multiple cognitive domains in a cognitively unimpaired sample.
METHODS: Participants (n = 648, aged 69.9 ± 3.8, 71% female) underwent a 
comprehensive cognitive assessment and assays for plasma-based biomarkers 
amyloid beta (Aβ)1-42/1-40 by mass spectrometry, phosphorylated tau (p-tau) 181 
and 217, p-tau217/Aβ1-42, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and 
neurofilament light (NfL).
RESULTS: Greater p-tau217 was exclusively associated with poorer episodic memory 
performance (β = -0.11, SE = 0.04, p = .003), and remained so after covarying 
for NfL. Higher NfL was non-specifically associated with poorer performance 
across a range of cognitive domains and remained so after covarying for 
p-tau217.
DISCUSSION: Blood-based biomarkers may differentiate non-AD-related versus 
AD-related cognitive deficits. This characterization will be important for early 
intervention and disease monitoring for AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: There is heterogeneity in the causes of cognitive decline in aging. 
AD-related blood biomarkers may help characterize these causes. Elevated 
p-tau217 was exclusively associated with poorer episodic memory. Elevated NfL 
was associated with poorer cognition in a broad range of domains. Blood 
biomarkers may help differentiate AD- and non-AD-related cognitive deficits.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14619
PMCID: PMC11923558
PMID: 40110626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Thomas K. Karikari, Yijun Chen, and Xuemei Zeng 
are inventors on a University of Pittsburgh patent regarding the IPMS assay for 
Aβ peptides. Thomas K. Karikari serves a consultant for Quanterix, outside the 
submitted work. All other authors have no conflicts to disclose. Author 
disclosures are available in the supporting information.


42. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e14538. doi: 10.1002/alz.14538.

Dementia in a resource-constrained sub-Saharan African setting: A comprehensive 
retrospective analysis of prevalence, risk factors, and management at the only 
neuropsychiatric facility in Northeastern Nigeria.

Wakawa IA(1)(2), Musami UB(1)(2), Kwairanga SH(3)(4), Ogualili PN(1)(5), Mahmood 
MY(1), Fugu MA(1)(2), Gimba MM(6), Allamin MM(1), Abbas ZU(1), Sunkani MK(1), 
Yaganami ZB(1), Kadau FM(1), Sani NM(1), Danmallam P(1), Nanjul L(1), Babazau 
L(4)(7), Muhammad Z(2)(4)(8), Goni BW(4)(9)(10), Machina BK(11)(12), Karch 
CM(13), Udeh-Momoh C(14)(15)(16)(17), Karikari TK(18)(19), Onyike CU(20), Maina 
MB(4)(21).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Services, Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Maiduguri, 
Borno, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Mental Health, College of Medical Sciences, University of 
Maiduguri, Maiduguri, Borno, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Human Anatomy, Faculty of Basic and Allied Medical Sciences, 
College of Medical Science, Gombe State University, Tudun Wada, Gombe, Nigeria.
(4)Biomedical Science Research and Training Centre Damaturu, Damaturu, Yobe, 
Nigeria.
(5)Geriatric Unit, Department of Medical Services, Federal Neuropsychiatric 
Hospital, Maiduguri, Borno, Nigeria.
(6)Department of Health Information, Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, 
Maiduguri, Borno, Nigeria.
(7)Department of Medical Laboratory Services, Yobe State University Teaching 
Hospital, Damaturu, Nigeria.
(8)Department of Human Physiology, College of Medical Sciences, Yobe State 
University, Damaturu, Damaturu, Yobe, Nigeria.
(9)Department of Medicine, Yobe State University Teaching Hospital, Damaturu, 
Nigeria.
(10)Department of Medicine University of Maiduguri, University of Maiduguri 
Teaching Hospital, Maiduguri, Borno, Nigeria.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, Yobe State Specialist Hospital, Damaturu, Yobe, 
Nigeria.
(12)Department of Psychiatry, Yobe State University Teaching Hospital, Damaturu, 
Nigeria.
(13)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri, USA.
(14)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Karolinska 
Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
(15)Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience (SITraN), University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(16)School of Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
North Carolina, USA.
(17)Brain and Mind Institute, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(18)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(19)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(20)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(21)Sussex Neuroscience, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex, 
Brighton, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Dementia prevalence is increasing in sub-Saharan Africa, 
potentially due to population growth and aging. Resource-constrained settings 
such as Northeastern Nigeria face challenges in dementia management.
METHODS: We assessed dementia burden and management at the Federal 
Neuropsychiatric Hospital Maiduguri, the only neuropsychiatric facility in 
Northeastern Nigeria. This retrospective analysis included patient records from 
1999 to 2023 for individuals 60 year of age and older with a dementia diagnosis.
RESULTS: Of the 1216 cases reported, Alzheimer's disease (60.5%) was the most 
common subtype, followed by vascular dementia (24.5%). Hypertension (41.6%) was 
the most frequent comorbidity. Memory loss was present in all cases, whereas 
behavioral symptoms like agitation presented in some cases. Treatments included 
cognitive enhancers (donepezil), supplements (gingko biloba), and non-drug 
therapies (psychoeducation).
DISCUSSION: The increasing burden of dementia at this sole facility highlights 
the urgent need for targeted interventions and further research to understand 
the underlying factors contributing to dementia in this population.
HIGHLIGHTS: Dementia trends and management in a neuropsychiatric facility 
serving over 26 million people in Northeastern Nigeria. Alzheimer's disease 
accounted for 60.5% of the dementia cases reported, with hypertension as the 
leading comorbidity. There is an urgent need for improved diagnostic tools and 
health care infrastructure to address dementia in resource-constrained settings. 
The findings lay the foundation for developing a dementia cohort as part of the 
Northern Nigeria Dementia Research Group.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14538
PMCID: PMC11923557
PMID: 40110607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Mahmoud Bukar Maina received funding for 
this work from the Rainwater Charitable Foundation and the Alzheimer's 
Association. All other authors declare no conflicts of interest related to the 
content of this manuscript. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting 
Information.


43. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Mar 5;17:1541287. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1541287.
 eCollection 2025.

Comparing the efficacy of physical therapy interventions in Alzheimer's disease: 
a network meta-analysis.

Wu J(1), Teng Y(2), Xie Y(2), Xing S(2), Zhi S(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Music and Dance, Henan Normal University, Xinxiang, China.
(2)School of Physical Education, Henan Normal University, Xinxiang, China.
(3)School of Environment, Henan Normal University, Xinxiang, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive and debilitating neurodegenerative 
disorder that significantly impairs cognitive function and daily living 
abilities, representing a major public health challenge. Given the 
multifactorial nature of AD, effective therapeutic interventions targeting both 
cognitive and functional decline are critical. This study aimed to conduct a 
comprehensive comparison of the therapeutic effects of music therapy, 
acupuncture therapy, game therapy, cognitive training therapy, and exercise 
therapy on AD patients through a network meta-analysis. Randomized controlled 
trials (RCTs) published up until 2024 were systematically retrieved from 
multiple databases. Data were extracted, including the first author, publication 
year, country, total sample size, mean participant age, type and duration of 
intervention, and outcome measures such as the Mini-Mental State Examination, 
Activities of Daily Living, and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive 
Subscale. Statistical analyses were performed using the RevMan 5.3 and Stata 17 
software. The analysis included 52 RCTs with a total of 3,409 participants, 
offering a strong dataset. The results indicated that game therapy produced 
statistically significant improvements in mental state and daily living 
abilities, while acupuncture therapy yielded the most pronounced improvements in 
cognitive function among AD patients. Notably, the comparative efficacy of these 
interventions suggests that game therapy may offer short-term benefits, 
particularly for mental health and functional abilities, whereas acupuncture 
therapy demonstrated superior long-term cognitive enhancements. In conclusion, 
tailored physical and cognitive interventions such as game therapy and 
acupuncture therapy may hold significant potential in optimizing treatment 
outcomes for AD patients, with implications for both clinical practice and 
future research.

Copyright © 2025 Wu, Teng, Xie, Xing and Zhi.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1541287
PMCID: PMC11919892
PMID: 40110480

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


44. Neurooncol Pract. 2024 Oct 15;12(2):281-290. doi: 10.1093/nop/npae099. 
eCollection 2025 Apr.

Perfusion MRI-based differentiation between early tumor progression and 
pseudoprogression in glioblastoma and its use in clinical practice.

van Dorth D(1), Croese RJI(2)(3), Jiang FY(4)(5), Schmitz-Abecassis B(6)(1), 
Taphoorn MJB(2)(3), Smits M(7)(8)(6), Dirven L(2)(3), van Osch MJP(6)(1), de 
Bresser J(5), Koekkoek JAF(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)C. J. Gorter MRI Center, Department of Radiology, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Neurology, Haaglanden Medical Center, Den Haag, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Radiology, HagaZiekenhuis, Den Haag, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Medical Delta, Delft, The Netherlands.
(7)Brain Tumor Center, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus MC, University Medical 
Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Early treatment effects in patients with glioblastoma are frequently 
discussed during multidisciplinary team meetings (MDTM), after which a decision 
regarding (dis)continuation of tumor-targeted treatment is made. This study 
examined whether a separate and systematic evaluation of perfusion MRI (pMRI) 
could impact such treatment decisions in the early stage.
METHODS: This retrospective observational study evaluated the diagnostic 
accuracy for detecting early tumor progression of 4 different approaches 
including conventional MRI, pMRI with Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL), and/or 
Dynamic Susceptibility Contrast (DSC) MRI, and compared those to the MDTM 
evaluation in clinical practice.
RESULTS: Sixty-five glioblastoma patients with clinical and radiological data 
until 9 months after irradiation were included. For all approaches, the 
sensitivity for detecting early true disease progression was poor to moderate 
(32%-62%). Area under the curve values were comparable (range 0.63-0.74), but 
highest for the MDTM evaluation (0.74). In the cases of inconclusive MDTM (26%), 
systematic pMRI evaluation showed a higher sensitivity compared to conventional 
MRI (respectively, 36% vs 0%), while the specificity was 100% for all MRI 
approaches. Multivariable regression analysis showed that a lower KPS score (OR 
= 0.84 [95% CI: 0.77-0.91]) and pMRI indicative of tumor progression (OR = 0.09 
[95% CI: 0.02-0.52]) were independently associated with concluding tumor 
progression at the MDTM.
CONCLUSION: MDTM assessment in daily clinical practice has a higher diagnostic 
accuracy in distinguishing early tumor progression from pseudoprogression 
compared to a separate, systematic evaluation of pMRI. Systematic evaluation of 
pMRI might be helpful if the clinical MDTM assessment is uncertain.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Society for Neuro-Oncology and the European Association of Neuro-Oncology.

DOI: 10.1093/nop/npae099
PMCID: PMC11913638
PMID: 40110054

Conflict of interest statement: The group of M.J.P.O. receives research support 
from Philips. In addition, J.B. is supported by a personal grant from Alzheimer 
Nederland (WE.03-2019-08).


45. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2025 Feb 7;8(3):831-840. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.4c00709. eCollection 2025 Mar 14.

Contilisant-Belinostat Hybrids: Polyfunctionalized Indole Derivatives as 
Multineurotarget Drugs for the Potential Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

Schäker-Hübner L(1), Toledano-Pinedo M(2), Eimermacher S(3), Krasniqi V(1)(3), 
Porro-Pérez A(2), Tan K(1), Horn G(4), Stegen P(1), Elsinghorst PW(5), Wille 
T(4), Pietsch M(3)(6), Gütschow M(1), Marco-Contelles J(2), Hansen FK(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Institute, University of Bonn, An der Immenburg 4, Bonn 
D-53121, Germany.
(2)Institute of General Organic Chemistry (CSIC), C/Juan de la Cierva 3, Madrid 
28006, Spain.
(3)Faculty of Applied Natural Sciences, TH Köln-University of Applied Sciences, 
Campus Leverkusen, Campusplatz 1, Leverkusen D-51379, Germany.
(4)Bundeswehr Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Neuherbergstraße 11, 
München D-80937, Germany.
(5)Bundeswehr Medical Academy, Neuherbergstraße 11, München D-80937, Germany.
(6)Institutes I & II of Pharmacology, Center of Pharmacology, Faculty of 
Medicine and University Hospital Cologne, University of Cologne, Gleueler Straße 
24, Cologne D-50931, Germany.

In this work, we designed, synthesized, and evaluated two types of 
multineurotargeting compounds using a pharmacophore merging strategy, aiming to 
develop potential treatments for Alzheimer's disease. We combined belinostat, an 
FDA-approved unselective histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, with the 
5-substituted indole core of contilisant, known for its antioxidant and 
neuroprotective properties as well as its potent inhibitory activity against 
monoamine oxidases (MAOs), acetylcholinesterase (AChE), and 
butyrylcholinesterase (BChE). Among these, compounds 8c (HDAC1, IC50 = 0.019 μM; 
HDAC6, IC50 = 0.040 μM; AChE, IC50 = 20.06 μM; BChE, IC50 = 17.10 μM; MAO-B, 
IC50 = 2.14 μM), and 9c (HDAC1, IC50 = 0.126 μM; HDAC6, IC50 = 0.020 μM; AChE, 
IC50 = 2.73 μM; BChE, IC50 = 4.03 μM; MAO-B, IC50 = 1.18 μM) emerged as the most 
promising candidates. These compounds warrant further investigation as potential 
treatments for Alzheimer's disease due to their unique inhibition profiles and 
favorable mode of inhibition.

© 2025 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.4c00709
PMCID: PMC11915037
PMID: 40109740

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


46. Biomed Opt Express. 2025 Feb 24;16(3):1143-1155. doi: 10.1364/BOE.549594. 
eCollection 2025 Mar 1.

Monitoring photobiomodulation of amyloid-β aggregation in 3D cultured cells 
using label-free nonlinear optical imaging.

Zhou T(1)(2), Zhang R(2), Ohulchanskyy TY(2)(3)(4), Qu J(2)(3)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Medical and Health Engineering, Changzhou University, Changzhou, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Devices and Systems of Ministry of Education 
and Guangdong Province, College of Physics and Optoelectronic Engineering, 
Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, The State University of 
New York, Buffalo, New York 14260, USA.
(4)tyo@szu.edu.cn.
(5)School of Medical Engineering and Technology, Xinjiang Medical University, 
Urumqi 830054, China.
(6)jlqu@szu.edu.cn.

The accumulation of beta-amyloid (Aβ) peptide aggregates, commonly known as 
plaques, is considered a key hallmark in the development of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Recently, low-level light therapy (LLLT), also referred to as 
photobiomodulation (PBM), has emerged as a promising treatment approach for AD. 
Previous studies have shown that PBM reduces Aβ load primarily by enhancing the 
clearance capabilities of glia cells. However, it remains unclear whether PBM 
can directly reduce the formation of Aβ plaques in neuronal cells independent of 
the glia cell effect. In this study, we employed three-dimensional (3D) cultured 
HEK 293 APPsw cells as an AD model to investigate the impact of PBM on Aβ 
aggregation. We demonstrated that label-free two-photon excited fluorescence 
(TPEF) imaging and second harmonic generation (SHG) imaging are effective tools 
for monitoring Aβ aggregation in 3D cell models. The TPEF imaging results and 
subsequent quantification revealed that PBM, particularly with low-level 
near-infrared light from an 808 nm laser (compared to 1064, 1210, and 1470 nm 
lasers), significantly reduced Aβ aggregation, specifically plaques formation, 
in the 3D cultured cells, with the effect found to be dose-dependent. Moreover, 
a comprehensive analysis of protein expression in the 3D cultured cells revealed 
that PBM induces overexpression of the LRP1 receptor, which mediates Aβ 
degradation and thus leads to the reduction of Aβ aggregation. This study 
highlights the use of label-free nonlinear optical imaging to monitor Aβ 
aggregation in AD progression and provides novel insights into the effects of 
PBM on Aβ plaque formation in AD models.

© 2025 Optica Publishing Group.

DOI: 10.1364/BOE.549594
PMCID: PMC11919351
PMID: 40109529

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


47. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2025 Jan 20;56(1):19-25. doi: 
10.12182/20250160101.

[Research Progress in the Mechanisms of Acupuncture in Regulating DNA 
Methylation].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao S(1), Pan X(1), Liu B(1), Luo L(1), Xiong X(1), Yu S(1).

Author information:
(1)（ 611137） College of Acupuncture and Massage, Chengdu University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, China.

DNA methylation is the first epigenetic modification found in humans. Abnormal 
changes in DNA methylation are closely associated with the development and 
progression of diseases. Acupuncture, an important component of traditional 
Chinese medicine, has been shown to have significant therapeutic efficacy. The 
mechanisms underlying acupuncture are complex, involving physiological and 
pathological processes of integrated interactions across multiple targets. 
However, current research mostly focuses on a single target, highlighting the 
need for a more upstream approach to the investigation of the mechanisms. 
Herein, we reviewed studies on the direct or indirect regulation of DNA 
methylation via acupuncture. We also discussed its mechanisms of action in pain, 
obesity, depression, and Alzheimer disease, in order to provide a new 
perspective on the therapeutic mechanisms of acupuncture and the role of DNA 
methylation in the field of acupuncture research. Future research should 
concentrate on the effect of acupuncture on the DNA methylation of specific 
genes, the quantification of changes in DNA methylation at different acupoints, 
the development of individualized acupuncture prescriptions, further 
investigation of the specificity of the effects at different acupoint, and the 
expansion of the research to integrate epigenetics and genomics. This will 
provide a theoretical basis for the internationalization and the promotion of 
clinical application of acupuncture.

DNA甲基化是人类发现的第一个表观遗传修饰，其异常变化与疾病的发生发展密切相关。针刺作为中国传统医学的重要组成，已证实其治疗疾病具有显著的疗效，针刺机制是整体性、多靶点互相影响的复杂生理病理过程，但当前针刺机制研究多是单靶点，提示需从更上游的层面研究机制。本文对证明针刺直接或间接调控DNA甲基化的研究进行综述，并探讨其在疼痛、肥胖、抑郁以及阿尔茨海默病等疾病中的作用机制，以期为针灸治疗疾病的机制研究以及针灸学科的DNA甲基化研究提供一个新的视角。未来研究应聚焦针刺对特定基因DNA甲基化影响，量化不同穴位DNA甲基化变化，制定个体化针刺处方，深入研究经穴效应特异性，扩大至表观遗传学与基因组学结合，为针灸国际化和临床应用推广提供理论基础。

© 2025《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright ©2025 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan 
University (Medical Sciences).

DOI: 10.12182/20250160101
PMCID: PMC11914010
PMID: 40109463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: 利益冲突　所有作者均声明不存在利益冲突


48. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70048. doi: 10.1002/alz.70048.

Tau degradation in Alzheimer's disease: Mechanisms and therapeutic 
opportunities.

Wang L(1), Sooram B(1), Kumar R(1)(2), Schedin-Weiss S(1), Tjernberg LO(1), 
Winblad B(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering & Technology, Indian Institute of 
Technology (BHU), Varanasi, India.
(3)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge, 
Sweden.

In Alzheimer's disease (AD), tau undergoes abnormal post-translational 
modifications and aggregations. Impaired intracellular degradation pathways 
further exacerbate the accumulation of pathological tau. A new strategy - 
targeted protein degradation - recently emerged as a modality in drug discovery 
where bifunctional molecules bring the target protein close to the degradation 
machinery to promote clearance. Since 2016, this strategy has been applied to 
tau pathologies and attracted broad interest in academia and the pharmaceutical 
industry. However, a systematic review of recent studies on tau degradation 
mechanisms is lacking. Here we review tau degradation mechanisms (the 
ubiquitin-proteasome system and the autophagy-lysosome pathway), their 
dysfunction in AD, and tau-targeted degraders, such as proteolysis-targeting 
chimeras and autophagy-targeting chimeras. We emphasize the need for a 
continuous exploration of tau degradation mechanisms and provide a future 
perspective for developing tau-targeted degraders, encouraging researchers 
to work on new treatment options for AD patients. HIGHLIGHTS: Post-translational 
modifications, aggregation, and mutations affect tau degradation. A vicious 
circle exists between impaired degradation pathways and tau pathologies. 
Ubiquitin plays an important role in complex degradation pathways. Tau-targeted 
degraders provide promising strategies for novel AD treatment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70048
PMCID: PMC11923393
PMID: 40109019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


49. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70041. doi: 10.1002/alz.70041.

Mediterranean vs. Western diet effects on the primate cerebral cortical 
pre-synaptic proteome: Relationships with the transcriptome and multi-system 
phenotypes.

Berson E(1)(2)(3), Frye BM(4)(5), Gajera CR(1)(6), Saarunya G(2)(3), Perna A(1), 
Phongpreecha T(1)(2)(3), Shome S(2)(3), Negrey JD(4), Aghaeepour N(3), Montine 
TJ(1), Craft S(7)(8), Register TC(4)(8), Shively CA(4)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative, and Pain Medicine, Stanford 
University, Stanford, California, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Data Science, Stanford University, Stanford, 
California, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Medical 
Center Blvd, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Emory and Henry University, Emory, Virginia, USA.
(6)AltPep Corporation, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Section on Gerontology and Geriatric 
Medicine, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Medical Center Blvd, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(8)Wake Forest Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Medical Center Blvd, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Diet quality mediates aging-related risks of cognitive decline, 
neurodegeneration, and Alzheimer's disease (AD) through poorly defined 
mechanisms.
METHODS: The effects of diet on the presynaptic proteome of the temporal cortex 
were assessed in 36 female cynomolgus macaques randomized to Mediterranean or 
Western diets for 31 months. Associations between the presynaptic proteome, 
determined by synaptometry by time-of-flight (SynTOF) mass spectrometry, 
adjacent cortex transcriptome, and multi-system phenotypes were assessed using a 
machine learning approach.
RESULTS: Six presynaptic proteins (DAT, Aβ42, calreticulin, LC3B, K48-Ubiquitin, 
SLC6A8) were elevated in the presynaptic proteome in Mediterranean diet 
consumers (p < 0.05). Transcriptomic data and multi-system phenotypes 
significantly predicted SynTOF markers. Selected SynTOF markers were correlated 
with changes in white matter volumes, hepatosteatosis, and behavioral and 
physiological measures of psychosocial stress.
DISCUSSION: These observations demonstrate that diet composition drives cortical 
presynaptic protein composition, that transcriptional profiles strongly predict 
the presynaptic proteomic profile, and that presynaptic proteins were closely 
associated with peripheral metabolism, stress responsivity, neuroanatomy, and 
socio-emotional behavior.
HIGHLIGHTS: Mediterranean and Western diets differentially altered the cortical 
presynaptic proteome, which is strongly associated with neurodegeneration and 
cognitive decline. Presynaptic proteomic markers were predicted by 
transcriptomic profiles in the adjacent cortex, and by multi-system anatomical, 
physiologic, and behavioral phenotypes. The data demonstrate that brain 
phenotypes and brain-body interactions are influenced by common dietary 
patterns, suggesting that improving diet quality may be an effective means to 
maintain brain health.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70041
PMCID: PMC11923382
PMID: 40109017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting information.


50. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e14616. doi: 10.1002/alz.14616.

HDAC11 displays neuropathological alterations and offers as a novel drug target 
for Alzheimer's disease.

Bai P(1)(2), Mondal P(3), Liu Y(2), Gomm A(3), Suen C(3), Yang L(4), Zhu B(2), 
Sun H(5), Ran C(3), Shen S(4), Tanzi RE(3), Zhang C(3), Wang C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Targeted Tracer 
Research and Development Laboratory, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, China.
(2)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Department of Radiology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Genetics and Aging Research Unit, McCance Center for Brain Health, Mass 
General Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease, Department of Neurology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Department of Anesthesia, Critical Care and Pain Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid pathology and 
neuroinflammation, leading to cognitive decline. Targeting histone 
deacetylase-11 (HDAC11) offers a novel therapeutic strategy due to its role in 
immune regulation.
METHODS: We conducted neuropathological analyses on human AD post mortem brain 
tissues and 5xFAD transgenic mice. We developed PB94, a brain-permeable 
HDAC11-selective inhibitor, and assessed its effects using live-animal imaging 
and behavioral studies.
RESULTS: HDAC11 was significantly upregulated in AD brains, correlating with 
amyloid pathology and neuroinflammatory markers. PB94 treatment reduced amyloid 
burden and neuroinflammation, improving cognitive function in 5xFAD mice.
DISCUSSION: Our findings highlight HDAC11 as a promising drug target for AD. 
PB94's ability to reduce amyloid pathology and neuroinflammation suggests its 
potential as an effective therapeutic. This study supports further exploration 
of HDAC11 inhibition as a treatment strategy for AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Histone deacetylase-11 (HDAC11) is significantly upregulated in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains and colocalizes with amyloid pathology and 
neuroinflammatory markers. Novel brain-permeable HDAC11-selective inhibitor PB94 
demonstrates promising therapeutic potential for AD treatment. PB94 treatment 
reduces amyloid burden and neuroinflammation in AD mouse models, confirmed by 
live imaging studies. HDAC11 inhibition enhances microglial phagocytosis of 
amyloid beta proteins and modulates inflammatory cytokine levels. PB94 treatment 
improves cognitive function in AD mouse models while showing favorable brain 
penetration and selectivity.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14616
PMCID: PMC11923381
PMID: 40109001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C.W., P.B., C.Z., S.S., and R.E.T. are 
co‐inventors of the HDAC11 inhibitor used in this publication. Other co‐authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare. Author disclosures are available in 
the supporting information.


51. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70026. doi: 10.1002/alz.70026.

Interactions between menopause and high-fat diet on cognition and pathology in a 
mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Abi-Ghanem C(1), Kelly RD(1), Groom EA(1), Valerian CG(1), Paul AS(1), Thrasher 
CA(1), Salinero AE(1), Batchelder MR(1), Lafrican JJ(2), Wang M(1), Smith RM(1), 
Temple S(3), Zuloaga DG(2), Zuloaga KL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience & Experimental Therapeutics, Albany Medical 
College, Albany, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology and Center for Neuroscience Research, State 
University of New York at Albany, Albany, New York, USA.
(3)Neural Stem Cell Institute, Albany, New York, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Post-menopausal women constitute about two-thirds of those with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Menopause increases dementia risk by heightening the 
likelihood of metabolic disease, a well-known risk factor for dementia. We aimed 
to determine the effects of menopause and high-fat diet (HF) on cognitive and 
pathological outcomes in an AD mouse model.
METHODS: At 3 months old, AppNL-F mice received 4-vinylcyclohexene diepoxide 
(menopause model) or vehicle and were placed on a control (10% fat) or an HF 
diet (60% fat) until 10 months old.
RESULTS: An interaction between HF diet and menopause led to impaired 
recognition memory. No effects of menopause were observed on amyloid pathology. 
However, menopause induced alterations in microglial response, white matter, and 
hippocampal neurogenesis.
DISCUSSION: This work highlights the need to model endocrine aging in animal 
models of dementia and contributes to further understanding of the interaction 
between menopause and metabolic health in the context of AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: The combination of menopause and HF diet led to early onset of 
cognitive impairment. HF diet increased amyloid pathology in the hippocampus. 
Menopause led to an increase in microglia density and a decrease in myelin in 
the corpus callosum. Menopause altered hippocampal neurogenesis in a 
diet-dependent manner.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70026
PMCID: PMC11923387
PMID: 40108996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts to report. Author 
disclosures are available in the Supporting information.


52. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70018. doi: 10.1002/alz.70018.

Relationships between hypometabolism and both β-amyloid and tau PET in 
corticobasal syndrome.

Ghirelli A(1)(2)(3), Goodrich AW(4), Stephens YC(1), Graff-Radford J(1), Ali 
F(1), Machulda MM(5), Schwarz CG(6), Senjem ML(6)(7), Agosta F(2)(3)(8), Filippi 
M(2)(3)(8), Jack CR Jr(6), Lowe VJ(6), Josephs KA(1), Whitwell JL(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(2)Neuroimaging Research Unit, Division of Neuroscience, IRCCS San Raffaele 
Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(3)Neurology Unit, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, 
USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(7)Department of Information Technology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(8)Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology causes corticobasal syndrome 
(CBS) in 21%-50% of patients. Studies have assessed hypometabolism in CBS 
according to β-amyloid (A) positron emission tomography (PET), but the 
understanding of the association of both AD-tau (T) and A with hypometabolism is 
incomplete.
METHODS: Thirty-three CBS patients and 45 controls underwent fluorodeoxyglucose 
(FDG), flortaucipir, and Pittsburgh compound-B PET and were classified as A± and 
T±. FDG-PET uptake was extracted for 12 regions-of-interest in dominant (most 
affected) and non-dominant hemispheres and compared across A/T groups.
RESULTS: A+T+ patients had greater hypometabolism in temporo-parieto-occipital 
cortices than A+T- and A-T- groups, with no differences observed between the 
A+T- and A-T- groups. FDG asymmetry was more accentuated in A+T+ patients. 
Medial temporal and basal ganglia metabolism were similar across AT groups.
DISCUSSION: Amyloid and tau positivity contribute synergistically to 
hypometabolism and asymmetry in temporo-parieto-occipital cortices in CBS, with 
AD-like patterns of hypometabolism observed only in A+T+ patients.
HIGHLIGHTS: Amyloid (A) and tau PET (T) status can be used to stratify CBS 
patients. A+T+ CBS patients show more hypometabolism in 
temporo-parieto-occipital cortices. Medial temporal metabolism (typical AD 
pattern) is similar across AT groups. Parieto-occipital cortices should be 
assessed when investigating AT pathology in CBS. Amyloid and tau positivity 
contribute synergistically to hypometabolism and asymmetry in CBS.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70018
PMCID: PMC11923383
PMID: 40108988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A. Ghirelli, A. W. Goodrich, Y. C. Stephens, F. 
Ali, M. Machulda, M. L. Senjem, V. J. Lowe, C. R. Jack Jr. have nothing to 
disclose. C. Schwarz receives fundings by the NIH. J. Graff‐Radford receives 
fundings by the NIH, DSMB for NINDS strokeNET, he is site‐investigator for 
trials sponsored by Eisai and Cognition therapeutics, he received honoraria from 
the American Academy of Neurology for development of educational courses. M. 
Filippi is editor‐in‐chief of the Journal of Neurology, associate editor of 
Human Brain Mapping, Neurological Sciences, and Radiology; received compensation 
for consulting services from Alexion, Almirall, Biogen, Merck, Novartis, Roche, 
Sanofi; speaking activities from Bayer, Biogen, Celgene, Chiesi Italia SpA, Eli 
Lilly, Genzyme, Janssen, Merck‐Serono, Neopharmed Gentili, Novartis, Novo 
Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi, Takeda, and TEVA; participation in Advisory Boards for 
Alexion, Biogen, Bristol‐Myers Squibb, Merck, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, 
Sanofi‐Aventis, Sanofi‐Genzyme, Takeda; scientific direction of educational 
events for Biogen, Merck, Roche, Celgene, Bristol‐Myers Squibb, Lilly, Novartis, 
Sanofi‐Genzyme; he receives research support from Biogen Idec, Merck‐Serono, 
Novartis, Roche, the Italian Ministry of Health, the Italian Ministry of 
University and Research, and Fondazione Italiana Sclerosi Multipla. F. Agosta is 
associate editor of NeuroImage: Clinical, has received speaker honoraria from 
Biogen Idec, Italfarmaco, Roche, Zambon and Eli Lilly, and receives or has 
received research supports from the Italian Ministry of Health, the Italian 
Ministry of University and Research, AriSLA (Fondazione Italiana di Ricerca per 
la SLA), the European Research Council, the EU Joint Programme – 
Neurodegenerative Disease Research (JPND), and Foundation Research on Alzheimer 
Disease (France). K. Josephs is associate editor of Annals of Clinical and 
Translational Neurology and serves on the editorial board of Acta 
Neuropathologica and Journal of Neurology. Author disclosures are available in 
the Supporting Information.


53. Curr Top Med Chem. 2025 Mar 18. doi: 10.2174/0115680266342624241127071044. 
Online ahead of print.

Inflecting Factors on Alzheimer's Disease Progression: The Interaction of Gut 
Microbiome, Oxidative Stress, and Nutritional Interventions.

Dagdeviren M(1)(2), Bozcal E(3).

Author information:
(1)Ege University, Faculty of Science, Department of Biology, General Biology 
Section, 35040, Bornova-İzmir/Turkiye.
(2)Ege University, Center for Drug Development and Pharmacokinetic Applications, 
35100, Bornova-İzmir/Turkiye.
(3)Istanbul University, Faculty of Science, Department of Biology, Basic and 
Industrial Microbiology Section, 34134, Fatih-Istanbul/Turkiye.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a complex neurological condition caused by various 
factors. Diet, oxidative stress, and the gut microbiota all play critical roles 
in the development of AD. Recent studies suggested a bidirectional relationship 
between the gut and the brain, emphasizing the pivotal role of the gut 
microbiome in influencing cognitive functions. For instance, dysbiosis, a 
disruption in the balance of gut microbial communities, has been linked to 
neuroinflammation and the accumulation of amyloid-beta plaques, hallmark 
features of AD. Oxidative stress, arising from an imbalance between free 
radicals and antioxidants, contributes significantly to AD pathology. The 
molecular mechanisms through which oxidative stress impacts neuronal health and 
exacerbates the cognitive decline in AD patients are also relevant. Moreover, 
nutritional interventions emerge as promising strategies to modulate these 
inflecting factors. Dietary components, such as antioxidants, omega-3 fatty 
acids, and polyphenols, exhibit neuroprotective effects, potentially mitigating 
AD progression. In contrast, the Western diet has a high potential to abet AD 
onset. Mediterranean diet and/or intermittent fasting are more valuable diets 
that may help delay the AD onset or progression. Limitations like individual 
differences affect the efficacy of nutritional interventions. As a supporting 
therapy, personalized diets should be applied according to the patients' special 
needs/microbiomes in the future. To gather current knowledge on the 
interconnected roles of the gut microbiome, oxidative stress, and nutritional 
interventions in AD is crucial. Understanding these interactions may pave the 
way for novel therapeutic approaches, as well as disputing the potential diets 
that can help improve AD patients' quality of life.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115680266342624241127071044
PMID: 40108895


54. Dialogues Clin Neurosci. 2025 Dec;27(1):1-12. doi: 
10.1080/19585969.2025.2480566. Epub 2025 Mar 19.

Exploring novel therapeutic strategies: Could psychedelic perspectives offer 
promising solutions for Alzheimer's disease comorbidities?

Davidson M(1)(2), Stanciu GD(2), Rabinowitz J(2)(3), Untu I(4)(5), Dobrin 
RP(4)(5), Tamba BI(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)University of Miami School of Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.
(2)Advanced Research and Development Center for Experimental Medicine 'Prof. 
Ostin C. Mungiu' CEMEX, 'Grigore T. Popa' University of Medicine and Pharmacy of 
Iasi, Iasi, Romania.
(3)Bar Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel.
(4)Department of Medicine III, Grigore T. Popa University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy of Iasi, Iasi, Romania.
(5)Institute of Psychiatry 'Socola', Iasi, Romania.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, Clinical Pharmacology and Algesiology, 'Grigore 
T. Popa' University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Iasi, Iasi, Romania.

The increasing prevalence of dementia within an ageing global population, 
combined with prolonged life expectancy, accentuates Alzheimer's disease (AD) as 
a multifaceted healthcare challenge. This challenge is further compounded by the 
limited therapeutic options currently available. Addressing the intricacies of 
AD management, the mitigation of comorbidities has emerged as a pivotal facet of 
treatment. Comorbid conditions, such as neurobehavioral symptoms, play a role in 
shaping the clinical course, management, and outcomes of this pathology; 
highlighting the importance of comprehensive care approaches for affected 
individuals. Exploration of psychedelic compounds in psychiatric and palliative 
care settings has recently uncovered promising therapeutic potential, enhancing 
neuroplasticity, emotional processing and connection. These effects are 
particularly relevant in the context of AD, where psychedelic therapy offers 
hope not only for mitigating core symptoms but also for addressing the array of 
comorbidities associated with this condition. The integration of this 
comprehensive method offers a chance to significantly enhance the care provided 
to those navigating the intricate landscape of AD. Therefore, the current paper 
reviews the intricate link between more frequent additional health conditions 
that may coexist with dementia, particularly in the context of AD, and explores 
the therapeutic potential of psychedelic compounds in addressing these 
concurrent conditions.

DOI: 10.1080/19585969.2025.2480566
PMCID: PMC11926901
PMID: 40108882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report there are no competing 
interests to declare.


55. Clin Nucl Med. 2025 Aug 1;50(8):806-807. doi: 10.1097/RLU.0000000000005842.
Epub  2025 Mar 20.

Both Amyloid and Tau Assessments Are Desired Before Initiating Disease-modifying 
Therapy for Alzheimer Disease: Three Real-world Cases.

Ishibashi K(1)(2), Kurihara M(2), Ihara R(2).

Author information:
(1)Diagnostic Neuroimaging Research, Research Team for Neuroimaging, Tokyo 
Metropolitan Institute for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology, Tokyo, Japan.

DOI: 10.1097/RLU.0000000000005842
PMCID: PMC12208378
PMID: 40108731

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest and sources of funding: 
This study was supported by internal funds from Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for 
Geriatrics and Gerontology. K.I., M.K., and R.I. are involved in clinical trials 
conducted by Eisai and Eli Lilly. Honoraria for lectures were paid to M.K. and 
R.I. by Eisai, and to R.I. by Eli Lilly.


56. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Apr;33(4):2083-2094. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01695-0.  Epub 2025 Mar 19.

Modulation of the cognitive impairment associated with Alzheimer's disease by 
valproic acid: possible drug repurposing.

Sorial MES(1), Abdelghany RM(2), El Sayed NSED(3).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology and Toxicology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy and 
Biotechnology, German University in Cairo-GUC, Cairo, Egypt. 
mirna.sorial@guc.edu.eg.
(2)Pharmacology and Toxicology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy and 
Biotechnology, German University in Cairo-GUC, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)Pharmacolgy and Toxicology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University, 
Giza, Egypt.

Sporadic Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
affecting the central nervous system. Its main two hallmarks are extracellular 
deposition of aggregated amyloid beta resulting in senile plaques and 
intracellular hyperphosphorylated tau proteins forming neuro-fibrillary tangles. 
As those processes are promoted by the glycogen synthase kinase-3 enzyme, GSK3 
inhibitors may be of therapeutic value in SAD. GSK3 is also inhibited by the 
action of insulin on insulin signaling. Insulin receptor desensitization in the 
brain is hypothesized to cause inhibition of insulin signaling pathway that 
ultimately causes cognitive deficits seen in SAD. In extant research, induction 
of cognitive impairment is achieved by intracerebroventricular injection of 
streptozotocin-a diabetogenic compound that causes desensitization to insulin 
receptors in the brain leading to the appearance of most of the SAD signs and 
symptoms. Valproic acid -a histone deacetylase inhibitor and anti-epileptic 
drug-has been recently studied in the management of SAD as a possible GSK3 
inhibitor. Accordingly, the aim of the present study is to explore the role of 
multiple VPA doses on the downstream effects of the insulin signaling pathway in 
ICV STZ-injected mice and suggest a possible mechanism of VPA action. ICV 
STZ-injected mice showed deficiency in short- and long-term memory as well as 
increased anxiety, as established by open field test, Modified Y-maze, Morris 
water maze, and elevated plus maze neurobehavioral tests.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01695-0
PMCID: PMC11991970
PMID: 40108007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have nothing to disclose.


57. Int Psychogeriatr. 2025 Jun;37(3):100056. doi: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100056. 
Epub 2025 Mar 18.

Cohen-mansfield agitation inventory total score as a measure of agitation and 
aggression in Alzheimer's disease: A factor analysis.

Hendrix SB(1), Sano M(2), Lyketsos C(3), Rosenberg PB(3), Porsteinsson AP(4), 
Brown BL(5), Hedges D(5), Cummings JL(6).

Author information:
(1)Pentara Corporation, Salt Lake City, UT, USA. Electronic address: 
shendrix@pentara.com.
(2)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; James J. Peters 
VA Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.
(3)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(4)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA.
(5)Brigham Young University, Provo, UT, USA.
(6)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, School of Integrated Health Sciences, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, 
NV, USA.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is often associated with agitation and 
aggression, which may impair function, impede care, and be a major source of 
stress for caregivers. The Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI) is often 
used to assess agitation and aggression. In its original, nursing-home version, 
it is a 29-item, caregiver-informed, clinician-administered 7-point scale that 
assesses the frequency of various agitation or aggressive behaviors. However, 
the instruction manual advises against the use of the total score in favor of a 
domain-based analysis. This recommendation has been followed in both clinical 
trials and practice. Because the CMAI is comprehensive and easy to administer, 
we sought to determine the validity of its total score as a single construct for 
assessing agitation and aggression in patients with AD.
METHODS: We used a previously conducted factor analysis of the CMAI scores from 
two risperidone trials in patients with dementia (N = 648), and a follow-up 
analysis of the subset of patients with psychosis of AD (N = 479), to examine, 
using vector analysis and an effect-size-versus-signal-to-noise ratio analysis, 
whether the total CMAI score could confidently be used as a global measure of 
agitation and aggression in AD.
RESULTS: Our findings suggest that the CMAI items from the dataset analyzed load 
into 4 clusters, which cover about 50 % of the total data variance. 
Surprisingly, items with the lowest signal-to-noise ratio (hitting, performing 
repetitious mannerisms, aimless pacing or wandering) had the strongest response 
to treatment (and vice versa), and belonged to different factors. The further 
observation that many items were spread among the factors, instead of primarily 
measuring a single factor or domain, suggests that there is a continuum of 
symptoms, and separating them into domains requires separating very similar 
items that measure two or more domains.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that assessing agitation and aggression via 
CMAI domains instead of the total score is likely to miss important behavioral 
signals. Using total CMAI score in clinical trials and practice, along with the 
assessment of individual items, is warranted.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.inpsyc.2025.100056
PMID: 40107930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest SBH is the CEO 
and owner of Pentara Corporation, which provides statistical consulting and 
clinical data management services to pharmaceutical companies, especially in 
neurodegenerative disease areas. PBR has received research grants from the 
National Institutes of Aging, Alzheimer's Clinical Trials Consortium, Richman 
Family Precision Medicine Center of Excellence on Alzheimer’s Disease, Eisai, 
Functional Neuromodulation, and Lilly; honoraria from Lilly, GLG, Leerink, 
Cerevel, Cerevance, Bioxcel, Sunovion, Acadia, Medalink, Novo Nordisk, Noble 
Insights, TwoLabs, Otsuka, Lundbeck, Acadia, MedaCorp, ExpertConnect, HMP 
Global, Sinaptica, Synaptogenix, Worldwide Clinical Trials, and Neurology Week. 
PBR has received grant support from National Institute on Aging included 
AGRO1054771 (CRD), AGRO1050515 (dronabinol), and AGRO1046543 (ADMET II). JLC has 
provided consultation to Acadia, Acumen, ALZpath, Annovis, Aprinoia, Artery, 
Biogen, Biohaven, BioXcel, Bristol-Myers Squib, Eisai, Fosun, GAP Foundation, 
Green Valley, Janssen, Karuna, Kinoxis, Lighthouse, Lilly, Lundbeck, LSP/eqt, 
Mangrove Therapeutics, Merck, MoCA Cognition, New Amsterdam, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Otsuka, Oxford Brain Diagnostics, Praxis, Prothena, ReMYND, Roche, 
Scottish Brain Sciences, Signant Health, Simcere, sinaptica, T-Neuro, 
TrueBinding, and Vaxxinity pharmaceutical, assessment, and investment 
companies. CKL has received grant supports from NIMH, NIA, Associated Jewish 
Federation of Baltimore, Weinberg Foundation, Functional Neuromodulation, Bright 
Focus Foundation. CKL has provided consultations to Astra-Zeneca, Glaxo-Smith 
Kline, Eisai, Novartis, Forest, Supernus, Adlyfe, Takeda, Wyeth, Lundbeck, Merz, 
Lilly, Pfizer, Genentech, Elan, NFL Players Association, NFL Benefits Office, 
Zinfandel, BMS, Abvie, Janssen, Orion, Servier, Astellas, SVB Leerink, Roche, 
Avanir, Karuna, Maplight, Axsome, GIA, GW Research Limited, Merck, EXCIVA GmbH, 
Otsuka, IntraCellular Therapies, Medesis, Karuna, BMS, and Abbvie. Dr. 
Porsteinsson reports personal fees from Acadia Pharmaceuticals, Athira, Axsome, 
Biogen, BMS, Cognitive Research Corp, Eisai, IQVIA, Lundbeck, Novartis, ONO 
Pharmaceuticals, Otsuka, WCG, WebMD, and Xenon; grants to his institution from 
Alector, Athira, Biogen, Cassava, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Genentech/Roche, Vaccinex, 
NIA, NIMH, and DOD. He is a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of Alzheon, 
Athira, and Cognition Therapeutics. MS is consulting for Eisai, NovoNordisk, 
Otsuka Lundbeck. BLB and DH reports no industry consulting or fees.


58. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;12(5):100117. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100117.  Epub 2025 Mar 18.

Association of dietary fatty acids with longitudinal change in plasma-based 
biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease.

Hoost SS(1), Honig LS(2), Kang MS(3), Bahl A(4), Lee AJ(3), Sanchez D(3), 
Reyes-Dumeyer D(3), Lantigua RA(5), Dage JL(6), Brickman AM(2), Manly JJ(2), 
Mayeux R(7), Gu Y(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, and the New York Presbyterian Hospital, 710 West 168th Street, New 
York, New York, 10032, USA.
(2)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th 
Street, New York, NY, 10032, USA; G.H. Sergievsky Center, Vagelos College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th Street, New York, 
New York, 10032, USA; Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Columbia University, and the New York Presbyterian Hospital, 710 West 
168th Street, New York, New York, 10032, USA.
(3)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th 
Street, New York, NY, 10032, USA; Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, and the New York Presbyterian 
Hospital, 710 West 168th Street, New York, New York, 10032, USA.
(4)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th 
Street, New York, NY, 10032, USA.
(5)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th 
Street, New York, NY, 10032, USA; Department of Medicine, Vagelos College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, and the New York Presbyterian 
Hospital, 630 West 168th Street, New York, New York, 10032, USA.
(6)Stark Neurosciences Research Institute, Suite 414, Indiana University School 
of Medicine, 320 West 15th Street, Indianapolis, Indiana, 46202, USA.
(7)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th 
Street, New York, NY, 10032, USA; G.H. Sergievsky Center, Vagelos College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th Street, New York, 
New York, 10032, USA; Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Columbia University, and the New York Presbyterian Hospital, 710 West 
168th Street, New York, New York, 10032, USA; Department of Epidemiology, 
Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, 722 West 168th Street, New 
York, New York, 10032, USA.
(8)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th 
Street, New York, NY, 10032, USA; G.H. Sergievsky Center, Vagelos College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th Street, New York, 
New York, 10032, USA; Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Columbia University, and the New York Presbyterian Hospital, 710 West 
168th Street, New York, New York, 10032, USA; Department of Epidemiology, 
Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, 722 West 168th Street, New 
York, New York, 10032, USA. Electronic address: yg2121@cumc.columbia.edu.

BACKGROUND: Elevated intake of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids is linked to 
a reduced risk of dementia in some prospective studies. However, few studies 
have examined the relationship between nutrient intake and plasma biomarkers of 
Alzheimer's disease.
OBJECTIVES: We explored whether omega-3, omega-6, and monounsaturated fat 
intakes were associated with changes in plasma biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease 
over time.
DESIGN: The Washington Heights-Inwood Columbia Aging Project is a prospective 
cohort study (1994-2021); the data set used here includes a mean follow-up of 
7.0 years.
SETTING: Community-based in New York City.
PARTICIPANTS: 599 dementia-free individuals at baseline who completed a 61-item 
food frequency questionnaire and had biomarkers measured in plasma from at least 
two different time points.
MEASUREMENTS: Fatty acid intake tertiles were computed from 
participant-completed 61-item Willett semi-quantitative food frequency 
questionnaires (Channing Laboratory, Cambridge, Massachusetts) obtained once at 
their baseline visit. Plasma-based biomarker assays were performed, using the 
single molecule array technology Quanterix Simoa HD-X platform, at baseline and 
follow-up visits. Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) models were used to 
evaluate the association between baseline nutrient intake tertile and changes in 
biomarkers including phospho-tau181, amyloid-beta 42/40 ratio, 
phospho-tau181/amyloid-beta42 ratio, glial fibrillary acidic protein, 
neurofilament light chain, and two biomarker patterns derived from Principal 
Component Analysis (PCA1 and PCA2), with higher scores indicating a high level 
of neurodegeneration and low level of Alzheimer's disease burden, respectively). 
Models were adjusted for age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, and calculated 
total energy intake initially, and additionally for cerebrovascular risk 
factors.
RESULTS: Higher baseline omega-3 intake tertile was associated with lesser 
decline in PCA2 (β = 0.221, p < 0.001) and amyloid-beta 42/40 ratio (β = 0.022, 
p = 0.003), and a lesser rise in phospho-tau181 (β = -0.037, p = 0.001). Higher 
omega-6 intake tertile was linked to a lesser rise in phospho-tau181 (β = 
-0.050, p < 0.001) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (β = -0.028, p = 0.002). 
Most associations persisted after adjusting for cardiovascular risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher relative baseline intake of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids 
is associated with lesser progression of blood-based biomarkers of Alzheimer's 
disease. Consuming healthy fatty acids may help prevent accumulation of 
Alzheimer's disease-related pathological changes.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100117
PMCID: PMC12094269
PMID: 40107919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of compting interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Dr. Brickman reports grants from 
NIH, during the conduct of the study; personal fees from Cedara, personal fees 
from Cogstate, personal fees from Cognito Therapeutics, personal fees from 
Cognition Therapeutics, personal fees from IQVIA, personal fees from 
International Neuropsychological Society, other from University of Illinois, 
Urbana-Champaign, other from Section editor, Alzheimer's & Dementia, outside the 
submitted work; In addition, Dr. Brickman has a patent US Patent # 9,867,566 
issued, and a patent US Patent# 20,230,298,170 pending. Dr. Dage reports 
personal fees and other from Genotix Biotechnologies Inc, personal fees and 
other from AlzPath Inc, personal fees and other from Monument Biosciences, 
personal fees from Gates Ventures, personal fees from Karuna Therapeutics, 
personal fees from Cognito, personal fees and other from AbbVie, personal fees 
and other from Eisai, personal fees and other from Prevail Therapeutics, 
personal fees from Dolby Ventures, personal fees from Alzheimer's disease drug 
discovery fund, personal fees, non-financial support and other from Eli Lilly 
and Company, personal fees from Lab Corp, outside the submitted work; In 
addition, Dr. Dage has a patent COMPOUNDS AND METHODS TARGETING HUMAN TAU 
pending, and a patent Prevention of axonal damage using antibody binding to 
amyloid beta 1–42 pending. Dr. Manly reports grants from NINNIH P30 AG059303 ROl 
AG054070 NINDS/NIH UOl NS041588; NINNIH T35 AG044303 UOl AG009740, outside the 
submitted work;. Dr. Honig reports grants and personal fees from Eisai, personal 
fees from Biogen, grants from Cognition, grants from EIP Pharma, grants from 
Acumen, grants from BMS, personal fees from New Amsterdam, personal fees from 
Prevail/ Lilly, grants from Ferrer, grants from Vaccinex, personal fees from 
Genentech/Roche, personal fees from Vigil, grants from Transposon, grants from 
GSK, grants from UCB, personal fees from Medscape, outside the submitted work;. 
All other authors have nothing to disclose.


59. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Apr 2;16(7):1388-1401. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00092. Epub 2025 Mar 19.

Development of Donor-Acceptor Architecture-Based Potential Theranostic 
Fluorescent Probes for Alzheimer's Disease.

Bajad NG(1), A GT(1), Sharma K(2), Tapadia MG(2), Kumar A(1), Krishnamurthy 
S(1), Singh SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Chemistry Research Laboratory I, Department of Pharmaceutical 
Engineering & Technology, Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu 
University), Varanasi 221005, India.
(2)Cytogenetics Laboratory, Department of Zoology, Banaras Hindu University, 
Varanasi 221005, India.

The cholinergic deficits and deposition of β-amyloid (Aβ) species are regarded 
as the key events contributing to the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Herein, a series of novel donor-acceptor architecture-type potential theranostic 
agents were designed, synthesized, and evaluated for their potential against 
cholinesterase (ChE) enzymes and detection of Aβ species, which are primary 
targets in the development of therapeutics for AD. The optimal compound/probe 18 
containing a benzothiazolium fluorophore with a bifunctional electron-donating 
N-aryl piperazine scaffold exhibited potent inhibitory activities against 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE; IC50 = 0.172 ± 0.011 μM) and butyrylcholinesterase 
(BuChE; IC50 = 1.376 ± 0.141 μM). Measurement of fluorescence properties showed 
that probe 18 exhibited emission maxima (λem) of >610 nm in dimethyl sulfoxide 
(DMSO) and >590 nm in PBS, suitable for the fluorescence imaging. In vitro 
studies demonstrated a change in fluorescence characteristics and high binding 
affinities (18; Kd = 0.731 μM) upon binding with Aβ aggregates. The affinity of 
probe 18 toward Aβ aggregates was further observed in elavGAL4 > UAS Aβ, the 
Drosophila larval brain sections, using a fluorescence imaging technique. The in 
vivo acute oral toxicity evaluation indicated a safety profile of the lead probe 
18. Moreover, in vivo behavioral studies including Y-maze and novel object 
recognition tests signified that the administration of compound 18 improved 
cognitive and spatial memory impairment at a dose of 10 and 20 mg/kg in the 
scopolamine-induced cognitive deficit model.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00092
PMID: 40107858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Neurochem Int. 2025 Jun;186:105964. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2025.105964. Epub
2025  Mar 17.

METTL3/IGF2BP2/IκBα axis participates in neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's 
disease by regulating M1/M2 polarization of microglia.

Zhu L(1), Liu C(2), Wang Y(3), Zhu X(1), Wu L(1), Chen L(4), Zhou J(5), Wang 
F(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of neurology, Jingmen Central Hospital, Jingmen Central Hospital 
affiliated to Jingchu University of Technology, Jingmen, 448000, China.
(2)Department of pharmacy, Jingmen Central Hospital, Jingmen Central Hospital 
affiliated to Jingchu University of Technology, Jingmen, 448000, China.
(3)Department of radiology, Jingmen Central Hospital, Jingmen Central Hospital 
affiliated to Jingchu University of Technology, Jingmen, 448000, China.
(4)Department of neurosurgery, Jingmen Central Hospital, Jingmen Central 
Hospital affiliated to Jingchu University of Technology, Jingmen, 448000, China.
(5)College of Medical, Jingchu University of Technology, Jingmen, 448000, China. 
Electronic address: 200707023@jcut.edu.cn.
(6)Department of neurosurgery, Jingmen Central Hospital, Jingmen Central 
Hospital affiliated to Jingchu University of Technology, Jingmen, 448000, China; 
College of Medical, Jingchu University of Technology, Jingmen, 448000, China. 
Electronic address: wang.fan1984@outlook.com.

BACKGROUND: Microglia-mediated neuroinflammation is closely related to the 
development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study further elucidated the 
regulatory mechanism of microglia polarization in AD.
METHOD: Microglia polarization was assessed using RT-qPCR, ELISA, and 
immunofluorescence (IF). Western blot (WB) analyzed inflammation-related, p-tau, 
and apoptosis-related proteins. Neuronal damage was evaluated by 
immunofluorescence, and neuronal apoptosis by flow cytometry and TUNEL assay. 
METTL3 and IκBα expression were detected using RT-qPCR and WB. 
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) levels were quantified with a colorimetric assay. RNA 
pull-down assay examined METTL3, IGF2BP2, and IκBα mRNA binding. IGF2BP 
expression was assessed by RT-qPCR. Learning and memory abilities were evaluated 
using morris water maze (MWM) test and novel object recognition (NOR) test. 
Inflammation-related proteins were detected using IF.
RESULTS: Stimulation with Aβ1-42 led to microglia M1 polarization, upregulation 
of inflammation-related proteins, and exacerbation of neuronal injury and 
apoptosis, along with increased p-tau expression in neurons. METTL3/IGF2BP2 
modulated IκBα m6A modification through binding to IκBα mRNA, enhancing its 
expression. Enhanced METTL3 or IGF2BP2 expression suppressed M1 polarization, 
inflammation, and neuronal apoptosis in microglia, reversed by knockdown of 
IκBα. AD model mice exhibited cognitive impairments, neuroinflammation, and 
elevated M1 polarization. METTL3 or IGF2BP2 overexpression improved cognitive 
function, reduced neuroinflammation, and inhibited M1 polarization, and this 
effect was similarly reversed by knockdown of IκBα.
CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates that the METTL3/IGF2BP2/IκBα axis is involved 
in neuroinflammation in AD by modulating microglia M1/M2 polarization, which 
sheds light on the treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2025.105964
PMID: 40107503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.61. Fitoterapia. 2025 Apr;182:106484. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2025.106484. Epub
2025  Mar 17.

A stilbenoid, rhapontigenin, isolated from the root of Rheum palmatum L. acts as 
a potent BACE1 inhibitor.

Oh JM(1), Kim SH(2), Pandey BP(3), Shin WH(4), Son HJ(1), Kwon YJ(2), Kim H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Sunchon National University, 
Suncheon 57922, Republic of Korea.
(2)National Development Institute of Korean Medicine, Gyeongsan 38540, Republic 
of Korea.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Sunchon National University, 
Suncheon 57922, Republic of Korea; Department of Chemical Science and 
Engineering, Kathmandu University, PO Box No. 6250, Dhulikhel, Kavre, Nepal. 
Electronic address: bishnu@ku.edu.np.
(4)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Korea University College of Medicine, 
Seoul 02708, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Sunchon National University, 
Suncheon 57922, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: hoon@sunchon.ac.kr.

Seven compounds, comprising three anthraquinones and four stilbenoids, were 
isolated from the roots of Rheum palmatum L. These compounds include 
chrysophanol (1), aloe-emodin (2), aloe-emodin 8-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (3), 
desoxyrhapontigenin (4), rhapontigenin (5), desoxyrhaponticin (6), and 
piceatannol 3'-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (7). Among these, compound 5 showed potent 
β-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) inhibitory activity 
with an IC50 value of 0.256 ± 0.008 μM, making it the most effective inhibitor 
obtained from herbal extracts to date, followed by compounds 3 
(1.164 ± 0.108 μM), 6 (1.213 ± 0.193 μM), 7 (1.270 ± 0.130 μM), and 4 
(2.028 ± 0.108 μM). Furthermore, kinetic analysis revealed that compound 5 acted 
as a mixed type-I inhibitor with an inhibition constant Ki value of 
0.28 ± 0.07 μM. Notably, compound 2 exhibited potent Aβ aggregation inhibition 
with an IC50 value of 3.56 ± 0.19 μM, whereas compound 5 showed low Aβ 
aggregation inhibition with an IC50 value of >40 μM. The docking simulations 
revealed that compound 5 had a high binding affinity and interacted with TYR132, 
predicting it as a key residue for inhibition via hydrophobic interaction, and 
with THR133 via hydrogen bonding, in the flap region of BACE1. These results 
suggest that stilbenoids generally exhibit higher BACE1 inhibitory activity than 
that of anthraquinones, and that compound 5 (rhapontigenin) could be a promising 
candidate for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease as a potent BACE1 inhibitor.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2025.106484
PMID: 40107427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


62. J Neurosci Methods. 2025 Jun;418:110428. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2025.110428.
 Epub 2025 Mar 17.

Potential mechanism and efficacy evaluation of transcranial focused ultrasound 
therapy for Alzheimer's disease.

Qin W(1), He J(2), Zhou Y(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China. Electronic address: tacoqin@163.com.
(2)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China. Electronic address: 
river_hjy@163.com.
(3)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China. Electronic address: 
Zhoumen1123456@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Transcranial focused ultrasound (TFU) is emerging as a promising 
non-invasive therapy capable of blood-brain barrier (BBB) opening. TFU 
potentially allows the transfer of therapeutic agents to targeted brain areas 
for patients affected with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
NEW METHOD: The efficacy and mechanism of TFU in modulating BBB permeability in 
key brain regions, including the hippocampus and frontal lobe, are investigated 
in this research. A total of 20 participants aged 60-85 years were involved with 
AD. The treatment protocol involved three TFU sessions, spaced three weeks 
apart. The research encompasses pre-assessment and post-assessment of treatment 
with follow-up ranging from 5 to 12 months.
RESULTS: Statistical analysis involved paired t-tests to compare pre- and 
post-treatment cognitive scores, and ANOVA to predict significant differences in 
amyloid reduction across different brain regions, with the high decrease 
observed in the hippocampus. Multivariate Analysis (MANOVA) to explore the 
combined effect of cognitive and amyloid data. Linear Regression Analysis to 
predict cognitive improvement from amyloid plaque reduction. Longitudinal 
analysis for time-to-event analysis assessing the durability of effects over 
time.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHODS: Florbetaben Positron Emission Tomography (PET) 
scans demonstrated a reduction in β-amyloid plaque burden, with a 15 % average 
decrease in the treated brain regions. No adverse effects on disease progression 
were observed up to 1 year after treatment.
CONCLUSION: This analysis presents the largest cohort of AD patients treated 
with TFU, with the longest follow-up to date. The treatment demonstrated safety 
and feasibility, with reversible BBB opening in multiple brain regions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2025.110428
PMID: 40107366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


63. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 5;998:177526. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177526.
Epub  2025 Mar 17.

Methylglyoxal-induced neuronal dysfunction: Linking diabetes to Alzheimer's 
disease through cytoskeletal disruption.

Tozihi M(1), Nourazarian A(2), Yousefi H(3), Dehghan G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Tabriz, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Khoy University of Medical Sciences, 
Khoy, Iran. Electronic address: noorazarian_a@khoyums.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Khoy University of Medical Sciences, 
Khoy, Iran.
(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Tabriz, 
Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: gdehghan@tabrizu.ac.ir.

This study investigates how methylglyoxal affects Alzheimer's disease, which is 
common in patients with diabetes mellitus. Using SH-SY5Y cells as a model of AD, 
we investigated the effects of MGO on cell viability, morphology, inflammation, 
and stress responses. Exposure to MGO induces cytotoxicity, inflammation and 
oxidative stress that contribute to AD in diabetic patients. We analyzed how MGO 
(150-900 μM) affects SH-SY5Y cells and its effects on cell survival, gene 
expression, cytoskeletal integrity, stress indicators, and Aβ42 accumulation 
(dose- and time-dependent). MGO dramatically affected cell viability depending 
on the dose and exposure time. Cell death occurred via intrinsic (BAX, CASP9) 
and extrinsic (FAS, FASLG) apoptotic pathways. Markers related to insulin 
signaling such as INSR, IRS1, IRS2, SLC2A4, etc. were downregulated, whereas 
markers of inflammation such as TNF-α, IL-6 and oxidative markers such as HMOX1, 
G6PD, etc. were upregulated with MGO (P < 0.001). Changes in MAP2 and TUBB3 
expression were associated with cytoskeletal damage (P < 0.01). High levels of 
Aβ42 and low SOD activity confirmed that oxidative stress was induced. LPS 
treatment exacerbated these effects (P < 0.01). The results highlight the 
possible role of MGO in cognitive decline associated with diabetes and suggest 
the need for novel treatment against MGO-related neurotoxicity.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177526
PMID: 40107340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


64. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2025 Apr 9;757:151605. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.151605. Epub 2025 Mar 7.

Intracellular anionic substances cause tau liquid-liquid phase separation.

Muguruma K(1), Takahashi T(2), Tagane Y(3), Nazere K(4), Hara N(5), Nakamori 
M(6), Yamazaki Y(7), Morino H(8), Maruyama H(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience and Therapeutics, Hiroshima University 
Graduate School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, 1-2-3, Kasumi, Minami-ku, 
Hiroshima-shi, Hiroshima, 734-8551, Japan. Electronic address: 
sixcars01@yahoo.co.jp.
(2)Department of Clinical Neuroscience and Therapeutics, Hiroshima University 
Graduate School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, 1-2-3, Kasumi, Minami-ku, 
Hiroshima-shi, Hiroshima, 734-8551, Japan; Department of Rehabilitation, Faculty 
of Rehabilitation, Hiroshima International University, 555-36 Kurose Gakuendai, 
Higashihiroshima-shi, Hiroshima, 739-2695, Japan; Department of Neurology, MNES 
Inc., 1-2-27 Shinonomehonmachi, Minami-ku, Hiroshima-shi, Hiroshima, 734-0023, 
Japan. Electronic address: tetakaha@mnes.org.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience and Therapeutics, Hiroshima University 
Graduate School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, 1-2-3, Kasumi, Minami-ku, 
Hiroshima-shi, Hiroshima, 734-8551, Japan. Electronic address: 
taganey@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.
(4)Department of Medical Genetics, Tokushima University Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, 3-18-15 Kuramoto-cho, Tokushima-shi, Tokushima, 770-8503, 
Japan. Electronic address: nazira3842@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, Hiroshima City North Medical Center Asa Citizens 
Hospital, 1-2-1 Kameyamaminami, Asakita-ku, Hiroshima-shi, Hiroshima, 731-0293, 
Japan. Electronic address: haran@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.
(6)Department of Clinical Neuroscience and Therapeutics, Hiroshima University 
Graduate School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, 1-2-3, Kasumi, Minami-ku, 
Hiroshima-shi, Hiroshima, 734-8551, Japan. Electronic address: 
mnakamori1@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Clinical Neuroscience and Therapeutics, Hiroshima University 
Graduate School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, 1-2-3, Kasumi, Minami-ku, 
Hiroshima-shi, Hiroshima, 734-8551, Japan. Electronic address: 
yuyamazaki@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.
(8)Department of Medical Genetics, Tokushima University Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, 3-18-15 Kuramoto-cho, Tokushima-shi, Tokushima, 770-8503, 
Japan. Electronic address: morino@tokushima-u.ac.jp.
(9)Department of Clinical Neuroscience and Therapeutics, Hiroshima University 
Graduate School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, 1-2-3, Kasumi, Minami-ku, 
Hiroshima-shi, Hiroshima, 734-8551, Japan. Electronic address: 
hmaru@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.

Tau protein aggregation plays an important role in the pathophysiology of 
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and Niemann-Pick 
disease type C. Liquid-liquid phase separation has emerged as a key mechanism in 
the early stages of protein aggregation for these disorders. Tau protein 
incubated with heparin undergoes liquid-liquid phase separation to form liquid 
droplets in vitro. However, whether tau liquid droplet formation occurs in vivo 
remains unresolved. To investigate cellular conditions that promote tau droplet 
formation, we treated tau-expressing human embryonic kidney 293T cells with 
reagents that introduced anionic substances or induced intracellular vesicle 
accumulation. Suppression of Niemann-Pick disease type C1 protein, a lysosomal 
membrane protein involved in mediating intracellular cholesterol trafficking, or 
the introduction of negatively charged dextran into cultured cells, increased 
the formation of tau-positive puncta with liquid droplet characteristics in a 
concentration-dependent manner. After prolonged observation, these puncta 
transitioned from a dynamic liquid state to a more solid-like gel phase, 
indicating progressive aggregation. Our findings suggest that intracellular 
enrichment of negatively charged substances or vesicles induces tau phase 
separation, potentially contributing to its pathological aggregation. These 
results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying tauopathies and 
highlight potential targets for therapeutic intervention.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.151605
PMID: 40107109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that this research was funded by Viatris Inc., Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd., 
and Sanofi Japan. The sponsors had no role in the study design, data collection, 
analysis, interpretation, manuscript preparation, or publication decision.


65. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 May;186:117995. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.117995. 
Epub 2025 Mar 18.

Discovery of new dual butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) inhibitors and 5-HT(7) 
receptor antagonists as compounds used to treat Alzheimer's disease symptoms.

Kułaga D(1), Drabczyk AK(2), Zaręba P(2), Jaśkowska J(2), Satała G(3), Zaręba 
P(4), Więckowska A(4), de Candia M(5), Purgatorio R(5), Boguszewska-Czubara 
A(6), Sudoł-Tałaj S(7), Latacz G(7), Plażuk D(8).

Author information:
(1)Cracow University of Technology, Faculty of Chemical Engineering and 
Technology, 24 Warszawska Street, Cracow 31-155, Poland. Electronic address: 
damian.kulaga@pk.edu.pl.
(2)Cracow University of Technology, Faculty of Chemical Engineering and 
Technology, 24 Warszawska Street, Cracow 31-155, Poland.
(3)Maj Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences Department of 
Medicinal Chemistry, 12 Smętna Street, Cracow 31-343, Poland.
(4)Jagiellonian University Medical College, Department of Physicochemical Drug 
Analysis, Faculty of Pharmacy, 9 Medyczna Street, Cracow 30-688, Poland.
(5)University of Bari "Aldo Moro", Department of Pharmacy-Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, 4 E. Orabona Street, Bari I-70125, Italy.
(6)Medical University of Lublin, Department of Medical Chemistry, 4a Chodźki 
Street, Lublin 20-093, Poland.
(7)Jagiellonian University Medical College, Department of Technology and 
Biotechnology of Drugs, Faculty of Pharmacy, 9 Medyczna Street, Kraków 30-688, 
Poland.
(8)Laboratory of Molecular Spectroscopy, Department of Organic Chemistry, 
Faculty of Chemistry, University of Lodz, 12 Tamka Street, Łódz 91-403, Poland.

Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative condition with no effective cure, and 
current therapies, like donepezil, only alleviate symptoms. Research has 
explored cholinesterase inhibitors and strategies targeting tau protein, often 
combining inhibitors with 5-HT receptor antagonists, particularly 5-HT6. 
However, dual-action BuChE inhibitors and 5-HT7 antagonists have not been 
studied until now. This study evaluated such compounds in an animal model, 
focusing on two candidates: compound 18 (BuChE IC50 = 4.75 μM; 5-HT7Ki = 7 nM) 
and compound 50 (BuChE IC50 = 2.53 μM; 5-HT7Ki = 1 nM). Compound 50 showed 
robust cognitive improvements, enhancing memory consolidation and acquisition, 
particularly in reversing scopolamine-induced deficits. In contrast, compound 18 
exhibited limited or dose-dependent efficacy, potentially limiting its 
applicability. These findings highlight the strong potential of compound 50 for 
cognitive enhancement therapies and suggest it warrants further investigation.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.117995
PMID: 40106969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Damian Kulaga reports financial 
support was provided by Cracow University of Technology. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


66. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):216-227. doi: 10.1177/13872877251326286.
Epub  2025 Mar 19.

Cerebrospinal fluid LMO4 as a synaptic biomarker linked to Alzheimer's disease 
pathology and cognitive decline.

Chen YH(1), Wang ZB(2), Liu XP(3), Mao ZQ(4); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)The First Clinical Medical School, Hebei North University, Zhangjiakou, 
China.
(2)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Center for Neurological 
Disorders, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Hebei North 
University, Hebei, Zhangjiakou, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, the First Medical Center of Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing, China.

BackgroundLIM-domain-only 4 (LMO4) is involved in neurodevelopment and synaptic 
plasticity, but its role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains 
unclear.ObjectiveTo investigate the association between cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) LMO4 levels and core AD biomarkers, neurodegeneration, and cognitive 
decline.MethodsWe included 703 participants from the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). Associations between CSF LMO4 and AD biomarkers 
(Aβ42, Ptau181, amyloid PET) and postmortem neuropathology were evaluated. We 
also explored cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between CSF LMO4 and 
neurodegeneration and cognitive function. Receiver operating characteristic 
(ROC) analysis assessed the diagnostic accuracy of CSF LMO4 in distinguishing 
Aβ-positive from Aβ-negative participants and amyloid PET-confirmed AD cases. 
Mediation analysis explored the potential mediating role of CSF LMO4 between Aβ 
pathology and tau pathology.ResultsLMO4 levels were decreased in participants 
with abnormal Aβ levels and cognitive impairment. Lower CSF LMO4 levels were 
associated with increased Aβ and tau pathology, brain atrophy, cognitive 
decline, and postmortem neuropathology. CSF LMO4 partially mediated the 
relationship between Aβ and tau pathology and demonstrated acceptable 
discriminative ability in distinguishing Aβ-positive from Aβ-negative 
participants and amyloid PET-confirmed AD from non-AD cases.ConclusionsCSF LMO4 
plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis and progression of AD and may represent 
a potential therapeutic target for AD treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251326286
PMID: 40105503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Zhi-Qi Mao is an 
Editorial Board Member of this journal but was not involved in the peer-review 
process of this article nor had access to any information regarding its 
peer-review.The authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect 
to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


67. Technol Health Care. 2025 Mar;33(2):1140-1153. doi:
10.1177/09287329241291323.  Epub 2024 Nov 25.

Unraveling the genetic mysteries of sarcopenia: A bioinformatics approach.

Deng H(1), Wang Y(1), Dai Y(1), Wang Q(1), Lu H(1), Wang Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of 
Medical School, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.

Background As life expectancy increases and the global population ages, the 
incidence of sarcopenia is also increasing, highlighting the need for better 
diagnosis and treatment methods.ObjectiveTo study the genetic expression of 
sarcopenia using bioinformatics methods.MethodsA Weighted Gene Coexpression 
Network Analysis (WGCNA) was conducted to construct coexpression networks, along 
with protein-protein interaction networks. Diagnostic biomarker potential was 
evaluated using receiver operating characteristic curves. An analysis of 
Single-Sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA) was performed in order to 
determine the amount of immune cell infiltration. We analyzed Kyoto Encyclopedia 
of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways and Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment using the 
KEGG.ResultsWGCNA identified modules linked to bone metabolism, ssGSEA showed 
unique gene enrichment patterns, and 268 genes were found to be differentially 
expressed in sarcopenia. Fourteen co-expression modules related to bone 
metabolism were identified, with one showing a strong positive correlation. KEGG 
pathway analysis indicated downregulation of the renin-angiotensin system and 
Alzheimer's disease pathways. The differentially expressed genes were primarily 
involved in adipocyte differentiation.ConclusionThis study analyzes genetic 
changes and immune cell patterns in sarcopenia, providing insights into its 
causes and potential diagnostic markers for future research on treatments.

DOI: 10.1177/09287329241291323
PMID: 40105173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


68. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2025 Mar 4;16(3):475-482. doi: 
10.1021/acsmedchemlett.4c00635. eCollection 2025 Mar 13.

In-Silico Screening-Based Discovery of New Natural eEF2K Inhibitors with 
Neuritogenic Activity.

Wang SQ(1)(2)(3), Wang X(1)(2)(3), Guo L(1)(2)(3), Chen XX(1)(2)(3), Huang 
XJ(1)(2)(3), Zhang S(1)(2)(3), Ye WC(1)(2)(3), Zhang XQ(1)(2)(3), Shi 
L(1)(2)(3), Wang Y(1)(2)(3), Hu LJ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, 
Guangdong Basic Research Center of Excellence for Natural Bioactive Molecules 
and Discovery of Innovative Drugs, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Pharmacodynamic Constituents of TCM & 
New Drugs Research, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, People's Republic of 
China.
(3)Center for Bioactive Natural Molecules and Innovative Drugs Research, College 
of Pharmacy, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, People's Republic of China.

Eukaryotic elongation factor 2 kinase (eEF2K), an atypical Ser/Thr-protein 
kinase that regulates neuronal protein synthesis homeostasis via an inhibitory 
phosphorylation of eEF2, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for 
several diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we employed 
molecular docking with an in-house natural product library of 4270 compounds, 
containing 2177 novel compounds and 603 new structural frameworks, to identify 
eEF2K inhibitors. Following virtual screening, 25 natural products were selected 
for in-vitro evaluation of eEF2 phosphorylation inhibition as well as protein 
synthesis promotion. Our findings identified that compounds 17 and 23 potently 
suppress eEF2K activity, increase protein synthesis, and concurrently induce 
neuritogenesis. Molecular dynamics simulations suggest that 17 and 23 may stably 
bind to the eEF2K protein. Our findings highlighted 17 and 23 as new natural 
eEF2K inhibitors and promising candidates for promoting neural differentiation, 
providing potential therapeutic leads for the treatment of AD.

© 2025 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsmedchemlett.4c00635
PMCID: PMC11912280
PMID: 40104800

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


69. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2025 Feb 13;16(3):368-370. doi: 
10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00045. eCollection 2025 Mar 13.

Identification of Indazole- and Azaindazole-Substituted Cyclopentapyrroles as 
G2019S Leucine-Rich Repeat Kinase 2 Inhibitors for the Treatment of CNS 
Disorders.

Feng S(1), Liang SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Emory University, Atlanta, 
Georgia 30322, United States.

This patent describes a novel class of novel indazole/azaindazole-substituted 
cyclopentapyrroles, which selectively inhibit the Leucine-Rich Repeat Kinase 2 
(LRRK2) with G2019S mutation. These LRRK2 inhibitors are proposed for treating 
Parkinson's diseases, Alzheimer's disease, and other central nervous system 
(CNS) disorders.

Published 2025 by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsmedchemlett.5c00045
PMCID: PMC11912279
PMID: 40104794

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


70. NPJ Dement. 2025;1(1):2. doi: 10.1038/s44400-024-00001-z. Epub 2025 Mar 12.

A Phase IIa clinical trial to evaluate the effects of anti-retroviral therapy in 
Alzheimer's disease (ART-AD).

Sullivan AC(1)(2), Zuniga G(1)(3)(4), Ramirez P(1)(3)(4)(5), Fernandez R(1)(6), 
Wang CP(1)(6), Li J(3), Davila L(1)(3)(4)(5), Pelton K(5), Gomez S(3)(7), Sohn 
C(1)(3)(4), Gonzalez E(1)(3)(4), Lopez-Cruzan M(3)(8), Gonzalez DA(1)(2)(9), 
Parker A(1)(2), Zilli E(1)(2), de Erausquin GA(1)(2), Seshadri S(1)(2), Espinoza 
S(7), Musi N(7), Frost B(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
University of Texas Health San Antonio, San Antonio, TX USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Texas Health San Antonio, San Antonio, 
TX USA.
(3)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
San Antonio, San Antonio, TX USA.
(4)Department of Cell Systems and Anatomy, University of Texas Health San 
Antonio, San Antonio, TX USA.
(5)Brown University Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research, Providence, RI USA.
(6)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Texas Health San 
Antonio, San Antonio, TX USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Texas Health 
San Antonio, Department of Neurological Sciences, San Antonio, TX USA.
(9)Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Feb 28:2024.02.26.24303316. doi: 10.1101/2024.02.26.24303316.

Retrotransposons constitute over 40% of the human genome. Studies in Drosophila, 
mice, cultured cells, and human brain show that retrotransposons are activated 
in tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease, and causally drive 
neurodegeneration. The reverse transcriptase inhibitor 3TC (lamivudine) reduces 
retrotransposon activation and suppresses tau neurotoxicity among model systems. 
This phase 2a open-label trial (Pilot Study to Investigate the Safety and 
Feasibility of Anti-Retroviral Therapy for Alzheimer's Disease, NCT04552795, 
registered 09/10/2020) followed 12 participants with early Alzheimer's disease 
(MMSE > 24, CDR = 0.5) over 24 weeks to assess safety, tolerability, and 
feasibility of daily 300 mg 3TC treatment. The sample was well-educated (12-20 
years) and culturally diverse (25% from underrepresented groups). In addition to 
a favorable safety profile and stable cognitive measures, notable significant 
changes in fluid-based biomarkers include reduction of glial fibrillary acidic 
protein (GFAP) (P = 0.03) in CSF, suggestive of reduced neuroinflammation, and 
elevation of Aβ42/40 (P = 0.009) in plasma, suggestive of reduced plaque load in 
the brain. These results warrant further exploration in a larger, 
placebo-controlled trial.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1038/s44400-024-00001-z
PMCID: PMC11917871
PMID: 40104524

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsBF serves on the Scientific 
Advisory Board for Transposon Therapeutics. All other authors have no competing 
interests to declare.


71. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Mar 4;17:1525626. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1525626.
 eCollection 2025.

Knowledge domain and emerging trends in post-stroke cognitive impairment: a 
bibliometric analysis.

Zhang H(#)(1), Li Y(#)(1), Zhan L(2), Long J(3), Shen J(1), Chen J(1), Qian 
J(4), Pan Z(1), Wu X(5), Wang Z(1)(6), Wu W(7), Huang G(1)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Affiliated With Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Wenzhou Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese 
and Western Medicine, Wenzhou, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Wenzhou Central Hospital, Wenzhou, China.
(4)Department of Mental Health, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Affiliated With Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(5)Department of Thyroid and Breast Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Affiliated With Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
China.
(6)Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang Province, Institute of 
Aging, Wenzhou, China.
(7)Department of Endocrinology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Affiliated With Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(8)School of Mental Health, Affiliated With Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment is an important cause of disability and death 
among the elderly. One of the most important risk factors is stroke. Post-stroke 
cognitive impairment (PSCI) not only diminishes the quality of life for patients 
but also increases the burden on families and society. But PSCI can be mitigated 
through early intervention. Cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) is one of the 
significant causes of stroke and has garnered considerable attention in PSCI. 
Therefore, this study aims to identify research priorities and trends in PSCI 
through bibliometric analysis, and further explore the role played by CSVD in 
PSCI.
METHODS: In this study, we performed a systematic search in the Science Citation 
Index Expanded (SCI-E) of the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC). VOSviewer, 
CiteSpace and Origin were mainly used to visualize the research focus and trend 
in PSCI. In addition, we screened the retrieved literature again, and performed 
keyword analysis on the studies related to CSVD.
RESULTS: A total of 1,943 publications were retrieved in the field of PSCI in 
this study, with consistent upward trend in annual publications in recent years. 
Pendlebury was an important leader in PSCI research. Capital Medical University 
was in the leading position judging from the number of publications. China had 
the highest number of publications in this field. The journal Stroke had the 
strongest international influence in this field. Keywords such as "functional 
connectivity," "tool," "systematic review," and "meta-analysis" have been 
revealed to have momentous impact on PSCI in recent years. In the further 
analysis of PSCI and CSVD, "hypertension," "white matter hyperintensities 
(WMH)," "cerebral microbleeds (CMBs)," and "cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA)" 
received extensive attention.
CONCLUSION: The study of PSCI is still in the development stage. This study 
systematically summarizes the progress and development trend in the field of 
PSCI, and further explores the relationship between CSVD and PSCI through 
hypertension and magnetic resonance imaging markers. This study is of great 
significance for researchers to quickly understand the development of PSCI, but 
also helps them understand future directions, and provides important insights 
for the prevention and treatment of PSCI.

Copyright © 2025 Zhang, Li, Zhan, Long, Shen, Chen, Qian, Pan, Wu, Wang, Wu and 
Huang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1525626
PMCID: PMC11913868
PMID: 40103932

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


72. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Mar 4;17:1522434. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1522434.
 eCollection 2025.

Sex-related differences in genetically determined Alzheimer's disease.

Del Hoyo Soriano L(1)(2), Wagemann O(3), Bejanin A(1)(2), Levin J(3)(4)(5), 
Fortea J(1)(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i 
Sant Pau, Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Center of Biomedical Investigation Network for Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Neurology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) München, 
Munich, Germany.
(4)German Center for Neurodegenerative Disease (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(5)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(6)Barcelona Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana de Síndrome de Down, 
Barcelona, Spain.

We reviewed the literature on sex differences in genetically determined 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), focusing on autosomal dominant AD (ADAD), Down 
syndrome-associated AD (DSAD), and APOE4 homozygosity, particularly regarding 
disease penetrance, symptom onset and clinical progression, and trajectories for 
markers of amyloidosis (A), tau pathology (T) and neurodegeneration (N). Data 
suggests that sex differences in disease penetrance, symptom onset, and AT(N) 
biomarker trajectories are typically subtle for genetically determined AD 
populations. Noteworthy exceptions, such as increased neurodegeneration in later 
stages of the disease in females while similar cognitive outcomes, suggest a 
potential differential cognitive reserve that warrants further investigation. 
Additionally, the interaction between APOE genotype and sex reveals complex and 
multifaceted effects in DSAD, with potential implications for ADAD that remain 
underexplored. The smaller sex differences observed compared to sporadic AD 
offer insights into the different underlying disease mechanisms in genetically 
determined AD populations. Future research should prioritize sex-specific 
investigations in genetically determined AD, focusing on refining methodologies. 
This includes prioritizing longitudinal designs, adjustment for key confounders, 
and adherence to sex-specific guidelines.

Copyright © 2025 Del Hoyo Soriano, Wagemann, Bejanin, Levin and Fortea.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1522434
PMCID: PMC11913828
PMID: 40103931

Conflict of interest statement: JF has received personal fees for service on 
advisory boards, adjudication committees, or speaker honoraria from AC Immune, 
Adamed, Alzheon, Biogen, Eisai, Esteve, Fujirebio, Ionis, Laboratorios Carnot, 
Life Molecular Imaging, Lilly, Lundbeck, Perha, and Roche, outside the submitted 
work. JF also holds a patent for markers of synaptopathy in neurodegenerative 
disease (licensed to Adx, EPI8382175.0). JL reports speaker fees from Bayer 
Vital, Biogen, EISAI, TEVA, Zambon, Esteve, Merck and Roche, consulting fees 
from Axon Neuroscience, EISAI and Biogen, author fees from Thieme medical 
publishers and W. Kohlhammer GmbH medical publishers and is inventor in a patent 
“Oral Phenylbutyrate for Treatment of Human 4-Repeat Tauopathies” 
(PCT/EP2024/053388) filed by LMU Munich. In addition, JL reports compensation 
for serving as chief medical officer for MODAG GmbH is beneficiary of the 
phantom share program of MODAG GmbH and is inventor in a patent “Pharmaceutical 
Composition and Methods of Use” (EP 22 159 408.8) filed by MODAG GmbH, all 
activities outside the submitted work. The other authors report no relevant 
disclosures. The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in 
the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed 
as a potential conflict of interest. The handling editor SG declared a past 
collaboration with the author JF.


73. J Labelled Comp Radiopharm. 2025 Mar;68(3):e4140. doi: 10.1002/jlcr.4140.

Development and Validation of an HPLC Method to Determine Chemical and 
Radiochemical Purity of [(18)F]Florbetazine Injection.

Wu F(1)(2), Wang X(2), Chen H(2), Zhou X(2), Zhao H(2), Cui M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, College of Chemistry and Life Science, Center of 
Excellence for Environmental Safety and Biological Effects, Beijing University 
of Technology, Beijing, China.
(2)High Tech Atom Co., Ltd., Beijing 102413, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Radiopharmaceuticals, Ministry of Education, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.

[18F]Florbetazine injection, a radiotracer that could target Aβ plaques and 
achieve diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is a novel positron emission 
tomography (PET) imaging agent currently in the investigational new drug (IND) 
application stage. The active ingredient of [18F]Florbetazine injection, 
[18F]Florbetazine, is a diaryl-azine derivative. Chemical and radiochemical 
purity is critical quality attributes (CQAs) for [18F]Florbetazine injection, 
and thus, we have developed and validated a relevant HPLC method. This study 
describes the specificity, linearity, accuracy, repeatability, and limit of 
quantification (LOQ) of the HPLC method. The stability of three sample batches 
was investigated using the established method. The validation results 
demonstrated the accuracy, precision, and sensitivity of the method, making it 
suitable for implementation as part of the quality control (QC) process for 
[18F]Florbetazine injection. The stability of three sample batches revealed a 
decrease in concentration and radiochemical purity over 10 h. However, all 
samples maintained a radiochemical purity of over 90% after 10 h. The results 
provided a foundation for establishing quality standards for [18F]Florbetazine 
injection. The same methodology employed in this study could be applied and 
modified for QC protocols of other 18F-labeled radiopharmaceuticals.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jlcr.4140
PMID: 40103265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Behav Brain Funct. 2025 Mar 18;21(1):7. doi: 10.1186/s12993-025-00271-4.

Improving effects of melatonin on memory and synaptic potentiation in a mouse 
model of Alzheimer's-like disease: the involvement of glutamate homeostasis and 
mGluRs receptors.

Shabani Sadr NK(1), Bakhtiarzadeh F(2), Shahpasand K(3), Mirnajafi-Zadeh 
J(2)(4), Behmanesh M(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran, P.O Box 14115-154.
(2)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran, P.O. Box, 14115-331.
(3)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Cell Science Research Center, 
Royan Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Technology, ACECR, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Institute for Brain and Cognition, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran, P.O Box 14115-154. behmanesh@modares.ac.ir.
(6)Institute for Brain and Cognition, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Tehran, Iran. behmanesh@modares.ac.ir.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive cognitive 
decline and synaptic dysfunction, largely driven by amyloid plaques and 
neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) composed of hyperphosphorylated tau. These 
pathological hallmarks disrupt glutamate signaling, which is essential for 
synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation. This study investigates the 
therapeutic potential of melatonin on memory and synaptic plasticity in an 
AD-like mouse model, with a focus on its regulatory effects on glutamate 
homeostasis and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs).
METHODS: The study began with an in-silico bioinformatics analysis of RNA-seq 
datasets from hippocampal tissues of AD patients to identify differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) related to glutamate signaling and tau pathology. An 
AD-like model was induced via intra-hippocampal injection of cis-phospho tau in 
C57BL/6 mice. Memory function was assessed using behavioral tests. Synaptic 
plasticity was evaluated using in vitro field potential recording of hippocampal 
slices. Histological analyses included Nissl staining for neuronal density, 
Luxol Fast Blue for myelin integrity, and immunofluorescence for tau 
hyperphosphorylation. Molecular studies employed qPCR and Western blot to assess 
glutamate-related markers and tau phosphorylation. Melatonin (10 mg/kg) was 
administered intraperitoneally, starting either two weeks (early intervention) 
or four weeks (late intervention) post-induction.
RESULTS: Key molecular targets in glutamate signaling pathways were identified 
using bioinformatics. AD-like mice displayed memory deficits and synaptic 
dysfunction. Melatonin improved cognitive function, especially with early 
intervention, as confirmed by behavioral tests. Histological studies revealed 
reduced neuronal loss, improved myelin integrity, and decreased tau 
hyperphosphorylation. Molecular findings showed restored mGluR expression and 
reduced GSK3 activity. Early intervention yielded superior outcomes, with 
partial restoration of synaptic plasticity observed in LTP recordings.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings underscore the neuroprotective properties of 
melatonin, mediated by its ability to modulate glutamate signaling and mGluR 
activity, offering new insights into its potential as a therapeutic agent for 
AD. Additionally, the results suggest that earlier administration of melatonin 
may significantly enhance its efficacy, highlighting the importance of timely 
intervention in neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12993-025-00271-4
PMCID: PMC11916854
PMID: 40102986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All experiments were conducted following the Guidelines for the 
care and use of laboratory animals and approved by the “Ethics Committee of 
Tarbiat Modares University” (IR.MODARES.REC.1400.217). Consent for publication: 
Not applicable Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


75. Gerontologist. 2025 Apr 9;65(5):gnaf054. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnaf054.

Caregiver Assessment of Socioemotional Functioning in People Living With 
Neurodegenerative Disease (Part 1): Construct Validity of a New Measure.

Otero MC(1), Brown CK(2), Grimm KJ(3), Ascher EA(1), Casey JJ(1), Kramer JH(4), 
Levenson RW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, 
California, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington D.C., USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona, USA.
(4)University of California, San Fransisco, San Fransisco, California, USA.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1093/geront/gnaf044.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Neurodegenerative diseases cause socioemotional 
changes that are commonly measured using laboratory-based assessments. However, 
these assessments can be labor-, cost-, and time-intensive. We aim to establish 
the psychometric properties of a novel informant-rated measure, the Caregiver 
Assessment of Socioemotional Functioning (CASEF).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Using 3 independent samples including 366 informal 
caregivers and their 366 care recipients with a variety of neurodegenerative 
diseases and 240 neurotypical individuals, we conducted exploratory and 
confirmatory factor analyses to establish the structural validity of the CASEF. 
Additionally, to establish convergent validity, we compared caregiver reports of 
socioemotional functioning to care recipients' objective performance on a 
variety of laboratory measures of socioemotional functioning.
RESULTS: The CASEF captured multiple aspects of care recipients' socioemotional 
functioning, including the ability to (a) generate negative emotional responses 
(negative emotional reactivity), (b) generate positive emotional responses 
(positive emotional reactivity), (c) recognize others' emotions (emotion 
recognition), and (d) control emotional responses (emotion regulation). Each 
factor was associated with a corresponding laboratory-based measure, except for 
emotion regulation, which instead corresponded to a clinician-rated measure of 
care recipient disinhibition.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Findings suggest the CASEF is a psychometrically 
sound informant-report measure of socioemotional functioning in people living 
with neurodegenerative diseases and may be a valuable tool for identifying 
specific socioemotional impairments in the context of neurodegenerative disease.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnaf054
PMCID: PMC12048799
PMID: 40102695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


76. Sci Rep. 2025 Mar 18;15(1):9238. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-93560-x.

Stages prediction of Alzheimer's disease with shallow 2D and 3D CNNs from 
intelligently selected neuroimaging data.

Ur Rahman J(1), Hanif M(1), Ur Rehman O(2), Haider U(3), Mian Qaisar S(4)(5), 
Pławiak P(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Computer Science and Engineering, Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of 
Engineering Sciences and Technology, Topi, Pakistan.
(2)Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, University of Malaya, 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Department of AI & DS, FAST School of Computing, National University of 
Computer and Emerging Sciences, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(4)College of Engineering and Technology, American University of the Middle 
East, Egaila, Kuwait. saeed.qaisar@aum.edu.kw.
(5)Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, Effat University, 21478, 
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. saeed.qaisar@aum.edu.kw.
(6)Department of Computer Science, Faculty of Computer Science and 
Telecommunications, Cracow University of Technology, Warszawska 24, 31-155, 
Krakow, Poland. plawiak@pk.edu.pl.
(7)Institute of Theoretical and Applied Informatics, Polish Academy of Sciences, 
Bałtycka 5, 44-100, Gliwice, Poland. plawiak@pk.edu.pl.

Detection of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is critical for successful diagnosis and 
treatment, involving the common practice of screening for Mild Cognitive 
Impairment (MCI). However, the progressive nature of AD makes it challenging to 
identify its causal factors. Modern diagnostic workflows for AD use cognitive 
tests, neurological examinations, and biomarker-based methods, e.g., 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis and positron emission tomography (PET) 
imaging. While these methods are effective, non-invasive imaging techniques like 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) are gaining importance. Deep Learning (DL) 
approaches for evaluating alterations in brain structure have focused on 
combining MRI and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) within the spatial 
architecture of DL. This combination has garnered significant research interest 
due to its remarkable effectiveness in automating feature extraction across 
various multilayer perceptron models. Despite this, MRI's noisy and 
multidimensional nature requires an intelligent preprocessing pipeline for 
effective disease prediction. Our study aims to detect different stages of AD 
from the multidimensional neuroimaging data obtained through MRI scans using 2D 
and 3D CNN architectures. The proposed preprocessing pipeline comprises skull 
stripping, spatial normalization, and smoothing. It is followed by a novel and 
efficient pixel count-based frame selection and cropping approach, which renders 
a notable dimension reduction. Furthermore, the learnable resizer method is 
applied to enhance the image quality while resizing the data. Finally, the 
proposed shallow 2D and 3D CNN architectures extract spatio-temporal attributes 
from the segmented MRI data. Furthermore, we merged both the CNNs for further 
comparative analysis. Notably, 2D CNN achieved a maximum accuracy of 93%, while 
3D CNN reported the highest accuracy of 96.5%.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-93560-x
PMCID: PMC11920085
PMID: 40102464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


77. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2025 Mar;31(3):e70335. doi: 10.1111/cns.70335.

Acute Restraint Stress Induces Long-Lasting Synaptic Enhancement by Inhibiting 
AMPK Activation in AD Model Mice.

Wang M(1), Jin B(2), Jo J(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Health Science Center, Ningbo University, Ningbo, 
China.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital of Ningbo University, Ningbo, China.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chonnam National University Medical 
School, Gwangju, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by a gradual synaptic 
loss. The progression of AD severely affects late-phase long-term potentiation 
(L-LTP), which is essential for long-term memory consolidation.
AIM: We have previously demonstrated the beneficial effects of acute restraint 
stress (ARS) on hippocampal LTP in AD mouse models. This study aimed to verify 
the effects and potential mechanisms of ARS on the maintenance of hippocampal 
L-LTP in two AD mouse models.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 5xFAD and Tg2576 mice underwent a 30-min body 
immobilization protocol to induce ARS, followed by electrophysiological 
recordings of L-LTP (> 3 h) in the CA1 region of thehippocampus.
RESULTS: The ARS-exposed group exhibited significantly enhanced L-LTP compared 
to the control group. Maintenance of L-LTP requires new protein synthesis and 
signaling via the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway. Our findings 
revealed that ARS increased hippocampal adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production 
and reduced AMPK activity. Inactivation of AMPK and subsequent activation of the 
mTOR pathway were strongly associated with the ARS-facilitated enhancement of 
L-LTP. Furthermore, our experiments using the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin 
demonstrated that it effectively prevented the enhancement of L-LTP following 
ARS, underscoring the pivotal role of mTOR in this process.
CONCLUSION: ARS may significantly modify AMPK activation and mTOR regulation in 
L-LTP, potentially triggering the mechanisms of long-term memory consolidation 
in AD mouse model mice. Identifying these underlying mechanisms could help 
promote the development of novel pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.70335
PMCID: PMC11919636
PMID: 40102200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


78. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Jun;12(6):100132. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100132.  Epub 2025 Mar 17.

Patient management pathways in dementia - Resource utilisation, diagnosis and 
drug treatment in the Stockholm region, Sweden.

Aho E(1), Religa D(2), Ding M(3), Winblad B(4), Jönsson L(5), Modig K(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, The Center for Alzheimer Research Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden. Electronic address: emil.aho@ki.se.
(2)Division of Clinical geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, The Center for Alzheimer Research Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm 
Sweden.
(3)Unit of Epidemiology, Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, The Center for Alzheimer Research Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska Univ Hospital, Huddinge, 
Sweden.
(5)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, The Center for Alzheimer Research Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: New diagnostic and therapeutic options for Alzheimer's disease are 
beginning to be introduced and expected igto become more widely available in the 
coming years. Improved understanding of current pathways in diagnosis and 
initial care of patients with dementia can help inform choices around how best 
to integrate new technologies in existing care structures.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study is to describe the care management pathways 
defined by the involvement of specialist and primary care for individuals with 
newly diagnosed dementia. It also seeks to characterise individuals in different 
management pathways based on resource use prior to diagnosis, the type of 
dementia diagnosis received, and the proportion who receive symptomatic 
anti-dementia drug treatment.
DESIGN: Observational cohort study SETTING: Stockholm region, Sweden.
PARTICIPANTS: All newly diagnosed dementia cases between 1st January 2018 to 
30th June 2020 (n = 9,781). Dementia diagnoses in primary care were based on 
Regional Stockholm health care database and diagnoses in specialist care were 
based on the National Patient Register in Sweden.
MEASUREMENTS: Care management pathways were categorized into three groups: 
primary care only (diagnosed and followed up in primary care), specialist, no 
follow-up (diagnosed in specialist care but not followed up in specialist care), 
and specialist with follow-up (diagnosed and followed up in specialist care). 
These classifications were based on patients' care episodes from the date of 
diagnosis and the subsequent 18 months. age at diagnosis, resource utilisation 
one-year prior diagnosis and diagnosis given and symptomatic anti-dementia 
treatment 18 months after initial diagnosis.
RESULTS: A total of 9,781 newly diagnosed dementia cases were identified. In the 
18 months following diagnosis, 63 % of patients were diagnosed either partly or 
fully in specialist care, while 37 % were diagnosed solely in primary care. 
Patients diagnosed and managed only in primary care were older, spent more days 
in hospital, and received more social care in the year preceding their 
diagnosis. Their total care costs were also the highest. Alzheimer's disease was 
the most common diagnosis (48 %), while 27 % had an unspecified dementia 
diagnosis, varying by care setting (61 % for patients managed in primary care 
only and 6 % for patients diagnosed and followed up in specialist care). 
Overall, 47 % of patients received symptomatic anti-dementia treatment, with the 
highest share for patients diagnosed and followed up in specialist care (73 %) 
and the lowest in primary care only (19 %). Diagnosis varied by age and care 
setting Alzheimer's was most common in settings involving specialist care, 
whereas unspecified dementia was more common in primary care only regardless of 
age.
CONCLUSION: The findings that patients managed exclusively in primary care were 
older, had higher pre-diagnosis resource utilisation, and were less likely to 
receive specific diagnoses or anti-dementia treatments highlight the crucial 
role of primary care in diagnosing and managing dementia among older individuals 
with complex needs. Further research is needed to explore primary care's role in 
diagnosis and treatment across diverse healthcare systems. Future research is 
needed to explore whether and how new diagnostic tools and treatment for AD 
could facilitate timely diagnosis and care for older individuals with dementia 
in primary care.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100132
PMCID: PMC12434265
PMID: 40102146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Emil Aho reports financial support 
was provided by Sweden's Innovation Agency. Bengt Winblad reports a relationship 
with Artery Therapeutics Inc, AlzeCure, Alzinova that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Linus onsson has patent with royalties paid to Resource Utilisation in 
Dementia (RUD) instrument. Bengt Winblad has patent with royalties paid to 
Resource Utilisation in Dementia (RUD) instrument. Linus Jönsson has received 
consulting fees from H. Lundbeck A/S, Eli Lilly Inc and Novo Nordisk A/S If 
there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.


79. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;12(5):100098. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100098.  Epub 2025 Mar 17.

Brain health services for the secondary prevention of cognitive impairment and 
dementia: Opportunities, challenges, and the business case for existing and 
future facilities.

Frisoni GB(1), Ribaldi F(2), Allali G(3), Bieth T(4), Brioschi Guevara A(5), 
Cappa S(6), Cipolotti L(7), Frederiksen KS(8), Georges J(9), Jessen F(10), Koch 
G(11), Masters H(12), Mendes AJ(2), Frölich L(13), Garibotto V(14), Grau-Rivera 
O(15), Pozzi FE(16), Religa D(17), Rostamzadeh A(18), Shallcross L(19), Shenkin 
SD(20), van der Flier WM(21), Vernooij MW(22), Visser LNC(23), Cummings JL(24), 
Scheltens P(25), Dubois B(26), Moro E(8), Bassetti CLA(27), Kivipelto M(28).

Author information:
(1)Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, University 
Hospitals and University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
giovanni.frisoni@unige.ch.
(2)Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, University 
Hospitals and University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Leenaards Memory Centre, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University 
Hospital of Lausanne (CHUV), Lausanne, Switzerland.
(4)Institut de la Mémoire et de la Maladie d'Alzheimer, IM2A, Groupe Hospitalier 
Pitié-Salpêtrière, Sorbonne Université, Paris, France.
(5)Leenaards Memory Centre, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University 
Hospital of Lausanne (CHUV), Lausanne, Switzerland; Faculty of Psychology and 
Educational Sciences, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(6)Federation of the European Societies of Neuropsychology (FESN) University 
Institute of Advanced Studies Pavia, Italy; IRCCS Istituto Auxologico Italiano, 
Milan.
(7)Federation of the European Societies of Neuropsychology (FESN), Switzerland.
(8)European Academy of Neurology (EAN), Switzerland.
(9)Alzheimer Europe, Switzerland.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital 
Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany; German Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn-Cologne, Germany; Excellence Cluster 
Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Related Diseases (CECAD), Medical Faculty, 
University of Cologne, Germany.
(11)Department of Clinical and Behavioural Neurology, Santa Lucia Foundation 
IRCCS, 00179, Rome, Italy; Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, 
University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy; Center for Translational Neurophysiology 
of Speech and Communication (CTNSC), Italian Institute of Technology (IIT), 
Ferrara, Italy.
(12)Brain Health Scotland United Kingdom.
(13)European Alzheimer's Disease Consortium, Switzerland.
(14)European Association of Nuclear Medicine (EANM), Switzerland.
(15)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(16)Clinica Neurologica, IRCCS San Gerardo dei Tintori, Monza, Italy.
(17)European geriatric medicine society (EuGMS), Switzerland; Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(18)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital 
Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(19)World Dementia Forum, London, UK.
(20)European geriatric medicine society (EuGMS), Switzerland; University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland United Kingdom.
(21)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Epidemiology and Data Science, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(22)European Society of Neuroradiology (ESNR), Switzerland.
(23)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department 
of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Department of Medical Psychology, Amsterdam Public Health Research 
Institute, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(24)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, School of Integrated Health Sciences, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, 
NV, USA.
(25)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; EQT Life Sciences, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(26)Institut de la Mémoire et de la Maladie d'Alzheimer, IM2A, Groupe 
Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Sorbonne Université, Paris, France; Institut du 
Cerveau et de la Moelle Épinière, UMR-S975, INSERM, Paris, France Hôpital de la 
Pitié-Salpêtrière, France.
(27)European Brain Council, European Academy of Neurology, Swiss Brain Health 
Plan, Switzerland; Inselspital and Faculty of Medicine, University of Bern, 
Bern, Switzerland.
(28)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department 
of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland; Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden; The Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit, School of 
Public Health, Imperial College London, London, UK.

A European Task Force has recently developed and published the concept and 
protocols for the setup of the innovative health offer of Brain Health Services 
for the secondary prevention of dementia and cognitive impairment (dBHS). dBHS 
are outpatient health care facilities where adult persons can find an assessment 
of their risk of developing cognitive impairment and dementia, have their risk 
level and contributing factors communicated using appropriate language supported 
by adequate communication tools, can decide to participate to programs for 
personalized risk reduction if at higher risk, and benefit from cognitive 
enhancement interventions. This health offer is distinct from that of currently 
active memory clinics. The ultimate aim of dBHS is to extend healthy life, free 
from cognitive impairment. Here, we (i) discuss the pertinent opportunities and 
challenges for those persons who want to benefit from dBHS, professionals, and 
wider society, (ii) describe the concepts, protocols, organizational features, 
and patient journeys of some currently active dBHS in Europe, and (iii) argue in 
favor of the business case for dBHS in Europe.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100098
PMCID: PMC12183968
PMID: 40102145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Giovanni B. 
Frisoni has received funding through the Private Foundation of Geneva University 
Hospitals from: A.P.R.A. – Association Suisse pour la Recherche sur la Maladie 
d'Alzheimer, Genève; Fondation Segré, Genève; Ivan Pictet, Genève; Race Against 
Dementia Foundation, London, UK; Fondation Child Care, Genève; Fondation Edmond 
J. Safra, Genève; Fondation Minkoff, Genève; Fondazione Agusta, Lugano; McCall 
Macbain Foundation, Canada; Nicole et René Keller, Genève; Fondation AETAS, 
Genève. GBF has received funding through the University of Geneva or Geneva 
University Hospitals: for IISSs from ROCHE Pharmaceuticals, OM Pharma, EISAI 
Pharmaceuticals, Biogen Pharmaceuticals and Novo Nordisk; for competitive 
research projects from: H2020, Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), IMI2, 
Swiss National Science Foundation, and VELUX Foundation; for consulting from: 
Biogen, Diadem, Novo Nordisk, and Roche; for honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from: 
Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisk, and GE HealthCare. Federica Ribaldi is funded in 
part by the Swiss National Science Foundation under grant agreement 
320,030_182,772: Brain connectivity and metacognition in persons with subjective 
cognitive decline (COSCODE). Gilles Allali is supported by the Swiss National 
Science Foundation (grant# 214,855), the Leenaards Foundation, the Solis 
Foundation, the Empiris Foundation and the Synapsis Foundation. GA serves as a 
scientific advisor for Roche and Lilly and received speaker's fees from Schwabe 
and Lilly. Andrea Brioschi Guevara has received funding from the Swiss Health 
Promotion foundation, Leenaards foundation, Dragon Bleu and Floshield 
foundations. Kristian Steen Frederiksen serves on an advisory board for Novo 
Nordisk and Eisai AD with compensation paid to his institution. KSF has been an 
invited speaker for Novo Nordisk and Lundbeck A/S with compensation paid to his 
institution. KSF has served as associate editor since 2023 and is the incoming 
Editor-in-Chief for Alzheimer´s Research & Therapy. Jean Georges has received 
funding for the EURO-FINGERS project which is supported through the following 
funding organisations under the aegis of JPND www.jpnd.eu: Finland, Academy of 
Finland; Germany, Federal Ministry of Education and Research; Spain, National 
Institute of Health Carlos III; Luxembourg, National Research Fund; Hungary, 
National Research, Development and Innovation Office; Netherlands, Netherlands 
Organisation for Health Research and Development; Sweden, Swedish Research 
Council. Grant agreement: INTER/JPND/19/BM/14,012,609. Frank Jessen has received 
fees for advisory boards and speaker fees from: AC immune, Biogen, Cogthera, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, GE Healthcare, Grifols, Janssen, Novo Nordisk, Roche. Giacomo 
Koch has received funding (competitive grants) not related to the current 
manuscript from the Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation (ADDF), European 
Commission Horizon 2020, Italian Ministry Of Health, Italian Ministry of 
Education (MIUR), Brightfocus Foundation. GK also received funding from PIAM 
farmaceutici Spa and Epitech Group. GK is scientific co-founder and holds stocks 
of Sinaptica Therapeutics. GK has received payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from: 
Epitech, Roche, Novo Nordisk. GK has a patent on “combination drug formulations 
including rotigotine and an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor for the treatment of 
neurodegenerative diseases” (20,220,040,148) and another on “systems and methods 
for providing personalized targeted non-invasive stimulation to a brain network” 
(20,230,381,512). Lutz Frölich is an investigator in clinical trials sponsored 
by Axon Neuroscience, Anavex, Alector, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eisai, Hummingbird, 
NovoNordisk, Noselab and serves on an advisory board for Biogen, BioVie, Eisai, 
Grifols, Janssen Cilag, Neurimmune, Noselab, NovoNordisk, Roche, TauRX, Schwabe 
with personal compensation. LF has received honoraria for Clinical Study 
Committees from Avanir/Otsuka, PharmatrophiX, Charité Berlin, Neuroscios, 
Vivoryon. Valentina Garibotto is supported by the Swiss national science 
foundation (project n.320030_185,028 and 320,030_169,876), the Aetas Foundation, 
the Schmidheiny Foundation, the Velux Foundation, the Synapsis foundation, the 
Fondation privée des HUG. VG received support for research and speakers‘fees 
from Siemens Healthineers, GE HealthCare, Janssen, Novo Nordisk, all paid to her 
institution. Oriol Grau-Rivera is supported by the Spanish Ministry of Science, 
Innovation and Universities (IJC2020–043,417-I), receives research support from 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Roche 
Diagnostics. Ayda Rostamzadeh has received fees from Eisai for presentations. 
Wiesje M. van der Flier has been funded by ZonMW, NWO, EU-FP7, EU-JPND, 
Alzheimer Nederland, Hersenstichting CardioVascular Onderzoek Nederland, Health 
Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health, stichting Dioraphte, Gieskes-Strijbis 
fonds, stichting Equilibrio, Edwin Bouw fonds, Pasman stichting, stichting 
Alzheimer & Neuropsychiatrie Foundation, Philips, Biogen MA Inc, Novartis-NL, 
Life-MI, AVID, Roche BV, Fujifilm, Combinostics. WvdF holds the Pasman chair. 
WvdF has performed contract research for Biogen MA Inc, and Boehringer 
Ingelheim. WvdF has been an invited speaker at Boehringer Ingelheim, Biogen MA 
Inc, DaThe authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests 
or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work 
reported in this paper.


80. Biosci Trends. 2025 May 9;19(2):189-201. doi: 10.5582/bst.2025.01065. Epub
2025  Mar 18.

Exosomes derived from olfactory mucosa mesenchymal stem cells attenuate 
cognitive impairment in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Hu X(1), Ma YN(1), Peng J(1), Wang Z(1), Liang Y(1), Xia Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Haikou Affiliated Hospital of Central South 
University Xiangya School of Medicine, Haikou, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by cognitive decline, neuroinflammation, and endoplasmic reticulum 
(ER) stress. In recent years, exosomes have garnered significant attention as a 
potential therapeutic tool for neurodegenerative diseases. This study, for the 
first time, investigates the neuroprotective effects of exosomes derived from 
olfactory mucosa mesenchymal stem cells (OM-MSCs-Exos) in AD and further explore 
the potential role of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) 
in this process. Using an Aβ1-42-induced AD mouse model, we observed that 
OM-MSCs-Exos significantly improved cognitive function in behavioral tests, 
reduced neuroinflammatory responses, alleviated ER stress, and decreased 
neuronal apoptosis. Further analysis revealed that OM-MSCs-Exos exert 
neuroprotective effects by modulating the activation of microglia and astrocytes 
and influencing the ER stress response, a process that may involve LRP1. 
Although these findings support the potential neuroprotective effects of 
OM-MSCs-Exos, further studies are required to explore their long-term stability, 
dose dependency, and immunogenicity to assess their feasibility for clinical 
applications.

DOI: 10.5582/bst.2025.01065
PMID: 40101983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Neuroscience. 2025 May 7;573:96-103. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.03.026.
 Epub 2025 Mar 16.

Evaluation of AAV transduction efficiency via multiple delivery routes: Insights 
from peripheral and central nervous system analysis.

Lee NK(1), Na DL(2), Kim JW(3), Lee B(3), Kim HJ(4), Jang H(5), Lee J(6), Chang 
JW(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, 06355, Republic of Korea; Cell and Gene Therapy Institute (CGTI), 
Research Institute for Future Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, 06351, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
06351, Republic of Korea; Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, 
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul 06351, Republic of Korea; 
Happymind Clinic, Seoul 06061, Republic of Korea.
(3)AAV R&D Center, GENIXCURE Inc., Suwon 16229, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, 06355, Republic of Korea; Cell and Gene Therapy Institute (CGTI), 
Research Institute for Future Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, 06351, Republic 
of Korea; Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical 
Center, 06351, Republic of Korea; Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical 
Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul 06351, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Digital Health, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan University, 06355, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul 03080, 
Republic of Korea.
(6)Cell and Gene Therapy Institute (CGTI), Research Institute for Future 
Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, 06351, Republic of Korea; Department of 
Pediatrics, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul 06351, Republic of Korea.
(7)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, 06355, Republic of Korea; Cell and Gene Therapy Institute (CGTI), 
Research Institute for Future Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, 06351, Republic 
of Korea; Cell & Gene Therapy Research Institute, ENCell Co. Ltd., Seoul, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: changjw@skku.edu.

This study evaluates the biodistribution and transduction efficiency of 
adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9) vectors administered via 
intracerebroventricular (ICV), intra-arterial (IA), and intravenous (IV) routes 
in a murine model. Quantitative assessments of green fluorescent protein (GFP) 
expression were conducted to compare transduction efficacy across central 
nervous system (CNS) and peripheral tissues. The results demonstrate that 
high-dose ICV administration resulted in robust GFP expressions in the 
hippocampus and fimbria, indicating effective CNS targeting. Conversely, when 
administered intravenously (IV), the distribution of the drug was more 
widespread, affecting peripheral organs such as the liver and lungs, with 
limited penetration of the CNS. IA delivery achieved a balanced distribution, 
facilitating moderate transduction in both CNS and peripheral tissues. These 
findings underscore the significance of selecting appropriate administration 
routes to optimize AAV-mediated gene delivery for specific therapeutic targets. 
The study also underscores the necessity for quantitative analyses to accurately 
assess transduction efficiencies, informing the development of targeted gene 
therapies for neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.03.026
PMID: 40101893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: [J.W.C is an employee of ENCell 
Co., Ltd. ENCell Co., Ltd. was not involved in the study design, collection, 
analysis, interpretation of data, the writing of this article, or the decision 
to submit it for publication. J.W.K and B.W.L are currently employed by 
GENIXCURE Inc. AAV vectors were supplied by GENIXCURE Inc. GENIXCURE Inc. did 
not have any additional role in data collection, analysis, decision to publish, 
or preparation of the manuscript. All other authors declare that they have no 
conflicts of interest.].


82. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Apr 9;345:119642. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119642. Epub
 2025 Mar 16.

Shuangxia Decoction attenuates sleep disruption in 5×FAD mice through 
neuroinflammation inhibition: An integrative analysis of transcriptomic and 
molecular biology investigations.

Wang J(1), Pan H(2), Tang H(3), Zhang J(3), Li T(3), Liu Y(3), Huang Y(4), Fei 
Z(5), Wang Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chinese Medicine & Integrative Medicine, Shanghai Geriatric 
Medical Center, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, 2560 Chunshen Road, 
Shanghai, 201104, China; Department of Chinese Medicine & Integrative Medicine, 
Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 201104, China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Shuguang Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 201203, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Shuguang Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 201203, China.
(4)Endocrinology Department of Shanghai Municipal Hospital of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 
200071, China.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Shuguang Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 201203, China. Electronic 
address: tommyfei@126.com.
(6)Department of Neurology, Shuguang Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 201203, China. Electronic address: 
yummy0326@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative 
disease characterized by memory and learning deficits. Circadian rhythm 
disruption-induced sleep disruption is frequently observed in AD patients. The 
Shuangxia Decoction (SXD) comprising Pinellia ternata (Thunb.) Breit. (Banxia) 
and Prunella vulgaris L. (Xiakucao), has been effectively used to treate sleep 
disruption for thousands of years. However, the mechanisms by which SXD treated 
AD through circadian rhythm-related pathways remain unexplored.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: This research sought to determine the efficacy, mechanisms, 
and active compounds of SXD in AD treatment via an integrative approach.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a chronic jet lag (CJL) protocol in 
wild-type (WT) mice and monitored their rest/activity to compare their 
rest/activity period among WT, CJL, and CJD + SXD groups. In addition, we 
evaluated the impact of SXD on the cognitive and Aβ burden of 5 × FAD mice by 
behavioral tests and Thioflavin staining. The underlying pathway analysis of SXD 
was revealed through transcriptomic and biology experimental validation. The 
active compounds of SXD were further analyzed using the UPLC-MS, molecular 
docking, and cellular thermal shift assay (CESTA).
RESULTS: Our study demonstrated a rapid recovery of rest/activity period in CJL 
mice following SXD treatment. Additionally, SXD treatment alleviated Aβ plaque 
accumulation, subsequently preserving cognitive behavior and motor ability in 
5 × FAD mice. Moreover, SXD significantly enhanced neuronal synaptic plasticity 
dendritic plasticity in CA1 neurons of 5 × FAD mice. Transcriptomic analysis 
showed upregulation of the neuroinflammation-related pathway in 5 × FAD mice. 
Subsequent heatmap analysis indicated a suppression of inflammatory factor 
secretion (Cd68, Trem2, IL-6, IL-1β, Cxc3r1, Tnf et al.) and an increase of 
anti-inflammatory factor secretion (IL4, Ccl19, Ccl21a et al.) following SXD 
treatment in the 5 × FAD mice. Meanwhile, SXD upregulated positive regulators 
involved in the circadian rhythm like Bmal1 and Clock, and downregulated 
negative regulators like Nr1d1. Moreover, microglia exhibited an amoeboid 
morphology characterized by few processes and rounded cell bodies in 5 × FAD 
mice, whereas the age-matched SXD group maintained microglia with a ramified 
appearance. Additionally, our study identified 20 major components of SXD and 
identified 3-(3,4-Dihydroxyphenyl) lactic acid, Salviaflaside, and 
Ilexhainanoside D for further molecular docking with REV-ERBα (NR1D1), a 
commonly used circadian target. Salviaflaside further showed a strong bind with 
REV-ERBα via CESTA.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that SXD may rescue circadian rhythm in 
5 × FAD mice through specifically binding to REV-ERBα in microglia to activate 
the BMAL1/CLOCK pathway, thus inhibiting transcription of inflammatory factors, 
contributing to alleviating neuroinflammation and impeding AD progression. Our 
results offer a scientific foundation for developing SXD-based therapies in the 
early stage of AD, where sleep disruption precedes cognitive decline, offering 
potential leads for clinical trials to improve sleep quality thus delaying 
neurodegeneration in AD patients.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119642
PMID: 40101857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


83. Neuroimage Clin. 2025;46:103765. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2025.103765. Epub 2025
Mar  10.

A practical overview of the use of amyloid-PET Centiloid values in clinical 
trials and research.

Iaccarino L(1), Burnham SC(2), Tunali I(3), Wang J(4), Navitsky M(5), Arora 
AK(6), Pontecorvo MJ(7).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA; 
Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A., Sesto Fiorentino FI 50019, Italy. Electronic address: 
iaccarino_leonardo@lilly.com.
(2)Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. 
Electronic address: burnham_samantha@lilly.com.
(3)Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. 
Electronic address: tunali_ilke@lilly.com.
(4)Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. 
Electronic address: wang_jian_wj@lilly.com.
(5)Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. 
Electronic address: navitsky@lilly.com.
(6)Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. 
Electronic address: arora@lilly.com.
(7)Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. 
Electronic address: pontecorvo@lilly.com.

The density of brain amyloid-beta neuritic plaque accumulation, a marker of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), can be visualized and quantified using 
amyloid-positron emission tomography (PET). Amyloid-PET data can be obtained 
using different tracers and methodologies; therefore, comparison across studies 
can be difficult. The introduction of Centiloids in 2015 allowed for the 
transformation of amyloid-PET quantitative data to a common scale, enhancing 
comparability across studies and potentially enabling pooled analysis. Since 
then, Centiloid values have been used increasingly in research and clinical 
trials for multiple purposes, being tested and validated with a variety of 
clinical, biomarker and pathological standards of truth. In clinical trials, 
Centiloid values have been used for patient selection, to confirm the presence 
of AD pathology, as well as for treatment monitoring, especially in trials of 
disease-modifying treatments such as amyloid-targeting therapies. Building on 
their widespread adoption, Centiloid values are increasingly being integrated 
into commercially available software solutions for quantifying amyloid-PET, 
paving the way for real-world applications at the community level. This article 
addresses frequently asked questions about Centiloid definition, implementation, 
interpretation, and caveats, and also summarizes the available literature on 
published thresholds, ultimately supporting wider access and informed use of 
Centiloid values in Alzheimer's disease research.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2025.103765
PMCID: PMC11960669
PMID: 40101674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: All authors are employees of, and 
own shares in, Eli Lilly and Company.


84. Medicine (Baltimore). 2025 Mar 14;104(11):e41694. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000041694.

Traditional Chinese medicine as a viable option for managing vascular cognitive 
impairment: A ray of hope.

Liu D(1)(2), Zhao Y(1), Liu R(3), Qiao B(2), Lu X(4), Bei Y(5), Niu Y(6), Yang 
X(7).

Author information:
(1)College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shandong Second Medical University, 
Weifang, China.
(2)Department of Pain, Heze Municipal Hospital, Heze, China.
(3)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Weifang People's Hospital, 
Weifang, China.
(4)College of Medical, Shandong Yingcai University, Jinan, China.
(5)Shandong Jiaotong College Hospital, Jinan, China.
(6)Department of Endocrinology, People's Hospital of Dingtao District, Heze, 
China.
(7)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Shandong First Medical University and Shandong Provincial Qianfoshan Hospital, 
Jinan, China.

Vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) is a prevalent cognitive disorder resulting 
from cerebrovascular disease and encompasses a spectrum of cognitive deficits, 
ranging from mild impairment to vascular dementia (VD). VCI is responsible for a 
minimum of 20% to 40% of all cases of dementia, with its prevalence ranking 
second only to Alzheimer's disease on a global scale. The pathogenesis of VCI is 
complex and includes a lack of cholinergic nerve cells, inflammation, oxidative 
stress, alterations in the blood-brain barrier, and cell apoptosis. Current 
guideline-recommended drugs have unsatisfactory therapeutic effects. However, 
traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has long been associated with treating 
dementia, and numerous studies regarding treating dementia with TCM have been 
conducted. The etiology and pathogenesis of VaD are linked to deficiencies in 
the spleen and kidney, as well as phlegm turbidity. Treatment involves 
benefiting the spleen and kidney, improving blood circulation, removing blood 
stasis, and dispelling phlegm. Moreover, TCM presents benefits such as few 
adverse effects, low cost, long-term use suitability, and preventive effects. 
This review outlines the pathogenesis of VCI in both modern medicine and TCM, 
examines traditional prescriptions and single-agent ingredients with their 
pharmacological effects, emphasizes TCM's unique features, and explores its 
multi-targeted approach to treating VCI.

Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000041694
PMCID: PMC11922442
PMID: 40101029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


85. PLoS One. 2025 Mar 18;20(3):e0319866. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0319866. 
eCollection 2025.

Parthenolide regulates microglial and astrocyte function in primary cultures 
from ALS mice and has neuroprotective effects on primary motor neurons.

Thau-Habermann N(1), Gschwendtberger T(1), Bodemer C(1), Petri S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(2)Center for Systems Neuroscience (ZSN), Hannover, Germany.

Over the last twenty years, the role of microgliosis and astrocytosis in the 
pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases has increasingly been recognized. 
Dysregulation of microglial and astrocyte properties and function has been 
described also in the fatal degenerative motor neuron disease amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS). Microglia cells, the immune cells of the nervous 
system, can either have an immunonegative neurotoxic or immunopositive 
neuroprotective phenotype. The feverfew plant (Tanacetum parthenium) derived 
compound parthenolide has been found to be capable of interfering with 
microglial phenotype and properties. Positive treatment effects were shown in 
animal models of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease and 
Parkinson's disease. Now we were able to show that PTL has a modulating effect 
on primary mouse microglia cells, both wild type and SOD1, causing them to adopt 
a more neuroprotective potential. Furthermore, we were able to show that PTL, 
through its positive effect on microglia, also has an indirect positive impact 
on motor neurons, although PTL itself has no direct effect on these primary 
motor neurons. The results of our study give reason to consider PTL as a drug 
candidate for ALS.

Copyright: © 2025 Thau-Habermann et al. This is an open access article 
distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which 
permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided 
the original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0319866
PMCID: PMC11918366
PMID: 40100917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Susanne Petri has received grants from the 
German Neuromuscular Society, the Federal Ministry of Education and Research, 
the German Israeli Foundation for Scientific Research and Development, and the 
EU Joint Programme for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, and received 
consultant/speaker fees from Biogen, Roche, Amylyx, Zambon, Cytokinetics, 
Desitin Pharma, and Italfarmaco, outside of the submitted work. This does not 
alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


86. IEEE J Biomed Health Inform. 2025 Mar 18;PP. doi: 10.1109/JBHI.2025.3552536. 
Online ahead of print.

scDrugLink: Single-Cell Drug Repurposing for CNS Diseases via Computationally 
Linking Drug Targets and Perturbation Signatures.

Huang L, Lu X, Chen D.

Central nervous system (CNS) diseases such as glioblastoma (GBM), multiple 
sclerosis (MS), and Alzheimer's disease (AD) remain challenging due to their 
complexity and limited treatments. Conventional drug repurposing strategies 
often rely on bulk RNA sequencing data, which can overlook cellular 
heterogeneity and mask rare but critical cell populations. Here, we introduce 
scDrugLink, a computational method that integrates single-cell transcriptomic 
data with drug targets and perturbation signatures to improve repurposing. For 
each cell type, scDrugLink constructs a Drug2Cell matrix based on drug targets 
to estimate promotion/inhibition scores and derives sensitivity/resistance 
scores by reverse matching signatures and disease-associated genes. These scores 
are then "linked," yielding robust therapeutic rankings. In our study, we 
present a systematic evaluation of single-cell drug repurposing methods for CNS 
diseases. Applied to atlas data for GBM, MS, and AD, scDrugLink surpassed three 
state-of-the-art methods (ASGARD, DrugReSC, and scDrugPrio), achieving area 
under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) ranges of 0.6286-0.7242 
and area under the precision-recall curve (AUPRC) ranges of 0.3412-0.5484. It 
also ranked top when comparing AUC and AUPRC at the level of individual cell 
types. Moreover, applying the "linking" principle to baseline methods boosted 
their performance, on average improving AUC and AUPRC by 0.0160 and 0.0244, 
respectively. Despite the advancements, the complexity and heterogeneity of CNS 
diseases, along with incomplete drug data, indicate that further improvement is 
necessary. We discuss these challenges and suggest directions for enhancing 
single-cell drug repurposing in the future.

DOI: 10.1109/JBHI.2025.3552536
PMID: 40100675


87. Age Ageing. 2025 Mar 3;54(3):afaf058. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afaf058.

Association of low bone mineral density and dementia in older women: insights 
from the Longevity Improvement and Fair Evidence Study.

Kawaguchi K(1)(2), Maeda M(1), Murata F(1), Nakashima Y(2), Fukuda H(1).

Author information:
(1)Kyushu University, Department of Health Care Administration and Management, 
3-1-1, Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
(2)Kyushu University, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 3-1-1, Maidashi, 
Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Both osteoporosis and dementia have emerged as important public 
health challenges in Japan's aging population. This study aimed to investigate 
the impact of low bone mineral density (BMD) on the subsequent risk of dementia 
in older Japanese women aged ≥65 years, given the overlapping demographics of 
individuals affected by these two conditions.
METHODS: This cohort study was conducted using osteoporosis screening data and 
insurance claims data from a municipality. We identified 8618 women (median age: 
73 years) who underwent osteoporosis screening between April 2019 and March 
2021. Participants with a BMD <80% of the young adult mean were assigned to a 
low-BMD group (n = 2297), whereas those with a BMD ≥80% were assigned to a 
control group (n = 6321). The study outcomes were new-onset all-cause dementia 
and Alzheimer's disease (AD). To estimate the risk of low BMD on these outcomes, 
we constructed Cox proportional hazards models that adjusted for covariates 
(age, care needs, year of cohort entry, comorbidities and medications) using 
inverse probability of treatment weighting.
RESULTS: The low-BMD group had a significantly higher risk of developing both 
all-cause dementia (adjusted hazard ratio: 1.58, 95% confidence interval: 
1.20-2.08) and AD (1.61, 1.11-2.36) than the control group over approximately 
30 months of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that low BMD is associated with medium-term 
onset of dementia. Osteoporosis screenings could be useful not only for the 
secondary prevention of osteoporosis, but also for the primary prevention of 
dementia.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afaf058
PMID: 40100148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Electrophoresis. 2025 Apr;46(7-8):452-461. doi: 10.1002/elps.8135. Epub 2025
Mar  18.

Pharmacokinetics, Tissue Distribution, and Excretion of 9-Methylfascaplysin, a 
Potential Anti-Alzheimer's Disease Agent.

Zhang M(1), Xu Y(2), Sun X(3), Shi X(2), Liang H(4), Chen X(5), Cui W(5), Fan 
Y(6), Ma J(7), Wang H(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Rehabilitation Medicine, Department of Neurology, Zhejiang 
Provincial People's Hospital, Affiliated People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical 
College, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Drug Monitoring and Control of Zhejiang Province, National 
Narcotics Laboratory Zhejiang Regional Center, Hangzhou, China.
(3)School of Mathematical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(4)School of Materials Science and Chemical Engineering, Ningbo University, 
Ningbo, China.
(5)Ningbo Key Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, Zhejiang Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Pathophysiology, School of Medicine, Ningbo University, Ningbo, 
China.
(6)The Department of Criminal Science and Technology, Zhejiang Police College, 
Hangzhou, China.
(7)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, The Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.

9-Methylfascaplysin, a derivative of the marine natural product fascaplysin, has 
shown promising anti- Alzheimer's disease (AD) potential through its 
anti-β-amyloid (Aβ) neuroprotective effects. However, the pharmacokinetics (PK) 
of 9-methylfascaplysin, crucial for its preclinical evaluation, have not been 
thoroughly studied. In this study, we developed and validated a sensitive and 
accurate ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry 
(UPLC-MS/MS) method for the quantification of 9-methylfascaplysin in rat plasma. 
The method demonstrated a lower limit of detection (LLOD) of 1 ng/mL and a 
linear quantification range of 5-2000 ng/mL. The PK study in rat plasma was 
conducted. After intragastric administration, the plasma concentration of 
9-methylfascaplysin peaked at a maximum concentration (Cmax) of 193.4 ng/m and 
an enterohepatic circulation (EHC) phenomenon was observed. By comparing the 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) values obtained from 
intragastric and intravenous administrations, the absolute oral bioavailability 
(F) of 9-methylfascaplysin was determined as 18.3%. The tissue distribution 
study revealed that following a single intragastric administration, 
9-methylfascaplysin was most concentrated in the stomach, followed by the small 
intestine, large intestine, liver, kidney, brain, lung, spleen, and heart in 
descending order. Furthermore, the excretion profiles of 9-methylfascaplysin in 
rat urine and feces were studied. The results of this study provide valuable 
insights into the PK behavior of 9-methylfascaplysin and serve as a foundation 
for its further preclinical evaluation and potential clinical application as an 
anti-AD agent.

© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/elps.8135
PMID: 40099706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. West J Nurs Res. 2025 Jun;47(6):503-509. doi: 10.1177/01939459251325719. Epub
 2025 Mar 18.

Why is it Difficult to Recruit/Retain Asian American Family Caregivers in a 
Virtual Intervention?

Chee W(1), Ryu S(2), Quan J(2), Kim D(2), Im EO(2).

Author information:
(1)The University of Texas at Austin, College of Education, Austin, TX, USA.
(2)The University of Texas at Austin, School of Nursing, Austin, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: Virtual interventions using computers and mobile devices have 
increasingly been developed and tested among racial and ethnic minorities in 
recent years. Yet, few virtual interventions have been developed for Asian 
American midlife women who are family caregivers of persons living with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Furthermore, little is known about the feasibility of 
recruiting this specific group of racial/ethnic minority midlife women to a 
virtual intervention study.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this paper is to discuss practical issues in 
recruiting and retaining this specific group of racial/ethnic minority midlife 
women for a virtual intervention study.
METHODS: The ongoing parent study is to develop and test a preliminary version 
of a virtual intervention for this specific population. During the research 
process, the research team had regular meetings to have discussions on 
recruitment and retention issues and each team member wrote research diaries. A 
content analysis was conducted with the written records including the research 
team's research diaries and meeting minutes.
RESULTS: The issues were: (1) an extremely small pool of Asian American midlife 
women who were family caregivers of persons living with AD; (2) competitions 
with other studies, (3) practicality of inclusion/exclusion criteria, (4) lack 
of time and interests in research participation, and (5) negative perception of 
small monetary incentives.
CONCLUSION: Future researchers need to consider the unique cultural and social 
dynamics of this specific population, foster trusted connections with the 
communities before initiating the study, and obtain feedback from potential 
gatekeepers and the communities in advance.

DOI: 10.1177/01939459251325719
PMCID: PMC12069824
PMID: 40099354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


90. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Mar 3;17:1543282. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1543282.
 eCollection 2025.

Modulated theta band frequency with binaural beat stimulation correlates with 
improved cognitive scores in Alzheimer's patients.

Mujib MD(1), Rao AZ(1)(2), Haque MFU(3), Alokaily AO(4)(5), Hussain SS(1), 
Aldohbayb AA(4)(5), Qazi SA(6)(7), Hasan MA(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, NED University of Engineering & 
Technology, Karachi, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, McGovern Medical School, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, United 
States.
(3)Department of Telecommunication Engineering, NED University of Engineering & 
Technology, Karachi, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Biomedical Technology, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(5)King Salman Center for Disability Research, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Electrical Engineering, NED University of Engineering & 
Technology, Karachi, Pakistan.
(7)Neurocomputation Lab, National Center of Artificial Intelligence, NED 
University of Engineering & Technology, Karachi, Pakistan.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects 50 million individuals worldwide, 
a number projected to triple by 2050. Due to discomfort through electrical and 
magnetic neuromodulation technologies, this is the first study to propose the 
potential of auditory binaural beat (BB) stimulation at an alpha frequency (10 
Hz) for enhancing cognitive and neurological outcomes in AD patients.
METHODS: Twenty-five patients were divided into the experimental-Group (n = 15) 
and control-Group (n = 10). Psychometric and neurological assessments were 
conducted Pre-Treatment (Day 1) and Post-Treatment (Day 14) following 
consecutive days of binaural beats (BB) or auditory tone stimulation 
administered from Day 2 to Day 13.
RESULTS: A two-way ANOVA revealed a significant main effect of group (F = 6.087, 
p = 0.016) and session (F = 3.859, p = 0.024) on MMSE scores, with the 
experimental group showing significant improvement in MMSE scores (t = 7.33, p = 
0.00000012) compared to the control group (p = 0.2306). Paired t-tests revealed 
a significant reduction in depression scores (DASS-21, t = 1.701, p = 0.0253) in 
the experimental group, while no significant improvements were noted in the 
control group. EEG recordings revealed significant changes in α-band, β-band, 
and γ-band power (p < 0.05). Moreover, The correlation between EEG bands and 
MMSE subparts showed that increased θ-band power in the experimental group was 
positively correlated (p < 0.05) with the frontal region during language tasks 
and in the frontal and central regions during registration and orientation 
tasks, indicating potential neurocognitive benefits.
DISCUSSION: The results of this research imply that BB stimulation has untapped 
potential as a non-invasive therapy for patients with AD, hence there is the 
need for further studies to manage the dementia epidemic.

Copyright © 2025 Mujib, Rao, Haque, Alokaily, Hussain, Aldohbayb, Qazi and 
Hasan.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1543282
PMCID: PMC11911351
PMID: 40099247

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


91. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Mar 3;16:1496061. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1496061. 
eCollection 2025.

SysNatMed: rational natural medicine discovery by systems genetics.

Ye CQ(#)(1)(2)(3), Leng J(#)(3), Jin MY(1), Meng YD(3), Zhao ZY(3), Meng FX(3), 
Xu X(4), Fan SS(3), Luo HB(1)(3), Meng XY(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Hubei Key Laboratory of Biological Resources Protection and Utilization, 
Hubei Minzu University, Enshi, China.
(2)Xiangyang Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine and Xiangyang Institute of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Xiangyang, China.
(3)Health Science Center, Hubei Minzu University, Enshi, China.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.
(5)Hubei Provincial Clinical Medical Research Center for Nephropathy, Hubei 
Minzu University, Enshi, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Although acknowledged as an important complement to modern medicine, 
the utility of natural medicine (NM) remains under-exploited. We aimed to 
develop a novel data-driven approach for natural medicine discovery.
METHODS: GWAS summary statistics of disease (Alzheimer's disease, i.e., AD, for 
the case study) and quantitative trait loci were collected from public sources. 
The ranking of disease-gene associations was established using summary-based 
Mendelian randomization. The comprehensive hierarchical relationships among 
ingredients, natural products, and target genes were compiled from the 
BATMAN-TCM v2.0 database. Based on the ranking of disease-gene associations and 
the comprehensive hierarchical relationships among ingredients, natural 
products, and target genes, we prioritized NM ingredients as potential 
candidates for AD management and examined the efficacy for AD prevention using 
rat AD models.
RESULTS: We developed a non-trivial transparent data-driven framework for 
systems genetics-based NM discovery. Among the 139 prioritized candidates for AD 
management, we demonstrated the efficacy of Dang Gui (Angelicae Sinensis Radix, 
ASR) and Dang Shen (Codonopsis Pilosula, CP) for AD prevention using rat models. 
Mechanistically, we showed that ASR may prevent AD-related damage through 
protection of neural cells, as well as inhibition of microglia, angiogenesis, 
inflammation, and extracellular matrices.
CONCLUSION: Our method holds potential for the development of new strategies of 
complementary medicine for disease treatment and prevention, especially for 
complex conditions involving a number of genes.

Copyright © 2025 Ye, Leng, Jin, Meng, Zhao, Meng, Xu, Fan, Luo and Meng.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1496061
PMCID: PMC11911470
PMID: 40098618

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


92. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Mar 3;16:1538601. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1538601. 
eCollection 2025.

The multiple biological activities of hyperoside: from molecular mechanisms to 
therapeutic perspectives in neoplastic and non-neoplastic diseases.

Zhang W(#)(1)(2), Wang R(#)(1)(2), Guo R(#)(1)(2), Yi Z(3), Wang Y(1)(2), Wang 
H(1)(2), Li Y(1)(2), Li X(4), Song J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Affiliated Hospital 6 of Nantong University, 
Yancheng Third People's Hospital, Yancheng, China.
(2)Medical School of Nantong University, Nantong, China.
(3)Central Laboratory, Affiliated Hospital 6 of Nantong University, Yancheng 
Third People's Hospital, Yancheng, China.
(4)Department of General Medicine, Affiliated Hospital 6 of Nantong University, 
Yancheng Third People's Hospital, Yancheng, China.
(#)Contributed equally

In recent years, hyperoside (quercetin 3-O-β-D-galactopyranoside) has garnered 
significant attention due to its diverse biological effects, which include 
vasoprotective, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-tumor properties. 
Notably, hyperoside has shown remarkable potential in cancer therapy by 
targeting multiple mechanisms; it induces apoptosis, inhibits proliferation, 
blocks angiogenesis, and reduces the metastatic potential of cancer cells. 
Furthermore, hyperoside enhances the sensitivity of cancer cells to chemotherapy 
by modulating key signaling pathways. Beyond neoplastic diseases, hyperoside 
also presents promising therapeutic applications in managing non-cancerous 
conditions such as diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, and pulmonary fibrosis. This 
review comprehensively examines the molecular mechanisms underlying hyperoside's 
anti-cancer effects and highlights its role in the treatment of cancers, 
including lung and colorectal cancers. Additionally, it explores the latest 
research on hyperoside's potential in addressing non-neoplastic conditions, such 
as pulmonary fibrosis, diabetes, and Parkinson's disease. By summarizing current 
findings, this review underscores the unique therapeutic value of hyperoside and 
its potential as a multifunctional treatment in both neoplastic and 
non-neoplastic contexts.

Copyright © 2025 Zhang, Wang, Guo, Yi, Wang, Wang, Li, Li and Song.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1538601
PMCID: PMC11911483
PMID: 40098612

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


93. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Mar 17;17(1):61. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01691-0.

Adherence and intensity in multimodal lifestyle-based interventions for 
cognitive decline prevention: state-of-the-art and future directions.

Soldevila-Domenech N(1)(2), Ayala-Garcia A(1), Barbera M(3)(4), Lehtisalo 
J(3)(5), Forcano L(1)(6), Diaz-Ponce A(7), Zwan M(8), van der Flier WM(8), 
Ngandu T(5)(9), Kivipelto M(4)(9)(10)(11), Solomon A(3)(4)(9), de la Torre 
R(12)(13)(14)(15).

Author information:
(1)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Dr. Aiguader 
88, Barcelona, 08003, Spain.
(2)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Wellington 30, Barcelona, 08003, Spain.
(3)Department of Neurology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of 
Eastern Finland, Yliopistonranta 1C, Kuopio, 70211, Finland.
(4)The Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial 
College London, Charing Cross Hospital, St Dunstan's Road, London, W6 8RP, UK.
(5)Population Health Unit, Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, 
Mannerheimintie 166, P.O. Box 30, Helsinki, Finland.
(6)CIBER de Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición, Instituto de Salud Carlos 
III, Av. Monforte de Lemos 3-5, Madrid, 28029, Spain.
(7)Alzheimer Europe, Sennengerbierg Nidderaanwen, Luxembourg City, 1736, 
Luxembourg.
(8)Alzheimer Center, Department of Neurology, Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, VU 
University Medical Center, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, 1081 HV, Netherlands.
(9)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department of 
Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institute, Karolinska Vägen 
37A, Solna, 171 64, Sweden.
(10)Medical Unit Aging, Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, D1: 04, 171 76, Sweden.
(11)Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, University of Eastern 
Finland, Yliopistonrinne 3, Kuopio, FI-70211, Finland.
(12)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neuroscience Research Group, 
Neuroscience Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute, Dr. Aiguader 
88, Barcelona, 08003, Spain. rtorre2@researchmar.net.
(13)CIBER de Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición, Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III, Av. Monforte de Lemos 3-5, Madrid, 28029, Spain. 
rtorre2@researchmar.net.
(14)Department of Medicine and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Dr 
Aiguader 80, Barcelona, 08003, Spain. rtorre2@researchmar.net.
(15)Neurosciences Research Program, Hospital del Mar Research Institute (HMRI), 
Dr Aiguader 88, Barcelona, 08003, Spain. rtorre2@researchmar.net.

Preventing dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a global priority. 
Multimodal interventions targeting several risk factors and disease mechanisms 
simultaneously are currently being tested worldwide under the World-Wide FINGERS 
(WW-FINGERS) network of clinical trials. Adherence to these interventions is 
crucial for their success, yet there is significant heterogeneity in adherence 
reporting across studies, hindering the understanding of adherence barriers and 
facilitators. This article is a narrative review of available evidence from 
multimodal dementia prevention trials. A literature search was conducted using 
medical databases (MEDLINE via PubMed and SCOPUS) to select relevant studies: 
nonpharmacological multimodal interventions (i.e., combining three or more 
intervention domains), targeting individuals without dementia, and using changes 
in cognitive performance and/or incident mild cognitive impairment or dementia 
as primary outcomes. Based on the findings, we propose future adherence 
reporting to encompass both participation (average attendance to each 
intervention component) and lifestyle change using dementia risk scores (e.g., 
the LIBRA index). Moreover, we provide an estimation of the expected intensity 
of multimodal interventions, defined as the ratio of the expected dose (i.e., 
the overall amount of the intervention offered specified in the trial protocol) 
to duration (in months). Adjusting the expected dose by average adherence 
enables estimation of the observed dose and intensity, which could be 
informative for identifying optimal dosage thresholds that maximize cognitive 
benefits across different populations. Finally, this article provides an 
overview of the determinants of adherence to multimodal interventions, 
emphasizing the need for improved adherence reporting to inform the design and 
implementation of precision prevention interventions.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01691-0
PMCID: PMC11912746
PMID: 40098201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


94. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Mar 18;20(1):31. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00822-3.

Alpha synuclein co-pathology is associated with accelerated amyloid-driven tau 
accumulation in Alzheimer's disease.

Franzmeier N(1)(2)(3), Roemer-Cassiano SN(4)(5), Bernhardt AM(5)(6), Dehsarvi 
A(4), Dewenter A(4), Steward A(4), Biel D(4), Frontzkowski L(4)(7), Zhu Z(4), 
Gnörich J(7), Pescoller J(4), Wagner F(4), Hirsch F(4), de Bruin H(4)(8)(9), 
Ossenkoppele R(8)(9)(10), Palleis C(5), Strübing F(11), Schöll 
M(12)(13)(14)(15), Levin J(#)(16)(5)(6), Brendel M(#)(16)(6)(7), Höglinger 
GU(#)(16)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research (ISD), University Hospital, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany. nicolai.franzmeier@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(2)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany. 
nicolai.franzmeier@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(3)The Sahlgrenska Academy, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Department 
of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal and 
Gothenburg, Sweden. nicolai.franzmeier@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(4)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research (ISD), University Hospital, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(5)Department of Neurology, LMU University Hospital, University Hospital, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(6)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(7)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(8)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(9)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(10)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(11)Center for Neuropathology and Prion Research, University Hospital, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(12)The Sahlgrenska Academy, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, 
Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal 
and Gothenburg, Sweden.
(13)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(14)Dementia Research Centre, Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK.
(15)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(16)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Aggregated alpha-Synuclein (αSyn) is a hallmark pathology in 
Parkinson's disease but also one of the most common co-pathologies in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Preclinical studies suggest that αSyn can exacerbate 
tau aggregation, implying that αSyn co-pathology may specifically contribute to 
the Aβ-induced aggregation of tau that drives neurodegeneration and cognitive 
decline in AD. To investigate this, we combined a novel CSF-based 
seed-amplification assay (SAA) to determine αSyn positivity with amyloid- and 
tau-PET neuroimaging in a large cohort ranging from cognitively normal 
individuals to those with dementia, examining whether αSyn co-pathology 
accelerates Aβ-driven tau accumulation and cognitive decline.
METHODS: In 284 Aβ-positive and 308 Aβ-negative subjects, we employed 
amyloid-PET, Flortaucipir tau-PET, and a CSF-based αSyn seed-amplification assay 
(SAA) to detect in vivo αSyn aggregation. CSF p-tau181 measures were available 
for 384 subjects to assess earliest tau abnormalities. A subset of 155 
Aβ-positive and 135 Aβ-negative subjects underwent longitudinal tau-PET over 
approximately 2.5 years. Using linear regression models, we analyzed whether 
αSyn SAA positivity was linked to stronger Aβ-related increases in baseline 
fluid and PET tau biomarkers, faster Aβ-driven tau-PET increase, and more rapid 
cognitive decline.
RESULTS: αSyn SAA positivity was more common in Aβ + vs. Aβ- subjects and 
increased with clinical severity (p < 0.001). Most importantly, αSyn positivity 
was also associated with greater amyloid-associated CSF p-tau181 increases 
(p = 0.005) and higher tau-PET levels in AD-typical brain regions (p = 0.006). 
Longitudinal analyses confirmed further that αSyn positivity was associated with 
faster amyloid-related tau accumulation (p = 0.029) and accelerated 
amyloid-related cognitive decline, potentially driven driven by stronger tau 
pathology.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that αSyn co-pathology, detectable via 
CSF-based SAAs, is more prevalent in advanced AD and contributes to the 
development of aggregated tau pathology thereby driving faster cognitive 
decline. This highlights that a-Syn co-pathology may specifically accelerate 
amyloid-driven tau pathophysiology in AD, underscoring the need to consider αSyn 
in AD research and treatment strategies.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00822-3
PMCID: PMC11916967
PMID: 40098057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All study procedures were conducted in accordance with the 
declaration of Helsinki, ethical approval was obtained by ADNI investigators. 
All study participants provided written informed consent. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: None.


95. Mol Brain. 2025 Mar 17;18(1):21. doi: 10.1186/s13041-025-01192-z.

Moderate ethanol exposure disrupts energy homesotasis between central and 
peripheral system in APP/PS1 mice.

Kang S(1)(2), Lee J(3)(4), Min PH(3), Choi DS(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, 
Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. ksw90@sch.ac.kr.
(2)Department of Pharmacology College of Medicine, Soonchunhyang University, 
Cheonan-si, 31151, Republic of Korea. ksw90@sch.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science, 
Rochester, MN, 55905, USA.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Medicine, Hanyang 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, 
Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. Choids@mayo.edu.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and 
Science, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. Choids@mayo.edu.

To investigate the effects of moderate ethanol exposure on glucose metabolism in 
APP/PS1 mice, an early-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse model, we employed 
an fluoro-deoxy-glucose (FDG)-micro-positron emission tomography (PET). We also 
utilized the comprehensive lab animal monitoring system (CLAMS) to measure 
whole-body energy expenditure and respiratory exchange ratio (RER). We found 
that ethanol exposure increased glucose metabolism in the brain as measured by 
FDG-PET. Also, CLAMS data indicated a decrease in RER, suggesting a shift toward 
fat utilization as the primary energy source. Following ethanol exposure in 
APP/PS1 mice, these findings reveal a distinct metabolic difference between 
brain and peripheral tissues.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13041-025-01192-z
PMCID: PMC11912666
PMID: 40098048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal experiments were approved by the Institutional Animal 
Care and Use Committee of the Mayo Clinic. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


96. Geroscience. 2025 Jun;47(3):5169-5183. doi: 10.1007/s11357-025-01598-6. Epub 
2025 Mar 17.

Frailty incidence by diabetes treatment regimens in older adults with diabetes 
mellitus in the ASPirin in Reducing Events in the Elderly Study.

Espinoza SE(1), Broder JC(2), Wolfe R(2), Ernst ME(3)(4), Shah RC(5)(6), Orchard 
SG(2), Woods RL(2), Ryan J(2), Murray A(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Center for Translational Geroscience, Diabetes and Aging Center, Department 
of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, 8700 Beverly Boulevard, Suite B113, 
Los Angeles, CA, 90048, USA. sara.espinoza@cshs.org.
(2)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 553 St 
Kilda Road, Melbourne, VIC, 3004, Australia.
(3)Department of Pharmacy Practice and Science, College of Pharmacy, University 
of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(4)Department of Family Medicine, Carver College of Medicine, University of 
Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(5)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, Rush University, Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(6)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(7)Berman Center for Outcomes & Clinical Research, Hennepin Healthcare Research 
Institute, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(8)Department of Medicine, Geriatrics Division, Hennepin Healthcare, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.

Diabetes mellitus is a major risk factor for frailty in older adults, and 
studies suggest that frailty risk may differ by diabetes treatment regimen. To 
investigate the association between diabetes medication use and frailty, we 
conducted an observational cohort analysis of older adults with diabetes 
enrolled in the ASPirin in Reducing Events in the Elderly (ASPREE) study. 
Diabetes at baseline (N = 2045) was defined as self-reported diabetes, fasting 
blood glucose levels > 125 mg/dL, or use of diabetes medication. Diabetes 
medication exposure at baseline was categorized as use of metformin only 
(monotherapy) (N = 545), metformin combined with other diabetes medications 
(N = 420), other diabetes medications only (N = 200), or no diabetes medications 
(N = 880). Frailty was defined using a modified Fried frailty phenotype 
(presence of ≥ 3 of 5 criteria) and a deficit accumulation frailty index 
(FI, score > 0.21/1.00). Mixed effects ordinal logistic regression models 
revealed the odds of frailty at baseline were highest for the other diabetes 
medications only group, but this difference remained consistent over follow-up. 
After adjustment for covariates, including baseline pre-frailty, no differences 
in the rates of Fried or FI frailty were observed among the diabetes medication 
exposure groups. These findings suggest that diabetes medication exposure in 
older adults with diabetes does not directly impact frailty risk.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-025-01598-6
PMCID: PMC12181461
PMID: 40097879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study was approved by local institutional review boards at each 
participating institution and was conducted according to the principles of the 
Declaration of Helsinki. All participants provided written informed consent 
prior to enrolment. The trial was registered with ClinicalTrials.org 
(NCT01038583) and ISRCTN83772183. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


97. Nat Aging. 2025 Apr;5(4):548-557. doi: 10.1038/s43587-025-00836-y. Epub 2025
Mar  17.

Absence of care among community-dwelling older adults with dementia and 
functional limitations.

Lin Z(#)(1)(2), Qian Y(#)(2), Gill TM(3), Hou X(4), Allore H(3)(5)(6), Chen 
S(7), Chen X(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy and Administration, School of Public Health, 
University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, Yale School of Public Health, New 
Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(4)The World Bank, Washington, DC, USA.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, CT, 
USA.
(6)Yale Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, New Haven, CT, USA.
(7)International Centre for Evidence in Disability, Department of Population 
Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. 
shanquan.chen@lshtm.ac.uk.
(8)Department of Health Policy and Management, Yale School of Public Health, New 
Haven, CT, USA. xi.chen@yale.edu.
(9)Yale Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, New Haven, CT, USA. 
xi.chen@yale.edu.
(10)Department of Economics, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA. 
xi.chen@yale.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Assistance with daily activities is crucial for persons living with dementia and 
functional limitations, yet many face substantial challenges in accessing 
adequate care and support. Using harmonized longitudinal survey data (2012-2018) 
from the United States, England, 18 European countries, Israel and China, we 
found that at least one-fifth of persons with dementia and functional 
limitations received no personal assistance for basic activities of daily living 
or instrumental activities of daily living, regardless of regional development 
level. Care gaps were widespread across both basic activities of daily living or 
instrumental activities of daily living limitations, as well as for informal and 
formal care. Disparities were evident, with less educated people more likely to 
lack formal care, whereas those living alone often lacked informal support, 
resulting in the absence of any care. Alarmingly, care availability showed no 
improvement over time. Our findings underscore the urgent need for policies to 
address inequities and ensure critical access to care services for this 
vulnerable population worldwide.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s43587-025-00836-y
PMCID: PMC12003173
PMID: 40097773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


98. Sci Rep. 2025 Mar 17;15(1):9144. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-94148-1.

Preclinical assessment of a ganglioside-targeted therapy for Parkinson's disease 
with the first-in-class adaptive peptide AmyP53.

Fantini J(1), Azzaz F(2), Aulas A(3), Chahinian H(2), Yahi N(2).

Author information:
(1)Aix Marseille Univ, INSERM UA16, Marseille, France. 
jacques.fantini@univ-amu.fr.
(2)Aix Marseille Univ, INSERM UA16, Marseille, France.
(3)AmyPore, Septèmes-les-Vallons, France.

Erratum in
    Sci Rep. 2025 Jul 3;15(1):23784. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-07762-4.

We propose a new concept for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), which 
considers that its root cause, α-synuclein, is an intrinsically disordered 
protein (IDP) difficult to target by classic approaches. Upon binding to lipid 
raft gangliosides, α-synuclein shifts from random coil to α-helix, forming 
Ca2+-permeable oligomeric pores triggering a neurotoxicity cascade. We used the 
α-synuclein-ganglioside interaction as guideline to design a therapeutic peptide 
(AmyP53) that combines the respective flexible ganglioside-binding domains of 
α-synuclein and Alzheimer's β-amyloid protein. AmyP53 is an adaptive peptide, 
the first representant of a new therapeutic class. It acts as a competitive 
inhibitor of α-synuclein oligomer formation in brain cell membranes and prevents 
subsequent downstream synaptotoxicity, including the loss of dopaminergic 
neurons in an animal α-synuclein injection model of PD. It is active against 
both wild-type and mutant forms of α-synuclein. AmyP53 is administered 
intranasally without side effects. This new concept "target the target 
(gangliosides), not the arrow (IDP)" is distinct from classic α-synuclein 
centric approaches that did not cure PD so far.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-94148-1
PMCID: PMC11914484
PMID: 40097723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: N.Y. and J.F. 
are co-inventors of the AmyP53 peptide (patent Application EP15709163.8 A), 
currently under development for the treatment of Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s 
diseases by the AmyPore company. H.C. is president of the Ethics and Scientific 
Committee of AmyPore. A.A. is the project leader of AmyPore. F.A. does not have 
any conflict of interest. All other authors have no competing interest.


99. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Jul 5;998:177520. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177520.
Epub  2025 Mar 15.

Exploring Alzheimer's disease treatment: Established therapies and novel 
strategies for future care.

Soni U(1), Singh K(2), Jain D(3), Pujari R(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences and Technology, Dr. Vishwanath Karad MIT World 
Peace University, Kothrud, Pune, 411023, Maharashtra, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, GLA 
University, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(3)Department of Microbiology, School of Applied and Life Sciences, Uttaranchal 
University, Dehradun, 248007, Uttarakhand, India.
(4)School of Health Sciences and Technology, Dr. Vishwanath Karad MIT World 
Peace University, Kothrud, Pune, 411023, Maharashtra, India. Electronic address: 
rohini.pujari@mitwpu.edu.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by a gradual decline in cognitive function, memory impairment, and 
alterations in behavior. As the predominant etiology of dementia, AD affects 
millions of individuals worldwide, with its hallmark pathological feature being 
the accumulation of amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques, which disrupt neuronal function 
and progressively compromise brain structure. Early clinical manifestations 
often include forgetfulness, disorientation, and social withdrawal. Primarily 
impacting the elderly population, AD significantly impairs daily functioning and 
diminishes overall quality of life. Current therapeutic approaches for AD mainly 
focus on symptomatic relief and decelerating the disease's progression. 
Cholinesterase inhibitors, such as donepezil and rivastigmine, increase 
acetylcholine (ACh) levels to enhance cognitive function in individuals with 
mild to moderate AD. For individuals in more advanced stages of the disease, 
NMDA receptor antagonists modulate glutamate activity to mitigate 
excitotoxicity. In addition to pharmacological interventions, lifestyle 
modifications such as adherence to a balanced diet, regular physical activity, 
and cognitive engagement are advocated to support brain health. Novel 
therapeutic avenues are being explored to address underlying pathophysiological 
mechanisms, such as metal ion dysregulation within the brain. Furthermore, 
non-pharmacological approaches, including cognitive-behavioral therapy and 
patient support groups, provide essential behavioral and emotional support. 
Cutting-edge research continues to investigate innovative treatments, such as 
immunotherapies targeting amyloid plaques and tau tangles and neuroprotective 
compounds derived from natural sources. The goal of these multifaceted 
strategies is to alleviate symptoms, enhance quality of life, and offer hope for 
individuals and families affected by AD. This review provides a comprehensive 
summary of both established and emerging therapeutic interventions for the 
management of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177520
PMID: 40097131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


100. Neurobiol Dis. 2025 May;208:106871. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106871. Epub
2025  Mar 15.

MicroRNA signature of lymphoblasts from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients 
as potential clinical biomarkers.

Cuevas EP(1), Madruga E(1), Valenzuela-Martínez I(2), Ramírez D(2), Gil C(1), 
Nagaraj S(3), Martin-Requero A(1), Martinez A(4).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Biológicas "Margarita Salas"-CSIC, Ramiro de Maeztu 
9, 28040 Madrid, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas, (CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Av. Monforte de 
Lemos, 3-5, 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Farmacología, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Universidad de 
Concepción, Chile.
(3)Alzheimer and other tauopathies research group, ULB Center for Diabetes 
Research, Medical Faculty, Université Libre de Bruxelles, ULB Neuroscience 
Institute, 808 route de Lennik, B-1070 Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Centro de Investigaciones Biológicas "Margarita Salas"-CSIC, Ramiro de Maeztu 
9, 28040 Madrid, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas, (CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Av. Monforte de 
Lemos, 3-5, 28029 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: ana.martinez@csic.es.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small, non-coding RNAs involved in different 
cellular functions that have emerged as key regulators of neurodegenerative 
diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). ALS is a fatal disease 
that lacks of not only effective treatments, but also presents delays in its 
diagnosis, since reliable clinical biomarkers are unavailable. In recent years, 
advancements in high-throughput sequencing strategies have led to the 
identification of novel ALS biomarkers, facilitating earlier diagnosis and 
assessment of treatment efficacy. Since immortalized lymphocytes obtained from 
peripheral blood are a suitable model to study pathological features of ALS, we 
employed these samples with the aim of characterize the dysregulated miRNAs in 
ALS patients. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) was utilized in order to analyze 
the expression profiles of miRNAs in immortalized lymphocytes from healthy 
controls, sporadic ALS (sALS), and familial ALS with mutations in superoxide 
dismutase 1 (SOD1-ALS). The screening analysis of the NGS data identified a set 
of dysregulated miRNAs, of which nine candidates were selected for qRT-PCR 
validation, identifying for the first time the possible importance of 
hsa-miR-6821-5p as a potential ALS biomarker. Furthermore, the up-regulated 
miRNAs identified are predicted to have direct or indirect interactions with 
genes closely related to ALS, such as SIGMAR1, HNRNPA1 and TARDBP. Additionally, 
by Metascape enrichment analysis, we found the VEGFA/VEGFR2 signaling pathway, 
previously implicated in neuroprotective effects in ALS, as a candidate pathway 
for further analyses.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106871
PMID: 40097075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.