1. Biomolecules. 2025 Apr 15;15(4):585. doi: 10.3390/biom15040585.

A Novel Phosphorylated Tau Conformer Implicated in the Tauopathy Pathogenesis of 
Human Neurons.

Tofigh N(1)(2), Agahi S(3), Riazi G(1), Ghalamkar Moazzam M(2), Shahpasand 
K(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuro-Organic Chemistry, Institute of Biochemistry and 
Biophysics (IBB), University of Tehran, Tehran 13561-457, Iran.
(2)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Cell Science Research Center, 
Royan Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Technology, ACECR, Tehran 16635-148, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran 14768-211, Iran.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Medical School, University 
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with no effective 
treatments. Hyperphosphorylation of tau protein contributes to neurodegeneration 
in AD. Previous studies have identified pT231-tau in the cis conformation as an 
early driver of neurodegeneration in tauopathy models. Here, we identify a novel 
neurotoxic pT231-tau conformer in human AD neurons, distinct from both cis and 
trans conformations, which we propose as the gauche pT231-tau conformer. 
Notably, levels of this conformer were elevated in neurons subjected to 
aging-associated stress. In order to confirm the stress, we examined p21 
accumulation in both human iPSC-derived and mouse cortical neurons under aging 
stress. Targeted elimination of the gauche pT231-tau conformer mitigated 
neurodegeneration in human AD cultures. These findings suggest the gauche 
pT231-tau conformer plays a key role in tau-mediated neurodegeneration and may 
be a potential therapeutic target for AD.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15040585
PMCID: PMC12025006
PMID: 40305319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


2. Biomolecules. 2025 Apr 7;15(4):543. doi: 10.3390/biom15040543.

Evaluation of the Effects of Thymoquinone on RAGE/NOX4 Expressions and Brain 
Tissue Morphometry in Experimental Alzheimer's Disease Induced by Amyloid Beta 
1-42 Peptide.

Ateş Ş(1)(2), Ülger H(1), Uçar S(1), Okan A(3), Ocak M(4), Güvenilir E(5), 
Şükranlı ZY(5), Kaymak E(3), Doğanyiğit Z(3), Taheri S(5)(6), Yilmaz S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Erciyes University, Kayseri 
38280, Turkey.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Yozgat Bozok University, Yozgat 
66100, Turkey.
(3)Department of Histology and Embryology, Faculty of Medicine, Yozgat Bozok 
University, Yozgat 66100, Turkey.
(4)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Anatomy, Faculty of Dentistry, Ankara 
University, Ankara 06100, Turkey.
(5)Betul Ziya Eren Genome and Stem Cell Center, Erciyes University, Kayseri 
38280, Turkey.
(6)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Erciyes University, 
Kayseri 38280, Turkey.

The onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is attributed to widespread amyloid beta 
(Aβ) plaque accumulation, tau hyperphosphorylation, oxidative stress, and 
neuroinflammation. However, the underlying mechanism of AD remains unclear, and 
no curative treatment currently exists. The aim was to investigate the effect of 
thymoquinone by suppressing the RAGE/NOX4 pathway in AD. Mice (n = 60) were 
divided into five groups, and an experimental AD model induced by an Aβ1-42 
peptide was established in two groups. We also administered 5 mg/kg thymoquinone 
(TMQ) to the mice for its properties to slow or treat neurodegeneration in AD. 
Behavioral tests for memory and emotional states, micro-computed tomography 
(Micro CT) to assess brain volume, ELISA to measure malondialdehyde (MDA) 
levels, hematoxylin and eosin staining (H&E) to evaluate neuronal degeneration 
were used. Immunohistochemical (IHC), Western blot (WB), and real-time 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods were used to evaluate the inhibitory 
effect of TMQ on a receptor for advanced glycation end products 
(RAGE)/nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase 4 (NOX4) 
signaling in AD. The results showed that TMQ may have ameliorative effects on 
memory, spatial learning, learning ability, and anxiety in AD. We showed that 
TMQ has an antioxidative effect by decreasing MDA levels by the ELSIA method (p 
< 0.05). There was a marked increase in neuronal degeneration in AD mice 
compared to other groups (p < 0.05). We concluded that TMQ could ameliorate 
neuronal degeneration in AD by H&E staining and suppress RAGE/NOX4 signaling by 
IHC and WB analysis. We concluded that TMQ could be therapeutic in AD by 
reducing AB expression level by IHC analysis (p < 0.05). Real-time PCR analysis 
showed that APP (p < 0.05), RAGE, and NOX4 (p < 0.05) gene expressions could be 
reduced by TMQ. In conclusion, TMQ has a high therapeutic potential in AD and an 
effective preventive and therapeutic strategy can be developed with more 
comprehensive studies on TMQ.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15040543
PMCID: PMC12024666
PMID: 40305274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


3. Biomolecules. 2025 Apr 3;15(4):522. doi: 10.3390/biom15040522.

Iatrogenic Dementia: Providing Insight into Transmissible Subtype of Alzheimer's 
Disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease and Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy.

Karatzetzou S(1), Ioannidis S(2), Konstantinopoulou E(1), Parisis D(1), Afrantou 
T(1), Ioannidis P(1).

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Neurology, AHEPA University Hospital, Aristotle University 
of Thessaloniki, 54636 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)School of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, 
Greece.

Within the phenotypic spectrum of Alzheimer's disease (AD), Creutzfeldt-Jakob 
disease (CJD) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA), dementia that is attributed 
to iatrogenic transmission has increasingly gained scientific attention 
recently. Newly recognized, this treatment-induced form of dementia may result 
from exposure to certain medical or surgical procedures. The present review aims 
to explore the distinct features of acquired dementia encompassing a history of 
potential exposure and relatively early age of onset, highlighting transmission 
potential with a rather prion-like pattern. Having reviewed all available 
relevant literature, dementia of iatrogenic etiology represents a new disease 
entity that requires an individualized investigation process and poses a great 
clinical challenge as far as patients with AD, CJD and CAA are concerned. 
Understanding the underlying pathophysiology of these rare forms of dementia may 
significantly enhance awareness within clinical field of neurodegenerative 
diseases and facilitate their prompt management.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15040522
PMCID: PMC12025122
PMID: 40305264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


4. Biomolecules. 2025 Apr 4;15(4):528. doi: 10.3390/biom15040528.

The Inhibition of Bromodomain and Extraterminal Domain (BET) Proteins Protects 
Against Microglia-Mediated Neuronal Loss In Vitro.

Matuszewska M(1), Wilkaniec A(1), Cieślik M(1), Strawski M(2), Czapski GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Mossakowski Medical Research Institute, Polish Academy of Sciences, 
Department of Cellular Signalling, ul. Pawińskiego 5, 02-106 Warsaw, Poland.
(2)University of Warsaw, Faculty of Chemistry, ul. Pasteura 1, 02-093 Warsaw, 
Poland.

Neuroinflammation is a key feature of all neurodegenerative disorders, including 
Alzheimer's disease, and is tightly regulated by epigenetic mechanisms. Among 
them, bromodomain and extraterminal domain (BET) proteins play a crucial role by 
recognizing acetylated histones and acting as transcriptional co-regulators to 
modulate gene expression. This study investigates the potential of inhibiting 
BET proteins in preventing microglia-mediated neuronal damage in vitro. Murine 
BV2 microglial cells were exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or amyloid-β (Aβ) 
to induce an inflammatory response, and the subsequent effects on murine HT22 
neuronal cells were examined. Among the BET proteins tested, only Brd4 was 
significantly upregulated in BV2 cells upon pro-inflammatory stimulation. JQ1, a 
potent pan-inhibitor of BET proteins, suppressed LPS-induced upregulation of 
pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNA levels, including Il1b, Il6, and Tnf, in BV2 
microglia. Pre-treatment with JQ1 attenuated the cytotoxicity of LPS-activated 
BV2 cells toward neurons. Additionally, conditioned media from Aβ 
fibril-stimulated BV2 cells induced neuronal cell death, which was partially 
prevented by pre-treatment with JQ1. Co-culture assays further demonstrated the 
beneficial effect of BET inhibition. Our findings suggest that targeting BET 
proteins may offer a neuroprotective strategy by modulating microglial 
activation, potentially providing therapeutic benefits in neurodegenerative 
diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15040528
PMCID: PMC12025334
PMID: 40305227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


5. Biomolecules. 2025 Mar 25;15(4):481. doi: 10.3390/biom15040481.

Plant-Based Inhibitors of Protein Aggregation.

Zhytniakivska O(1)(2), Chaturvedi T(1), Thomsen MH(1).

Author information:
(1)AAU Energy, Aalborg University, Niels Bohrs Vej 8, 6700 Esbjerg, Denmark.
(2)Department of Medical Physics and Biomedical Nanotechnologies, V.N. Karazin 
Kharkiv National University, Svobody Sq. 4, 61022 Kharkiv, Ukraine.

The assembly of amyloidogenic proteins and peptides into toxic oligomeric and 
fibrillar aggregates is closely connected to the onset and progression of more 
than 50 protein diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
prion disease, and type 2 diabetes, to name only a few. Considerable research 
efforts at identifying the therapeutic strategies against these maladies are 
currently focused on preventing and inhibiting pathogenic protein aggregation by 
various agents. Plant-based extracts and compounds have emerged as promising 
sources of potential inhibitors due to their dual role as nutraceuticals as part 
of healthy diets and as specific pharmaceuticals when administered at higher 
concentrations. In recent decades, several plant extracts and plant-extracted 
compounds have shown potential to modulate protein aggregation. An ever-growing 
body of research on plant-based amyloid inhibitors requires a detail analysis of 
existing data to identify potential knowledge gaps. This review summarizes the 
recent progress in amyloid inhibition using 17 flavonoids, 11 polyphenolic 
non-flavonoid compounds, 23 non-phenolic inhibitors, and 59 plant extracts, with 
the main emphasis on directly modulating the fibrillation of four amyloid 
proteins, namely amyloid-β peptide, microtubule-associated protein tau, 
α-synuclein, and human islet amyloid polypeptide.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15040481
PMCID: PMC12025044
PMID: 40305223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


6. Biomolecules. 2025 Mar 25;15(4):475. doi: 10.3390/biom15040475.

Ruthenium(II)-Arene Complexes with a 2,2'-Bipyridine Ligand as Anti-Aβ Agents.

Hacker RM(1), Smith JJ(1), Platt DC(2), Brennessel WW(3), Jones MA(2), Webb 
MI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, SUNY Geneseo, Geneseo, NY 14454, 
USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Illinois State University, Normal, IL 69701, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627, USA.

Agents that target the amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide associated with Alzheimer's 
disease have seen renewed interest following the clinical success of antibody 
therapeutics. Small molecules, specifically metal-based complexes, are excellent 
candidates for advancement, given their relative ease of preparation and modular 
scaffold. Herein, several ruthenium-arene complexes containing 2,2-bipyridine 
(bpy) ligands were prepared and evaluated for their respective ability to 
modulate the aggregation of Aβ. This was carried out using the three sequential 
methods of thioflavin T (ThT) fluorescence, dynamic ligand scattering (DLS), and 
transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Overall, it was observed that RuBA, the 
complex with a 4,4-diamino-2,2-bipyridine ligand, had the greatest impact on Aβ 
aggregation. Further evaluation of the complexes was performed to determine 
their relative affinity for serum albumin and biocompatibility towards two 
neuronal cell lines. Ultimately, RuBA outperformed the other Ru complexes, where 
the structure-activity relationship codified the importance of the amino groups 
on the bpy for anti-Aβ activity.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15040475
PMCID: PMC12024814
PMID: 40305171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


7. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70007. doi: 10.1002/alz.70007.

Physical activity changes during midlife link to brain integrity and amyloid 
burden.

Akinci M(1)(2)(3)(4), Aguilar-Domínguez P(1)(3)(4)(5), Palpatzis E(1)(2)(3)(4), 
Shekari M(2)(3)(6), García-Prat M(2), Deulofeu C(2), Fauria K(2), 
García-Aymerich J(1)(3)(4), Gispert JD(2)(3)(6)(7), Suárez-Calvet M(2)(6)(8)(9), 
Grau-Rivera O(2)(6)(8)(9), Sánchez-Benavides G(2)(6)(8), Arenaza-Urquijo 
EM(1)(2)(3)(4)(6)(8); ALFA study.

Author information:
(1)Barcelona Institute for Global Health (ISGlobal), Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center - Pasqual Maragall Foundation, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(3)Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Barcelona, Spain.
(4)CIBER Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Madrid, Spain.
(5)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i 
Sant Pau, Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau (IIBSant Pau), Barcelona, 
Spain.
(6)Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y 
Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), Madrid, Spain.
(8)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento 
Saludable (CIBERFES), Madrid, Spain.
(9)Servei de Neurologia, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Evidence suggests that midlife physical activity may reduce 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk. In at-risk individuals, we investigated midlife 
physical activity changes in relation to AD-related pathologies.
METHODS: We included 337 cognitively unimpaired adults with baseline and 
follow-up physical activity evaluations within 4.07 ± 0.84 years. We performed 
multiple regressions considering follow-up amyloid-PET burden and MRI-based 
medial temporal lobe cortical thickness as outcomes. Independent variables 
encompassed changes in adherence to World Health Organization (WHO)-recommended 
physical activity levels, activity amounts, and sedentary behavior (no activity 
reported).
RESULTS: Remaining sedentary was associated with lower cortical thickness 
compared to doing limited physical activity, maintaining adherence, or becoming 
adherent to WHO recommendations. Becoming adherent to recommendations was linked 
to lower amyloid burden compared to becoming non-adherent. Increased activity 
amounts showed a dose-dependent association with lower amyloid burden.
DISCUSSION: Increasing physical activity and new adherence to WHO 
recommendations could be key objectives for preventive strategies during 
midlife.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION INFORMATION: Registered at Clinicaltrials.gov 
(identifier: NCT02485730).
HIGHLIGHTS: Boosting physical activity in midlife may have beneficial effects in 
preclinical AD. Physical activity increases relate to lower Aβ burden in a 
dose-dependent manner. Remaining sedentary links to lower cortical thickness in 
AD-vulnerable structures. New adherence to WHO-recommended physical activity 
levels may enhance brain health.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70007
PMCID: PMC12042120
PMID: 40304268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: O.G‐R. has given lectures in symposia sponsored 
by Roche Diagnostics, and receives support for research (to the institution) 
from F‐ Hoffmann La Roche. MSC has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Roche 
Diagnostics, S.L.U, Roche Farma, S.A and Amirall. He has served as a consultant 
and at advisory boards for Roche Diagnostics International Ltd and Grifols S.L. 
He was granted with a project funded by Roche Diagnostics International Ltd; 
payments were made to the institution (BBRC). He received in‐kind support for 
research (to the institution) from Roche Diagnostics International Ltd, Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Inc., Eli Lilly and Janssen Research & Development. 
J.G.‐A. reports speaking and lecture fees from Chiesi España and AstraZeneca 
Pharmaceuticals LP, not related to the topic of this publication. M.A., P.A.‐D., 
E.P., M.G.‐P., M.S., C.D., K.F., J.D.G., G.S.‐B., and E.M.A.‐U. declare that 
they have no competing interests. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


8. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2025 Jun;18(6):e011246. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.124.011246. Epub 2025 Apr 30.

Association of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD) With Days at 
Home Among Medicare Beneficiaries After a Heart Failure Hospitalization.

Mitlak HW(1), Espinosa CG(1), Thompson MP(2), Ryan KA(3), Levine DA(4), Sun 
N(5), Kheirbek RE(6), Sterling MR(#)(1), Falvey J(#)(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY (H.W.M., C.G.E., 
M.R.S.).
(2)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann 
Arbor, MI (M.P.T.).
(3)Department of Medicine, (K.A.R.), University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI 
(D.A.L.).
(5)Department of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Science, (N.S., J.F.), 
University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
(6)Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Department of Medicine 
(R.E.K.), University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
(7)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health (J.F.), University of Maryland 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Older adults with concomitant heart failure (HF) and Alzheimer's 
Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD) are at high risk for adverse outcomes, 
including health care utilization and mortality. Increasingly, adults with these 
conditions want to maximize quality of life and days at home (DAH). This study 
aimed to determine the association between ADRD and DAH following HF 
hospitalization.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort analysis draws from a 20% random sample from 
2017 to 2019 Medicare claims of beneficiaries who survived HF hospitalization. 
The primary outcome was mean DAH 6 months post-hospitalization. Exposure was 
defined as the presence of diagnosed ADRD, extracted from the Master Beneficiary 
Summary Base File Chronic Conditions subfile. Multivariable negative binomial 
regression was used to examine the adjusted association between ADRD and DAH, 
with covariates selected in accordance with the Andersen model of health care 
utilization.
RESULTS: The 74,908 Medicare beneficiaries in the cohort had a mean age of 79.1 
years (SD 11); half were men (50.0%) and 82.3% were non-Hispanic White. Overall, 
18% (n=14,396) had ADRD. Beneficiaries with concomitant ADRD were older, more 
likely to be female, and more likely to have dual Medicaid/Medicare eligibility 
compared with those without ADRD. Although DAH in the 6 months preceding 
admission was similar, following hospitalization those with concomitant ADRD had 
less time at home (mean DAH 120.7 [65.9] for those with ADRD versus 136.4 [59.7] 
for those without ADRD). When adjusting for patient characteristics, 
hospitalization course, and hospital and geographic-level fixed effects, this 
difference persisted: patients with HF and ADRD spent an estimated 6% fewer DAH 
post-hospitalization (incidence rate ratio, 0.94 0.93-0.95). In the 6 months 
post-hospitalization, 10.2% of patients with HF and ADRD spent ≤7 DAH. The odds 
of spending ≤7 DAH were 24% higher for patients with ADRD (odds ratio, 1.24 [95% 
CI, 1.16-1.33]).
CONCLUSIONS: Following HF hospitalization, Medicare beneficiaries with ADRD 
spent significantly fewer DAH than those without ADRD. Identifying and 
addressing the unmet needs of this population after hospitalization is crucial.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.124.011246
PMCID: PMC12173780
PMID: 40304047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


9. Glia. 2025 Aug;73(8):1727-1745. doi: 10.1002/glia.70029. Epub 2025 Apr 30.

Subtle Alterations in Hippocampal Neuronal Activity Coincide With Early 
Sex-Specific Differences in Amyloidosis and Microglia in a Pre-Symptomatic Mouse 
Model of Alzheimer-Like Pathology.

Chaigneau T(1), Sha S(1)(2), Roux CM(3), Aïd S(1), Faucher A(1), Chantran Y(1), 
Dorothée G(1), Krantic S(1).

Author information:
(1)Sorbonne Université, INSERM, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, CRSA, 
Neuroimmunology, Inflammation and Therapeutics Laboratory, Hôpital 
Saint-Antoine, Paris, France.
(2)Department of Physiology, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.
(3)Normandie University, UNICAEN, INSERM, COMETE, CYCERON, CHU de Caen, Caen, 
France.

Growing evidence highlights sex-related differences in the pathogenesis of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Yet, early impact of sex on neuronal activity and 
microglia in the hippocampus, a main site of memory formation and one of the 
most vulnerable brain areas in AD, remains poorly understood. We thus assessed 
these issues by using APPPS1 mouse model of AD-like amyloid pathology at a 
pre-symptomatic stage (5-6 months). Our electrophysiological data point to 
opposite alterations in hippocampal CA1 neurons' basal glutamatergic 
neurotransmission and response to excitatory inputs between male and female 
APPPS1 mice. These complex changes in neuronal activity are likely to precede 
plasticity impairments, which do not yet translate into sexual dimorphism of 
Long-Term Potentiation (LTP) at the studied age. Alteration in synaptic 
transmission in males coincides with an increased number and coverage of 
microglia, together with increased plaque coverage, as compared to the female 
hippocampus. Such increased microgliosis in males is accompanied by complex 
sex-related differences in the expression of specific transcriptomic markers 
Disease-Associated Microglia (DAM)/Microglial neurodegenerative phenotype 
(MGnD), whereas homeostatic (M0) markers were unaffected. Our data show for the 
first time that subtle alterations in hippocampal neuronal activity coincide 
with early sex-related differences in amyloidosis and microglia already at the 
pre-symptomatic stage of AD-like pathology.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/glia.70029
PMID: 40304030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Brain Commun. 2025 Apr 18;7(2):fcaf156. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf156. 
eCollection 2025.

Lymphocyte signatures correspond to clinical phenotypes in autoimmune limbic 
encephalitis.

Räuber S(1)(2), Schulte-Mecklenbeck A(1), Sarink K(3), Müller C(1), Mannil M(4), 
Langenbruch L(1), Dik A(1), Barman S(2), Strippel C(1), Gallus M(1), Golombeck 
KS(1)(2), Schroeter CB(1)(2), Willison A(2), Nelke C(1)(2), Ismail FS(5), 
Schwindt W(4), Goebels N(2), Kovac S(1), Wiendl H(1), Meyer Zu Hörste G(1), 
Duning T(1), Hanke M(6)(7), Ruck T(1)(2), Heindel W(4), Dannlowski U(3), Hahn 
T(3), Gross CC(1), Meuth SG(1)(2), Melzer N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology with Institute of Translational Neurology, University 
of Münster, Münster 48149, Germany.
(2)Department of Neurology, Medical Faculty and University Hospital Düsseldorf, 
Heinrich Heine University of Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf 40225, Germany.
(3)Institute for Translational Psychiatry, University of Münster, Münster 48149, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Clinical Radiology, University of Münster, Münster 48149, 
Germany.
(5)Department of Neurology, Klinikum Vest, Academic Teaching Hospital of the 
Ruhr University Bochum, Recklinghausen 45657, Germany.
(6)Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine, Brain & Behaviour (INM-7), Research 
Centre Jülich, Jülich 52425, Germany.
(7)Institute of Systems Neuroscience, Medical Faculty and University Hospital 
Düsseldorf, Heinrich Heine University of Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf 40225, Germany.

Autoimmune limbic encephalitis is an inflammatory condition confined to the 
limbic system of the brain that is deemed to be due to a dysregulated immune 
response. However, the exact pathophysiological mechanisms remain elusive. 
Diagnosis of autoimmune limbic encephalitis currently relies on clinical 
consensus criteria. However, diagnostic workup can be challenging, potentially 
delaying treatment initiation associated with poor clinical outcomes. We 
retrospectively identified 640 patients (81 autoimmune limbic encephalitis, 148 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, 197 Alzheimer's disease, 67 
frontotemporal dementia, 37 temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis 
and 110 somatic symptom disorder patients). Applying multidimensional 
flow-cytometry together with novel computational approaches, we analysed the 
peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid immune cell profiles at different 
disease stages and performed correlations with clinical parameters (i.e. 
neuropsychological performance, EEG and MRI). We were able to identify a shared 
immune signature of autoimmune limbic encephalitis showing similarities in 
adaptive B and T cell response with other inflammatory central nervous system 
diseases and in T cell patterns with neurodegenerative disorders. 
Antibody-negative autoimmune limbic encephalitis showed a pronounced T cell 
response in peripheral blood similar to temporal lobe epilepsy and hippocampal 
sclerosis and neurodegenerative disorders differentiating from antibody-positive 
autoimmune limbic encephalitis and classical inflammatory central nervous system 
diseases with regard to B and plasma cell response. Longitudinal immune cell 
phenotyping in autoimmune limbic encephalitis revealed dynamic changes over time 
mainly affecting the innate, B and plasma cell compartment. Correlation analysis 
indicated associations between the baseline immune cell profile, especially 
lymphocytes, and neuropsychological performance, as well as EEG and MRI 
abnormalities. Applying novel computational approaches, we found that 
multidimensional flow cytometry together with routine CSF parameters could 
reliably distinguish autoimmune limbic encephalitis from controls and clinical 
differential diagnoses. Incorporation of multidimensional flow cytometry 
parameters showed superior discriminatory ability compared with CSF routine 
parameters alone. Taken together, autoimmune limbic encephalitis is 
characterized by a B and T cell dominated intrathecal immune-cell signature 
corresponding to changes reported in the brain parenchyma and showing 
similarities with classical inflammatory central nervous system diseases and 
neurodegenerative disorders. Incorporating clinical parameters and applying 
novel computational approaches, we could show that multidimensional flow 
cytometry might be a beneficial complement to the established diagnostic workup 
of autoimmune limbic encephalitis promoting early diagnosis and facilitating 
outcome prediction to enhance individualized treatment regimes.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf156
PMCID: PMC12038345
PMID: 40303600

Conflict of interest statement: S.K. reports research funding from Biogen and 
has received speakers’ honoraria from Eisai, Jazz Pharma and UCB. The remaining 
authors report no conflicts of interest.


11. Theranostics. 2025 Mar 31;15(11):4890-4908. doi: 10.7150/thno.105953. 
eCollection 2025.

Pharmacological targeting of mitophagy via ALT001 improves herpes simplex virus 
1 (HSV1)-mediated microglial inflammation and promotes amyloid β phagocytosis by 
restricting HSV1 infection.

Oh SJ(1), Kim YY(2), Ma R(1)(3), Choi ST(4), Choi SM(5), Cho JH(5), Hur JY(6), 
Yoo Y(1)(3), Han K(1)(3), Park H(4), Yun J(2), Shin OS(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)BK21 Graduate Program, Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Translational Biomedical Sciences, Graduate School of Dong-A 
University, Busan, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Microbiology, College of Medicine, Yeungnam University, Daegu, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Medicinal Biotechnology, College of Health Sciences, Dong-A 
University, Busan, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, Ajou University, Suwon, Republic of Korea.
(7)Department of Convergence medicine, College of Medicine, Korea University 
Guro Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Rationale: One of the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the accumulation 
of dysfunctional mitochondria. Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV1) may be a risk 
factor for the neuropathology linked to amyloid β (Aβ) accumulation. However, 
the mechanisms underlying HSV1-associated mitochondrial dysfunction in AD remain 
unclear. ALT001 is a novel drug that ameliorates AD-related cognitive impairment 
via ULK1/Rab9-mediated alternative mitophagy. In this study, we investigated the 
effects of ALT001 on the neurodegeneration-related microglial signatures 
associated with HSV1 infection. Methods: Molecular mechanisms and physiological 
functions of mitophagy was investigated in HSV1-infected microglia, including 
primary murine and human embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived microglia (ES-MG), as 
well as in a microglia-neuron co-culture system. Microglial gene signatures 
following HSV1 infection in the presence or absence of ALT001 were analyzed 
using bulk RNA sequencing, and the effects of ALT001 on microglial phagocytosis 
and microglia-mediated immune responses were further evaluated by flow cytometry 
and cytokine profiles. Results: HSV1 infection inhibited PINK1/Parkin-mediated 
mitophagy via HSV1-encoded protein kinase US3, resulting in mitochondrial 
dysfunction in both human and mouse microglia. Furthermore, transcriptomic 
analysis of HSV1-infected microglia revealed an upregulation of distinct 
microglial genes associated with disease-associated microglia (DAM)-like 
phenotype and pro-inflammatory activity. Pharmacological targeting of mitophagy 
using ALT001 prevents mitochondrial damage caused by HSV1 through 
ULK1/Rab9-mediated pathway. Furthermore, ALT001-induced ULK1/Rab9-dependent 
mitophagy restricts HSV1 infection by activating interferon-mediated antiviral 
immunity. Consequently, ALT001 reduces HSV1-triggered neuroinflammation, 
recovers HSV1-altered microglial phagocytosis for Aβ, and efficiently reverses 
morphological and molecular abnormalities in HSV1-infected microglia by 
triggering mitophagy in ES-MG. ALT001 also suppressed HSV1-mediated Aβ 
accumulation and neurodegeneration in the microglia-neuron co-culture and 
cerebral organoid model. Conclusions: In this study, we identified a critical 
molecular link between HSV1 and AD-related microglial dysfunction. Furthermore, 
our findings provide an evidence that therapeutic targeting of alternative 
mitophagy via ALT001 effectively interfere with HSV1-induced microglial 
dysfunction and alleviate neurodegeneration.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/thno.105953
PMCID: PMC12036882
PMID: 40303347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: SJO, JY, and OSS have filed 
a patent regarding ALT001 as an antiviral drug candidate against HSV1. JY is 
co-founder of Altmedical company. The other authors declare no competing 
interests.


12. Recent Adv Antiinfect Drug Discov. 2025;20(1):5-29. doi: 
10.2174/0127724344308638240530065552.

Harnessing the Power of Probiotics: Boosting Immunity and Safeguarding against 
Various Diseases and Infections.

Singh A(1), Mazumder A(1), Das S(1), Kanda A(1), Tyagi PK(2), Chaitanya MVNL(3).

Author information:
(1)Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology (Pharmacy Institute), 19 
Knowledge Park-II, Greater Noida, 201306, U.P., India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology, 
19 Knowledge Park-II, Greater Noida, 201306, U.P., India.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
144001, Punjab, India.

The human microbiome, a diverse microorganism community, crucially defends 
against pathogens. Probiotics, postbiotics, and paraprobiotics alone and in 
combination are potent in countering fungal and waterborne infections, 
particularly against viral threats. This review focuses on the mechanisms of the 
microbiome against viral infections, emphasizing probiotic interventions. 
Certain Lactic Acid Bacteria (LAB) strains effectively eliminate toxic aflatoxin 
B1 (AFB1) from microfungi-produced mycotoxins. LAB binding to AFB1 persists 
post-gastric digestion, and pre-incubation with mycotoxins reduces probiotic 
adhesion to mucus. Oral probiotic administration in animals increases mycotoxin 
excretion, reducing associated health risks. Bifidobacterium longum and 
Lactobacillus rhamnosus show exceptional efficacy in removing cyanobacterial 
toxin microcystin-LR from drinking water. Engineered probiotics promise advanced 
therapeutic applications for metabolic disorders, Alzheimer's, and type 1 
diabetes, serving as diagnostic tools for detecting pathogens and inflammation 
markers. In antimicrobial peptide production, genetically modified probiotics 
producing human β-defensin 2 (HBD2) treat Crohn's disease with implemented 
biocontainment strategies preventing unintended environmental impacts.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0127724344308638240530065552
PMID: 40302548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2025 Apr 23;30(4):38300. doi: 10.31083/FBL38300.

Targeting Platelet Activating Factor Signaling for Therapeutic Benefits in 
Neurodegenerative Disorders.

Adamantidi T(1), Grabrucker AM(2)(3)(4), Tsoupras A(1).

Author information:
(1)Hephaestus Laboratory, School of Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, Democritus 
University of Thrace, Kavala University Campus, St. Lucas, 65404 Kavala, Greece.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Limerick, V94PH61 Limerick, 
Ireland.
(3)Bernal Institute, University of Limerick, V94PH61 Limerick, Ireland.
(4)Health Research Institute (HRI), University of Limerick, V94PH61 Limerick, 
Ireland.

Neurodegenerative disorders (NDs), including dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
and Parkinson's disease (PD), are age-related diseases closely associated with 
chronic inflammation, oxidative stress, gene mutations, autoimmune-derived 
inflammation, and other external risk factors. They are characterized by 
progressive neuronal loss, cognitive decline, and/or motor dysfunction, with 
chronic inflammation being a key player in intensifying NDs' occurrence. One of 
the most important molecular inflammatory mediators linking inflammation to NDs 
is the platelet-activating factor (PAF) and its pivotal signaling for regulating 
neuroinflammation, apoptosis, and neuronal damage. Dysregulation of PAF activity 
and metabolism/levels, along with overexpression of its receptor (PAF-R) have 
been associated with exacerbated inflammatory responses, further aggravating 
neurodegeneration. This article highlights the role of PAF in neurodegeneration, 
with a particular focus on novel insights into the potential medicinal use of 
PAF inhibitors for the prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. 
We evaluate the recently proposed concept of targeting the PAF signaling pathway 
through either natural and/or synthetic inhibitors or a combination of both. It 
explores the potential of these inhibitors to offer significant preventative and 
therapeutic benefits against NDs, likely through anti-inflammatory anti-aging 
effects and by slowing down the disease progression and preserving cognitive and 
motor dysfunction. Current status and future perspectives of such therapeutic 
approaches are also discussed.

© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/FBL38300
PMID: 40302347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2025 Apr 22;30(4):36597. doi: 10.31083/FBL36597.

Aerobic Exercise Ameliorates Alzheimer's Disease-Like Pathology by Regulating 
Hepatic Phagocytosis of Aβ.

Wang Q(1)(2), Hu FR(1)(2), Gou XC(1)(2), Wang S(1)(2), Ji NC(3).

Author information:
(1)Shaanxi Key Laboratory of Brain Disorders & Institute of Basic and 
Translational Medicine, Xi'an Medical University, 710021 Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of Brain Diseases Drug Development, Universities 
of Shaanxi Province, Xi'an Medical University, 710021 Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(3)Center for Blockchain & Healthcare Service, Xi'an Medical University, 710021 
Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease which 
significantly and negatively affects families and society. Aerobic exercise 
serves as a non-pharmacological strategy, potentially safeguarding against 
cognitive decline and lowering the risk of AD. However, how aerobic exercise 
ameliorates AD remains unknown. This study investigated the effects of two types 
of aerobic exercise, including aerobic interval training (AIT) and aerobic 
continuous training (ACT), on cognitive and exploratory function, brain 
histopathology, and hepatic amyloid beta (Aβ) clearance in amyloid precursor 
protein/presenilin-1 double transgenic (APP/PS1) transgenic mice.
METHODS: Twenty-four six-month-old male APP/PS1 transgenic mice (body weight: 
20-22 g) were used to establish the AD model. APP/PS1 transgenic mice were 
randomly assigned to one of the three groups: rest (AD group, n = 8), aerobic 
interval training (AIT group, n = 8), and aerobic continuous training (ACT 
group, n = 8). The exploration ability and anxiety of AD mice were measured 
using the open-field test. Learning and memory of AD mice were detected using 
the novel object recognition test, Y-maze test, and Morris water maze test. 
Neuronal damage was analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining and Nissl 
staining. Aβ deposition in the brain was detected using a thioflavin-S 
fluorescence assay and immunofluorescence. The mechanisms underlying hepatic Aβ 
clearance were investigated using an immunofluorescence assay and western 
blotting. Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA with Tukey's post hoc test, and 
p < 0.05 was deemed statistically significant.
RESULTS: The results revealed that both AIT and ACT improved the recognition 
memory and exploration ability of mice after 8 weeks of intervention. 
Additionally, both forms of aerobic exercise significantly mitigated neuronal 
damage and Aβ deposition in the brain and improved the hepatic clearance of Aβ.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicated that AIT and ACT can improve cognitive 
deficits in APP/PS1 mice, potentially by increasing the hepatic phagocytic 
capacity of Aβ. Hepatic clearance of Aβ may serve as a supplementary mechanism 
by which aerobic exercise can improve AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/FBL36597
PMID: 40302344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. J Integr Neurosci. 2025 Apr 24;24(4):25845. doi: 10.31083/JIN25845.

Ferroptosis in Alzheimer's Disease: The Regulatory Role of Glial Cells.

Xu J(1), Shen R(1), Qian M(1), Zhou Z(2), Xie B(3), Jiang Y(3), Yu Y(1)(4), Dong 
W(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Medical Electrophysiology, Ministry of Education & Medical 
Electrophysiological Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Institute of 
Cardiovascular Research, Southwest Medical University, 646000 Luzhou, Sichuan, 
China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, The Affiliated Hospital of Southwest Medical 
University, 646000 Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(3)Laboratory of Neurological Diseases and Brain Function, Institute of 
Epigenetics and Brain Science, The Affiliated Hospital of Southwest Medical 
University, 646000 Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(4)Department of Human Anatomy and Histoembryology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Southwest Medical University, 646000 Luzhou, Sichuan, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the 
formation of amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and progressive cognitive 
decline. Amyloid-beta peptide (Aβ) monoclonal antibody therapeutic clinical 
trials have nearly failed, raising significant concerns about other etiological 
hypotheses about AD. Recent evidence suggests that AD patients also exhibit 
persistent neuronal loss and neuronal death accompanied by brain iron deposition 
or overload-related oxidative stress. Ferroptosis is a type of cell death that 
depends on iron, unlike autophagy and apoptosis. Inhibiting neuronal ferroptosis 
function is effective in improving cognitive impairment in AD. Notably, new 
research shows that ferroptosis in AD is crucially dependent on glial cell 
activation. This review examines the relationship between the imbalance of iron 
metabolism, the regulation of iron homeostasis in glial cells and neuronal death 
in AD pathology. Finally, the review summarizes some current drug research in AD 
targeting iron homeostasis, many novel iron-chelating compounds and natural 
compounds showing potential AD-modifying properties that may provide therapeutic 
targets for treating AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/JIN25845
PMID: 40302253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70191. doi: 10.1002/alz.70191.

A comparative study of the EAT-Lancet diet and the Mediterranean diet in 
relation to neuroimaging biomarkers and cognitive performance.

Samuelsson J(1)(2), Stubbendorff A(2), Marseglia A(3), Lindberg O(3), Dartora 
C(3), Shams S(3)(4)(5), Cedres N(3)(6)(7), Kern S(1)(8), Skoog J(1), Rydén L(1), 
Westman E(3), Skoog I(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatric Epidemiology Unit, Department of Psychiatry and 
Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Centre for Ageing and Health (AGECAP) at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.
(3)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department of 
Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Radiology, Karolinska University Hospital, The Institution for 
Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, K8 Klinisk neurovetenskap, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Radiology, Stanford University Hospital, 291 Campus Drive, Li 
Ka Shing Building Stanford, Stanford, California, USA.
(6)Department of Psychology, Sensory Cognitive Interaction Laboratory (SCI-Lab), 
Stockholm University, Psykologiska institutionen, Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University Fernando 
Pessoa Canarias, Santa María de Guía Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain.
(8)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Region Västra 
Götaland, Mölndal, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The impact of the sustainable EAT-Lancet planetary health diet on 
brain and cognitive health remains unclear. This study compared the impact of 
the EAT-Lancet diet with the well-established cognitive-beneficial Mediterranean 
diet (MeDi) in relation to neuroimaging biomarkers and cognitive performance 
among older adults.
METHODS: The study included 615 dementia-free 70-year-olds from the Swedish 
population-based Gothenburg H70 Birth Cohort study. Dietary adherence was 
measured with EAT-Lancet diet and MeDi scores. Neuroimaging measures included 
cortical thickness, hippocampal volume, small vessel disease, and deep 
learning-derived brain age. Cognitive performance was assessed with a global 
cognitive composite score.
RESULTS: In multi-adjusted models, higher adherence to the EAT-Lancet diet was 
associated with higher total mean cortical thickness, and thicker cortex in 
Alzheimer's disease-signature regions, while a higher adherence to the MeDi was 
associated with better cognitive performance.
DISCUSSION: The results indicate the beneficial effects of both the EAT-Lancet 
and the MeDi on brain health.
HIGHLIGHTS: There were no indications of detrimental effects of adhering to the 
EAT-Lancet diet. Adhering to the EAT-Lancet planetary health diet was associated 
with thicker cortex. Results confirm links between the Mediterranean diet and 
better cognitive function.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70191
PMCID: PMC12040733
PMID: 40302043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Silke Kern has served at scientific advisory 
boards, speaker, and/or as a consultant for Roche, Eli Lilly, Geras Solutions, 
Optoceutics, Biogen, Eisai, Merry Life, Triolab, Novo Nordisk, and Bioarctic, 
unrelated to the present study content. The remaining authors have nothing to 
disclose. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


17. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70192. doi: 10.1002/alz.70192.

Japanese participant data from three gantenerumab trials in early Alzheimer's 
disease.

Asada T(1), Thanasopoulou A(2), Delmar P(2), Wojtowicz J(2), Smith J(3), 
Yoshiyama Y(4), Yokoi K(5), Watanabe C(6), Isozaki M(7), Ozaki R(8), Ishida 
T(9), Tatsuda H(10), Tamaoka A(11).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Science Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Roche Product Development, Neuroscience, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(3)Product Development, Roche Products Ltd, Welwyn Garden City, UK.
(4)Inage Neurology and Memory Clinic, Chiba, Japan.
(5)Department of Neurology, National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Obu, 
Japan.
(6)Department of Neurology, National Hospital Organization Hiroshima-Nishi 
Medical Center, Hiroshima, Japan.
(7)Memory Clinical Toride, Toride, Japan.
(8)Biometrics Department, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Tokyo, Japan.
(9)Pharmaceutical Science Department, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(10)Specialty Clinical Development Department, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(11)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba, 
Tsukuba, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Gantenerumab was investigated in Japanese participants with mild 
cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) or mild AD in two global 
phase 3 trials (GRADUATE I/II), and a phase 2 trial in Japan (JP40959).
METHODS: Of 1965 participants randomized in GRADUATE I/II (global-GRADUATE), 132 
participants were enrolled from Japan (Japanese-GRADUATE) and 67 Japanese 
participants were randomized 2:1:1 to high-, low-dose gantenerumab, and placebo 
in JP40959.
RESULTS: Slowing of cognitive and functional decline, and amyloid reduction in 
gantenerumab group compared to placebo group were greater in Japanese-GRADUATE 
than in the global-GRADUATE and JP40959. Plasma gantenerumab concentrations in 
the Japanese-GRADUATE were slightly higher than in the global-GRADUATE and 
comparable to JP40959. Gantenerumab was well tolerated in the Japanese-GRADUATE 
and JP40959, matching the safety profile of the global-GRADUATE.
DISCUSSION: Differences in results across the populations studied could be 
related to imbalances in baseline body weight, amyloid load, and disease 
severity.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT03444870, NCT03443973; 
Japan Registry for Clinical Trials ID: jRCT2080224569.
HIGHLIGHTS: Gantenerumab was evaluated in Japanese participants with Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) in two global phase 3 trials and a phase 2 trial in Japan. Relative 
reduction in Clinical Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) deterioration 
favored gantenerumab in Japanese-GRADUATE (42%) more than in global-GRADUATE 
(9%) and JP40959 (-24%). Amyloid reduction in Japanese-GRADUATE was greater than 
in global-GRADUATE and JP40959. Overall, 72.7% and 27.5% of Japanese- and 
global-GRADUATE, respectively, achieved an amyloid-negative status. Cognitive 
and functional decline, and amyloid reduction could be related to baseline body 
weight and disease severity.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70192
PMCID: PMC12040720
PMID: 40302041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Takashi Asada has received consulting fees and 
honoraria from Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Angeliki Thanasopoulou, Paul 
Delmar, and Jakub Wojtowicz are full‐time employees of and shareholder in F. 
Hoffmann‐La Roche Ltd. Janice Smith is an employee of Roche Products Ltd and 
shareholder in F. Hoffmann‐La Roche Ltd. Yasumasa Yoshiyama, Katsunori Yokoi, 
Chigusa Watanabe, and Mitsuhiro Isozaki have nothing to disclose. Ryoto Ozaki 
and Takaaki Ishida are employees of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Hironori 
Tatsuda is an employee of and shareholder in Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 
Akira Tamaoka has received consulting fees from Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


18. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70194. doi: 10.1002/alz.70194.

Inhibition of hippocampal mossy fiber plasticity and episodic memory by human Aβ 
oligomers is prevented by enhancing cAMP signaling in Alzheimer's mice.

Jin SX(1), Bellier JP(1), Wells A(2), LIopis PM(2), Anekal PV(2), Tresback 
JS(3), Caldarone BJ(4), Liu L(1), Li S(1), Dettmer U(1), Ramalingam N(1), Selkoe 
DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Department of Neurology, Harvard 
Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)MicRoN Core, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Center for Nanoscale Systems, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(4)Mouse Behavior Core, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Early episodic memory impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is 
linked to synaptic dysfunction from amyloid β-protein oligomers (oAβ), 
particularly affecting the dentate gyrus mossy fiber-CA3 pathway. The APPNL-G-F 
mouse model exhibits early deficits in mossy fiber long-term potentiation 
(mf-LTP).
METHODS: We administered the β-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol (ISO) 
in vivo and phosphodiesterase type 4 inhibitor GSK356278 in vitro to assess 
their impact on mf-LTP and contextual fear memory. Fluorescence lifetime imaging 
(FLIM)-Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy was used to visualize 
impaired and rescued cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling in dentate 
gyrus neurons.
RESULTS: ISO prevented mf-LTP impairment at 3-4 mo and improved memory by 7 mo. 
GSK356278 inhibited mf-LTP deficits in a dose-dependent manner. ISO also reduced 
hyperphosphorylation of synapsin I and microgliosis.
DISCUSSION: These findings suggest that β-AR activation and phosphodiesterase 4 
(PDE4) inhibition mitigate oAβ-induced memory deficits, supporting enhanced cAMP 
signaling as a therapeutic target for early AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Early episodic memory deficits in AD linked to oAβ-induced synaptic 
dysfunction. Isoproterenol and GSK356278 improve mossy fiber-LTP and fear memory 
deficits. FLIM-FRET shows treatments restore cAMP signaling in dentate gyrus 
neurons. Isoproterenol reduces synapsin I hyperphosphorylation and microgliosis. 
Enhancing cAMP signaling may help mitigate early memory deficits in AD.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70194
PMCID: PMC12040739
PMID: 40302031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: D.J.S. is a director of Prothena Biosciences and 
ad hoc consultant to Eisai and Roche. The other authors declare no competing 
interests. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


19. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70186. doi: 10.1002/alz.70186.

Leveraging data, technology, and policy to address disparities for persons 
living with Alzheimer's disease and Alzheimer's disease related dementias.

Fabius CD(1), Chen J(2), Coe NB(3), Drabo EF(1), Fashaw-Walters S(3), 
Rivera-Hernandez M(4), Sadarangani T(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, 
University of Maryland at College Park, College Park, Maryland, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Department of Health Services, Policy and Practice, Brown University School 
of Public Health, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(5)Roy Meyers College of Nursing, New York University, New York, New York, USA.

Addressing disparities related to Alzheimer's disease and Alzheimer's disease 
related dementias (AD/ADRD) is a priority for policymakers, practitioners, and 
researchers. In this perspective, we highlight important gaps and opportunities 
presented during Session 4: Disparities in Health Care Access, Utilization, and 
Quality, of the 2023 National Research Summit on Care, Services, and Supports 
for Persons Living with Dementia and Their Care Partners/Caregivers. We call 
attention to three areas: (1) increased data availability and linkages across 
local, state, and federal levels; (2) health information technology use and 
related care access, quality, and costs; and (3) diverse health insurance models 
used to enable access to medical care, long-term services and supports, and 
address care quality. Recommendations present considerations for future research 
and opportunities to strengthen policies related to the care of persons living 
with AD/ADRD. HIGHLIGHTS: Disparities related to AD/ADRD negatively impact 
diverse populations. Limited data on underrepresented groups make it difficult 
to assess the full scope of disparities. Increasing access to health information 
technology is necessary for reducing disparities. More information is needed to 
understand the impact of payment models on addressing disparities.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70186
PMCID: PMC12040738
PMID: 40302029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts to disclose.


20. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70190. doi: 10.1002/alz.70190.

An especially hidden population: sexual and gender minority dementia caregivers.

Kittle KR(1), Flatt JD(2), Anderson JG(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Promotion and Policy, School of Public Health and Health 
Sciences, University of Massachusetts-Amherst, Amherst, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of Social and Behavioral Health, School of Public Health, 
University of Nevada-Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
(3)College of Nursing, University of Tennessee-Knoxville, Knoxville, Tennessee, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Sexual and gender minority (SGM) people are underrepresented in 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) caregiving research. This study 
examines potential factors associated with the health of SGM ADRD caregivers.
METHODS: A secondary analysis using data from an online survey with a sample of 
SGM ADRD caregivers (n = 286). Hierarchical regression models tested 
associations between health outcomes and socioenvironmental, stigma, and risk 
and protective factors.
RESULTS: Bisexual caregivers reported more stress, albeit better health than gay 
caregivers. Like bisexual caregivers, queer/other caregivers reported higher 
global health scores than gay caregivers. However, queer/other caregivers did 
not report significantly more stress. Transgender caregivers reported lower 
health scores than cisgender caregivers. Hispanic/Latino (H/L) caregivers 
reported worse health, but lower levels or perceived stress than non-H/Ls.
DISCUSSION: This study highlights factors associated with SGM caregivers' 
health, which can serve as targets for the development of caregiver supports, as 
well as further exploration of the unique experiences of SGM caregivers.
HIGHLIGHTS: The health of SGM ADRD caregivers varies by sexual orientation and 
gender identity. Bisexual caregivers reported more stress but better health than 
gay caregivers. Transgender caregivers reported worse health than cisgender 
caregivers. Hispanic/Latino (H/L) caregivers reported worse health than non-H/L 
caregivers.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70190
PMCID: PMC12040755
PMID: 40302022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Krystal R. Kittle, Jason D. Flatt, and Joel G. 
Anderson report no conflicts of interest or relevant financial disclosures 
related to this manuscript. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting 
Information.


21. Biol Sex Differ. 2025 Apr 29;16(1):29. doi: 10.1186/s13293-025-00711-w.

ERβ mediates sex-specific protection in the App-NL-G-F mouse model of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Demetriou A(1)(2), Lindqvist B(2)(3), Ali HG(1)(2)(4), Shamekh MM(1)(2)(4), 
Varshney M(2)(3), Inzunza J(2)(3), Maioli S(1), Nilsson P(1), Nalvarte I(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of 
Neurogeriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Visionsgatan 4, J9:20, 171 64, Solna, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, 141 57, 
Huddinge, Sweden.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, 141 52, Huddinge, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Assiut 
University, Assiut, 71526, Egypt.
(5)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of 
Neurogeriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Visionsgatan 4, J9:20, 171 64, Solna, 
Sweden. ivan.nalvarte@ki.se.
(6)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, 141 57, 
Huddinge, Sweden. ivan.nalvarte@ki.se.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Jul 23:2024.07.22.604543. doi: 10.1101/2024.07.22.604543.

BACKGROUND: Menopausal loss of neuroprotective estrogen is thought to contribute 
to the sex differences in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Activation of estrogen 
receptor beta (ERβ) can be clinically relevant since it avoids the adverse 
systemic effects of ERα activation. However, very few studies have explored 
ERβ-mediated neuroprotection in AD, and no information on its contribution to 
the sex differences in AD exists. In the present study, we specifically explored 
the role of ERβ in mediating sex-specific protection against AD pathology in the 
AppNL-G-F knock-in mouse model of amyloidosis, and if surgical menopause 
(ovariectomy) modulates pathology in this model.
METHODS: We treated male and female AppNL-G-F knock-in mice with the clinically 
relevant and selective ERβ agonist LY500307. A subset of the females was 
ovariectomized prior to treatment. Y-maze and contextual fear conditioning tests 
were used to assess memory performance, and biochemical assays such as qPCR, 
immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and multiplex immunoassays, were used to 
evaluate amyloid pathology.
RESULTS: We found that Female AppNL-G-F mice had higher soluble Aβ levels in 
cortex and hippocampus than males and more activated microglia. ERβ activation 
protected against amyloid pathology and cognitive decline in both male and 
female AppNL-G-F mice. Although ovariectomy increased soluble amyloid beta (Aβ) 
in cortex and insoluble Aβ in hippocampus, as well as sustained 
neuroinflammation after ERβ activation, it had otherwise limited effects on 
pathology. We further identified that ERβ did not alter APP processing, but 
rather exerted its protection at least partly via microglia activation in a 
sex-specific manner.
CONCLUSION: Combined, we provide new understanding to the sex differences in AD 
by demonstrating that ERβ protects against AD pathology differently in males and 
females, warranting reassessment of ERβ in combating AD.

Plain Language Summary: About two-thirds of all Alzheimer’s disease (AD) 
patients are women. Although the reason for this sex difference is likely 
multifaceted, sex hormones are believed to be involved. The female sex hormone 
estrogen is known to mediate neuroprotection and loss of estrogen during the 
menopausal transition is believed to be a risk factor for AD. However, there is 
a gap in knowledge on how estrogenic neuroprotection occurs and if this 
neuroprotection is similar in men and women. In the current study, we 
specifically focused on one estrogen receptor, ERβ, and its role in mediating 
protection in a clinically relevant mouse model of AD and asked if there are any 
differences in this protection between male and female AD mice. Such information 
is of importance if proposing clinical trials targeting ERβ, which unlike 
targeting the ubiquitous estrogen receptor alpha (ERα), is not associated with 
adverse systemic effects. We found that ERβ activation indeed protects against 
amyloid plaque buildup and cognitive impairment in both males and females. 
Interestingly, this neuroprotection appeared to work differently in different 
brain regions and affected neuroinflammation and microglia immune cell function 
differently in males and females. Surgical menopause (ovariectomy) increased 
amyloid levels, which was counteracted by ERβ activation, and sustained high 
neuroinflammation but had otherwise limited effect on pathology. We provide the 
first study comparing ERβ-mediated protection on AD pathology in males and 
females, highlighting important sex differences that should be considered when 
proposing ERβ as a target to combat AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13293-025-00711-w
PMCID: PMC12039102
PMID: 40302001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All procedures were performed in accordance with approved ethical 
permits (ethical approval ID 407 and ID 2199–2021, Linköping’s animal ethical 
board). Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests.


22. Biomark Res. 2025 Apr 29;13(1):67. doi: 10.1186/s40364-025-00776-0.

The overlooked trio: sleep duration, sampling time and physical exercise alter 
levels of olink-assessed blood biomarkers of cardiovascular risk.

Brandão LEM(#)(1), Zhang L(#)(1)(2), Grip A(2), Hong MG(3), Kåks E(1), Benfeitas 
R(3), Sigurdardottir F(4), Blennow K(5)(6)(7)(8), Zetterberg 
H(5)(6)(9)(10)(11)(12), Espes D(1)(2)(13), Omland T(4), Khoonsari PE(13), 
Benedict C(14), Cedernaes J(15)(16).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Department of Medical Cell Biology, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)SciLifeLab, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)K.G. Jebsen Centre for Cardiac Biomarkers, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(7)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(8)Division of Life Sciences and Medicine, and Department of Neurology, 
Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, Neurodegenerative Disorder Research 
Center, University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated 
Hospital of USTC, Hefei, People's Republic of China.
(9)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(10)Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(11)Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(12)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(13)SciLife Lab, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(14)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(15)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. 
jonathan.cedernaes@medsci.uu.se.
(16)Department of Medical Cell Biology, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. 
jonathan.cedernaes@medsci.uu.se.
(#)Contributed equally

Biomarker profiling from biofluids such as blood are widely measured in clinical 
research, using for example Olink proteomics panels. One such research focus 
area is cardiovascular disease (CVD), for which chronic sleep restriction (SR) 
is a risk factor. However, it remains unclear whether blood levels of commonly 
measured CVD biomarkers are sensitive to acute dynamic factors such as SR, 
physical exercise (PEx), and time of day. In this crossover design, 16 
normal-weight, healthy men underwent three highly standardized in-lab nights of 
SR (4.25 h/night) and normal sleep (NS, 8.5 h/night) in randomized order, with 
88 CVD blood protein biomarkers quantified using the Olink technology (and 
selected validation using ELISA) in the morning, evening, and immediately before 
and repeatedly after 30 min of high-intensity exercise. We found significant 
time-of-day-dependent changes in several CVD biomarkers. Whereas several 
proteins were exercise-induced across sleep conditions (such as the canonical 
exerkines IL- 6 and BDNF), exercise-induced proteomic dynamics differed in 
response to recurrent SR, compared with following NS. Moreover, SR compared with 
NS resulted in a biomarker profile previously associated with increased 
prospective risk of several CVDs across large-scale cohorts (such as higher 
circulating levels of IL-27 and LGALS9). Our findings highlight how dynamic 
physiology can modulate CVD biomarker levels. These results also underscore the 
need to consider sleep duration as a key determinant of cardiovascular health-an 
emphasis reflected in recent American Heart Association guidelines. Further 
studies in women, older individuals, and patients with prior CVD, and across 
different chronotypes and dietary schedules are warranted.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40364-025-00776-0
PMCID: PMC12038921
PMID: 40301994

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study was approved by the regional Ethics Committee in Uppsala 
(Dnr 2014/242/1, Sweden) and was conducted following written and orally informed 
participant consent. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: KB has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for Abbvie, AC 
Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, 
Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, Sanofi and 
Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees for Julius 
Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials and 
participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, 
Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, 
outside the work presented in this paper. HZ has served at scientific advisory 
boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, 
Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work). HZ has served at scientific advisory 
boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, 
Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work).


23. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2025 Apr 29;17(1):94. doi: 10.1186/s13195-025-01736-4.

Repetitive prefrontal tDCS activates VTA dopaminergic neurons, resulting in 
attenuation of Alzheimer's Disease-like deficits in Tg2576 mice.

De Paolis ML(1), Loffredo G(1), Krashia P(2)(3), La Barbera L(1)(3), Nobili 
A(1)(3), Cauzzi E(1), Babicola L(3)(4), Di Segni M(5), Coccurello R(3)(6), 
Puglisi-Allegra S(7), Latagliata EC(#)(8)(9), D'Amelio M(#)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery, Università Campus Bio-Medico Di Roma, Via 
Alvaro del Portillo, 21, 00128, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Sciences and Technologies for Sustainable Development and One 
Health, Università Campus Bio-Medico Di Roma, Via Alvaro del Portillo, 21, 
00128, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Experimental Neurosciences, IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation, Via 
del Fosso Di Fiorano, 64, 00143, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Psychology, Sapienza University of Rome, P.Le Aldo Moro, 5, 
00185, Rome, Italy.
(5)Child Psychopathology Unit, IRCCS Eugenio Medea, Via Don Luigi Monza, 20, 
23842, Bosisio Parini, Italy.
(6)National Research Council (CNR), Institute for Complex System (ISC), Via Dei 
Taurini, 19, 00185, Rome, Italy.
(7)Istituto Di Ricovero E Cura a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS) Neuromed, Via 
Atinense, 18, 86077, Pozzilli, Italy.
(8)Department of Experimental Neurosciences, IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation, Via 
del Fosso Di Fiorano, 64, 00143, Rome, Italy. claudio.latagliata@gmail.com.
(9)Department of Psychology, International Telematic University Uninettuno, 
Corso Vittorio Emanuele II, 39, 00186, Rome, Italy. 
claudio.latagliata@gmail.com.
(10)Department of Medicine and Surgery, Università Campus Bio-Medico Di Roma, 
Via Alvaro del Portillo, 21, 00128, Rome, Italy. m.damelio@unicampus.it.
(11)Department of Experimental Neurosciences, IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation, Via 
del Fosso Di Fiorano, 64, 00143, Rome, Italy. m.damelio@unicampus.it.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence implicates early dysfunction of dopaminergic 
neurons in the Ventral Tegmental Area (VTA) as a key contributor to Alzheimer's 
Disease (AD) pathophysiology. Specifically, the VTA dopaminergic 
neurodegeneration and the consequent reduction of dopamine (DA) in 
mesocorticolimbic targets are associated with the onset of cognitive impairments 
and neuropsychiatric-like manifestations in AD animal models. Moreover, 
decreased midbrain volume and functional VTA disconnection are identified as 
predictors of accelerated progression from Mild Cognitive Impairment to 
AD-dementia in clinical populations. Given these findings, interventions capable 
of directly modulating VTA activity and augmenting DA release, despite the 
ongoing neurodegeneration, may hold therapeutic potential for mitigating 
DA-related deficits in AD. This study aims at evaluating the therapeutic 
potential of prefrontal transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) in the 
Tg2576 mouse model of AD, exhibiting early VTA dopaminergic neurodegeneration.
METHODS: Repeated tDCS was applied to assess its ability to activate VTA DA 
neurons. We also evaluated tDCS effects on synaptic plasticity, cognitive and 
non-cognitive behaviours and AD-related pathology. Hippocampal DA release and 
Nucleus Accumbens (NAc) DA transporter (DAT) expression were measured. With 
immunohistochemistry we examined microglial density and morphological complexity 
at different disease stages. Additionally, intracellular amyloid-β (Aβ) levels 
and plaque burden were evaluated to determine the impact of tDCS on AD 
pathology.
RESULTS: Prefrontal tDCS enhanced the activity of VTA dopaminergic neurons, 
leading to increased hippocampal DA release and higher DAT levels in the NAc. 
The enhanced DA outflow is associated with restored CA3-CA1 synaptic plasticity 
and improvements in recognition memory and motivational behaviours. tDCS reduced 
microglial numbers and morphological complexity in Tg2576 mice at both 
pre-plaque stage (7-months) and at an advanced stage characterized by plaque 
accumulation (12-months). Notably, tDCS also decreased Aβ plaque burden, 
although no changes in intracellular Aβ levels were observed in younger Tg2576 
mice.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings highlight the multifaceted therapeutic potential of 
prefrontal tDCS in targeting key AD pathophysiological hallmarks, including 
dopaminergic dysfunction, synaptic impairments, neuroinflammation and plaque 
deposition. As a non-invasive neuromodulatory approach, prefrontal tDCS emerges 
as a promising early intervention strategy to complement existing AD treatments, 
with the potential to improve patient outcomes and quality of life.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-025-01736-4
PMCID: PMC12039073
PMID: 40301905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All animal procedures were conducted in accordance with the ARRIVE 
procedures and the ethical guidelines of the European Council Directive 
(2010/63/EU). Experimental approval was obtained from the Italian Ministry of 
Health (protocol #501-2019PR). Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


24. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Apr 29;20(1):50. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00830-3.

Monoallelic TYROBP deletion is a novel risk factor for Alzheimer's disease.

Martiskainen H(#)(1), Willman RM(#)(2), Harju P(2), Heikkinen S(2), Heiskanen 
M(2), Müller SA(3)(4), Sinisalo R(2), Takalo M(2), Mäkinen P(2), Kuulasmaa T(2), 
Pekkala V(5), Galván Del Rey A(2), Juopperi SP(2), Jeskanen H(2), Kervinen I(2), 
Saastamoinen K(2); FinnGen; Niiranen M(6), Heikkinen SV(7), Kurki 
MI(8)(9)(10)(11), Marttila J(12), Mäkinen PI(5), Rostalski H(5), Hietanen T(5), 
Ngandu T(13)(14), Lehtisalo J(7)(13), Bellenguez C(15), Lambert JC(15), Haass 
C(3)(16)(17), Rinne J(18)(19), Hakumäki J(12)(20), Rauramaa T(21)(22), Krüger 
J(23)(24)(25), Soininen H(7), Haapasalo A(5), Lichtenthaler SF(3)(4)(17), 
Leinonen V(26)(27), Solje E(6)(27), Hiltunen M(28).

Collaborators: Palotie A, Daly M, Riley-Gills B, Jacob H, Viollet C, Petrovski 
S, Chen CY, John S, Okafo G, Plenge R, Maranville J, McCarthy M, Pendergrass R, 
Davitte J, Auro K, Longerich S, Mälarstig A, Vlahiotis A, Klinger K, Chatelain 
C, Gossel M, Estrada K, Graham R, Waterworth D, O Donnell C, Renaud N, Mäkelä 
TP, Kaprio J, Ruddock M, Virolainen P, Hakanen A, Kilpi T, Perola M, Partanen J, 
Raivio T, Tikkanen J, Serpi R, Kristiansson K, Kosma VM, Laukkanen J, Hautalahti 
M, Tuovila O, Waring J, Riley-Gillis B, Rahimov F, Tachmazidou I, Ding Z, Jung 
M, Tuoken H, Biswas S, Raghavan N, Huertas-Vazquez A, Sul JH, Hu X, Hedman Å, 
Obeidat ME, Chung J, Zierer J, Niemi M, Ripatti S, Schleutker J, Arvas M, Carpén 
O, Hinttala R, Kettunen J, Mannermaa A, Aalto-Setälä K, Kähönen M, Mäkelä J, 
Kälviäinen R, Julkunen V, Remes A, Peltola J, Raivio M, Tienari P, Kallionpää R, 
Partanen J, Ziemann A, Smaoui N, Lehtonen A, Eaton S, Runz H, Lahdenperä S, 
Bowers N, Teng E, Xu F, Addis L, Eicher J, Li QS, He K, Khramtsova E, Färkkilä 
M, Koskela J, Pikkarainen S, Jussila A, Kaukinen K, Blomster T, Kiviniemi M, 
Voutilainen M, Lu T, McCarthy L, Hart A, Guan M, Miller J, Kalpala K, Miller M, 
Eklund K, Palomäki A, Isomäki P, Pirilä L, Kaipiainen-Seppänen O, Huhtakangas J, 
Mars N, Lertratanakul A, Hochfeld M, Gordillo JE, Farias F, Bing N, Laitinen T, 
Pelkonen M, Kauppi P, Kankaanranta H, Harju T, Lahesmaa R, Chen H, Betts J, 
Mishra R, Mouded M, Ngo D, Niiranen T, Vaura F, Salomaa V, Metsärinne K, 
Aittokallio J, Hernesniemi J, Gordin D, Sinisalo J, Taskinen MR, Tuomi T, 
Hiltunen T, Elliott A, Reeve MP, Ruotsalainen S, Paul D, Chu A, Reilly D, 
Mendelson M, Parkkinen J, Meretoja T, Joensuu H, Mattson J, Salminen E, Auranen 
A, Karihtala P, Auvinen P, Elenius K, Pitkänen E, Popovic R, Fabre M, Schutzman 
J, Kulkarni D, Porello A, Loboda A, Lehtonen H, McDonough S, Vuoti S, 
Kaarniranta K, Turunen JA, Ollila T, Uusitalo H, Karjalainen J, Liu M, Loomis S, 
Strauss E, Chen H, Tasanen K, Huilaja L, Hannula-Jouppi K, Salmi T, Peltonen S, 
Koulu L, Choy D, Wu Y, Pussinen P, Salminen A, Salo T, Rice D, Nieminen P, 
Palotie U, Siponen M, Suominen L, Mäntylä P, Gursoy U, Anttonen V, Sipilä K, 
Pendergrass R, Laivuori H, Kurra V, Kotaniemi-Talonen L, Heikinheimo O, Kalliala 
I, Aaltonen L, Jokimaa V, Vääräsmäki M, Uimari O, Morin-Papunen L, Niinimäki M, 
Piltonen T, Kivinen K, Widen E, Tukiainen T, Välimäki N, Laakkonen E, Tyrmi J, 
Silven H, Sliz E, Arffman R, Savukoski S, Laisk T, Pujol N, Kumar J, Hovatta I, 
Isometsä E, Ollila H, Suvisaari J, Mäkitie A, Bizaki-Vallaskangas A, 
Toppila-Salmi S, Willberg T, Saarentaus E, Aarnisalo A, Rahikkala E, Aittomäki 
K, Åberg F, Kurki M, Havulinna A, Mehtonen J, Palta P, Hassan S, Parolo PDB, 
Zhou W, Maasha M, Lemmelä S, Rivas M, Liu A, Lehisto A, Ganna A, Llorens V, 
Heyne H, Rämö J, Rodosthenous R, Strausz S, Palotie T, Palin K, Garcia-Tabuenca 
J, Siirtola H, Kiiskinen T, Lee J, Tsuo K, Hyvärinen K, Ritari J, Pylkäs K, 
Karjalainen M, Mantere T, Kangasniemi E, Pitkänen N, Lessard S, Chatelain C, 
Kallio L, Wahlfors T, Punkka E, Siltanen S, Kuopio T, Jalanko A, Shen HY, 
Kajanne R, Aavikko M, Cooper H, Öller D, Leinonen R, Palin H, Linna MM, Kanai M, 
Zheng Z, Lahtela LE, Kaunisto M, Kilpeläinen E, Sipilä TP, Dada OA, Ghazal A, 
Kytölä A, Weldatsadik R, Donner K, Loukola A, Laiho P, Sistonen T, Kaiharju E, 
Laukkanen M, Järvensivu E, Lähteenmäki S, Männikkö L, Wong R, Toivola A, 
Brunfeldt M, Mattsson H, Koskelainen S, Hiekkalinna T, Paajanen T, Luo S, 
Padmanabhuni SS, Niemi M, Gracia-Tabuenca J, Helminen M, Luukkaala T, Vähätalo 
I, Tammerluoto J, Smith S, Southerington T, Lehto P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland. 
henna.martiskainen@uef.fi.
(2)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(3)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(4)Neuroproteomics, School of Medicine and Health, Technical University of 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(5)A. I. Virtanen Institute for Molecular Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(6)Neuro Center - Neurology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.
(7)Institute of Clinical Medicine - Neurology, University of Eastern Finland, 
Kuopio, Finland.
(8)Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), Helsinki Institute of Life 
Science (Hilife), University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(9)Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of Harvard and 
MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(10)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, 
Cambridge, MA, USA.
(11)Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(12)Department of Clinical Radiology, Imaging Center, Kuopio University 
Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.
(13)Department of Public Health, Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, 
Helsinki, Finland.
(14)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department 
of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(15)LabEx DISTALZ - U1167-RID-AGE Facteurs de Risque Et Déterminants 
Moléculaires Des Maladies Liées Au Vieillissement, Université de Lille, Inserm, 
CHU Lille, Institut Pasteur de Lille, Lille, France.
(16)Metabolic Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Biomedical Centre (BMC), 
Ludwig-Maximilian University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(17)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (Synergy), Munich, Germany.
(18)Turku PET Centre, Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland.
(19)InFLAMES Research Flagship Center, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(20)Unit of Radiology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(21)Department of Clinical Pathology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(22)Unit of Pathology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(23)Research Unit of Clinical Medicine, Neurology, University of Oulu, Oulu, 
Finland.
(24)Medical Research Center, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland.
(25)Neurocenter, Neurology, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland.
(26)Department of Neurosurgery, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.
(27)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(28)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland. 
mikko.hiltunen@uef.fi.
(#)Contributed equally

Biallelic loss-of-function variants in TYROBP and TREM2 cause autosomal 
recessive presenile dementia with bone cysts known as Nasu-Hakola disease (NHD, 
alternatively polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing 
leukoencephalopathy, PLOSL). Some other TREM2 variants contribute to the risk of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia, while deleterious TYROBP 
variants are globally extremely rare and their role in neurodegenerative 
diseases remains unclear. The population history of Finns has favored the 
enrichment of deleterious founder mutations, including a 5.2 kb deletion 
encompassing exons 1-4 of TYROBP and causing NHD in homozygous carriers. We used 
here a proxy marker to identify monoallelic TYROBP deletion carriers in the 
Finnish biobank study FinnGen combining genome and health registry data of 
520,210 Finns. We show that monoallelic TYROBP deletion associates with an 
increased risk and earlier onset age of AD and dementia when compared to 
noncarriers. In addition, we present the first reported case of a monoallelic 
TYROBP deletion carrier with NHD-type bone cysts. Mechanistically, monoallelic 
TYROBP deletion leads to decreased levels of DAP12 protein (encoded by TYROBP) 
in myeloid cells. Using transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of human 
monocyte-derived microglia-like cells, we show that upon lipopolysaccharide 
stimulation monoallelic TYROBP deletion leads to the upregulation of the 
inflammatory response and downregulation of the unfolded protein response when 
compared to cells with two functional copies of TYROBP. Collectively, our 
findings indicate TYROBP deletion as a novel risk factor for AD and suggest 
specific pathways for therapeutic targeting.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00830-3
PMCID: PMC12038944
PMID: 40301889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All study protocols concerning human samples were approved by the 
Medical Research Ethics Committee of Wellbeing Services County of North Savo 
(formerly Medical Research Ethics Committee of North Savo Hospital District). 
Access to biobank samples and participant recontacting were approved by the 
Scientific Steering Committees of Biobank of Eastern Finland (BB_2020 - 0062, 
BB23 - 0270) and Auria Biobank (BB_2020 - 0062). Written informed consent was 
obtained from all participants. The FinnGen study is approved by Finnish 
Institute for Health and Welfare (permit numbers: THL/2031/6.02.00/2017, 
THL/1101/5.05.00/2017, THL/341/6.02.00/2018, THL/2222/6.02.00/2018, 
THL/283/6.02.00/2019, THL/1721/5.05.00/2019 and THL/1524/5.05.00/2020), Digital 
and population data service agency (permit numbers: VRK43431/2017–3, 
VRK/6909/2018–3, VRK/4415/2019–3), the Social Insurance Institution (permit 
numbers: KELA 58/522/2017, KELA 131/522/2018, KELA 70/522/2019, KELA 
98/522/2019, KELA 134/522/2019, KELA 138/522/2019, KELA 2/522/2020, KELA 
16/522/2020), Findata (permit numbers THL/2364/14.02/2020, 
THL/4055/14.06.00/2020, THL/3433/14.06.00/2020, THL/4432/14.06/2020, 
THL/5189/14.06/2020, THL/5894/14.06.00/2020, THL/6619/14.06.00/2020, 
THL/209/14.06.00/2021, THL/688/14.06.00/2021, THL/1284/14.06.00/2021, 
THL/1965/14.06.00/2021, THL/5546/14.02.00/2020, THL/2658/14.06.00/2021, 
THL/4235/14.06.00/2021), Statistics Finland (permit numbers: TK- 53–1041 - 17 
and TK/143/07.03.00/2020 (earlier TK- 53–90 - 20) TK/1735/07.03.00/2021, 
TK/3112/07.03.00/2021) and Finnish Registry for Kidney Diseases 
(permission/extract from the meeting minutes on 4 th July 2019). The Biobank 
Access Decisions for FinnGen samples and data utilized in FinnGen Data Freeze 12 
include: THL Biobank BB2017_55, BB2017_111, BB2018_19, BB_2018_34, BB_2018_67, 
BB2018_71, BB2019_7, BB2019_8, BB2019_26, BB2020_1, BB2021_65, Finnish Red Cross 
Blood Service Biobank 7.12.2017, Helsinki Biobank HUS/359/2017, HUS/248/2020, 
HUS/430/2021 §28, §29, HUS/150/2022 §12, §13, §14, §15, §16, §17, §18, §23, §58, 
§59, HUS/128/2023 §18, Auria Biobank AB17 - 5154 and amendment #1 (August 17 
2020), Biobank Borealis of Northern Finland_2017_1013, 2021_5010, 2021_5010 
Amendment, 2021_5018, 2021_5018 Amendment, 2021_5015, 2021_5015 Amendment, 
2021_5015 Amendment_2, 2021_5023, 2021_5023 Amendment, 2021_5023 Amendment_2, 
2021_5017, 2021_5017 Amendment, 2022_6001, 2022_6001 Amendment, 2022_6006 
Amendment, 2022_6006 Amendment, 2022_6006 Amendment_2, BB22 - 0067, 2022_0262, 
2022_0262 Amendment, Biobank of Eastern Finland 1186/2018 and amendment 
22§/2020, 53§/2021, 13§/2022, 14§/2022, 15§/2022, 27§/2022, 28§/2022, 29§/2022, 
33§/2022, 35§/2022, 36§/2022, 37§/2022, 39§/2022, 7§/2023, 32§/2023, 33§/2023, 
34§/2023, 35§/2023, 36§/2023, 37§/2023, 38§/2023, 39§/2023, 40§/2023, 41§/2023, 
Finnish Clinical Biobank Tampere MH0004 and amendments (21.02.2020 & 
06.10.2020), BB2021 - 0140 8§/2021, 9§/2021, §9/2022, §10/2022, §12/2022, 
13§/2022, §20/2022, §21/2022, §22/2022, §23/2022, 28§/2022, 29§/2022, 30§/2022, 
31§/2022, 32§/2022, 38§/2022, 40§/2022, 42§/2022, 1§/2023, Central Finland 
Biobank 1–2017, BB_2021 - 0161, BB_2021 - 0169, BB_2021 - 0179, BB_2021 - 0170, 
BB_2022 - 0256, BB_2022 - 0262, BB22 - 0067, Decision allowing to continue data 
processing until 31 st Aug 2024 for projects: BB_2021 - 0179, BB22 
- 0067,BB_2022 - 0262, BB_2021 - 0170, BB_2021 - 0164, BB_2021 - 0161, and 
BB_2021 - 0169, and Terveystalo Biobank STB 2018001 and amendment 25 th Aug 
2020, Finnish Hematological Registry and Clinical Biobank decision 18 th June 
2021, Arctic biobank P0844: ARC_2021_1001. Consent for publication: Consent for 
publication was obtained from participants whose individual data is presented in 
the manuscript. Competing interests: CH collaborates with Denali Therapeutics 
and is a member of the advisory boards of AviadoBio and Cure Ventures. The other 
authors declare that they have no competing interests.


25. Nat Chem Biol. 2025 Jun;21(6):916-925. doi: 10.1038/s41589-025-01881-9. Epub 
2025 Apr 29.

Facile generation of drug-like conformational antibodies specific for amyloid 
fibrils.

Desai AA(#)(1)(2), Zupancic JM(#)(1)(2), Trzeciakiewicz H(3)(4), Gerson JE(4), 
DuBois KN(3), Skinner ME(4), Sharkey LM(4), McArthur N(5), Ferris SP(6), Bhatt 
NN(7)(8), Makowski EK(2)(9), Smith MD(1)(2), Chen H(1)(2)(9), Huang J(1)(2)(9), 
Jerez C(7)(8), Kuo YH(1)(2), Kane RS(5), Kanaan NM(3), Paulson HL(4)(10)(11), 
Tessier PM(12)(13)(14)(15)(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA.
(2)Biointerfaces Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Department of Translational Neuroscience, Michigan State University, Grand 
Rapids, MI, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(5)School of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering, Georgia Institute of 
Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(7)Mitchell Center for Neurodegenerative Disease, University of Texas Medical 
Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, 
USA.
(9)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA.
(10)Protein Folding Disease Initiative, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA.
(11)Michigan Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA.
(12)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA. ptessier@umich.edu.
(13)Biointerfaces Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. 
ptessier@umich.edu.
(14)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
MI, USA. ptessier@umich.edu.
(15)Protein Folding Disease Initiative, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA. ptessier@umich.edu.
(16)Michigan Alzheimer's Disease Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA. ptessier@umich.edu.
(17)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA. ptessier@umich.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2023 Jul 04:2023.07.04.547698. doi: 10.1101/2023.07.04.547698.

Antibodies that recognize insoluble antigens, such as amyloid fibrils associated 
with neurodegenerative disorders, are important for research, diagnostic and 
therapeutic applications. However, these types of antibodies are difficult to 
generate, typically require animal immunization and also commonly require 
humanization in the case of therapeutic applications. Here we report a 
methodology for generating high-quality, fully human, conformation-specific 
antibodies against amyloid fibrils using a published human nonimmune library, 
yeast-surface display and quantitative fluorescence-activated cell sorting. 
Notably, this approach enables the isolation of conformation-specific antibodies 
against tau fibrils (Alzheimer's disease) and α-synuclein fibrils (Parkinson's 
disease) with combinations of high affinity, high conformational specificity 
and, in some cases, low off-target binding that rival or exceed those of 
clinical-stage antibodies specific for tau (zagotenemab) and α-synuclein 
(cinpanemab). This approach is expected to simplify the generation of 
conformation-specific antibodies against diverse protein aggregates and other 
insoluble antigens.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41589-025-01881-9
PMID: 40301692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: P.M.T. is a member of the 
scientific advisory boards for Nabla Bio, Aureka Biotechnologies and Dualitas 
Therapeutics. The remaining authors declare no competing interests.


26. Nat Cardiovasc Res. 2025 May;4(5):602-623. doi: 10.1038/s44161-025-00635-z.
Epub  2025 Apr 29.

ARID5A orchestrates cardiac aging and inflammation through MAVS mRNA 
stabilization.

Fan Y(#)(1), Zheng Y(#)(2)(3), Zhang Y(#)(4), Xu G(#)(5)(6), Liu C(#)(7), Hu 
J(1)(3), Ji Q(2)(3), Zhang S(1)(3), Fang S(2)(3), Lei J(8), Li LZ(2)(3), Wang 
X(1)(3), Xu X(5)(6), Wang C(1)(3), Wang S(2)(8), Ma S(2)(3)(4)(9), Song 
M(2)(3)(4), Jiang W(10), Zhu J(10), Feng Y(11), Wang J(10), Yang Y(1)(3), Zhu 
G(12), Tian XL(13), Zhang H(10), Song W(11), Yang J(5)(6), Yao Y(14), Liu 
GH(15)(16)(17)(18)(19), Qu J(20)(21)(22)(23)(24), Zhang W(25)(26)(27).

Author information:
(1)China National Center for Bioinformation, Beijing Institute of Genomics, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Organ Regeneration and Reconstruction, Institute of 
Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(4)Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Beijing, China.
(5)Liver Transplant Center, Organ Transplant Center, West China Hospital of 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(6)Laboratory of Liver Transplantation, Key Laboratory of Transplant Engineering 
and Immunology, NHC, West China Hospital of Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(7)Department of Physiology and Medicine, Cardiovascular Center, Cancer Center, 
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA.
(8)Advanced Innovation Center for Human Brain Protection, and National Clinical 
Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(9)Aging Biomarker Consortium, Beijing, China.
(10)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(11)Oujiang Laboratory, Center for Geriatric Medicine and Institute of Aging, 
Key Laboratory of Alzheimer's Disease of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang Provincial 
Clinical Research for Mental Disorders, The First-affiliated Hospital, Wenzhou 
Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(12)Institute of Gerontology, Guangzhou Geriatric Hospital, Guangzhou Medical 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(13)Aging and Vascular Diseases, Human Aging Research Institute and School of 
Life Science, Nanchang University and Jiangxi Key Laboratory of Human Aging, 
Nanchang, China.
(14)Department of Cardiology, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China. iceyaya614@163.com.
(15)State Key Laboratory of Organ Regeneration and Reconstruction, Institute of 
Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. ghliu@ioz.ac.cn.
(16)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. ghliu@ioz.ac.cn.
(17)Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Beijing, China. 
ghliu@ioz.ac.cn.
(18)Advanced Innovation Center for Human Brain Protection, and National Clinical 
Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China. ghliu@ioz.ac.cn.
(19)Aging Biomarker Consortium, Beijing, China. ghliu@ioz.ac.cn.
(20)State Key Laboratory of Organ Regeneration and Reconstruction, Institute of 
Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. qujing@ioz.ac.cn.
(21)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. qujing@ioz.ac.cn.
(22)Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Beijing, China. 
qujing@ioz.ac.cn.
(23)Aging Biomarker Consortium, Beijing, China. qujing@ioz.ac.cn.
(24)Beijing Institute of Heart Lung and Blood Vessel Diseases, Beijing Anzhen 
Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. qujing@ioz.ac.cn.
(25)China National Center for Bioinformation, Beijing Institute of Genomics, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. zhangwq@big.ac.cn.
(26)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. 
zhangwq@big.ac.cn.
(27)Aging Biomarker Consortium, Beijing, China. zhangwq@big.ac.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Elucidating the regulatory mechanisms of human cardiac aging remains a great 
challenge. Here, using human heart tissues from 74 individuals ranging from 
young (≤35 years) to old (≥65 years), we provide an overview of the 
histological, cellular and molecular alterations underpinning the aging of human 
hearts. We decoded aging-related gene expression changes at single-cell 
resolution and identified increased inflammation as the key event, driven by 
upregulation of ARID5A, an RNA-binding protein. ARID5A epi-transcriptionally 
regulated Mitochondrial Antiviral Signaling Protein (MAVS) mRNA stability, 
leading to NF-κB and TBK1 activation, amplifying aging and inflammation 
phenotypes. The application of gene therapy using lentiviral vectors encoding 
shRNA targeting ARID5A into the myocardium not only mitigated the inflammatory 
and aging phenotypes but also bolstered cardiac function in aged mice. 
Altogether, our study provides a valuable resource and advances our 
understanding of cardiac aging mechanisms by deciphering the ARID5A-MAVS axis in 
post-transcriptional regulation.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s44161-025-00635-z
PMID: 40301689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


27. Sci Rep. 2025 Apr 29;15(1):15051. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-96531-4.

ApoE4 requires lipidation enhancement to resolve cellular lipid and protein 
abnormalities following NPC1 inhibition.

Di Biase E(1), Connolly KJ(1), Crumpton I(1), Cooper O(1), Hallett PJ(2), 
Isacson O(3).

Author information:
(1)Neuroregeneration Institute, McLean Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Belmont, MA, 02478, USA.
(2)Neuroregeneration Institute, McLean Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Belmont, MA, 02478, USA. phallett@mclean.harvard.edu.
(3)Neuroregeneration Institute, McLean Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Belmont, MA, 02478, USA. ole_isacson@hms.harvard.edu.

Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) variants are central to Alzheimer's disease (AD), Lewy 
body dementia (LBD) and Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC). The ApoE4 variant 
elevates AD risk by 3-15-fold. ApoE's normal function in lipid transport is 
known. The question remains how different ApoE isoforms cause cellular 
pathogenesis. We determined the effects of ApoE isoforms on lipid accumulation 
induced by inhibiting the endo-lysosomal cholesterol transporter NPC1. In human 
fibroblasts and astrocytes, NPC1 inhibition caused a 4-fold cholesterol 
accumulation and mis-localization with altered cholesterol sensing and increased 
synthesis of cholesterol and triglycerides. Total APP, APP C-terminal fragments 
(CTF) and BACE1 levels increased 3-fold. Remarkably, the intracellular neutral 
lipids co-localized with APP and APP C-terminal fragments. ApoE2 and ApoE3, but 
not ApoE4, reduced intracellular cholesterol levels by 67% and 62%, 
respectively, normalized APP, BACE, CTF, and improved cell survival. ApoE4 
combined with a synthetic lipopeptide, which increased the proportion of large 
lipidated ApoE4 particles, corrected these abnormalities. This highlights ApoE 
in lipid pathogenesis and targeting ApoE4 lipidation to restore ApoE4 function.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-96531-4
PMCID: PMC12041514
PMID: 40301465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


28. Sci Rep. 2025 Apr 29;15(1):14966. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-96256-4.

Ophthalmological manifestations and plasma markers of inflammation in Ebola 
survivors in post-treatment era.

Mwanza JC(1)(2), Kahindo AK(#)(3), Mbusa-Kombi J(#)(4), Mumbere MV(5), Kitenge 
RO(6), McIlwain DR(7), Mulangu JCS(8)(9), Mbala PK(8)(9), Okitundu D(4), 
Giordani BJ(10), Boivin MJ(11)(12), Sikorskii A(13), Kabedi NN(14), Shantha 
JG(15), Yeh S(16)(17), Mumba DN(8)(9), Tshala-Katumbay D(4)(8)(18).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 130 
Mason Farm Rd, Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA. jean-claude_mwanza@med.unc.edu.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Kinshasa, Kinshasa, Democratic 
Republic of the Congo. jean-claude_mwanza@med.unc.edu.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Catholic University of Graben, Butembo, 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
(4)Department of Neurology, University of Kinshasa, Kinshasa, Democratic 
Republic of the Congo.
(5)Department of Neurology & Psychiatry, Catholic University of Graben, Butembo, 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
(6)National Emergency Program, Ministry of Health, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic 
of the Congo.
(7)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Nevada, Reno, NV, 
USA.
(8)National Institute for Biomedical Research, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of 
the Congo.
(9)Department of Medical Biology, University of Kinshasa, Kinshasa, Democratic 
Republic of the Congo.
(10)Michigan Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI, USA.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA.
(12)Department of Psychiatry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(13)Department of Psychiatry, College of Osteopathic Medicine, Michigan State 
University, East Lansing, MI, USA.
(14)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Kinshasa, Kinshasa, Democratic 
Republic of the Congo.
(15)Department of Ophthalmology, F.I. Proctor Foundation, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(16)Truhlsen Eye Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 
USA.
(17)Department of Ophthalmology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(18)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health & Sciences University, Portland, OR, 
USA.
(#)Contributed equally

This study aimed to characterize ophthalmological manifestations and associated 
inflammatory markers in EVD survivors in post-treatment era. Case-control study 
of ophthalmological manifestations and plasma inflammatory biomarker profile in 
EVD survivors (n = 120) from the 2018-2020 outbreak in DRC, their gender- and 
age-matched close contacts (n = 120) and non-contact (healthy) controls 
(n = 120). Expressions of inflammatory markers were assessed using the Olink 
Explore 384 Assay and compared across study groups before and after 
stratification by treatment with monoclonal antibodies (mAB114, ZMapp, or 
Regeneron) or antiviral drug (Remdesivir). Protein profiling was carried out 
using the Olink statistical package. Mean age (years) was comparable among 
survivors (29.7 ± 10.6), close contacts (28.9 ± 11.1) and non-contact controls 
(29.3 ± 10.6) (p = 0.85). Mean time from disease onset to clinical assessment 
was 3.5 ± 0.5 (2.5-4.2) years in survivors. Optic neuropathy was more common in 
survivors (6.7%) than in close contacts (0.8%) and non-contacts (0.0%) 
(p = 0.003). Survivors with optic neuropathy had significantly worse visual 
acuity in both eyes than those without optic neuropathy (all p < 0.001). 
Clinical evidence of past anterior uveitis was observed in 2.5% of survivors, 
2.9% of close contacts, and 1.8% of healthy controls (p = 0.86). Plasma 
circulating DGKZ, INFGR1, ERBB3, and MICA-MICB showed differential expression 
patterns between survivors and controls (all p < 0.05). However, no clear 
separation could be detected on principal component analysis of multiplexed 
proteomic data between survivor and control samples. Three proteins (ITM2A, 
CLEC4D, NCLN) were differentially expressed and related to optic neuropathy. The 
comparison between treatment groups revealed a trend toward lower protein 
inflammatory markers in survivors treated with Remdesivir than those treated 
with monoclonal antibodies. We conclude that in treated EVD survivors, optic 
neuropathy was the only neuro-ophthalmologic abnormality. Uveitis was far less 
frequent than reported in West African cohorts. ITM2A, CLEC4D, and NCLN were 
differentially expressed in EVD survivors with optic neuropathy long after the 
acute phase of the infection. The true meaning of these findings will need 
further investigations.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-96256-4
PMCID: PMC12041595
PMID: 40301432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


29. Intern Med. 2025 Apr 26. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.5402-25. Online ahead
of  print.

Electroconvulsive Therapy Can Prevent a Worsening of Psychosis and Dystonic 
Voice in PRKN-associated Parkinson's Disease.

Tezuka T(1)(2)(3)(4), Daida K(4)(5)(6), Nakajima S(7), Konishi M(2)(7), Nihei 
Y(1)(2)(3), Funayama M(4)(8)(9), J Billingsley K(6), Blauwendraat C(5)(6), 
Hattori N(4)(9)(10), Uchida H(7), Nakahara J(1)(2)(3), Seki M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Keio University School of Medicine, Japan.
(2)Parkinson's Disease Center, Keio University Hospital, Japan.
(3)Center for Parkinson's disease Research, Keio University, Japan.
(4)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Juntendo University, Japan.
(5)Integrative Neurogenomics Unit, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National 
Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, USA.
(6)Center for Alzheimer's and Related Dementias (CARD), National Institute on 
Aging and National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National 
Institutes of Health, USA.
(7)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of Medicine, Japan.
(8)Research Institute for Diseases of Old Age, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Juntendo University, Japan.
(9)International Collaborative Research Administration, Juntendo University, 
Japan.
(10)Neurodegenerative Disorders Collaborative Laboratory, RIKEN Center for Brain 
Science, Japan.

Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), an established treatment for psychiatric 
disorders, shows promise in alleviating both motor and non-motor symptoms in 
patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). We herein report a case of 
PRKN-associated PD presenting with characteristic psychosis and dystonic voice, 
which was effectively managed with maintenance ECT. A genetic analysis initially 
identified a single heterozygous PRKN deletion using multiple ligation-probe 
amplification. Subsequent Oxford Nanopore technology long-read sequencing 
revealed a second pathogenic variant, confirming a compound heterozygous PRKN 
mutation. This case highlights the utility of long-read sequencing in resolving 
genetic diagnoses and the potential of maintenance ECT for managing complex PD 
phenotypes.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.5402-25
PMID: 40301042


30. Ann Fam Med. 2025 May 27;23(3):191-198. doi: 10.1370/afm.240293.

Feasibility and Acceptability of Implementing a Digital Cognitive Assessment for 
Alzheimer Disease and Related Dementias in Primary Care.

Fowler NR(1)(2)(3), Hammers DB(4), Perkins AJ(5), Summanwar D(6), Higbie 
A(2)(3), Swartzell K(7), Brosch JR(4), Willis DR(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
Indiana fowlern@iu.edu.
(2)Indiana University Center for Aging Research, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(3)Regenstrief Institute Inc, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(4)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
Indiana.
(5)Department of Biostatistics and Health Data Science, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(6)Department of Family Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, Indiana.
(7)School of Nursing, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana.

PURPOSE: We assessed the feasibility and acceptability of implementing a digital 
cognitive assessment (DCA) for Alzheimer disease and related dementias (ADRD) 
screening into primary care. We also assessed the prevalence of positive screens 
and measured diagnostic and care outcomes after a positive DCA result.
METHODS: We conducted a single-arm pragmatic clinical demonstration project in 7 
diverse primary care clinics to test implementation of the Linus Health Core 
Cognitive Evaluation and Digital Clock and Recall DCAs (Linus Health, Inc). 
Eligible patients were aged ≥65 years. Patients were ineligible if unable to see 
or hear, not English or Spanish speaking, or if they had a DCA in the past 12 
months with an unimpaired or impaired result.
RESULTS: There were 16,708 eligible encounters during the 12-month study period 
(June 2022-May 2023). A total of 1,808 DCAs (10.8%) were completed by 1,722 
unique patients; 3,727 (22.3%) declined, and at 9,232 encounters (55.3%) the 
physicians declined to have the patient complete the DCA or the encounter was 
deemed out of scope. Among those who completed DCAs, results for 762 (44.3%) 
were categorized as unimpaired, 628 (36.5%) borderline, 236 (13.7%) impaired, 
and 96 (5.6%) inconclusive. Among the 236 patients who were categorized as 
impaired, 2.1% received a new diagnosis of ADRD, and 5.1% received a new 
diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment within 90 days after the DCA.
CONCLUSIONS: One-half of all patients scored impaired or borderline for 
cognitive impairment. Digital cognitive assessments can be implemented in 
primary care, have utility for early detection, and could represent the first 
step in identification of patients who could benefit from ADRD disease-modifying 
therapeutics, care management, or other interventions to improve patient and 
family caregiver outcomes.

© 2025 Annals of Family Medicine, Inc.

DOI: 10.1370/afm.240293
PMCID: PMC12120163
PMID: 40300815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Ageing Res Rev. 2025 Jun;108:102758. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102758. Epub
2025  Apr 27.

Lipid droplets: Emerging therapeutic targets for age-related metabolic diseases.

Ma Z(1), Pan S(2), Yang Y(1), Ren H(1), Yin S(1), Chen Q(1), An Z(1), Zhao X(3), 
Xu Z(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Education and Health Engineering, Taiyuan University of 
Technology, Taiyuan, Shanxi 030024, China.
(2)Institute of Sports Biology, College of Physical Education, Shaanxi Normal 
University, Xi'an 710119, China.
(3)School of Physical Education and Health Engineering, Taiyuan University of 
Technology, Taiyuan, Shanxi 030024, China. Electronic address: 
zhaoxiaoqin@tyut.edu.cn.
(4)School of Physical Education and Health Engineering, Taiyuan University of 
Technology, Taiyuan, Shanxi 030024, China. Electronic address: zjxu2023@163.com.

Lipids metabolism is crucial in regulating aging and metabolic diseases. Lipid 
droplets (LDs) are dynamic, complex organelles responsible for the storage and 
release of neutral lipids, essential for maintaining lipid homeostasis and 
energy metabolism. Aging accelerates the accumulation of LDs, functional 
deterioration, and metabolic disorders, thereby inducing age-related metabolic 
diseases (ARMDs). This review examines published datasets on the association 
between LDs and ARMDs, focusing on the structure and function of LDs, their 
interactions with other organelles, and associated proteins. Furthermore, we 
explore the potential mechanisms by which LDs mediate the onset of ARMDs, 
including Alzheimer's disease (AD), sarcopenia, metabolic cardiomyopathy, 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and cancer. Lastly, we discuss 
intervention strategies aimed at targeting LDs to improve outcomes in ARMDs, 
including exercise, dietary, and pharmacological interventions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2025.102758
PMID: 40300696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


32. Am J Vet Res. 2025 Apr 29;86(8):ajvr.25.02.0053. doi:
10.2460/ajvr.25.02.0053.  Print 2025 Aug 1.

Recent advances in diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for canine cognitive 
dysfunction.

Kim SH, Hao J.

Canine cognitive dysfunction (CCD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder among 
geriatric dogs, characterized by disorientation, interaction changes, sleep-wake 
cycle disturbances, house soiling, activity level changes, and anxiety. Canine 
cognitive dysfunction is currently underdiagnosed due to the lack of an 
objective and reliable diagnostic tool, and treatment options are severely 
limited. Importantly, CCD shares common pathological hallmarks of human 
Alzheimer disease, such as β-amyloid accumulation, τ protein phosphorylation, 
neuronal loss, and neuroinflammation. β-Amyloid deposits in Alzheimer disease 
and CCD appear in 2 main forms: extracellular amyloid plaques, which disrupt 
synaptic function and contribute to neurotoxicity, and cerebral amyloid 
angiopathy, where β-amyloid accumulates in the walls of cerebral blood vessels. 
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy leads to vascular dysfunction, chronic hypoxia, 
microhemorrhages, and neuroinflammation, further exacerbating cognitive decline. 
Research into these shared pathologies offers potential therapeutic targets that 
could benefit both canine and human patients suffering from these 
neurodegenerative disorders. In this article, we review the latest understanding 
of CCD pathology and discuss new advancements in diagnostic and therapeutic 
options as well as the outlook of the CCD disorder.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.25.02.0053
PMID: 40300622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Cell. 2025 Jul 10;188(14):3775-3788.e21. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2025.04.006.
Epub  2025 Apr 28.

Alzheimer's disease patient-derived high-molecular-weight tau impairs bursting 
in hippocampal neurons.

Harris SS(1), Ellingford R(2), Hartmann J(2), Dasgupta D(2), Kehring M(2), 
Rajani RM(3), Graykowski D(2), Quittot N(4), Sivasankaran D(4), Commins C(4), 
Fan Z(4), Bond SA(2), Wolf F(5), Dupret D(6), Dolan RJ(7), Konnerth A(8), Neef 
A(5), Hyman BT(4), Busche MA(9).

Author information:
(1)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London, UK. 
Electronic address: samuel.harris@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London, UK.
(3)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London, UK; 
British Heart Foundation - UK Dementia Research Institute Centre for Vascular 
Dementia Research at The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Charlestown, MA, USA.
(5)Göttingen Campus Institute for Dynamics of Biological Networks, Göttingen, 
Germany.
(6)Medical Research Council Brain Network Dynamics Unit, Nuffield Department of 
Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(7)Max Planck UCL Centre for Computational Psychiatry and Ageing Research, 
London, UK.
(8)Institute of Neuroscience, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany; 
Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, London, UK; 
Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, University Hospital of Geriatric 
Medicine FELIX PLATTER and University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; Department 
of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
m.busche@ucl.ac.uk.

Tau accumulation is closely related to cognitive symptoms in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). However, the cellular drivers of tau-dependent decline of memory-based 
cognition remain elusive. Here, we employed in vivo Neuropixels and patch-clamp 
recordings in mouse models and demonstrate that tau, independent of β-amyloid, 
selectively debilitates complex-spike burst firing of CA1 hippocampal neurons, a 
fundamental cellular mechanism underpinning learning and memory. Impaired 
bursting was associated with altered hippocampal network activities that are 
coupled to burst firing patterns (i.e., theta rhythms and high-frequency 
ripples) and was concurrent with reduced neuronal expression of CaV2.3 calcium 
channels, which are essential for burst firing in vivo. We subsequently identify 
soluble high molecular weight (HMW) tau, isolated from human AD brain, as the 
tau species responsible for suppression of burst firing. These data provide a 
cellular mechanism for tau-dependent cognitive decline in AD and implicate a 
rare species of intracellular HMW tau as a therapeutic target.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2025.04.006
PMCID: PMC12255526
PMID: 40300603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests B.T.H. owns stock in 
Novartis; he serves on the scientific advisory board of Dewpoint and has an 
option for stock. He serves on a scientific advisory board or is a consultant 
for AbbVie, Alexion, Ambagon, Aprinoia Therapeutics, Arvinas, Avrobio, 
AstraZeneca, Biogen, BMS, Cure Alz Fund, Cell Signalling, Dewpoint, Latus, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, Sofinnova, Vigil, Violet, Voyager, and WaveBreak. His 
laboratory is in part supported by a sponsored research agreement from AbbVie. 
C.C. is currently employed at AbbVie.


34. R I Med J (2013). 2025 May 1;108(5):26-31.

From Acute Confusion to Chronic Decline: The Cognitive Impact of Delirium in 
Older Adults.

Hameed F(1), Sanborn V(1), Nester C(2), Daiello LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, RI; Rhode Island Hospital Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders 
Center.
(2)Rhode Island Hospital Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders Center; 
Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Warren Alpert Medical School of 
Brown University, Providence, RI.

Delirium is prevalent in healthcare settings, leaving susceptible older adults 
at risk for persistent cognitive impairment, prolonged care needs, morbidity, 
and mortality. In older adult patients, delirium often arises from acute medical 
illnesses, infections, medications, and comorbidities, with age and underlying 
dementia increasing susceptibility. Its complex pathophysiology involves 
systemic inflammation, neurotransmitter dysregulation, disrupted brain 
metabolism, and physiological cycle disturbances. While delirium causes acute 
cognitive impairments, patients are often left with persistent dysfunction. 
Moreover, patients with pre-existing cognitive impairment are at higher risk for 
developing dementia or accelerated cognitive decline in the wake of a delirium 
episode. Delirium also worsens long-term quality of life, increasing risk for 
functional disability and need for institutional care. Prevention and management 
strategies focus on prophylaxis, early intervention, multicomponent programs, 
and pharmacological interventions, while ongoing research seeks to identify 
biomarkers and improve delirium detection and long-term management.

PMID: 40300055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. IEEE Trans Neural Syst Rehabil Eng. 2025;33:1664-1672. doi: 
10.1109/TNSRE.2025.3565627. Epub 2025 May 5.

Classification of Neuropsychiatric Disorders via Brain-Region-Selected Graph 
Convolutional Network.

Qin Z, Li Y, Song X, Chai L.

For the classification of patients with neuropsychiatric disorders based on 
rs-fMRI data, this paper proposed a Brain-Region-Selected graph convolutional 
network (BRS-GCN). In order to effectively identify the most significant 
biomarkers associated with disease, we designed a novel ROI pooling score 
function. Additionally, we also designed a comprehensive loss function, 
including a group-level consistency loss function for preserving the same brain 
regions in subjects of the same category, and an anti-consistency function for 
maximizing brain region preservation differences between subjects of different 
categories. On the basis of the ROI graph, we directly incorporate the 
non-imaging information of the subjects in the network training. Experimental 
results on two public datasets, ABIDE and ADNI, validate the superiority of the 
model proposed in this paper, and the qualitative results of the biomarkers 
demonstrate the potential application of the model in medical diagnosis and 
treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1109/TNSRE.2025.3565627
PMID: 40299731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Sep;62(9):11560-11571. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04996-1.
Epub  2025 Apr 29.

Genome-Wide Association Study of Glucocerebrosidase Activity Modifiers.

Somerville EN(1)(2), Krohn L(1)(2), Senkevich K(1)(3), Yu E(1)(2), Ahmad 
J(1)(3), Asayesh F(1)(3), Ruskey JA(1)(3), Spiegelman D(1)(3), Fahn S(4), Waters 
C(4), Sardi SP(5), Alcalay RN(4)(6), Gan-Or Z(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)The Neuro (Montréal Neurological Institute-Hospital), McGill University, 
Montréal, QC, Canada.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(3)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, 1033 Pine Avenue 
WestRoom 312, Ludmer PavilionMontréal, QC, H3 A 1 A1, Canada.
(4)Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Rare and Neurological Diseases Therapeutic Area, Sanofi, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(6)Taub Institute for Research On Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(7)The Neuro (Montréal Neurological Institute-Hospital), McGill University, 
Montréal, QC, Canada. ziv.gan-or@mcgill.ca.
(8)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montréal, QC, Canada. 
ziv.gan-or@mcgill.ca.
(9)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, 1033 Pine Avenue 
WestRoom 312, Ludmer PavilionMontréal, QC, H3 A 1 A1, Canada. 
ziv.gan-or@mcgill.ca.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 Jun 07:rs.3.rs-4425669. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-4425669/v1.

One of the most common genetic risk factors for Parkinson's disease (PD) is 
variants in GBA1, which encodes the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase (GCase). 
GCase deficiency has been associated with an increased PD risk, but not all 
individuals with low GCase activity are carriers of GBA1 mutations, suggesting 
other factors may be acting as modifiers. We aimed to discover common variants 
associated with GCase activity, as well as replicate previously reported 
associations, by performing a genome-wide association study using two 
independent cohorts: a Columbia University cohort consisting of 697 PD cases and 
347 controls and the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) cohort 
consisting of 357 PD cases and 163 controls. As expected, GBA1 variants have the 
strongest association with decreased activity, led by N370S (beta =  - 4.36, 
se = 0.32, p = 5.05e - 43). We also identify a novel association in the GAA 
locus (encoding for acid alpha-glucosidase, beta =  - 0.96, se = 0.17, 
p = 5.23e - 09) that may be the result of an interaction between GCase and acid 
alpha-glucosidase based on various interaction analyses. Lastly, we show that 
several PD-risk loci are potentially associated with GCase activity. Further 
research will be needed to replicate and validate our findings and to uncover 
the functional connection between acid alpha-glucosidase and GCase.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04996-1
PMCID: PMC12367946
PMID: 40299299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent to Publish: All authors 
have read and consented to publish this manuscript. Competing Interests: Z.G.O 
received consultancy fees from Lysosomal Therapeutics Inc. (LTI), Idorsia, 
Prevail Therapeutics, Ono Therapeutics, Denali, Handl Therapeutics, Neuron23, 
Bial Biotech, Bial, UCB, Capsida, Vanqua bio, Congruence Therapeutics, Takeda, 
Jazz Guidepoint, Lighthouse and Deerfield. Ethics Approval and Consent to 
Participate: Informed consent forms were signed by all participants prior to 
entering their respective studies, and the study protocol was approved by the 
institutional review boards.


37. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2025 Apr 29;20(1):47. doi:
10.1007/s11481-025-10210-9.

Unraveling the Immune Puzzle: Role of Immunomodulation in Alzheimer's Disease.

Ashvin(1), Dhapola R(1), Kumari S(1), Sharma P(1), Vellingiri B(2), Medhi B(3), 
HariKrishnaReddy D(4).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Pharmacology and Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of 
Pharmacology, School of Health Sciences, Central University of Punjab, Ghudda, 
Bathinda, Punjab, 151401, India.
(2)Human Cytogenetics and Stem Cell Laboratory, Department of Zoology, School of 
Basic Sciences, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, Punjab, 151401, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, 160012, India.
(4)Advanced Pharmacology and Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of 
Pharmacology, School of Health Sciences, Central University of Punjab, Ghudda, 
Bathinda, Punjab, 151401, India. harikrishnareddy0011@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder with growing 
evidence highlighting the dual role of immunomodulation in its pathogenesis and 
potential therapeutic strategies. Disturbance in the immune system increases the 
inflammatory cytokines that cause tau hyperphosphorylation and 
neuroinflammation. Also, immune checkpoint inhibition further increases the 
amyloid-beta deposition. Therefore, this review examines the intricate interplay 
between the immune system and AD, focusing on how immunomodulatory mechanisms 
influence key pathological hallmarks, including amyloid-beta aggregation, tau 
hyperphosphorylation, neuroinflammation, and cholinergic dysfunction. We analyse 
critical signaling pathways involved in immune regulation, such as Toll-like 
receptor (TLR), Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription 
(JAK/STAT), phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt (PI3K/Akt), Wnt/β-catenin, tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF), and triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 
(TREM), along with immune checkpoints like programmed cell death protein 1 
(PD-1). Preclinical studies of immunomodulatory agents, including salidroside, 
festidinol, astragalin, sulforaphane, BM-MSC, simvastatin, Ab-T1, hTREM2, and 
XENP345, demonstrate promising effects. Additionally, clinical investigations of 
drugs such as simufilam, AL002, TB006, VGL101, DNL919, XPro1595, astragalus, and 
IBC-Ab002 underscore the therapeutic potential of targeting immune pathways in 
AD. This review emphasizes how neuroinflammation, microglial activation, and 
peripheral immune responses contribute to disease progression. By exploring 
immunomodulatory mechanisms, the article sheds light on potential therapeutic 
targets that could help mitigate AD pathology which may pave the way for novel 
interventions preventing neurodegeneration in AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-025-10210-9
PMID: 40299221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Yes. Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Competing 
Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


38. Mol Biol Rep. 2025 Apr 29;52(1):436. doi: 10.1007/s11033-025-10542-y.

Unraveling the role of CGRP in neurological diseases: a comprehensive 
exploration to pathological mechanisms and therapeutic implications.

Sarkar S(1), Porel P(2), Kosey S(1), Aran KR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, 
142001, India.
(2)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, 142001, India.
(3)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, 142001, India. bishalarann@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), 
Multiple sclerosis (MS), Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Spinal 
muscular atrophy (SMA) are neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) characterized by 
progressive neuronal degeneration. Recent studies provide compelling information 
regarding the contribution of Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide (CGRP), a potent 
neuropeptide, in regulating neuroinflammation, vasodilation, and neuronal 
survival in these disorders. This review systematically delves into the 
multidimensional aspects of CGRP as both a neuroprotective agent and a 
neurotoxic factor in NDDs. The neuroprotective effects of CGRP include 
suppression of inflammation, regulation of intracellular signaling pathways, and 
promotion of neuronal growth and survival. However, under pathological 
conditions, its overexpression or dysregulation is associated with oxidative 
stress, excitotoxicity, and neuronal death. The therapeutic use of CGRP and its 
receptor antagonists in migraine provides substantial evidence for CGRP's 
therapeutic potential, which can be further explored for the management of NDDs. 
However, since the bidirectional nature of CGRP effects is evident, it is 
crucial to gain an accurate insight into its mechanisms to target only the 
neuropeptide's beneficial effects while completely avoiding the undesired 
consequences. Further studies should focus on understanding the 
context-dependent activity of CGRP in the hope of designing targeted therapy for 
NDDs, which could gradually transform the current pharmacological management of 
NDDs.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-025-10542-y
PMID: 40299101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: Not applicable. Consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable.


39. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2025 Jul 1;32(7):1110-1119. doi:
10.1093/jamia/ocaf062.

External validation of a proprietary risk model for 1-year mortality in 
community-dwelling adults aged 65 years or older.

Frechman E(1), Jaeger BC(2), Kowalkowski M(3)(4)(5), Williamson JD(1), Lenoir 
KM(2)(4)(5), Palakshappa JA(6), Wells BJ(2), Callahan KE(1), Pajewski 
NM(2)(4)(5), Gabbard JL(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Section on Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, 
United States.
(2)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, Wake Forest University School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, United States.
(3)Section on Hospital Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Wake Forest 
University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, United States.
(4)Center for Health System Sciences (CHASSIS), Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, United States.
(5)Center for Health System Sciences (CHASSIS), Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Atrium Heath, Charlotte, NC, Charlotte, NC 28203, United States.
(6)Section on Pulmonary, Critical Care, Allergy, and Immunologic Diseases, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC, United States.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the discrimination, calibration, and algorithmic fairness 
of the Epic End of Life Care Index (EOL-CI).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We assessed the EOL-CI's performance by estimating area 
under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), sensitivity, and 
positive and negative predictive values in community-dwelling adults ≥65 years 
of age in a single health system in the Southeastern United States. Algorithmic 
fairness was examined by comparing the model's performance across sex, race, and 
ethnicity subgroups. Using a machine learning approach, we also explored local 
re-calibration of the EOL-CI considering additional information on past 
hospitalizations and frailty.
RESULTS: Among 215 731 patients (median age = 74 years, 57% female, 12% of Black 
race), 10% were classified as medium risk (15-44) and 3% as high risk (≥45) by 
the EOL-CI. The observed 1-year mortality rate was 3%. The EOL-CI had an AUC 
0.82 for 1-year mortality, with a positive predictive value of 22%. Predictive 
performance was generally similar across sex and race subgroups, though the 
EOL-CI displayed better performance with increasing age and in older adults with 
2 or more outpatient encounters in the past 24 months. Local re-calibration of 
the EOL-CI was required to provide absolute estimates of mortality risk, and 
calibration was further improved when the EOL-CI was augmented with data on 
inpatient hospitalizations and frailty.
DISCUSSION: The EOL-CI demonstrates reasonable discrimination, albeit with 
better performance in older adults and in those with greater health system 
contact.
CONCLUSION: Local refinement and calibration of the EOL-CI score is required to 
provide direct estimates of prognosis, with the goal of making the EOL-CI a more 
a valuable tool at the point of care for identifying patients who would benefit 
from targeted palliative care interventions and proactive care planning.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
American Medical Informatics Association.

DOI: 10.1093/jamia/ocaf062
PMCID: PMC12199354
PMID: 40298901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare.


40. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Apr 17;14(4):483. doi: 10.3390/antiox14040483.

Xanthine Oxidoreductase: A Double-Edged Sword in Neurological Diseases.

Bortolotti M(1), Polito L(1), Battelli MG(1), Bolognesi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences-DIMEC, Alma Mater Studiorum, 
University of Bologna, Via San Giacomo 14, 40126 Bologna, Italy.

Non-communicable neurological disorders are the second leading cause of death, 
and their burden continues to increase as the world population grows and ages. 
Oxidative stress and inflammation are crucially implicated in the triggering and 
progression of multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis, Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, and even stroke. In this 
narrative review, we examine the role of xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR) 
activities and products in all the above-cited neurological diseases. The redox 
imbalance responsible for oxidative stress could arise from excess reactive 
oxygen and nitrogen species resulting from the activities of XOR, as well as 
from the deficiency of its main product, uric acid (UA), which is the pivotal 
antioxidant system in the blood. In fact, with the exception of stroke, serum UA 
levels are inversely related to the onset and progression of these neurological 
disorders. The inverse correlation observed between the level of uricemia and 
the presence of neurological diseases suggests a neuroprotective role for UA. 
Oxidative stress and inflammation are also caused by ischemia and reperfusion, a 
condition in which XOR action has been recognized as a contributing factor to 
tissue damage. The findings reported in this review could be useful for 
addressing clinical decision-making and treatment optimization.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14040483
PMCID: PMC12024114
PMID: 40298821

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


41. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Apr 5;14(4):440. doi: 10.3390/antiox14040440.

Dichloromethane Extract from Amburana cearensis (Allemão) A.C. Sm. Seeds and Its 
Coumarin Reduce ROS Production and Protect PC12 Cells Against Glutamate 
Excitotoxicity and Oxygen-Glucose Deprivation.

Sanches FS(1), Ramos FDS(1), Costa CCOS(1), Nascimento RPD(1), Souza BSF(2)(3), 
Costa MFD(1), Costa SL(1), Ribeiro PR(4), Ferreira RS(1), Silva VDAD(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurochemistry and Cell Biology, Department of Biochemistry and 
Biophysics, Institute of Health Sciences, Federal University of Bahia (UFBA), 
Salvador 40110-902, Bahia, Brazil.
(2)Gonçalo Moniz Institute, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation (FIOCRUZ), Salvador 
40296-710, Bahia, Brazil.
(3)D'Or Institute for Research and Education (IDOR), Salvador 41253-190, Bahia, 
Brazil.
(4)Metabolomics Research Group, Department of Organic Chemistry, Chemistry 
Institute, Federal University of Bahia (UFBA), Salvador 40110-902, Bahia, 
Brazil.

Amburana cearensis is a plant native to Brazil used in folk medicine for the 
treatment of several pathological conditions including stroke. Previous research 
indicates that a dichloromethane extract of A. cearensis seeds (EDAC), rich in 
coumarins, protects neural cells against oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) 
and glutamate-induced stress. However, further studies are needed to elucidate 
the role of coumarin, in the protective effect of EDAC. Glutamatergic 
excitotoxicity is an important cause of neuronal loss involved in the 
pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
and ischemic stroke. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the protective 
effects of coumarin isolated from EDAC against glutamate excitotoxicity in 
regulating MAPK pathway proteins and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production on 
PC12 cells. Furthermore, we aimed to investigate the protective effects of 
coumarin against cell death induced by OGD. We characterized the isolated 
compound from EDAC as coumarin by 1H and 13C-NMR. Thus, PC12 cells were exposed 
to OGD or glutamate (20 mM) and/or treated with EDAC or coumarin (500 μg/mL) for 
24 h. Subsequently, cell viability was assessed by propidium iodide staining or 
by MTT test. Furthermore, the expression of MAPK pathway proteins was 
investigated by Western blot analysis and the expression of cleaved caspase-3 by 
immunofluorescence. Furthermore, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was 
assessed by 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein diacetate and CellROX. We observed that 
EDAC and coumarin were able to protect PC12 cells against OGD conditions. 
Moreover, EDAC totally inhibited the glutamate toxicity in PC12 cells. 
Meanwhile, coumarin mitigated the glutamate toxicity. Both were able to 
downregulate the expression of ERK1/2 and phosphorylated ERK and inhibit 
caspase-3 activation. EDAC and coumarin also prevented the increase of ROS 
induced by treatment with H2O2 or glutamate. Our results evidenced that coumarin 
from A. cearensis is antioxidative and is an important cytoprotective compound 
in EDAC against glutamate excitotoxicity or OGD injury.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14040440
PMCID: PMC12024252
PMID: 40298820

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest, 
including personal or financial.


42. J Neurophysiol. 2025 Jun 1;133(6):1861-1885. doi: 10.1152/jn.00530.2024. Epub
 2025 Apr 29.

Discovery of the Aβ receptor that controls the voltage-gated sodium channel 
activity: unraveling mechanisms underlying neuronal hyperexcitability.

Saito ML(1), Sasaki T(2), Saito MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Ion Chat Research Corporation, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University, 
Suita, Osaka, Japan.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by a gradual decline in memory and 
cognitive abilities, often accompanied by personality changes and impairments in 
motor functions. Increased neuronal activity in AD patients is associated with 
the symptoms of the disease, suggesting a link between hyperactivity and 
cognitive decline. In particular, amyloid beta peptides (Aβs), which are 
implicated in AD, have been found to enhance voltage-gated sodium channels 
(VGSCs), crucial for generating nerve impulses. However, the exact mechanisms 
underlying this interaction remain poorly understood. Therefore, it is crucial 
to identify the membrane receptor that binds to Aβ and regulates VGSC activity. 
In this report, we employed the patch-clamp method to monitor alterations in 
VGSCs induced by Aβ. Through gene silencing and antibody treatment, we 
determined that the receptor responsible for regulating VGSCs corresponds to the 
type I taste receptor (T1R2/T1R3). Our discovery not only advances the 
understanding of Aβ's physiological role but also opens avenues for developing 
molecules that can inhibit or alter Aβ binding, potentially regulating neuronal 
hyperactivity in AD.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Alzheimer's disease (AD) is marked by 
memory loss and cognitive decline, with neuronal hyperactivity linked to amyloid 
beta peptides (Aβs) that enhance sodium channels. Using patch-clamp techniques, 
we determined that the receptor for Aβ corresponds to the type I taste receptor 
(T1R2/T1R3). This discovery reveals Aβ's physiological roles and offers a new 
molecular target for developing therapies to inhibit or modify Aβ binding, 
potentially regulating neurohyperactivity in AD.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00530.2024
PMID: 40298589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Stroke. 2025 Aug;56(8):2233-2244. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.124.050002. Epub
2025  Apr 29.

Arteriolosclerosis in CNS Tissues Outside the Cerebrum and Late-Life Motor 
Impairment.

Oveisgharan S(1)(2), Agrawal S(1)(3), Yu L(1)(2), Leurgans SE(1)(2), Hausdorff 
JM(1)(4)(5)(6), Bennett DA(1)(2), Schneider JA(1)(2)(3), Buchman AS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center (S.O., S.A., L.Y., S.E.L., J.M.H., D.A.B., 
J.A.S., A.S.B.), Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL.
(2)Department of Neurological Sciences (S.O., L.Y., S.E.L., D.A.B., J.A.S., 
A.S.B.), Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL.
(3)Department of Pathology (S.A., J.A.S.), Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL.
(4)Department of Orthopedic Surgery (J.M.H.), Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL.
(5)Center for the Study of Movement, Cognition, and Mobility, Neurological 
Institute, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Israel (J.M.H.).
(6)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, Sagol 
School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Israel (J.M.H.).

BACKGROUND: The pathological basis underlying motor impairment in older adults 
is partially accounted for by Alzheimer disease and related dementias 
pathologies. We tested the hypothesis that arteriolosclerosis, a pathological 
correlate of small vessel disease, outside the cerebrum is related to motor 
impairment in older adults above and beyond Alzheimer disease and related 
dementias pathologies.
METHODS: The data were from decedents of a community-based clinical-autopsy 
study. Arteriolosclerosis was assessed in the cerebrum (as 1 of 10 Alzheimer 
disease and related dementias pathologies), midbrain, cerebellum, pons, and 4 
levels of the spinal cord. Parkinsonism was assessed using the Unified Parkinson 
Disease Rating Scale. Other motor performances included timed-peg placement and 
finger tapping, grip and pinch strength, walking 8 ft and turning 360° twice, 
and sensor-derived metrics assessing tandem walk. Multivariate linear regression 
models were used to examine the association of arteriolosclerosis across varied 
motor performances.
RESULTS: The participants (n=403) were on average 91.4 (6.1) years old at death, 
and 73.2% (n=295) were women. The frequency of moderate/severe 
arteriolosclerosis varied outside the cerebrum, ranging from 15.5% (40/258) in 
the pons to 49.6% (200/403) in the spinal cord. The correlation of the severity 
of arteriolosclerosis between these regions ranged from unrelated to modestly 
related. Spinal arteriolosclerosis was associated with impaired motor function 
(P=0.006), in particular more severe parkinsonism (estimate, 0.170; SE, 0.071; 
P=0.018) and less hand dexterity (estimate, -0.022; SE, 0.009; P=0.014). 
Arteriolosclerosis of the cerebellum was associated with impaired tandem walk 
(P=0.012), in particular more variability in the acceleration signal in the 
mediolateral direction (estimate, 0.023; SE, 0.011; P=0.040). Arteriolosclerosis 
in the pons or midbrain was not associated with motor performances.
CONCLUSIONS: Arteriolosclerosis severity varies in the central nervous system 
tissues outside of the cerebrum and is differentially associated with varied 
motor performances, suggesting that the adverse motor consequences of small 
vessel disease in older adults may be underestimated by studies focusing only on 
the brain.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.124.050002
PMCID: PMC12303751
PMID: 40297893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


44. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Apr 7:rs.3.rs-6257332. doi:
10.21203/rs.3.rs-6257332/v1.

Identifying Alzheimer's Disease Progression Subphenotypes via a Graph-based 
Framework using Electronic Health Records.

Huang Y(1), Xu J(2), Fan Z(2), Hu Y(2), He X(1), Chen A(2), Liu Y(1), Yin R(2), 
Guo J(2), DeKosky ST(2), Jaffee M(2), Zhou M(3), Su C(4), Wang F(4), Guo Y(2), 
Bian J(1).

Author information:
(1)Indiana University.
(2)University of Florida.
(3)Cornell University.
(4)Weill Cornell Medicine.

PURPOSE: Understanding the heterogeneity of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) development, as well as identifying AD progression pathways, is 
vital for enhancing diagnosis, treatment, prognosis, and prevention strategies. 
To identify disease progression subphenotypes in patients with mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) and AD using electronic health records (EHRs).
METHODS: We identified patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD from 
the electronic health records from the OneFlorida+ Clinical Research Consortium. 
We proposed an outcome-oriented graph neural network-based model to identify 
progression pathways from MCI to AD.
RESULTS: Of the included 2,525 patients, 61.66% were female, and the mean age 
was 76. In this cohort, 64.83% were Non-Hispanic White (NHW), 16.48% were 
Non-Hispanic Black (NHB), and 2.53% were of other races. Additionally, there 
were 274 Hispanic patients, accounting for 10.85% of the total patient 
population. The average duration from the first MCI diagnosis to the transition 
to AD was 891 days. We identified four progression subphenotypes, each with 
distinct characteristics. The average progression times from MCI to AD varied 
among these subphenotypes, ranging from 805 to 1,236 days.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest that AD does not follow uniform transitions of 
disease states but rather exhibits heterogeneous progression pathways. Our 
proposed framework holds the potential to identify AD progression subphenotypes, 
providing valuable and explainable insights for the development of the disease.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6257332/v1
PMCID: PMC12036456
PMID: 40297697

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest relevant to the study.


45. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Apr 10:2025.04.08.25325485. doi: 
10.1101/2025.04.08.25325485.

Investigating Primary Care Indications to Improve the Quality of Electronic 
Health Record Data in Target Trial Emulation for Dementia.

Sunog M(1), Magdamo C(2), Charpignon ML(3), Albers M(4).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, US.
(2)Harvard Medical School, US.
(3)Institute for Data, Systems, and Society, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology & Computational Health Informatics Program, Boston Children's 
Hospital & Harvard Medical School, US.
(4)Massachusetts General Hospital & Harvard Medical School, US.

Missing data, inaccuracies in medication lists, and recording delays in 
electronic health records (EHR) are major limitations for target trial emulation 
(TTE), which uses EHR data to retrospectively emulate a clinical trial. 
EHR-based TTE relies on recorded data that proxy actual drug exposures and 
outcomes. While prior work has proposed various methods to improve EHR data 
quality, here we investigate the underutilized consideration that encounters 
with a primary care provider (PCP) may result in more accurate data in the EHR. 
Patients with a PCP within the EHR network being studied tend to have more 
encounters overall and a greater proportion of the types of encounters that 
yield comprehensive and up-to-date records. By contrasting data for patients 
with and without a PCP in the considered EHR network, we demonstrate how PCP 
status affects EHR data quality. Through a case study, we then empirically 
examine the impact on TTE of including a PCP status feature either in the 
propensity score and outcome models or as an eligibility criterion for cohort 
selection, versus ignoring it. Specifically, we compare the estimated effects of 
two first-line antidiabetic drug classes on the onset of Alzheimer's Disease and 
Related Dementias. We find that the estimated treatment effect is sensitive to 
the consideration of PCP status, particularly when used as an eligibility 
criterion. Our work suggests that further researching the role of PCP status may 
improve the design of pragmatic trials.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.04.08.25325485
PMCID: PMC12036400
PMID: 40297460


46. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Apr 11:2025.04.11.25325572. doi: 
10.1101/2025.04.11.25325572.

Does COMT Play a Role in Parkinson's Disease Susceptibility Across Diverse 
Ancestral Populations?

Martín-Bórnez M(1)(2), Shar N(3)(4), Nour MA(5), Murphy D(3), Elsayed I(6)(7), 
Megha SN(8), Nwaokorie F(9), Olusanya A(10), Kuznetsov N(11)(12), Bandres-Ciga 
S(11), Noyce AJ(13), Iwaki H(11)(12), Jones L(11)(12), Gómez-Garre P(1)(2), Mir 
P(1)(2)(14), Periñan MT(1)(2)(13).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Trastornos del Movimiento, Servicio de Neurología, Instituto de 
Biomedicina de Sevilla, Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío/CSIC/Universidad 
de Sevilla, Seville, Spain.
(2)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of clinical and Movement Neurosciences, UCL Queen Square Institute 
of Neurology, London WC1N 3BG, UK.
(4)NED University of Engineering & Technology, Karachi, Pakistan.
(5)UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain Sciences, UK.
(6)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Gezira, Wadmedani, Sudan.
(7)Systems Biology Ireland, School of Medicine and Medical Science, University 
College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(8)Department of Neurology, National Institute of Mental Health and 
Neurosciences, India.
(9)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, 
College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Nigeria.
(10)Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Toxicology, Faculty of Basic 
Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Nigeria.
(11)Center for Alzheimer's and Related Dementias (CARD), National Institute on 
Aging and National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(12)Data Tecnica, Washington DC, USA.
(13)Center for Preventive Neurology, Wolfson Institute of Population Health, 
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK.
(14)Departamento de Medicina, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Sevilla, 
Seville, Spain.

Update in
    Mov Disord. 2025 Sep 23. doi: 10.1002/mds.70040.

BACKGROUND: The catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene is involved in brain 
catecholamine metabolism, but its association with Parkinson's disease (PD) risk 
remains unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relationship between COMT genetic variants and PD 
risk across diverse ancestries.
METHODS: We analyzed COMT variants in 2,251 PD patients and 2,835 controls of 
European descent using whole-genome sequencing from the Accelerating Medicines 
Partnership-Parkinson Disease (AMP-PD), along with 20,427 PD patients and 11,837 
controls from 10 ancestries using genotyping data from the Global Parkinson's 
Genetics Program (GP2).
RESULTS: Utilizing the largest case-control datasets to date, no significant 
enrichment of COMT risk alleles in PD patients was observed across any ancestry 
group after correcting for multiple testing. Among Europeans, no correlations 
with cognitive decline, motor function, motor complications, or time to LID 
onset were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings emphasize the need for larger, diverse cohorts to 
confirm the role of COMT in PD development and progression.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.04.11.25325572
PMCID: PMC12036390
PMID: 40297458

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors report no 
competing interests.


47. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Apr 7:2025.04.06.25325337. doi: 
10.1101/2025.04.06.25325337.

AutoRADP: An Interpretable Deep Learning Framework to Predict Rapid Progression 
for Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias Using Electronic Health Records.

Yang Q(1), Meng W(1), Zhuang P(2), Anton S(3), Wu Y(1), Yin R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Outcomes and Biomedical Informatics, University of 
Florida.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School.
(3)Department of Physiology and Aging, University of Florida.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and AD-related dementias (ADRD) exhibit heterogeneous 
progression rates, with rapid progression (RP) posing significant challenges for 
timely intervention and treatment. The increasingly available patient-centered 
electronic health records (EHRs) have made it possible to develop advanced 
machine learning models for risk prediction of disease progression by leveraging 
comprehensive clinical, demographic, and laboratory data. In this study, we 
propose AutoRADP, an interpretable autoencoder-based framework that predicts 
rapid AD/ADRD progression using both structured and unstructured EHR data from 
UFHealth. AutoRADP incorporates a rule-based natural language processing method 
to extract critical cognitive assessments from clinical notes, combined with 
feature selection techniques to identify essential structured EHR features. To 
address the data imbalance issue, we implement a hybrid sampling strategy that 
combines similarity-based and clustering-based upsampling. Additionally, by 
utilizing SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) values, we provide interpretable 
predictions, shedding light on the key factors driving the rapid progression of 
AD/ADRD. We demonstrate that AutoRADP outperforms existing methods, highlighting 
the potential of our framework to advance precision medicine by enabling 
accurate and interpretable predictions of rapid AD/ADRD progression, and thereby 
supporting improved clinical decision-making and personalized interventions.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.04.06.25325337
PMCID: PMC12036374
PMID: 40297450


48. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Apr 11:2025.04.03.25325187. doi: 
10.1101/2025.04.03.25325187.

Lecanemab and Anticoagulants: Projected Effects on Health and Quality of Life.

Shah SJ, Dinger T, Blacker D, Greenberg SM, Giardina JC, Lykken JM, Kalidindi S, 
Qoshe L, Newhouse JP, Pandya A, Hsu J, Hyle EP.

BACKGROUND: Lecanemab slows cognitive decline among people with early 
Alzheimer's disease (early AD) but appears to increase the risk of intracranial 
hemorrhages (ICHs), including anticoagulant-related ICHs.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the benefits and harms of co-prescribing lecanemab and 
anticoagulants in people with atrial fibrillation (AF) experiencing early AD.
DESIGN: Microsimulation model to compare four treatment strategies. Using inputs 
from the literature, we modeled increased ICH risk with lecanemab (2.02-fold), 
apixaban (1.84-fold), and lecanemab/apixaban interaction (2.67-fold). We 
assigned quality-of-life estimates and increased mortality risk with cognitive 
decline, stroke, and ICH.
DATA SOURCES: Clinical trials, observational cohorts.
TARGET POPULATION: People 65-90 years with AF and early AD.
TIME HORIZON: 18-month.
INTERVENTION: Apixaban ( APIX ), apixaban and lecanemab ( APIX/LEC ), lecanemab 
( LEC ), neither.
OUTCOME MEASURES: ICH, ischemic stroke, cognitive decline, quality-adjusted life 
months (QALMs), and survival, age-stratified.
RESULTS OF BASE CASE: For 100,000 simulated persons aged 65-74 years, APIX , 
APIX/LEC , and LEC would result in a similar clinical benefit (13.2 QALMs). 
Compared to APIX , APIX/LEC would result in more ICH events (1,990 vs. 400), 
all-cause deaths (5,820 vs. 5,140), but slower cognitive decline (mean CDR-SB 
change, 1.11 vs. 1.53). For persons ≥75 years, APIX alone would always be 
preferred.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Results are sensitive to 
lecanemab-anticoagulant interaction on ICH, baseline ICH risk, and lecanemab's 
effect on cognition.
LIMITATIONS: Significant parameter uncertainty; treatment burden and costs were 
not modeled.
CONCLUSIONS: Model-based results support anticoagulants alone as the preferred 
strategy for people ≥75 years with early AD and AF. There was greater equipoise 
across treatment strategies for persons 65-74 years, for whom improved estimates 
of the ICH risk and lecanemab-anticoagulant interaction are critical to 
identifying the preferred strategy.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: National Institute on Aging/National Institutes of 
Health (K76AG074919, P30AG062421, U01AG076478, and R01AG069575).

DOI: 10.1101/2025.04.03.25325187
PMCID: PMC12036412
PMID: 40297409


49. J Cent Nerv Syst Dis. 2025 Apr 23;17:11795735251336302. doi: 
10.1177/11795735251336302. eCollection 2025.

Multiomics from Alzheimer's Brains and Mesenchymal Stem Cell-Derived 
Extracellular Vesicles Identifies Therapeutic Potential of Specific 
Subpopulations to Target Mitochondrial Proteostasis.

Abyadeh M(1)(2), Kaya A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Virginia 
School of Medicine, Charlottesville, VA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by complex molecular 
alterations that complicate its pathogenesis and contribute to the lack of 
effective treatments. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) 
have shown promise in AD models, but results across different EV subpopulations 
remain inconsistent.
OBJECTIVES: This study investigates proteomic and transcriptomic data from 
publicly available postmortem AD brain datasets to identify molecular changes at 
both the gene and protein levels. These findings are then compared with the 
proteomes of various EV subpopulations, differing in size and distribution, to 
determine the most promising subtype for compensating molecular degeneration in 
AD.
DESIGN: We conducted a comprehensive analysis of 788 brain samples, including 
481 AD cases and 307 healthy controls, examining protein and mRNA levels to 
uncover AD-associated molecular changes. These findings were then compared with 
the proteomes of different EV subpopulations to identify potential therapeutic 
candidates.
METHODS: A multi-omics approach was employed, integrating proteomic and 
transcriptomic data analysis, miRNA and transcription factor profiling, 
protein-protein network construction, hub gene identification, and enrichment 
analyses. This approach aimed to explore molecular changes in AD brains and 
pinpoint the most relevant EV subpopulations for therapeutic intervention.
RESULTS: We identified common alterations in the cAMP signaling pathway and 
coagulation cascade at both the protein and mRNA levels. Distinct changes in 
energy metabolism were observed at the protein level but not at the mRNA level. 
A specific EV subtype, characterized by a broader size distribution obtained 
through high-speed centrifugation, was identified as capable of compensating for 
dysregulated mitochondrial proteostasis in AD brains. Network biology analyses 
further highlighted potential regulators of key therapeutic proteins within this 
EV subtype.
CONCLUSION: This study underscores the critical role of proteomic alterations in 
AD and identifies a promising EV subpopulation, enriched with proteins targeting 
mitochondrial proteostasis, as a potential therapeutic strategy for AD.

Plain Language Summary: Alzheimer’s disease is a brain disorder that affects 
memory and thinking, but we still don’t fully understand what causes it at the 
molecular level. In this study, we looked closely at how proteins and genes 
change in Alzheimer’s brains compared to healthy brains. We examined 788 brain 
samples and found that changes in proteins related to energy production and use 
in the brain were key to understanding Alzheimer’s. These changes were not 
always obvious when looking at gene activity alone. To explore potential 
treatments, we studied tiny particles called extracellular vesicles (EVs) 
produced by stem cells. We found a specific type of EV that might help fix 
problems in brain cell energy production by targeting damaged proteins in 
Alzheimer’s brains. These EVs had fewer harmful proteins and more of the 
proteins needed to protect brain cells. This research highlights the important 
role of proteins in Alzheimer’s and suggests that using stem cell-derived EVs 
could be a new way to treat the disease by focusing on restoring the brain’s 
energy balance.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/11795735251336302
PMCID: PMC12035200
PMID: 40297324

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


50. Beilstein J Nanotechnol. 2025 Apr 22;16:561-580. doi: 10.3762/bjnano.16.44. 
eCollection 2025.

Nanomaterials in targeting amyloid-β oligomers: current advances and future 
directions for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis and therapy.

Randhawa S(1)(2), Saini TC(1)(2), Bathla M(1)(2), Bhardwaj R(1)(2), Dhiman R(1), 
Acharya A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Division, C.S.I.R - Institute of Himalayan Bioresource 
Technology, Palampur, Himachal Prasesh, 176061, India.
(2)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, Uttar 
Pradesh, 201002, India.

The amyloid cascade hypothesis posits that amyloid-β oligomers (AβOs) are the 
most neurotoxic species in Alzheimer's disease (AD). These oligomers, 
characterized by their high β-sheet content, have been shown to significantly 
disrupt cell membranes, induce local inflammation, and impair autophagy 
processes, which collectively contribute to neuronal loss. As such, targeting 
AβOs specifically, rather than solely focusing on amyloid-β fibrils (AβFs), may 
offer a more effective therapeutic approach for AD. Recent advances in detection 
and diagnosis have emphasized the importance of accurately identifying AβOs in 
patient samples, enhancing the potential for timely intervention. In recent 
years, nanomaterials (NMs) have emerged as promising agents for addressing AβOs 
regarding their multivalent interactions, which can more effectively detect and 
inhibit AβO formation. This review provides an in-depth analysis of various 
nanochaperones developed to target AβOs, detailing their mechanisms of action 
and therapeutic potential via focusing on two main strategies, namely, 
disruption of AβOs through direct interaction and the inhibition of AβO 
nucleation by binding to intermediates of the oligomerization process. Evidence 
from in vivo studies indicate that NMs hold promise for ameliorating AD 
symptoms. Additionally, the review explores the different interaction mechanisms 
through which nanoparticles exhibit their inhibitory effects on AβOs, providing 
insights into their potential for clinical application. This comprehensive 
overview highlights the current advancements in NM-based therapies for AD and 
outlines future research directions aimed at optimizing these innovative 
treatments.

Copyright © 2025, Randhawa et al.

DOI: 10.3762/bjnano.16.44
PMCID: PMC12035877
PMID: 40297247

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


51. Adv Mater. 2025 Jul;37(27):e2418560. doi: 10.1002/adma.202418560. Epub 2025
Apr  29.

Hybrid Lipoplex Boosts Neuron-Microglia Crosstalk for Treatment of Alzheimer's 
Disease through Aβ-Targeted-Autophagy and ApoE2 Gene Supplementation.

Pu Y(1), Dai XL(2), Wang Y(1), Chen Y(1), Wu C(1)(3), Zhou X(4)(5), Chen M(6), 
Chen YH(2), Shuai X(7), Jin R(1), Nie Y(1).

Author information:
(1)National Engineering Research Center for Biomaterials, College of Biomedical 
Engineering, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610064, P. R. China.
(2)Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS), Wuhan University, Wuhan, Hubei, 430072, 
P. R. China.
(3)Institute of Regulatory Science for Medical Devices, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, Sichuan, 610065, P. R. China.
(4)Department of Thyroid Surgery, The Affiliated Hospital of Southwest Medical 
University, Luzhou, Sichuan, 646000, P. R. China.
(5)Basic Medicine Research Innovation Center for Cardiometabolic Disease, 
Ministry of Education, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, Sichuan, 646000, P. 
R. China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Macau, SAR, 999078, P. R. China.
(7)Nanomedicine Research Center, The Third Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510630, P. R. China.

Efficient clearance of amyloid-β (Aβ) is vital but challenging in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) treatment due to its complicated regulation mechanisms during 
generation and metabolism. It necessitates a multidimensional synergistic 
strategy based on ingenious delivery system design. Herein, guanidine-rich 
lipids (metformin-inspired MLS and arginine-contained RLS) are devised to 
trigger selective chaperone-mediated autophagy for amyloid precursor protein 
degradation in neurons. They are further co-assembled with oleic acid-modified 
cerium dioxide (OA@CeO2) to form RMC assembly for pApoE2 delivery (RMC/pApoE2 
lipoplex). The OA@CeO2 boosts macro-autophagy, alleviates oxidative stress and 
inflammatory microenvironment, and promotes the neurons-microglia crosstalk for 
Aβ elimination. Concurrently, both guanidine-rich lipids and OA@CeO2 benefit 
pApoE2 transfection in neurons, enabling the transport of Aβ into microglia, and 
facilitating enzymatic hydrolysis and cellular digestion of extracellular Aβ. 
The lipoplex-boosted neuron-microglia interactions ultimately eliminate both 
intra- and extra-cellular Aβ aggregates. Consequently, the RMC/pApoE2 lipoplex 
eliminates ≈86.9% of Aβ plaques in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice and restored 
the synaptic function and neuronal connectivity. Moreover, it recovers the 
spatial memory of APP/PS1 mice to nearly the level of WT control. The presented 
hybrid lipoplex showcases an advanced gene delivery system, and offers a 
promising strategy for Aβ clearance in AD treatment.

© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/adma.202418560
PMID: 40296752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2025 Apr 28. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273366438250408120558. Online ahead of print.

Cell-Free DNA, a Noninvasive Biomarker for Prediction and Detection of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, New Insights, and Perspectives.

Barabadi T(1), Mirjalili ES(2), Mohamadi-Zarch SM(3), Rahimi H(2), Keshmirshekan 
F(2), Bagheri SM(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Health Research Institute, Babol 
University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Shahid Sadoughi University of 
Medical Sciences, Prof. Hesabi Bulvd, Shohadaye Gomnam Bulvd, 8915173149, Yard, 
Iran.
(4)Neuroendocrine Research Center, Faculty of Medicine, Shahid Sadoughi 
University of Medical Sciences, Prof. Hesabi Bulvd, Shohadaye Gomnam Bulvd, 
8915173149, Yard, Iran.

Neurodegenerative diseases pose serious threats to public health worldwide. 
Biomarkers for neurodegenerative disorders are essential to enhance the 
diagnostic process in clinical settings and to aid in the creation and 
assessment of effective disease-modifying treatments. In recent times, 
affordable and readily available blood-based biomarkers identifying the same 
neurodegenerative disease pathologies have been created, potentially 
transforming the diagnostic approach for these disorders worldwide. Emerging 
relevant biomarkers for α-synuclein pathology in Parkinson's disease include 
blood-based indicators of overall neurodegeneration and glial activation. 
Cell-free DNA (cfDNA), an encouraging non-invasive biomarker commonly utilized 
in oncology and pregnancy, has demonstrated significant potential in clinical 
uses for diagnosing neurodegenerative disorders. In this section, we explore the 
latest cfDNA studies related to neurodegenerative disorders. Moreover, we 
present a perspective on the possible role of cfDNA as a diagnostic, 
therapeutic, and prognostic indicator for neurodegenerative disorders. This 
review provides a summary of the most recent progress in biomarkers for 
neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's disease, multiple 
sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and traumatic brain injury.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273366438250408120558
PMID: 40296625


53. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025;22(3):219-231. doi: 
10.2174/0115672050361366250328040542.

NRN1 may Modulate Tau Phosphorylation and Neuronal Apoptosis in AD via the 
PIGU-CASP3 Axis.

Cheng W(1), Zhang J(1)(2), Zhu H(3), Wang Z(1), Li M(4), Wang J(1), Fu H(1), 
Zhang Y(1), Gao Y(1), Chen C(1), Yuan C(1), Zhu J(1), Sun J(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Xinjiang Endemic and Ethnic Diseases and Department of 
Biochemistry, Shihezi University School of Medicine, Shihezi, 832003, China.
(2)Department of Human Anatomy and Histology and Embryology, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Peking University Health Science Center, Beijing, 100191, 
China.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Shihezi 
University, Shihezi, 832008, China.
(4)Shihezi University Nursing School, Shihezi, 832003, China.
(5)Center for Stem Cell Biology and Tissue Engineering, Key Laboratory for Stem 
Cells and Tissue Engineering Ministry of Education, Department of 
Histoembryology and Cell Biology, Zhongshan School of Medicine, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, 510080, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by hyperphosphorylation of tau protein to form neurofibrillary 
tangles (NFTs) and amyloid β (Aβ) deposition to form senile plaques, and its 
specific regulatory mechanism remains incompletely understood. Neurotrophic 
factors (NTFs) play important roles in neuronal growth, differentiation, and 
survival, and are considered to have potential therapeutic effects in AD.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the effects of NTFs on tau protein 
phosphorylation in AD and its underlying mechanisms.
METHODS: A correlation analysis was conducted between neurotrophic factors and 
tau protein phosphorylation genes using bioinformatics analysis. The 
relationship between the candidate neurotrophic factor NRN1 and tau protein 
phosphorylation was validated in vivo. The effects of NRN1 on tau protein 
phosphorylation, neural process-related proteins, and apoptosis were explored in 
vitro. Subsequently, GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses and PPI network 
were utilized to identify potential functions and pathways, as well as pinpoint 
core regulatory factors. Finally, the mechanism by which NRN1 affects tau 
protein phosphorylation was explored through Western blot analysis.
RESULTS: Bioinformatics analysis revealed a significant negative correlation 
between NRN1 and MAPT, a gene linked to tau protein phosphorylation. Western 
blot analysis indicated a decrease in NRN1 expression and an increase in p-tau 
levels in the hippocampus of AD mice. NRN1 significantly reduced the expression 
of p-tau in AD cell models and enhanced the expression of MAP2, a protein 
related to neural processes. Further, apoptosis analysis demonstrated that NRN1 
significantly decreased the level of cleaved caspase-3 and elevated the 
Bcl-2/Bax ratio. Bioinformatics analysis and PPI network construction suggested 
PIGU and CASP3 to play pivotal roles in NRN1 regulation of tau protein 
phosphorylation.
CONCLUSION: NRN1 may mitigate tau protein phosphorylation and neuronal apoptosis 
by modulating the PIGU-CASP3 pathway in AD. This finding offers novel insights 
into NRN1 as a potential target for the treatment of AD.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050361366250328040542
PMID: 40296620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. CPT Pharmacometrics Syst Pharmacol. 2025 Jul;14(7):1168-1178. doi: 
10.1002/psp4.70035. Epub 2025 Apr 28.

Interactions of Therapeutic Antibodies With Presynaptically-Released Misfolded 
Proteins in Neurodegenerative Diseases. A Spatial Monte-Carlo Simulation Study.

Goff J(1), Khalifa M(1), Short SM(2), van der Graaf PH(3), Geerts H(2).

Author information:
(1)Certara Predictive Technologies, Sheffield, UK.
(2)Certara Predictive Technologies, Radnor, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Certara Predictive Technologies, Canterbury, UK.

The spatial progression hypothesis of misfolded tau and alpha-synuclein proteins 
in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Disease proposes the release of proteins from a 
presynaptic membrane followed by diffusion over the synaptic cleft and uptake by 
the postsynaptic membrane in the afferent neuron. A number of antibodies aiming 
to reduce this neuronal uptake by capturing these proteins in the extracellular 
space are currently in clinical development, so far without much success. For 
modeling the interaction between antibodies and misfolded proteins in the 
extremely small synaptic volume with only a few proteins navigating a crowded 
environment of transsynaptic proteins, traditional assumptions of ordinary 
differential equations (ODEs) break down. Here we use spatial Monte Carlo 
calculations of individual molecule trajectories in a realistic geometrical 
environment using the open-source software Mcell (mcell.org). For several 
different densities of transsynaptic proteins, we show that due to geometric 
constraints, less than 0.5% of the antibody in the brain interstitial fluid 
(ISF) can enter the crowded synaptic cleft. As a consequence, uptake of the 
seed-competent proteins is reduced by less than 10%, even at the highest 
concentration and for selective antibodies. Only the seed-competent protein that 
escapes the synaptic cleft (between 15% and 30%) is captured by the antibody. 
Given the extremely low penetrance of the antibodies, it is close to impossible 
for antibodies to interfere with the uptake mechanism that takes place in the 
synaptic cleft. These simulations using a detailed and realistic biological 
environment provide a possible explanation for the clinical trial failures of 
anti-tau and anti-αsynuclein antibodies.

© 2025 The Author(s). CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology 
and Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1002/psp4.70035
PMCID: PMC12256572
PMID: 40296445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


55. J Neuroinflammation. 2025 Apr 28;22(1):122. doi: 10.1186/s12974-025-03440-4.

Immunity in neuromodulation: probing neural and immune pathways in brain 
disorders.

Hours C(1)(2), Vayssière P(3), Gressens P(4), Laforge M(4).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris Cité, NeuroDiderot, Inserm, Paris, France. 
camille.hours@inserm.fr.
(2)Service de Neurochirurgie, Hôpital Fondation Adolphe de Rothschild, Paris, 
France. camille.hours@inserm.fr.
(3)Service de Neurochirurgie, Hôpital Fondation Adolphe de Rothschild, Paris, 
France.
(4)Université Paris Cité, NeuroDiderot, Inserm, Paris, France.

Immunity finely regulates brain function. It is directly involved in the 
pathological processes of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and 
Alzheimer's disease, post-stroke conditions, multiple sclerosis, traumatic brain 
injury, and psychiatric disorders (mood disorders, major depressive disorder 
(MDD), anxiety disorders, psychosis disorders and schizophrenia, and 
neurodevelopmental disorders (NDD)). Neuromodulation is currently a leading 
therapeutic strategy for the treatment of these disorders, but little is yet 
known about its immune impact on neuronal function and its precise beneficial or 
harmful consequences. We review relevant clinical and preclinical studies and 
identify several specific immune modifications. These data not only provide 
insights into how neuromodulation acts to optimize immune-brain interactions, 
but also pave the way for a better understanding of these interactions in 
pathological processes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-025-03440-4
PMCID: PMC12038965
PMID: 40296049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


56. J Neurol. 2025 Apr 28;272(5):364. doi: 10.1007/s00415-025-13101-4.

Advances in research on mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases.

Zhang Y(1), Li XW(1), Zhang Y(1), Li X(2).

Author information:
(1)National Engineering Laboratory for Resource Development of Endangered Crude 
Drugs in Northwest China, Key Laboratory of Medicinal Resources and Natural 
Pharmaceutical Chemistry (Shaanxi Normal University), The Ministry of Education, 
College of Life Sciences, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, 710119, Shaanxi, 
China.
(2)National Engineering Laboratory for Resource Development of Endangered Crude 
Drugs in Northwest China, Key Laboratory of Medicinal Resources and Natural 
Pharmaceutical Chemistry (Shaanxi Normal University), The Ministry of Education, 
College of Life Sciences, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, 710119, Shaanxi, 
China. xingli_xian@126.com.

Given the high energy demand of the nervous system, mitochondrial dysfunction is 
a key factor in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Thus, a 
comprehensive understanding of its mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets 
is essential. This review discusses the roles of mitochondrial oxidative stress, 
mitochondrial dynamics alterations, and mtDNA damage in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), and multiple 
sclerosis (MS). In addition, it summarizes the contributions of novel 
technological approaches in detecting mitochondrial dysfunction, which assist in 
disease diagnosis. We also emphasize emerging therapeutic strategies and drugs 
aimed at enhancing mitochondrial quality control and reducing oxidative stress, 
thereby laying the groundwork for innovative therapeutic approaches in 
neurodegenerative disease treatment.

© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-025-13101-4
PMID: 40295342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: None.


57. Br J Ophthalmol. 2025 Aug 20;109(9):990-996. doi: 10.1136/bjo-2025-327134.

Impact of mental health comorbidities on the effect of cataract surgery on 
dementia risk: a real-world retrospective cohort study.

Kao SK(#)(1)(2), Yueh MP(#)(3)(4), Yeh HJ(5)(6), Cheng HC(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Medicine, Shin Kong Wu Ho-Su Memorial Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medical Education, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, School of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Institute of Public Health, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(6)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Taipei Hospital, Ministry 
of Health and Welfare, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan 
jellyfishcheng@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Cataract surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of developing 
dementia in the future; however, its impact on different dementia subtypes, 
including vascular dementia, remains unknown. Moreover, its dementia-protecting 
effect among cataract patients with common mental disorder (CMD) remains 
unclear.
METHODS: Patients aged 65 or older diagnosed with cataract between 2012 and 2021 
were included and grouped based on whether they underwent cataract surgery 
within 1 year of diagnosis. Propensity-score matching was used to balance 
baseline characteristics, and Cox proportional hazards models were applied to 
assess dementia incidence within 5 years post-cataract between groups. Subgroup 
analyses were performed based on CMD status.
RESULTS: After propensity-score matching, 75 757 patients were included in both 
surgery and control groups. Cataract surgery significantly reduced dementia risk 
(HR=0.677, 95% CI =0.638 to 0.719, p<0.001), particularly for Alzheimer's 
disease (HR=0.643, 95% CI=0.576 to 0.716, p<0.001), with no significant effect 
on vascular dementia (HR=0.968, 95% CI=0.851 to 1.101, p=0.621). Subgroup 
analyses showed a significant reduction in dementia risk for patients without 
CMD (HR=0.666, 95% CI=0.624 to 0.710, p<0.001), but no protective effect in 
those with CMD, regardless of CMD status.
CONCLUSION: Cataract surgery is linked to a lower risk of dementia, especially 
Alzheimer's disease, in patients with cataract. However, this protective effect 
is diminished in those with CMD.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo-2025-327134
PMID: 40295035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


58. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2025 Apr 20;45(4):785-798. doi: 
10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2025.04.14.

[n-butanol fraction of ethanol extract of Periploca forrestii Schltr.: its 
active components, targets and pathways for treating Alcheimer's disease in 
rats].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Ran N(1), Liu J(1)(2)(3), Xu J(1)(2)(3), Zhang Y(1)(2)(3), Guo J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Guizhou University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Guiyang 550025, China.
(2)National Engineering and Technology Research Center of Miao Medicine, Guiyang 
550025, China.
(3)Guizhou Engineering Research Center of Chinese Medicine Concoction and 
Preparation, Guiyang 550025, China.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the active components and possible mechanisms of 
n-butanol fraction of Periploca forrestii Schltr. ethanol extract for treating 
Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: The active components of n-butanol fraction of Periploca forrestii 
Schltr. ethanol extract were analyzed using UPLC-QE-MS technique. In a SD rat 
model of AD induced by treatment with AlCl3 and D-gal, the therapeutic effects 
of low, moderate and high doses of the n-butanol fraction, saline, and donepezil 
hydrochloride were evaluated using ELISA, HE and Nissl staining, 
immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. The therapeutic mechanisms of the 
n-butanol fraction were explored using network pharmacology and molecular 
docking.
RESULTS: Seventeen active components were identified from the n-butanol fraction 
of Periploca forrestii Schltr. ethanol extract, including phenylpropanoids, 
flavonoids, anthraquinones, triterpenoids, steroids, and volatile oils. In the 
rat models of AD, treatment with the n-butanol fraction significantly lowed AChE 
content in the hippocampus, increased the contents of ACh, SOD, CAT, and GSH-Px, 
enhanced the expressions of neuronal apoptotic factors Bcl-2, PI3K, Akt, p-PI3K, 
and p-Akt, and reduced the expressions of Bax and caspase-3 proteins. The 
treatment also dose-dependently up-regulated hippocampal expressions of Nrf-2, 
HO-1 and BDNF and down-regulated Keap-1, Aβ and Tau expressions. Bioinformatics 
analysis identified 14 key intersected targets (including TNF, AKT1 and ESR1) 
between the n-butanol fraction and AD.
CONCLUSIONS: The therapeutic effect of n-butanol fraction of Periploca forrestii 
Schltr. ethanol extract in AD mice is mediated by its multiple active components 
that regulate multiple targets and pathways.

Publisher: 目的: 探讨黑骨藤正丁醇萃取部位对阿尔茨海默病（AD）的药效学研究及潜在作用机制预测。方法: 
采用超高效液相-四级杆-静电场轨道阱高分辨质谱（UPLC-QE-MS）技术对黑骨藤正丁醇部位的化学成分进行分析鉴定，建立三氯化铝（AlCl3）和D-半乳糖（D-gal）联合诱导50只SPF级雄性AD大鼠模型，使用酶联免疫吸附试验（ELISA）、苏木精-伊红染色（HE）和尼氏染色（Nissl）、免疫组化染色（ICH）、Western 
blotting等实验为基础，通过网络药理学及分子对接技术预测抗AD潜在作用机制。结果: 
黑骨藤正丁醇萃取部位鉴定出17个化学成分，主要包括苯丙素类、黄酮类、蒽醌类、三萜类、甾体类以及挥发油类。药效学实验结果显示经过黑骨藤正丁醇萃取部位组处理后，大鼠海马中乙酰胆碱酯酶（AChE）含量降低（P<0.05），而乙酰胆碱（ACh）、超氧化物歧化酶（SOD）、过氧化氢酶（CAT）和谷胱甘肽过氧化物酶（GSH-Px）的含量增加（P<0.05），在Western 
blotting实验中神经细胞凋亡因子B淋巴细胞瘤-2（Bcl-2）、磷脂酰肌醇-3激酶（PI3K）、蛋白激酶B（Akt）、磷酸化磷脂酰肌醇-3激酶（p-PI3K）和磷酸化蛋白激酶B（p-Akt）表达上升（P<0.05），而Bax蛋白、半胱氨酸天冬氨酸蛋白酶-3（Caspase-3）表达下降（P<0.01），氧化应激因子核因子红细胞系2相关因子2（Nrf-2）和血红素氧合酶1（HO-1）蛋白表达水平上调（P<0.01），氧化应激反应转录因子（Keap-1）蛋白表达水平下调（P<0.01），脑源性神经营养因子BDNF表达水平均升高（P<0.01），以及β-淀粉样蛋白Aβ、Tau蛋白表达水平均下调（P<0.01），且表现出一定的剂量依赖性。黑骨藤正丁醇萃取部位活性成分与AD共获得TNF、AKT1和ESR1等14个关键靶点。结论: 
初步阐明了黑骨藤正丁醇萃取成分的药效物质基础，并证实了其具有较好的抗AD效果。预测黑骨藤正丁醇萃取部位可通过多组分、多靶点、多途径和多通路发挥抗AD作用。.

DOI: 10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2025.04.14
PMCID: PMC12037288
PMID: 40294929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Exp Neurol. 2025 Aug;390:115271. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115271. Epub
2025  Apr 26.

Neuroprotective roles of SGLT2 and DPP4 inhibitors: Modulating ketone metabolism 
and suppressing NLRP3 inflammasome in T2D induced Alzheimer's disease.

Sim AY(1), Kim JY(2), Lee YH(3), Lee JE(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Catholic Kwandong University College of Medicine, 
Gangneung, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea; Department of Systems Biology, Glycosylation Network 
Research Center, Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Interdisciplinary 
Program of Integrated OMICS for Biomedical Science, Yonsei University, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Anatomy, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic 
of Korea; Graduate School of Medical Science, Brain Korea 21 Project, Yonsei 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Brain Research 
Institute, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: jelee@yuhs.ac.

Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor (SGLT2-i) and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 
inhibitor (DPP4-i) are known to ameliorate Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like 
pathology and cognitive decline through distinct mechanisms. In this study, we 
investigated how these antidiabetic drugs elevate ketone levels and subsequently 
reduce amyloid-β (Aβ) and tau pathology via the NLR family pyrin domain 
containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome pathway in microglia, using a type 2 diabetes 
(T2D)-AD mouse model. Male C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat diet and injected 
with low doses of streptozotocin to establish a T2D-AD model. The mice were then 
treated with either SGLT2-i or DPP4-i. Our results revealed that both the 
inhibitors markedly enhanced brain ketone metabolism by upregulating key 
metabolic enzymes and transporters. They also reduced neuroinflammation by 
suppressing the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-1β, and 
increasing the expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-4. A critical 
mechanism for this anti-inflammatory effect involved the inhibition of the 
expression of the NLRP3 inflammasome, a key driver of neuroinflammation. 
Notably, SGLT2-i appeared to inhibit NLRP3 inflammasome expression by disrupting 
the pTau-CX3C1 interaction, whereas DPP4-i exerted its effects through the 
Aβ-TLR4-NF-κB pathway. Moreover, our results showed that both the inhibitors 
promoted a shift in microglial activation from the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype 
to the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, as indicated by the changes in CD206 and 
CD86 expression. These findings suggest that SGLT2-i and DPP4-i provide 
neuroprotective benefits through multiple mechanisms, including enhanced ketone 
metabolism, reduced neuroinflammation, and modulation of microglial activity in 
T2D-AD mouse model. This research offers a scientific basis for considering 
these inhibitors as potential therapeutic agents for neurodegenerative diseases, 
particularly in cognitive impairment patients with metabolic dysfunction.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115271
PMID: 40294740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there are no competing interests.


60. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 May;310(Pt 4):143542. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143542. Epub 2025 Apr 26.

Intranasal delivery of pApoE2 via penetratin-mannose multi-functionalized 
chitosan polymeric micelles to the brain: Reduced total tau and phosphorylated 
tau burden in transgenic Alzheimer's mouse model.

Gothwal A(1), Muolokwu CE(1), Chaulagain B(1), Mahanta AK(1), Singh J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, College of Health 
and Human Sciences, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND 58108-6050, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, College of Health 
and Human Sciences, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND 58108-6050, USA. 
Electronic address: jagdish.singh@ndsu.edu.

The phosphorylated tau accumulation is a classical pathological hallmark of 
future cognitive decline and a cause of neuronal death in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). In this study, we developed multi-functionalized chitosan (CS) based 
polymeric micelles to effectively deliver pApoE2 via intranasal administration 
to the brain. The CS was modified with caproic acid (CA), cell-penetrating 
peptide penetratin (PEN), and GLUT-1 transporter ligand mannose (MAN) for 
selective and enhanced delivery to the brain. The multi-functionalized 
Cap-g-CS-PEN-MAN polymeric micelles were ≤200 nm in size, cationic in charge, 
and uniformly distributed (PDI ≤ 0.3). The multi-functionalized polymeric 
micelles did not exhibit toxicity against bEnd.3 cells and erythrocytes up to 
polymer concentrations of 500 μg/mL. The Cap-g-CS-PEN-MAN /pDNA polyplex was 
stable against a DNase rich environment. The Cap-g-CS-PEN-MAN/pAPoE2 polyplex 
demonstrated elevated expression of ApoE in primary astrocytes and neurons, 
9.47 ± 2.13 and 5.67 ± 2.69 ng/mg of protein, respectively. The therapeutic 
efficacy of the Cap-g-CS-PEN-MAN/pApoE2 polyplex was analyzed against the PS19 
tauopathy mice model. Total tau burden was significantly (p ≤ 0.05) reduced by 
4.09 ± 1.4 ng/mg of protein in Cap-g-CS-PEN-MAN/pApoE2 polyplex administered 
mice over the other groups. Phosphorylated tau pT181 level was also 
significantly (p ≤ 0.05) reduced in Cap-g-CS-PEN-MAN/pApoE2 polyplex 
administered mice over saline, pApoE2 and Cap-g-CS/pApoE2 treated groups.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143542
PMID: 40294672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.61. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 May;310(Pt 4):143479. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143479. Epub 2025 Apr 26.

Unveiling the therapeutic role of Vibrio alginolyticus GH5 exopolysaccharide in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Abdelrazik M(1), El Awady ME(2), Abdel-Razik G(1), Rashad A(1), Ali M(3), 
Eltaher A(4), Hamed AA(5).

Author information:
(1)Botany and Microbiology Department, Faculty of Science, Suez Canal 
University, Ismailia 41522, Egypt.
(2)Microbial Biotechnology Department, National Research Centre, El-Buhouth St. 
33, Dokki, Cairo 12622, Egypt. Electronic address: mohamed_elawady82@yahoo.com.
(3)Biochemistry department, Faculty of Science, Zagazig University, 44519, 
Egypt.
(4)Tumor Biology laboratory, Basic research department, Children cancer 
hospital, 57357, El Sayeda Zeinab, Cairo 4260102, Egypt.
(5)Microbial Chemistry Department, National Research Centre, El-Buhouth St. 33, 
Dokki, Cairo 12622, Egypt.

Vibrio alginolyticus strain GH5 (OR865148.1) was isolated from the Red Sea, 
Hurghada, Egypt, and classified according to cultural attributes, biochemical 
properties, and the analysis of genetic relationships using 16S rRNA sequences. 
A substantial proportion of exopolysaccharides (EPS) in GH5-EPS contained a 
sulfate level of 19.8 %, uronic acid of 6.7 %, and N-acetylglucosamine of 
16.07 %. The composition of monosaccharides in these fractions consists of 
arabinose, glucose, and galacturonic acid in a proportion of 2:1:2, 
respectively. GH5-EPS surface appeared as a needle-like shape by SEM. GH5-EPS 
enhancement of the RAW264.7 macrophage line ATTC number J774 cell proliferation 
via MTT assay for cell viability. GH5-EPS had a high immunomodulatory effect on 
releasing TNF-alfa and IL-10. Followed by its effect against cyclooxygenase 
(COX-2) and lipoxygenase (LOX). Antioxidant activity was evaluated for GPx4, 
GSS, and MDA with highly significant results for DPPH, ABTS, and iron chelating. 
AChE was inhibited by a mean of (30.25 ± 1.76 and 52.1 ± 2.77 μg/mL). GH5-EPS 
illustrated a good treatment effect for AD in a rat animal model, supporting 
biochemical studies, histopathology for some brain parts, and toxicity. 
Bioinformatic investigation for GH5 gene and translated protein structure and 
function provide insights for future drug-targeting of the EPS production 
pathway.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.143479
PMID: 40294669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


62. Lancet Healthy Longev. 2025 Apr;6(4):100706. doi:
10.1016/j.lanhl.2025.100706.  Epub 2025 Apr 25.

Combined mind-body physical exercise, cognitive training, and nurse-led risk 
factor modification to enhance cognition among older adults with mild cognitive 
impairment in primary care: a three-arm randomised controlled trial.

Xu Z(1), Zhang D(2), Yip BH(1), Lee EK(1), Poon PK(1), Peters R(3), Yang Z(1), 
Lee AT(4), Leung MK(5), Wong EL(1), Mok VC(6), Lam LC(4), Wong SY(7).

Author information:
(1)Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, The Chinese University 
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China.
(2)Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, The Chinese University 
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China; School of Nursing, 
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, 
China.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia; 
The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region, China.
(5)Department of Family Medicine & Primary Health Care, New Territories East 
Cluster, Hospital Authority, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China.
(6)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Faculty of 
Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region, China.
(7)Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, The Chinese University 
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China. Electronic 
address: yeungshanwong@cuhk.edu.hk.

BACKGROUND: Mild cognitive impairment is a cognitive state that is worse than 
that of healthy older adults but less severe than dementia. The effectiveness of 
a nurse-led risk factor modification (RFM) intervention for older adults with 
mild cognitive impairment is unclear. The study aimed to compare the effects of: 
(1) a multi-component intervention: combined cognitive training, mind-body 
physical exercise, and nurse-led RFM (CPR), (2) nurse-led RFM alone, and (3) 
health advice alone on cognitive function among older adults with mild cognitive 
impairment in primary care.
METHODS: We did a 15-month, three-arm, open-label, blinded-endpoint, randomised 
controlled trial in older adults with mild cognitive impairment at a 
university-affiliated research and training clinic of the Lek Yuen Health Centre 
in Hong Kong. Inclusion criteria were age 60-80 years, a Hong Kong Montreal 
Cognitive Assessment score of 19-25 (defined as mild cognitive impairment), and 
a physically stable condition. Participants were randomly assigned (1:1:1) via 
computer-generated allocation sequencing to receive either CPR, RFM, or health 
advice. Assessors and data analysts were masked to group allocation. 
Participants randomly assigned to the CPR and RFM groups met the nurse quarterly 
and the primary care physician every 6 months. The CPR group also received Tai 
Chi and cognitive training three times a week for 3 months. The health advice 
group received booklets with general health advice. Assessments were conducted 
at baseline, 6 months, 12 months, and 15 months. The primary outcome was the 
Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive section (ADAS-Cog) Z score at 
15 months. The analysis followed the modified intention-to-treat principle that 
included participants completing at least one follow-up assessment. A linear 
mixed model was used for the analysis, with adjustments for multiple comparisons 
made using Bonferroni's correction. The trial was preregistered at the Chinese 
Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR 1900026857), and is completed.
FINDINGS: Between Oct 28, 2019, and Dec 1, 2022, 3122 registrations were 
received, 1104 were excluded (declined to participate, duplicate registrations, 
or unable to be contacted), and 2018 were assessed for eligibility. A further 
1562 participants were excluded, and 456 participants were randomly assigned to 
an intervention. 152 participants were assigned to the CPR group, 152 to the RFM 
group, and 152 to the health advice group. 423 participants who completed at 
least one follow-up assessment were included in the analysis (139 in the CPR 
group, 144 in the RFM group, and 140 in the health advice group). 118 (28%) 
participants were male and 305 (72%) were female. The mean age of participants 
was 70·1 years (SD 4·9). No significant difference between the three groups in 
ADAS-Cog was found at the primary endpoint at 15 months (CPR vs health advice, 
β= -0·04 [95% CI -0·34 to 0·26]; RFM vs health advice, β= -0·14 [-0·44 to 0·15]; 
CPR vs RFM, β=0·10 [-0·19 to 0·40]) nor at the 6-month and 12-month follow-ups.
INTERPRETATION: New interventions for patients with mild cognitive impairment on 
top of health advice should be recommended only when they have been refined and 
evaluated to be effective by future trials.
FUNDING: Health and Medical Research Fund.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lanhl.2025.100706
PMID: 40294622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.


63. Neurology. 2025 May 27;104(10):e213603. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213603.
Epub  2025 Apr 28.

Survival Differences Between Individuals With Typical and Atypical Phenotypes of 
Alzheimer Disease.

Bader I(1)(2), Groot C(1)(2), Van Der Flier WM(1)(2)(3), Pijnenburg YAL(1)(2), 
Ossenkoppele R(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, the Netherlands.
(2)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC Location VUmc, the Netherlands.
(3)Epidemiology and Data Science, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC 
Location VUmc, the Netherlands; and.
(4)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Survival estimates for individuals with Alzheimer 
disease (AD) are informative to understand the disease trajectory, but precise 
estimates for atypical AD variants are scarce. Atypical AD variants are 
characterized by nonamnestic phenotypes, an early onset, and lower prevalence of 
APOEε4 carriership, which affect the AD trajectory. We aimed to provide survival 
estimates for posterior cortical atrophy (PCA), logopenic variant primary 
progressive aphasia (lvPPA), and behavioral AD (bvAD) and to evaluate the effect 
of these atypical AD diagnoses beyond known mortality determinants.
METHODS: From the Amsterdam Dementia Cohort, we retrospectively selected 
patients with biomarker-confirmed sporadic AD presenting at the memory clinic in 
the mild cognitive impairment or dementia stage. Patients were classified into 
atypical AD phenotypes (PCA, lvPPA, bvAD; multidisciplinary consensus and 
retrospective case finding) and a typical AD reference group (excluding 
unclassifiable atypical presentations or unconfirmed future AD dementia). 
Survival estimates from the first visit to death/censoring (Central Public 
Administration) were determined (Kaplan-Meier analysis) and compared (log-rank 
tests) across diagnostic groups. To assess associations of atypical AD with 
mortality, Cox proportional hazard models were constructed including age, sex, 
education, MMSE score, and APOEε4 carriership (model 1), followed by adding the 
atypical AD group (model 2) or atypical AD variants (model 3). A likelihood 
ratio test was performed to compare the fit of model 1 and model 2.
RESULTS: A total of 2,081 patients (aged 65 ± 8 years, 52% female) were 
classified as typical AD (n = 1,801) or atypical AD (n = 280; PCA [n = 112], 
lvPPA [n = 86], and bvAD [n = 82]). The estimated median survival time for 
atypical AD of 6.3 years (95% CI [5.8-6.9]) was shorter than for typical AD (7.2 
[7.0-7.5], p = 0.02). Median survival durations across the atypical AD variants 
were consistently, albeit nonsignificantly, shorter (PCA: 6.3 [5.5-7.3], p = 
0.055; lvPPA: 6.6 [5.7-7.7], p = 0.110; bvAD: 6.3 [5.0-9.1], p = 0.121, 48% 
deceased). Including atypical AD improved the model fit (model 2; χ2 = 8.88, p = 
0.003) and was associated with 31% increased mortality risk compared with 
typical AD (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.31 [1.10-1.56], p = 0.002). In model 3, 
contributions of the variants were as follows: HRPCA = 1.35 (1.05-1.73), p = 
0.019; HRlvPPA = 1.27 (0.94-1.69), p = 0.114; HRbvAD = 1.31 (0.94-1.83), p = 
0.105.
DISCUSSION: Survival in atypical AD (PCA, lvPPA, bvAD) was shorter compared with 
typical AD. These atypical variants are associated with increased mortality 
beyond age, sex, education, APOEε4 carriership, and disease severity. Future 
studies are required to address generalizability of these findings and to 
identify factors that explain the observed survival differences.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213603
PMCID: PMC12042099
PMID: 40294367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I. Bader reports no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript. C. Groot is supported by a Dementia Fellowship grant from ZonMW 
(10510022110010). Research programs of W.M. Van Der Flier have been funded by 
ZonMW, NWO, EU-JPND, EU-IHI, Alzheimer Nederland, Hersenstichting CardioVascular 
Onderzoek Nederland, Health ∼ Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health, 
Stichting Dioraphte, Gieskes-Strijbis Fonds, Stichting Equilibrio, Edwin Bouw 
Fonds, Pasman Stichting, Stichting Alzheimer & Neuropsychiatrie Foundation, 
Philips, Biogen MA Inc, Novartis-NL, Life-MI, AVID, Roche BV, Fujifilm, Eisai, 
Combinostics. W.M. Van Der Flier holds the Pasman chair. W.M. Van Der Flier is 
recipient of ABOARD, which is a public-private partnership receiving funding 
from ZonMW (#73305095007) and Health ∼ Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health 
(PPP-allowance; #LSHM20106). W.M. Van Der Flier is project leader of 
TAP-dementia, funded by ZonMw (#10510032120003) and supported by Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Amprion and Gieskes-Strijbis Fonds. W.M. Van Der Flier has 
been an invited speaker at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD Neurology 
(Medscape), NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council. W.M. Van 
Der Flier is a consultant to Oxford Health Policy Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA 
Inc, and Eisai. W.M. Van Der Flier participated in advisory boards of Biogen MA 
Inc, Roche, and Eli Lilly. W.M. Van Der Flier is a member of the steering 
committee of EVOKE/EVOKE+ (NovoNordisk). All funding is paid to her institution. 
W.M. Van Der Flier is a member of the steering committee of Project Alzheimer's 
Value Europe and Think Brain Health. W.M. Van Der Flier was associate editor of 
Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 2020/2021. W.M. Van Der Flier is associate 
editor at Brain. Y.A.L. Pijnenburg has received funding from the Dutch Brain 
Foundation, ZonMW, NWO and the Mooiste Contact Fonds (both paid to her 
institution). Projects of R. Ossenkoppele received support of the European 
Research Council, ZonMw, NWO, National Institute of Health, Alzheimer 
Association, Alzheimer Nederland, Stichting Dioraphte, Cure Alzheimer's fund, 
Health Holland, European Research Area (in Personalised Medicine), 
Alzheimerfonden, Hjarnfonden, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen Research & 
Development, Roche, Quanterix and Optina Diagnostics. R. Ossenkoppele was 
speaker at symposia organized by GE Healthcare. R. Ossenkoppele is an advisory 
board/steering committee member for Asceneuron, Biogen and Bristol Myers Squibb. 
All the aforementioned has been paid to the institutions. R. Ossenkoppele is 
part of the editorial board of Alzheimer's Research & Therapy and the European 
Journal of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging. Go to Neurology.org/N for 
full disclosures.


64. Dementia (London). 2025 Jul;24(5):955-976. doi: 10.1177/14713012251339364.
Epub  2025 Apr 28.

Efficacy and impact of spousal support groups in enhancing the well-being of 
caring in early onset dementia: Lessons learned from the ACE Alzheimer center 
Barcelona.

Cañabate P(1)(2), de Rojas I(1)(2), Marina G(1), Moreno M(1), Preckler S(1), 
Seguer S(1), Martínez G(3), Morera A(1), Rosende-Roca M(1), Appiani FE(1), 
Tartari JP(1), Vargas L(1), Ricciardi M(1), Ariton Smera DM(1), Ortega G(1)(2), 
Sanabria A(1), Espinosa A(1)(2), Pérez-Cordón A(1), Muñoz N(1), Lleonart N(1), 
Valero S(1)(2), Alegret M(1)(2), Pytel V(1), Riera A(1), Ruiz A(1)(2), 
Gurrutxaga MJ(1), Tárraga L(1)(2), Marquié M(1)(2), Cantero-Fortiz Y(1)(2), 
Boada M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Networking Research Center on Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Antofagasta, Antofagasta, 
Chile.

Background: The group intervention aimed at caregivers of persons with dementia 
is regarded as an effective tool for support and education. However, these 
groups do not specifically cater to caregivers of individuals with spouses 
affected by young-onset dementia. Objective: To assess the effectiveness of a 
support and training group specifically targeted towards spouses of individuals 
with young onset dementia and its impact on reducing caregiver burden. 
Participants and Methods: Participants were recruited from a single memory 
clinic in Catalonia, Spain. The Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI) was utilized to 
evaluate caregiver burden both before and after participation in the support 
groups and a combined quantitative and qualitative analysis approach was 
employed. Results: A total of 77 caregivers were included and assessed, 
comprising 45.5% females with a mean age of 55 years and 54.5% males with a mean 
age of 63 years. While the overall caregiver burden, as measured by the ZBI, did 
not exhibit a significant reduction following participation in the group 
sessions, a notable decrease in ZBI scores was observed among caregivers with 
the highest burden at baseline. Three key stages were identified throughout the 
sessions: (1) discussions pertaining to the type of dementia and its associated 
changes; (2) the provision of care and attention to spouses along with the 
exchange of information among participants; and (3) identification of 
caregivers' needs. Conclusions: The subgroup of caregivers of persons with young 
onset dementia who exhibited the highest burden at baseline derived the greatest 
benefit from the support groups. Various qualitative indicators.

DOI: 10.1177/14713012251339364
PMID: 40294330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


65. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 2025 Nov;38(6):419-429. doi: 
10.1177/08919887251338270. Epub 2025 Apr 28.

Mirrored Self-Misidentification Syndrome: A Systematic Review of Cases.

Hagouch A(1), Rouillon N(2), Kabbadj A(3), Proulx-Chartier L(4), Parenteau È(4), 
Li J(1)(5), Bocti C(1), Toffa DH(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Division, Université de Sherbrooke Health Centre (CHUS), 
Sherbrooke, QC, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Université de Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Université de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, QC, Canada.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Université de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, QC, Canada.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Montreal Health Centre Research Centre 
(CRCHUM), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)Neuroscience Department, Université de Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada.

ObjectiveMirrored self-misidentification syndrome (MSMS) is a rare form of 
delusional misidentification syndrome characterized by the inability to 
recognize one's own reflection. We conducted a systematic review aiming to 
describe the epidemiology, clinical presentation, and management of individuals 
with MSMS.MethodsA comprehensive literature search was performed using original 
case reports/series on patients with MSMS. Univariate analyses were performed to 
assess patient demographics, clinical, paraclinical, and treatment-related 
characteristics. The methodological quality of included articles was evaluated 
using a standardized tool.ResultsOf 76 articles screened, 28 were included, with 
36 patients analyzed. Median age was 77.0 (interquartile range: 72.0, 80.0) 
years; most patients were female (60.7%). Over half of the cases had a diagnosis 
of dementia, mostly Alzheimer's disease (50.0%), Lewy Body Disease (20.0%), and 
vascular dementia (10.0%), while the other diagnosis included stroke (3.3%), 
schizophrenia (3.3%), schizoaffective disorder (3.3%), and rabies (3.3%). 
Initial clinical manifestations included psychiatric symptoms (66.7%) and 
cognitive decline (70.0%). Brain magnetic resonance (MRI) was reported in 31 
cases, with 14 cases (45.1%) showing right hemisphere dysfunction. 
Pharmacological interventions were effective for twelve cases (48.0%), and 
non-pharmacological interventions such as covering mirror were effective for 8 
cases (32.0%). Most included articles (64.3%) were evaluated to be at low risk 
of bias.ConclusionsMSMS are rare conditions that mostly present in patients with 
dementia. Despite the varied clinical presentations, frontal and right 
hemisphere dysfunctions appear to play a role in the pathophysiology of MSMS, 
adding to the evidence supporting "a neuroanatomy of the self" in the 
non-dominant hemisphere.

DOI: 10.1177/08919887251338270
PMCID: PMC12433539
PMID: 40294306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: AH, NR, AK, LPC, EP, 
and DHT have nothing to disclose. JL is supported by the Fonds de recherche du 
Québec – Santé. CB holds equity in Imeka.


66. Nutr Neurosci. 2025 Sep;28(9):1177-1196. doi: 10.1080/1028415X.2025.2497036. 
Epub 2025 Apr 28.

Neuroprotective potential of paddy rice: advancing nutritional and therapeutic 
strategies for brain health.

Kothawade S(1), Padwal V(1), Bhosale S(1), Mhaske P(1), Jedhe R(1), Makhare 
S(1), Baheti D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, SCSSS's Sitabai Thite College of Pharmacy, 
Shirur, India.

OBJECTIVES: This review examines the neuroprotective potential of paddy rice 
bioactive compounds, with a focus on antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and 
neuroregenerative properties that may aid in preventing neurodegenerative 
diseases. Key compounds analyzed include tocotrienols, gamma-oryzanol, and 
phenolic acids.
METHOD: We conducted a comprehensive review of existing studies detailing the 
mechanisms by which paddy rice bioactives support brain health. These compounds 
were examined for their effects on oxidative stress reduction, neuroinflammation 
modulation, neurotransmitter regulation, and neurogenesis promotion.
RESULTS: Bioactives such as gamma-oryzanol and ferulic acid were found to 
decrease neuroinflammatory markers and support neurotransmitter function. 
Research shows paddy rice compounds enhance neural resilience and cognitive 
function, suggesting their potential role in managing disorders like Parkinson's 
and Alzheimer's disease.
CONCLUSION: While preclinical evidence underscores the therapeutic promise of 
paddy rice bioactives, further clinical studies are needed to confirm efficacy, 
establish optimal dosages, and improve bioavailability. This review advocates 
for advanced nutraceutical development using paddy rice to bridge preclinical 
findings and clinical applications.

DOI: 10.1080/1028415X.2025.2497036
PMID: 40294242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Brain. 2025 Aug 1;148(8):2631-2645. doi: 10.1093/brain/awaf130.

Emerging roles of transfer RNA fragments in the CNS.

Winek K(1), Soreq H(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Leibniz Institute on Aging, Fritz Lipmann Institute (FLI), Jena 07745, 
Germany.
(2)The Edmond and Lily Safra Center of Brain Science, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Jerusalem 9190401, Israel.
(3)The Silberman Institute of Life Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 
Jerusalem 9190401, Israel.

Transfer RNA-derived small RNAs (tsRNAs), previously considered inactive tRNA 
degradation products, have now been shown to be functional small non-coding 
RNAs. They may play important roles within the CNS and in brain-body 
interactions, both during normal developmental stages as well as in diverse 
brain pathologies. Among the cell types found in the CNS, tsRNAs are 
particularly abundant in neurons. Correspondingly, neurons show cell type 
specific tRNA expression profiles when compared to other cells of the CNS under 
homeostatic conditions and defects in tRNA processing may lead to neurological 
disorders. Disease-specific tsRNA profiles have been identified in a number of 
CNS disorders, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and epilepsy. Elevated 
levels of specific tsRNAs have been found in the blood before the onset of 
epileptic seizures; and age-related, sex-specific loss of mitochondrial 
genome-originated tsRNAs in the nucleus accumbens of female patients is 
correlated with accelerated cognitive deterioration in Alzheimer's disease. 
Disease-related tsRNA signatures have also been identified in the CSF of 
patients with Parkinson's disease, and nucleated blood cells from ischaemic 
stroke patients show specific elevation of cholinergic-targeted tsRNAs. The 
mechanisms of action of tsRNAs are still being elucidated but include targeting 
complementary mRNA to impact RNA levels and translation in a miRNA-like manner, 
direct interaction with RNA binding proteins, or interference with translation 
machinery. The function of tsRNAs may be affected by the chemical modifications 
they inherit from the originating tRNA molecules, which impact tsRNAs production 
and may modulate their interactions with proteins. Research on the genetics, 
biochemical properties and regulatory roles of tsRNAs has expanded rapidly in 
recent years, facilitated by novel sequencing strategies, which include the 
removal of tRNA modifications and chemically blocked ends that hinder 
amplification and adapter ligation. Future in-depth profiling of tsRNAs levels, 
mode(s) of function, and identification of interacting proteins and RNAs may 
together shed light on the impact of tsRNAs on neuronal function, and enable 
novel diagnostics/therapeutics avenues for brain diseases in age, sex and 
disease-specific manner.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awaf130
PMCID: PMC12316024
PMID: 40294208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.S. serves as the Senior Academic Advisor to 
the Azrieli Fellowship- program in Israel and is an inventor on a US Provisional 
Patent Application No. 63/531 628 filed 9 August 2023; entitled: METHODS FOR 
DETECTION, QUALIFICATION, OR MONITORING OF PARKINSON'S DISEASE.


68. Behav Pharmacol. 2025 Aug 1;36(5):290-299. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000825.
 Epub 2025 Apr 16.

Curcumin mitigates memory deficits induced by subcutaneous aluminum nanoparticle 
administration through modulation of hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor and Akt signaling pathways.

Reiszadeh Jahromi S(1), Keikhosravi Z(1)(2), SoukhakLari R(3), Moosavi M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Sistan and Balouchestan, Zahedan, Iran.
(2)Shiraz Neuroscience Research Centre, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(4)Nanomedicine and Nanobiology Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

Research has indicated a strong link between exposure to aluminum (Al) and the 
development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Given the rising use of Al 
nanoparticles, which are far more neurotoxic than Al, it is noteworthy to 
investigate the possible protective properties of natural substances. Curcumin, 
an important component of turmeric, has demonstrated neuroprotective effects in 
some animal studies. The main objective of this study was to examine the 
protective effects of curcumin on the memory deficit induced by subcutaneous 
aluminum oxide nanoparticles (Al-NP) administration in mice. Additionally, 
considering the roles of the hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor 
(BDNF) and Akt pathway in AD pathology, their levels were evaluated. Adult male 
Swiss mice (SWR/J) were administered Al-NP (10 mg/kg/s.c.) with or without 
curcumin (2.5, or 25 mg/kg/P.O) for 10 days. Memory and anxiety-like behavior 
were assessed using passive avoidance and elevated plus maze tasks, 
respectively. Western blot analysis was employed to measure hippocampal BDNF and 
Akt proteins in the hippocampus. The findings revealed that Al-NP induced memory 
impairment in mice, whereas curcumin at 25 mg/kg prevented this memory deficit. 
Additionally, Al-NP significantly reduced the hippocampal BDNF and 
phosphorylated Akt levels, while curcumin increased BDNF and phosphorylated Akt 
to a nonsignificant level compared to the control group. These results not only 
suggest the neuroprotective properties of curcumin but also suggest a possible 
association between hippocampal BDNF and Akt signaling in the neuroprotective 
mechanism of this compound against Al-NP toxicity.

Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000825
PMID: 40293979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. JAMA Neurol. 2025 Jun 1;82(6):580-588. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2025.0693.

Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers for Alzheimer Disease Among Patients With 
Dementia.

Skillbäck TB(1)(2), Jönsson L(3), Skoog I(1)(2), Blennow K(1)(4), Eriksdotter 
M(5)(6), Zetterberg H(1)(4)(7)(8)(9)(10), Kern S(1)(2)(11).

Author information:
(1)Region Västra Götaland, Department of Neuropsychiatry, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden.
(2)Neuropsychiatric Epidemiology Unit, Department of Psychiatry and 
Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Centre for Ageing and Health (AgeCap) at the University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department of 
Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(6)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(7)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
United Kingdom.
(8)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, United Kingdom.
(9)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(10)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison.
(11)Clinical Dementia Research, Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, 
Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.

IMPORTANCE: The defining pathological features of Alzheimer disease (AD) may 
also be contributing factors in other dementias.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the prevalence of β-amyloid (Aβ) and tau 
pathophysiological changes as indicated by cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers, as 
well as their association with clinical disease progression, across a broad 
range of dementias.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: In this cross-sectional study with a duration 
of 12 years (October 5, 2010, to August 31, 2022), clinical data from the 
Swedish registry for cognitive disorders and dementia (SveDem) were merged with 
clinical routine biomarker measurements of the core cerebrospinal fluid 
biomarkers of AD: Aβ1-42, total tau (t-tau), and phosphorylated tau 181 
(p-tau181). Participants were individuals with a dementia diagnosis who had a 
complete set of cerebrospinal fluid Aβ1-42, t-tau, and p-tau measurements 
registered less than 3 years after the date of diagnosis. Data were analyzed 
from April to November 2023.
EXPOSURES: Age, sex, and dementia diagnosis.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Biomarker profiles in relation to diagnosis and 
cognitive status as indicated by Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores.
RESULTS: Among 15 004 individuals with a dementia diagnosis in the SveDem 
database, 13 882 were included in this study (7328 females [53%], 6554 males 
[47%]; median [IQR] age, 74 [68-79] years). Apart from the AD groups 
(early-onset AD, 1150 [68%]; late-onset AD, 3392 [65%]; mixed AD and vascular 
dementia, 1038 [52%]), the dementia not otherwise specified group had the most 
patients (443 [25%]) with a clear AD-like biomarker profile, while Parkinson 
disease dementia and the frontotemporal dementia groups had the smallest shares 
(15 [9%] and 51 [8%], respectively). MMSE score was associated with 
cerebrospinal fluid Aβ1-42 in late-onset AD, vascular dementia, frontotemporal 
dementia, and dementia not otherwise specified; with t-tau in late-onset AD, 
early-onset AD, and dementia not otherwise specified; and with p-tau181 in 
early-onset AD.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Aβ-related pathology is a defining feature of AD, and 
most patients clinically diagnosed with AD have biomarker evidence of this 
process, but the same is found in other dementias, although less commonly. 
Cerebrospinal fluid biomarker concentrations of AD-like pathology were 
associated with cognitive function but mainly in patients with an AD-related 
diagnosis (early- and late-onset AD).

DOI: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2025.0693
PMCID: PMC12038718
PMID: 40293734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Jönsson has 
served as consultant for and/or received research funding from Novo Nordisk, H. 
Lundbeck, BioArctic, and Eli Lilly; received license fees through European 
Health Economics outside the submitted work; and had a patent for an RUD 
instrument licensed to European Health Economics. Dr Blennow has served as a 
consultant and at advisory boards for AbbVie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, 
BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, 
Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, Sanofi, and Siemens Healthineers; has served on 
data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, 
produced educational materials, and participated in educational programs for AC 
Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg, which is a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program, outside the submitted work. Dr Eriksdotter has 
served as consultant for BioArctic AB, Roche, and Biogen/ Eisai and given 
lectures in symposia sponsored by Roche. Dr Zetterberg has served on scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZPath, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, and Roche; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg, which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside the 
submitted work). Dr Kern has served on scientific advisory boards, as a speaker, 
and/or as consultant for Roche, Eli Lilly, Geras Solutions, Optoceutics, Biogen, 
Eisai, Merry Life, Triolab, Novo Nordisk and BioArctic outside the submitted 
work. No other disclosures were reported.


70. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Sep;62(9):11517-11528. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04970-x.
Epub  2025 Apr 28.

Revolutionizing Alzheimer's Detection: Immune-Related Gene Biomarkers as 
Non-Invasive Predictors.

Abed S(1), Ebrahimi A(1), Fattahi F(1), Shekari-Khaniani M(1), Mansoori 
Derakhshan S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Department of Genetics, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. 
Mansooris@tbzmed.ac.ir.

Despite recent advancements, the development of an efficient and non-invasive 
early detection approach for Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unresolved. The 
specificity of a diagnostic biomarker is contingent upon its foundation in the 
molecular basis of the diseases. Immune system dysfunction has a significant 
role in the genesis and progression of AِِD; thus, it should be included into 
the formulation of novel treatment and diagnostic strategies. A screening step 
was conducted through the analysis of a microarray dataset to identify 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and co-expression patterns using weighted 
gene co-expression network analysis. Subsequently, common genes were discovered 
and subjected to functional enrichment analysis. Subsequently, during the 
validation phase, the expression and diagnostic capabilities of candidate genes 
were evaluated in a group of 50 AD patients. Initially, 269 DEGs were found in 
the blood of AD patients. Analyzing the co-expression patterns revealed 18 
distinct topological modules, with the module exhibiting the highest correlation 
(blue) selected for further study. A compilation of immune-related genes was 
extracted from the Immunology Database and Analysis Portal (ImmPort) and 
cross-referenced with DEGs and genes inside the blue module, as the blue module 
was found to primarily govern immune response. The anomalous expression of three 
potential genes-specifically IL17C, TEK, and CCL4-was confirmed in the blood of 
AD patients by RT-PCR. A biomarker panel consisting of these genes attained an 
accuracy of 80.2%. The proposed biomarker in this study is based on the 
immunological response observed in AD and demonstrates high precision in 
identifying patients.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04970-x
PMID: 40293705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: This study was 
performed in line with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Approval 
was granted by the Ethics Committee of Tabriz University of Medical Sciences to 
ensure compliance with ethical standards (IR.TBZMED.REC.1402.524). An informed 
consent was obtained from all participants included in this study. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


71. Cell Biochem Biophys. 2025 Sep;83(3):3665-3676. doi:
10.1007/s12013-025-01745-y.  Epub 2025 Apr 28.

ABT263 Ameliorates Cellular Senescence, Aβ-Dependent Pathology and Cognitive 
Decline in Aged APP/PS1 Mice via Regulating PI3K/AKT/GSK-3β Pathways.

Tang Z(1), Wang XL(2), Deng YX(3), Xiao Y(1), Xu JW(4), Wang L(1), Qi XL(5).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Endemic and Ethnic Diseases, Ministry of Education & Key 
Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology of Guizhou Province, Guizhou Medical 
University, Guiyang, P. R. China.
(2)Laboratory Medicine, First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical University, 
Ganzhou, P. R. China.
(3)Center for Clinical Laboratories, The Affiliated Hospital of Guizhou Medical 
University, Guiyang, P. R. China.
(4)Guizhou Province Key Laboratory of Regenerative Medicine, Guiyang, P. R. 
China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Endemic and Ethnic Diseases, Ministry of Education & Key 
Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology of Guizhou Province, Guizhou Medical 
University, Guiyang, P. R. China. xlq@gmc.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease is defined pathologically by the irregular buildup of senile 
plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and associated neuroinflammation. As aging 
progresses, senescent cells gradually accumulate and significantly contribute to 
brain dysfunction; however, the precise mechanisms driving aging remain unclear. 
In the current study, ABT263, a potent senolytic drug, was administered orally 
to APP/PS1 mice (n = 16) for five days per cycle throughout the course of two 
cycles, and their behavioral tests in the Morris water maze were evaluated. 
Using mouse hippocampal tissue, senescence-related gene expression and 
SASP-associated protein expression were assessed using biochemical tests and 
immunohistochemical labeling. The Morris water maze test results indicated that 
ABT263 alleviated spatial memory impairment and reduced amyloid-β (Aβ) 
accumulation in APP/PS1 mice. Additionally, ABT263 treatment led to a decline in 
senescence-associated β-galactosidase activity, p16 senescence-related gene 
expression, and the expression of SASP-associated proteins, including IL-6, 
IL-8, and MMP-1. Further investigation revealed that ABT263 enhanced the 
phosphorylation levels of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) (Tyr458), 
serine/threonine kinase AKT (S473), and glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β) 
(Ser9) in APP/PS1 mice. Our results showed that ABT263 protected neurons against 
Aβ pathology, reduced the accumulation of senescent cells, and improved 
cognitive decline by enhancing PI3K/AKT/GSK-3 activity.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12013-025-01745-y
PMID: 40293699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with Ethical Standards. Conflict of 
Interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


72. FASEB J. 2025 May 15;39(9):e70575. doi: 10.1096/fj.202402797RR.

Aging and Lifestyle Modifications for Preventing Aging-Related Diseases.

Li Q(1)(2), Zhang H(1)(2), Xiao N(1)(2), Liang G(1)(2), Lin Y(1)(2), Yang 
X(1)(2), Yang J(1)(2), Qian Z(1)(2), Fu Y(1)(2), Zhang C(2)(3), Liu A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Medicine Center, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Vascular Aging, Ministry of Education, Tongji Hospital of 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 
China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

The pathogenesis of various chronic diseases is closely associated with aging. 
Aging of the cardiovascular system promotes the development of severe 
cardiovascular diseases with high mortality, including atherosclerosis, coronary 
heart disease, and myocardial infarction. Similarly, aging of the nervous system 
promotes the development of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's 
disease, which seriously impairs cognitive function. Aging of the 
musculoskeletal system is characterized by decreased function and mobility. The 
molecular basis of organ aging is cellular senescence, which involves multiple 
cellular and molecular mechanisms, such as impaired autophagy, metabolic 
imbalance, oxidative stress, and persistent inflammation. Given the ongoing 
demographic shift toward an aging society, strategies to delay or reduce the 
effects of aging have gained significance. Lifestyle modifications, such as 
exercise and calorie restriction, are now recognized for their anti-aging 
effects, their capacity to reduce modification, their potential to prolong 
lifespan, and their capacity to lower the risk of cardiovascular disease. This 
review elucidates the molecular mechanisms and application significance of 
various anti-aging approaches at the molecular level, based on research progress 
in aging. It aims to provide a reference for the prevention and treatment of 
age-related diseases in progressively aging societies.

© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.202402797RR
PMID: 40293686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2025 Apr 28;82(1):179. doi: 10.1007/s00018-025-05691-z.

Early involvement of D-serine in β-amyloid-dependent pathophysiology.

Billard JM(1)(2), Ploux E(3), Largilliere S(3), Corvaisier S(3), 
Gorisse-Hussonnois L(3), Radzishevsky I(4), Wolosker H(4), Freret T(5).

Author information:
(1)Normandie University, UNICAEN, INSERM, GIP CYCERON, COMETE, Caen, France. 
jean-marie.billard@inserm.fr.
(2)UNICAEN COMETE, INSERM UMR S-1075, GIP CYCERON, Bat GMPc, Campus Horowitz, Bd 
Henri Becquerel, Caen, CS14032, France. jean-marie.billard@inserm.fr.
(3)Normandie University, UNICAEN, INSERM, GIP CYCERON, COMETE, Caen, France.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel 
Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.
(5)Normandie University, UNICAEN, INSERM, GIP CYCERON, COMETE, Caen, France. 
thomas.freret@unicaen.fr.

The N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors (NMDAR) is a key 
regulator of brain plasticity encoding learning and memory. In addition to 
glutamate, NMDAR activation requires the binding of the co-agonist D-serine. The 
beta-amyloid (Aß) peptide which accumulates in Alzheimer's disease (AD), affects 
the D-serine-dependent NMDAR activation in vitro, but whether this alteration 
would significantly contribute to AD-related pathophysiology and memory deficits 
remains unclear. Herein, we report a decrease in the maximal pool of recruitable 
NMDAR and in the expression of NMDAR-dependent long-term potentiation together 
with impaired basal neurotransmission at CA3/CA1 synapses from hippocampal 
slices of 5xFAD mouse, an AD-related model with elevated Aß levels. The NMDAR 
synaptic impairments develop from 1.5 to 2 months of age with the initial rise 
of Aß and is correlated to a transient increase in D-serine levels. Deficits in 
working and spatial memories as well as cognitive flexibility then occurred in 
10-12 months-old animals. Importantly, the NMDA-related synaptic deregulations 
(but not the altered basal neurotransmission) and behavioral impairments 
(working and cognitive flexibility) are prevented or reduced (spatial memory) in 
5xFAD mice devoid of D-serine after genetic deletion of its synthesis enzyme 
serine racemase. Altogether, these results therefore provide in vivo evidence 
for the implication of D-serine at least in the early pathogenic signatures of 
AD driven by the increase in amyloid load suggesting that the recent proposal of 
preventive therapy of AD by administration of the precursor L-serine remains 
questionable.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-025-05691-z
PMCID: PMC12037454
PMID: 40293541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: This research 
was performed in compliance with relevant laws and institutional guidelines and 
approved by the appropriate institutional committees. All experiments were 
conducted in accordance with the ethical standards of French and European 
regulations (European Communities Council Directive 2010/63/EU. The supervisor 
of in vivo studies (JM Billard) received official authorization from the French 
Ministry of Agriculture to carry out research and experimentation on animals 
(project APAFIS24317, 12 May 2020). Competing interests: The authors have no 
relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose.


74. Sensors (Basel). 2025 Mar 20;25(6):1945. doi: 10.3390/s25061945.

Combining 24-Hour Continuous Monitoring of Time-Locked Heart Rate, Physical 
Activity and Gait in Older Adults: Preliminary Findings.

Asher EE(1), Gazit E(1), Montazeri N(2), Mejía-Mejía E(3), Godfrey R(3), Bennett 
DA(3), VanderHorst VG(4), Buchman AS(3), Lim ASP(2), Hausdorff JM(1)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Study of Movement, Cognition and Mobility, Neurological 
Institute, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv 6423906, Israel.
(2)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M4N 3M5, Canada.
(3)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
60612, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Division of Movement Disorders, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02215, USA.
(5)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Medical & Health Sciences and 
Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 6997801, Israel.

Hemodynamic homeostasis is essential for adapting the heart rate (HR) to 
postural and physiological changes during daily activities. Traditional HR 
monitoring, such as 24 hour (h) Holter monitoring, provides important 
information on homeostasis during daily living. However, this approach lacks 
concurrent activity recording, limiting insights into hemodynamic adaptation and 
our ability to interpret changes in HR. To address this, we utilized a novel 
wearable sensor system (ANNE@Sibel) to capture time-locked HR and daily activity 
(i.e., lying, sitting, standing, walking) data in 105 community-dwelling older 
adults. We developed custom tools to extract 24 h time-locked measurements and 
introduced a "heart rate response score" (HRRS), based on root Jensen-Shannon 
divergence, to quantify HR changes relative to activity. As expected, we found a 
progressive HR increase with more vigorous activities, though individual 
responses varied widely, highlighting heterogeneous HR adaptations. The HRRS 
(mean: 0.38 ± 0.14; min: -0.11; max: 0.74) summarized person-specific HR changes 
and was correlated with several clinical measures, including systolic blood 
pressure changes during postural transitions (r = 0.325, p = 0.003), orthostatic 
hypotension status, and calcium channel blocker medication use. These findings 
demonstrate the potential of unobtrusive sensors in remote phenotyping as a 
means of providing valuable physiological and behavioral data to enhance the 
quantitative description of aging phenotypes. This approach could enhance 
personalized medicine by informing targeted interventions based on hemodynamic 
adaptations during everyday activities.

DOI: 10.3390/s25061945
PMCID: PMC11946096
PMID: 40293112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


75. Int J Qual Stud Health Well-being. 2025 Dec;20(1):2494349. doi: 
10.1080/17482631.2025.2494349. Epub 2025 Apr 28.

Experience with an online positive psychology intervention for caregivers of 
people with Alzheimer's disease: an interpretative phenomenological analysis.

Dobignies M(1), Larochette C(1), Andreotti E(1), Millequant-Gourari F(1), 
Gonzalez de Linares J(1)(2), Lefebvre L(1), Cassagnaud P(2), Pasquier F(2), 
Antoine P(1).

Author information:
(1)CNRS, UMR 9193 - SCALab - Sciences Cognitives et Sciences Affectives, 
University Lille, Lille, France.
(2)CHU Lille, Department of Neurology, Memory Research and Resources Clinic, 
Lille, France.

PURPOSE: Considering the distress experienced by caregivers, numerous support 
systems have been devised. Recently, interventions focused on positive 
psychology have resulted in beneficial effects for caregivers. This study aimed 
to investigate the experience of caregivers of people with Alzheimer's disease 
with an online positive psychology intervention.
METHODS: To understand caregivers' experiences of an 8-week positive psychology 
intervention, 10 participants participated in a semistructured individual 
interview. Interpretative phenomenological analysis was carried out on the 
interviews.
RESULTS: Three themes were identified. [1] Engaging half-heartedly: Positive 
psychology was initially perceived as an unknown and caregivers expressed their 
scepticism before gradually integrating the intervention into their daily 
routine. [2] Letting yourself be destabilized: Caregivers went through an 
uncomfortable phase, becoming aware of their overprotective or controlling 
behaviours and the consequences of their psychological distress. [3] A 
springboard to change: Several realizations resulted in changes, such as 
reactivating internal resources and cultivating a more balanced outlook with 
less focus on the illness of the care receiver and the caregiving situation.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that caregivers were completely autonomous during 
the online intervention and engaged in the processes promoted by positive 
psychology, which supports further development of online resources for 
caregivers.

DOI: 10.1080/17482631.2025.2494349
PMCID: PMC12039410
PMID: 40292535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


76. Front Neurol. 2025 Apr 11;16:1422707. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1422707. 
eCollection 2025.

Decoding the genetic blueprints of neurological disorders: disease mechanisms 
and breakthrough gene therapies.

Saeed U(#)(1)(2), Piracha ZZ(#)(3)(4)(5), Tariq MN(6), Syed S(6), Rauf M(7), 
Razaq L(6), Iftikhar MK(8), Maqsood A(6), Ahsan SM(9).

Author information:
(1)Operational Research Center in Healthcare, Near East University, Nicosia, 
Türkiye.
(2)Foundation University School of Health Sciences (FUSH), Foundation University 
Islamabad, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)International Center of Medical Sciences Research (ICMSR), Islamabad, 
Pakistan.
(4)International Center of Medical Sciences Research (ICMSR), Austin, TX, United 
States.
(5)International Center of Medical Sciences Research (ICMSR), Essex, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Akhtar Saeed Medical & Dental College, Lahore, Pakistan.
(7)University College of Medicine and Dentistry, Lahore, Pakistan.
(8)Punjab Institute of Neurosciences, Lahore, Pakistan.
(9)Dow University of Health Sciences, Karachi, Pakistan.
(#)Contributed equally

Neurological disorders pose a rapidly growing global health burden, 
significantly affecting cognitive and motor functions with profound societal 
repercussions. This comprehensive review probe into the genetic foundations of 
various neurological conditions while exploring innovative RNA-based 
therapeutics particularly gene therapies as cutting edge treatment strategies. 
Through an in-depth analysis of existing literature, the study examines the 
genetic landscape, disease mechanisms, and gene-based intervention possibilities 
across a range of neurological disorders, including Cerebellar Ataxias, 
Autosomal Recessive Ataxia, Mitochondrial Cerebellar Ataxia, Multiple System 
Atrophy (MSA), Idiopathic Late-Onset Cerebellar Ataxia, Hereditary Spastic 
Paraplegias, Alzheimer's Disease, Vascular Dementia, Lewy Body Dementia, 
Frontotemporal Dementias, Inherited Prion Diseases, and Huntington's Disease. It 
uncovers the intricate network of genetic mutations driving these disorders, 
shedding light on their mechanisms and uncovering promising therapeutic targets. 
The review also highlights the remarkable potential of RNA-based therapeutics, 
with gene therapies standing at the forefront of precision treatment approaches. 
By offering an up-to-date understanding of the genetic intricacies and emerging 
therapeutic possibilities in neurological disorders, this study significantly 
contributes to the advancement of precision medicine in neurology. It also paves 
the way for future research and clinical applications aimed at improving patient 
care and outcomes.

Copyright © 2025 Saeed, Piracha, Tariq, Syed, Rauf, Razaq, Iftikhar, Maqsood and 
Ahsan.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2025.1422707
PMCID: PMC12022314
PMID: 40291849

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


77. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Apr 12:2025.04.12.648090. doi: 
10.1101/2025.04.12.648090.

Highly sensitive chemiluminescence imaging of misfolded proteins in 
neurodegenerative models.

Zhu B, Van R, Wang H, Kuang S, Jia Y, Leon EC, Yang F, Zhang J, Yang J, Hong H, 
Fleur Marie L, Yu A, Wang J, Tanzi RE, Zhang CM, Mao XM, Shao Y, Ran C.

Protein misfolding is a crucial pathological phenomenon driving 
neurodegenerative diseases that affect millions of people. Visualizing misfolded 
proteins would greatly facilitate early diagnosis, etiology elucidation, and 
therapy monitoring of neurodegeneration. Although several probes have been 
reported, versatile and sensitive detection in vivo is still challenging. We 
demonstrated that both generic and precise detection of misfolded proteins could 
be achieved with a chemiluminescence probe, ADLumin-1. For generic aspect, 
ADLumin-1 was highly sensitive to various misfolded proteins, showing up to 
127.73-fold higher signal-to-noise ratio than gold standard dye of Thioflavin T. 
ADLumin-1 could also non-invasively visualize misfolded proteins in mouse models 
of Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
For precise aspects, ADLumin-1 can selectively detect α-synuclein in CSF at the 
femtomolar level by combining with protein misfolding cyclic amplification 
technology in vitro. In addition, ADLumin-1 enables selective in vivo imaging of 
misfolded α-synuclein in transgenic mice models by employing bioorthogonal 
chemiluminescence resonance energy transfer strategy. Combining generality and 
precision, our findings could be widely applied in preclinical and clinical 
studies of neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.04.12.648090
PMCID: PMC12027370
PMID: 40291738


78. Mo Med. 2025 Mar-Apr;122(2):124-128.

Cognitive Stimulation Therapy: Making a Difference for Older Missourians 
Experiencing Dementia.

Nketsiah ET(1), Berg-Weger M(2), Zubatsky M(3).

Author information:
(1)PhD Candidate, Saint Louis University School of Social Work, St. Louis, 
Missouri.
(2)Professor Emeriti, Program Director, Geriatric Workforce Enhancement Program, 
Saint Louis University School of Social Work, St. Louis, Missouri.
(3)Associate Professor, Director, Medical Family Therapy Program and Aging & 
Memory Clinic, Department of Family & Community Medicine, Saint Louis University 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri.

Cognitive Stimulation Therapy (CST) is an evidence-based, non-pharmacological 
intervention designed to enhance cognitive function, quality of life, and 
emotional well-being in individuals with dementia. With the high prevalence of 
dementia and Alzheimer's disease in Missouri, CST provides an effective approach 
to address dementia-related symptoms. This paper aims to inform healthcare 
professionals about the benefits and practical applications of CST, 
demonstrating its effectiveness in addressing the cognitive, emotional, and 
social needs of dementia patients. Despite the heavy reliance on pharmacological 
treatments for dementia, CST stands out as a viable alternative, offering 
improvements in memory, language, executive function, and alleviating symptoms 
of depression and anxiety. CST's adaptability across diverse settings, including 
community centers, residential care homes, and virtual platforms, ensures broad 
accessibility. Research and training initiatives led by Saint Louis University 
further highlight CST's growing role in dementia care within the US healthcare 
system. Embracing CST in clinical practice is not just an option but a necessity 
to improve the lives of individuals with dementia and alleviate the growing 
burden on healthcare systems in Missouri and beyond.

Copyright 2025 by the Missouri State Medical Association.

PMCID: PMC12021387
PMID: 40291524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: This project is supported by the 
Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) of the US Department of 
Health and Human Services (HHS) under grant number U1Q53678 Geriatrics Workforce 
Enhancement Program for $1,000,000. This information or content and conclusions 
are those of the author and should not be construed as the official position or 
policy of, nor should any endorsements be inferred by HRSA, HHS, or the US 
Government. No financial disclosures reported. Artificial intelligence was not 
used in the study, research, preparation, or writing of this manuscript.


79. J Diabetes Metab Disord. 2025 Apr 23;24(1):107. doi:
10.1007/s40200-025-01611-x.  eCollection 2025 Jun.

Highlighted gene expression alteration in human pancreatic isolated islets in 
patients with type 2 diabetes.

Mansouri V(1), Arjmand B(2)(3), Nejad MR(4), Razzaghi Z(5), Rezaei-Tavirani 
M(1), Razi F(6), Bandarian F(7), Robati RM(8), Rezaei M(9)(10), Daneshimehr 
F(11).

Author information:
(1)Proteomics Research Center, Faculty of Paramedical Sciences, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Cell Therapy and Regenerative Medicine Research Center, Endocrinology and 
Metabolism Molecular-Cellular Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Iranian Cancer Control Center (MACSA), Tehran, Iran.
(4)Celiac Disease and Gluten Related Disorders Research Center, Research 
Institute for Gastroenterology and Liver Disease, Faculty of Medicine, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Laser Application in Medical Sciences Research Center, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Diabetes Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism Clinical Sciences 
Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(8)Skin Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(9)Genomic Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(10)Clinical Tuberculosis and Epidemiology Research Center, National Research 
Institute of Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases (NRITLD), Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(11)InGeneron Company, Green Tower, Deireh, Dobai, 1304 UAE.

OBJECTIVES: Type 2 diabetes is a complex disease characterized by progressive 
β-cell failure. The primary mechanism underlying this failure is the progressive 
loss of pancreatic β-cell function. The aim of this study is to identify the key 
gene expression changes in human pancreatic isolated islets of patients with 
type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: We extracted gene expression data in human pancreatic isolated islets 
of patients with type 2 diabetes and healthy controls from Gene Expression 
Omnibus (GEO) and analyzed it using GEO2R program. We then assessed the 
significant differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using protein-protein 
interaction (PPI) network analysis. The critical genes were enriched via gene 
ontology and discussed.
RESULTS: Among the 93 significant DEGs, five critical genes including ITGB2, 
APOE, BIRC5, GABRA2, and IL1B were emerged as key players in type 2 diabetes. 
Notably, "Alzheimer disease, type 4" was identified as a major class of 
biological terms altered in type 2 diabetes.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that the introduced critical genes are 
potential targets for controlling type 2 diabetes. Furthermore, the crucial role 
of APOE as a link between type 2 diabetes and Alzheimer's disease or other 
cognitive disorders was confirmed.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) 
holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the 
author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted 
manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such 
publishing agreement and applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s40200-025-01611-x
PMCID: PMC12018653
PMID: 40291507

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declared that 
they have no conflict of interest.


80. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Apr 24;11(2):e70090. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70090. 
eCollection 2025 Apr-Jun.

Clinically meaningful benefit and real-world evidence in Alzheimer's disease 
research and care.

Perneczky R(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Froelich L(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy University Hospital, LMU Munich 
Munich Germany.
(2)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Munich Munich Germany.
(3)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy) Munich Germany.
(4)Ageing Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, School of Public Health Imperial 
College London London UK.
(5)Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience (SITraN), University of 
Sheffield Sheffield UK.
(6)The International Registry for Alzheimer's Disease and Other Dementias 
Foundation (InRAD) Deventer The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry Central Institute of Mental Health 
Mannheim Germany.

In the realm of medical research, assessing novel therapies extends beyond 
statistical significance. The concept of meaningful benefits plays a pivotal 
role in determining the practical impact of interventions on patient outcomes. 
Clinical trials, which form the bedrock of evidence-based medicine, guide 
treatment decisions and shape health-care practices. While statistical 
significance remains a fundamental criterion, it falls short in fully evaluating 
the clinical relevance of therapeutic interventions. Clinically meaningful 
benefits focus on tangible improvements in patient health and well-being, 
transcending mere statistical thresholds. Key considerations include survival 
rates, symptom relief, functional status, and other patient-oriented outcomes. 
Determining meaningful benefits varies across diseases, patient populations, and 
available treatments. Balancing statistical rigor with clinical relevance is 
crucial. Overpowered trials may detect smaller differences than anticipated, 
necessitating careful interpretation. Researchers must view trial results 
through a patient-centric lens. Beyond survival, evaluating quality of life and 
side effects is equally relevant. Quantifying meaningful benefits involves 
metrics like numbers needed to treat and progression-free survival. Consistency 
across outcomes matters, as clinicians weigh gains in survival against 
improvements in quality of life. The pursuit of meaningful benefits elevates 
clinical trials from mere statistical exercises to patient-centered endeavors. 
Researchers, clinicians, and regulators must prioritize outcomes that genuinely 
matter to patients, ensuring that medical progress translates into meaningful 
improvements for them and their families.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70090
PMCID: PMC12022225
PMID: 40291121

Conflict of interest statement: R.P. has received honoraria for advisory boards 
and speaker engagements from Roche, EISAI, Eli Lilly, Biogen, Janssen‐Cilag, 
Astra Zeneca, Schwabe, Grifols, Novo Nordisk, and Tabuk; and was principal 
investigator on the aducanumab phase‐III trials. L.F. has received grants, 
consultancy fees, or lecture honoraria from Biogen, Eisai, Grifols, Hummingbird, 
InfectoPharm, Janssen‐Cilag, Merck Sharpe & Dohme, Neurimmune, Neuromodulation, 
Noselab, Novo Nordisk, Roche, TauRX, and Schwabe; has served on Data and Safety 
Monitoring boards with Otsuka, Pharmatrophix, Forschungszentrum Jülich, Charité 
Berlin, Neuroscios, and Vivoryon; was principal investigator on the lecanemab 
phase‐III trial; and is a co‐author on the publication of the lecanemab 
phase‐III study data.23 Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


81. J Pharm Anal. 2025 Apr;15(4):101043. doi: 10.1016/j.jpha.2024.101043. Epub
2024  Jul 17.

Pterostilbene: A natural neuroprotective stilbene with anti-Alzheimer's disease 
properties.

Gao S(1), Zhang H(1), Li N(2), Zhang L(2), Zhu Z(1), Xu C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, 110000, China.
(2)Departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, 110000, China.
(3)Departments of Cardiology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, 110000, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia, and no effective 
treatment has been developed for it thus far. Recently, the use of natural 
compounds in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases has garnered 
significant attention owing to their minimal adverse reactions. Accordingly, the 
potential therapeutic effect of pterostilbene (PTS) on AD has been demonstrated 
in multiple in vivo and in vitro experiments. In this study, we systematically 
reviewed and summarized the results of these studies investigating the use of 
PTS for treating AD. Analysis of the literature revealed that PTS may play a 
role in AD treatment through various mechanisms, including anti-oxidative 
damage, anti-neuroinflammation, anti-apoptosis, cholinesterase activity 
inhibition, attenuation of β-amyloid deposition, and tau protein 
hyperphosphorylation. Moreover, PTS interferes with the progression of AD by 
regulating the activities of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha 
(PPAR-α), monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), silent information regulator sirtuin 1 
(SIRT1), and phosphodiesterase 4A (PDE4A). Furthermore, to further elucidate the 
potential therapeutic mechanisms of PTS in AD, we employed network pharmacology 
and molecular docking technology to perform molecular docking of related 
proteins, and the obtained binding energies ranged from -2.83 to -5.14 kJ/mol, 
indicating that these proteins exhibit good binding ability with PTS. Network 
pharmacology analysis revealed multiple potential mechanisms of action for PTS 
in AD. In summary, by systematically collating and summarizing the relevant 
studies on the role of PTS in treatment of AD, it is anticipated that this will 
serve as a reference for the precise targeted prevention and treatment of AD, 
either using PTS or other developed drug interventions.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpha.2024.101043
PMCID: PMC12032911
PMID: 40291020

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


82. Mater Today Bio. 2025 Apr 11;32:101738. doi: 10.1016/j.mtbio.2025.101738. 
eCollection 2025 Jun.

Engineered exosomes improve the effects of curcumin on protecting mitochondria 
of neurons in Alzheimer's disease.

Ding YN(1)(2), Li MQ(1)(2), Song JY(1)(2), Guan PP(2), Wang P(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Shenzhen Technology University, 518118, PR China.
(2)College of Life and Health Sciences, Northeastern University, 110819, PR 
China.

The synthetic DSPE-PEG2000-C3 peptide and DSPE-PEG2000-TPP were designed to 
modify the exosomes (EXO) by incubation, through which guide the C3/TPP-EXO to 
target the injured mitochondria of neurons. Then, C3/TPP-EXO was further used to 
encapsulate the curcumin (CUR) to enhance the solubility and bioavailability of 
the drug. By intravenously injected (i.v) into taup301s mutant transgenic (Tg) 
mice, C3/TPP-EXO facilitated the CUR to target the mitochondria of neurons and 
increase the entry efficiency of medication. To further reveal the mechanisms of 
drug entry, sodium azide (NaN3), an energy inhibitor, was used to treat 
HT22 cells. The results demonstrated that the entrance efficiency of the 
engineered EXO is significantly affected suggesting that C3/TPP-EXO may target 
mitochondria through energy routes. To deeply study the exact molecular 
mechanisms of C3/TPP-EXO-CUR in treating AD, RNA-Seq was used to identify the 
relevant molecules. Through GO annotation, many genes are enriched in the 
pathways of mitochondria functions. Based on these RNA-Seq data, C3/TPP-EXO-CUR 
showed neuroprotective effects via modulating the protein expression of Bcl-2, 
Bax and caspase-3 in HT22 cells. To further confirm the in vitro results, the in 
vivo results revealed that C3/TPP-EXO-CUR treatment inhibited the 
phosphorylation of tau and protected neurons by inhibiting the apoptotic genes, 
leading to improve the memory decline of taup301s mice. Collectively, the 
current study revealed the benefits and mechanisms of C3/TPP-EXO-CUR for 
treating AD, which might provide a novel and effective therapeutic approach for 
the disease.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mtbio.2025.101738
PMCID: PMC12032918
PMID: 40290878

Conflict of interest statement: This manuscript has not been published or 
presented elsewhere in part or in entirety and is not under consideration by 
another journal. We have read and understood your journal's policies, and we 
believe that neither the manuscript nor the study violates any of these. There 
are no conflicts of interest to declare.


83. J Alzheimers Dis Rep. 2025 Apr 16;9:25424823251334054. doi: 
10.1177/25424823251334054. eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

Long-term safety and tolerability of brexpiprazole for Japanese patients with 
agitation in Alzheimer's disease dementia: A multicenter, open-label study.

Nakamura Y(1), Adachi J(2), Hirota N(2), Iba K(3), Shimizu K(4), Nakai M(5), 
Mori N(4), Takahashi K(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine/Graduate School of Medicine, Kagawa University, Kagawa, 
Japan.
(2)Headquarters of Clinical Development, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(3)Headquarters of Clinical Development, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Osaka, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Medical Affairs, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Medical Affairs, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The long-term safety and efficacy of brexpiprazole in Asian patients 
with agitation associated with dementia due to Alzheimer's disease are unknown.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the safety of 14-week treatment with brexpiprazole 1 or 
2 mg/day in Japanese patients who completed the 10-week double-blind treatment 
period in a parent phase 2/3 study, and to explore the efficacy of 
brexpiprazole.
METHODS: This was a phase 3 multicenter, open-label study (ClinicalTrials.gov 
Identifier NCT03724942, registered on 28 October 2018). Patients who had 
completed 10-week treatment of placebo, 1 or 2 mg/day of brexpiprazole in a 
parent study were rolled over into this extended study. The primary endpoint was 
the frequency of adverse events.
RESULTS: Of 183 patients with informed consent, 164 were treated with 
brexpiprazole 1 or 2 mg/day for 14 weeks (prior brexpiprazole subgroup: 102 
patients, prior placebo subgroup: 62 patients), and the overall study completion 
rate was 71.3%. The overall incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events was 
90.2% (in each subgroup, 90.2% and 90.3%, respectively). Most treatment-emergent 
adverse events were mild or moderate in severity, and no new safety signals were 
observed. Regarding the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory total score at Week 
14 (last observation carried forward), the mean change from baseline (standard 
deviation) was -4.0 (9.8).
CONCLUSIONS: The extended 14-week treatment with brexpiprazole 1 or 2 mg/day 
after 10-week treatment was generally well tolerated in Japanese patients with 
agitation associated with dementia due to Alzheimer's disease, and the efficacy 
was maintained.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/25424823251334054
PMCID: PMC12033557
PMID: 40290781

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared the following potential 
conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article: Yu Nakamura has received speakers’ honoraria, 
manuscript fee, research support, or scholarship donation from Otsuka 
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Meiji Seika Pharma Co., Ltd, Viatris Pharmaceutical 
K.K., Eisai Co., Ltd, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Teikoku Pharmaceutical 
K.K., Kowa Company Ltd, Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Towa Pharmaceutical 
Co., Ltd, MSD K.K., Biogen Japan Ltd, and Daiichi Sankyo Company Ltd. Jun 
Adachi, Naoki Hirota, Katsuhiro Iba, Koichi Shimizu, Masami Nakai, Naoki Mori, 
and Kaneyoshi Takahashi are full-time employees of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., 
Ltd.


84. J Alzheimers Dis Rep. 2025 Apr 15;9:25424823251335870. doi: 
10.1177/25424823251335870. eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

Potential cure of Alzheimer's disease by reducing the level of Cdk5 using two 
drugs, each with a different modus operandi.

Fessel J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.

There is need to understand the direct cause and, therefore, the appropriate 
treatment, of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A Google search was used to discern a) 
the primary cause of AD, and b) its treatment. Activation of Cdk5 is the primary 
cause for AD. Activation of Cdk5 may be decreased by using two drugs, 
roscovitine and tamoxifen, each having a different mechanism of action. Clinical 
trials should validate the efficacy and safety of using roscovitine and 
tamoxifen.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/25424823251335870
PMCID: PMC12033570
PMID: 40290779

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


85. Genes Dis. 2024 Sep 21;12(4):101437. doi: 10.1016/j.gendis.2024.101437. 
eCollection 2025 Jul.

Mitochondrial DNA editing: Key to the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.

Hong Y(1), Song Y(1)(2), Wang W(1), Shi J(1), Chen X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 310014, China.
(2)Hangzhou King's Bio-pharmaceutical Technology Co., Ltd., Hangzhou, Zhejiang 
310007, China.

Neuronal death is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction caused by mutations 
in mitochondrial DNA. Mitochondrial DNA becomes damaged when processes such as 
replication, repair, and nucleotide synthesis are compromised. This extensive 
accumulation of damaged mitochondrial DNA subsequently disrupts the normal 
function of mitochondria, leading to aging, degeneration, or even death of 
neurons. Mitochondrial dysfunction stands as a pivotal factor in the development 
of neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's 
disease, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Recognizing 
the intricate nature of their pathogenesis, there is an urgent need for more 
effective therapeutic interventions. In recent years, mitochondrial DNA editing 
tools such as zinc finger nucleases, double-stranded DNA deaminase toxin 
A-derived cytosine base editors, and transcription activator-like effector 
ligand deaminases have emerged. Their emergence will revolutionize the research 
and treatment of mitochondrial diseases. In this review, we summarize the 
advancements in mitochondrial base editing technology and anticipate its 
utilization in neurodegenerative diseases, offering insights that may inform 
preventive strategies and therapeutic interventions for disease phenotypes.

© 2024 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi 
Communications Co., Ltdé.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gendis.2024.101437
PMCID: PMC12022638
PMID: 40290120


86. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2025;22(3):174-178. doi: 
10.2174/0115672050379410250421065857.

Metabolic Regulation as a Potential Therapeutic Approach for Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Zhong J(1), Sun J(2), Zhou B(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Engineering Medicine, Beihang University, Beijing, China.
(2)School of Biomedical Science and Medicine Engineering, Beihang University, 
Beijing, China.

Lecanemab, a therapeutic antibody designed to target amyloid-beta (Aβ) 
clearance, has recently been approved by the FDA and introduced in multiple 
countries, representing a significant milestone in advancing Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) treatment. However, its limited clinical efficacy underscores the need for 
further investigation of disease pathogenesis. Emerging evidence suggests that 
glucose and lipid metabolism dysfunction plays a critical role in AD, with 
metabolic changes emerging as one of the most significantly altered pathways in 
the early stage of pathology. These findings highlight the therapeutic potential 
of targeting metabolic regulation as a strategy to address AD.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050379410250421065857
PMID: 40289967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70208. doi: 10.1002/alz.70208.

A comparison of p-tau assays for the specificity to detect tau changes in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Janelidze S(1), Ashton NJ(2)(3)(4), Orduña Dolado A(1), Nordström U(5), Bali 
D(1), Forsberg KME(5), Keskin I(5), Mastrangelo A(6), Vacchiano V(6)(7), Liguori 
R(6)(7), Blennow K(2)(8)(9)(10), Zetterberg H(2)(8)(11)(12)(13)(14), 
Mattsson-Carlgren N(1)(15)(16), Gonzalez-Ortiz F(2), Parchi P(6)(7), Andersen 
PM(5), Hansson O(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(3)Banner Alzheimer's Institute and University of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona, 
USA.
(4)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(5)Department of Clinical Sciences, Neurosciences, Umeå University, Umeå, 
Sweden.
(6)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche e Neuromotorie, Alma Mater Studiorum 
Università di Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(7)IRCC Istituto delle Scienze Neurologiche di Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(9)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(10)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, Anhui, P.R. China.
(11)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(12)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, Cruciform Building, London, UK.
(13)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(14)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(15)Memory Clinic the Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(16)Wallenberg Center for Molecular Medicine, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: We evaluated differences in p-tau levels between Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), a condition with brain-specific changes in p-tau, and amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS), a condition associated with increases in peripheral 
p-tau levels.
METHODS: Cerebrospinal fluid and plasma from 668 participants were analyzed 
using immunoassays specific for the low-molecular-weight (LMW) tau isoforms 
present in the brain (i.e., p-tau217Lilly, p-tau181Lilly) and those that detect 
both LMW- and high-molecular-weight (HMW) tau expressed in the peripheral 
nervous system (i.e., p-tau217AlzPath, p-tau181UGOT).
RESULTS: Increases in plasma p-tau in ALS versus controls were significantly 
smaller for the LMW-specific p-tau assays (15.9%-20.5%) compared with 
non-specific assays (92.0%-121.3%). The LMW-specific p-tau assays showed 
significantly larger plasma p-tau increases in AD versus ALS, discriminating AD 
from ALS with areas under the curve (AUCs; 0.890.93) higher than the AUCs of the 
non-specific assays (0.54-0.74).
DISCUSSION: LMW-specific p-tau assays could be more useful in the diagnostic 
workup of AD, especially in population-based communities where conditions 
causing peripheral neuropathy are frequent.
HIGHLIGHTS: Increases in plasma phosphorylated tau (p-tau) in amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS) versus controls were significantly smaller for 
low-molecular-weight (LMW)-specific p-tau assays (i.e., p-tau217Lilly, 
p-tau181Lilly) compared with p-tau assays that also detect high-molecular-weight 
(HMW) assays (i.e., p-tau217AlzPath, p-tau181UGOT). The LMW-specific p-tau 
assays showed significantly larger increases in plasma p-tau in AD versus ALS 
compared with the non-specific assays. The LMW-specific p-tau assays 
discriminated AD from ALS with higher precision, showing significantly better 
performance than the non-specific assays. LMW-specific p-tau assays could be 
more useful in the diagnostic workup of AD, especially in population-based 
communities where conditions causing peripheral neuropathy (such as ALS) are 
frequent.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70208
PMCID: PMC12035549
PMID: 40289884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: K.B. has served as a consultant and at advisory 
boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZpath, AriBio, Beckman‐Coulter, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, 
Prothena, Quanterix, Roche Diagnostics, Sanofi, and Siemens Healthineers; has 
served on data‐monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given 
lectures, produced educational materials, and participated in educational 
programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; 
and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which 
is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in 
this paper. H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant 
for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures 
sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). O.H. is a part‐time employee of Eli Lilly, and he has 
previously acquired research support (for Lund University) from AVID 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, C2N Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Fujirebio, GE 
Healthcare, and Roche. In the past 2 years, he has received consultancy/speaker 
fees from ALZpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol Meyer Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi, and Siemens. N.M.C. has 
received consultancy/speaker fees from Biogen, Owkin, and Merck. P.M.A.: Paid 
consultancies and serve/have served on advisory boards for Biogen, Roche, 
Arrowhead, Avrion, Regeneron, uniQure, Voyager, and Orphazyme A/S; and clinical 
trial site investigator for AB Science, AL‐S Pharma and Lilly, Amylyx, Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals, Biogen Idec, IBT‐Med, IONIS Pharmaceuticals, Mitsubishi Pharma, 
Novartis, Orion Pharma, PTC Pharmaceuticals, and Sanofi. Since 2021, a member of 
the ClinGen ALS Gene variant Curation Expert panel and an external advisor to 
the European Medicine Agency. R.L.: Paid consultancies and serve/have served on 
advisory boards for Alexion Pharma Italy s.r.l., Sanofi Genzyme Corporation, and 
Argenx. S.J., N.J.A., A.O.D., U.N., D.B., K.M.E.F., I.K., A.M., V.V., F.G.O., 
and P.P. report no conflicts of interest. Author disclosures are available in 
the supporting information.


88. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70171. doi: 10.1002/alz.70171.

Exploring inflammation-related protein expression and its relationship with TSPO 
PET in Alzheimer's disease.

Pola I(1), Ashton NJ(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Antônio De Bastiani M(6), Brum WS(1)(6), 
Rahmouni N(7)(8), Tan K(1), Machado LS(1), Servaes S(7)(8), Stevenson J(7)(8), 
Tissot C(7)(9), Therriault J(7)(9), Pascoal TA(10)(11), Blennow K(1)(12), 
Zetterberg H(1)(12)(13)(14)(15)(16), Zimmer ER(6)(7)(17)(18), Rosa-Neto P(7)(8), 
Benedet AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(2)Banner Alzheimer's Institute and University of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona, 
USA.
(3)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, 
Norway.
(4)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, 
Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute, London, UK.
(5)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health and Biomedical Research 
Unit for Dementia at South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation, London, UK.
(6)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Biochemistry, Universidade Federal 
do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(7)McGill Centre for Studies in Aging, McGill University, Verdun, Quebec, 
Canada.
(8)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, McGill 
University, Verdun, Quebec, Canada.
(9)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California, USA.
(10)Departments of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(12)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(13)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(14)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(15)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(16)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(17)Department of Pharmacology, Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: 
Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul 
(UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(18)Brain Institute of Rio Grande do Sul, PUCRS, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: To understand the role of neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), we characterized immune-related proteins in central and peripheral 
biofluids.
METHODS: Selection of participants from the Translational Biomarker of Aging and 
Dementia (TRIAD) cohort with available translocator protein (TSPO) positron 
emission tomography (PET), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (n = 97), and plasma 
(n = 165). Biofluid samples analyzed with Olink technology (368 inflammation 
proteins).
RESULTS: Elevated proteins levels in CSF of TSPO-positive individuals were 
identified. Functional enrichment analysis of CSF proteins revealed processes 
implicated in AD (MAPK, ERK cascades, cytokine, and leukocyte signaling). 
Selected candidates (CXCL1 and TNFRSF11B) showed high correlation with each 
other in CSF and with TSPO PET signal, but weaker associations with amyloid and 
tau PET. No significantly changed proteins in plasma between TSPO groups were 
found.
DISCUSSION: This explorative study identified two potential targets in CSF 
showing correlations with TSPO, amyloid and tau PET, suggesting a direct link 
between neuroinflammation, expression of these proteins and their potential 
implication in AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Several proteins are elevated in CSF of TSPO PET-positive 
individuals, linking them to neuroinflammation. Elevated CSF proteins were 
enriched in pathways such as MAPK, ERK, and cytokine signaling, linking them to 
the AD pathophysiology. Candidate proteins (CXCL1 and TNFRSF11B) correlated 
strongly with TSPO PET, particularly in brain regions known to be affected in 
AD. Although none of the plasma proteins remained significant after multiple 
comparisons correction when comparing their expression between TSPO groups, as 
done for CSF, candidate CSF proteins were found to correlate with plasmatic 
proteins, highlighting the complexity of the immune system.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70171
PMCID: PMC12035552
PMID: 40289873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Nicholas J. Ashton has served as consultant for 
Quanterix and has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Lilly, Quanterix and 
Biogen. Joseph Therriault has received consulting fees from the Neurotorium 
educational platform and from Alzheon Inc., outside of the scope of this work. 
Kaj Blennow has served as a consultant, at advisory boards, or at data 
monitoring committees for Acumen, Abcam, ALZ‐ path, AriBio, Axon, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Eisai, JOMDD/Shimadzu, Julius Clinical, Lilly, MagQu, Novartis, Ono 
Pharma, Pharmatrophix, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers, 
and is a co‐ founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which 
is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in 
this paper. Henrik Zetterberg has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as 
a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Annexon, Apellis, 
Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeuthics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, 
Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, 
Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Alzecure, Biogen, and Roche, and is a co‐ founder of 
Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program (outside sub‐ mitted work). All other authors report 
no disclosures. Eduardo R. Zimmer has served in the scientific advisory board of 
Nintx, Novo Nordisk and masima. He is also a co‐founder and a minority 
shareholder at masima. The other authors report no conflicts of interest. Author 
disclosures are available in the supporting information.


89. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70220. doi: 10.1002/alz.70220.

Genetic and environmental risk factors for dementia in African adults: A 
systematic review.

Donkor DM(1), Marfo E(1), Bockarie A(2), Tettevi EJ(3), Antwi MH(1)(4), Dogah 
J(1), Osei GN(1), Simpong DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, School of Allied Health Sciences, 
University of Cape Coast, Cape Coast, Ghana.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine and Therapeutics, School of Medical Sciences, 
University of Cape Coast, Cape Coast, Ghana.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Cell and Molecular Biology, School of Biological 
Science, University of Ghana, Accra, Ghana.
(4)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Koforidua Technical University, Koforidua, Ghana.

Dementia, a leading cause of global mortality, disproportionately impacts 
sub-Saharan Africans due to complex genetic and environmental interactions. This 
systematic review evaluated dementia risk factors among sub-Saharan Africans, 
identifying significant genetic and environmental influences using the Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. 
The ATP-binding cassette subfamily A member 7 (ABCA7) gene, linked to dementia 
in African Americans, and unique genetic variants like those in A-kinase anchor 
protein 9 (AKAP9) and cytidine deaminase (CDA) genes, emerge as potential 
contributors. Conversely, apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 shows lesser impact in 
older sub-Saharan Africans. Environmental findings highlight that exposure to 
air pollution, including nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter increases the 
likelihood of dementia. These findings highlight the role of genetic and 
environmental diversity in shaping dementia risk profiles. Strategies such as 
training health-care professionals, enhancing funding for research, combating 
stigma through awareness campaigns, and fostering global collaborations are 
vital to ensure African representation in dementia studies. These efforts aim to 
improve the knowledge of dementia tailored to sub-Saharan Africa's needs. 
HIGHLIGHTS: The ATP-binding cassette subfamily A member 7 (ABCA7) gene is 
strongly associated with dementia risk, particularly in African American 
populations. Apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4, a well-established risk factor for 
Alzheimer's disease in Western populations, has a lesser impact in older 
sub-Saharan Africans, suggesting unique genetic-environment interactions. 
Exposure to air pollutants, such as nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter, 
significantly increases dementia risk. The development of dementia in 
sub-Saharan Africans is influenced by complex interactions between genetic 
predispositions and environmental exposures, emphasizing the need for tailored 
prevention strategies.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70220
PMCID: PMC12035544
PMID: 40289851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in supporting information.


90. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70211. doi: 10.1002/alz.70211.

Longitudinal investigation of gait and Alzheimer's disease in adults with Down 
syndrome.

Barry A(1), Peven JC(2), Handen BL(3), Bolt D(1), Krinsky-McHale SJ(4), Hom 
CL(5), Clare ICH(6), Glueck A(7), Harp J(7), Schmitt F(7), Zammit M(1), Minhas 
D(8), Luo W(9), Laymon C(8), Price J(10), Lee JH(11), Lott I(12), Cohen A(2), 
Ances BM(13), Pulsifer M(10), Rosa HD(10), Lai F(13), Zaman SH(6), Head E(14), 
Mapstone M(15), Christian BT(1), Hartley SL(1)(16); Alzheimer Biomarker 
Consortium ‐ Down syndrome.

Author information:
(1)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Behavioral Health Service Line, VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(4)New York Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities, 
Department of Psychology, Staten Island, New York, USA.
(5)Deparment of Psychiatry & Human Behavior, University of California, Irvine, 
Irvine, California, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, USA.
(8)Department of Radiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(9)Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(11)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Sergievsky Center, and Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians 
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(12)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, Irvine School of 
Medicine, Irvine, California, USA.
(13)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine in St. 
Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(14)Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, University of California, 
Irvine School of Medicine, Irvine, California, USA.
(15)Department of Neurology, University of California, Irvine School of 
Medicine, Irvine, California, USA.
(16)Department of Human Development and Family Studies, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Gait abnormalities are associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in 
the general population, but it is unclear if the same is true for individuals 
with Down syndrome (DS). This study examined gait across 32 months in relation 
to neuroimaging biomarkers (amyloid beta [Aβ], neurofibrillary tangles [NFTs], 
and hippocampal volume), cognitive decline, and clinical AD status in adults 
with DS.
METHODS: Participants were 218 adults with DS who underwent Aβ and NFT positron 
emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, cognitive 
testing, and gait assessments at baseline and 32 months. Residual change 
regression models were conducted.
RESULTS: Higher baseline Aβ PET and NFT PET and lower MRI hippocampal volume 
were associated with gait declines across 32 months. Cognitive declines were 
associated with gait declines. Participants with clinical dementia at 32 months 
had greater gait decline than those who were cognitively stable.
DISCUSSION: Gait impairments are a key feature of DS-associated AD (DSAD). Gait 
assessments could offer a quick, cost-effective, non-invasive screen for DSAD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Those with clinical status of dementia had lower gait performance 
than those who were cognitively stable. Higher baseline amyloid beta and 
neurofibrillary tangle volume was associated with more gait impairments. Lower 
baseline hippocampal volume was associated with more gait impairments. Greater 
decline in gait performance was associated with cognitive decline. Greater 
decline in gait performance was associated with more dementia symptoms.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70211
PMCID: PMC12035545
PMID: 40289844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.M. received royalties from the University of 
Rochester and consulting fees from NovoGlia, Inc. and Ireno Health, PBC. S.Z. 
received royalties from Pavilion Publishing for CAMDEX‐DS‐II, paid to the 
Horizon‐21 Research Consortium. S.H. received consulting fees from Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals. M.Z. received consulting fees from LuMind IDSC. E.H. received 
consulting fees from Cyclo Therapeutics, Alzheon, and Elsevier.


91. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70185. doi: 10.1002/alz.70185.

Resilience in Alzheimer's disease: Impact of operationalization and 
methodological choices.

Mutel S(1)(2), Quatrocchi L(1)(2), Altomare D(3), Chicherio C(1)(2)(4), 
Scheffler M(5), Lövblad KO(6), Blennow K(7)(8)(9)(10), Ashton NJ(7)(11)(12)(13), 
Zetterberg H(7)(8)(14)(15)(16)(17), Abramowicz M(18), Blouin JL(18), Wang 
C(1)(2), Wyss-Dominguez C(18), Mendes AJ(1)(2), Garibotto V(19)(20)(21), Frisoni 
G(1)(2), Ribaldi F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuroimaging of Aging (LANVIE), University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(2)Geneva Memory Centre, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, Geneva 
University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Competence Centre on Ageing (CCA), Department of Business Economics, Health 
and Social Care (DEASS), University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Southern 
Switzerland (SUPSI), Manno, Switzerland.
(4)Center for Interdisciplinary Study of Gerontology and Vulnerability (CIGEV), 
University of Geneva, Carouge, Switzerland.
(5)Division of Radiology, Geneva University Hospitals, Thonex, Switzerland.
(6)Neurodiagnostic and Neurointerventional Division, Diagnostic Department, 
Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Göteborg, 
Sweden.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(9)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(10)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Centre, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, China.
(11)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, 
Norway.
(12)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, 
Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute, London, UK.
(13)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health & Biomedical Research Unit 
for Dementia at South London & Maudsley NHS Foundation, London, UK.
(14)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(15)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(16)Hong Kong Centre for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong Science Park, 
Shatin, Hong Kong, China.
(17)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Centre, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(18)Genetic Medicine Division, University Hospitals and University of Geneva, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(19)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers (NIMTlab), 
Geneva University Neurocentre and Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(20)Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Geneva University 
Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(21)Centre for Biomedical Imaging, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.

Erratum in
    Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Aug;21(8):e70585. doi: 10.1002/alz.70585.

INTRODUCTION: Resilience, the ability to maintain cognition or brain integrity 
despite Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology, is often quantified using the 
residual approach. However, the variability in methodology and correction 
methods for this approach raises concerns about the interpretability of findings 
across studies.
METHODS: We assessed brain resilience (BR) and cognitive resilience (CR) in a 
memory clinic population using the residual approach. We compared non-corrected 
and corrected residuals' associations with risk factors using linear regression 
models, and their impact on longitudinal cognition using linear mixed-effects 
models.
RESULTS: Corrected versus non-corrected BR yielded distinct, often opposing, 
associations. For example, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was negatively 
associated with non-corrected BR (β = -0.33; p < 0.01) but positively with 
corrected BR (β = 0.5, p < 0.001). Only corrected CR measures yielded 
significant associations. Only corrected residuals predicted cognitive decline.
DISCUSSION: The observed discrepancies raise questions about the reliability of 
the residual approach in accurately capturing resilience.
HIGHLIGHTS: Corrected and non-corrected residuals show distinct associations 
with risk factors. Corrected and non-corrected residuals show different 
predictions of cognitive decline. These approaches may reflect general brain 
health rather than true resilience mechanisms.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70185
PMCID: PMC12035551
PMID: 40289834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: HZ has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, 
Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given 
lectures sponsored by Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work). KB has served as a consultant and on advisory 
boards for Acumen, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. 
Ltd, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens 
Healthineers; has served on data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and 
Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials, and participated 
in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai, and Roche 
Diagnostics; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB 
(BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work 
presented in this paper. NJA has received consulting fees from Athria, 
ImaginationLand LLC, MapLight Therapeutics, SpeaBio, Neurogen Biomarking, 
Quanterix, TauRx; has given lectures sponsored by Alamar Biosciences, Biogen, 
Eli‐Lilly, Quanterix, VJDementia; and has participated on advisory boards for 
Biogen, TargetALS, and TauRx. VG received research support and speaker fees 
through her institution from GE Healthcare, Siemens Healthineers, Novo Nordisk, 
Janssen, and Novartis. GBF has received support, payment, consulting fees, or 
honoraria through his institution for lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educations events from: Biogen, Roche, Diadem, Novo 
Nordisk, GE Healthcare, OM Pharma, and Eisai. The other authors have no 
conflicts of interest to disclose.


92. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Apr;21(4):e70203. doi: 10.1002/alz.70203.

Survey on diagnosis and treatment of cognitive impairment in Sichuan area in 
China.

Gu R(1), Liu H(1), Zhao X(1), He X(2), Cai Q(3), Gong L(4), Song X(5), Xiong 
Y(1), Huang Y(1), Xu L(1), Wang K(1), Cao N(1), Xiong M(1), Zhu X(1)(6), Ye 
Q(1)(7), Zhang Z(1)(8), Xian M(9), Zhang H(10), Liu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Third People's Hospital of Chengdu, Chengdu, 
Sichuan, China.
(2)College of Electronics and Information Engineering, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(3)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, The Fourth People's Hospital of Chengdu, 
Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Chengdu Second People's Hospital, The Affiliated 
Hospital of Chengdu Medical College, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, ChengFei Hospital, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, Dujiangyan People's Hospital, Dujiangyan City, 
Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China.
(7)Department of Neurology, Pujiang County People's Hospital, Chengdu, Sichuan 
Province, China.
(8)Department of Neurology, Jintang County Second People's Hospital, Chengdu, 
Sichuan Province, China.
(9)Department of Neurology, Yingjing County People's Hospital, Ya'an, Sichuan 
Province, China.
(10)Internet Hospital Management Department, The Third People's Hospital of 
Chengdu, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China.

INTRODUCTION: Dementia imposes significant economic and emotional burdens, with 
cognitive impairment in China expected to rise. However, diagnosis and treatment 
remain inadequately standardized. This study surveyed cognitive impairment 
diagnosis and treatment in Sichuan, China.
METHODS: A retrospective multicenter study analyzed inpatient records from 13 
medical institutions over the past 5 years.
RESULTS: Patients exhibited delayed medical care-seeking, primarily visiting 
tertiary hospitals, where diagnostic and treatment capabilities were superior. 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) was the most common diagnosis, with memory impairment 
as the predominant initial symptom. Both pharmacological and non-pharmacological 
treatments were insufficient.
DISCUSSION: Findings underscore the need to enhance health education, allocate 
more diagnostic and intervention resources, and strengthen primary healthcare to 
improve care quality for patients with cognitive impairment in Sichuan.
HIGHLIGHTS: The prevalence of cognitive impairment in China is expected to surge 
significantly. Despite this trend, the diagnosis and treatment of cognitive 
disease in China remain unstandardized. A multicenter retrospective study of 
inpatient records with cognitive impairment or dementia as the first diagnosis 
treated at 13 medical facilities across Sichuan Province over the past 5 years 
was performed. The analysis revealed a pattern of delayed medical care-seeking 
among patients who predominantly accessed tertiary hospitals. Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) emerged as the most common diagnosis. Memory impairment was 
identified as the most frequent initial symptom. Tertiary hospitals demonstrated 
superior diagnostic and treatment capabilities compared to non-tertiary 
institutions. In addition, the results revealed that the patients received fewer 
pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments. The findings highlight the 
urgent need for the Sichuan region to strengthen health education on cognitive 
impairment, allocate more diagnostic and intervention resources, and enhance 
primary healthcare capabilities to improve the quality of care and life for 
patients with cognitive impairment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70203
PMCID: PMC12034935
PMID: 40289646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in Supporting Information.


93. BMC Neurol. 2025 Apr 28;25(1):186. doi: 10.1186/s12883-024-03989-2.

Comparative study of brain functional imaging of brain in patients with mild to 
moderate Alzheimer's disease based on functional near infrared spectroscopy.

Yang Z(1), Liu L(2), You T(1), Wang L(1), Yi F(3), Jiang Y(2), Zhou Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shaoyang University, 
Shao Yang City, 422000, China.
(2)Neurology Department, The First Hospital of Chang Sha, Chang Sha City, 
410000, China.
(3)Neurology Department, Zhuzhou Central Hospital, Zhuzhou City, 412000, China.
(4)Neurology Department, The First Hospital of Chang Sha, Chang Sha City, 
410000, China. 1007866422@qq.com.

OBJECTIVE: Based on the near-infrared functional brain imaging system, this 
research studied the hemoglobin concentration signal in resting state and task 
state. The purpose of this research was to analyze the activated brain regions 
and functional connections by exploring the changes in hemoglobin concentration 
and the differences in brain network functional connections between healthy 
people and mild to moderate AD patients. So as to identify the cognitive 
dysfunction of patients at an early stage. By accurately locating the area of 
cognitive impairment in patients, it provides a basis for precise neural 
regulation of physical therapy.
METHODS: Patients who came to our hospital from January 2022 to December 2022 
were recruited and selected according to the exclusion criteria. After receiving 
their informed consent, MMSE scale examination and near-infrared brain function 
imaging examination were performed in a relatively quiet environment.
RESULT: A total of 24 subjects were included in this study, including 7 in the 
control group (age: 72.57 ± 7.19) and 17 (age: 76.88 ± 9.29) in the AD group. 
The average cognitive scores were (28.00 ± 1.16), (19.24 ± 4.89), respectively. 
There were no statistically significant differences in gender, years of 
education, age, and past medical history between the AD group and the control 
group (P > 0.05). In the verbal fluency test (VFT) task, there was a significant 
difference in the activation values of the two groups in channels 01, 06, 07, 
09, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 21, 22, 23, 27, 29, 31, 35, 38, 40, 43, 44, 45, 51, and 
52II (p < 0.05), and the activation values of the normal group were greater than 
those of the AD group. There was a significant difference in the mean oxygenated 
hemoglobin concentration in channels 01, 07, 15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 31, 35, 40, 41, 
44, and 48 (p < 0.05), and the average oxygenated hemoglobin concentration in 
the AD group was lower than that in the normal group. There was no significant 
difference in activation speed between the two groups. In the resting state, the 
number of total network edges, DLPFC-L to PreM and SMC-L, DLPFC-L to FEF-L, 
DLPFC-L to DLPFC-L, FPA-L to PreM and SMC-L, FPA-L to FPA-L, FPA-R to FPA-L, 
DLPFC-L to DLPFC-R, FEF-R to PreM and There was a statistically significant 
difference in the number of network edges in SMC-L (p < 0.05). Among the 
different groups, the number of network edges in the AD group was smaller than 
that in the normal group. Correlation analysis showed that T14, T31, T16, T23, 
T27, M16, M22, M41 (T: represents activation value, M: represents mean 
hemoglobin concentration, and number represents channel number). There was a 
positive correlation between the total number of network edges, DLPFC-L to PreM 
and SMC-L, DLPFC-L to DLPFC-L, FPA-L to PreM and SMC-L, FPA-L to FPA-L, DLPFC-L 
to DLPFC-R, FEF-R to PreM and SMC-L, and MMSE scores (p < 0.05).
DISCUSSION: In this study, we found hemodynamic changes in the prefrontal lobes 
of AD patients under the VFT task, and the decrease in the functional 
connectivity of the prefrontal brain network in AD patients in the resting 
state, and these changes were associated with cognitive decline in patients. Our 
findings suggest that fNIRS may be used as a tool for future clinical screening 
for cognitive impairment, and may also be used to develop personalized 
preventive measures and treatment plans through accurate assessment.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12883-024-03989-2
PMCID: PMC12036162
PMID: 40289104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study followed the Declaration of Helsinki and received 
approval from the Ethics Committee of Changsha First Hospital on March 22, 
2024.And all participants and legal guardians provides written informed consent. 
Consent for publication: N/A. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


94. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 May 28;348:119870. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119870.
Epub  2025 Apr 25.

Iridoid glycosides in kidney-tonifying Chinese medicinal herbs: Mechanisms and 
implications for Alzheimer's disease therapy.

Qu Y(1), Ding M(2), Zhang M(2), Zheng L(3), Hu B(4), An H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 200032, China.
(3)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China. Electronic address: 
windy9453@126.com.
(4)Cancer Institute, Department of Oncology, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 200032, China. Electronic 
address: beearhu@shutcm.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Science & Technology, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 200032, China. Electronic address: 
lh2461@shutcm.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an incurable and 
irreversible type of dementia. Existing drugs cannot meet clinical needs; thus, 
developing new treatments is necessary. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has 
been used in the prevention and treatment of AD. TCM holds the theory that "the 
kidney support brain function" and believes that dementia can be addressed from 
a kidney-based perspective. Kidney-tonifying herbs are a class of medicines that 
have the effect of tonifying the kidney and benefiting the brain. Some of these 
herbs have been shown to have anti-AD effects. Iridoid glycosides (IGs), which 
are important components of kidney-tonifying herbs, may have the potential to 
prevent and treat AD. However, their effects on AD have not yet been reviewed.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: This literature review provides a comprehensive summary of 
the potential of IGs in the prevention and treatment of AD. It also sets the 
foundation for future studies that will make the use of such drugs in clinical 
practice possible.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Kidney-tonifying Chinese herbs were selected with 
reference to the Chinese Pharmacopoeia (2020 edition) and the textbook of 
Chinese Materia Medica (5th edition). Literature survey was conducted using 
PubMed, Web of Science, Google Scholar, and CNKI, with "Alzheimer's disease," 
"kidney-tonifying Chinese medicinal herbs," and "Iridoid Glycosides" as the 
primary keywords.
RESULTS: Kidney-tonifying herbal IGs include loganin, morroniside, verbenalin, 
cornuside, catalpol, rehmannioside A, geniposidic acid, and aucubin. These IGs 
have shown multiple pharmacological effects, including anti-AD effects. The 
effective mechanisms of IGs for AD treatment include anti-oxidative stress, 
inhibiting neuronal apoptosis, antagonizing amyloid neurotoxicity and tau 
protein hyperphosphorylation, regulating immune function, anti-inflammation, 
normalizing the function of the cholinergic nervous system, recuperating 
neurobiochemical, and regulating AD-related genes. Consequently, IGs can combat 
AD by modulating multiple targets and pathways.
CONCLUSION: Kidney-tonifying herbal IGs have great potential to combat AD.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119870
PMID: 40288663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


95. J Biol Chem. 2025 Jun;301(6):108541. doi: 10.1016/j.jbc.2025.108541. Epub
2025  Apr 25.

Ebola virus nucleoprotein interaction with host protein phosphatase-1 regulates 
its dimerization and capsid formation.

Ahmad A(1), Tigabu B(2), Ivanov A(1), Jerebtsova M(3), Ammosova T(4), Ramanathan 
P(5), Kumari N(6), Brantner CA(7), Pietzsch CA(2), Simhadri J(1), Abdullah G(8), 
Uversky VN(9), Paromov V(10), Popratiloff A(7), Widen S(11), Bukreyev A(12), 
Nekhai S(13).

Author information:
(1)Center for Sickle Cell Disease, Howard University, Washington, District of 
Columbia, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, 
Galveston, Texas, USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology, College of Medicine, Howard University, 
Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(4)Center for Sickle Cell Disease, Howard University, Washington, District of 
Columbia, USA; Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, Howard University, 
Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, 
Galveston, Texas, USA; Galveston National Laboratory, University of Texas 
Medical Branch at Galveston, Galveston, Texas, USA.
(6)Center for Sickle Cell Disease, Howard University, Washington, District of 
Columbia, USA; Department of Microbiology, College of Medicine, Howard 
University, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(7)GW Nanofabrication and Imaging Center, The George Washington University, 
Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(8)Department of Biology, College of Art and Science, Howard University, 
Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(9)Department of Molecular Medicine and USF Health Byrd Alzheimer's Research 
Institute, Morsani College of Medicine, University of South Florida, Tampa, 
Florida, USA.
(10)Meharry Proteomics Core, RCMI Research Capacity Core, School of Medicine, 
Meharry Medical College, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(11)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas 
Medical Branch at Galveston, Galveston, Texas, USA.
(12)Department of Pathology, University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, 
Galveston, Texas, USA; Galveston National Laboratory, University of Texas 
Medical Branch at Galveston, Galveston, Texas, USA; Department Microbiology & 
Immunology, University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, Galveston, Texas, 
USA. Electronic address: evabukreye@utmb.edu.
(13)Center for Sickle Cell Disease, Howard University, Washington, District of 
Columbia, USA; Department of Microbiology, College of Medicine, Howard 
University, Washington, District of Columbia, USA; Department of Medicine, 
College of Medicine, Howard University, Washington, District of Columbia, USA. 
Electronic address: snekhai@howard.edu.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2023 Jun 06:rs.3.rs-2963943. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-2963943/v1.

Ebola virus (EBOV) replication is regulated by the host protein phosphatases, 
PP1 and PP2A, which dephosphorylate the transcriptional cofactor of EBOV 
polymerase VP30. The PP1-targeting compound 1E7-03 induces VP30 phosphorylation 
and inhibits EBOV infection. Here, we investigate the broader role of PP1 in 
EBOV replication and transcription, including its interaction with nucleoprotein 
(NP). When EBOV-infected cells were continuously treated with 1E7-03, the NP 
E619K mutation was found and selected for further analysis. The NP E619K 
mutation moderately reduced the EBOV minigenome transcription, which was 
restored by the treatment with 1E7-03. Proteomics, immunoprecipitation, 
dimerization, split NanoBit, and colocalization analyses indicated that NP 
interacts with PP1 and that NP E619K mutations enhanced this binding. Treatment 
with 1E7-03 dissociated PP1-NP complex, but enhanced NP dimerization, which was 
more pronounced for NP E619K mutant. Mutation and deletion analyses pointed to 
several potential PP1-binding sites in NP that were located in the moderately 
disordered NP regions. When NP was co-expressed with VP24 and VP35, formation of 
EBOV capsids was impaired with NP E619K mutation. Treatment with 1E7-03 restored 
the capsid formation by the NP E619K mutant but inhibited capsids formed by WT 
NP. Our findings suggest that PP1 binds to NP and that this binding might 
regulate NP dimerization and capsid formation. Collectively, our results point 
to a new role for PP1 in EBOV replication, in which NP binding to PP1 may 
facilitate viral transcription by delaying capsid formation and EBOV 
replication.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbc.2025.108541
PMCID: PMC12152876
PMID: 40288648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interests The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interests with the contents of this article.


96. J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol. 2025 Jul;251:106766. doi: 
10.1016/j.jsbmb.2025.106766. Epub 2025 Apr 25.

Therapeutic potential of enzymes, neurosteroids, and synthetic steroids in 
neurodegenerative disorders: A critical review.

Servi R(1), Akkoç RF(2), Aksu F(3), Servi S(4).

Author information:
(1)Fırat University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Anatomy, Elazığ, Turkey. 
Electronic address: refikservi19@hotmail.com.
(2)Fırat University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Anatomy, Elazığ, Turkey. 
Electronic address: fakkoc@firat.edu.tr.
(3)Fırat University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Anatomy, Elazığ, Turkey. 
Electronic address: feyzaaksu@firat.edu.tr.
(4)Fırat University, Faculty of Science, Department of Chemistry, Elazığ, 
Turkey. Electronic address: sservi@firat.edu.tr.

Neurodegenerative disorders present a significant challenge to healthcare 
systems, mainly due to the limited availability of effective treatment options 
to halt or reverse disease progression. Endogenous steroids synthesized in the 
central nervous system, such as pregnenolone (PREG), dehydroepiandrosterone 
(DHEA), progesterone (PROG), and allopregnanolone (ALLO), have been identified 
as potential therapeutic agents for neurodegenerative diseases. Neurosteroids 
such as ALLO, DHEA, and PROG, as well as their synthetic analogs like 
Ganaxolene, Fluasterone, and Olexoxime, offer promising effects for conditions 
such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and depression. Moreover, Brexanolone and 
Ganaxolone are synthetic steroids approved for the treatment of postpartum 
depression and epilepsy, respectively. Neurosteroids such as ALLO are crucial in 
modulating GABAergic neurotransmission and reducing neuroinflammation. These 
compounds enhance the activity of GABA-A receptors, leading to increased 
inhibitory signaling in the brain, which can help regulate mood, cognition, and 
neuroprotection. Small clinical trials and observational studies indicate that 
ALLO may have cognitive benefits, but no large-scale, definitive meta-analysis 
confirms a 20 % improvement in AD patients. Mitochondrial dysfunction plays a 
vital role in the pathogenesis of numerous neurological diseases due to the 
high-energy demand and sensitivity of neurons to oxidative stress. Reduced 
mitochondrial function leads to amyloid-beta plaques and tau tangles 
accumulation in AD. In Parkinson's disease (PD), mitochondrial dysfunction 
resulting from the PINK1 or Parkin genes leads to energy deficiencies and the 
accumulation of toxic byproducts. Mutations in genes such as SOD1, C9orf72, and 
TDP-43 have been associated with mitochondrial dysfunction in amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS). Moreover, studies on these neurodegenerative diseases 
suggest that inflammation is not merely a consequence of neurodegeneration but 
is also an essential factor in this process. Many neurological disorders involve 
multifaceted interactions between genetics, the environment, and immune 
responses, making it difficult to pinpoint their exact causes. Future research 
aims to overcome these hurdles through genetic advances, regenerative medicine, 
and personalized therapies. Cutting-edge technologies such as artificial 
intelligence and high-throughput screening are expected to accelerate drug 
discovery and improve diagnostic accuracy. Increasing collaboration between 
interdisciplinary fields such as bioinformatics, neuroscience, and immunology 
will lead to innovative treatment strategies. This comprehensive review 
discusses the therapeutic effects of enzymes, neurosteroids, and synthetic 
steroids in different neurodegenerative diseases, particularly AD, PD, ALS, and 
MS. Potential challenges in the therapeutic use of neurosteroids, such as the 
limited bioavailability and off-target effects of synthetic steroids, are also 
discussed, and an up-to-date and comprehensive review of the impact of these 
steroids on neurodegenerative disorders is presented.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsbmb.2025.106766
PMID: 40288591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could influence the work reported in this article.


97. Am J Emerg Med. 2025 Aug;94:144-147. doi: 10.1016/j.ajem.2025.04.047. Epub
2025  Apr 22.

Rivastigmine as an alternative treatment for anticholinergic toxidrome in light 
of the physostigmine shortage: A case series.

Berg M(1), Strand A(2), Garrett ND(1), Keric A(1), Wilkinson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Regions Hospital, 640 Jackson St, St Paul, MN 55101, United States of 
America.
(2)Regions Hospital, 640 Jackson St, St Paul, MN 55101, United States of 
America. Electronic address: annikajstrand12@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: Physostigmine is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor historically 
used for the treatment of anticholinergic toxicity. Supply of physostigmine has 
been limited as the US manufacturer recently stopped production. Rivastigmine, a 
long-acting acetylcholinesterase inhibitor FDA-approved for the treatment of 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease dementia, is a potential alternative to 
physostigmine. There are few case reports and case series demonstrating the safe 
and effective use of both oral and transdermal rivastigmine for anticholinergic 
toxicity. The objective of this study was to describe the effects of 
rivastigmine in patients with anticholinergic toxicity.
METHODS: A retrospective case review of patients that received rivastigmine at a 
metropolitan level-1 trauma center between January 2022-January 2024 resulted in 
12 patients who met inclusion/exclusion criteria and were included in this 
analysis. Data collected included xenobiotic ingested, co-ingestions, symptoms 
on presentation, rivastigmine capsule and/or patch administration, adverse 
events, benzodiazepine administration, disposition, ICU and hospital length of 
stay.
RESULTS: Of 12 patients, 9 had co-ingestions of other prescription or 
over-the-counter medications. 2 of 12 patients received both rivastigmine 
patches and capsules, 8 of 12 received only patches, and 2 of 12 received only 
capsules. The average dose of rivastigmine patches was 8.66 mg and average 
capsule dose was 6 mg. None of the patients experienced adverse effects from 
rivastigmine use. Length of stay ranged from 2 to 9 days with an average of 
3.6 days.
CONCLUSION: Our study shows that rivastigmine is a reasonable alternative to 
physostigmine based on the lack of adverse events reported and symptom relief.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajem.2025.04.047
PMID: 40288328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No COI to 
discuss.


98. Biosens Bioelectron. 2025 Aug 15;282:117506. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2025.117506.
 Epub 2025 Apr 23.

Novel 6xHis/HaloTag mammalian expressed autoantigens for the detection of 
humoral response with multiplexed electrochemical biosensors: A breakthrough in 
colorectal cancer and Alzheimer's disease personalized diagnostics.

Povedano E(1), Garranzo-Asensio M(2), Montero-Calle A(2), Valverde A(1), 
Dalmasso P(3), San Segundo-Acosta P(2), Cano O(4), Vázquez M(4), Mas V(4), 
Fernández-Aceñero MJ(5), Rivas G(6), Pingarrón JM(7), Campuzano S(8), Barderas 
R(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Chemical Sciences, Complutense 
University of Madrid, Plaza de Las Ciencias 2, 28040, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Chronic Disease Programme, UFIEC, Institute of Health Carlos III, 
Majadahonda, 28220, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Research and Transfer Center in Environmental Chemical Engineering, CONICET, 
Córdoba Regional Faculty, National Technological University, Maestro López Esq. 
Cruz Roja Argentina, 5016, Córdoba, Argentina.
(4)Respiratory Viruses Laboratory, National Center for Microbiology Instituto de 
Salud Carlos III Majadahonda, 28220, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Department of Legal Medicine, Psychiatry and Surgical Pathology, Universidad 
Complutense de Madrid, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Clínico San Carlos 
(IdISCC), Surgical Pathology Department, Hospital Universitario Clínico San 
Carlos, E-28040, Madrid, Spain.
(6)Institute of Physical-Chemical Research of Córdoba, CONICET-UNC, Faculty of 
Chemical Sciences, National University of Córdoba, University City, 5000, 
Córdoba, Argentina.
(7)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Chemical Sciences, Complutense 
University of Madrid, Plaza de Las Ciencias 2, 28040, Madrid, Spain. Electronic 
address: pingarro@quim.ucm.es.
(8)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Chemical Sciences, Complutense 
University of Madrid, Plaza de Las Ciencias 2, 28040, Madrid, Spain; CIBER of 
Frailty and Healthy Aging (CIBERFES), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 28046, 
Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: susanacr@quim.ucm.es.
(9)Chronic Disease Programme, UFIEC, Institute of Health Carlos III, 
Majadahonda, 28220, Madrid, Spain; CIBER of Frailty and Healthy Aging 
(CIBERFES), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 28046, Madrid, Spain. Electronic 
address: r.barderasm@isciii.es.

The integration of autoantibody detection with electrochemical biosensors allows 
the development of a novel strategy for managing colorectal cancer (CRC) and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). This work reports the use, for the first time, of 
sustainable receptors, autoantigens expressed in mammalian cells, fused to 6xHis 
at the N-terminus and HaloTag at the C-terminus, immobilized on 
chloroalkane-modified magnetic beads (MBs) to selectively capture plasma 
autoantibodies. Detection was based on amperometric measurements using 
disposable multiplexed screen-printed carbon electrodes (x8 sensing surfaces), 
horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated secondary antibodies, and the HQ/H2O2 
system. HaloTag immobilization gave rise to a great sensitivity allowing 
discrimination between patients and healthy individuals in comparison with 
HisTag or -COOH immobilization. The CRC biosensor integrated seven CRC-specific 
full-length autoantigens, while the AD bioplatform combined three AD-specific 
full-length proteins and four AD-specific peptides, which allowed a robust 
diagnostic performance validated by ROC analyses. These multiplexed biosensors 
provide minimally invasive, cost-effective, and sustainable alternatives to 
traditional diagnostic methods, and show ideal for discovery of new targets and 
for mass screening and early disease detection, supporting personalized medicine 
approaches.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2025.117506
PMID: 40288309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


99. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Aug 5;292:117678. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117678.
Epub  2025 Apr 22.

Novel tacrine-based multi-target directed Ligands: Enhancing cholinesterase 
inhibition, NMDA receptor antagonism, and CNS bioavailability for Alzheimer's 
disease treatment.

Svobodova B(1), Moravcova Z(2), Misiachna A(3), Novakova G(4), Marek A(4), 
Finger V(5), Odvarkova J(6), Pejchal J(6), Karasova JZ(6), Netolicky J(3), 
Ladislav M(3), Hrabinova M(1), Sorf A(7), Muckova L(1), Fikejzlova L(6), Benkova 
M(5), Novak M(5), Prchal L(5), Capek J(8), Handl J(8), Rousar T(8), Greber 
KE(9), Ciura K(10), Horak M(11), Soukup O(12), Korabecny J(13).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Research Center, University Hospital Hradec Kralove, Sokolska 581, 
500 05 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic; Department of Toxicology and Military 
Pharmacy, Military Faculty of Medicine, University of Defence, Trebesska 1575, 
500 01, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Organic and Bioorganic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy in Hradec 
Kralove, Charles University, Akademika Heyrovskeho 1203, 50005, Hradec Kralove, 
Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Neurochemistry, Institute of Experimental Medicine of the Czech 
Academy of Sciences, Videnska 1083, 142 20, Prague, Czech Republic; Department 
of Physiology, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague, Albertov 6, 
Prague 2, 12843, Czech Republic.
(4)Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry, Czech Academy of Sciences, 
Flemingovo nam. 2, Prague 6, 166 10, Czech Republic.
(5)Biomedical Research Center, University Hospital Hradec Kralove, Sokolska 581, 
500 05 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(6)Department of Toxicology and Military Pharmacy, Military Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Defence, Trebesska 1575, 500 01, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(7)Department of Toxicology and Military Pharmacy, Military Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Defence, Trebesska 1575, 500 01, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic; 
Department of Social and Clinical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy in Hradec 
Kralove, Charles University, Akademika Heyrovskeho 1203, 50005, Hradec Kralove, 
Czech Republic.
(8)Department of Biological and Biochemical Sciences, Faculty of Chemical 
Technology, University of Pardubice, Studentska 573, 532 10, Pardubice, Czech 
Republic.
(9)Department of Physical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University of 
Gdansk, Aleja Generała Jozefa Hallera 107, 80-416, Gdansk, Poland.
(10)Department of Physical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University of 
Gdansk, Aleja Generała Jozefa Hallera 107, 80-416, Gdansk, Poland; Laboratory of 
Environmental Chemoinformatics, Faculty of Chemistry, University of Gdansk, Wita 
Stwosza 63, 80-308, Gdansk, Poland.
(11)Department of Neurochemistry, Institute of Experimental Medicine of the 
Czech Academy of Sciences, Videnska 1083, 142 20, Prague, Czech Republic.
(12)Biomedical Research Center, University Hospital Hradec Kralove, Sokolska 
581, 500 05 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic. Electronic address: 
ondrej.soukup@fnhk.cz.
(13)Biomedical Research Center, University Hospital Hradec Kralove, Sokolska 
581, 500 05 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic; Department of Toxicology and 
Military Pharmacy, Military Faculty of Medicine, University of Defence, 
Trebesska 1575, 500 01, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic. Electronic address: 
jan.korabecny@fnhk.cz.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifaceted neurodegenerative disorder for which 
current treatments provide only symptomatic relief, primarily through 
cholinesterase (ChE) inhibition and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) 
antagonism. To improve therapeutic efficacy and safety, we designed and 
synthesized 16 novel tacrine derivatives modified at position 7 with various 
(hetero)aryl groups or deuterium substitution. Initially, in silico screening 
predicted favorable CNS permeability and oral bioavailability. Subsequent in 
vitro evaluations demonstrated significant inhibitory potency against 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), with derivatives 
5i and 5m displaying particularly promising profiles. Metabolic stability 
assessed using human liver microsomes revealed enhanced stability for compound 
5e, whereas 5i and 5m underwent rapid metabolism. Notably, compound 7 showed 
improved metabolic stability attributed to deuterium incorporation. The newly 
synthesized compounds were further tested for antagonistic activity on the 
GluN1/GluN2B subtype of NMDAR, with compound 5m exhibiting the most potent and 
voltage-independent inhibition. The ability of these compounds to permeate the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) was confirmed through in vitro PAMPA assays. In 
preliminary hepatotoxicity screening (HepG2 cells), most derivatives exhibited 
higher cytotoxicity than tacrine, emphasizing the ongoing challenge in 
hepatotoxicity management. Based on its overall favorable profile, compound 5m 
advanced to in vivo pharmacokinetic studies in mice, demonstrating efficient CNS 
penetration, with brain concentrations exceeding plasma levels (brain-to-plasma 
ratio 2.36), indicating active transport across the BBB. These findings 
highlight compound 5m as a promising tacrine-based multi-target-directed ligand, 
supporting further preclinical development as a potential therapeutic candidate 
for AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117678
PMID: 40288120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


100. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2025 Jul;267:108799. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2025.108799. Epub 2025 Apr 20.

Computational modelling for risk assessment of neurological disorder in diabetes 
using Hodgkin-Huxley model.

Govindaraju D(1), Subbian S(2), Narayanan SN(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Instrumentation Engineering, MIT Campus, Anna University, 
Chennai 44, Tamil Nadu, India. Electronic address: gdivyaice@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Instrumentation Engineering, MIT Campus, Anna University, 
Chennai 44, Tamil Nadu, India.

BACKGROUND: Diabetes mellitus, characterized by chronic glucose dysregulation, 
significantly increases the risk of neurological disorders such as cognitive 
decline, seizures, and Alzheimer's disease. As neurons depend on glucose for 
energy, fluctuations in glucose levels can disrupt sodium (Na⁺) and potassium 
(K⁺) ion channel dynamics, leading to altered membrane potential. Modeling these 
ionic changes enables the simulation of neuronal responses under glycemic 
extremes, providing valuable insights for risk assessment and personalized 
treatment.
METHOD: The methodology utilizes Support Vector Machines (SVM) and Convolutional 
Neural Networks (CNN) to classify hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic events based on 
variations in blood glucose levels. A glucose-sensing neuron model is developed 
using the Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) framework to examine how glycemic fluctuations 
influence Na⁺ and K⁺ channel conductance. The study uniquely alters maximal 
conductance values to precisely simulate the effects of hyper- and hypoglycemia 
on ion channel behaviour and neuronal excitability.
RESULTS: The blood glucose classification results indicate that the CNN 
classifier effectively detects hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, achieving an 
accuracy of 90.23 %, sensitivity of 87.45 %, specificity of 88.56 %, and 
precision of 89.31 %. Computational modeling shows that hyperglycemia decreases 
Na⁺ currents and increases K⁺ conductance, reducing neuronal excitability. In 
contrast, hypoglycemia increases Na⁺ activity and decreases K⁺ conductance, 
leading to excessive neuronal firing and rapid action potentials.
CONCLUSION: The proposed glucose-sensing neuron model captures how glycemic 
variations affect Na⁺ and K⁺ conductance and neuronal excitability. Integrating 
machine learning with HH modeling enables risk assessment of 
hypoglycemia-induced neuronal hyperexcitability and seizures, as well as 
hyperglycemia-associated insulin resistance and long-term risk of cognitive 
decline and Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2025.108799
PMID: 40287992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.