1. J Biol Chem. 2025 Apr;301(4):108356. doi: 10.1016/j.jbc.2025.108356. Epub 2025
 Feb 25.

A high-throughput assay platform to discover small molecule activators of the 
phospholipase PLC-γ2 to treat Alzheimer's disease.

Carr AJ(1), Hajicek N(2), Tsai AP(3), Acharya PP(1), Hardy PB(4), Meyer E(1), 
Wyss-Coray T(3), Pearce KH(5), Sondek J(6), Zhang Q(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry, Eshelman School of 
Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, California, 
USA; Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.
(4)Center for Integrative Chemical Biology and Drug Discovery, Eshelman School 
of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA.
(5)Division of Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry, Eshelman School of 
Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA; Center for Integrative Chemical Biology and Drug Discovery, 
Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina, USA; Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, School of 
Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA; Lineberger Comprehensive 
Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA; Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, School of Medicine, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(7)Division of Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry, Eshelman School of 
Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA; Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA; Department of 
Biochemistry and Biophysics, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA. Electronic address: 
qszhang@unc.edu.

A naturally occurring missense variant of the phospholipase C isozyme, PLC-γ2, 
harboring a single substitution (P522R) protects against several 
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. The phospholipase 
activity of PLC-γ2 (P522R) is slightly elevated relative to its WT counterpart, 
and the general consensus is that this increased activity in microglia confers 
protection against neurodegeneration. In order to phenocopy this protection, we 
have developed a high-throughput assay to identify small molecule activators of 
PLC-γ2. The assay takes advantage of the fluorescent reporter, XY-69, embedded 
in lipid vesicles to readout the allosteric activation of PLC-γ2. The assay is 
highly reproducible and capable of identifying compounds with a large range of 
efficacies. A series of secondary assays have been established to define the 
selectivity of compounds for PLC-γ2, establish relevant activation of PLC-γ2 by 
compounds in a microglia cell line, and measure affinities between PLC-γ2 and 
hit compounds. The established workflow was prototyped using approximately 6000 
compounds to produce several promising hits, but more importantly, enables 
screens of much larger chemical libraries to identify selective activators of 
PLC-γ2 to be used as chemical probes and drug leads.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbc.2025.108356
PMCID: PMC12131191
PMID: 40015642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest with the contents of this article.


2. Brain Res Bull. 2025 Apr;223:111280. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111280. 
Epub 2025 Feb 25.

Treadmill exercise ameliorates hippocampal synaptic injury and recognition 
memory deficits by TREM2 in AD rat model.

Zhang L(1), Liu Y(2), Wang X(3), Wu H(4), Xie J(5), Liu Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of physical education, Henan normal university, Xinxiang 453007, 
China; Provincial University Key Laboratory of Sport and Health Science, School 
of Physical Education and Sport Sciences, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou 
350007, China.
(2)School of physical education and health, Henan University of China Medicine, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(3)Provincial University Key Laboratory of Sport and Health Science, School of 
Physical Education and Sport Sciences, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou 350007, 
China.
(4)Comprehensive Key Laboratory of Sports Ability Evaluation and Research of the 
General Administration of Sport of China, Beijing Key Laboratory of Sports 
Function Assessment and Technical Analysis, Capital University of Physical 
Education and Sports, Beijing 100191, China.
(5)Department of Physical Education and Research, Fuzhou University, Fuzhou 
350108, China. Electronic address: t07064@fzu.edu.cn.
(6)Provincial University Key Laboratory of Sport and Health Science, School of 
Physical Education and Sport Sciences, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou 350007, 
China. Electronic address: liuyiping20210908@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: The impairment of cognitive function has been associated with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Exercise exerts a positive modulatory effect on 
cognition by reducing synapse injury. However, limited in vivo evidence is 
available to validate the neuroprotective effect of TREM2 on synaptic function 
in this phenomenon. Here, we aim to explore whether physical exercise 
pretreatment alters Aβ-induced recognition memory impairment in structural 
synaptic plasticity within the hippocampus in AD rats. METHODS：: In study 1, 
fifty-two Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into following four 
groups: control group (C group, n = 13), Alzheimer's disease group (AD group, 
n = 13), 4 weeks of physical exercise and Alzheimer's disease group (Exe+AD 
group, n = 13), 4 weeks of physical exercise and blank group (Exercise group, 
n = 13). Four weeks of treadmill exercise intervention was performed, and AD 
model were established by intra-cerebroventricular injection (ICV) injection of 
Aβ1-42 protein. After 3 weeks, we also conducted a novel object test to evaluate 
recognition memory in the behavior assessment. Golgi staining and transmission 
electron microscopy were used to evaluate the morphology and synaptic 
ultrastructure of neurons. Western blotting was used to measure the expression 
of hippocampal synaptic proteins. Extracellular neurotransmitters in the 
hippocampus were detected by microdialysis coupled with high-performance liquid 
chromatography. In study 2, 33 SD rats were randomly divided into three groups: 
4 weeks of physical exercise and Alzheimer's disease group (Exe+AD group, 
n = 11), AAV-Control and physical exercise and Alzheimer's disease group 
(AAV-Control+Exe+AD group, n = 11), AAV-TREM2 and physical exercise and 
Alzheimer's disease group (AAV-TREM2 +Exe+AD group, n = 11). Stereotactic 
intracerebral injection in the bilateral hippocampus was performed to achieve 
microglial TREM2 down-expression by using adeno-associated virus (AAV) with CD68 
promoter. After 4 weeks treadmill exercise and 3 weeks Aβ injection, all rats 
received behavior test and molecular experiment, which the same with experiment 
2.
RESULTS: Novel recognition index in novel object recognition test significantly 
decreased, and western blot demonstrate that hippocampal TREM2 protein is 
significantly decreased (P < 0.001). But physical exercise reversed this 
phenomenon(P < 0.001). In addition, compared with Con group, the neuron from 
Exe+AD group exhibited a more complex branching pattern (P < 0.05). And impaired 
synaptic ultrastructure was observed in AD group. Hippocampal synaptic-related 
protein (SYX, SYP, GAP43, PSD95) and neurotransmitter (DA, Glu, GABA) was also 
significantly decreased (P < 0.01) in AD group. But the neuroprotection effect 
can be found in Exe+AD group, which are associated with the inhibition of 
synaptic injury by activate hippocampal TREM2 (P < 0.05). However, when blockade 
of hippocampal TREM2 reduced brain protective effect of exercise in AD rat 
model, including increased the damage of neuronal dendritic complexity, synaptic 
ultrastructure, and the decrease of hippocampal synapses-related protein, 
typical neurotransmitter.
CONCLUSION: Treadmill exercise facilitated recognition memory acquisition via 
TREM2-mediated structural synaptic plasticity of the hippocampus in an AD rat 
model.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111280
PMID: 40015348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declared that they have no competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in thia 
paper.


3. Lancet Healthy Longev. 2025 Feb;6(2):100678. doi: 10.1016/j.lanhl.2024.100678.
 Epub 2025 Feb 24.

Associations between moderate-to-vigorous physical activity, p-tau181, and 
cognition in healthy older adults with memory complaints: a secondary analysis 
from the MAPT.

Raffin J(1), Blennow K(2), Rolland Y(3), Cantet C(4), Guyonnet S(5), Vellas 
B(3), de Souto Barreto P(3); MAPT/IHU HealthAge Open Science Group.

Author information:
(1)IHU HealthAge, Toulouse, France; Institut du Vieillissement, Gérontopôle de 
Toulouse, Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire de Toulouse, Toulouse, France. 
Electronic address: jeremy.raffin@live.fr.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(3)IHU HealthAge, Toulouse, France; Institut du Vieillissement, Gérontopôle de 
Toulouse, Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire de Toulouse, Toulouse, France; CERPOP 
UMR 1295, University of Toulouse III, Inserm, UPS, Toulouse, France.
(4)CERPOP UMR 1295, University of Toulouse III, Inserm, UPS, Toulouse, France.
(5)IHU HealthAge, Toulouse, France; Institut du Vieillissement, Gérontopôle de 
Toulouse, Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire de Toulouse, Toulouse, France.

BACKGROUND: Physical activity provides benefits against cognitive decline but 
its associations with Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology are not fully 
understood. We investigated cross-sectional and longitudinal associations 
between moderate-to-vigorous physical activity and phosphorylated (p)-tau181 
blood concentrations, and the role of p-tau181 in the associations between 
moderate-to-vigorous physical activity and cognition.
METHODS: In this post-hoc secondary analysis, we used data from a multicentre, 
randomised, placebo-controlled superiority trial (the Multidomain Alzheimer's 
Preventive Trial [MAPT]), in which adults aged 70 years and older were recruited 
from the community in 13 memory centres in France and Monaco. Individuals were 
eligible if they met at least one of the following criteria: spontaneous memory 
complaints, low gait speed (≤0·77 m/s), or limitation in at least one 
instrumental activity of daily living. Exclusion criteria included a dementia 
diagnosis, a Mini Mental State Examination score below 24, and having 
limitations in basic activities of daily living. For this secondary analysis, 
participants from MAPT were included if they had blood p-tau181 concentrations 
measured at baseline or at 3 years, or both timepoints. Self-reported 
moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (in metabolic equivalent of task min per 
week) and a cognitive composite score (calculated by averaging the Z scores of 
four cognitive tests) were assessed at baseline and at 6 months and at 1, 2, and 
3 years. Mixed-effect models were used to examine the cross-sectional and 
longitudinal associations between moderate-to-vigorous physical activity and 
p-tau181 concentrations and to explore the mediating and moderating role of 
p-tau181 concentration on the association between moderate-to-vigorous physical 
activity and cognition.
FINDINGS: Between May 30, 2008, and Feb 24, 2011, 1679 individuals were enrolled 
in the MAPT, of whom 558 adults had measurements of p-tau181 concentrations at 
baseline, 3 years, or both timepoints. Higher levels of moderate-to-vigorous 
physical activity were associated with slower changes in p-tau181 concentrations 
over time. Compared with inactive individuals, those with low levels of activity 
(low moderate-to-vigorous physical activity × time: B = -0·109 [95% CI -0·206 to 
-0·012; p=0·028]) or high levels of activity (high moderate-to-vigorous physical 
activity × time: B=-0·114 [95% CI -0·208 to -0·020; p=0·018) had a slower 
increase in p-tau181 concentrations. We did not identify any association between 
baseline p-tau181 concentrations and baseline moderate-to-vigorous physical 
activity levels. The cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between 
moderate-to-vigorous physical activity and cognition were attenuated with 
increasing baseline p-tau181 concentrations. Specifically, moderate-to-vigorous 
physical activity was no longer favourably associated with the cognitive 
composite score when baseline p-tau181 concentration exceeded 9·36 pg/mL and 
3·5 pg/mL for the cross-sectional association and longitudinal association, 
respectively.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings suggest that engaging in more moderate-to-vigorous 
physical activity might help to slow the age-related neurodegenerative process, 
although p-tau pathophysiology seems to mitigate the beneficial associations 
between moderate-to-vigorous physical activity and cognition in older adults. 
Verification of these findings in larger population samples will be needed.
FUNDING: Toulouse Gérontopôle, French Ministry of Health, and Pierre Fabre 
Research Institute.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lanhl.2024.100678
PMID: 40015298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests KB received grants or 
contracts from the Swedish Research Council (#2017-00915 and #2022-00732); the 
Swedish state under the agreement between the Swedish Government and the County 
Councils, the ALF-agreement (#ALFGBG-715986 and #ALFGBG-965240); the Swedish 
Alzheimer Foundation (#AF-930351, #AF-939721, #AF-968270, and #AF-994551); 
Hjärnfonden, Sweden (#FO2017-0243 and #ALZ2022-0006); the Alzheimer’s 
Association 2021 Zenith Award (ZEN-21-848495); the Alzheimer’s Association 
2022-2025 Grant (SG-23-1038904 QC); La Fondation Recherche Alzheimer (FRA), 
Paris, France; the Kirsten and Freddy Johansen Foundation, Copenhagen, Denmark; 
and the Familjen Rönströms Stiftelse, Stockholm, Sweden; he has served as a 
consultant on an advisory board for AbbVie, AriBio, ALZpath, Aribio, BioArctic, 
AC Immune, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Neurimmune, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche 
Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; he produced educational materials and 
participated in educational programmes for Biogen, Esai, and Roche Diagnostics; 
he served at data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis, and is 
the co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is 
part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program. All other authors declare no 
competing interests.


4. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2025 Mar 25;754:151526. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.151526. Epub 2025 Feb 21.

The role of exosomes in diagnosis, pathophysiology, and management of 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Daksh R(1), Mathew MS(2), Bosco AM(2), Sojan C(2), Tom AA(2), Bojja SL(1), 
Nampoothiri M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, 576104, India.
(2)Nirmala College of Pharmacy, Kerala University of Health Sciences, Kerala, 
India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, 576104, India. Electronic address: 
madhavan.ng@manipal.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with 
impaired cognitive function and memory loss. Currently, available therapeutics 
can effectively alleviate the symptoms of AD, but there is a lack of treatment 
to halt the progression of the disease. In recent years, exosomes have gained 
much attention due to their involvement in various neurological disorders. 
Exosomes are small extracellular vesicles comprising lipids, proteins, DNA, 
non-coding RNA, and mRNAs, can carry various therapeutic molecules, and are 
potential drug delivery vehicles. Exosomes are known as a double-edged sword due 
to their involvement in both the pathogenesis and management of AD. This review 
explores the function of exosomes in the pathophysiology, treatment, and 
diagnosis of AD, also emphasizing their potential as a targeted drug delivery 
carrier to the brain. This review seeks to provide novel perspectives to 
understand better the onset, targeted treatment, and diagnosis of AD using 
exosomes.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.151526
PMID: 40015072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
report there is no competing interest to declare with respect to the research, 
authorship and/or publication of this article.


5. Geriatr Nurs. 2025 Mar-Apr;62(Pt B):203-214. doi: 
10.1016/j.gerinurse.2025.02.007. Epub 2025 Feb 26.

Scoping review of outpatient dementia care programs in the U.S. from 2011-2023.

Kovaleva MA(1), Epps F(2), Jennings BM(3), Song MK(3), Clevenger C(4), Griffiths 
PC(5), Balas M(6), Oliver S(7), Simon K(6), Golden A(6), Hepburn K(8).

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska Medical Center College of Nursing, Omaha, NE, USA. 
Electronic address: mkovaleva@unmc.edu.
(2)University of Texas Health Science Center San Antonio School of Nursing, San 
Antonio, TX, USA.
(3)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA; 
Integrated Memory Clinic, Emory Healthcare, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(5)Emory University School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA; Georgia Institute of Technology, Center for Assistive Technology and 
Environmental Access, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(6)University of Nebraska Medical Center College of Nursing, Omaha, NE, USA.
(7)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA; 
Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(8)University of Texas Health Science Center San Antonio School of Nursing, San 
Antonio, TX, USA; Integrated Memory Clinic, Emory Healthcare, Atlanta, GA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Mainstream primary care settings are suboptimal for providing high 
quality, accessible outpatient care for persons living with dementia (PLWD). To 
enhance dementia care quality and access, interprofessional dementia care 
programs have been implemented. We sought to review the characteristics of these 
programs.
METHODS: Guideline-directed (Arksey & O'Malley, 2005) scoping review of the U.S. 
dementia care programs (2011-2023).
RESULTS: Twenty-three dementia care programs, described in 72 articles, were 
identified. All programs were focused on improving dementia care. The programs 
featured interprofessional approach, PLWD and caregiver involvement, and care 
access and continuity. Programs varied in scope, specifics of the populations 
served, duration and types of services, affiliation, linkage with primary care, 
staff' credentials, delivery mode, assessments, outcomes, and challenges. 
Financial and implementation barriers were commonly reported.
CONCLUSION: Dementia care programs remain few and highly variable. Addressing 
financial and implementation barriers is essential for the viability and wider 
adoption of these programs.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2025.02.007
PMID: 40014913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest none for all 
authors.


6. Pharm Dev Technol. 2025 Mar;30(3):259-267. doi: 10.1080/10837450.2025.2470351.
 Epub 2025 Mar 4.

Saccharomyces cerevisiae-derived vesicles loaded with dextromethorphan as a 
candidate for the management of neuroinflammation related to Alzheimer's 
disease.

Valizadeh P(1)(2), Mozafari N(2), Ashrafi H(2), Heidari R(3), Azarpira N(4), 
Azadi A(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Pharmaceuticals Sciences Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(4)Transplant Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that is associated with 
neuroinflammation. Dextromethorphan (DXM) exerts neuroprotective effects in many 
central nervous system injuries and neurodegenerative diseases. The cell wall of 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a cell-based drug delivery system that can be a 
suitable candidate for targeted drug delivery to the site of inflammation. In 
this study, nanoparticles (NPs) were prepared from Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell 
walls, coated with polysorbate-80, and loaded with DXM. NPs had favorable 
hemolytic behavior with a particle size distribution of 187.25 ± 73.37 nm and a 
zeta potential of +4.3 mV. Pathological examination in a mouse model of 
neuroinflammation showed that NPs had the ability to reduce brain inflammation 
and the adverse effects of DXM.

DOI: 10.1080/10837450.2025.2470351
PMID: 40014618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2025 Mar 4;122(9):e2418179122. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2418179122. Epub 2025 Feb 27.

S-Nitrosylation of CRTC1 in Alzheimer's disease impairs CREB-dependent gene 
expression induced by neuronal activity.

Zhang X(1), Vlkolinsky R(2), Wu C(1), Dolatabadi N(1), Scott H(1), Prikhodko 
O(3), Zhang A(1), Blanco M(1), Lang N(1), Piña-Crespo J(1), Nakamura T(1), 
Roberto M(2), Lipton SA(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurodegeneration New Medicines Center and Department of Molecular & Cellular 
Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037.
(2)Department of Translational Medicine, The Scripps Research Institute, La 
Jolla, CA 92037.
(3)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, School of 
Medicine, La Jolla, CA 92093.

cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB)-regulated transcription coactivator 
1 (CRTC1) plays an important role in synaptic plasticity, learning, and 
long-term memory formation through the regulation of neuronal activity-dependent 
gene expression, and CRTC1 dysregulation is implicated in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Here, we show that increased S-nitrosylation of CRTC1 (forming SNO-CRTC1), 
as seen in cell-based, animal-based, and human-induced pluripotent stem cell 
(hiPSC)-derived cerebrocortical neuron-based AD models, disrupts its binding 
with CREB and diminishes the activity-dependent gene expression mediated by the 
CRTC1/CREB pathway. We identified Cys216 of CRTC1 as the primary target of 
S-nitrosylation by nitric oxide (NO)-related species. Using CRISPR/Cas9 
techniques, we mutated Cys216 to Ala in hiPSC-derived cerebrocortical neurons 
bearing one allele of the APPSwe mutation (AD-hiPSC neurons). Introduction of 
this nonnitrosylatable CRTC1 mutant rescued defects in AD-hiPSC neurons, 
including decreased neurite length and increased neuronal cell death. 
Additionally, expression of nonnitrosylatable CRTC1 in vivo in the hippocampus 
rescued synaptic plasticity in the form of long-term potentiation in 5XFAD mice. 
Taken together, these results demonstrate that formation of SNO-CRTC1 
contributes to the pathogenesis of AD by attenuating the neuronal 
activity-dependent CREB transcriptional pathway, and suggests a therapeutic 
target for AD.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2418179122
PMCID: PMC11892585
PMID: 40014571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:S.A.L. declares 
that he is the scientific founder and chair of the Scientific Advisory Board 
(SAB) of EuMentis Therapeutics, Inc., a member of the SAB of Point 6 Bio. Ltd., 
and a consultant to Circumvent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. T.N. serves as a consultant 
to Dojindo Molecular Technologies. The other authors declare no competing 
interests.


8. Mol Biotechnol. 2025 Feb 27. doi: 10.1007/s12033-025-01392-x. Online ahead of 
print.

Neuroprotective Effects of Berberine Chloride Against the Aluminium 
Chloride-Induced Alzheimer's Disease in Zebra Fish Larvae.

Uvarajan D(1), Gnanarajan R(2), Karuppusamy PA(2), Ravichandran N(2), 
Govindasamy C(3), Vellingiri B(4), Narayanaswamy A(2), Wang W(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry PSG College of Arts & Science, Coimbatore, Tamil 
Nadu, India.
(2)Disease Proteomics Laboratory, Department of Zoology, Bharathiar University, 
Coimbatore, India.
(3)Department of Community Health Sciences, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
King Saud University, P.O. Box 10219, 11433, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Human Cytogenetics and Stem Cell Laboratory, Department of Zoology, Central 
University of Punjab, Bathinda, India.
(5)The Medical Department of Neurology, Xi'an North Hospital, Xi'an, 710043, 
China. gkxupww@sina.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease distinguished by 
cognitive and memory deficits. A lack of memory, cognition, and other forms of 
cognitive dissonance characterizes AD, which affects approximately 50 million 
people worldwide. This study aimed to identify the neuroprotective effects of 
berberine chloride (BC) against aluminium chloride (AlCl3)-induced AD in 
zebrafish larvae by inhibiting oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. BC 
toxicity was assessed by evaluating survival rates, malformations, and heart 
rates in zebrafish larvae following treatment with varying concentrations of BC. 
This study elucidates the mechanisms of BC through an extensive range of 
biochemical assays, behavioral testing, and molecular docking analysis. The 
developmental toxicity assessment of BC indicated that doses up to 40 μM did not 
cause any developmental abnormalities until 96 h post fertilization. The LC50 
value of BC in zebrafish larvae was found to be 50.16 μM. The biochemical and 
behavioral changes induced by AlCl3 in zebrafish larvae were significantly 
mitigated by BC treatment. Our findings demonstrate that BC can reduce total 
cholesterol and triglyceride levels in AlCl3-induced AD zebrafish larvae. Our 
molecular docking results indicated that BC significantly interacted with the 
ABCA1 protein, suggesting that BC may act as an ABCA1 agonist. Based on our 
results, it can be concluded that BC may serve as an effective therapeutic agent 
for mitigating oxidative stress by altering cholesterol metabolism in 
AlCl3-induced AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12033-025-01392-x
PMID: 40014257

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent 
to Publish: Not applicable.


9. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Mar;33(3):1303-1310. doi:
10.1007/s10787-025-01698-x.  Epub 2025 Feb 27.

Anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects of baicalein: targeting Nrf2, and NFĸB 
in neurodegenerative disease.

Kuwar OK(1), Kalia N(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Ghal Kalan, Moga, Punjab, 142001, India. omkar.official.955@gmail.com.
(2)Neuropharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Ghal Kalan, Moga, Punjab, 142001, India.

Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
and Huntington's disease, are characterized by progressive loss of neurons in 
the brain regions, including the hippocampus, cortex, substantia nigra, and 
striatum. Multiple pathological mechanisms drive this neuronal loss, including 
oxidative stress, chronic inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, protein 
misfolding, and excitotoxicity. Recent evidence suggests that these processes 
are intricately linked to the dysregulation of key signalling pathways, such as 
the IĸB/NFĸB, and KEAP1/Nrf2 pathways, which play central roles in 
neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial functions, respectively. 
At present, no cure exists for neurodegenerative disorders, and available 
medications focus solely on symptomatic management. While these treatments 
provide temporary relief, their long-term use is often associated with adverse 
health effects. In this context, natural Phytoactive constituents like 
Baicalein, a bioactive flavonoid derived from Scutellaria baicalensis, have 
gained attention for their promising therapeutic potential. Baicalein has been 
shown to modulate the IĸB/NFĸB, and KEAP1/Nrf2 pathways, thereby mitigating 
neuroinflammation and oxidative stress while supporting mitochondrial health. It 
exerts anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting NFĸB activation, thereby reducing 
the production of proinflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and 
NLRP3 inflammasome, and enzymes like COX-2, LOX, and iNOS, which are essential 
for innate and adaptive immune responses. Simultaneously, baicalein enhances the 
Nrf2 activation, promoting the expression of antioxidant enzymes like HO-1, 
NQO1, GPx, and SOD, thus countering oxidative stress. These findings highlight 
the potential of baiclalein as a complementary approach for managing 
neurodegenerative diseases, offering a safer and more holistic alternative to 
conventional therapies.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-025-01698-x
PMID: 40014253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declared that they don’t have any financial or personal conflicts about this 
work. Ethical approval: Not required.


10. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 Aug;398(8):10581-10595. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-025-03933-2. Epub 2025 Feb 27.

From computational screening to zebrafish testing: repurposing of doxazosin, 
donepezil, and dolutegravir for neuroprotective potential in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Rathi KM(1), Undale VR(2), Wavhale RD(2), Mohammed FS(3), Karwa PN(2), Patil 
H(2).

Author information:
(1)Dr. D. Y. Patil Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research, Sant 
Tukaram Nagar, Pimpri, Pune, 411018, Maharashtra, India. 
karishma.rathi@dypvp.edu.in.
(2)Dr. D. Y. Patil Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research, Sant 
Tukaram Nagar, Pimpri, Pune, 411018, Maharashtra, India.
(3)Calcutta Institute of Pharmaceutical Technology & AHS, Uluberia, Howrah, 
711316, West Bengal, India.

Amyloid-beta (Aß) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are distinctive features 
of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a progressive disorder that results in considerable 
memory loss and decline in cognitive function. Presently available therapies, 
such as donepezil and other medications that inhibit acetylcholinesterase, 
mainly provide relief from symptoms but do not change the course of the disease. 
This research article intends to investigate the possible reuse of two 
FDA-approved medications, doxazosin and dolutegravir, discovered through 
computerized screening using shape similarity, docking energy, and molecular 
dynamics stability, for the purpose of targeting human acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE) in the development of disease-altering treatments. In order to mimic 
neurotoxicity similar to Alzheimer's disease, zebrafish (Danio rerio) were 
treated with aluminum chloride (AlCl3). Various behavioral assessments, such as 
the open field test, mirror biting test, novel tank test, social preference 
test, and dark-light preference test, were carried out to assess cognitive 
function, movement, and anxiety-related behaviors. The results indicated that 
doxazosin, a drug that blocks alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, successfully 
decreased neuroinflammation and improved cognitive abilities. Additionally, 
dolutegravir, which is mainly used as an antiviral medication, showed notable 
benefits in protecting the nervous system. This study highlights the possibility 
of using doxazosin and dolutegravir as effective alternative treatments for 
Alzheimer's disease. Upcoming preclinical and clinical research is necessary to 
confirm the safety and effectiveness of AD treatment, paving the way for new 
opportunities in therapeutic intervention.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-025-03933-2
PMID: 40014129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: All experiments 
have been completed with the CPCSEA, and experimental ethics 
(198/PO/Re/S/2000/CPCSEA). Every attempt has been made to decrease animal 
struggle and to lessen the range of animals utilized in all experiments. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


11. Anal Chem. 2025 Mar 11;97(9):5038-5048. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.4c05780.
Epub  2025 Feb 27.

Visualization of Oxidative Stress in the Early Stage of Alzheimer's Disease with 
a NIR-IIb Probe.

Fu J(1), Zhu M(2), Zhang L(1), Li C(2), Liang T(2), Li Z(2), Liu Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Molecular Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430072, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory for the Synthesis and Application of Organic Functional 
Molecules (Ministry of Education), Hubei Province Key Laboratory of 
Biotechnology of Chinese Traditional Medicine, College of Health Science and 
Engineering, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, is 
associated with the complete loss of cognition, and its pathogenesis has been 
suggested to be closely linked to oxidative stress in the early stage. However, 
there is currently a lack of effective methods to provide direct evidence for 
dynamic development of the oxidative stress status during AD progression. 
Herein, through manipulating the multiple energy transfer between 4f electronic 
levels of lanthanide ions (Ln3+), we proposed an energy interception strategy to 
construct activatable NIR-IIb nanoprobe for visualizing oxidative stress level. 
By utilizing an organic molecule, A1094 that absorbs light at wavelength 
matching the emission of Nd3+ and Yb3+, NIR-IIb emission from Er3+ can be 
modulated upon the response of A1094 to oxidative species. This nanoprobe can 
not only clearly outline and distinguish oxidative stress regions in AD brains 
with adjacent age but also provide fast feedback on the efficacy of early 
interventional treatment for AD.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.4c05780
PMID: 40013817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Cureus. 2025 Jan 27;17(1):e78082. doi: 10.7759/cureus.78082. eCollection 2025
 Jan.

Atypical Early Onset Alzheimer's Disease in a Young Female: A Case Report.

Namrouti A(1), Desamour P(2), Marquez A(3), Lorenzen C(3), Cervantes O(3), 
Hodges TB(4), Alvarez G(5), Chandra S(5).

Author information:
(1)Medicine, Herbert Wertheim College of Medicine, Florida International 
University, Miami, USA.
(2)Health Sciences, Herbert Wertheim College of Medicine, Florida International 
University, Miami, USA.
(3)Family Medicine, Baptist Health South Florida, Miami, USA.
(4)Radiology, Baptist Health South Florida, Miami, USA.
(5)Internal Medicine, Baptist Hospital of Miami, Miami, USA.

Early-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by the development of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles 
at an earlier age. It affects multiple cognitive domains, including memory, 
executive function, and motor abilities. Here, we present a case of atypical 
early-onset AD. A 33-year-old woman with no significant medical history 
experienced a two-year decline in cognitive function, resulting in job loss and 
incidents such as cooking-related fires. Neurological examination revealed 
impaired attention, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, and a dystaxic gait. Imaging and 
tests showed minor abnormalities, with normal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), 
genetic, autoimmune, and metabolic workups. Brain magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) scans 
indicated cortical atrophy and parietal hypometabolism. The patient was referred 
to a memory center for further evaluation and potential treatment with 
lecanemab. This case highlights the challenges in diagnosing early-onset 
neurodegenerative disorders, which can present atypically and mimic other 
conditions. The extensive diagnostic workup emphasizes the difficulty of 
diagnosing these disorders, particularly in the absence of specific biomarkers. 
Early diagnosis of neurodegenerative disorders in young adults requires 
heightened clinical suspicion and a comprehensive diagnostic workup, including 
advanced brain imaging, such as MRI and PET scans, to ensure timely diagnosis 
and referral to specialized centers.

Copyright © 2025, Namrouti et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.78082
PMCID: PMC11864701
PMID: 40013172

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all 
authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared 
that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted 
work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no 
financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


13. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Feb 12;16:1454735. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2024.1454735.  eCollection 2024.

Study insights in the role of PGC-1α in neurological diseases: mechanisms and 
therapeutic potential.

Tang MB(1), Liu YX(1), Hu ZW(2), Luo HY(2), Zhang S(2), Shi CH(2), Xu 
YM(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.
(3)NHC Key Laboratory of Prevention and Treatment of Cerebrovascular Diseases, 
Zhengzhou, Henan, China.
(4)Henan Key Laboratory of Cerebrovascular Diseases, Zhengzhou University, 
Zhengzhou, Henan, China.

Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α), which is 
highly expressed in the central nervous system, is known to be involved in the 
regulation of mitochondrial biosynthesis, metabolic regulation, 
neuroinflammation, autophagy, and oxidative stress. This knowledge indicates a 
potential role of PGC-1α in a wide range of functions associated with 
neurological diseases. There is emerging evidence indicating a protective role 
of PGC-1α in the pathogenesis of several neurological diseases. As such, a 
deeper and broader understanding of PGC-1α and its role in neurological diseases 
is urgently needed. The present review provides a relatively complete overview 
of the current knowledge on PGC-1α, including its functions in different types 
of neurons, basic structural characteristics, and its interacting transcription 
factors. Furthermore, we present the role of PGC-1α in the pathogenesis of 
various neurological diseases, such as intracerebral hemorrhage, ischemic 
stroke, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, 
Huntington's disease, and other PolyQ diseases. Importantly, we discuss some 
compounds or drug-targeting strategies that have been studied to ameliorate the 
pathology of these neurological diseases and introduce the possible mechanistic 
pathways. Based on the available studies, we propose that targeting PGC-1α could 
serve as a promising novel therapeutic strategy for one or more neurological 
diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Tang, Liu, Hu, Luo, Zhang, Shi and Xu.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1454735
PMCID: PMC11861300
PMID: 40012862

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


14. Front Neuroanat. 2025 Feb 12;19:1504065. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2025.1504065. 
eCollection 2025.

Exploring the microbiota-gut-brain axis: impact on brain structure and function.

Yassin LK(1), Nakhal MM(1), Alderei A(1), Almehairbi A(1), Mydeen AB(1), Akour 
A(2), Hamad MIK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, United Arab 
Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, College of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.

The microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) plays a significant role in the maintenance 
of brain structure and function. The MGBA serves as a conduit between the CNS 
and the ENS, facilitating communication between the emotional and cognitive 
centers of the brain via diverse pathways. In the initial stages of this review, 
we will examine the way how MGBA affects neurogenesis, neuronal dendritic 
morphology, axonal myelination, microglia structure, brain blood barrier (BBB) 
structure and permeability, and synaptic structure. Furthermore, we will review 
the potential mechanistic pathways of neuroplasticity through MGBA influence. 
The short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) play a pivotal role in the MGBA, where they 
can modify the BBB. We will therefore discuss how SCFAs can influence microglia, 
neuronal, and astrocyte function, as well as their role in brain disorders such 
as Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Parkinson's disease (PD). Subsequently, we will 
examine the technical strategies employed to study MGBA interactions, including 
using germ-free (GF) animals, probiotics, fecal microbiota transplantation 
(FMT), and antibiotics-induced dysbiosis. Finally, we will examine how 
particular bacterial strains can affect brain structure and function. By gaining 
a deeper understanding of the MGBA, it may be possible to facilitate research 
into microbial-based pharmacological interventions and therapeutic strategies 
for neurological diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Yassin, Nakhal, Alderei, Almehairbi, Mydeen, Akour and Hamad.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2025.1504065
PMCID: PMC11860919
PMID: 40012737

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


15. Front Cell Neurosci. 2025 Feb 12;19:1528995. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1528995.
 eCollection 2025.

Glymphatic system: a self-purification circulation in brain.

Chen S(1)(2), Wang H(2), Zhang L(2), Xi Y(2), Lu Y(2), Yu K(2), Zhu Y(2), Regina 
I(2), Bi Y(3), Tong F(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Science and Engineering, University of Shanghai for Science 
and Technology, Shanghai, China.
(2)Institute of Wound Prevention and Treatment, School of Fundamental Medicine, 
Shanghai University of Medicine & Health Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Shanghai University of Medicine & Health Sciences 
Affiliated Zhoupu Hospital, Shanghai, China.

The glymphatic system theory introduces a new perspective on fluid flow and 
homeostasis in the brain. Here, cerebrospinal fluid and interstitial fluid 
(CSF-ISF) moves from the perivascular spaces (PVS) of arteries to those of veins 
for drainage. Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) plays a crucial role in driving fluid within 
the PVS. The impairment to AQP4 is closely linked to the dysfunction of the 
glymphatic system. The function of the glymphatic system is less active during 
waking but enhanced during sleep. The efficiency of the glymphatic system 
decreases with aging. Damage to the glymphatic system will give rise to the 
development and progression of many brain diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), and 
vascular dementia (VaD). Here, we reviewed previous research associated with the 
glymphatic system, including its concepts, principles, and influencing factors. 
We hypothesize that AQP4 could be a target for the prevention and treatment of 
certain brain diseases through the regulation on the glymphatic system.

Copyright © 2025 Chen, Wang, Zhang, Xi, Lu, Yu, Zhu, Regina, Bi and Tong.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2025.1528995
PMCID: PMC11861344
PMID: 40012567

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


16. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2024;21(11):804-816. doi: 
10.2174/0115672050374807250224044204.

Use of Virtual Reality to Improve Spatial Orientation in Alzheimer's Disease and 
Mild Cognitive Impairment: A Systematic Review.

Gulin W(1), Oziemblewska M(1), Zajac-Lamparska L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Psychology and Psychology of Human Development, Faculty 
of Psychology, Kazimierz Wielki University, Bydgoszcz, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease is a chronic, neurodegenerative condition that 
leads to a significant cognitive decline. One of the symptoms that greatly 
reduces the quality of daily functioning is the deterioration of spatial 
orientation abilities. A non-pharmacological treatment option for Alzheimer's 
disease, which is also employed to improve the cognitive functioning of 
individuals with mild cognitive impairment, is virtual reality training.
OBJECTIVE: To the best of the authors' knowledge, there is no existing 
systematic review on the use of virtual reality training to enhance spatial 
orientation in individuals with Alzheimer's disease or mild cognitive 
impairment. The review was therefore conducted to fill this gap. The findings of 
this review may support the efficacy of virtual reality in enhancing spatial 
orientation.
METHODS: Five databases were searched. The primary inclusion criteria were study 
participants aged over 60 years with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or mild 
cognitive impairment and the use of virtual reality for improving spatial 
orientation. Six studies meeting these criteria were ultimately included in the 
review.
RESULTS: All included studies demonstrated an improvement in the spatial 
orientation of individuals with Alzheimer's disease or mild cognitive impairment 
following virtual reality training. This indicates the effectiveness of virtual 
reality technology in cognitive rehabilitation.
CONCLUSION: As virtual reality cognitive training has proven effective, its use 
should be more widely adopted. Further research on the application of virtual 
reality for enhancing spatial orientation in individuals with dementia is 
recommended.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050374807250224044204
PMID: 40012393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2025;26(11):1607-1616. doi: 
10.2174/0113892010362795250223160707.

Biochanin-A: A Potential Candidate for the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

Singh NK(1), Bhushan B(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacology, Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, GLA 
University, NH#19 Delhi-Mathura Highway, Chaumuhan, Mathura, 281406, UP, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, is a multifactorial 
neurological condition characterized by progressive loss of memory and learning, 
uncontrollable movement, difficulty processing visual images, and impairment of 
reasoning and/or judgment skills. Although the exact cause of AD is still 
unknown, recent evidence suggests that environmental, lifestyle, and genetic 
factors are common contributors to the disease's progression. Pathophysiological 
features of AD include amyloid beta (Aβ) accumulation, abnormal deposition of 
neuritic plaques and neurofibrile tangles, cholinergic dysfunction, 
neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress burden along with mitochondrial 
dysfunction. There are currently no pharmaceutical methods or medications that 
can stop the progression of a disease. More attention is now being paid to 
natural products, herbal medicines, and different bioactive phytoconstituents, 
particularly flavonoids, as alternative therapies and useful resources for 
finding new drug candidates for the treatment of AD-like symptoms. A dietary 
isoflavone, biochanin-A, which is isolated from the leaves and stems of 
Trifolium pretense L. (family: Leguminosae), possesses remarkable 
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties along with cognitive-enhancing 
effects. Biochanin-A exhibits notable neuroprotective effects by reducing Aβ 
deposition, decreasing apoptosis, and preventing the production of 
pro-inflammatory mediators, including TNF-α, IL- 1β, and NO. Various preclinical 
reports explore the pharmacological role of biochanin-A against 
experimentally-induced AD and highlight that it can alter numerous signaling 
pathways, including Nrf2, NF-κB, JNK, MAPK, and Bcl-2/Bax. The present review 
article summarizes the numerous research studies that have evaluated the role of 
biochanin-A for dementia associated with AD. As part of a comprehensive program, 
biochanin-A has very exceptional potential to prevent and treat AD-related 
cognitive impairment. It is envisaged that these potential chemical moieties can 
be employed in the drug discovery process to identify efficacious and safe 
therapy for the treatments for AD-like manifestation.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113892010362795250223160707
PMID: 40012390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(3):597-610. doi: 10.1177/13872877251319048.
Epub  2025 Feb 26.

Bioactive compounds and dietary patterns in Alzheimer's disease.

Christimann G(1), Rocha G(2), Sattler JAG(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Nutrição, Escola de Ciências da Saúde, Centro Universitário 
Ritter dos Reis, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(2)Faculdade de Medicina, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Psiquiatria e Ciências 
dos Comportamento, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, 
Brazil.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that 
primarily affects the elderly, leading to severe cognitive decline and loss of 
autonomy. The accumulation of amyloid-β peptides and tau proteins in the brain 
is considered the central pathogenic mechanism, which results in neuronal 
dysfunction and cell death. Various metabolic disruptions, such as chronic 
oxidative stress and inflammatory processes, further exacerbate the progression 
of AD. This review, based on literature from PubMed, SciELO, MDPI, and 
ScienceDirect, evaluates the role of bioactive compounds and dietary patterns, 
specifically the Mediterranean and MIND diets, in mitigating the progression of 
AD. These diets, rich in vitamins, flavonoids, carotenoids, and omega-3 fatty 
acids, have shown potential in reducing oxidative damage and inflammation in the 
brain, offering neuroprotective benefits. The findings suggest that bioactive 
compounds such as vitamin E isomers and polyphenols may delay cognitive decline, 
presenting a promising avenue for future dietary interventions aimed at 
optimizing the consumption of these compounds to prevent or slow the onset of 
AD. Further research is needed to determine the optimal doses and combinations 
of these bioactive compounds to maximize their protective effects.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251319048
PMID: 40012188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


19. J Biopharm Stat. 2025 Feb 26:1-16. doi: 10.1080/10543406.2025.2469879. Online
 ahead of print.

Sample size determination for a study with variable follow-up time.

Shan G(1), Zhang Y(1), Lu X(1), Li Y(1), Lu M(2), Li Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, 
USA.
(2)School of Community Health Sciences, University of Nevada, Reno, NV, USA.

For a study to detect the outcome change at the follow-up visit from baseline, 
the pre-test and post-test design is commonly used to assess the 
treatment-control difference. Several existing methods were developed for sample 
size calculation including the subtraction method, analysis of covariance 
(ANCOVA), and linear mixed model. The first two methods can be used when the 
follow-up time is the same as scheduled. Although the linear mixed model can 
analyze the repeated measures by including the actual visit time to account for 
the variability of the follow-up time, it often assumes a constant 
treatment-control difference at any follow-up time which may not be correct in 
practice. We propose to develop a new statistical model to compare the 
treatment-control difference at the planned follow-up time while controlling for 
the follow-up time variation. The spline functions are used to estimate the 
trajectories of the treatment arm and the control arm. We compared the 
performance of these methods with regards to type I error rate, statistical 
power, and sample size under various conditions. These four methods all control 
for the type I error rate. The new method and the ANCOVA method are often more 
powerful than the other two methods, and they have similar statistical power 
when a linear disease progression is satisfied. For a study with non-linear 
disease progression, the new method can be more powerful than the ANCOVA method. 
We used data from a completed Alzheimer's disease trial to illustrate the 
application of the proposed method.

DOI: 10.1080/10543406.2025.2469879
PMCID: PMC12353296
PMID: 40012182


20. BMC Geriatr. 2025 Feb 26;25(1):130. doi: 10.1186/s12877-025-05771-6.

CSEPC: a deep learning framework for classifying small-sample multimodal medical 
image data in Alzheimer's disease.

Liu J(1)(2), Yu X(1)(2), Fukuyama H(2), Murai T(3), Wu J(2), Li Q(4)(5)(6), 
Zhang Z(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science and Technology, Changchun University of Science 
and Technology, Changchun, 130022, China.
(2)Research Center for Medical Artificial Intelligence, Shenzhen Institute of 
Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University, 
Kyoto, 606-8501, Japan.
(4)School of Computer Science and Technology, Changchun University of Science 
and Technology, Changchun, 130022, China. liqi@cust.edu.cn.
(5)Jilin Provincial International Joint Research Center of Brain Informatics and 
Intelligence Science, Changchun, 130022, China. liqi@cust.edu.cn.
(6)Zhongshan Institute of Changchun University of Science and Technology, 
Zhongshan, 528437, China. liqi@cust.edu.cn.
(7)Research Center for Medical Artificial Intelligence, Shenzhen Institute of 
Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China. 
zhangzhilin@siat.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that 
significantly impacts health care worldwide, particularly among the elderly 
population. The accurate classification of AD stages is essential for slowing 
disease progression and guiding effective interventions. However, limited sample 
sizes continue to present a significant challenge in classifying the stages of 
AD progression. Addressing this obstacle is crucial for improving diagnostic 
accuracy and optimizing treatment strategies for those affected by AD.
METHODS: In this study, we proposed cross-scale equilibrium pyramid coupling 
(CSEPC), which is a novel diagnostic algorithm designed for small-sample 
multimodal medical imaging data. CSEPC leverages scale equilibrium theory and 
modal coupling properties to integrate semantic features from different imaging 
modalities and across multiple scales within each modality. The architecture 
first extracts balanced multiscale features from structural MRI (sMRI) data and 
functional MRI (fMRI) data using a cross-scale pyramid module. These features 
are then combined through a contrastive learning-based cosine similarity 
coupling mechanism to capture intermodality associations effectively. This 
approach enhances the representation of both inter- and intramodal features 
while significantly reducing the number of learning parameters, making it highly 
suitable for small sample environments. We validated the effectiveness of the 
CSEPC model through experiments on the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative (ADNI) dataset and demonstrated its superior performance in 
diagnosing and staging AD.
RESULTS: Our experimental results demonstrate that the proposed model matches or 
exceeds the performance of models used in previous studies in AD classification. 
Specifically, the model achieved an accuracy of 85.67% and an area under the 
curve (AUC) of 0.98 in classifying the progression from mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) to AD. To further validate its effectiveness, we used our 
method to diagnose different stages of AD. In both classification tasks, our 
approach delivered superior performance.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, the performance of our model in various tasks has 
demonstrated its significant potential in the field of small-sample multimodal 
medical imaging classification, particularly AD classification. This advancement 
could significantly assist clinicians in effectively managing and intervening in 
the disease progression of patients with early-stage AD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-025-05771-6
PMCID: PMC11863527
PMID: 40011826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was exempt from local institutional review board 
approval because all neuroimaging and clinical data were obtained in 
deidentified format upon request from external study centers, which ensured 
compliance with ethical guidelines and informed consent for all participants. No 
compensation was provided to the participants. Consent for publication: On the 
basis of our observations, the images contained in this article are entirely 
unidentifiable, and there is no detailed individual-specific information 
provided in the manuscript. Given these circumstances, we believe that obtaining 
consent for the publication of these images is not necessary. The final decision 
on whether consent to publish is required will be at the discretion of the 
editor. We have ensured that any publication involving images complies with 
ethical and legal requirements and takes appropriate measures to safeguard 
individual privacy. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


21. Nat Struct Mol Biol. 2025 Jul;32(7):1167-1174. doi:
10.1038/s41594-025-01497-6.  Epub 2025 Feb 26.

Cryo-EM structure of the human THIK-1 K2P K(+) channel reveals a lower Y gate 
regulated by lipids and anesthetics.

Rödström KEJ(#)(1)(2)(3), Eymsh B(#)(4), Proks P(#)(1)(2), Hayre MS(#)(1)(2), 
Cordeiro S(4), Mendez-Otalvaro E(5), Madry C(6), Rowland A(7), Kopec W(5)(8), 
Newstead S(1)(3)(9), Baukrowitz T(4), Schewe M(10), Tucker SJ(11)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Kavli Institute for Nanoscience Discovery, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(2)Clarendon Laboratory, Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(4)Institute of Physiology, Kiel University, Kiel, Germany.
(5)Computational Biomolecular Dynamics Group, Max Planck Institute, Göttingen, 
Germany.
(6)Institute of Neurophysiology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(7)Cerevance Ltd, Cambridge Science Park, Cambridge, UK.
(8)Department of Chemistry, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK.
(9)OXION Initiative in Ion Channels and Disease, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK.
(10)Institute of Physiology, Kiel University, Kiel, Germany. 
m.schewe@physiologie.uni-kiel.de.
(11)Kavli Institute for Nanoscience Discovery, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. 
stephen.tucker@physics.ox.ac.uk.
(12)Clarendon Laboratory, Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK. stephen.tucker@physics.ox.ac.uk.
(13)OXION Initiative in Ion Channels and Disease, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK. stephen.tucker@physics.ox.ac.uk.
(#)Contributed equally

THIK-1 (KCNK13) is a halothane-inhibited and anionic-lipid-activated two-pore 
domain (K2P) K+ channel implicated in microglial activation and 
neuroinflammation, and a current target for the treatment of neurodegenerative 
disorders, for example Alzheimer's disease and amyothropic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS). However, compared to other K2P channels, little is known about the 
structural and functional properties of THIK-1. Here we present a 
3.16-Å-resolution cryo-EM structure of human THIK-1 that reveals several 
distinct features, in particular, a tyrosine in M4 that contributes to a lower 
'Y gate' that opens upon activation by physiologically relevant 
G-protein-coupled receptor and lipid signaling pathways. We demonstrate that 
linoleic acid bound within a modulatory pocket adjacent to the filter influences 
channel activity, and that halothane inhibition involves a binding site within 
the inner cavity, both resulting in conformational changes to the Y gate. 
Finally, the extracellular cap domain contains positively charged residues that 
line the ion exit pathway and contribute to the distinct biophysical properties 
of this channel. Overall, our results provide structural insights into THIK-1 
function and identify distinct regulatory sites that expand its potential as a 
drug target for the modulation of microglial function.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41594-025-01497-6
PMCID: PMC12263422
PMID: 40011745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: A.R. is employed by 
Cerevance. The other authors declare no competing interests.


22. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2025 Jul;46(7):1813-1833. doi:
10.1038/s41401-025-01475-0.  Epub 2025 Feb 26.

Rhynchophylline alleviates cognitive deficits in multiple transgenic mouse 
models of Alzheimer's disease via modulating neuropathology and gut microbiota.

Zhong M(1)(2), Xu QQ(1), Huang MQ(3), Zhan RT(4)(5), Huang XQ(5), Yang W(1), Lin 
ZX(6)(7)(8), Xian YF(9).

Author information:
(1)School of Chinese Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of Tropical Medicine Innovation and 
Transformation of Ministry of Education, International Joint Research Center of 
Human-machine Intelligent Collaborative for Tumor Precision Diagnosis and 
Treatment of Hainan Province, Hainan Provincial Key Laboratory of Research and 
Development on Tropical Herbs, School of Pharmacy, Hainan Medical University, 
Haikou, 571199, China.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Fujian Key Laboratory of Chinese Materia Medica, Fujian 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou, 350122, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Chinese Medicinal Resource from Lingnan (Ministry of 
Education), School of Pharmaceutical Science, Guangzhou University of Chinese 
Medicine, Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, 
Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(6)School of Chinese Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China. linzx@cuhk.edu.hk.
(7)Hong Kong Institute of Integrative Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China. linzx@cuhk.edu.hk.
(8)Li Dak Sum Yip Yio Chin R&D Centre for Chinese Medicine, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China. linzx@cuhk.edu.hk.
(9)School of Chinese Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China. lisaxian@cuhk.edu.hk.

Amyloid-beta (Aβ) aggregation, phosphorylated tau accumulation and 
neuroinflammation are considered as three hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Rhynchophylline (RN), the major alkaloid of a Chinese medicinal plant Uncaria 
rhynchophylla, has been shown to possess potent anti-AD effects. This study 
explored the effects of RN on Aβ pathology, tauopathy, and neuroinflammation 
using three AD mouse models, including TgCRND8, 3×Tg-AD, and 5×FAD, with RN 
treatment lasting for 4, 6, and 6 months, respectively, followed by behavioral 
tests and biological assays. In addition, BV2 cells were employed to further 
evaluate the biological effects of RN. RN treatment improved cognitive functions 
by reducing anxiety-like behaviors, enhancing recognition ability, and 
ameliorating learning impairments. It modulated Aβ processing through reducing 
the Aβ-producing enzyme activities and enhancing degradation enzyme activities, 
thereby diminishing Aβ accumulation. RN also decreased hyperphosphorylated tau 
proteins at Thr181, Thr205, Ser396, and Ser404 sites. Moreover, RN diminished 
neuroinflammation by reducing microglia and astrocyte activation and lowering 
the release of inflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, RN treatment could restore 
gut microbiota dysbiosis in 5×FAD mice. In BV2 cells, knockdown of p53, HDAC2, 
and Galectin-3 markedly enhanced the anti-inflammatory effects of RN. Overall, 
the anti-AD properties of RN were attributed to its regulation of multiple 
biological pathways, including regulation of the p53/PINK1 signaling pathway, 
inhibition of the HDAC2/AMPK signaling pathway, suppression of the 
Galectin-3/C/EBPβ/AEP signaling pathway, and modulation of gut microflora 
dysbiosis. This pioneering study unambiguously revealed the effects of RN on 
cognitive impairments, APP processing, tauopathy, and neuroinflammation in 
different transgenic mouse models with differing AD burdens, highlighting its 
potential as an anti-AD therapeutic agent and enhancing the scientific basis for 
its clinical use in treating AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Shanghai Institute of Materia 
Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1038/s41401-025-01475-0
PMCID: PMC12205089
PMID: 40011632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Ethics approval and consent to participate: All 
experimental procedures were approved by the Animal Experimentation Ethics 
Committee of CUHK (Ref. No.: 21/067/NSF). Consent for publication: All authors 
have consented for publication.


23. Inflammation. 2025 Feb 26. doi: 10.1007/s10753-025-02267-8. Online ahead of 
print.

FDA-Approved Secukinumab Alleviates Glial Activation and Immune Cell 
Infiltration in MPTP-Induced Mouse Model of Parkinson's Disease.

Li Q(#)(1), Han X(#)(1), Dong M(#)(1), Bai L(1), Zhang W(1), Liu W(1), Wang 
F(1), Zhu X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tianjin Neurological Institute, Tianjin Medical 
University General Hospital, Anshan Road 154#, Tianjin, 300052, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Tianjin Neurological Institute, Tianjin Medical 
University General Hospital, Anshan Road 154#, Tianjin, 300052, China. 
zxd3516@tmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Interleukin-17A (IL-17A) has been implicated in the progression of 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's 
disease (PD). However, the effect of the FDA-approved Secukinumab (SEC), an 
IL-17A inhibitor, on PD remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the 
neuroprotective effect of SEC and its potential mechanisms in a 
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced mouse model of PD. 
Male C57BL/6 J mice were mainly assigned to three groups: Sham, MPTP, and 
MPTP + SEC. Motor coordination was assessed using the climbing rod and rotarod 
tests. Dopaminergic neurons (TH +) and glial cells (Iba-1 + , GFAP +) in the 
substantia nigra were evaluated using immunohistochemistry and 
immunofluorescence. Flow cytometry was used to analyze immune cell populations 
in the brain and spleen. Inflammatory cytokines and chemokines were quantified 
using RT-PCR. SEC treatment significantly alleviated the loss of dopaminergic 
neurons and improved motor coordination in MPTP mice. It also reduced the 
infiltration of peripheral immune cells, including CD4 + T cells, NK cells, and 
monocyte-macrophages into the brain. SEC attenuated glial activation (Iba-1 + , 
GFAP +) and decreased the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and 
chemokines (CCL2, CXCL9), which recruit immune cells into the brain. These 
results suggest that Secukinumab protects dopaminergic neurons and attenuates 
neuroinflammation in MPTP-induced model. SEC treatment in PD might be an 
effective therapeutic approach for clinical application in the future. 
HIGHLIGHTS: • Secukinumab reduces the loss of dopaminergic neurons and axons in 
MPTP mice. • Secukinumab inhibits the infiltration of peripheral immune cells 
into the brain in MPTP mice. • Secukinumab inhibits the activation of glial 
cells and reduces neuroinflammation in MPTP mice.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10753-025-02267-8
PMID: 40011292

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


24. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;12(4):100102. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100102.  Epub 2025 Feb 25.

Patient eligibility for amyloid-targeting immunotherapies in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Rosen J(1), Jessen F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital 
Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital 
Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany; Excellence Cluster on Cellular 
Stress Responses in Aging-Associated Diseases (CECAD), University of Cologne, 
Cologne, Germany; German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, 
Germany. Electronic address: frank.jessen@uk-koeln.de.

BACKGROUND: Amyloid beta (Aβ) targeting immunotherapies have evolved as 
promising treatment options for patients with early symptomatic Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Understanding how eligibilty criteria impact on the number of 
patients potentially qualifying for treatment is of high relevance for designing 
diagnostic workflows in clinical practice and for estimating required ressources 
and costs.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed at estimating the number of potentially eligible patients 
for treatment with the Aβ targeting antibodies aducanumab, lecanemab and 
donanemab in a specialized center real-world sample by the applying the phase 3 
clinical trial and the appropriate use recommendations (AUR) inclusion and 
exclusion criteria to the data set. The post-mortem report was used for defining 
amyloid positivity and the presence of AD pathology in this study.
DESIGN: Retrospective, descriptive study.
SETTING: The multicenter National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center-Uniform Data 
Set (NACC-UDS) and Neuropathology Data Set (NACCNP).
PARTICIPANTS: We included all 3,343 participants of the NACC dataset with 
available post-mortem pathology reports.
MEASUREMENTS/RESULTS: 887 participants were potential candidates for anti-Aβ 
immunotherapy as they presented with amnestic mild cognitive impairment or mild 
dementia and the clinical diagnosis of AD (amnestic AD syndrome). Applying the 
criterion of amyloid positivity (post mortem report) and the clinical trial 
inclusion and exclusion criteria to this sample resulted in 83 (9 %), 275 (31 
%), and 172 (19 %) participants eligible for treatment with aducanumab, 
lecanemab, and donanemab, respectively. Applying the criteria of the AUR 
resulted in 242 (27 %) and 266 (30 %) participants eligible for treatment with 
aducanumab or lecanemab, respectively. The eligible participant groups for each 
antibody showed partial, but not full overlap. Co-pathologies were common.
CONCLUSIONS: The number of eligible participants varies between the different 
antibodies and the selected groups only partly overlap, indicating partly 
different groups of eligible participants for each antibody. Since not all 
inclusion and exclusion criteria can be extracted from the NACC-UDS dataset, the 
real number of eligible patients will be smaller.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100102
PMCID: PMC12184045
PMID: 40011174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Frank Jessen reports a relationship 
with Abbvie, AC immune, Eisai, Eli Lilly, GE Healthcare, Grifols, Janssen Cilag, 
Roche that includes: consulting or advisory, funding grants, and speaking and 
lecture fees. Jurij Rosen has received a travel grant from Eisai. If there are 
other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.


25. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;12(4):100094. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100094.  Epub 2025 Feb 25.

Lecanemab for early Alzheimer's disease: Appropriate use recommendations from 
the French federation of memory clinics.

Villain N(1), Planche V(2), Lilamand M(3), Cordonnier C(4), Soto-Martin M(5), 
Mollion H(6), Bombois S(7), Delrieu J(5); French Federation of Memory Clinics 
Work Group on Anti-Amyloid Immunotherapies.

Author information:
(1)Sorbonne Université, INSERM U1127, CNRS 7225, Institut du Cerveau - ICM, 
Paris, France; AP-HP Sorbonne Université, Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, Department 
of Neurology, Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease, Paris, France. 
Electronic address: nicolas.villain@aphp.fr.
(2)Univ. Bordeaux, CNRS, UMR 5293, Institut des Maladies Neurodégénératives, 
F-33000 Bordeaux, France; Centre Mémoire Ressources Recherches, Pôle de 
Neurosciences Cliniques, CHU de Bordeaux, F-33000 Bordeaux, France.
(3)Université Paris Cité, INSERM UMR S-1144, Paris, France; AP-HP. Nord 
Université Paris Cité Department of Geriatrics and Cognitive Neurology Center, 
Lariboisière-Fernand Widal Hospital, Paris, France.
(4)Univ. Lille, Inserm, CHU Lille, U1172 - LilNCog - Lille Neuroscience & 
Cognition, F-59000 Lille, France.
(5)Maintain Aging Research team, CERPOP, INSERM UMR 1295, Universite Paul 
Sabatier, Toulouse, France; Centre Mémoire Ressources Recherches de Toulouse, 
Pôle Gériatrie, Cité de la santé, Toulouse CHU, Toulouse, France.
(6)Centre Mémoire Ressources Recherches de Lyon - Hôpital Neurologique - 
Hospices Civils de Lyon - F 69677 BRON cedex, France.
(7)AP-HP Sorbonne Université, Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, Department of 
Neurology, Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease, Paris, France.

Lecanemab, a monoclonal antibody targeting β-amyloid protofibrils, has shown 
promising results in a Phase III clinical trial for the treatment of early 
stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and has been approved by the European 
Medicines Agency. An Early Market Authorization could be submitted to the French 
regulatory agencies, potentially allowing for the drug's use in clinical 
practice in France in 2025. To guide French clinicians in administering 
lecanemab in a standardized way, the French Federation of Memory Clinics has 
developed appropriate use recommendations for lecanemab that highlight relevant 
questions established to ensure an optimal risk-benefit ratio. The 
recommendations emphasize that lecanemab treatment requires a comprehensive 
individualized evaluation of the risk-benefit ratio, which should occur in 
multidisciplinary meetings. When approved, the guidelines support the use of 
blood biomarkers, proposing specific cutoffs for patients eligible for lecanemab 
under restricted conditions. In addition to the European Medicines Agency 
restrictions in patients on anticoagulants, and APOE4 homozygotes, the 
guidelines recommend against lecanemab treatment for patients with high 
amyloid-related hemorrhagic risk such as probable cerebral amyloid angiopathy 
(Boston criteria v1.5) until further data become available. Additionally, we 
recommend that MRI monitoring be started before the third infusion to account 
for early Amyloid Related Imaging Abnormalities (ARIA) occurring on lecanemab. 
It is recommended to establish a specific clinical care pathway with protocols 
for patients with ARIA, with trained physicians and radiologists with expertise 
in neurological emergency and intensive care. Finally, a discontinuation 
protocol based on dementia severity assessment after 18 months of lecanemab 
treatment is suggested. Access to lecanemab requires a personalized biological 
and genetic diagnosis of AD, which is currently not necessary in most cases. 
Therefore, the healthcare system must rapidly adjust to new diagnostic 
procedures and treatment delivery to ensure equal access for all individuals.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100094
PMCID: PMC12184063
PMID: 40011173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Independent of this work, NV 
received research support from Fondation Bettencourt-Schueller, Fondation 
Servier, Union Nationale pour les Intérêts de la Médecine (UNIM), Fondation 
Claude Pompidou, Fondation Alzheimer and Fondation pour la Recherche sur 
l'Alzheimer; travel grant from the Movement Disorders Society, Merz-Pharma, UCB 
Pharma, and GE Healthcare SAS; is an unpaid local principal investigator or 
sub-investigator in NCT04241068 and NCT05310071 (aducanumab, Biogen), 
NCT05399888 (BIIB080, Biogen), NCT03352557 (gosuranemab, Biogen), NCT05463731 
(remternetug, Eli-Lilly), NCT04592341 (gantenerumab, Roche), NCT03887455 
(lecanemab, Eisai), NCT03828747 and NCT03289143 (semorinemab, Roche), 
NCT04619420 (JNJ-63,733,657, Janssen – Johnson & Johnson), NCT04374136 (AL001, 
Alector), NCT04592874 (AL002, Alector), NCT04867616 (bepranemab, UCB Pharma), 
NCT04777396 and NCT04777409 (semaglutide, Novo Nordisk), NCT05469360 (NIO752, 
Novartis), is an unpaid national coordinator for NCT05564169 (masitinib, 
ABScience), NCT (AD04, ADvantage Therapeutics GmbH); has given unpaid lectures 
in symposia organized by Eisai and the Servier Foundation; has been an unpaid 
expert for Janssen – Johnson & Johnson. During the past 3 years, VP was a local 
unpaid investigator or sub-investigator for clinical trials granted by 
NovoNordisk, Biogen, Janssen and Alector. Outside this work, he received 
consultant fees for MRI studies in animals from Motac Neuroscience Ltd and 
research grants from the Fondation Recherche Alzheimer, Fondation PSP-France and 
from the Agence Nationale de la Recherche. During the past 3 years, ML has the 
following disclosures: 1. Unpaid activities: Investigator or co-investigator for 
studies by Bayer and Bristol-Myers Squibb laboratories; Participation in the 
Eisai Symposium on Behavioural Neurology 2023. 2. Paid activities: Consultant 
for a brochure on Alzheimer's disease Eisai 2024. CC received personal fees from 
Bayer (international steering committee member of RCT dedicated to stroke), 
Biogen (international steering committee member of RCT dedicated to stroke), 
Boehringer-Ingelheim (board), Novartis (board), Amgen (board), Op2lysis (board). 
She is Associate Editor of the Stroke Journal. She is a member of data safety 
monitoring boards (FIVhema, Univ Caen & BLITZ, APHP; unpaid). Her institution 
receives grant fundings from the ANR, PHRC and France 2030. MS has served on 
advisory boards/consultancies Acadia, Otsuka, Avanir, Medesis Pharma, Servier, 
Eisai, Roche, Biogen, Lilly and Ethypharm. During the past 3 years, HM has the 
following disclosures: 1. Unpaid activities: principal investigator or 
co-investigator in therapeutic trials for the following pharmaceutical groups: 
NovoNordisk, Biogen, TauRx Pharmaceuticals, Green Valley Pharmaceuticals, EISAI, 
Roche, Genentech, Lundbeck, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Sanofi, UCB; participation in 
an EISAI board meeting. 2. Paid activities: EISAI meeting, EISAI regional board, 
EISAI symposium. 3. Miscellaneous benefits (transport, meals, etc.): Biogen 
(2022), EISAI (2022, 2023). During the past 3 years, SB was a local unpaid 
investigator or sub-investigator for clinical trials granted by Biogen, Roche, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Johnson & Johnson, Alector, NovoNordisk, UCB-pharma, 
Genentech, AB science, Novartis, and GlaxoSmithKline. She received fees from 
Biogen for a symposium (2021), outside the scope of the submitted work. She 
received non-personal fees from GE-Healthcare (2023) and Eli-Lilly (2024). 
During the past 3 years, JD has received payment/honoraria from Biogen 
(presentation for Biogen in 2021); and has served as consultant for Roche France 
in 2020–2022, Eisai France in 2023–2024 and Lilly France in 2024 with personal 
compensation. He is an investigator in clinical trial sponsored by Regenlife 
(NCT05926011) and served as consultant and/or SAB member for Regenlife but 
received no personal compensation.


26. J Neurosci. 2025 Feb 26;45(9):e0688242024. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0688-24.2024.

A Shift Toward Supercritical Brain Dynamics Predicts Alzheimer's Disease 
Progression.

Javed E(1), Suárez-Méndez I(2)(3), Susi G(2)(3), Román JV(4), Palva JM(5)(6), 
Maestú F(2)(7), Palva S(1)(8).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Center, HiLIFE-Helsinki Institute of Life Science, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki FI-00014, Finland ehtasham.javed@helsinki.fi 
satu.palva@helsinki.fi.
(2)Center for Cognitive and Computational Neuroscience, Complutense University 
of Madrid, Madrid 28015, Spain.
(3)Department of Structure of Matter, Thermal Physics and Electronics, 
Complutense University of Madrid 28040, Spain.
(4)Department of Personality, Evaluation and Psychological Treatment, University 
of Granada 18071, Spain.
(5)Neuroscience Center, HiLIFE-Helsinki Institute of Life Science, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki FI-00014, Finland.
(6)Department of Neuroscience and Biomedical Engineering, Aalto University, 
Espoo 02150, Finland.
(7)Department of Experimental Psychology, Cognitive Processes and Logopedy, 
Complutense University of Madrid, Pozuelo de Alarcón 28223, Spain.
(8)Centre for Cognitive Neuroimaging, School of Psychology and Neuroscience, 
University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8QB.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia with continuum of 
disease progression of increasing severity from subjective cognitive decline 
(SCD) to mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and lastly to AD. The transition from 
MCI to AD has been linked to brain hypersynchronization, but the underlying 
mechanisms leading to this are unknown. Here, we hypothesized that excessive 
excitation in AD disease progression would shift brain dynamics toward 
supercriticality across an extended regime of critical-like dynamics. In this 
framework, healthy brain activity during aging preserves operation at near the 
critical phase transition at balanced excitation-inhibition (E/I). To test this 
hypothesis, we used source-reconstructed resting-state MEG data from a 
cross-sectional cohort (N = 343) of individuals with SCD, MCI, and healthy 
controls (HC) as well as from a longitudinal cohort (N = 45) of MCI patients. We 
then assessed brain criticality by quantifying long-range temporal correlations 
(LRTCs) and functional EI (fE/I) of neuronal oscillations. LRTCs were attenuated 
in SCD in spectrally and anatomically constrained regions while this breakdown 
was progressively more widespread in MC. In parallel, fE/I was increased in the 
MCI but not in the SC cohort. Both observations also predicted the disease 
progression in the longitudinal cohort. Finally, using machine learning trained 
on functional (LRTCs, fE/I) and structural (MTL volumes) features, we show that 
LRTCs and f/EI are the most informative features for accurate classification of 
individuals with SCD while structural changes accurate classify the individuals 
with MCI. These findings establish that a shift toward supercritical brain 
dynamics reflects early AD disease progression.

Copyright © 2024 Javed et al.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0688-24.2024
PMCID: PMC11867000
PMID: 40011070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


27. Brain Res. 2025 May 1;1854:149531. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149531. Epub 
2025 Feb 24.

Comprehensive evaluation of AChE inhibition by Eulophia ochreata extract 
utilizing in silico, ex vivo, and in vivo zebrafish models.

Ghadge SR(1), Shimpi PH(1), Kumbhar VV(2), Khairnar BB(2), Nikam VS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Smt. Kashibai Navale College of Pharmacy, 
Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune 411048 MS, India.
(2)Interdisciplinary School of Science (IDSS), Savitribai Phule Pune University, 
Ganeshkhind, Pune 411007 MS, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Smt. Kashibai Navale College of Pharmacy, 
Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune 411048 MS, India. Electronic address: 
vandananikam@sinhgad.edu.

Dementia commonly accompanies various neurodegenerative conditions, notably 
Alzheimer's disease. The pursuit of natural therapies for these diseases and 
their related symptoms has garnered widespread global interest. The present 
study aimed to explore the potential of Eulophia ochreata L. extract, containing 
phenanthrene active compounds, as an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor. 
Analytical techniques confirmed the presence of phenanthrene compounds in the 
extract, which were then screened for AChE inhibition through molecular docking, 
ex vivo assays, and scopolamine-induced cognitive deficits in zebrafish larvae. 
These phenanthrene compounds, found in the extract of Eulophia ochreata L., 
exhibited a similar affinity for AChE as the standard drug Donepezil, with 
comparable interactions. Ex vivo assays using zebrafish larvae lysate and mouse 
brain homogenate indicated dose-dependent AChE inhibition with increasing 
extract concentrations. Behavioral assessments, including T and Y maze tests, 
revealed significant cognition improvement in extract-treated larvae having 
scopolamine-induced cognitive dysfunction, particularly at 1.3 µg/mL 
concentration. The combined results from molecular docking, ex vivo assays, and 
in vivo cognition deficit models underscored the potential of Eulophia ochreata 
L. extract as an AChE inhibitor, suggesting its phytochemicals could hold 
therapeutic promise, indicating further validation in mammalian models for 
translation into clinical therapies.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149531
PMID: 40010626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


28. Behav Brain Res. 2025 Apr 27;484:115505. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115505. Epub
 2025 Feb 25.

Unlocking the therapeutic promise of miRNAs in promoting amyloid-β clearance for 
Alzheimer's disease.

Kaur V(1), Sunkaria A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Punjab 
143005, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Punjab 
143005, India. Electronic address: aditya.biotech@gndu.ac.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurological disorder that affects cognition and 
behavior, accounting for 60-70 % of dementia cases. Its mechanisms involve 
amyloid aggregates, hyperphosphorylated tau tangles, and loss of neural 
connections. Current treatments have limited efficacy due to a lack of specific 
targets. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as key modulators in AD, 
regulating gene expression through interactions with mRNA. Dysregulation of 
specific miRNAs contributes to disease progression by disrupting clearance 
pathways. Antisense oligonucleotide (ASO)-based therapies show promise for AD 
treatment, particularly when combined with miRNA mimics or antagonists, 
targeting complex regulatory networks. However, miRNAs can interact with each 
other, complicating cellular processes and potentially leading to side effects. 
Our review emphasizes the role of miRNAs in regulating amyloid-beta (Aβ) 
clearance and highlights their potential as therapeutic targets and early 
biomarkers for AD, underscoring the need for further research to enhance their 
efficacy and safety.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115505
PMID: 40010509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests The authors have no relevant 
financial or non-financial interests to disclose.


29. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 May 15;995:177417. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177417.
Epub  2025 Feb 25.

Navigating the complexities of neuronal signaling and targets in neurological 
disorders: From pathology to therapeutics.

Choudhary D(1), Nasiruddin Khan MD(1), Khan Z(1), Mehan S(2), Gupta GD(3), 
Narula AS(4), Samant R(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neuroscience, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, India.
(2)Division of Neuroscience, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of 
Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, India. Electronic address: sidh.mehan@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab, India.
(4)Narula Research, LLC, 107 Boulder Bluff, Chapel Hill, NC, 27516, USA.
(5)Celagenex Research, Mumbai, India.

Neurological disorders arising from structural and functional disruptions in the 
nervous system present major global health challenges. This review examines the 
intricacies of various cellular signaling pathways, including Nrf2/Keap1/HO-1, 
SIRT-1, JAK/STAT3/mTOR, and BACE-1/gamma-secretase/MAPT, which play pivotal 
roles in neuronal health and pathology. The Nrf2-Keap1 pathway, a key 
antioxidant response mechanism, mitigates oxidative stress, while SIRT-1 
contributes to mitochondrial integrity and inflammation control. Dysregulation 
of these pathways has been identified in neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric 
disorders, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, characterized by 
inflammation, protein aggregation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Additionally, 
the JAK/STAT3 signaling pathway emphasizes the connection between cytokine 
responses and neuroinflammation, further compounding disease progression. This 
review explores the crosstalk among these signaling networks, elucidating how 
their disruption leads to neuronal decline. It also addresses the dual roles of 
these pathways, presenting challenges in targeting them for therapeutic 
purposes. Despite the potential benefits of activating neuroprotective pathways, 
excessive stimulation may cause deleterious effects, including tumorigenesis. 
Future research should focus on designing multi-targeted therapies that enhance 
the effectiveness and safety of treatments, considering individual variabilities 
and the obstacles posed by the blood-brain barrier to drug delivery. 
Understanding these complex signaling interactions is crucial for developing 
innovative and effective neuroprotective strategies that could significantly 
improve the management of neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.177417
PMID: 40010482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


30. EBioMedicine. 2025 Mar;113:105612. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105612. Epub
2025  Feb 25.

A pilot study of senolytics to improve cognition and mobility in older adults at 
risk for Alzheimer's disease.

Millar CL(1), Iloputaife I(2), Baldyga K(2), Norling AM(3), Boulougoura A(4), 
Vichos T(4), Tchkonia T(5), Deisinger A(6), Pirtskhalava T(5), Kirkland JL(5), 
Travison TG(3), Lipsitz LA(3).

Author information:
(1)Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, 1200 
Centre St, Boston, MA 02131, USA; Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck Street, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA; Division of Gerontology, Department of Medicine, Beth 
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 330 Brookline Ave, Boston, MA 02215, USA. 
Electronic address: courtneymillar@hsl.harvard.edu.
(2)Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, 1200 
Centre St, Boston, MA 02131, USA.
(3)Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, 1200 
Centre St, Boston, MA 02131, USA; Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck Street, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA; Division of Gerontology, Department of Medicine, Beth 
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 330 Brookline Ave, Boston, MA 02215, USA.
(4)Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Division 
of Rheumatology & Clinical Immunology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 330 
Brookline Ave, Boston, MA 02215, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Center for Advanced Gerotherapeutics, Cedars-Sinai 
Medical Center, 8700 Beverly Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA.
(6)Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
200 First St. SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: This single-arm study evaluates the feasibility, safety, and 
preliminary effects of two senolytic agents, Dasatinib and Quercetin (DQ), in 
older adults at risk of Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: Participants took 100 mg of Dasatinib and 1250 mg of Quercetin for two 
days every two weeks over 12 weeks. Recruitment rate, adverse events, absolute 
changes in functional outcomes, and percent changes in biomarkers were 
calculated. Spearman correlations between functional and biomarker outcomes were 
performed.
FINDINGS: Approximately 10% of telephone-screened individuals completed the 
intervention (n = 12). There were no serious adverse events related to the 
intervention. Mean Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) scores non-significantly 
increased following DQ by 1.0 point (95% CI: -0.7, 2.7), but increased 
significantly by 2.0 points (95% CI: 0.1, 4.0) in those with lowest baseline 
MoCA scores. Mean percent change in tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), a key 
product of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), 
non-significantly decreased following DQ by -3.0% (95% CI: -13.0, 7.1). Changes 
in TNF-α were significantly and inversely correlated with changes in MoCA scores 
(r = -0.65, p = 0.02), such that reductions in TNF- α were correlated with 
increases in MoCA scores.
INTERPRETATION: This study suggests that intermittent DQ treatment is feasible 
and safe; data hint at potential functional benefits in older adults at risk of 
Alzheimer's disease. The observed reduction in TNF-α and its correlation with 
increases in MoCA scores suggests that DQ may improve cognition by modulating 
the SASP. However, there was not an appropriate control group. Data are 
preliminary and must be interpreted cautiously.
FUNDING: National Institute on Ageing grants R21AG073886 and R33AG061456 funded 
this research.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105612
PMCID: PMC11907475
PMID: 40010154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests J.L.K. and T.T. have a 
financial interest related to this research. Patents on senolytic drugs are held 
by Mayo Clinic where they were employed before moving to Cedars-Sinai. T.P was 
also employed by Mayo Clinic. This research has been reviewed by the Mayo Clinic 
Conflict of Interest Review Board and was conducted in compliance with Mayo 
Clinic Conflict of Interest policies. J.L.K, T.T., L.A.L., T.G.T., are members 
of the NIH-funded Translational Geroscience Network. C.L.M has received study 
support from the US Highbush Blueberry Council. All other authors have no 
declarations.


31. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Apr;157:108295. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108295. Epub
2025  Feb 20.

"Triazole-linked thiazolidinedione-Benzothiazole hybrids: Design and biological 
evaluation as AChE inhibitors".

Almatary AM(1), Al-Sanea MM(2), Nasr EE(3), Haikal A(4), Thompson GS(5), Abood 
A(6), Ibrahim MAA(7), Elgazar AA(8), Hamdi A(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Horus 
University-Egypt, New Damietta 34518, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, Jouf University, 
Sakaka, Aljouf 72388, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: mmalsanea@ju.edu.sa.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura 
University, Mansoura 35516, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura, 35516, Egypt.
(5)Wellcome Trust Biological NMR Facility, School of Biosciences, Division of 
Natural Sciences, University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent CT2 7NZ, UK.
(6)Chemistry of Natural and Microbial Products Department, National Research 
Center, Dokki, Cairo, Egypt; School of Bioscience, University of Kent, 
Canterbury, Kent CT2 7NZ, UK.
(7)Computational Chemistry Laboratory, Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, 
Minia University, Minia 61519, Egypt; School of Health Sciences, University of 
KwaZulu-Natal, Westville Campus, Durban 4000, South Africa.
(8)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kafrelsheikh University, 
Kafrelsheikh, Egypt.
(9)Department of Pharmaceutical Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura 
University, Mansoura 35516, Egypt. Electronic address: 
abdelrahmanhamdi2012@yahoo.com.

Novel 2,4-thiazolidinedione-benzothiazole-triazole hybrids (7a-7l) were designed 
and synthesized as therapeutic agents with pleotropic activity for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). These compounds were evaluated for their acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) inhibitory activities. Compound 7k, 
exhibited exceptional AChE inhibition (IC₅₀ = 0.083 μM), while compound 7d, 
showed potent activity (IC₅₀ = 0.119 μM). Kinetic studies revealed that 7k was 
able to exert its action through mixed types of inhibition. Also, the 
anti-inflammatory potential of these lead compounds was assessed in 
LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages. Both compounds demonstrated significant 
dose-dependent inhibition of key inflammatory mediators, including NO, TNF-α, 
IL-6, and IL-1β at non-cytotoxic concentrations (≤10 μM). Notably, compound 7k 
exhibited superior anti-inflammatory activity, achieving 92 % NO inhibition, 
65 % TNF-α reduction, and 61.1 % IL-1β suppression at 10 μM. Moreover, compound 
7k exerted neuroprotective activity against H2O2 induced neurotoxicity in 
SH-Sy5y cell line leading to reduction in LDH, ROS levels and improving cell 
survival. Finally, compound 7k was able to prevent Aβ aggregation at 
IC50 = 5 μM. Molecular docking studies provided structural insights into the 
possible binding interactions of compounds 7d and 7k within the AChE active 
site. The stability and binding energies of compounds 7d and 7k complexed with 
AChE were assessed over 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations and compared with 
Donepezil. The MM/GBSA binding energy calculations indicated that compound 7k 
exhibited a higher affinity for AChE in comparison with compound 7d and 
Donepezil, with ΔGbinding values of -46.1, -42.6, and - 24.0 kcal/mol, 
respectively. These findings suggest that these novel hybrid molecules represent 
promising multi-target therapeutic candidates for AD treatment, effectively 
addressing both cholinergic dysfunction and neuroinflammation.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2025.108295
PMID: 40010133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


32. JMIR Aging. 2025 Feb 26;8:e65292. doi: 10.2196/65292.

Performance of a Digital Cognitive Assessment in Predicting Dementia Stages 
Delineated by the Dementia Severity Rating Scale: Retrospective Study.

Huynh D(1), Sun K(1), Patterson M(1), Hosseini Ghomi R(1)(2)(3), Huang B(1).

Author information:
(1)BrainCheck, Inc, Austin, TX, United States.
(2)Frontier Psychiatry, PLLC, Billings, MT, United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, Institute for Neuroengineering, & eScience 
Institute, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States.

BACKGROUND: Dementia is characterized by impairments in an individual's 
cognitive and functional abilities. Digital cognitive assessments have been 
shown to be effective in detecting mild cognitive impairment and dementia, but 
whether they can stage the disease remains to be studied.
OBJECTIVE: In this study, we examined (1) the correlation between scores 
obtained from BrainCheck standard battery of cognitive assessments (BC-Assess), 
a digital cognitive assessment, and scores obtained from the Dementia Severity 
Rating Scale (DSRS), and (2) the accuracy of using the BC-Assess score to 
predict dementia stage delineated by the DSRS score. We also explored whether 
BC-Assess can be combined with information from the Katz Index of Independence 
in activities of daily living (ADL) to obtain enhanced accuracy.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis was performed on a BrainCheck dataset containing 
1751 patients with dementia with different cognitive and functional assessments 
completed for cognitive care planning, including the DSRS, the ADL, and the 
BC-Assess. The patients were staged according to their DSRS total score 
(DSRS-TS): 982 mild (DSRS-TS 10-18), 656 moderate (DSRS-TS 19-26), and 113 
severe (DSRS-TS 37-54) patients. Pearson correlation was used to assess the 
associations between BC-Assess overall score (BC-OS), ADL total score (ADL-TS), 
and DSRS-TS. Logistic regression was used to evaluate the possibility of using 
patients' BC-OS and ADL-TS to predict their stage.
RESULTS: We found moderate Pearson correlations between DSRS-TS and BC-OS 
(r=-0.53), between DSRS-TS and ADL-TS (r=-0.55), and a weak correlation between 
BC-OS and ADL-TS (r=0.37). Both BC-OS and ADL-TS significantly decreased with 
increasing severity. BC-OS demonstrated to be a good predictor of dementia 
stages, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC-AUC) 
of classification using logistic regression ranging from .733 to .917. When 
BC-Assess was combined with ADL, higher prediction accuracies were achieved, 
with an ROC-AUC ranging from 0.786 to 0.961.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that BC-Assess could serve as an effective 
alternative tool to DSRS for grading dementia severity, particularly in cases 
where DSRS, or other global assessments, may be challenging to obtain due to 
logistical and time constraints.

© Duong Huynh, Kevin Sun, Mary Patterson, Reza Hosseini Ghomi, Bin Huang. 
Originally published in JMIR Aging (https://aging.jmir.org).

DOI: 10.2196/65292
PMCID: PMC11882104
PMID: 40009769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors report 
receiving salaries and stock options from BrainCheck.


33. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14534. doi: 10.1002/alz.14534.

Perspective: Emerging challenges for a future ADNI.

Khachaturian Z(1), Carrillo MC(2), Khachaturian AS(3).

Author information:
(1)Campaign to Prevent Alzheimer Disease, Potomac, Maryland, USA.
(2)Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(3)Brain Watch Coalition, Potomac, Maryland, USA.

In the last two decades, the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) 
has significantly advanced our understanding, technologies, and methods for 
detecting and diagnosing Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. This 
perspective proposes repurposing ADNI to address emerging research and 
healthcare challenges. The focus would shift toward early detection of cognitive 
impairment, discovering new interventions, evaluating non-pharmacological 
treatments, adopting a public health approach, and enrolling a diverse 
international cohort. Key elements of this new model include emphasizing 
vascular-metabolic factors, leveraging biomarkers, and enhancing computational 
capabilities. By reimagining ADNI's mission and framework, the initiative may be 
better poised to tackle the evolving complexities of dementia research and 
improve patient outcomes through a more comprehensive, multidisciplinary 
approach. HIGHLIGHTS: ADNI should be repurposed for early detection and 
intervention in cognitive decline. This would emphasize vascular-metabolic 
factors and biomarkers in dementia research. It advocates for 
non-pharmacological evaluations and a public health approach. It promotes 
international cohort studies and enhanced computational capacity.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14534
PMCID: PMC11864227
PMID: 40009569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


34. Int J Surg. 2025 Apr 1;111(4):2810-2818. doi: 10.1097/JS9.0000000000002261.

The interaction of shock waves with biological tissue - momentum transfer, the 
key for tissue stimulation and fragmentation.

Wess O(1), Mayer J.

Author information:
(1)Department Applied Research, Storz Medical AG, Taegerwilen, Thurgau, 
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Shock waves in medicine have gained enormous importance and have 
spread since 1980, and the first kidney stone was successfully fragmented in a 
patient in Munich. Meanwhile, the spectrum of medical applications of shock 
waves ranges from powerful fragmentation of kidney stones to diverse indications 
such as wound healing, chronic pelvic pain, spasticity, erectile dysfunction, 
and others, to neuro-stimulation in the context of Alzheimer's disease. A 
comprehensive working mechanism for this diverse field of medical indications is 
still missing.
OBJECTIVE: Investigation of the physical basis of the working mechanism of shock 
waves in medical applications.
METHODS: We developed a model based on the mechanical forces generated by the 
momentum transfer at the acoustic interfaces of different layers of biological 
tissue. The generated forces are strong enough to crash brittle material and 
provide an adequate mechanical stimulus to activate mechano-transduction and 
mechano-sensory-transduction with nerve stimulation, thereby affecting the 
neural memory function of the central nervous system.
RESULTS: The key to generating appropriate forces in the millisecond range is 
the mechanism of momentum transfer at the interfaces between tissue layers with 
different acoustic impedances. According to Newton's laws of motion, a change in 
momentum (momentum transfer) generates force F = d P /d t . The inherent shear 
forces can stretch biological membranes to release biomolecules such as vascular 
endothelial growth factor and nitric oxide. A most favorable feature of this 
mechanism is the selective effect on soft tissue interfaces and small tissue 
inhomogeneities to generate small forces in the range of few (≤10) Newton to 
stimulate tissue and nerve cells, while the same shock wave can generate forces 
≥200 Newton and more on hard tissue interfaces such as bones or stones.
CONCLUSION: The mechanism of momentum transfer is the basis for 
mechano-transduction and mechano-sensory transduction. It offers the opportunity 
to stimulate peripheral nerves and modify the motor reflex patterns of 
"pathologic" reflexes by hyper stimulation. The new technique of transcranial 
pulse stimulation may be based on direct stimulation and reactivation of neurons 
in the brain. Momentum transfer is the basic physical mechanism and the 
initiator for successive biological processes in medical shock wave therapy.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/JS9.0000000000002261
PMCID: PMC12175785
PMID: 40009555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interests.


35. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2025 Jun 1;36(6):1208-1226. doi: 10.1681/ASN.0000000675.
Epub  2025 Feb 26.

Uremic Toxins, CKD, and Cognitive Dysfunction.

Andrews TD(1)(2), Day GS(3), Irani SR(3)(4), Kanekiyo T(4), Hickson LJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Mayo Clinic Graduate School Biomedical Sciences, 
Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida.
(2)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Jacksonville, Florida.
(3)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida.

Cognitive impairment involves alterations to one's cognitive status that affects 
everyday life. Individuals with CKD, and particularly kidney failure, experience 
higher rates of cognitive impairment (20%-70%) compared with the general 
population. The highest prevalence is described in kidney failure such that 
dialysis-dependent patients have twice the prevalence of age-matched controls. 
In the past 5 years, the number of investigations examining the "kidney-brain 
axis," mechanisms of CKD-related cognitive impairment, and potential 
therapeutics have exponentially increased. This review article summarizes recent 
literature on direct and indirect effects of CKD-associated cognitive impairment 
with emphasis on uremic toxins; brain injury mechanisms; overlap between 
CKD-associated cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease, and other 
neurodegenerative diseases. Reviewed therapeutic interventions include AST-120 
(indoxyl sulfate absorbent), CH-223191 (aryl hydrocarbon receptor antagonist), 
triarylmethane-34 (Kca3.1-specific inhibitor), anakinra (IL-1R inhibitor), 
marimastat, exercise, supplements, and kidney transplantation. Special focus is 
placed on translational studies examining uremic toxin-associated pathogenic 
processes, including brain oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and blood-brain 
barrier dysfunction through in vitro and in vivo models of CKD-associated brain 
injury. Finally, future research directions are suggested, including targeting 
of cellular senescence abundance with senotherapeutics and capitalizing on 
anti-inflammatory effects of regenerative, cell-based therapeutics ( e.g ., 
mesenchymal stem cells and extracellular vesicles), and use of aged murine 
models. Collectively, CKD-associated cognitive impairment represents a prevalent 
condition for which remaining knowledge gaps exist, and scientific advancements 
are needed to preserve cognitive function and improve the lives of individuals 
with CKD.

Copyright © 2025 by the American Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.0000000675
PMCID: PMC12147973
PMID: 40009460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure forms, as provided by each author, 
are available with the online version of the article at 
http://links.lww.com/JSN/F100.


36. JAMA Netw Open. 2025 Feb 3;8(2):e2459170. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.59170.

Ultrasound Neuromodulation With Transcranial Pulse Stimulation in Alzheimer 
Disease: A Randomized Clinical Trial.

Matt E(1), Mitterwallner M(1), Radjenovic S(1), Grigoryeva D(1), Weber A(1), 
Stögmann E(2), Domitner A(1), Zettl A(1), Osou S(1), Beisteiner R(1).

Author information:
(1)Functional Brain Diagnostics and Therapy, Department of Neurology, Medical 
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Memory Outpatient Clinic, Department of Neurology, Medical University of 
Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

IMPORTANCE: Given the increasing prevalence of dementia and the limited 
treatment options available, ultrasound neuromodulation could serve as a novel 
add-on therapy to standard treatments for Alzheimer disease (AD). As ultrasound 
neuromodulation is still in its early stages, further research is essential to 
fully explore its potential in treating brain disorders.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate clinical and functional imaging effects of transcranial 
pulse stimulation (TPS) in patients with AD.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled, 
crossover clinical trial was conducted at the Medical University of Vienna 
between January 1, 2017, and July 27, 2022. Sixty patients with clinically 
diagnosed AD receiving state-of-the-art treatment were randomly allocated to 
treatment sequence groups verum-sham (first cycle verum, second cycle sham, 
n = 30) and sham-verum (n = 30). Data analysis was performed from July 28, 2022, 
to September 5, 2024.
INTERVENTION: Each participant received 6 verum and 6 sham TPS sessions (6000 
pulses, 0.20 mJ/mm2, 5 Hz) to frontoparietal brain areas.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Neuropsychological tests, including the primary 
outcome Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) 
corrected total score (CTS), were performed at baseline and 1 week, 1 month, and 
3 months following the stimulations in each cycle. Primary and secondary 
outcomes, including functional magnetic resonance imaging and Beck Depression 
Inventory-II, were analyzed by intention-to-treat analysis and, for sensitivity, 
by per protocol analysis.
RESULTS: For the intention-to-treat analysis, 60 patients between ages 51 and 82 
years (mean [SD], 70.65 [8.16] years; 30 females; 30 males) were included. The 
CERAD CTS increased by a mean (SD) of 2.22 (6.87) points in the verum condition 
from 70.93 (14.27) points at baseline to 73.15 (14.90) 3 months after 
stimulation, while the mean (SD) score in the sham condition increased by 1.00 
(6.82) point vs baseline from 71.68 (13.62] at baseline to 72.68 (14.48) 3 
months after stimulation. Primary data analysis of the condition × session 
interaction was not significant (P = .68; partial η2 [ηp2] = 0.01), but its 
interaction with age was P = .003; ηp2 = 0.08, followed by post hoc analyses of 
age subsamples. Although several patients older than 70 years benefited from 
verum TPS, only the younger subgroup (≤70 years) showed significantly higher CTS 
increases for verum in all poststimulation sessions (condition × session: 
P = .005; ηp2 = 0.16). At 3 months after stimulation, for example, a mean (SD) 
3.91 (7.86)-point increase was found for verum TPS in the younger patients, but 
a mean (SD) CTS decrease of 1.83 (5.80) was observed for sham. Memory-associated 
brain activation was significantly higher after verum TPS in the precuneus, 
visual, and frontal areas, while resting state functional connectivity was 
significantly upregulated in the dorsal attention network. In the per protocol 
sample, a significant reduction of the Beck Depression Inventory-II scores 3 
months following verum TPS was found (verum baseline: 7.27 [5.87]; verum 3 
months after stimulation: 5.27 [5.27]; sham baseline: 6.70 [5.65]; sham 3 months 
after stimulation: 6.22 [4.40]; P = .008; ηp2 = 0.23). During both verum and 
sham conditions, the most common observed adverse symptom was depression; no 
major neuropathologic change was detected in the patients by detailed 
neuroradiologic assessments.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this randomized clinical trial of TPS in patients 
with AD, a 2-week verum treatment improved cognitive scores in the younger 
subgroup, ameliorated depressive symptoms, and induced upregulation of 
functional brain activation and connectivity. These findings suggest TPS may be 
a safe and promising add-on therapy for patients with AD receiving 
state-of-the-art treatment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03770182.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2024.59170
PMCID: PMC11866033
PMID: 40009384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Matt 
reported receiving personal fees from the Medical University of Vienna and 
University of Vienna for lectures outside the submitted work. Dr Mitterwallner 
reported receiving personal fees from the Medical University of Vienna for 
lectures outside the submitted work. Dr Grigoryeva reported receiving grants 
from Österreichische Alzheimer Gesellschaft for independent research and 
personal fees from Psimistri GmbH as a contracted advisor outside the submitted 
work. Dr Stögmann reported receiving personal fees from Biogen, Roche, Novo 
Nordisc, Eisai, Novartis, Sanofi, and Lilly. Dr Stögmann received honoraria 
(lectures, advisory boards, and consultations) from Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisc, 
Eisai, Novartis, Sanofi, and Lilly; nonfinancial support from the Austrian 
Alzheimer Association, and the EAN scientific panel dementia. She held 
leadership or a fiduciary role in scientific societies (Austrian Alzheimer 
Association, the EAN scientific panel dementia). Her institution (Medical 
University of Vienna, Austria) received financial support for participation in 
clinical trials from Lundbeck, Biogen, Novo Nordisc, and Roche Diagnostics. Her 
institution (Medical University of Vienna, Austria) received financial support 
by research grants for research in AD: Roche, Eisai, EU Horizon 2020 and the 
Austrian Alzheimer Association outside the submitted work. Dr Osou reported 
receiving personal fees from the Medical University of Vienna outside the 
submitted work. Dr Beisteiner reported receiving grants from the Medical 
University of Vienna and Austrian Science Fund; and financial study support, 
equipment, and research support from Storz Medical AG; grants from the 
Herzfelder Foundation during the conduct of the study; and financial study 
support, equipment, and research support from Storz Medical AG outside the 
submitted work.


37. Mol Imaging Biol. 2025 Apr;27(2):163-172. doi: 10.1007/s11307-025-01991-9.
Epub  2025 Feb 26.

Evaluation of [(18)F]JNJ-CSF1R-1 as a Positron Emission Tomography Ligand 
Targeting Colony-Stimulating Factor 1 Receptor.

Salarian M(1), Liu S(1), Tsai HM(1), Leslie SN(1), Hayes T(1), Lo ST(1)(2), 
Szardenings AK(1), Zhang W(1)(3), Chen G(1)(4), Sandiego C(5), Wells L(6), Nair 
DG(1)(7), Kolb HC(1)(8), Xia CA(9).

Author information:
(1)Johnson & Johnson, 3210 Merryfield Row, San Diego, CA, 92121, USA.
(2)RayzeBio a Bristol Myers Squibb's Company, San Diego, CA, USA.
(3)RemeGen Biosciences, Inc, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)US Rad Bio LLC, San Diego, CA, USA.
(5)Invicro, New Haven, CT, USA.
(6)Invicro, London, UK.
(7)Experimental Gene Therapy and Clinical Chemistry (IFMPEGKC), Institute of 
Molecular Pathobiochemistry, Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule (RWTH) 
University Hospital Aachen, Aachen, Germany.
(8)Enigma Biomedical Group, Knoxville, TN, USA.
(9)Johnson & Johnson, 3210 Merryfield Row, San Diego, CA, 92121, USA. 
cxia1@its.jnj.com.

PURPOSE: Colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) signaling plays a pivotal 
role in neuroinflammation, driving microglia proliferation and activation. CSF1R 
is considered a hallmark of inflammation in many neurodegenerative diseases, 
such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Our study aims to 
evaluate the potential value of 
5-cyano-N-(4-(4-(2-([18F]fluoro)ethyl)piperazin-1-yl)-2-(piperidin-1-yl)phenyl)furan-2-carboxamide 
([18F]JNJ-CSF1R-1) as a positron emission tomography (PET) ligand targeting 
CSF1R in preclinical models of neuroinflammation.
PROCEDURES: A cell-based MSD assay was used to measure the IC50 of 
5-cyano-N-(4-(4-(2-(fluoro)ethyl)piperazin-1-yl)-2-(piperidin-1-yl)phenyl)furan-2-carboxamide 
(JNJ-CSF1R-1). JNJ-CSF1R-1 was radiolabeled with fluorine-18. PET imaging was 
used to evaluate brain uptake, and target engagement of [18F]JNJ-CSF1R-1 in two 
neuroinflammation mouse models, including systemic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and 
AppSAA knock in (KI). CSF1R protein levels in brain tissue were determined by 
western blot and ELISA assays. [18F]JNJ-CSF1R-1 brain uptake was also measured 
in a non-human primate (NHP) PET study.
RESULTS: JNJ-CSF1R-1 is a 12 nM (IC50) inhibitor of CSF1R. ​[18F]JNJ-CSF1R-1 
demonstrated significantly higher brain uptake in both LPS and AD mouse models 
as measured by the area under the time activity curves (AUC) compared to control 
animals. In the AppSAA KI model, CSF1R levels increased near amyloid plaques as 
detected by IHC. ​[18F]JNJ-CSF1R-1 PET imaging signal showed a good correlation 
with CSF1R expression levels measured by western blot and ELISA. In an NHP 
study, ​[18F]JNJ-CSF1R-1 readily entered the brain and demonstrated reversible 
kinetics.
CONCLUSION: ​[18F]JNJ-CSF1R-1 is a potent and promising CSF1R PET tracer with 
translational potential for measuring microglia-based neuroinflammatory 
processes and for tracking the impact of anti-inflammatory therapies.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to World Molecular Imaging 
Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s11307-025-01991-9
PMID: 40009327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Conduct: All procedures 
performed in studies involving human participants were in accordance with the 
ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee and 
with the 1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments or comparable 
ethical standards. All applicable institutional and/or national guidelines for 
the care and use of animals were followed. Conflict of Interest: Mani Salarian, 
Shuanglong Liu, Shannon Leslie, Thomas Hayes, Hsiu-ming Tsai, Anna Katrin 
Szardenings and Chunfang Xia are Johnson & Johnson employees who provided 
financial support for this research project. Christine Sandiego and Lisa Wells 
are employees of Invicro, LLC. Invicro, LLC was contracted by Johnson & Johnson 
to perform the nonhuman primate studies. Su-tang Lo, Wei Zhang, Gang Chen, 
Dileep G. Nair, and Hartmuth C. Kolb were previously employed by Johnson & 
Johnson.


38. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 Feb 26;40(3):132. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01555-4.

Unveiling the mTOR pathway modulation by SGLT2 inhibitors: a novel approach to 
Alzheimer's disease in type 2 diabetes.

Ramakrishan P(1), Rajangam J(2), Mahinoor SS(3), Bisht S(4), Mekala S(5), 
Upadhyay DK(6), Solomon VR(7), Sabarees G(8), Pelluri R(9).

Author information:
(1)Crescent School of Pharmacy, B.S. Abdur Rahman Crescent Institute of Science 
& Technology-BSACIST University, Chennai, 600048, India.
(2)Shri Venkateshwara College of Pharmacy, Ariyur, Pondicherry, 605102, India. 
jayaraam81@gmail.com.
(3)Crescent School of Pharmacy, B.S.Abdur Rahman Crescent Institute of Science & 
Technology-BSACIST University, Chennai, 600048, India.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Shivalik Campus, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, 248197, India.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Biotechnology and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and 
Research, Vadlamudi, Guntur, 522213, India.
(6)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Jaipur National University, Jaipur, 
302017, India.
(7)Medicinal Chemistry Research Laboratory, MNR College of Pharmacy, Sangareddy, 
502294, India.
(8)Shri Venkateshwara College of Pharmacy, Ariyur, Pondicherry, 605102, India.
(9)Department of Pharmacy, KL College of Pharmacy, Koneru Lakshmaiah Education 
Foundation (Deemed to Be University), Vaddeswaram, Guntur, 522302, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurological condition causing cognitive 
deterioration, leading to severe consequences. As the global prevalence of AD 
increases, new treatment approaches are needed to supplement current 
conventional therapies, as traditional treatments are not meeting the increasing 
demand for alternative treatments. It is increasingly evident that treating 
metabolic disorders like diabetes mellitus, obesity, and AD by blocking 
mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) signalling is advantageous. Chronic mTOR 
activation may cause AD's metabolic, lysosomal, and mitochondrial dysfunction, 
tau hyperphosphorylation, amyloid plaque development, and disruption of the 
blood-brain barrier through endothelial cell malfunction. Chronic glucose loss 
through sodium-glucose transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitions can restore mTOR 
cycling, potentially halting or slowing AD pathogenesis. Chronic activation of 
mTOR is implicated in pathophysiological aspects of AD, such as metabolic 
dysfunction, tau hyperphosphorylation, amyloid plaque formation, and disruption 
of the blood-brain barrier. SGLT-2 inhibitors, commonly used in treating Type 2 
Diabetes, have been shown to reduce mTOR activation and restore circadian 
regularity, a new finding in cognitive decline and metabolic disorders. 
Conversely, SGLT2 inhibitors decrease oxidative damage, inflammation, insulin 
signaling pathways, and proliferation of endothelial cells to enhance vascular 
tone, flexibility, and contractility. Along with reducing the formation of 
plaque containing amyloid and improving brain function, neural plasticity, 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, damage to the brain, and cognitive 
decline, they also regulate the mTOR pathway in the brain. Thus, repurposing 
SGLT-2 inhibitors, primarily used in diabetes treatment, presents a promising 
avenue for changing the way that AD is managed. The purpose of this review was 
to focus on the mTOR signalling cascade of SGLT 2 inhibitors to AD management in 
Type 2 Diabetes mellitus.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01555-4
PMID: 40009301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


39. Mol Divers. 2025 Feb 26. doi: 10.1007/s11030-025-11132-7. Online ahead of
print.

Structural insights of AKT and its activation mechanism for drug development.

Kumar BH(1)(2), Kabekkodu SP(3), Pai KSR(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India.
(2)Department of Applied Biology, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology 
(IICT), Hyderabad, 500007, India.
(3)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Manipal School of Life Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India. 
ksr.pai@manipal.edu.

AKT1, a serine/threonine kinase, is pivotal in signaling and regulating cell 
survival, proliferation, and metabolism. This review focuses on the structural 
insights and the essential features required for its active conformation. AKT 
belongs to the AGC kinase group and has three isoforms: AKT1, AKT2, and AKT3. 
AKT has three functional regions: PH domain, kinase domain, and hydrophobic 
motif. AKT1 activation involves intricate conformational changes, including 
transitions in the αC-in, DFG-in, G-loop, activation loop, and PH domain out, 
S-spine and R-spine formation, as well as phosphorylation at Thr 308 and Ser 
473, which enable AKT1 to adopt active conformation. The analysis highlights the 
limitations of the AlphaFold-predicted AKT1 structure, which lacks key elements 
of the active state, including ATP, magnesium ion coordination, 
phosphatidylinositol-(1,3,4,5)-tetraphosphate, substrate peptide, and 
phosphorylation at Thr 308 and Ser 473. This study underscores the necessity of 
these features for stabilizing the kinase domain and facilitating efficient 
substrate phosphorylation. By consolidating structural insights and activation 
mechanisms, this review aims to inform the development of computational models 
and targeted therapeutics for AKT1 activators in diseases such as hepatic 
ischemia-reperfusion injury, cerebral ischemia, acute hepatic failure, 
subarachnoid hemorrhage, and alzheimer's disease.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11030-025-11132-7
PMID: 40009150

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Consent for publication: All the authors have 
provided explicit consent for the publication of the article.


40. Drugs Aging. 2025 Mar;42(3):267-274. doi: 10.1007/s40266-025-01181-w. Epub
2025  Feb 26.

Dementia Medications and Their Association with Pain Medication Use in Medicare 
Beneficiaries with Alzheimer's Disease/Alzheimer's Disease-Related Dementias and 
Chronic Pain.

Milani SA(1), Westra J(2), Kuo YF(3), Downer B(4), Raji MA(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Texas Medical Branch, 301 
University Blvd, Galveston, TX, 77555-0177, USA. samilani@utmb.edu.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, University of Texas Medical Branch, 301 
University Blvd, Galveston, TX, 77555-0177, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics & Data Science, University of Texas Medical 
Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Population Health & Health Disparities, University of Texas 
Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.
(5)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, University 
of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Chronic pain is prevalent among older adults with Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and Alzheimer's disease-related dementias (ADRD). Memantine and 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (ACHEI; donepezil, rivastigmine, and 
galantamine) are approved for the treatment of dementia symptoms and may also 
have analgesic properties. However, findings on the clinical utility of these 
dementia medications for chronic pain treatment are mixed, and little is known 
about differences in the use of pain medication according to whether an older 
adult with AD/ADRD is using dementia medications.
METHODS: We selected a 20% national sample of Medicare enrollees with a 
diagnosis of AD/ADRD and chronic pain in 2020. We calculated the odds of having 
any pain management prescription (opioids, serotonin and norepinephrine 
reuptake, gapapentinoids, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs), having an 
opioid prescription, and having a long-term (≥ 90 days) opioid prescription, by 
dementia medication (none, memantine, ACHEI, or memantine and ACHEI).
RESULTS: Among 103,564 patients, 5.5% received a memantine prescription, 14.4% 
received an ACHEI prescription, and 8.6% received a prescription for both. Over 
70% of all patients had a pain management prescription. The percentage of 
patients who had an opioid prescription ranged from 54.5% for those without a 
dementia medication prescription to 44.0% for those with a prescription for both 
memantine and ACHEI. Similarly, the percentage of patients who had a long-term 
opioid prescription was highest for those without a dementia medication 
prescription (12.2%) and lowest for those with a prescription for both memantine 
and ACHEI (8.8%). Having a prescription for memantine only was associated with 
lower odds of any pain management prescription (odds ratio [OR]: 0.94; 95% 
confidence interval [CI]: 0.88-1.00; p < 0.05). Having a prescription for either 
memantine (OR: 0.79; 95% CI 0.75-0.84), ACHEI (OR: 0.85; 95% CI 0.82-0.89), or 
both (OR: 0.75; 95% CI 0.72-0.79) was associated with lower odds of having an 
opioid prescription (p < 0.05). Lastly, having a prescription for either 
memantine (OR: 0.85; 95% CI 0.77-0.94), ACHEI (OR: 0.92; 95% CI 0.86-0.98), or 
both (OR: 0.83; 95% CI 0.77-0.90) was associated with lower odds of having a 
long-term opioid prescription.
DISCUSSION: Older adults with co-occurring AD/ADRD and chronic pain who were on 
dementia medications had lower odds of being prescribed opioid analgesics. 
Memantine and ACHEIs should be explored as potential opioid-sparing medications 
for older adults with AD/ADRD, given their relatively safe profiles. Future 
studies are needed to examine repurposing dementia medications for pain 
treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-025-01181-w
PMCID: PMC11880075
PMID: 40009144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Funding: This work was supported 
by the National Institute on Aging (NIA)/National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
(grant nos. K01-AG075254, P30-AG024832, P30-AG059301) and the National Institute 
on Drug Abuse (grant no. R01‐DA039192). The content is solely the responsibility 
of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the NIH. 
The funders had no involvement in the study design, analysis, interpretation, 
writing of the manuscript, or decision to submit this article for publication. 
Conflicts of Interest: S.A.M., J.W., Y.F.K., B.D., and M.R. declare that they 
have no conflicts of interest that might be relevant to the contents of this 
manuscript. Ethics Approval: Our use of the 20% National Medicare data was 
approved by the University of Texas Medical Branch Institutional Review Board 
(16-0247). Consent: Not applicable. Data Availability Statement: The data used 
in this study are not publically available and require a data use agreement 
(DUA) from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Code Availability: Not 
applicable. Author Contributions: S.A.M., Y.F.K., and M.R. were involved in the 
conceptualization, design, interpretation of the results, and editing of the 
manuscript. B.D. contributed to the interpretation of the results and editing of 
the manuscript. J.W. conducted data analysis. All authors edited and approved 
the final version of the manuscript.


41. EJNMMI Res. 2025 Feb 26;15(1):16. doi: 10.1186/s13550-025-01208-8.

Hypometabolism and atrophy patterns associated with Niemann-Pick type C.

Silva-Rodríguez J(#)(1)(2), Castro C(#)(3), Cortés J(4), Arias M(5), Pubul V(4), 
Moscoso A(4)(6)(7), Grothe MJ(1)(2)(6), Reynes-Llompart G(8)(9), Rodríguez-Bel 
L(9), Gascon-Bayarri J(10)(11), Sobrido MJ(12)(13), Aguiar P(14)(15)(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Reina Sofia Alzheimer Centre, CIEN Foundation, ISCIII, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Raras (CIBERER), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Nuclear Medicine Department and Molecular Imaging Group, University Hospital 
of Santiago de Compostela, IDIS, Travesía da Choupana s/n, Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain.
(5)Neurology Department, University Hospital of Santiago de Compostela, Galicia, 
Spain.
(6)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Physiology and 
Neuroscience, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(8)Department of Medical Physics, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge-ICO 
L'Hospitalet (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Unidad PET IDI, Servicio de Medicina Nuclear, Hospital Universitari de 
Bellvitge, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Neurology Department, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge, L'Hospitalet de 
Llobregat, Catalonia, Spain. jordigneuro@bellvitgehospital.cat.
(11)Carrer de la Feixa Llarga, s/n, Bellvitge 08907 L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, 
Barcelona, 08907, Spain. jordigneuro@bellvitgehospital.cat.
(12)Neurogenetics Research Group, Institute of Biomedical Research (INIBIC), 
University Hospital of A Coruña, Galicia, Spain. ssobrido@gmail.com.
(13)Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de A Coruña, Xubias de Arriba, 84, A 
Coruña, 15006, Spain. ssobrido@gmail.com.
(14)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. 
pablo.aguiar@usc.es.
(15)Nuclear Medicine Department and Molecular Imaging Group, University Hospital 
of Santiago de Compostela, IDIS, Travesía da Choupana s/n, Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain. pablo.aguiar@usc.es.
(16)Molecular Imaging Group, Center for Research in Molecular Medicine and 
Chronic Diseases (CIMUS), University of Santiago de Compostela (USC), Campus 
Vida, Santiago de Compostela, Galicia, Spain. pablo.aguiar@usc.es.
(17)Nuclear Medicine Department, Choupana s/n, Santiago de Compostela, 15706, 
Spain. pablo.aguiar@usc.es.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Niemann-Pick disease type C (NP-C) is a rare genetic lysosomal lipid 
storage disorder characterized by progressive neurological impairment. Early 
diagnosis is critical for initiating treatment with miglustat, which can 
decelerate disease progression. In this study, we evaluated a cohort of 22 NP-C 
patients who underwent MRI, [18F]FDG PET, and clinical assessment at baseline. 
We performed a cross-sectional and longitudinal imaging study evaluating the 
role of [18F]FDG PET as an adjunct diagnostic tool for NP-C alongside MRI, the 
current neuroimaging standard.
RESULTS: Group-level MRI analysis identified significant cerebellar and thalamic 
atrophy (d = 1.56, p < 0.0001 and d = 1.09, p < 0.001, respectively), with less 
pronounced involvement of the frontal lobe and hippocampus, which aligned with 
existing neuropathological understanding and guidelines. Conversely, [18F]FDG 
PET imaging revealed extensive hypometabolism in the cerebellum, thalamus, and 
cingulate cortex (d = 1.42, p < 0.0001), and moderate hypometabolism in broad 
frontotemporal areas. [18F]FDG PET provided higher effect sizes across all brain 
regions, including regions without apparent atrophy, which suggests that it may 
be more sensitive than MRI for detecting NP-C neurodegenerative changes. 
Single-subject visual assessment of individual PET images further validated the 
clinical utility of [18F]FDG PET, with significant hypometabolism observed in 
the cerebellum, thalamus and anterior and posterior cingulate reported by 
physicians in 17/22 patients. Both hypometabolism and atrophy in the cerebellum 
were associated with ataxia, (more strongly indicated by [18F]FDG PET, 
p < 0.0001 vs. MRI, p = 0.07). Medial temporal lobe atrophy was associated with 
cognitive impairment (p < 0.05), and frontal hypometabolism was slightly related 
to behavioural impairment (p < 0.07). Longitudinal [18F]FDG PET analysis 
revealed progressive subcortical, cortical and cerebellar hypometabolism, which 
was most pronounced in the cerebellum (-12% per year, p < 0.001). Patients 
treated with miglustat showed a trend towards attenuated cerebellar 
hypometabolism progression compared to untreated patients (p = 0.10).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings delineate a discernible hypometabolism pattern 
specific to NP-C that distinguishes it from other neurodegenerative conditions, 
thus suggesting that [18F]FDG PET might be a promising tool for NP-C diagnosis 
and to study disease progression.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: XUNTA 2015/140. Registered 21 April 2015.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13550-025-01208-8
PMCID: PMC11865420
PMID: 40009086

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Ethics Committee Xunta de Galicia 
(reference XUNTA 2015/140), registered 21 April 2015 and complied with the 
declaration of Helsinki. Informed consent was obtained from all individual 
participants included in the study. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: This study was funded by Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd, 
makers of Zavesca (miglustat). JSR and PA are consultants for Qubiotech Health 
Intelligence SL. No other potential conflicts of interest relevant to this 
article exist.


42. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e70028. doi: 10.1002/alz.70028.

Eating and swallowing care disparities in persons with dementia: A conceptual 
framework.

Loy RD(1)(2), Rogus-Pulia N(1)(2)(3), Ketchum F(2)(4), Troche M(5), Rameau A(6), 
Jones HN(7), Riquelme L(8)(9)(10), Gilmore-Bykovskyi A(11), Shah MN(11), Kind 
A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Center for Health Disparities Research, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, William S. Middleton 
Memorial Veterans Hospital, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(5)Laboratory for the Study of Upper Airway Dysfunction, Teachers College, 
Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(6)Sean Parker Institute for the Voice, Department of Otolaryngology - Head and 
Neck Surgery, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York, USA.
(7)Department of Head and Neck Surgery & Communication Sciences, Duke University 
School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(8)Department of Orthopedics & Rehabilitation, Maimonides Medical Center, 
Brooklyn, New York, USA.
(9)Department of Neurosciences & Learning, Universidad Catolica del Uruguay, 
Montevideo, Uruguay.
(10)Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(11)BerbeeWalsh Department of Emergency Medicine, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Eating and swallowing difficulties are prevalent and distressing 
among persons living with dementia (PLWD). These challenges may be especially 
burdensome for PLWD in lower-resourced settings, where environmental factors 
such as social support, health-care infrastructure, and food access are critical 
for meeting quality standards of eating and swallowing care. However, clinical 
practices and research methods have not sufficiently focused on the lived 
environment to promote high-quality, socially and culturally aligned management 
approaches.
METHODS: To address this gap, we developed a conceptual framework informed by 
the literature, grounded in ecological systems and fundamental cause theories, 
and refined through iterative discussion.
RESULTS: Our framework highlights individual-, system-, and community-level 
factors and resources influencing person-centered eating and swallowing care for 
PLWD. It identifies areas at risk for inequitable care along the swallowing 
management continuum.
DISCUSSION: We propose future research areas to help health-care providers 
reconcile the demands of eating and swallowing care with the lived realities of 
PLWD.
HIGHLIGHTS: There are eating/swallowing care disparities among persons living 
with dementia. We introduce a conceptual framework applying social and 
structural determinants of health to eating/swallowing care. We also recommend 
areas to address disparities and improve eating/swallowing care.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70028
PMCID: PMC11863356
PMID: 40008923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Rogus‐Pulia is a VA employee and this work 
was partially supported by the William S. Middleton Veteran Affairs Hospital, 
Madison, WI, USA (X placeholders Manuscript 05‐2025). The content and views 
expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily 
reflect the position or official policies of the United States Government or the 
US Department of Veterans Affairs. Dr. Troche receives royalties from MedBridge, 
Inc. Dr. Rameau owns equity in Perceptron Health Inc. She is also a medical 
advisor for Sound Health Inc. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


43. Int J Environ Health Res. 2025 Feb 26:1-17. doi:
10.1080/09603123.2025.2461098.  Online ahead of print.

Characterization of the phenolic profile, antioxidant and neuroprotective 
activity of leaf hydroalcoholic extracts of Euphorbia bupleuroides subsp. 
luteola (Kralik) maire growing wild in Algeria.

Habibatni S(1), Maiuolo J(2), Davì F(3)(4), Samir Z(5), Lyas B(1), Cacciola 
F(6), Laganà Vinci R(7), Mondello L(7)(8), Taviano MF(3), Miceli N(3).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology, Water, Environment and Health Laboratory, Faculty of Nature 
and Life Sciences, Abbes Laghrour University of Khenchela, Khenchela, Algeria.
(2)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biology, IRC-FSH Center, Department of Health 
Sciences, University "Magna Græcia" of Catanzaro, Germaneto, Catanzaro, Italy.
(3)Department of Chemical, Biological, Pharmaceutical and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(4)Foundation "Prof. Antonio Imbesi", University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(5)Laboratory of Genetic, Biotechnology and Valorization of Bio-Resources 
University of Biskra, Biskra, Algeria.
(6)Department of Biomedical, Dental, Morphological and Functional Imaging 
Sciences, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(7)Messina Institute of Technology (MeIT), c/o Department of Chemical, 
Biological, Pharmaceutical and Environmental Sciences, Former Veterinary School, 
University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(8)Chromaleont s.r.l. c/o Messina Institute of Technology c/o Department of 
Chemical, Biological, Pharmaceutical and Environmental Sciences, Former 
Veterinary School, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.

The objective of this research was to investigate the phenolic profile and some 
biological properties of the leaves of Euphorbia bupleuroides subsp. luteola 
grown wild in Algeria, still unexplored. The leaves were subjected to extraction 
with 80% MeOH using simple maceration (SM) and ultrasound-assisted maceration 
(UM) to establish the most efficient conditions for the recovery of phenolic 
compounds. The study of antioxidant potential suggested that SM and UM extracts 
displayed a superimposable activity both in the DPPH test and in the reducing 
power assay. On the other hand, in the Fe2+ chelating activity assay, SM was 
more active than UM. SM extract prevented damage induced by β-amyloid protein 
(Aβ) being more effective against ROS generated after treatment with Aβ. In 
addition, SM exhibited later protection against malondialdehyde. In conclusion, 
it is possible to state that simple maceration represents an effective technique 
for the recovery of compounds with antioxidant and neuroprotective properties 
from E. bupleuroides subsp. luteola leaves.

DOI: 10.1080/09603123.2025.2461098
PMID: 40008891


44. mSphere. 2025 Mar 25;10(3):e0090724. doi: 10.1128/msphere.00907-24. Epub 2025
 Feb 26.

Antibodies with specificity to glycan motifs that decorate OMV cargo proteins.

Kim HY(1)(2), Rothenberger CM(1)(3), Davey ME(1), Yu M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, ADA Forsyth Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(2)Department of Oral Microbiology and Immunology, School of Dentistry, Dental 
Research Institute, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Oral Microbiology, University of Florida College of Dentistry, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.

Porphyromonas gingivalis is a major etiological agent of periodontal disease, 
and infections with this bacterium are associated with systemic pathologies, 
including atherosclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and Alzheimer's disease. P. 
gingivalis has a variety of immune evasion mechanisms and exhibits highly 
variable cell surface characteristics that are strain dependent, complicating 
the development of effective vaccines and therapeutics. Here, we show that a 
subset of immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies in antiserum raised against P. 
gingivalis strain W83 selectively recognize the outer membrane vesicles (OMVs). 
Pre-adsorption with a mutant strain lacking an OMV-specific lipoprotein (PG1881) 
that has been shown to be glycosylated significantly enhanced IgM specificity 
toward PG1881 and the OMVs. In addition, the IgM reactivity against the OMVs 
derived from a mutant lacking enzymes required for O-glycosylation was markedly 
reduced, indicating that the IgM targets the glycan motifs on proteins carried 
on OMVs. Importantly, the IgM exhibited specific recognition of OMVs from both 
P. gingivalis and Porphyromonas endodontalis, while showing low reactivity 
toward other genera belonging to the phylum Bacteroidetes. This study revealed a 
potential host evasion strategy and highlights the potential for utilizing 
O-glycans in vaccine development and OMV-targeted antibodies in therapeutic 
interventions to combat P. gingivalis infections.
IMPORTANCE: O-glycosylation of cell surface proteins by bacteria is known to 
play a role in various functions including colonization and immune evasion. This 
study highlights the identification of IgM antibodies that specifically 
recognize O-glycosylated proteins that are selectively carried on outer membrane 
vesicles (OMVs). The findings suggest a potential host evasion mechanism and 
open new avenues for using OMVs in vaccine development and targeting O-glycans 
with antibodies as a therapeutic strategy against the subgingival pathobiont P. 
gingivalis.

DOI: 10.1128/msphere.00907-24
PMCID: PMC11934327
PMID: 40008882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


45. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14537. doi: 10.1002/alz.14537.

Plasma p-tau217 identifies cognitively normal older adults who will develop 
cognitive impairment in a 10-year window.

Yakoub Y(1), Gonzalez-Ortiz F(2), Ashton NJ(2)(3)(4)(5), Déry C(1), 
Strikwerda-Brown C(1)(6), St-Onge F(1), Ourry V(1), Schöll M(2)(3)(7), Geddes 
MR(8)(9)(10), Ducharme S(1)(8), Montembeault M(1)(11), Rosa-Neto P(8)(10), Soucy 
JP(8), Breitner JCS(1)(11), Zetterberg H(2)(7)(12)(13)(14)(15), Blennow 
K(2)(12), Poirier J(1)(11), Villeneuve S(1)(8)(11); PREVENT−AD Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Douglas Mental Health University Institute, Centre for Studies on the 
Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease (StoP-AD), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(3)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, 
Norway.
(4)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, 
Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute, London, UK.
(5)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(6)School of Psychological Sciences, The University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(7)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(8)Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(9)McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(10)McGill University Research Centre for Studies in Aging, McGill University, 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(12)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(13)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(14)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(15)UW Department of Medicine, School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.

INTRODUCTION: We assessed the prognostic accuracy of plasma p-tau217 in 
predicting the progression to mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in cognitively 
unimpaired (CU) individuals over a mean follow-up of 5.65 years after plasma 
collection (range 1.01-10.47).
METHODS: We included 215 participants from the PREVENT-AD cohort with plasma 
Aβ42/40 and p-tau217, 159 with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Aβ42/40 and p-tau217, 
and 155 with 18F-NAV4694 and 18F-flortaucipir PET scans. MCI progression was 
determined by multidisciplinary consensus among memory experts blind to 
biomarker and genetic information.
RESULTS: Cox proportional hazard models indicated a greater progression rate in 
A+T+plasma and A-T+plasma compared to A-T-plasma individuals (HR = 7.81 [95% 
CI = 3.92 to 15.59] and HR = 4.25 [1.60-11.31] respectively). Similar results 
were found with CSF (HR = 3.63 [1.72-7.70]) and PET (HR = 9.30 [3.67-23.55]).
DISCUSSION: Plasma p-tau217 is a prognostic marker for identifying individuals 
who will develop cognitive impairment within ten years.
HIGHLIGHTS: Elevated plasma p-tau217 levels in CU individuals indicate future 
clinical progression. Adding plasma Aβ42/40 status to p-tau markers did not 
improve the prediction to MCI. All individuals with abnormal tau PET measured in 
a temporal meta-ROI progressed to MCI.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14537
PMCID: PMC11863240
PMID: 40008832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche; and is a co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
M.S. has served on advisory boards for Roche, Novo Nordisk, and Servier; 
received speaker honoraria from Bioarctic, Eisai, Genentech, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche; and receives research support (to the institution) from Alzpath, 
Bioarctic, Novo Nordisk, and Roche (outside scope of submitted work). He is a 
co‐founder of Centile Bioscience Ltd. No other disclosures were reported. Author 
disclosures are available in the supporting information.


46. Brain Commun. 2025 Jan 20;7(1):fcaf018. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf018. 
eCollection 2025.

Amyloid-β deposition predicts oscillatory slowing of magnetoencephalography 
signals and a reduction of functional connectivity over time in cognitively 
unimpaired adults.

Scheijbeler EP(1)(2)(3), de Haan W(1)(2), Coomans EM(4)(5), den Braber 
A(1)(2)(4)(5)(6), Tomassen J(1)(2), Ten Kate M(1)(2)(4)(5), Konijnenberg 
E(1)(2), Collij LE(4)(5)(7), van de Giessen E(4)(5), Barkhof F(4)(5)(8), Visser 
PJ(1)(2)(9), Stam CJ(3), Gouw AA(3).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology & MEG Center, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Brain Imaging, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Biological Psychology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 1081 HV 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Faculty 
of Medicine, Lund University, 202 13 Malmö, Sweden.
(8)Queen Square Institute of Neurology and Centre for Medical Image Computing, 
University College London, WC1N 3BG London, UK.
(9)Alzheimer Center Limburg, School for Mental Health and Neuroscience, 
Maastricht University, 6229 ET Maastricht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf069.

With the ongoing developments in the field of anti-amyloid therapy for 
Alzheimer's disease, it is crucial to better understand the longitudinal 
associations between amyloid-β deposition and altered network activity in the 
living human brain. We included 110 cognitively unimpaired individuals (67.9 ± 
5.7 years), who underwent [18F]flutemetamol (amyloid-β)-PET imaging and 
resting-state magnetoencephalography (MEG) recording at baseline and 4-year 
follow-up. We tested associations between baseline amyloid-β deposition and MEG 
measures (oscillatory power and functional connectivity). Next, we examined the 
relationship between baseline amyloid-β deposition and longitudinal MEG 
measures, as well as between baseline MEG measures and longitudinal amyloid-β 
deposition. Finally, we assessed associations between longitudinal changes in 
both amyloid-β deposition and MEG measures. Analyses were performed using linear 
mixed models corrected for age, sex and family. At baseline, amyloid-β 
deposition in orbitofrontal-posterior cingulate regions (i.e. early Alzheimer's 
disease regions) was associated with higher theta (4-8 Hz) power (β = 0.17, P < 
0.01) in- and lower functional connectivity [inverted Joint Permutation Entropy 
(JPEinv) theta, β = -0.24, P < 0.001] of these regions, lower whole-brain beta 
(13-30 Hz) power (β = -0.13, P < 0.05) and lower whole-brain functional 
connectivity (JPEinv theta, β = -0.18, P < 0.001). Whole-brain amyloid-β 
deposition was associated with higher whole-brain theta power (β = 0.17, P < 
0.05), lower whole-brain beta power (β = -0.13, P < 0.05) and lower whole-brain 
functional connectivity (JPEinv theta, β = -0.21, P < 0.001). Baseline amyloid-β 
deposition in early Alzheimer's disease regions also predicted future 
oscillatory slowing, reflected by increased theta power over time in early 
Alzheimer's disease regions and across the whole brain (β = 0.11, β = 0.08, P < 
0.001), as well as decreased whole-brain beta power over time (β = -0.04, P < 
0.05). Baseline amyloid-β deposition in early Alzheimer's disease regions also 
predicted a reduction in functional connectivity between these regions and the 
rest of the brain over time (JPEinv theta, β = -0.07, P < 0.05). Baseline 
whole-brain amyloid-β deposition was associated with increased whole-brain theta 
power over time (β = 0.08, P < 0.01). Baseline MEG measures were not associated 
with longitudinal amyloid-β deposition. Longitudinal changes in amyloid-β 
deposition in early Alzheimer's disease regions were associated with 
longitudinal changes in functional connectivity of early Alzheimer's disease 
regions (JPEinv theta, β = -0.19, P < 0.05) and the whole brain [corrected 
amplitude envelope correlations alpha (8-13 Hz), β = -0.22, P < 0.05]. Finally, 
longitudinal changes in whole-brain amyloid-β deposition were associated with 
longitudinal changes in whole-brain relative theta power (β = 0.21, P < 0.05). 
Disruptions of oscillatory power and functional connectivity appear to represent 
early functional consequences of emerging amyloid-β deposition in cognitively 
unimpaired individuals. These findings suggest a role for neurophysiology in 
monitoring disease progression and potential treatment effects in pre-clinical 
Alzheimer's disease.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf018
PMCID: PMC11851009
PMID: 40008329

Conflict of interest statement: E.P.S. is part of the EEGlab research team at 
Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc. W.d.H. and A.A.G. are founders of the EEGlab at 
Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc, The Netherlands. The EEGlab performs central EEG 
analysis for clinical trials funded by Vivoryon, EIP-Pharma, Fujifilm Toyoma, 
Immunobrain and Treeway. This funding does not involve personal support. L.E.C. 
has received research support from GE Healthcare and Springer Healthcare (funded 
by Eli Lilly), both paid to institution. L.E.C.’s salary is supported by the 
MSCA post-doctoral fellowship research grant (#101108819) and the Alzheimer 
Association Research Fellowship (AARF) grant (#23AARF-1029663). F.B. is a 
steering committee or Data Safety Monitoring Board member for Biogen, Merck, 
Eisai and Prothena; advisory board member for Combinostics and Scottish Brain 
Sciences; consultant for Roche, Celltrion, Rewind Therapeutics, Merck and Bracco 
and co-founder and shareholder of Queen Square Analytics Ltd. He has research 
agreements with ADDI, Merck, Biogen, GE Healthcare and Roche. P.J.V. received 
funding from the European Commission, IMI 2 Joint Undertaking (JU), AMYPAD, 
grant no. 115952; European Commission, IMI 2 JU, RADAR-AD, grant no. 806999 and 
European Commission, IMI 2 JU, EPND, grant no. 101034344. The IMI JU receives 
support from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme 
and EFPIA. P.J.V. also received funding from Zon-MW, Redefining Alzheimer’s 
disease, grant no. 733050824736 and Biogen (Amyloid biomarker study group). 
Grants were paid to the university. The remaining authors report no competing 
interests.


47. Brain Spine. 2025 Jan 31;5:104195. doi: 10.1016/j.bas.2025.104195.
eCollection  2025.

Blood biomarkers to identify patients with different intracranial lesion 
combinations after traumatic brain injury.

Koivikko P(1)(2), Katila AJ(1)(2), Takala RS(1)(2), Hossain I(3)(4)(5), Luoto 
TM(6), Raj R(7), Koivisto M(8), Tenovuo O(3)(9), Blennow K(10)(11)(12)(13), 
Hutchinson P(5), Maanpää HR(4)(9), Mohammadian M(3)(9), Newcombe VF(14), Sanchez 
JC(15), Tallus J(9)(16), van Gils M(17), Zetterberg H(10)(11)(18)(19)(20)(21), 
Posti JP(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Perioperative Services, Intensive Care Medicine, and Pain Management, Turku 
University Hospital and University of Turku, Kiinamyllynkatu 4-8, Rakennus 11 A 
5, FI20520, Turku, Finland.
(2)Anaesthesiology, Intensive Care, Emergency Care and Pain Medicine, University 
of Turku, Kiinamyllynkatu 4-8, Rakennus 11 A 5, FI20520, Turku, Finland.
(3)Turku Brain Injury Center, Turku University Hospital, Hämeentie 11, FI20521, 
Turku, Finland.
(4)Neurocenter, Department of Neurosurgery, Turku University Hospital, Hämeentie 
11, FI20521, Turku, Finland.
(5)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Neurosurgery Unit, University of 
Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills Road, CB2 0QQ, Cambridge, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Tampere University Hospital and Tampere 
University, PL 2000, FI33521, Tampere, Finland.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Helsinki University Hospital and University of 
Helsinki, Haartmaninkatu 4, PL 320, FI00029, HUS, Helsinki, Finland.
(8)Department of Biostatistics, University of Turku and Turku University 
Hospital, Medisiina A, FI20014, Turku, Finland.
(9)Neurocenter, University of Turku, Hämeentie 11, FI20521, Turku, Finland.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, S-431 80, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(11)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, S-431 
80, Mölndal, Sweden.
(12)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
47 Boulevard de l'Hôpital, CS 21 414-75646, Paris Cedex 13, France.
(13)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, 230026, China.
(14)Division of Anaesthesia, Department of Medicine, University of Cambridge, 
Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills Road, CB2 0QQ, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(15)Department of Specialities of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Geneva, 1 Michel Servet, 1211, Geneva, Switzerland.
(16)Department of Radiology, Turku University Hospital, Hämeentie 11, FI20521, 
Turku, Finland.
(17)Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, Tampere University, Kalevantie 4, 
FI33100, Tampere, Finland.
(18)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, WC1E 6BT, United Kingdom.
(19)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, WC1E 6BT, United Kingdom.
(20)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Units 
1501-1502, 1512-1518, 15/F Building 17W, 17 Science Park W Ave, Science Park, 
Hong Kong, 0000, China.
(21)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 600 
Highland Avenue, MC 2420, Madison, WI, 53792-2420, USA.

INTRODUCTION: There is a lack of studies examining the most promising blood 
biomarkers for traumatic brain injury (TBI) in relation to gross pathology 
types.
RESEARCH QUESTION: To examine whether the admission levels of blood biomarkers 
can discriminate patients with different combinations of traumatic intracranial 
findings from patients with negative computed tomography (CT) scans.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: One hundred thirty patients with all severities of TBI 
were studied. Seventy-five had CT-positive and 55 CT-negative findings. 
CT-positive patients were divided into three clusters (CL) using the Helsinki CT 
score: focal lesions (CL1), mixed lesions (CL2) and mixed 
lesions + intraventricular haemorrhage (CL3). CT scans were obtained upon 
admission and blood samples taken within 24 h from admission. S100 
calcium-binding protein B (S100B), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), heart 
fatty-acid binding protein (H-FABP), neurofilament light (NF-L), interleukin-10 
(IL-10), total-tau (t-tau), and β-amyloids 1-40 (Aβ40) and 1-42 (Aβ42) were 
analysed from plasma samples. CT-negative cluster was used as control.
RESULTS: GFAP, Aβ40 and Aβ42 levels differed between the clusters, but not 
significantly. NF-L and t-tau discriminated CL1 from CT-negative cluster with 
AUCs of 0.737 and 0.771, respectively. NF-L, t-tau and GFAP discriminated CL2 
from CT-negative cluster with AUCs of 0.839, 0.781 and 0.840, respectively. All 
biomarkers analysed were able to discriminate CL3 and CT-negative cluster.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: All studied biomarkers distinguished the most 
severely injured cluster, CL3, from CT-negative cluster. The results may reflect 
the severity of TBI but also show that biomarkers have a variable ability to 
identify patients with combinations of intracranial traumatic lesions in the 
examined time window.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bas.2025.104195
PMCID: PMC11850735
PMID: 40007799

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following financial 
interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing 
interests: Pia Koivikko reports financial support was provided by State Research 
Funding (Finland). Pia Koivikko reports financial support was provided by Maire 
Taponen Foundation. Henrik Zetterberg reports financial support was provided by 
Swedish Research Council. Henrik Zetterberg reports financial support was 
provided by European Union's Horizon Europe research and innovation programme. 
Henrik Zetterberg reports financial support was provided by Swedish State 
Support for Clinical Research. Henrik Zetterberg reports financial support was 
provided by Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation. Henrik Zetterberg reports 
financial support was provided by AD Strategic Fund. Henrik Zetterberg reports 
financial support was provided by Alzheimer's Association. Henrik Zetterberg 
reports financial support was provided by Bluefield Project. Henrik Zetterberg 
reports financial support was provided by Cure Alzheimer's Fund. Henrik 
Zetterberg reports financial support was provided by Olav Thon Foundation. 
Henrik Zetterberg reports financial support was provided by Erling Persson 
Family Foundation. Henrik Zetterberg reports financial support was provided by 
Familjen Rönströms Stiftelse. Henrik Zetterberg reports financial support was 
provided by Stifelsen för Gamla Tjänarinnor. Henrik Zetterberg reports financial 
support was provided by Hjärnfonden. Henrik Zetterberg reports financial support 
was provided by European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme. 
Henrik Zetterberg reports financial support was provided by The European Union 
Joint Programme – Neurodegenerative Disease Research. Henrik Zetterberg reports 
financial support was provided by National Institute of Health and Care Research 
University College London Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre. Henrik 
Zetterberg reports financial support was provided by UK Dementia Research 
Institute at UCL. Peter Hutchinson reports financial support was provided by UK 
NIHR. Peter Hutchinson reports financial support was provided by Royal College 
of Surgeons of England. Iftakher Hossain reports financial support was provided 
by Finnish Medical Foundation. Iftakher Hossain reports financial support was 
provided by Maire Taponen Foundation. Iftakher Hossain reports financial support 
was provided by State Research Funding (Finland). Iftakher Hossain reports 
financial support was provided by Orion Research Fundation. Virginia FJ Newcombe 
reports financial support was provided by National Institute for Health and Care 
Research. Kaj Blennow reports financial support was provided by Swedish Research 
Council. Kaj Blennow reports financial support was provided by Swedish Alzheimer 
Foundation. Kaj Blennow reports financial support was provided by Swedish 
Alzheimers Association. Kaj Blennow reports financial support was provided by 
Hjärnfonden. Kaj Blennow reports financial support was provided by Swedish State 
under the agreement between the Swedish government and the County Councils, the 
ALF-agreement. Kaj Blennow reports financial support was provided by European 
Union Joint Program for Neurodegenerative Disorders. Kaj Blennow reports 
financial support was provided by Alzheimer's Association. Jussi P. Posti 
reports financial support was provided by Research Council of Finland. Jussi P. 
Posti reports financial support was provided by Maire Taponen Foundation. Jussi 
P. Posti reports financial support was provided by State Research Funding 
(Finland). Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Abbvie that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Acumen 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship 
with Alector that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a 
relationship with Alzinova AB that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik 
Zetterberg reports a relationship with ALZPath that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Amylyx that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Annexon 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship 
with Apellis that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a 
relationship with Artery Therapeutics Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with AZTherapies that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Cognito 
Therapeutics Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg 
reports a relationship with CogRx that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik 
Zetterberg reports a relationship with Denali that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Eisai that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Merry Life 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship 
with Nervgen that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a 
relationship with Novo Nordisk that includes: consulting or advisory and 
speaking and lecture fees. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with 
Optoceutics that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a 
relationship with Passage Bio Inc that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik 
Zetterberg reports a relationship with Pinteon Therapeutics Inc that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Prothena 
that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship 
with Red Abbey Labs that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg 
reports a relationship with reMYND Nv that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Roche that includes: consulting or 
advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship 
with Samumed that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a 
relationship with Siemens Healthineers that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Triplet Therapeutics Inc that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with 
Wave that includes: consulting or advisory. Henrik Zetterberg reports a 
relationship with Alzecure that includes: speaking and lecture fees. Henrik 
Zetterberg reports a relationship with Cellectricon AB that includes: speaking 
and lecture fees. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship with Fujirebio that 
includes: speaking and lecture fees. Henrik Zetterberg reports a relationship 
with Lilly that includes: speaking and lecture fees. Henrik Zetterberg reports a 
relationship with Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB that includes: 
equity or stocks. Virginia FJ Newcombe reports a relationship with Roche 
Phamaceuticals that includes: funding grants. Virginia FJ Newcombe reports a 
relationship with Integra that includes: speaking and lecture fees. Olli Tenovuo 
reports a relationship with NeuroTrauma Sciences that includes: funding grants. 
Olli Tenovuo reports a relationship with Abbott that includes: funding grants. 
Kaj Blennow reports a relationship with Abbvie that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Kaj Blennow reports a relationship with AC Immune that includes: 
consulting or advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Kaj Blennow reports a 
relationship with ALZPath that includes: consulting or advisory. Kaj Blennow 
reports a relationship with Aribio Co., Ltd. that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Kaj Blennow reports a relationship with BioArctic AB that includes: 
consulting or advisory. Kaj Blennow reports a relationship with Biogen that 
includes: consulting or advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Kaj Blennow 
reports a relationship with Eisai that includes: consulting or advisory and 
speaking and lecture fees. Kaj Blennow reports a relationship with Lilly that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Kaj Blennow reports a relationship with Moleac 
Pte Ltd that includes: consulting or advisory. Kaj Blennow reports a 
relationship with Novartis that includes: consulting or advisory. Kaj Blennow 
reports a relationship with Ono Pharma that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Kaj Blennow reports a relationship with Prothena that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Kaj Blennow reports a relationship with Roche Diagnostics that 
includes: consulting or advisory and speaking and lecture fees. Kaj Blennow 
reports a relationship with Siemens Healthineers that includes: consulting or 
advisory. Kaj Blennow reports a relationship with Julius Clinical BV that 
includes: consulting or advisory. Kaj Blennow reports a relationship with 
Celdara Medical LLC that includes: speaking and lecture fees. Kaj Blennow 
reports a relationship with Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB that 
includes: equity or stocks. If there are other authors, they declare that they 
have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could 
have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


48. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2025 Mar;34(3):109-119. doi: 
10.1080/13543784.2025.2473055. Epub 2025 Mar 6.

Pepinemab: a SEMA4D antagonist for treatment of Huntington's and other 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Feigin A(1)(2), Evans EE(3), Fisher TL(3), Zauderer M(3).

Author information:
(1)NYU Langone Health, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Rho, Inc., Durham, NC, USA.
(3)Vaccinex, Inc, Rochester, NY, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Huntington's Disease (HD) is a progressive fatal neurodegenerative 
disease with an unmet need for disease-modifying therapies. Neuroinflammation, 
particularly astrogliosis, plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of HD and 
modulation of this damaging activity and its downstream effects presents a 
promising therapeutic avenue. Pepinemab, a semaphorin 4D (SEMA4D) blocking 
antibody, has the potential to serve this purpose.
AREAS COVERED: We review the proposed mechanisms of action of pepinemab, 
published safety and efficacy results from the 'SIGNAL' Phase 2 trial in HD and 
supporting data from a Phase 1 trial in multiple sclerosis (MS).
EXPERT OPINION: Pepinemab's potential to reduce reactive gliosis and 
inflammation is a novel mechanism of action (MOA) that may be effective as a 
standalone therapy as well as one that may complement other strategies to reduce 
toxic disease associated processes. Pepinemab has demonstrated a favorable 
safety profile and treatment benefits in fluid biomarkers, imaging endpoints, 
and measures of cognitive function that encourage continued development in HD 
and other neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1080/13543784.2025.2473055
PMID: 40007468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Phytomedicine. 2025 Apr;139:156523. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156523. Epub
2025  Feb 17.

Lycium barbarum extract improves brain and visual functions in mice models of 
Alzheimer's disease through activating WNT pathway.

Han X(1), Zhang M(1), Liu Y(1), Huang Y(1), Yang X(2), Wang R(3), Sun WY(3), So 
KF(4), Chiu K(5), He RR(6), Xu Y(7).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, 
Guangdong Basic Research Center of Excellence for Natural Bioactive Molecules 
and Discovery of Innovative Drugs(Jinan University) / Guangdong-Hongkong-Macau 
CNS Regeneration Institute of Jinan University / Key Laboratory of CNS 
Regeneration (Jinan University) Ministry of Education / Guangdong Key Laboratory 
of Non-human Primate Research, Guangzhou 510632, China.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Modern Toxicology, Shenzhen Medical Key Discipline 
of Health Toxicology, Shenzhen Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Shenzhen, China.
(3)Guangdong Engineering Research Center of Traditional Chinese Medicine & 
Disease Susceptibility/Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
& Disease Susceptibility/Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Universities Joint Laboratory 
for the Internationalization of Traditional Chinese Medicine/Guangdong 
Engineering Research Center of Traditional Chinese Medicine & Health Products, 
Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, 
Guangdong Basic Research Center of Excellence for Natural Bioactive Molecules 
and Discovery of Innovative Drugs(Jinan University) / Guangdong-Hongkong-Macau 
CNS Regeneration Institute of Jinan University / Key Laboratory of CNS 
Regeneration (Jinan University) Ministry of Education / Guangdong Key Laboratory 
of Non-human Primate Research, Guangzhou 510632, China; State Key Laboratory of 
Brain and Cognitive Sciences, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China; 
Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong SAR, China; Department of Psychology, The University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong SAR, China; Co-Innovation Center of Neuroregeneration, Nantong 
University, Nantong, Jiangsu Province, China. Electronic address: 
hrmaskf@hku.hk.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, The University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China; Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, 
The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China; Department of Psychology, The 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China. Electronic address: 
datwai@hku.hk.
(6)Guangdong Engineering Research Center of Traditional Chinese Medicine & 
Disease Susceptibility/Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
& Disease Susceptibility/Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Universities Joint Laboratory 
for the Internationalization of Traditional Chinese Medicine/Guangdong 
Engineering Research Center of Traditional Chinese Medicine & Health Products, 
Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China. Electronic address: 
rongronghe@jnu.edu.cn.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Molecules and Druggability Assessment, 
Guangdong Basic Research Center of Excellence for Natural Bioactive Molecules 
and Discovery of Innovative Drugs(Jinan University) / Guangdong-Hongkong-Macau 
CNS Regeneration Institute of Jinan University / Key Laboratory of CNS 
Regeneration (Jinan University) Ministry of Education / Guangdong Key Laboratory 
of Non-human Primate Research, Guangzhou 510632, China; Co-Innovation Center of 
Neuroregeneration, Nantong University, Nantong, Jiangsu Province, China. 
Electronic address: xuying@jnu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia in the 
elderly, characterized by visual deficits and cognitive impairment. However, 
current therapies have limited efficacy.
PURPOSE: This study aims to investigate whether Lycium barbarum extract (LBE) 
can mitigate the decline in brain and visual function in mouse models of AD 
during the middle and late stages.
METHODS: The chemical constituents of LBE were identified using Liquid 
Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry. LBE was administered daily to 5xFAD mice for 
one month and to 3xTG mice for two months, via the intragastric route, until the 
middle and late stages of AD. Visual and brain functions were assessed through 
behavioral tests and electrophysiological recordings. The structure of the 
hippocampal region and retina was evaluated using immunostaining. RNA sequencing 
and western blotting were performed to explore potential mechanisms.
RESULTS: Sixteen compounds were identified in LBE, with lycibarbarspermidines 
and rutin being the major components. Functionally, LBE significantly improved 
memory and light responses of retinal ganglion cells in both 5xFAD and 3xTG 
mice. It also enhanced long-term potentiation in the hippocampus of 5xFAD mice 
and cortical visual function in 3xTG mice. Structurally, LBE reduced hippocampal 
Aβ deposits in 5xFAD mice and Tau phosphorylation in 3xTG mice. In the retinas 
of 3xTG mice, LBE increased ganglion cell survival and inhibited inflammation 
and oxidative stress. Mechanistically, LBE restored the expression of WNT5a/b 
and KRAS, and inhibited GSK3β activation in the retinas of 3xTG mice.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that LBE can alleviate visual and brain 
function deterioration in various AD mouse models, even at the middle or late 
stages, possibly through the activation of the WNT pathway leading to the 
inhibition of Tau phosphorylation. This study reveals a novel mechanism of LBE 
action and proposes a promising strategy for treating AD patients using natural 
plant extracts, even at advanced stages.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156523
PMID: 40007341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


50. J Parkinsons Dis. 2025 Feb;15(1):129-139. doi: 10.1177/1877718X241305626.
Epub  2025 Feb 25.

A framework to standardize gait study protocols in Parkinson's disease.

Mancini M(1), Hausdorff JM(2)(3), Pelosin E(4)(5), Bonato P(6), Camicioli R(7), 
Ellis TD(8), Klucken J(9), Gifford L(10), Fasano A(11)(12)(13), Nieuwboer A(14), 
Kopil C(15), Klapper K(15), Kirsch L(15), Dexter DT(16), Fuest R(17), Miller 
V(18), Asis A(19), Müller ML(20), Stephenson D(20), Mirelman A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, 
USA.
(2)Laboratory for Early Markers of Neurodegeneration, Center for the study of 
Movement, Cognition and Mobility, Neurological Institute, Tel Aviv Medical 
Center, Sagol School of Neuroscience and Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center and Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics, Maternal 
and Child Health (DINOGMI), Genoa, Italy.
(5)IRCCS, Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genoa, Italy.
(6)Department of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(7)University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(8)Department of Physical Therapy, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Université du Luxembourg, Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg.
(10)AM Radio for Corus Entertainment in Canada, Vancouver, Canada.
(11)Edmond J. Safra Program in Parkinson's Disease, Morton and Gloria Shulman 
Movement Disorders Clinic, Toronto Western Hospital, UHN, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(12)Division of Neurology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(13)Krembil Brain Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(14)Department of Rehabilitation Science, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(15)The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, New York, NY, USA; 
Partner in the Galop committee for MJFF.
(16)Parkinson's UK, London, UK.
(17)Cure Parkinson's, London, UK.
(18)Shake It Up Australia Foundation, Spit Junction, NSW, Australia.
(19)Parkinson Canada, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(20)Critical Path Institute, Tucson, AZ, USA.

BackgroundResearch over the past twenty years has shown that gait outcomes have 
a high sensitivity for diagnosing Parkinson's disease (PD), for detecting the 
effects of interventions, and for monitoring disease progression, even in early 
disease. However, the lack of standardization in protocols and reported gait 
measures is impeding data aggregation across study sites and contributes to 
heterogeneity in the results, thus limiting the adoption of gait outcomes in 
clinical trials.ObjectiveTo provide recommendations for a minimum set of gait 
measures to be adopted in projects evaluating people with PD to enhance 
standardization across the field.MethodsThe Gait Advisors Leading Outcomes for 
Parkinson's (GALOP) committee is an advisory committee for the MJFF. Based on a 
five-step approach, GALOP generated recommendations for standardizing protocols 
that assess quantitative gait measures, following expert consensus on best 
practices.ResultsBuilt on the literature and consensus amongst experts, we 
recommend a minimum set of meta-data to accompany gait protocols and a minimum 
gait assessment protocol to be performed at a comfortable speed. Suggestions on 
challenging testing are provided.ConclusionsTo support and empower the 
scientific community, we have generated recommendations to collect and share 
gait data gathered from people with PD using an open data repository. 
Standardizing gait protocols and outcomes in PD has the potential of 
accelerating research and clinical trials, harmonizing protocols across study 
sites, fostering collaborations, and in the long run, improving patient care and 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1177/1877718X241305626
PMID: 40007168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsDrs. Alice 
Nieuwboer and Anat Mirelman are Editorial Board Members of this journal but were 
not involved in the peer-review process of this article nor had access to any 
information regarding its peer-review. The remaining authors declared no 
potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article.


51. Gerontol Geriatr Educ. 2025 Apr-Jun;46(2):310-323. doi: 
10.1080/02701960.2025.2465675. Epub 2025 Feb 25.

Evaluation of pharmacy student empathy toward patients living with Alzheimer's 
disease and related dementias and caregivers following a dementia simulation.

Lavender D(1), Johnson BR(2), Logan L(3), Glasgow J(3), Vitale D(3), Caballero 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Georgia College of Pharmacy, Department of Clinical and 
Administrative Pharmacy, Athens, Georgia.
(2)Ascension Saint Thomas Medical Partners New Salem, Murfreesboro, Tennessee, 
USA.
(3)University of Georgia College of Pharmacy, Athens, Georgia.

Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD) is a leading cause of death in 
the United States, with national goals in place to improve the quality of care 
provided to this population. With little available literature on empathy 
training for pharmacy students in caring for patients living with ADRD, this 
study outlined the implementation process of an immersive sensory experience, 
the Virtual Dementia Tour (VDT), into a Doctor of Pharmacy curriculum and 
evaluated the impact of the experience on pharmacy students' empathy for persons 
living with ADRD. After completing the VDT, quantitative analysis demonstrated a 
significant reduction in the pharmacy students' ability to capably complete 
tasks and relax, and a positive change in their perceptions of the need for 
improved care for persons living with ADRD. Qualitative analytical approaches 
identified themes of "Empathy," "Patient Care and Advocacy," "Education," as 
well as the cognitive, mental, and physical impact of the experience. Valuable 
lessons learned while providing ADRD empathy training to Doctor of Pharmacy 
students includes reallocation of faculty resources, curricular development of 
an innovative empathy-building experience for students, and improved experience 
delivery efficiency. Overall, a significant change in pharmacy students' empathy 
toward patients living with ADRD was observed.

DOI: 10.1080/02701960.2025.2465675
PMID: 40007109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(3):678-697. doi: 10.1177/13872877251319467.
Epub  2025 Feb 25.

A Mediterranean-style diet protects against cognitive and behavioral deficits, 
adiposity, and Alzheimer's disease-related markers, compared to a 
macronutrient-matched typical American diet in C57BL/6J mice.

Braden-Kuhle PN(1), Lacy VA(2), Brice KN(3), Bertrand ME(2), Uras HB(4), 
Shoffner C(4), Fischer BE(2), Rana A(4), Willis JL(5), Boehm GW(4), Chumley 
MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanguard University of Southern California, Costa 
Mesa, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Psychological Sciences, Rice University, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, TX, USA.
(5)Department of Nutritional Sciences, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, 
TX, USA.

BackgroundResearch suggests that modifying risk factors may prevent or delay up 
to 40% of dementia cases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Thus, 
understanding the potential of healthful dietary patterns, like the 
Mediterranean diet (MD), in AD prevention is crucial. While supplementation of 
individual Mediterranean foods has demonstrated efficacy in reducing AD 
biomarkers and cognitive impairment in rodents, the effects of a comprehensive 
MD warrant further investigation. Additionally, while rodent studies often use a 
"Western diet" as a model for the typical American diet (TAD), these diets 
generally exceed the macronutrient densities of typical American consumption, 
particularly in fats and carbohydrates.ObjectiveTo better reflect human diets, 
we developed two diets for mice that more closely mirrored the macronutrient 
composition of the traditional MD or the TAD, each with matched macronutrient 
profiles (50% kcal from carbohydrates, 35% kcal from fat, 15% kcal from 
protein), and distinct food sources from Mediterranean regions or the U.S., 
respectively.MethodsMale C57BL/6J mice were randomly assigned to one diet (MD or 
TAD) at weaning (21 days of age), which they consumed for six 
months.ResultsCompared to the TAD, MD animals had lower body weight, abdominal 
and hepatic fat, serum TNF-α, and central Aβ1-42, while also exhibiting enhanced 
exploratory behavior, reduced anxiety-like behavior, and preserved spatial 
memory. The MD also protected against LPS-induced central inflammation and BDNF 
loss.ConclusionsThese findings suggest that a comprehensive MD provides 
protection against metabolic and AD-related markers in wildtype mice, despite 
matched caloric availability to the TAD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251319467
PMID: 40007076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


53. Pharmaceutics. 2025 Feb 17;17(2):267. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17020267.

Synthesis and Characterization of Memantine-Loaded Niosomes for Enhanced 
Alzheimer's Disease Targeting.

Turkez H(1), Oner S(2), Yıldırım OC(2), Arslan ME(2)(3), Dimmito MP(4), Kahraman 
ÇY(5), Marinelli L(4), Sonmez E(6), Kiki Ö(7), Tatar A(5), Cacciatore I(4), Di 
Stefano A(4), Mardinoglu A(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Atatürk University, 
Erzurum 25100, Turkey.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Faculty of Science, Erzurum 
Technical University, Erzurum 25100, Turkey.
(3)Genescence Biotechnology, Ata Teknokent, Atatürk University Technology 
Development Zone, Erzurum 25100, Turkey.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, University "G. D'Annunzio" of Chieti-Pescara, 6512 
Chieti, Italy.
(5)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Atatürk University, 
Erzurum 25100, Turkey.
(6)Advanced Materials Research Laboratory, Department of Nanoscience & 
Nanoengineering, Graduate School of Natural and Applied Sciences, Atatürk 
University, Erzurum 25100, Turkey.
(7)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Atatürk University, 
Erzurum 25100, Turkey.
(8)Science for Life Laboratory, KTH-Royal Institute of Technology, SE-17121 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(9)Centre for Host-Microbiome Interactions, Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & 
Craniofacial Sciences, King's College London, London SE1 9RT, UK.

Background/Objectives: Over the past 25 years, numerous biological molecules, 
like recombinant lysosomal enzymes, neurotrophins, receptors, and therapeutic 
antibodies, have been tested in clinical trials for neurological diseases. 
However, achieving significant success in clinical applications has remained 
elusive. A primary challenge has been the inability of these molecules to 
traverse the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Recognizing this hurdle, our study aimed 
to utilize niosomes as delivery vehicles, leveraging the "molecular Trojan 
horse" technology, to enhance the transport of molecules across the BBB. 
Methods: Previously synthesized memantine derivatives (MP1-4) were encapsulated 
into niosomes for improved BBB permeability, hypothesizing that this approach 
could minimize peripheral drug toxicity while ensuring targeted brain delivery. 
Using the human neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y) cell line differentiated into 
neuron-like structures with retinoic acid and then exposed to amyloid beta 1-42 
peptide, we established an in vitro Alzheimer's disease (AD) model. In this 
model, the potential usability of MP1-4 was assessed through viability tests 
(MTT) and toxicological response analysis. The niosomes' particle size and 
morphological structures were characterized using scanning electron microscopy 
(SEM), with their loading and release capacities determined via UV spectroscopy. 
Crucially, the ability of the niosomes to cross the BBB and their potential 
anti-Alzheimer efficacy were analyzed in an in vitro transwell system with 
endothelial cells. Results: The niosomal formulations demonstrated effective 
drug encapsulation (encapsulation efficiency: 85.3% ± 2.7%), controlled release 
(72 h release: 38.5% ± 1.2%), and stable morphology (PDI: 0.22 ± 0.03, zeta 
potential: -31.4 ± 1.5 mV). Among the derivatives, MP1, MP2, and MP4 exhibited 
significant neuroprotective effects, enhancing cell viability by approximately 
40% (p < 0.05) in the presence of Aβ1-42 at a concentration of 47 µg/mL. The 
niosomal delivery system improved BBB permeability by 2.5-fold compared to free 
drug derivatives, as confirmed using an in vitro bEnd.3 cell model. Conclusions: 
Memantine-loaded niosomes provide a promising platform for overcoming BBB 
limitations and enhancing the therapeutic efficacy of Alzheimer's disease 
treatments. This study highlights the potential of nanotechnology-based delivery 
systems in developing targeted therapies for neurodegenerative diseases. Further 
in vivo studies are warranted to validate these findings and explore clinical 
applications.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17020267
PMCID: PMC11860023
PMID: 40006634

Conflict of interest statement: A.M. and H.T. are the founders and shareholders 
of Bash Biotech Inc., San Diego, CA, USA. The other authors declare no competing 
interests.


54. Pharmaceutics. 2025 Jan 21;17(2):141. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17020141.

Exploring the Link Between Periodontitis and Alzheimer's Disease-Could a 
Nanoparticulate Vaccine Break It?

Ferreira da Silva A(1), Gomes A(1), Gonçalves LMD(1), Fernandes A(1), Almeida 
AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Medicines (iMed.ULisboa), Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Universidade de Lisboa, Av. Professor Gama Pinto, 1649-003 Lisbon, Portugal.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, as 
approximately 55 million people worldwide are affected, with a significant 
tendency to increase. It reveals three main pathological features: amyloid 
plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and neuroinflammation, responsible for the 
neurodegenerative changes that slowly lead to deterioration of personality and 
cognitive control. Over a century after the first case report, effective 
treatments remain elusive, likely due to an incomplete understanding of the 
precise mechanisms driving its pathogenesis. Recent studies provide growing 
evidence of an infectious aetiology for AD, a hypothesis reinforced by findings 
that amyloid beta functions as an antimicrobial peptide. Among the 
microorganisms already associated with AD, Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg), the 
keystone pathogen of periodontitis (PeD), has received particular attention as a 
possible aetiological agent for AD development. Herein, we review the 
epidemiological and genetic evidence linking PeD and Pg to AD, highlighting the 
identification of periodontal bacteria in post mortem analysis of AD patients' 
brains and identifying putative mechanistic links relevant to the biological 
plausibility of the association. With the focus on AD research shifting from 
cure to prevention, the proposed mechanisms linking PeD to AD open the door for 
unravelling new prophylactic approaches able to reduce the global burden of AD. 
As hypothesised in this review, these could include a bionanotechnological 
approach involving the development of an oral nanoparticulate vaccine based on 
Pg-specific antigens. Such a vaccine could prevent Pg antigens from progressing 
to the brain and triggering AD pathology, representing a promising step toward 
innovative and effective AD prevention.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics17020141
PMCID: PMC11858903
PMID: 40006510

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


55. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2025 Feb 19;18(2):271. doi: 10.3390/ph18020271.

Brain Glucose Hypometabolism and Brain Iron Accumulation as Therapeutic Targets 
for Alzheimer's Disease and Other CNS Disorders.

Rao IY(1), Hanson LR(1)(2), Frey Ii WH(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Center for Memory and Aging, Saint Paul, MN 55130, USA.
(2)HealthPartners Institute, Bloomington, MN 55425, USA.

Two common mechanisms contributing to multiple neurological disorders, including 
Alzheimer's disease, are brain glucose hypometabolism (BGHM) and brain iron 
accumulation (BIA). Currently, BGHM and BIA are both widely acknowledged as 
biomarkers that aid in diagnosing CNS disorders, distinguishing between 
disorders with similar symptoms, and tracking disease progression. Therapeutics 
targeting BGHM and BIA in Alzheimer's disease can be beneficial in treating 
neurocognitive symptoms. This review addresses the evidence for the therapeutic 
potential of targeting BGHM and BIA in multiple CNS disorders. Intranasal 
insulin, which is anti-inflammatory and increases brain cell energy, and 
intranasal deferoxamine, which reduces oxidative damage and inflammation, 
represent promising treatments targeting these mechanisms. Both BGHM and BIA are 
promising therapeutic targets for AD and other CNS disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/ph18020271
PMCID: PMC11859321
PMID: 40006083

Conflict of interest statement: W.H.F.II and L.R.H. are inventors on patents 
owned by the HealthPartners Institute related to intranasal insulin and 
intranasal deferoxamine. I.Y.R. has no competing interests.


56. Molecules. 2025 Feb 18;30(4):940. doi: 10.3390/molecules30040940.

Discovery of Isobavachin, a Natural Flavonoid, as an Apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4) 
Structure Corrector for Alzheimer's Disease.

Patil SP(1)(2), Kuehn BR(1), McCullough C(1), Bates D(1), Hazim H(1), Diallo 
M(1), Francois N(1).

Author information:
(1)NanoBio Laboratory, Widener University, Chester, PA 19013, USA.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Widener University, Chester, PA 19013, 
USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease 
characterized by extensive neurodegeneration and consequent severe memory loss. 
Apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4) is the strongest genetic risk factor for AD, with its 
pathological effects linked to structural instability and altered interactions 
with lipids and other important disease proteins including amyloid beta (Aβ) and 
tau (τ). Therefore, correcting and stabilizing the ApoE4 structure has emerged 
as a promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating its detrimental effects. In 
this study, we investigated naturally occurring bioavailable flavonoids as ApoE4 
stabilizers, focusing on their potential to modulate ApoE4 structure and 
function. A comprehensive investigation of a focused database using our 
integrated computational and experimental screening protocol led to the 
identification of Isobavachin as a potential corrector and stabilizer of ApoE4 
structure. In addition, a few other bioavailable flavonoids with similar 
stabilizing properties were identified, albeit to a much lesser extent as 
compared to Isobavachin. The findings support the therapeutic potential of 
flavonoids as ApoE4 modulators and highlight Isobavachin as a lead candidate for 
further preclinical evaluation. These results provide new insights into the 
pharmacological targeting of ApoE4 and open avenues for the development of 
flavonoid-based, ApoE-directed therapies for AD.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30040940
PMCID: PMC11858207
PMID: 40005250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


57. Molecules. 2025 Feb 17;30(4):922. doi: 10.3390/molecules30040922.

Promising Natural Remedies for Alzheimer's Disease Therapy.

Thawabteh AM(1)(2), Ghanem AW(2), AbuMadi S(2), Thaher D(2), Jaghama W(2), 
Karaman D(3), Karaman R(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Birzeit University, West Bank, Ramallah 00972, 
Palestine.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, Nursing and Health Professions, Birzeit University, West 
Bank, Ramallah 00972, Palestine.
(3)Pharmaceutical Sciences Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al-Quds University, 
Jerusalem 20002, Palestine.
(4)Department of Sciences, University of Basilicata, Via dell'Ateneo Lucano 10, 
85100 Potenza, Italy.

This study examines the intricacies of Alzheimer's disease (AD), its origins, 
and the potential advantages of various herbal extracts and natural compounds 
for enhancing memory and cognitive performance. Future studies into AD 
treatments are encouraged by the review's demonstration of the effectiveness of 
phytoconstituents that were extracted from a number of plants. In addition to 
having many beneficial effects, such as improved cholinergic and cognitive 
function, herbal medicines are also much less harmful, more readily available, 
and easier to use than other treatments. They also pass without difficulty 
through the blood-brain barrier (BBB). This study focused on natural substances 
and their effects on AD by using academic databases to identify peer-reviewed 
studies published between 2015 and 2024. According to the literature review, 66 
phytoconstituents that were isolated from 21 distinct plants have shown 
efficacy, which could be encouraging for future research on AD therapies. Since 
most clinical trials produce contradictory results, the study suggests that 
larger-scale studies with longer treatment durations are necessary to validate 
or refute the therapeutic efficacy of herbal AD treatments.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30040922
PMCID: PMC11858286
PMID: 40005231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


58. Molecules. 2025 Feb 14;30(4):891. doi: 10.3390/molecules30040891.

Playing Around the Coumarin Core in the Discovery of Multimodal Compounds 
Directed at Alzheimer's-Related Targets: A Recent Literature Overview.

Rullo M(1), La Spada G(1), Stefanachi A(1), Macchia E(1), Pisani L(1), Leonetti 
F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy-Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Bari Aldo Moro, 
Via E. Orabona, 4, 70125 Bari, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) causes a great socioeconomic burden because of its 
increasing prevalence and the lack of effective therapies. The multifactorial 
nature of AD prompts researchers to search for new strategies for discovering 
disease-modifying therapeutics. To this extent, the multitarget approach holds 
the potential of synergic or cooperative activities arising from compounds that 
are properly designed to address two or more pathogenetic mechanisms. As a 
privileged and nature-friendly scaffold, coumarin has successfully been enrolled 
as the heterocyclic core in the design of multipotent anti-Alzheimer's agents. 
Herein, we comprehensively summarize the most recent literature (2018-2023), 
covering the rational design and the discovery of coumarin-containing 
multitarget directed ligands (MTDLs) whose anti-AD profile encompassed at least 
two different biological activities relevant for disease onset and progression. 
To enhance the clarity of presentation, synthetic coumarin-based MTDLs are 
categorized into four clusters based on their substitution pattern and reported 
bioactivities: (i) mono-, (ii) di-, and (iii) polysubstituted coumarins directed 
at protein targets, and (iv) coumarins directed at protein targets with 
additional metal-chelating features. Before discussing multimodal coumarins, the 
rationale for addressing each biological target is briefly presented.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30040891
PMCID: PMC11857976
PMID: 40005200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


59. Molecules. 2025 Feb 14;30(4):877. doi: 10.3390/molecules30040877.

Future Perspectives of NMDAR in CNS Disorders.

Capó T(1)(2)(3), Rebassa JB(1)(2)(3), Raïch I(1)(2)(3), Lillo J(2)(3)(4), Badia 
P(1), Navarro G(1)(2)(3), Reyes-Resina I(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Physiology, Faculty of Pharmacy and Food 
Sciences, University of Barcelona, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Centro de Investigación en Red, Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 28031 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, University of Barcelona (NeuroUB), Campus Mundet, 
Passeig de la Vall d'Hebron171, 08035 Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biomedicine, School of Biology, 
University of Barcelona, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.

Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases are 
among the leading causes of physical and cognitive disability across the globe. 
Fifty million people worldwide suffer these diseases, and that number is 
expected to rise as the population ages. Ictus is another pathology that also 
courses with neurodegeneration and is a leading cause of mortality and long-term 
disability in developed countries. Schizophrenia is not as common as other 
mental disorders, affecting approximately 24 million people worldwide. All these 
disorders have in common that still there is not an effective pharmacological 
treatment to cure them. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR) has 
attracted attention as a potential therapeutic target due to its important role 
in learning and memory and also due to its implication in excitotoxicity 
processes. Some drugs targeting NMDARs are already being used to treat symptoms 
of disorders affecting the central nervous system (CNS). Here, we aim to review 
the implications of NMDAR in these CNS pathologies, its role as a potential 
therapeutic target, and the future perspectives for developing new treatments 
focused on these receptors.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30040877
PMCID: PMC11857888
PMID: 40005187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


60. Molecules. 2025 Feb 14;30(4):874. doi: 10.3390/molecules30040874.

(11)C-Labeling of a Flavanone Extracted from a South American Native Species for 
Evaluation of Its Interaction with GSK-3β.

Zeni M(1)(2), Santi MD(2), Arredondo F(2), Reyes L(2), Bentura M(2), Carvalho 
D(3), Peralta M(4)(5), Ortega MG(4)(5), Abin-Carriquiry JA(3), Martínez-Gonzalez 
L(6)(7), Gambini JP(2), Duarte P(2), Martinez A(6)(7), Rey A(8), Giglio J(2).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Chemistry, Facultad de Química, Universidad de la 
República, General Flores 2124, Montevideo 11800, Uruguay.
(2)Centro Uruguayo de Imagenología Molecular (CUDIM), Av. Ricaldoni 2010, 
Montevideo 11600, Uruguay.
(3)Instituto de Investigaciones Biológicas "Clemente Estable" (IIBCE), Av. 
Italia 3318, Montevideo 11600, Uruguay.
(4)Instituto Multidisciplinario de Biología Vegetal (IMBIV-CONICET), Av. Vélez 
Sarsfield 1611, Córdoba 5000, Argentina.
(5)Laboratorio de Farmacognosia, Departamento de Ciencias Farmacéuticas, 
Facultad de Ciencias Químicas, Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Av. Medina 
Allende 1998, Córdoba 5000, Argentina.
(6)Centro de Investigaciones Biológicas Margarita Salas, CSIC, Calle Ramiro 
Maetzu 9, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(7)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Sobre Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 28031 Madrid, 
Spain.
(8)Área de Radioquímica, Facultad de Química, Universidad de la República, 
General Flores 2124, Montevideo 11800, Uruguay.

Natural products play a crucial role in drug discovery, primarily due to their 
structural complexity. The prenylated flavanone glabranin 
((S)-5,7-dihydroxy-8-(3-methylbut-2-en-1-yl)-2-phenylchroman-4-one), isolated 
from the Dalea elegans plant species, has demonstrated neuroprotective effects, 
attributed to its inhibition of GSK-3β, as per our previous in silico studies. 
Given the enzyme's diverse functions and its potential as a target for 
neurodegenerative diseases, our group synthesized and evaluated an 11C-labeled 
derivative of glabranin. We present its in vitro biological activity, including 
IC50, neuronal uptake in Alzheimer's-affected brain regions, key physicochemical 
properties, and animal studies. This study confirms [11C]FLA's interaction with 
GSK-3β in vitro, highlighting the potential of radiotracers in bioactive 
compound research.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30040874
PMCID: PMC11857971
PMID: 40005183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.61. Molecules. 2025 Feb 12;30(4):848. doi: 10.3390/molecules30040848.

The Role of Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor as an Essential Mediator in 
Neuronal Functions and the Therapeutic Potential of Its Mimetics for 
Neuroprotection in Neurologic and Psychiatric Disorders.

Numakawa T(1), Kajihara R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Modulation, Institute of Molecular Embryology and 
Genetics, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto 860-0811, Japan.
(2)Department of Hematology and Immunology, Faculty of Life Science, Kumamoto 
University, Kumamoto 862-0976, Japan.

Among neurotrophins, including nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4/5), 
BDNF has been extensively studied for its physiological role in cell survival 
and synaptic regulation in the central nervous system's (CNS's) neurons. BDNF 
binds to TrkB (a tyrosine kinase) with high affinity, and the resulting 
downstream intracellular signaling cascades play crucial roles in determining 
cell fate, including neuronal differentiation and maturation of the CNS neurons. 
It has been well demonstrated that the downregulation/dysregulation of the 
BDNF/TrkB system is implicated in the pathogenesis of neurologic and psychiatric 
disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and depression. Interestingly, the 
effects of BDNF mimetic compounds including flavonoids, small molecules which 
can activate TrkB-mediated signaling, have been extensively investigated as 
potential therapeutic strategies for brain diseases, given that p75NTR, a common 
neurotrophin receptor, also contributes to cell death under a variety of 
pathological conditions such as neurodegeneration. Since the downregulation of 
the BDNF/TrkB system is associated with the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative 
diseases and psychiatric disorders, understanding how alterations in the 
BDNF/TrkB system contribute to disease progression could provide valuable 
insight for the prevention of these brain diseases. The present review shows 
recent advances in the molecular mechanisms underlying the BDNF/TrkB system in 
neuronal survival and plasticity, providing critical insights into the potential 
therapeutic impact of BDNF mimetics in the pathophysiology of brain diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30040848
PMCID: PMC11857940
PMID: 40005159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


62. Molecules. 2025 Feb 7;30(4):771. doi: 10.3390/molecules30040771.

Identification and Therapeutic Potential of Polymethoxylated Flavones in Citri 
Reticulatae Pericarpium for Alzheimer's Disease: Targeting Neuroinflammation.

Wang X(1), Yi Z(1), Zhang Y(2), Zhang J(2), Li X(1), Qi D(1), Wang Q(1), Chai 
X(1), Liu H(1), Wang G(3), Pan Y(2), Liu Y(1), Yu G(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing 102488, China.
(2)Institute of Information on Traditional Chinese Medicine, China Academy of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100700, China.
(3)Zhongcai Health (Beijing) Biological Technology Development Co., Ltd., 
Beijing 101500, China.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing 
102488, China.

Neuroinflammation is a significant driving force in the pathogenesis and 
progression of central nervous system (CNS) disorders. Polymethoxylated flavones 
(PMFs), the key lipid-soluble constituents in Citri Reticulatae Pericarpium 
(CRP), exhibit excellent blood-brain barrier permeability and anti-inflammatory 
properties, holding therapeutic potential for CNS disorders. However, the 
specific bioactive components and therapeutic effects of PMFs in treating CNS 
disorders are not well understood. This study employed a comprehensive 
sequential metabolism approach to elucidate the dynamic biotransformation of 
PMFs in vivo and identified seven brain-targeting components. Subsequently, 
network pharmacology and experimental validation were utilized to explore the 
potential mechanisms of PMFs. The results suggested that PMFs have potential 
therapeutic value for Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like mice, with the inhibition of 
neuroinflammation likely being a key mechanism of their anti-AD effects. 
Notably, sinensetin, tangeretin, nobiletin, and 
3,5,6,7,8,3',4'-heptamethoxyflavone were identified as potent neuroinflammatory 
inhibitors. This research elucidated the chemical and therapeutic foundations of 
PMFs, indicating their potential as treatments or nutritional supplements for AD 
prevention and treatment. Moreover, the integrated triad approach of sequential 
metabolism, network pharmacology, and experimental validation may serve as a 
promising strategy for screening bioactive compounds in herbs or functional 
foods, as well as for elucidating their therapeutic mechanisms.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30040771
PMCID: PMC11857992
PMID: 40005082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Guopeng Wang was employed by the company 
Zhongcai Health (Beijing) Biological Technology Development Co., Ltd. The 
remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any 
commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest.


63. Nutrients. 2025 Feb 19;17(4):729. doi: 10.3390/nu17040729.

Oral Asiatic Acid Improves Cognitive Function and Modulates Antioxidant and 
Mitochondrial Pathways in Female 5xFAD Mice.

Varada S(1), Chamberlin SR(1), Bui L(1), Brandes MS(1), Gladen-Kolarsky N(1), 
Harris CJ(1), Hack W(1), Neff CJ(1), Brumbach BH(2), Soumyanath A(1), Quinn 
JF(1)(3), Gray NE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR 
97239, USA.
(2)OHSU-PSU School of Public Health, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, OR 97239, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology and Parkinson's Disease Research Education and 
Clinical Care Center (PADRECC), VA Portland Healthcare System, Portland, OR 
97239, USA.

Background/Objectives: Extracts of the plant Centella asiatica can enhance 
mitochondrial function, promote antioxidant activity and improve cognitive 
deficits. Asiatic acid (AA) is one of the constituent triterpene compounds 
present in the plant. In this study, we explore the effects of AA on brain 
mitochondrial function, antioxidant response and cognition in a beta-amyloid 
(Aβ)-overexpressing 5xFAD mouse line. Methods: Six- to seven-month-old 5xFAD 
mice were treated with 1% AA for 4 weeks. In the last week of treatment, 
associative memory was assessed along with mitochondrial bioenergetics and the 
expression of mitochondrial and antioxidant response genes from isolated 
cortical synaptosomes. The Aβ plaque burden was also evaluated. Results: AA 
treatment resulted in improvements in associative memory in female 5xFAD mice 
without altering the Aβ plaque burden. Cortical mitochondrial function and 
mitochondrial gene expression were increased in the AA-treated female 5xFAD 
mice, as was the expression of antioxidant genes. More modest effects of AA on 
cortical mitochondrial function and mitochondrial and antioxidant gene 
expression were observed in male 5xFAD mice. Conclusions: Oral AA treatment 
improved cognitive and mitochondrial function and activated antioxidant in 
Aβ-overexpressing mice. These changes occurred independent of alterations in Aβ 
plaque burden, suggesting that AA could have translational therapeutic relevance 
in later-stage AD when plaques are well established.

DOI: 10.3390/nu17040729
PMCID: PMC11858387
PMID: 40005058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


64. Nutrients. 2025 Feb 12;17(4):653. doi: 10.3390/nu17040653.

The Potential Role of Phytochemicals in Alzheimer's Disease.

Baranowska-Wójcik E(1), Gajowniczek-Ałasa D(1), Pawlikowska-Pawlęga B(2), 
Szwajgier D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Microbiology and Human Nutrition, University of 
Life Sciences, Skromna Street 8, 20-704 Lublin, Poland.
(2)Department of Functional Anatomy and Cytobiology, Institute of Biological 
Sciences, Faculty of Biology and Biotechnology, Maria Curie-Sklodowska 
University, Akademicka 19, 20-033 Lublin, Poland.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition characterised by 
memory loss and cognitive disorders. The disease has been related to the 
presence of so-called senile plaques forming due to the buildup of amyloid β in 
the hippocampus. The AD therapies developed to date continue to prove 
insufficient, while long-term exposure to synthetic drugs tends to lead to 
serious side effects, which is why potential herbal treatments are generally 
preferable to conventional drug regimens and, as such, have been under 
considerable research scrutiny in recent years. There are a number of herbs, 
e.g., lavender Ginkgo biloba, that are already commonly employed in alleviating 
the symptoms of certain neurological disorders. In light of the above, the aim 
of the following paper is to discuss the importance of medicinal herbs, their 
neuroprotective properties, and their mechanisms of activity. The article 
presents a review of the identified therapeutic properties of phytomedicines 
that exhibit strong anti-Alzheimer's disease (AD) activity.

DOI: 10.3390/nu17040653
PMCID: PMC11858096
PMID: 40004981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


65. J Clin Med. 2025 Feb 7;14(4):1070. doi: 10.3390/jcm14041070.

Plasma Biomarkers for Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy and Implications for 
Amyloid-Related Imaging Abnormalities: A Comprehensive Review.

Sin MK(1), Dage JL(2), Nho K(2), Dowling NM(3), Seyfried NT(4), Bennett DA(5), 
Levey AI(6), Ahmed A(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Seattle University, Seattle, WA 98122, USA.
(2)School of Medicine, Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(3)School of Nursing, George Washington University, Washington, DC 20052, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 
30329, USA.
(5)School of Medicine, Rush University, Chicago, IL 60612, USA.
(6)School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Washington, DC 
20422, USA.
(8)Department of Medicine, George Washington University, Washington, DC 20037, 
USA.
(9)Department of Medicine, Georgetown University, Washington, DC 20057, USA.

Anti-amyloid therapies (AATs) are increasingly being recognized as promising 
treatment options for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities (ARIAs), small areas of edema and microbleeds in the brain 
presenting as abnormal signals in MRIs of the brain for patients with AD, are 
the most common side effects of AATs. While most ARIAs are asymptomatic, they 
can be associated with symptoms like nausea, headache, confusion, and gait 
instability and, less commonly, with more serious complications such as seizures 
and death. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) has been found to be a major risk 
for ARIA development. The identification of sensitive and reliable non-invasive 
biomarkers for CAA has been an area of AD research over the years, but with the 
approval of AATs, this area has taken on a new urgency. This comprehensive 
review highlights several potential biomarkers, such as Aβ40, Aβ40/42, 
phosphorylated-tau217, neurofilament light chain, glial fibrillary acidic 
protein, secreted phosphoprotein 1, placental growth factor, triggering receptor 
expressed on myeloid cells 2, cluster of differentiation 163, proteomics, and 
microRNA. Identifying and staging CAA even before its consequences can be 
detected via neuroimaging are critical to allow clinicians to judiciously select 
appropriate candidates for AATs, stratify monitoring, properly manage 
therapeutic regimens for those experiencing symptomatic ARIAs, and optimize the 
treatment to achieve the best outcomes. Future studies can test potential plasma 
biomarkers in human beings and evaluate predictive values of individual markers 
for CAA severity.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm14041070
PMCID: PMC11856447
PMID: 40004604

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
report.


66. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Feb 17;26(4):1710. doi: 10.3390/ijms26041710.

Enhancing Galantamine Distribution in Rat Brain Using Microplasma-Assisted 
Nose-to-Brain Drug Delivery.

Sadiq AH(1), Alam MJ(2), Begum F(2), Hasan M(1), Kristof J(3), Mamun MA(4), 
Maniruzzaman M(4), Shimizu K(5), Kanazawa T(6), Kahyo T(4), Setou M(4), Shimizu 
K(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Science and Technology, Shizuoka University, Johoku, 
Chuo-ku, Hamamatsu 432-8561, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Medical Photonics, Shizuoka University, Johoku, Chuo-ku, 
Hamamatsu 432-8561, Japan.
(3)Organization for Innovation and Social Collaboration, Shizuoka University, 
Johoku, Chuo-ku, Hamamatsu 432-8561, Japan.
(4)Department of Cellular and Molecular Anatomy, Hamamatsu University School of 
Medicine, Handayama, Chuo-ku, Hamamatsu 431-3192, Japan.
(5)Nanotheranostics Laboratory, Division of Innovative Diagnostic and 
Therapeutic Research, Institute of Photonics Medicine, Hamamatsu University 
School of Medicine, Handayama, Chuo-ku, Hamamatsu 431-3192, Japan.
(6)Graduate School of Biomedical Science, Tokushima University, Shoumachi, 
Tokushima 770-8505, Japan.

Nose-to-brain (N2B) drug delivery is a promising technique for the treatment of 
brain diseases. It allows a drug to enter the brain without passing through the 
blood-brain barrier. However, the nasal cavity and nasal mucosa can restrict the 
amount of drug absorbed. Recent studies of non-thermal plasma (NTP) have shown 
improvement in in vitro drug delivery to cells and tissues. However, whether NTP 
treatments can enhance the in vivo delivery of drugs for neurodegenerative 
disease like Alzheimer's disease (AD) into the brain via the N2B technique 
remains unclear. The drug used in this study was galantamine hydrobromide. 
Galantamine is used to treat patients with mild to moderate AD. Based on the 
principle of NTP, a type of dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) plasma, which we 
called spiral DBD microplasma, was designed. It was inserted into the nose of a 
rat to a depth of 2 mm. The spiral DBD microplasma was driven by a sinusoidal 
voltage for 4 min, followed by the immediate administration of galantamine. The 
effect of the microplasma treatment on the distribution of galantamine in the 
brain was evaluated using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-imaging 
mass spectrometry (MALDI-IMS). The results showed a high distribution of 
galantamine in the left and right brain hemispheres of the rat treated with 
plasma discharge compared to a control treated without plasma discharge. The 
spiral DBD microplasma is a novel contribution to DBD plasma designs. In 
addition, this technique for drug delivery has also created a novel approach 
with potential for becoming a non-invasive method of enhancing drug distribution 
in the brain for the treatment of neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26041710
PMCID: PMC11855811
PMID: 40004175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There is no conflict of interest to declare in 
this study. The funders had no role in the design of the study, in the 
collection, analyses, interpretation of data, in the writing of the manuscript, 
or in the decision to publish the result.


67. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Feb 16;26(4):1681. doi: 10.3390/ijms26041681.

Graph and Multi-Level Sequence Fusion Learning for Predicting the Molecular 
Activity of BACE-1 Inhibitors.

Zheng S(1), Zhang C(1), Chen Y(1), Chen M(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Physics and Information Engineering, Fuzhou University, Fuzhou 
350108, China.
(2)College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Fujian University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou 350122, China.

The development of BACE-1 (β-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1) 
inhibitors is a crucial focus in exploring early treatments for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Recently, graph neural networks (GNNs) have demonstrated 
significant advantages in predicting molecular activity. However, their reliance 
on graph structures alone often neglects explicit sequence-level semantic 
information. To address this limitation, we proposed a Graph and multi-level 
Sequence Fusion Learning (GSFL) model for predicting the molecular activity of 
BACE-1 inhibitors. Firstly, molecular graph structures generated from SMILES 
strings were encoded using GNNs with an atomic-level characteristic attention 
mechanism. Next, substrings at functional group, ion level, and atomic level 
substrings were extracted from SMILES strings and encoded using a 
BiLSTM-Transformer framework equipped with a hierarchical attention mechanism. 
Finally, these features were fused to predict the activity of BACE-1 inhibitors. 
A dataset of 1548 compounds with BACE-1 activity measurements was curated from 
the ChEMBL database. In the classification experiment, the model achieved an 
accuracy of 0.941 on the training set and 0.877 on the test set. For the test 
set, it delivered a sensitivity of 0.852, a specificity of 0.894, a MCC of 
0.744, an F1-score of 0.872, a PRC of 0.869, and an AUC of 0.915. Compared to 
traditional computer-aided drug design methods and other machine learning 
algorithms, the proposed model can effectively improve the accuracy of the 
molecular activity prediction of BACE-1 inhibitors and has a potential 
application value.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26041681
PMCID: PMC11855840
PMID: 40004143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


68. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Feb 14;26(4):1617. doi: 10.3390/ijms26041617.

Exploring Potential Medications for Alzheimer's Disease with Psychosis by 
Integrating Drug Target Information into Deep Learning Models: A Data-Driven 
Approach.

Miranda O(1), Jiang C(1), Qi X(1), Kofler J(2)(3), Sweet RA(3)(4), Wang L(1).

Author information:
(1)Computational Chemical Genomics Screening Center, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
(2)Division of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
(3)Alzheimer Disease Research Center, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.

Approximately 50% of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients develop psychotic 
symptoms, leading to a subtype known as psychosis in AD (AD + P), which is 
associated with accelerated cognitive decline compared to AD without psychosis. 
Currently, no FDA-approved medication specifically addresses AD + P. This study 
aims to improve psychosis predictions and identify potential therapeutic agents 
using the DeepBiomarker deep learning model by incorporating drug-target 
interactions. Electronic health records from the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center were analyzed to predict psychosis within three months of AD 
diagnosis. AD + P patients were classified as those with either a formal 
psychosis diagnosis or antipsychotic prescriptions post-AD diagnosis. Two 
approaches were employed as follows: (1) a drug-focused method using individual 
medications and (2) a target-focused method pooling medications by shared 
targets. The updated DeepBiomarker model achieved an area under the receiver 
operating curve (AUROC) above 0.90 for psychosis prediction. A drug-focused 
analysis identified gabapentin, amlodipine, levothyroxine, and others as 
potentially beneficial. A target-focused analysis highlighted significant 
proteins, including integrins, calcium channels, and tyrosine hydroxylase, 
confirming several medications linked to these targets. Integrating drug-target 
information into predictive models improves the identification of medications 
for AD + P risk reduction, offering a promising strategy for therapeutic 
development.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26041617
PMCID: PMC11855865
PMID: 40004081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


69. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Feb 11;26(4):1486. doi: 10.3390/ijms26041486.

L-Lactate Administration Improved Synaptic Plasticity and Cognition in Early 
3xTg-AD Mice.

Wang Y(1), Zhao J(1), Zhao L(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Education, Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness and Exercise, Ministry of Education, 
Beijing Sport University, Beijing 100084, China.

Synaptic plasticity impairment and behavioral deficits constitute classical 
pathological hallmarks in early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). Emerging 
evidence suggests these synaptic dysfunctions may stem from metabolic 
dysregulation, particularly impaired aerobic glycolysis. As a key product of 
astrocyte-mediated aerobic glycolysis, lactate serves dual roles as both an 
energy substrate and a signaling molecule, playing a critical regulatory role in 
synaptic plasticity and long-term memory formation. This study investigated 
whether exogenous L-lactate supplementation could ameliorate synaptic 
dysfunction and cognitive deficits in early-stage AD models. Our findings reveal 
significant reductions in hippocampal lactate levels in experimental AD mice. 
Systemic administration of L-lactate (200 mg/kg) effectively restored 
physiological lactate concentrations in both hippocampal tissue and 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Chronic L-lactate treatment significantly improved 
spatial learning and memory performance in behavioral assessments. 
Electrophysiological recordings demonstrated that either acute bath application 
of L-lactate (2 mM) to hippocampal slices or chronic intraperitoneal 
administration enhanced high-frequency stimulation (HFS)-induced long-term 
potentiation (LTP) magnitude in 3xTg-AD mice. Ultrastructural analysis revealed 
that L-lactate treatment enhanced synaptic density and improved morphological 
features of hippocampal synapses. At the molecular level, L-lactate 
administration upregulated synaptic marker synaptophysin (SYP) expression while 
downregulating activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein (ARC) levels 
in AD mice. These multimodal findings demonstrate that exogenous L-lactate 
supplementation effectively restores synaptic plasticity and cognitive function 
in early-stage 3xTg-AD mice through concurrent improvements at behavioral, 
structural, and molecular levels.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26041486
PMCID: PMC11855780
PMID: 40003952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


70. Biomedicines. 2025 Feb 11;13(2):432. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13020432.

Neuroprotective Effects of Dehydroepiandrosterone Sulphate Against Aβ Toxicity 
and Accumulation in Cellular and Animal Model of Alzheimer's Disease.

Vuic B(1), Milos T(1), Kvak E(2), Konjevod M(1), Tudor L(1), Farkas S(2), Nedic 
Erjavec G(1), Nikolac Perkovic M(1), Zelena D(2), Svob Strac D(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Neuropsychiatry, Ruder Boskovic Institute, Division 
of Molecular Medicine, Bijenicka cesta 54, 10 000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Laboratory of Behavioural and Stress Studies, Institute of Physiology, 
Medical School, University of Pécs, 7624 Pécs, Hungary.

Background/Objectives: Beneficial effects of neurosteroid dehydroepiandrosterone 
sulphate (DHEAS) on cognition, emotions and behavior have been previously 
reported, suggesting its potential in the prevention and treatment of various 
neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). This study aimed to investigate the potential neuroprotective actions of 
DHEAS against Aβ toxicity in both cellular and animal models of AD. Methods: 
After optimizing the AD model in vitro, we investigated the DHEAS effects on the 
viability and death of primary mouse neurons exposed to toxic Aβ42 oligomers for 
24 h. In order to extend our research to an in vivo study, we further tested the 
acute effects of intraperitoneal DHEAS administration on the Aβ plaque density 
in different brain regions of 3xTg-AD mice, an animal model of AD. Results: In 
cell culture, DHEAS hampered the decrease in the neuronal viability caused by 
toxic Aβ oligomers, primarily by influencing mitochondrial function and 
apoptosis. DHEAS also counteracted the increase in the mRNA expression of 
selected genes (PI3K, Akt, Bcl2, Bax), induced in neuronal culture by treatment 
with Aβ42 oligomers. Obtained data suggested the involvement of mitochondria, 
caspases 3 and 7, as well as the PI3K/Akt and Bcl2 signaling network in the 
antiapoptotic properties of DHEAS in neurons. Forty-eight hours after DHEAS 
treatment, a significantly lower number of Aβ plaques was observed in the motor 
cortex but not in other brain areas of 3xTg-AD mice. Conclusions: Results 
indicated potential neuroprotective effects of DHEAS against Aβ toxicity and 
accumulation, suggesting that DHEAS supplementation should be further studied as 
a novel option for AD prevention and/or treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13020432
PMCID: PMC11853520
PMID: 40002846

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


71. Biomedicines. 2025 Jan 31;13(2):327. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13020327.

Mitochondrial Dysfunction in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Mechanisms and 
Corresponding Therapeutic Strategies.

Meng K(1), Jia H(2), Hou X(2), Zhu Z(2), Lu Y(2), Feng Y(2), Feng J(3), Xia 
Y(4), Tan R(5), Cui F(6), Yuan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Lin He's Academician Workstation of New Medicine and Clinical Translation, 
Jining Medical University, Jining 272067, China.
(2)College of Clinical Medicine, Jining Medical University, Jining 272067, 
China.
(3)College of Medical Imaging and Laboratory, Jining Medical University, Jining 
272067, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Precision Oncology of Shandong Higher Education, Institute 
of Precision Medicine, Jining Medical University, Jining 272067, China.
(5)College of Basic Medical, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou 221004, China.
(6)Educational Institute of Behavioral Medicine, Jining Medical University, 
Jining 272067, China.

Neurodegenerative disease (ND) refers to the progressive loss and morphological 
abnormalities of neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) or peripheral 
nervous system (PNS). Examples of neurodegenerative diseases include Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). 
Recent studies have shown that mitochondria play a broad role in cell signaling, 
immune response, and metabolic regulation. For example, mitochondrial 
dysfunction is closely associated with the onset and progression of a variety of 
diseases, including ND, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, and cancer. The 
dysfunction of energy metabolism, imbalance of mitochondrial dynamics, or 
abnormal mitophagy can lead to the imbalance of mitochondrial homeostasis, which 
can induce pathological reactions such as oxidative stress, apoptosis, and 
inflammation, damage the nervous system, and participate in the occurrence and 
development of degenerative nervous system diseases such as AD, PD, and ALS. In 
this paper, the latest research progress of this subject is detailed. The 
mechanisms of oxidative stress, mitochondrial homeostasis, and 
mitophagy-mediated ND are reviewed from the perspectives of β-amyloid (Aβ) 
accumulation, dopamine neuron damage, and superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) 
mutation. Based on the mechanism research, new ideas and methods for the 
treatment and prevention of ND are proposed.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13020327
PMCID: PMC11852430
PMID: 40002740

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


72. Biomedicines. 2025 Jan 24;13(2):283. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13020283.

Non-Invasive Retinal Biomarkers for Early Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease.

Kaštelan S(1)(2), Gverović Antunica A(3), Puzović V(4), Didović Pavičić A(5), 
Čanović S(5)(6), Kovačević P(7), Vučemilović PAF(5), Konjevoda S(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Zagreb, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Clinical Hospital Dubrava, 10000 Zagreb, 
Croatia.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, General Hospital Dubrovnik, 20000 Dubrovnik, 
Croatia.
(4)Department of Pathology, General Hospital Dubrovnik, 20000 Dubrovnik, 
Croatia.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Zadar General Hospital, 23000 Zadar, Croatia.
(6)Department of Health Studies, University of Zadar, 23000 Zadar, Croatia.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Center Zagreb, 10000 Zagreb, 
Croatia.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder of the 
brain associated with ageing and is the most prevalent form of dementia, 
affecting an estimated 55 million people worldwide, with projections suggesting 
this number will exceed 150 million by 2050. With its increasing prevalence, AD 
represents a significant global health challenge with potentially serious social 
and economic consequences. Diagnosing AD is particularly challenging as it 
requires timely recognition. Currently, there is no effective therapy for AD; 
however, certain medications may help slow its progression. Existing diagnostic 
methods such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), 
positron emission tomography (PET), and biomarker analysis in cerebrospinal 
fluid tend to be expensive and invasive, making them impractical for widespread 
use. Consequently, research into non-invasive biomarkers that enable early 
detection and screening for AD is a crucial area of contemporary clinical 
investigation. One promising approach for the early diagnosis of AD may be 
retinal imaging. As an extension of the central nervous system, the retina 
offers a distinctive opportunity for non-invasive brain structure and function 
assessment. Considering their shared embryological origins and the vascular and 
immunological similarities between the eye and brain, alterations in the retina 
may indicate pathological changes in the brain, including those specifically 
related to AD. Studies suggest that structural and vascular changes in the 
retina, particularly within the neuronal network and blood vessels, may act as 
markers of cerebral changes caused by AD. These retinal alterations have the 
potential to act as biomarkers for early diagnosis. Since AD is typically 
diagnosed only after a significant neuronal loss has occurred, identifying early 
diagnostic markers could enable timely intervention and help prevent disease 
progression. Non-invasive retinal imaging techniques, such as optical coherence 
tomography (OCT) and OCT angiography, provide accessible methods for the early 
detection of changes linked to AD. This review article focuses on the potential 
of retinal imaging as a non-invasive biomarker for early diagnosis of AD. 
Investigating the ageing of the retina and its connections to neurodegenerative 
processes could significantly enhance the diagnosis, monitoring, and treatment 
of AD, paving the way for new diagnostic and therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13020283
PMCID: PMC11852429
PMID: 40002697

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


73. Biomedicines. 2025 Jan 23;13(2):279. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13020279.

Beyond Amyloid and Tau: The Critical Role of Microglia in Alzheimer's Disease 
Therapeutics.

Dias D(1)(2), Socodato R(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)i3S-Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
4099-022 Porto, Portugal.
(2)ESS-Escola Superior de Saúde do Politécnico do Porto, 4200-072 Porto, 
Portugal.
(3)IBMC-Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular, 4200-135 Porto, Portugal.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is traditionally viewed through the lens of the amyloid 
cascade hypothesis, implicating amyloid-beta and tau protein aggregates as the 
main pathological culprits. However, burgeoning research points to the brain's 
resident immune cells, microglia, as critical players in AD pathogenesis, 
progression, and potential therapeutic interventions. This review examines the 
dynamic roles of microglia within the intricate framework of AD. We detail the 
involvement of these immune cells in neuroinflammation, explaining how their 
activation and response fluctuations may influence the disease trajectory. We 
further elucidate the complex relationship between microglia and amyloid-beta 
pathology. This study highlights the dual nature of these cells, which 
contribute to both aggregation and clearance of the amyloid-beta protein. 
Moreover, an in-depth analysis of the interplay between microglia and tau 
unveils the significant, yet often overlooked, impact of this interaction on 
neurodegeneration in AD. Shifting from the conventional therapeutic approaches, 
we assess the current AD treatments primarily targeting amyloid and tau and 
introduce novel strategies that involve manipulating microglial functions. These 
innovative methods herald a potential paradigm shift in the management of AD. 
Finally, we explore the burgeoning field of precision diagnosis and the pursuit 
of robust AD biomarkers. We underline how a more profound comprehension of 
microglial biology could enrich these essential areas, potentially paving the 
way for more accurate diagnostic tools and tailored treatment strategies. In 
conclusion, this review expands on the conventional perspective of AD pathology 
and treatment, drawing attention to the multifaceted roles of microglia. As we 
continue to enhance our understanding of these cells, microglial-focused 
therapeutic interventions emerge as a promising frontier to bolster our arsenal 
to fight against AD.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13020279
PMCID: PMC11852436
PMID: 40002692

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


74. Diagnostics (Basel). 2025 Feb 12;15(4):448. doi: 10.3390/diagnostics15040448.

Early Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease in Human Participants Using EEGConformer 
and Attention-Based LSTM During the Short Question Task.

Kim SK(1)(2), Kim JB(3), Kim H(3), Kim L(1)(4), Kim SH(2).

Author information:
(1)Bionics Research Center, Korea Institute of Science and Technology, Seoul 
02792, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Brain and Cognitive Engineering, Korea University, Seoul 02841, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Korea University Anam Hospital, Korea University 
College of Medicine, Seoul 02841, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of HY-KIST Bio-Convergence, Hanyang University, Seoul 04763, 
Republic of Korea.

Background/Objectives: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive 
neurodegenerative disorder advancing through subjective cognitive decline (SCD), 
mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and dementia, making early diagnosis crucial. 
Electroencephalography (EEG) is a non-invasive, cost-effective alternative to 
advanced neuroimaging for detecting early neural changes. While most studies 
focus on resting-state EEG or handcrafted features with traditional machine 
learning, deep learning (DL) offers a promising tool for automated EEG analysis. 
This study classified the AD spectrum (SCD, MCI, AD) using EEG recorded during 
resting-state and task-based conditions. Specifically, EEG was recorded during a 
simple yes/no question-answering task, mimicking everyday cognitive activities, 
and was explored. We hypothesized that brain activity during tasks involving 
listening, comprehension, and response execution provides diagnostic insights. 
Methods: We collected 1 min of resting-state EEG and approximately 3 min of 
task-based EEG from 20, 28, and 10 participants with SCD, MCI, and AD, 
respectively. Task data included response accuracy and reaction time. After 
minimal preprocessing, two DL models, attention long short-term memory and 
EEGConformer, were used for binary (e.g., SCD vs. MCI) and three-class (SCD, 
MCI, AD) classification. Results: Task-based EEG outperformed resting-state EEG, 
with a 5-15% improvement in accuracy. The area under the curve (AUC) results 
consistently demonstrated superior classification performance for task-based EEG 
compared to resting-state EEG across all group distinctions. No significant 
performance difference was observed between the two DL models. Conclusions: We 
proposed a cognitive task-based approach for early AD spectrum diagnosis via 
EEG, offering greater accuracy by leveraging advanced DL models.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics15040448
PMCID: PMC11854461
PMID: 40002598

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


75. Brain Sci. 2025 Feb 19;15(2):215. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15020215.

Cholinesterase Inhibitors from Plants and Their Potential in Alzheimer's 
Treatment: Systematic Review.

ALNasser MN(1), Alboraiy GM(1), Alsowig EM(1), Alqattan FM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, College of Science, King Faisal 
University, P.O. Box No. 400, Al-Ahsa 31982, Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by memory loss and cognitive decline, primarily due to dysfunction 
of acetylcholine caused by acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase. While 
synthetic cholinesterase inhibitors like donepezil, rivastigmine, and 
galantamine are commonly used, they have notable side effects, prompting 
interest in natural alternatives. Medicinal plants, rich in bioactive compounds 
like flavonoids and alkaloids, have shown potential as cholinesterase inhibitors 
with additional antioxidants and anti-inflammatory benefits. This study aimed to 
evaluate the cholinesterase-inhibiting effects of various plant species and 
their compounds to identify new therapeutic candidates and reduce side effects.
METHOD: A PRISMA-compliant review was conducted, screening studies from multiple 
databases, with a final inclusion of 64 in vivo studies.
RESULTS: These studies highlighted plant extracts such as Ferula ammoniacum, 
Elaeagnus umbellata, Bacopa monnieri, and Centella asiatica, which improved 
memory, reduced oxidative stress, and provided neuroprotection. Some extracts 
also reduced amyloid plaques, enhanced neuronal integrity, and restored 
cholinesterase activity, indicating their potential as therapeutic agents for AD 
and other neurodegenerative diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings underscore the promise of plant-based compounds in 
treating cognitive decline and cholinergic dysfunction in AD, advocating for 
further research into their therapeutic potential.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15020215
PMCID: PMC11852592
PMID: 40002547

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


76. Brain Sci. 2025 Feb 7;15(2):164. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15020164.

Effect of N-Acetyl Cysteine as an Adjuvant Treatment in Alzheimer's Disease.

Lomelí Martínez SM(1)(2)(3)(4), Pacheco Moisés FP(5), Bitzer-Quintero OK(6), 
Ramírez-Jirano J(6), Delgado-Lara DLC(7), Cortés Trujillo I(1), Torres Jasso 
JH(8), Salazar-Flores J(1), Torres-Sánchez ED(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Life Sciences, Cienega University Center, 
University of Guadalajara, Ocotlan 47820, Jalisco, Mexico.
(2)Periodontics Specialty Program, Department of Integrated Dentistry Clinics, 
University Center for Health Sciences, University of Guadalajara, Guadalajara 
44340, Jalisco, Mexico.
(3)Institute of Research in Dentistry, Department of Integral Dental Clinics, 
University Center for Health Sciences, University of Guadalajara, Guadalajara 
44340, Jalisco, Mexico.
(4)Public Health, Department of Wellbeing and Sustainable Development, Northern 
University Center, University of Guadalajara, Colotlán 46200, Jalisco, Mexico.
(5)Chemistry Department, University Center of Exact Sciences and Engineering, 
University of Guadalajara, Guadalajara 44430, Jalisco, Mexico.
(6)Neurosciences Division, Western Biomedical Research Center, Mexican Social 
Security Institute, IMSS, Guadalajara 44340, Jalisco, Mexico.
(7)Departamento Académico de Formación Universitaria, Ciencias de la Salud, 
Universidad Autónoma de Guadalajara, Zapopan 45129, Jalisco, Mexico.
(8)Department of Biological Sciences, University Center of the Coast, University 
of Guadalajara, Puerto Vallarta 48280, Jalisco, Mexico.

Oxidative stress levels are exacerbated in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This 
phenomenon feeds back into the overactivation of oxidase enzymes, mitochondrial 
dysfunction, and the formation of advanced glycation end-products (AGEs), with 
the stimulation of their receptors (RAGE). These factors stimulate Aβ peptide 
aggregation and tau hyperphosphorylation through multiple pathways, which are 
addressed in this paper. The aim of this study was to evaluate the regulatory 
effect of N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) on oxidant/antioxidant balance as an adjuvant 
treatment in patients with AD. The results obtained showed that NAC 
supplementation produced improved cognitive performance, decreased levels of 
oxidative stress markers, lowered activities of oxidase enzymes, increased 
antioxidant responses, and attenuated inflammatory and apoptotic markers. 
Moreover, NAC reversed mitochondrial dysfunction, lowered AGEs-RAGE formation, 
attenuated Aβ peptide oligomerization, and reduced phosphorylation of tau, 
thereby halting the formation of neurofibrillary tangles and the progression of 
AD.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15020164
PMCID: PMC11852533
PMID: 40002497

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


77. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Jan 21;14(2):123. doi: 10.3390/antiox14020123.

Discovery of Effective Inhibitors Against Phosphodiesterase 9, a Potential 
Therapeutic Target of Alzheimer's Disease with Antioxidant Capacities.

Zhou Q(1), Wu XN(2), Luo WH(1), Huang QH(2), Feng LL(2), Wu Y(2), Zhang C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Guangdong Pharmaceutical 
University, Zhongshan 528458, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Anti-Infective Drug Discovery and Development, School 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a widely recognized type of dementia that leads to 
progressive cognitive decline and memory loss, affecting a significant number of 
people and their families worldwide. Given the multifactorial nature of AD, 
multitarget-directed ligands (MTDLs) hold promise in developing effective drugs 
for AD. Phosphodiesterase-9 (PDE9) is emerging as a promising target for AD 
therapy. In this study, by combining a PDE9 inhibitor C33 with the antioxidant 
melatonin, we designed and discovered a series of pyrazolopyrimidinone 
derivatives that simultaneously inhibit PDE9 and possess antioxidant activities. 
Molecular docking, together with dynamics simulations, were applied to 
accelerate compound design and reduce synthetic work. Four out of the 14 
compounds were validated as effective PDE9 inhibitors with comparable 
antioxidant activity. Notably, compounds 17b and 17d demonstrated IC50 values of 
91 and 89 nM against PDE9, respectively, with good antioxidant activities (ORAC 
(Trolox) of 2.00 and 2.60). This work provides a new approach for designing 
MTDLs for the treatment of AD and offers insights for further structural 
modifications of PDE9 inhibitors with antioxidant capacities.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14020123
PMCID: PMC11852235
PMID: 40002310

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


78. Behav Sci (Basel). 2025 Feb 15;15(2):219. doi: 10.3390/bs15020219.

Τhe Greek Version of the Marwit-Meuser Caregiver Grief Inventory (MM-CGI) and 
MM-CGI Short Form (MM-CGI-SF): An Examination of Their Psychometric Properties 
in Family Caregivers of Persons with Dementia Before Death.

Tsigkou E(1)(2), Tsironi KA(2), Papantoniou G(3)(4), Sofologi M(3), Kougioumtzis 
G(5)(6), Katsouri IG(7), Moraitou D(4)(8), Tsolaki M(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Neurosciences and Neurodegenerative Diseases Postgraduate Course, Medical 
School, Faculty of Health Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Department of Caregiver's Support, Greek Association of Alzheimer's Disease 
and Related Disorders (GAADRD), 54643 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(3)Laboratory of Psychology, Department of Early Childhood Education, School of 
Education, University of Ioannina, 45110 Ioannina, Greece.
(4)Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Center for Interdisciplinary 
Research and Innovation (CIRI-AUTH), Balkan Center, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, 10th km Thessaloniki-Thermi, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(5)Department of Turkish Studies and Modern Asian Studies, Faculty of Economic 
and Political Sciences, National Kapodistrian University of Athens, 15772 
Athens, Greece.
(6)Department of Psychology, School of Health Sciences, Neapolis University 
Pafos, 8042 Pafos, Cyprus.
(7)Department of Occupational Therapy, University of West Attica, 12241 Athens, 
Greece.
(8)Laboratory of Psychology, Section of Cognition, Brain and Behavior, School of 
Psychology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.

Family caregivers of dementia patients experience grief, not only after the 
death of the patient, but also during the course of the disease. The aim of the 
present study was to examine the psychometric properties of the Greek version 
(full and short) of the Marwit-Meuser Caregiver Grief Inventory (MM-CGI and 
MM-CGI Short Form) before death in a sample of Greek caregivers of persons with 
dementia. In particular, the study attempts to test the internal consistency 
reliability as well as the structural and convergent validity of the inventory. 
The inventory was administered to 515 family caregivers (offsprings and spouses) 
along with a socio-demographic information form, the Zarit Burden Interview 
(ZBI), the Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI-II), and the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE) exploratively to a subset of dementia patients cared for by 
survey participants. The application of confirmatory factor analyses revealed a 
slightly different structure of the Greek version of the MM-CGI, but they fully 
verified the structure of the Greek version of the MM-CGI-SF. Both the internal 
consistency reliability and the convergent validity of the subscales of the 
Greek version of the MM-CGI-SF were good. The findings of the present study 
indicate that the short version of the Marwit-Meuser Caregiver Grief Inventory 
is a reliable and valid tool for the early assessment of aspects of grief among 
the Greek population of family caregivers of dementia patients, in order to 
potentiate the prevention of their depression and anxiety.

DOI: 10.3390/bs15020219
PMCID: PMC11851678
PMID: 40001850

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


79. Biomolecules. 2025 Feb 4;15(2):225. doi: 10.3390/biom15020225.

Inositol Phosphates and Synthesizing Enzymes: Implications in Neurodegenerative 
Disorders.

Onu CJ(1), Adu M(1), Chakkour M(1), Kumar V(1), Greenberg ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI 48202, 
USA.

Inositol is a vital sugar molecule involved in numerous signaling pathways 
required for cellular homeostasis and cell survival. Myo-inositol and its 
phospho-derivatives, inositol phosphates (IPs), are the most prevalent forms of 
inositol found in living cells. They are involved in regulating ion channels, 
metabolic flux, stress response, and other key biological processes. While 
emerging research has highlighted the significant roles of inositol phosphates 
in immunity, cancer, and metabolic diseases, there is a lack of comprehensive 
reviews on their roles in psychiatric and neurological disorders. This review 
aims to fill that gap by analyzing the existing literature on the importance of 
inositol phosphates in severe psychiatric and neurological conditions such as 
Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, bipolar disorder, amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis, schizophrenia, and Huntington's disease, underscoring the potential 
to pave the way for new treatment regimens for these debilitating disorders 
targeting inositol pathways.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15020225
PMCID: PMC11853280
PMID: 40001529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


80. Biomolecules. 2025 Feb 3;15(2):219. doi: 10.3390/biom15020219.

A Neuroprotective Peptide Modulates Retinal cAMP Response Element-Binding 
Protein (CREB), Synapsin I (SYN1), and Growth-Associated Protein 43 (GAP43) in 
Rats with Silicone Oil-Induced Ocular Hypertension.

Johnson GA(1)(2), Krishnamoorthy RR(1)(3), Nagaraj RH(4), Stankowska DL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)North Texas Eye Research Institute, College of Biomedical and Translational 
Sciences, University of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX 76107, 
USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Genetics, College of Biomedical 
and Translational Sciences, University of North Texas Health Science Center, 
Fort Worth, TX 76107, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, College of Biomedical and 
Translational Sciences, University of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort 
Worth, TX 76107, USA.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Anschutz Medical Campus, 
University of Colorado, Aurora, CO 80045, USA.

This study evaluated the neuroprotective potential of peptain-1 conjugated to a 
cell-penetrating peptide (CPP-P1) in an ocular hypertension model of glaucoma. 
Brown Norway (BN) rats were subjected to intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation 
via intracameral injection of silicone oil (SO), with concurrent intravitreal 
injections of either CPP-P1 or a vehicle. Retinal cross-sections were analyzed 
for markers of neuroprotection, including cAMP response element-binding protein 
(CREB), phosphorylated CREB (p-CREB), growth-associated protein-43 (GAP43), 
synapsin-1 (SYN1), and superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2). Hematoxylin and eosin 
staining was used to assess retinal-layer thickness. SO-treated rats exhibited 
significant reductions in the thickness of the inner nuclear layer (INL, 41%, p 
= 0.016), inner plexiform layer (IPL, 52%, p = 0.0002), and ganglion cell layer 
(GCL, 57%, p = 0.001). CPP-P1 treatment mitigated these reductions, preserving 
INL thickness by 32% (p = 0.059), IPL by 19% (p = 0.119), and GCL by 31% (p = 
0.057). Increased levels of CREB (p = 0.17) and p-CREB (p = 0.04) were observed 
in IOP-elevated, CPP-P1-treated retinas compared to IOP-elevated, 
vehicle-treated retinas. Although overall GAP43 levels were low, there was a 
modest increase in expression within the IPL and GCL in SO- and CPP-P1-treated 
retinas (p = 0.15 and p = 0.09, respectively) compared to SO- and 
vehicle-treated retinas. SO injection reduced SYN1 expression in both IPL and 
GCL (p = 0.01), whereas CPP-P1 treatment significantly increased SYN1 levels in 
the IPL (p = 0.03) and GCL (p = 0.002). While SOD2 expression in the GCL was 
minimal across all groups, a trend toward increased expression was observed in 
CPP-P1-treated animals (p = 0.16). The SO model was replicated with SO removal 
after 7 days and monitored for 21 days followed by retinal flat-mount 
preparation to assess retinal ganglion cell (RGC) survival. A 42% loss in RGCs 
(p = 0.009) was observed in SO-injected eyes, which were reduced by 
approximately 37% (p = 0.03) with CPP-P1 treatment. These findings suggest that 
CPP-P1 is a promising neuroprotective agent that promotes retinal ganglion cell 
survival and the preservation of other retinal neurons, potentially through 
enhanced CREB signaling in a rat model of SO-induced ocular hypertension.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15020219
PMCID: PMC11852426
PMID: 40001522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CPP-P1 technology to treat eye diseases has been 
licensed to Eyegenex, Inc., from the University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, 80045. 
R.H.N. is the Chief Scientific Advisor to Eyegenex, Inc. The authors declare no 
other conflicts of interest.


81. Biomolecules. 2025 Jan 26;15(2):179. doi: 10.3390/biom15020179.

Gintonin Binds to Reduced LPA4 Receptor Subtype in Human Cortical Neurons in 
Alzheimer's Disease Brains.

Kim KS(1)(2), Lee R(3), Park I(2), Hwang SH(4), Kim Y(5), Jang JW(5), Kim HS(6), 
Choi SM(7), Kim SJ(8)(9), Cho HJ(10), Cho IH(11), Kim JH(12), Kim DG(2), Nah 
SY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain Sciences, Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of Science and 
Technology (DGIST), Daegu 42988, Republic of Korea.
(2)Neuroimmunology Laboratory, Dementia Research Group, Korea Brain Research 
Institute, Daegu 41062, Republic of Korea.
(3)Ginsentology Research Laboratory, Department of Physiology, College of 
Veterinary Medicine, Konkuk University, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering, College of Health Sciences, Sangji 
University, Wonju 26339, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Kangwon National University Hospital, Chuncheon 
24289, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Chonnam National University Medical School, 
Research Institute of Medical Sciences, Gwangju 61469, Republic of Korea.
(7)Department of Neurology, Chonnam National University Medical School, 
Jebong-ro, Gwangju 61469, Republic of Korea.
(8)Department of Neurology, Busan Paik Hospital, Inje University College of 
Medicine, Busan 47392, Republic of Korea.
(9)Dementia and Neurodegenerative Disease Research Center, Inje University, 
Busan 47392, Republic of Korea.
(10)Busan & Gyeongnam Reference Laboratory, Department of Pathology, Seegene 
Medical Foundation, Busan 48792, Republic of Korea.
(11)Department of Convergence Medical Science, College of Korean Medicine, Kyung 
Hee University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea.
(12)College of Veterinary Medicine, Biosafety Research Institute, Chonbuk 
National University, Iksan-City 54596, Republic of Korea.

Ginseng, a traditional herbal medicine with a long history of use, is known to 
support human health, particularly by influencing brain function. Recent studies 
have identified gintonin, a lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) receptor ligand derived 
from ginseng, as a key bioactive. However, the specific LPA receptor subtypes 
targeted by gintonin in the human brain to exert its anti-Alzheimer's (AD) 
effects remain unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the LPA receptor subtype 
targeted by gintonin in the human cortex. Using a fluorescent gintonin 
conjugate, we investigated receptor binding in cortical samples from healthy 
individuals (n = 4) and AD patients (n = 4). Our results demonstrated that 
fluorescent gintonin selectively binds to human cortical neurons rather than 
glial cells and that gintonin-binding sites are co-localized with the LPA4 
receptor subtype. Furthermore, the expression of LPA4 receptors was 
significantly reduced in the cortical neurons of AD patients. These results 
suggest that the LPA4 receptor may serve as a novel histopathological marker for 
AD and represent a promising therapeutic target for gintonin-based prevention 
and treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15020179
PMCID: PMC11853258
PMID: 40001482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


82. J Neuroinflammation. 2025 Feb 25;22(1):50. doi: 10.1186/s12974-025-03357-y.

25-Hydroxycholesterol modulates microglial function and exacerbates Alzheimer's 
disease pathology: mechanistic insights and therapeutic potential of cholesterol 
esterification inhibition.

Choi H(#)(1)(2), Kim HJ(#)(2), Lee SE(3), Song HH(4), Kim J(1), Han J(1), Jeong 
JH(1), Lee DY(4), Chang S(3), Mook-Jung I(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, 
Seoul National University, Seoul, 03080, Republic of Korea.
(2)Convergence Dementia Research Center, Medical Research Center, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, 03080, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Physiology and Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, Seoul 
National University, Seoul, 03080, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Center for Food and Bioconvergence, 
Research Institute for Agricultural and Life Sciences, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, 03080, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, 
Seoul National University, Seoul, 03080, Republic of Korea. inhee@snu.ac.kr.
(6)Convergence Dementia Research Center, Medical Research Center, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, 03080, Republic of Korea. inhee@snu.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

This study investigates the role of 25-hydroxycholesterol (25HC), a metabolite 
produced by cholesterol hydroxylase encoded by the Ch25h gene, in modulating 
microglial function and its potential implications in Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathology. We demonstrated that 25HC impairs microglial surveillance, reduces 
phagocytic capacity, and increases the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. 
In vivo two-photon microscopy revealed that 25HC administration diminishes 
microglial response to brain lesions, while flow cytometry confirmed reduced 
phagocytosis in both in vivo and in vitro models. Additionally, amyloid-beta 
(Aβ) was shown to upregulate Ch25h expression and elevate 25HC levels in 
microglia, exacerbating these functional impairments. Mechanistically, 25HC was 
found to enhance cholesterol esterification, disrupt cell membrane dynamics, and 
further reduce microglial mobility and phagocytosis. Treatment with Avasimibe, a 
cholesterol esterification inhibitor, restored membrane dynamics and microglial 
function, leading to attenuated AD pathology in a 5XFAD mouse model. These 
findings suggest that 25HC-induced changes in microglial function contribute to 
AD progression, and targeting cholesterol metabolism could offer therapeutic 
potential.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-025-03357-y
PMCID: PMC11863767
PMID: 40001197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


83. BMC Med. 2025 Feb 25;23(1):116. doi: 10.1186/s12916-025-03917-2.

Forecasting total and cause-specific health expenditures for 116 health 
conditions in Norway, 2022-2050.

Kinge JM(1)(2), Øien H(3)(4), Dieleman JL(5), Reme BA(3)(4), Knudsen AKS(6), 
Godager G(3), Selbæk G(7)(8)(9), Frich JC(3), Barış E(5), Murray CJL(5), Vollset 
SE(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. Jonas.minet.kinge@fhi.no.
(2)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Postboks 222 Skøyen, Oslo, 0213, 
Norway. Jonas.minet.kinge@fhi.no.
(3)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Postboks 222 Skøyen, Oslo, 0213, 
Norway.
(5)Department of Health Metrics Sciences and Institute for Health Metrics and 
Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(6)Centre for Disease Burden, Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, 
Norway.
(7)The Norwegian National Centre for Ageing and Health, Vestfold Hospital Trust, 
Tønsberg, Norway.
(8)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(9)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

BACKGROUND: This study forecasts total and cause-specific health expenditures in 
Norway to 2050 and quantifies the contribution of four key drivers-total 
population growth, population aging, changes in disease prevalence, and cost per 
case-on future health care spending.
METHODS: We forecast spending for 116 health conditions in Norway from 2022 to 
2050, using historical and forecasted data of population growth, disease 
prevalence, gross domestic product (GDP), health spending, and residual factors. 
Our analysis included a reference scenario that forecasted disease-specific 
health spending; two alternative scenarios examining the effects of alternative 
unit cost developments; and a scenario examining the consequences of improved 
behavioral and metabolic risk factors.
RESULTS: Health spending increased from 10.6% (95% uncertainty interval, 
10.2-11.1) of GDP in 2022 to 14.3% (13.0-15.7) in 2050 in the reference 
scenario. Among the top aggregate causes of Norwegian health spending in 2022, 
the spending for neurological disorders rose the most, from 1.7% (1.6-1.8) to 
2.7% (2.3-3.1) of GDP, surpassing mental and substance use disorders which rose 
from 2.2% (2.1-2.3) to 2.4% (2.2-2.6) of GDP. Of the 116 single conditions 
analyzed, dementias accounted for the highest spending in 2022. This expenditure 
was forecasted to increase considerably from 1.1% (1.09-1.2) to 1.9% (1.6-2.2) 
of GDP by 2050, largely due to population aging. Spending on other 
old-age-related conditions like falls, stroke, and diabetes, was also forecasted 
to increase. Increased population, aging, and spending per case contributed to 
increased future spending. Reduced behavioral and metabolic risks were 
forecasted to increase the number of elderly persons and reduce age-specific 
disease prevalence but had little impact on forecasted health spending.
CONCLUSIONS: Health spending growth was forecasted regardless of the scenario, 
and Norway needs to plan for this. However, policymakers can curb total spending 
growth, while maintaining health care quality and output, by ensuring more 
efficient allocation and effective use of resources. While the overall impact of 
behavioral and metabolic risk reductions on total healthcare spending was 
modest, reducing risk factors is needed if countries aim to achieve a healthier, 
longer-living population.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12916-025-03917-2
PMCID: PMC11863442
PMID: 40001030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The microdata used for the Norwegian Health Spending Project was 
approved, and participant consent was waived, by the Regional Committee for 
Medical and Health Research Ethics South-East Norway, reference number 184544. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: GS has received 
honoraria for giving lectures at symposia sponsored by Eisai and Eli-Lilly. GS 
had participated at advisory boards for Eisai and Eli-Lilly concerning 
anti-amyloid treatment in Alzheimer’s disease.


84. Nat Commun. 2025 Feb 25;16(1):1965. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-56833-7.

A single-cell atlas to map sex-specific gene-expression changes in blood upon 
neurodegeneration.

Grandke F(1), Fehlmann T(1), Kern F(1)(2), Gate DM(3)(4)(5)(6), Wolff TW(1), 
Leventhal O(3), Channappa D(3), Hirsch P(1), Wilson EN(3), Meese E(7), Liu C(8), 
Shi Q(8), Flotho M(1), Li Y(1)(8), Chen C(8), Yu Y(8), Xu J(8), Junkin M(8), 
Wang Z(8), Wu T(8), Liu L(8), Hou Y(8), Andreasson KI(3)(5)(9), Gansen JS(1), 
Mass E(10), Poston K(3), Wyss-Coray T(11)(12)(13)(14)(15), Keller 
A(16)(17)(18)(19).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Bioinformatics, Saarland University, 66123, Saarbrücken, Germany.
(2)Helmholtz Institute for Pharmaceutical Research Saarland (HIPS)-Helmholtz 
Centre for Infection Re- search (HZI), Saarland University Campus, Saarbrücken, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, 94305, USA.
(4)Veterans Administration Palo Alto Healthcare System, Palo Alto, CA, USA.
(5)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(6)Chemistry, Engineering, and Medicine for Human Health, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Human Genetics, Saarland University, 66421, Homburg/Saar, 
Germany.
(8)MGI Group, San Jose, CA, USA.
(9)Program in Immunology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(10)Life and Medical Sciences Institute, Developmental Biology of the Immune 
System, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(11)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, 94305, USA. twc@stanford.edu.
(12)Veterans Administration Palo Alto Healthcare System, Palo Alto, CA, USA. 
twc@stanford.edu.
(13)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA. 
twc@stanford.edu.
(14)Chemistry, Engineering, and Medicine for Human Health, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA. twc@stanford.edu.
(15)The Phil and Penny Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA. twc@stanford.edu.
(16)Clinical Bioinformatics, Saarland University, 66123, Saarbrücken, Germany. 
andreas.keller@ccb.uni-saarland.de.
(17)Helmholtz Institute for Pharmaceutical Research Saarland (HIPS)-Helmholtz 
Centre for Infection Re- search (HZI), Saarland University Campus, Saarbrücken, 
Germany. andreas.keller@ccb.uni-saarland.de.
(18)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, 94305, USA. andreas.keller@ccb.uni-saarland.de.
(19)PharmaScienceHub, Saarland University Campus, Saarbrücken, Germany. 
andreas.keller@ccb.uni-saarland.de.

The clinical course and treatment of neurodegenerative disease are complicated 
by immune-system interference and chronic inflammatory processes, which remain 
incompletely understood. Mapping immune signatures in larger human cohorts 
through single-cell gene expression profiling supports our understanding of 
observed peripheral changes in neurodegeneration. Here, we employ single-cell 
gene expression profiling of over 909k peripheral blood mononuclear cells 
(PBMCs) from 121 healthy individuals, 48 patients with mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI), 46 with Parkinson's disease (PD), 27 with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 
15 with both PD and MCI. The dataset is interactively accessible through a 
freely available website ( https://www.ccb.uni-saarland.de/adrcsc ). In this 
work, we identify disease-associated changes in blood cell type composition and 
the gene expression in a sex-specific manner, offering insights into peripheral 
and solid tissue signatures in AD and PD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-56833-7
PMCID: PMC11862118
PMID: 40000636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: A.K. was advisor of the 
company Firalis, researching RNA-based biomarkers for AD, while preparing the 
manuscript. C.L., Q.S., Y.L., C.C., Y.Y., J.X., M.J., Z.W., T.W., L.L., and Y.H. 
work for the company MGI group while working on the project. The remaining 
authors declare no competing interests.


85. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Jul;62(7):8420-8438. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04779-8.
Epub  2025 Feb 25.

Role of Peripheral NLRP3 Inflammasome in Cognitive Impairments: Insights of 
Non-central Factors.

Qiao M(1), Ni J(1), Qing H(1)(2), Qiu Y(3), Quan Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Biotherapy, Department of Biology, 
School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, 100081, China.
(2)Department of Biology, Shenzhen MSU-BIT University, Shenzhen, 518172, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Biotherapy, Department of Biology, 
School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, 100081, China. 
qiuyunjie1216@163.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Biotherapy, Department of Biology, 
School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, 100081, China. 
qzzbit2015@bit.edu.cn.

Cognitive impairments are common clinical manifestation of Alzheimer's disease, 
vascular dementia, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and autoimmune diseases. Emerging 
evidence has suggested a strong correlation between peripheral chronic 
inflammation and cognitive impairments. For example, nearly 40% of individuals 
with inflammatory bowel disease also suffer from cognitive impairments. In this 
condition, NLRP3 inflammasome (NLRP3-I) generating pro-inflammatory cytokines 
like IL-1β serves as a significant effector, and its persistence exerts adverse 
effects to both periphery and the brain. Moreover, investigations on serum 
biomarkers of mild cognitive impairments have shown NLRP3-I components' 
upregulation, suggesting the involvement of peripheral inflammasome pathway in 
this disorder. Here, we systematically reviewed the current knowledge of NLRP3-I 
in inflammatory disease to uncover its potential role in bridging peripheral 
chronic inflammation and cognitive impairments. This review summarizes the 
molecular features and ignition process of NLRP3-I in inflammatory response. 
Meanwhile, various effects of NLRP3-I involved in peripheral 
inflammation-associated disease are also reviewed, especially its chronic 
disturbances to brain homeostasis and cognitive function through routes 
including gut-brain, liver-brain, and kidney-brain axes. In addition, current 
promising compounds and their targets relative to NLRP3-I are discussed in the 
context of cognitive impairments. Through the detailed investigation, this 
review highlights the critical role of peripheral NLRP3-I in the pathogenesis of 
cognitive disorders, and offers novel perspectives for developing effective 
therapeutic interventions for diseases associated with cognitive impairments. 
The present review outlines the current knowledge on the ignition of NLRP3-I in 
inflammatory disease and more importantly, emphasizes the role of peripheral 
NLRP3-I as a causal pathway in the development of cognitive disorders. Although 
major efforts to restrain cognitive decline are mainly focused on the central 
nervous system, it has become clear that disturbances from peripheral immune are 
closely associated with the dysfunctional brain. Therefore, attenuation of these 
inflammatory changes through inhibiting the NLRP3-I pathway in early 
inflammatory disease may reduce future risk of cognitive impairments, and in the 
meantime, considerations on such pathogenesis for combined drug therapy will be 
required in the clinical evaluation of cognitive disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04779-8
PMID: 40000575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval and Consent to 
Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Competing 
Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


86. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14597. doi: 10.1002/alz.14597.

Methods to crosswalk between cognitive test scores using data from the 
Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Cohort.

Ackley SF(1), Wang J(2), Chen R(3), Hill-Jarrett TG(4)(5), Rojas-Saunero LP(6), 
Stokes A(7), Shah SJ(8), Glymour MM(3); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(2)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, UCSF, San Francisco, California, 
USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Memory and Aging Center, UCSF, San Francisco, California, USA.
(5)Global Brain Health Institute, UCSF and Trinity College Dublin, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(6)Fielding School of Public Health, University of California Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.
(7)Department of Global Health, Boston University, Boston, USA.
(8)Division of General Internal Medicine and Center for Aging and Serious 
Illness, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Studies use multiple different instruments to measure 
dementia-related outcomes, making head-to-head comparisons of interventions 
difficult.
METHODS: To address this gap, we developed two methods to crosswalk estimated 
treatment effects on cognitive outcomes that are flexible, broadly applicable, 
and do not rely on strong distributional assumptions.
RESULTS: We present two methods to crosswalk effect estimates using one measure 
to estimates using another measure, illustrated with global cognitive measures 
from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). Specifically, we 
develop crosswalks for the following measures and associated change scores over 
time: the clinical dementia rating scale sum of box (CDR-SB), Montreal Cognitive 
Assessment (MoCA), and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores. Finally, a 
setting in which crosswalking is not appropriate is illustrated with plasma 
phosphorylated tau (p-tau) concentration and global cognitive measures.
DISCUSSION: Given the inconsistent collection and reporting of dementia and 
cognitive outcomes across studies, these crosswalking methods offer a valuable 
approach to harmonizing and comparing results reported on different scales.
HIGHLIGHTS: Developed methods to crosswalk from one cognitive outcome to another 
in studies of dementia interventions. Methods illustrated using combinations of 
global cognitive tests: the CDR-SB, MoCA, and MMSE. Illustrates scenarios where 
crosswalking may not be appropriate for certain combinations of measures. 
Crosswalking methods support comparison of interventions with accurate error 
propagation. Facilitates inclusion of more studies in meta-analyses by 
increasing data comparability.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14597
PMCID: PMC11859661
PMID: 40000573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have no conflicts of interest to 
report. Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


87. J Mol Neurosci. 2025 Feb 25;75(1):29. doi: 10.1007/s12031-025-02324-9.

Insights Into the Therapeutic Potential of SIRT1-modifying Compounds for 
Alzheimer's Disease: A Focus on Molecular Mechanisms.

AlHayani DA(1), Kubaev A(2), Uthirapathy S(3), Mandaliya V(4), Ballal S(5), 
Kalia R(6), Arya R(7), Gabble BC(8)(9)(10), Alasheqi MQ(11), Kadhim AJ(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratories Techniques, College of Health and Medical 
Technology, University of Al Maarif, 31003, Ramadi, Al Anbar, Iraq.
(2)Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, Samarkand State Medical University, 18 
Amir Temur Street, 140100, Samarkand, Uzbekistan. sherzodbek4810@mail.ru.
(3)Pharmacy Department, Tishk International University, Erbil, Kurdistan Region, 
Iraq.
(4)Marwadi University Research Center, Department of Microbiology, Faculty of 
Science, Marwadi University, Rajkot, 360003, Gujarat, India.
(5)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, School of Sciences, JAIN (Deemed to 
Be University), Bangalore, Karnataka, India.
(6)Centre for Research Impact & Outcome, Chitkara University Institute of 
Engineering and Technology, Chitkara University, Rajpura, 140401, Punjab, India.
(7)Department of Pharmacy, Chandigarh Pharmacy College, Chandigarh Group of 
Colleges-Jhanjeri, Mohali, 140307, Punjab, India.
(8)Medical Laboratory Technique College, the Islamic University, Najaf, Iraq.
(9)Medical Laboratory Technique College, the Islamic University of Al Diwaniyah, 
Al Diwaniyah, Iraq.
(10)Medical Laboratory Technique College, the Islamic University of Babylon, 
Babylon, Iraq.
(11)College of Pharmacy, National University of Science and Technology, Dhi Qar, 
Iraq.
(12)Department of Medical Engineering/Al, Nisour University College, Baghdad, 
Iraq.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by cognitive decline and memory loss, significantly impacting 
patients' quality of life. Recent studies have highlighted the roles of sirtuin 
1 (SIRT1), a NAD + -dependent deacetylase, in regulating various biological 
pathways associated with AD pathology, including amyloid-beta metabolism, tau 
hyperphosphorylation, and neuroinflammation. This review focuses on the 
therapeutic potential of synthetic and natural compounds that modulate SIRT1 
levels, emphasizing their molecular mechanisms of action. We explore a range of 
SIRT1-modifying agents, including polyphenols such as resveratrol, as well as 
synthetic analogs and novel pharmaceuticals that aim to enhance SIRT1 activity. 
Additionally, we discuss emerging innovative therapies, including 
pharmacological agents that improve SIRT1 signaling through mechanisms like 
photobiomodulation and nutritional interventions. These compounds not only 
target SIRT1 but also integrate into broader metabolic and neuroprotective 
pathways, presenting a promising approach to ameliorating AD symptoms. By 
elucidating the intricate interactions between SIRT1-modifying compounds and 
their effects on AD pathology, this review aims to advance the understanding of 
potential therapeutic strategies that could delay or prevent the progression of 
AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-025-02324-9
PMID: 40000535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


88. Lipids. 2025 Jul;60(4):211-227. doi: 10.1002/lipd.12436. Epub 2025 Feb 25.

Cosupplementation with DHA and medium-chain triglycerides ameliorates NAFLD and 
reduces amyloid-β accumulation by modulating hepatic lipid metabolism in APP/PS1 
mice.

Zhang D(1), Wang Z(2), Wang X(1), Yue W(1), Zhang L(1), Gao Z(1), Li M(1), Zhou 
X(1), Li Z(2), Huang G(2), Li W(2), Zhou D(1), Qian Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology, Tianjin Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Tianjin, China.
(2)Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health, Tianjin 
Medical University, Tianjin, China.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common chronic liver 
diseases and is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Both docosahexaenoic 
acid (DHA) and medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) play essential roles in lipid 
metabolism and the inhibition of amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation. We aimed to 
explore the possible association between cerebral Aβ deposition and the 
development of NAFLD and to investigate the effect of DHA combined with MCTs on 
delaying NAFLD progression and Aβ accumulation. To this end, 40 three-month-old 
APP/PS1 male mice were randomly assigned to 4 groups. The mice were fed a 
control diet, a DHA (2.91 g/kg) diet, an MCTs (100 g/kg) diet, or a DHA + MCTs 
diet for 8 months. Ten C57BL/6J mice were fed a control diet and used as the 
wild-type (WT) group. The results indicated that APP/PS1 mice exhibited NAFLD 
and cerebral Aβ accumulation. DHA combined with MCTs decreased blood and liver 
lipids, relieved hepatic steatosis and fat accumulation, and decreased the level 
of Aβ in the brain and serum. Moreover, DHA combined with MCTs significantly 
upregulated the levels of Aβ clearance-related proteins in the liver, modulated 
the expression of key hepatic lipid metabolism enzymes and upstream hepatic 
lipid metabolism factors. In conclusion, compared with wild-type mice, APP/PS1 
mice may be more sensitive to changes in lipid metabolism due to the 
accumulation of Aβ. DHA combined with MCTs alleviated NAFLD and decreased brain 
and serum Aβ levels in APP/PS1 mice compared with the control group. The 
possible mechanism may involve affecting hepatic fat and cholesterol metabolism 
and increasing hepatic Aβ clearance by modulating liver lipid metabolism 
enzymes.

© 2025 AOCS.

DOI: 10.1002/lipd.12436
PMID: 40000528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Eur J Ageing. 2025 Feb 25;22(1):7. doi: 10.1007/s10433-025-00837-1.

The potential of depressive symptoms to identify cognitive impairment in ageing.

Alexopoulos P(1)(2)(3)(4), Bountoulis C(5), Katirtzoglou E(6), Kosmidis MH(7), 
Siarkos K(6), Yannakoulia M(8), Dardiotis E(9), Skondra M(10), Hadjigeorgiou 
G(9)(11), Perneczky R(12)(13)(14)(15)(16), Sakka P(17), Georgiou EZ(10), 
Charalampopoulou Μ(10), Felemegkas P(10), Leroi I(18), Batsidis A(19), Perna 
L(20), Politis A(6)(21), Scarmeas N(22)(23), Economou P(24).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Health Sciences, Mental Health Services, 
Patras University General Hospital, University of Patras, 26504, Rio, Patras, 
Greece. panos.alexopoulos@upatras.gr.
(2)Global Brain Health Institute, Medical School, Trinity College Dublin, 
Dublin, Republic of Ireland. panos.alexopoulos@upatras.gr.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Klinikum Rechts der Isar, Faculty 
of Medicine, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany. 
panos.alexopoulos@upatras.gr.
(4)Patras Dementia Day Care Center, Patras, Greece. 
panos.alexopoulos@upatras.gr.
(5)Department of Business Administration, University of Piraeus, Piraeus, 
Greece.
(6)1st Department of Psychiatry, Eginition Hospital, School of Medicine, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(7)Lab of Cognitive Neuroscience, School of Psychology, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(8)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Harokopio University, Athens, Greece.
(9)Department of Neurology, Larissa University General Hospital, School of 
Medicine, University of Thessaly, Larissa, Greece.
(10)Department of Medicine, School of Health Sciences, Mental Health Services, 
Patras University General Hospital, University of Patras, 26504, Rio, Patras, 
Greece.
(11)Department of Neurology, Medical School, University of Cyprus, Nicosia, 
Cyprus.
(12)Division of Mental Health in Older Adults and Alzheimer Therapy and Research 
Center, Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich, Munich, Germany.
(13)Ageing Epidemiology (AGE) Research Unit, School of Public Health, Faculty of 
Medicine, The Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, London, UK.
(14)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Munich, Munich, Germany.
(15)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(16)Sheffield Institute for Translational Neurosciences (SITraN), University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(17)Athens Association of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders, Maroussi, 
Greece.
(18)Global Brain Health Institute, Medical School, Trinity College Dublin, 
Dublin, Republic of Ireland.
(19)Department of Mathematics, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece.
(20)Department of Genes and Environment, Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, 
Munich, Germany.
(21)Department of Psychiatry, Division of Geriatric Psychiatry and 
Neuropsychiatry, Johns Hopkins Medical School, Baltimore, USA.
(22)1st Department of Neurology, Eginition Hospital, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens Medical School, Athens, Greece.
(23)Department of Neurology, Taub Institute for Research in Alzheimer's Disease 
and the Ageing Brain, The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Columbia University, 
New York, NY, USA.
(24)Department of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering, University of 
Patras, Patras, Greece.

Depressive symptoms are common in mild cognitive impairment (MCI), dementia 
caused by Alzheimer's disease (AD dementia) and in cognitively unimpaired older 
adults. However, it is unclear whether they could contribute to the 
identification of cognitive impairment in ageing. To assess the potential 
utility of depressive symptoms to distinguish between healthy cognitive ageing 
and MCI and AD dementia. The diagnostic workup of the cognitive function of 1737 
older cognitively unimpaired individuals, 334 people with MCI and 142 
individuals with AD dementia relied on a comprehensive neuropsychiatric 
assessment, including the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE). Depressive 
symptoms were tapped with the 15-item Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS). 
Proportional odds logistic regression (POLR) models and the machine learning 
technique Adaptive Boosting algorithm (AdaBoost) were employed. Stratified 
repeated random subsampling (stratified bootstrap resampling) was used to 
recursive partitioning to training- and validation set (70/30 ratio). The 
average accuracy of the POLR models for the GDS total score in distinguishing 
between cognitive impairment and healthy cognitive ageing exceeded 78% and was 
inferior to that of MMSE. Of note, the sensitivity of GDS total score was very 
low. By employing the AdaBoost algorithm and considering GDS items separately, 
the average accuracy was higher than 0.72 and comparable to that of the MMSE, 
while sensitivity- and specificity values were more balanced. The findings of 
the study provide initial evidence that depressive symptoms may contribute to 
distinguishing between cognitive impairment and cognitively healthy ageing.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-025-00837-1
PMCID: PMC11861444
PMID: 40000465

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


90. Am J Chin Med. 2025;53(1):1-15. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X25500016. Epub 2025 Feb
 21.

Traditional Chinese Medicine for Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review and 
Meta-Analysis.

Chen Y(1), Zhang D(2), Chen T(3), Zhao L(4), Wen L(5), Hou R(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical Medicine, Addenbrooke's Hospital, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.
(2)Shandong Mental Health Center, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, P. R. 
China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong, P. R. China.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong, P. R. China.
(5)Xiamen Key Laboratory for Traditional Chinese Medicine, Neurology & 
Immunology Research, Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative 
Disease and Aging Research, School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, P. R. 
China.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

The treatment of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) remains a challenge for modern 
medicine due to its complex pathogenesis. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) has 
demonstrated significant success in the prevention and treatment of variable 
medical conditions. For AD pharmacological management, TCM could provide 
promising approaches. This study aimed to systematically evaluate the current 
evidence of the effects of TCM therapies on AD. A systematic search of the 
literature was performed on electronic databases including PubMed, the Cochrane 
Library, the Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), and Web of 
Science. Thirteen studies were included in this review, subject to inclusion and 
exclusion criteria. Screening, data extraction, and quality assessment were 
undertaken following the guidelines for Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic 
Reviews and Meta-Analyses. Our results show that TCM offered a significant 
improvement in cognitive functioning compared to the control group, measured on 
both MMSE and ADAS-CoG scales, suggesting its potential utility in slowing 
cognitive decline and improving cognitive function as compared to conventional 
drug treatments and placebos. No significant difference was found for scores of 
neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPI) or ability to perform daily living activities 
(ADCS-ADL). These findings highlight TCM as a potential adjuvant therapy, in 
combination with conventional medicine, to improve the effectiveness and reduce 
the limitations of conventional AD drug regimes. Studies with larger sample 
sizes, rigorous study designs, accurate long-term reporting, and correlation to 
neuropathological markers are needed in the future to enhance the evidence base 
for the use of TCM in AD patients, and to further confirm its efficacy.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X25500016
PMID: 40000385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;12(5):100099. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100099.  Epub 2025 Feb 24.

Feasibility and acceptability of remote APOE-genotyping among research 
volunteers of an online recruitment registry (The Dutch Brain Research 
Registry).

Waterink L(1), van der Lee SJ(2), Nijland D(3), van der Zee FI(4), Visser 
LNC(5), Pijnenburg YAL(6), Sikkes SAM(7), van der Flier WM(8), Zwan MD(9).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
l.waterink@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Genomics of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases and Aging, Human Genetics, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC 
location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
s.j.vanderlee@amsterdamumc.nl.
(3)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Genomics of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases and Aging, Human Genetics, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC 
location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
d.nijland@amsterdamumc.nl.
(4)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
f.i.vanderzee@amsterdamumc.nl.
(5)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Medical Psychology, 
Amsterdam UMC location AMC, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; 
Amsterdam Public Health research Institute, Quality of Care, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: n.c.visser@amsterdamumc.nl.
(6)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
yal.pijnenburg@amsterdamumc.nl.
(7)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Faculty of Behavioural 
and Movement Sciences, Department of Clinical, Neuro and Developmental 
Psychology, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
s.sikkes@amsterdamumc.nl.
(8)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Epidemiology and 
Data Science, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: wm.vdflier@amsterdamumc.nl.
(9)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
m.zwan@amsterdamumc.nl.

BACKGROUND: Participant recruitment for preclinical Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
prevention studies is challenging. Online registries facilitate large scale 
prescreening of individuals at risk for AD to accelerate recruitment. 
APOE-prescreening has the potential to better identify at-risk individuals. This 
study investigated the feasibility and acceptability of at-home APOE-genotyping 
in cognitively-normal registrants of an online registry.
METHODS: We invited 9,287 cognitively-normal registrants of Dutch Brain Research 
Registry (DBRR) aged 50 to 75 for at-home APOE-genotype testing, without 
receiving the results. Feasibility was measured by participation ratio 
(participation/interested), swab-return ratio (returned-swabs/participation), 
and genotyping-success ratio (analyzed swabs/returned swabs). Acceptability was 
measured with online questions about information provision and project scope. We 
explored prescreening questions potentially reducing screen-failures.
RESULTS: Feasibility was high with an 0.89 participation ratio (2,886/3,251), 
0.90 swab-return ratio (2,886/2,597), 0.99 genotyping-success ratio 
(2,558/2,597). Acceptability was high, as participants were content with the 
information provision (87 %-97 %, n= 1,709-1,894), which was also well 
understood (91 %-93 %, n = 1,772-1,802). Among successful-analyzed swabs (n = 
2,558), 27 % participants were APOE-ε4 heterozygote (n = 703), and 2 % 
homozygote (n = 60). Prescreening on a positive family history leads to a third 
reduction in the number of invitations needed to identify one APOE-ε4 carrier.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that APOE-ɛ4 genotyping in participants of an 
online research registry is feasible, well received and could be used to 
prescreen individuals at risk for AD for prevention studies. Adding a positive 
family history before invitation for APOE-genotyping, would further improve the 
prescreening process and reduce screen failures when identifying carriers.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100099
PMCID: PMC12183973
PMID: 40000321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosure SAMS provided 
consultancy services to Prothena Biosciences, Aribio and Biogen, and she is part 
of the Scientific Advisory Board of Cogstate. All funds are paid to the 
institution. WF has performed contract research for Biogen MA Inc, and 
Boehringer Ingelheim. WF has been an invited speaker at Biogen MAInc, Danone, 
Eisai, Novonordisk, Web MD Neurology (Medscape), Springer Healthcare, European 
Brain Council. WF is consultant to Oxford Health Policy Forum CIC, Roche, Eisai, 
and Biogen MA Inc. WF participated on advisory boards of Biogen MAI inc, Roche, 
and EliLilly. All funding is paid to her institution. WF is a member of the 
steering committee of PAVE,and Think Brain Health. WF was associate editor of 
Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 2020/2021. WF is associate editor at Brain. MZ 
is site coordinator of the phase 1/2 ASPIRE-FTD clinical trial (NCT06064890) 
sponsored by AviadoBio. LW, SL, DN, FIZ, LNCV, YALP report no conflict of 
interest.


92. Stroke Vasc Neurol. 2025 Feb 24:svn-2025-004048. doi:
10.1136/svn-2025-004048.  Online ahead of print.

Updates on vascular dementia.

Ng S(#)(1)(2), Hornblass A(#)(1)(2), Habibi P(#)(3)(4), Ikramuddin S(3)(5), Chen 
J(3)(6), Feng W(7), Cai D(8)(2)(3)(4)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Research and Development, James J Peters VA Medical Center, Bronx, New York, 
USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, The University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
USA.
(4)N Bud Grossman Center for Memory Research and Care, The University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(5)Neurology, University of Texas Health Sciences, Houston, Texas, USA.
(6)Blake School, Hopkins, Minnesota, USA.
(7)Neurology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA 
cai00268@umn.edu.
(9)GRECC, Minneapolis VA Health Care System, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Vascular dementia (VaD) is the second leading cause of dementia after 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). In comparison to AD, there is a decline in the 
incidence of VaD due to recent improvements in cardiovascular risk factors. 
Brain hypoperfusion and hypoxia due to vascular pathologies have been postulated 
as the primary disease mechanism of VaD. However, other factors such as 
neuroinflammation may also contribute to the development of VaD. Non-modifiable 
and modifiable risk factors have been attributed to VaD. The clinical features 
overlapping between AD and VaD create significant challenges for physicians. 
Newly developed biomarkers may potentially help differentiate VaD from other 
forms of dementia. Unlike AD, there is no Food and Drug Administration-approved 
drug or device for treating VaD. Current treatment options mainly target 
symptoms rather than slowing the development or progression of VaD. There are 
ongoing research studies testing the efficacy of various therapeutic strategies 
for VaD. In this narrative review, we will summarise current findings on 
epidemiology, attributed risk factors and disease mechanisms, as well as 
emphasise the importance of optimising lifestyle modifications and comorbid 
condition management in preventing or slowing down the development of VaD. 
Finally, current therapies and ongoing research studies of novel therapeutic 
interventions such as stem-cell therapy and neuromodulation are highlighted.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/svn-2025-004048
PMID: 40000032

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


93. Neurobiol Dis. 2025 May;208:106845. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106845. Epub 2025
 Feb 24.

Towards a better diagnosis and treatment of dementia: Identifying common and 
distinct neuropathological mechanisms in Alzheimer's and vascular dementia.

Vollhardt A(1), Frölich L(2), Stockbauer AC(3), Danek A(3), Schmitz C(1), Wahl 
AS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroanatomy, Institute of Anatomy, 
Ludwigs-Maximilians-University, Pettikoferstrasse 11, 80336 Munich, Germany.
(2)Central Institute of Mental Health, University of Heidelberg, J5, 68159 
Mannheim, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, LMU University Hospital, LMU Munich, 
Marchioninistraße 15, 81377 Munich, Germany.
(4)Department of Neuroanatomy, Institute of Anatomy, 
Ludwigs-Maximilians-University, Pettikoferstrasse 11, 80336 Munich, Germany; 
Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research (ISD), LMU University Hospital, LMU 
Munich, Feodor-Lynen-Strasse 17, 81377 Munich, Germany. Electronic address: 
AnnaSophia.Wahl@med.uni-muenchen.de.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD) together contribute to 
almost 90 % of all dementia cases leading to major health challenges of our time 
with a substantial global socioeconomic burden. While in AD, the improved 
understanding of Amyloid beta (Aß) mismetabolism and tau hyperphosphorylation as 
pathophysiological hallmarks has led to significant clinical breakthroughs, 
similar advances in VaD are lacking. After comparing the clinical presentation, 
including risk factors, disease patterns, course of diseases and further 
diagnostic parameters for both forms of dementia, we highlight the importance of 
shared pathomechanisms found in AD and VaD: Endothelial damage, blood brain 
barrier (BBB) breakdown and hypoperfusion inducing oxidative stress and 
inflammation and thus trophic uncoupling in the neurovascular unit. A 
dysfunctional endothelium and BBB lead to the accumulation of neurotoxic 
molecules and Aß through impaired clearance, which in turn leads to 
neurodegeneration. In this context we discuss possible neuropathological 
parameters, which might serve as biomarkers and thus improve diagnostic accuracy 
or reveal targets for novel therapeutic strategies for both forms of dementia.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2025.106845
PMID: 39999928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Anna-Sophia Wahl reports financial 
support provided by The Branco Weiss Fellowship, the Dementia foundation, 
Switzerland (Synapsis Foundation), the Hurka Foundation Switzerland, the 
University of Zurich Foundation as well as an ERC Starting Grant (ARISE, Grant 
No. 101160935). If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


94. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2025;54(5):284-293. doi: 10.1159/000544801. Epub 
2025 Feb 25.

Deciphering Perspectives: A European Survey on Clinical Decision Support Tools 
for Dementia and Alzheimer's Disease.

Umoh I, Umoh I(1), Xia X(1), Winblad B(2)(3), Aye S(1), Aho E(1), 
Rhodius-Meester HFM(4)(5)(6)(7), Jönsson L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, 
Solna, Sweden.
(2)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of NVS, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, 
Sweden.
(3)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge, 
Sweden.
(4)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, De Boelelaan, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Geriatric Medicine Section, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Geriatric Medicine, The Memory Clinic, Oslo University 
Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

INTRODUCTION: Technological advancements like digital monitoring tools, 
disease-modifying therapies, and artificial intelligence have been shown to 
improve the clinical management of neurocognitive diseases like Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). To enhance implementation in daily practice, users' input is 
essential in the technology development process. This study aimed to determine 
clinician's perspective of clinical decision support systems (CDSS) in the 
management of dementia and AD.
METHOD: A survey was conducted targeting clinicians practicing in the field of 
dementia across Europe. A sixty-five-item digital questionnaire was 
administered, and opinions were inquired across the domains of diagnosis, 
disease-modifying therapy, and prognosis, including factors that affect tool 
implementation and utilization.
RESULTS: Eighty-four clinicians (including specialist physicians, psychologists, 
and nurses) responded to this survey, and more than 50% had no knowledge or 
experience with CDSS. Most of the respondents reported the ability to predict 
the likelihood of AD as the most important diagnostic function. It was 
surprising to find the middling responses for the ability to predict amyloid 
positivity. The majority indicated assessment of treatment eligibility for 
disease-modifying therapy as vital, and the ability to predict cognitive and 
functional decline as the most important prognostic functions. Data accuracy and 
ease of use were noted as most necessary to facilitate CDSS adoption and 
implementation.
CONCLUSION: Findings from this study contribute to the future development of 
CDSS in this field, especially regarding the approval and imminent use of 
disease-modifying therapies, a comprehensive tool that is precise and user 
friendly would improve clinical decisions and efficiency.

© 2025 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000544801
PMCID: PMC12500249
PMID: 39999809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This study was funded by the European Union, the 
private members, and those contributing partners of the IHI JU. Views and 
opinions expressed are, however, those of the author(s) only and do not 
necessarily reflect those of the aforementioned parties. Neither of the 
aforementioned parties can be held responsible for them. Bengt Winblad was a 
member of the journal’s Editorial Board at the time of submission.


95. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Apr 15;288:117401. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117401.
Epub  2025 Feb 17.

Phytomolecules as Alzheimer's therapeutics: A comprehensive review.

Hussain MK(1), Ahmad M(2), Khatoon S(3), Khan MV(4), Azmi S(5), Arshad M(6), 
Ahamad S(7), Saquib M(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Govt Raza P.G. College, M.J.P Rohilkahand 
University, Rampur, Bareilly, 244901, India. Electronic address: 
mkhcdri@gmail.com.
(2)Defence Research & Development Organization, Selection Centre East, 
Prayagraj, 211001, India.
(3)Department of Botany, D.N. College Meerut, 250002, India.
(4)Department of Biosciences, Integral University, Lucknow, 226026, India.
(5)Scientific Research Center, Prince Sultan Military Medical City, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Zoology, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, 202002, India.
(7)Department of Chemistry, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, 202002, India. 
Electronic address: shakirzaheer111@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Chemistry, University of Allahabad, Prayagraj (Allahabad), 
211002, India; Department of Chemistry, G. R. P. B. Degree College, P. R. S. 
University, Prayagraj (Allahabad), 211010, UP, India. Electronic address: 
saquibem@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a leading neurodegenerative disorder recognized by 
progressive cognitive decline and behavioral changes. The pathology of AD is 
characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques and the 
hyperphosphorylation of tau protein, which leads to synaptic loss and subsequent 
neurodegeneration. Additional contributors to disease progression include 
metabolic, vascular, and inflammatory factors. Glycogen synthase kinase-3β 
(GSK-3β) is also implicated, as it plays a crucial role in tau phosphorylation 
and the progression of neurodegeneration. This review provides a comprehensive 
analysis of various phytomolecules and their potential to target multiple 
aspects of AD pathology. We examined natural products from diverse classes, 
including stilbenes, flavonoids, phenolic acids, alkaloids, coumarins, 
terpenoids, chromenes, cannabinoids, chalcones, phloroglucinols, and polycyclic 
polyprenylated acylphloroglucinols (PPAPs). The key mechanisms of action of 
these phytomolecules include modulating tau protein dynamics to reduce 
aggregation, inhibiting acetylcholinesterase (AChE) to maintain neurotransmitter 
levels and enhance cognitive function, and inhibiting β-secretase (BACE1) to 
decrease Aβ production. Additionally, some phytomolecules were found to 
influence GSK-3β activity, thereby impacting tau phosphorylation and 
neurodegeneration. By addressing multiple targets, Aβ production, tau 
hyperphosphorylation, AChE activity, and GSK-3β, these natural products offer a 
promising multi-targeted approach to AD therapy. This review highlights their 
potential to develop effective treatments that not only mitigate core 
pathological features but also manage the complex, multifactorial aspects of AD 
progression.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2025.117401
PMID: 39999743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


96. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Mar;184:117914. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.117914. 
Epub 2025 Feb 24.

Social and contextual memory impairments induced by Amyloid-β oligomers are 
rescued by Sigma-1 receptor activation.

Djebari S(1), Jiménez-Herrera R(1), Iborra-Lázaro G(1), Jiménez-Díaz L(2), 
Navarro-López JD(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurophysiology & Behavior Lab, Institute of Biomedicine (IB-UCLM) and 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Castilla-La Mancha (IDISCAM), Faculty of 
Medicine of Ciudad Real, University of Castilla-La Mancha, Ciudad Real, Spain.
(2)Neurophysiology & Behavior Lab, Institute of Biomedicine (IB-UCLM) and 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Castilla-La Mancha (IDISCAM), Faculty of 
Medicine of Ciudad Real, University of Castilla-La Mancha, Ciudad Real, Spain. 
Electronic address: Lydia.Jimenez@uclm.es.
(3)Neurophysiology & Behavior Lab, Institute of Biomedicine (IB-UCLM) and 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Castilla-La Mancha (IDISCAM), Faculty of 
Medicine of Ciudad Real, University of Castilla-La Mancha, Ciudad Real, Spain. 
Electronic address: Juan.Navarro@uclm.es.

Sigma-1 receptors (S1Rs) are widely expressed throughout the central nervous 
system and modulate neuron intracellular calcium levels, leading to changes in 
neurotransmitter release and neuronal activity. They also interact with various 
proteins and signaling pathways, playing a key role in regulating synaptic 
plasticity in brain areas such as the hippocampus, thereby influencing learning 
and memory processes. This opens a research avenue to explore S1R modulation as 
a potential therapeutic target in diseases involving hippocampal synaptic 
alterations and compromised cognitive processes, such as Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Here, we hypothesize that pharmacological activation of S1R could 
counteract synaptic plasticity deficits and hippocampal-dependent cognitive 
alterations in an early-stage amyloidosis model of Alzheimer's disease, induced 
by intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of Aβ1-42 oligomers (oAβ1-42). 
For that purpose, we investigate ex vivo CA3-CA1 synaptic plasticity, while in 
vivo, we performed open field habituation and social recognition tasks to assess 
contextual and social memory, respectively. Our data show that pharmacological 
activation of S1Rs with the selective agonist PRE-084 counteract oAβ1-42 
deleterious effects on CA3-CA1 long-term synaptic plasticity (LTP), and 
hippocampal-dependent contextual and social memory, without alterations of 
spontaneous behaviors. Together, these results provide further evidence for the 
role of S1Rs in ameliorating hippocampal synaptic and contextual memory 
dysfunctions and introduce novel insight into their involvement in early 
amyloid-induced social memory deficits, highlighting their potential for 
developing comprehensive treatments for early AD. Also, the absence of adverse 
behavioral outcomes associated with PRE-084 treatment suggests a favorable 
safety profile in preclinical models, supporting its potential as a therapeutic 
option.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.117914
PMID: 39999645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


97. Fabricating mice and dementia: opening up relations in multi-species
research.

Davies G, Gorman R, Milne R.

In: Jenkins N, Jack-Waugh A, Ritchie L, editors. Multi-Species Dementia Studies. 
Bristol (UK): Bristol University Press; 2025 Feb 25. Chapter 2.
Wellcome Trust–Funded Monographs and Book Chapters.

This chapter was written during a moment of flux in the unravelling of the 
plaques, tangles, and tales that characterise over thirty years of research for 
treatments of dementia involving humans and animals. In the autumn of 2022, 
there were widely circulated reports in the mainstream media of a pharmaceutical 
breakthrough following long periods of investment in the so-called ‘amyloid 
cascade hypothesis’ (ACH). This focused on the small benefits in slowing 
cognitive decline for some people using the drug lecanemab. While modest, the 
results were reported as a significant success: ending ‘decades of failure’ and 
promising a step towards ‘a new era of drugs to treat Alzheimer’s’ (BBC News, 
2022). However, even amid celebrations there were cautions about the wider 
potential of this drug, which could only be given to people with early 
Alzheimer’s disease who had evidence of amyloid plaques from scans or spinal 
fluid analysis, excluding the 98% of people who were untested, many other types 
of dementia, and those in the later stages of disease (Walsh et al., 2022). The 
success of lecanemab had been constructed, or fabricated, through careful 
articulation of the relations between one version of dementia, the associated 
animal models, targeted drug pathways, and a particular patient population. Yet, 
this highly specific ‘scientific breakthrough’ (Brown, 2000) achieved extensive 
celebratory media currency after many years of unfulfilled expectations for all 
those hoping for a cure for dementia. We use the story of this scientific 
breakthrough to frame our exploration of the organisation of translational 
research on dementia using mouse models of Alzheimer’s disease. We are 
interested in how the trajectories of drug development tightly knit together 
particular animals, humans, and drug pathways by focusing on the specific 
biological processes that can be modelled, evidenced, and altered in 
multi-species experimental systems (Davies, 2010, 2013b; Milne, 2020). We are 
also interested in the forms of dementia and other ways of doing research that 
fall outside of these biological pathways. While the therapeutic breakthroughs 
enabled by the ACH are to be celebrated, they raise a challenging issue for 
constructing multispecies dementia in biomedical research. Bringing animal 
models in the laboratory and humans in the clinic into sufficiently close 
relations so that manipulations in one organism effectively model processes 
relevant to therapeutic outcomes in another means bracketing off alternative 
research options and the multiplicity of human experiences of dementia. Making 
decisions about which animal model to progress has implications for both the 
animals used in research and the humans affected by this health condition. We 
are interested in how we might tell stories about research and drug development 
that are more accountable to the multiplicity of people and animals’ lives they 
touch. We use the concept of how mouse models are ‘fabricated’ in dementia 
research to focus attention on these processes of decision-making in science. We 
use this concept to unpack how disease models are fabricated as a way of 
bringing the decisions made by researchers in specific research trajectories 
into conversation with the decisions made by people affected by dementia who are 
reviewing new research proposals for medical charities. We explain our use of 
the concept of fabrication more fully below but note here that we consider 
fabrication an important process in all scientific research in which decisions 
to focus on certain things give shape to the tools, techniques, animals, and 
evidence that are built into research pathways. Yet we use the term 
acknowledging it can have a pejorative meaning too. These processes are fallible 
and open to other kinds of fabrication and forgery that reflect motivations and 
methods in science; though malfeasance is only a small part of the uncertainties 
around reproducible and responsible science (Macleod and the University of 
Edinburgh Research Strategy Group, 2022). The stories of dementia research 
contain irresponsible behaviour as well as successful breakthroughs for science; 
repeatedly deferred hope as well as expectations realised for people affected by 
dementia. We start by discussing our use of the concept of fabrication and 
introduce the research we draw on in this chapter. We then present two different 
ways of telling stories about the organisation of multispecies biomedical 
research on dementia. First, we trace the experimental practices used to 
construct mouse models within the ACH. This focuses on how researchers fabricate 
the animals and patient populations that link and make visible the specific 
biological pathways they hope will make a difference to disease trajectories. 
Second, we explore how people affected by dementia, acting as patient 
representatives in reviewing proposals for new biomedical research, locate 
themselves and their families within these stories of recurrent hope and delayed 
promise. We explore how they relate to the animals they encounter in research 
proposals and their responsibilities to others affected by dementia. While the 
future biomedical research trajectories of the ACH are underpinned by the 
translations made possible by transgenic animals based on specific family 
genomes, the patient representatives we spoke to wanted to acknowledge a wider 
set of relations, drawing attention to the importance of equity and balance to 
benefit those affected by Alzheimer’s disease now. We conclude by reflecting on 
the different dimensions of accountability in dementia research and the 
challenge of working between multispecies relations and the multiple versions of 
dementia.

This is a post-peer-review, pre-copy edited version of a chapter published in 
Multi-Species Dementia Studies. Details of the definitive published version and 
how to purchase it are available online at: 
https://policy.bristoluniversitypress.co.uk/multi-species-dementia-studies. 
Copyright lies with the author of this pre-copyedited version, please contact 
them directly for permission to reuse content from the chapter. Bristol 
University Press holds copyright of the published version and permission 
requests can be made via the Copyright Clearance Center.

PMID: 40690569


98. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Mar 19;16(6):1055-1065. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00661. Epub 2025 Feb 25.

Discovery of New Pentapeptide Inhibitors Against Amyloid-β Aggregation Using 
Word2Vec and Molecular Simulation.

Han YL(1), Yin HH(1), Li C(1), Du J(2), He Y(1)(3), Guan YX(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 
310058, China.
(2)Department of General Practice, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital of Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou 310020, China.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington 98195, United States.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the aggregation of amyloid-β (Aβ) 
peptides into toxic oligomers and fibrils. The efficacy of existing peptide 
inhibitors based on the central hydrophobic core (CHC) sequence of Aβ42 remains 
limited due to self-aggregation or poor inhibition. This study aimed to identify 
novel pentapeptide inhibitors with high similarity and low binding energy to the 
CHC region LVFFA using a new computational screening workflow based on Word2Vec 
and molecular simulation. The antimicrobial peptides and human brain protein 
sequences were used for training the Word2Vec model. After tuning the parameters 
of the Word2Vec model, 1017 pentapeptides with high similarity to LVFFA were 
identified. Molecular docking was employed to estimate the affinity of the 
pentapeptides for the target of Aβ14-42 pentamer, and 103 peptides with 
favorable docking scores were obtained. Finally, five pentapeptides with a low 
binding energy and high binding stability via molecular dynamics simulation were 
experimentally validated using thioflavin T assays. Surprisingly, one 
pentapeptide, i.e., PALIR, exhibited significant inhibition surpassing the 
positive control LPFFN. This study demonstrates an effective combinatorial 
strategy to discover new peptide inhibitors. With PALIR representing a promising 
lead candidate, further optimization of PALIR could aid in the development of 
improved therapies to prevent amyloid toxicity in AD.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00661
PMID: 39999409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. JMIR Aging. 2025 Feb 25;8:e65221. doi: 10.2196/65221.

Real-World Insights Into Dementia Diagnosis Trajectory and Clinical Practice 
Patterns Unveiled by Natural Language Processing: Development and Usability 
Study.

Paek H(#)(1), Fortinsky RH(#)(2), Lee K(1), Huang LC(1), Maghaydah YS(2), Kuchel 
GA(2), Wang X(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)IMO Health, Rosemont, IL, United States.
(2)UConn Center on Aging, University of Connecticut School of Medicine, 
Farmington, CT, United States.
(3)Center for Quantitative Medicine, University of Connecticut School of 
Medicine, 195 Farmington Ave, Farmington, CT, 06032, United States, 1 
201-282-8098.
(4)Department of Health Policy and Management, Tulane University, New Orleans, 
LA, United States.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Understanding the dementia disease trajectory and clinical practice 
patterns in outpatient settings is vital for effective management. Knowledge 
about the path from initial memory loss complaints to dementia diagnosis remains 
limited.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to (1) determine the time intervals between initial 
memory loss complaints and dementia diagnosis in outpatient care, (2) assess the 
proportion of patients receiving cognition-enhancing medication prior to 
dementia diagnosis, and (3) identify patient and provider characteristics that 
influence the time between memory complaints and diagnosis and the prescription 
of cognition-enhancing medication.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study used a large outpatient electronic 
health record (EHR) database from the University of Connecticut Health Center, 
covering 2010-2018, with a cohort of 581 outpatients. We used a customized deep 
learning-based natural language processing (NLP) pipeline to extract clinical 
information from EHR data, focusing on cognition-related symptoms, primary 
caregiver relation, and medication usage. We applied descriptive statistics, 
linear, and logistic regression for analysis.
RESULTS: The NLP pipeline showed precision, recall, and F1-scores of 0.97, 0.93, 
and 0.95, respectively. The median time from the first memory loss complaint to 
dementia diagnosis was 342 (IQR 200-675) days. Factors such as the location of 
initial complaints and diagnosis and primary caregiver relationships 
significantly affected this interval. Around 25.1% (146/581) of patients were 
prescribed cognition-enhancing medication before diagnosis, with the number of 
complaints influencing medication usage.
CONCLUSIONS: Our NLP-guided analysis provided insights into the clinical 
pathways from memory complaints to dementia diagnosis and medication practices, 
which can enhance patient care and decision-making in outpatient settings.

© Hunki Paek, Richard H Fortinsky, Kyeryoung Lee, Liang-Chin Huang, Yazeed S 
Maghaydah, George A Kuchel, Xiaoyan Wang. Originally published in JMIR Aging 
(https://aging.jmir.org).

DOI: 10.2196/65221
PMCID: PMC11878476
PMID: 39999185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: HP, KL, LCH, and XW are 
current employees of IMO Health. All other authors declare no other competing 
financial or nonfinancial interests.


100. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14577. doi: 10.1002/alz.14577.

Plasma proteomics for cognitive decline and dementia-A Southeast Asian cohort 
study.

Sim MA(1)(2)(3), Doecke JD(4), Liew OW(5)(6), Wong LL(5)(6), Tan ESJ(2)(5), Chan 
SP(5)(6), Chong JRF(1), Cai Y(7), Hilal S(8), Venketasubramanian N(9), Tan 
BY(10); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative; Lai MKP(1), Choi 
H(6)(11)(12), Masters CL(13), Richards AM(5)(6)(14), Chen CLH(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pharmacology and Psychological Medicine, Memory Aging and 
Cognition Centre, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(3)Department of Anesthesia, National University Health System, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(4)Australian E-Health Research Centre, CSIRO, Herston, Queensland, Australia.
(5)Department of Cardiology, National University Heart Centre, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(6)Cardiovascular Research Institute, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(7)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine, Division of 
Neurology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Ma Liu Shui, Hong Kong.
(8)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore and 
National University Health System, Singapore, Singapore.
(9)Raffles Neuroscience Centre, Raffles Hospital, Singapore, Singapore.
(10)Department of Medicine, St Luke's Hospital, Singapore, Singapore.
(11)Department of Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University 
of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(12)Singapore Lipidomics Incubator, Life Sciences Institute, National University 
of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(13)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(14)Christchurch Heart Institute, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.

INTRODUCTION: The prognostic utility of plasma proteomics for cognitive decline 
and dementia in a Southeast Asian population characterized by high 
cerebrovascular disease (CeVD) burden is underexplored.
METHODS: We examined this in a Singaporean memory clinic cohort of 528 subjects 
(n = 300, CeVD; n = 167, incident cognitive decline) followed-up for 4 years.
RESULTS: Of 1441 plasma proteins surveyed, a 12-protein signature significantly 
predicted cognitive decline (q-value < .05). Sixteen diverse biological 
processes were implicated in cognitive decline. Ten proteins independently 
predicted incident dementia (q-value < .05). A unified prediction model 
combining plasma proteins with clinical risk factors increased the area under 
the curve for outcome prediction from 0.62 to 0.85. External validation in the 
cerebrospinal fluid proteome of an independent Caucasian cohort replicated four 
of the significantly predictive plasma markers for cognitive decline namely: 
GFAP, NEFL, AREG, and PPY.
DISCUSSION: The prognostic proteins prioritized in our study provide robust 
signals in two different biological matrices, representing potential mechanistic 
targets for dementia and cognitive decline.
HIGHLIGHTS: A total of 1441 plasma proteins were profiled in a Singaporean 
memory clinic cohort. We report prognostic plasma protein signatures for 
cognitive decline and dementia. External validation was performed in the 
cerebrospinal fluid proteome of a Caucasian cohort. A concordant proteomic 
signature was identified across both biofluids and cohorts. Further studies are 
needed to explore the therapeutic implications of these proteins for dementia.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14577
PMCID: PMC11854348
PMID: 39998981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.