1. Adv Mater. 2024 Nov;36(46):e2408729. doi: 10.1002/adma.202408729. Epub 2024
Sep  26.

A Peptide-Drug Conjugate-Based Nanoplatform for Immunometabolic Activation and 
In Situ Nerve Regeneration in Advanced-Stage Alzheimer's Disease.

Liu P(1), Zhang T(1), Wu Y(1), Chen Q(1), Sun T(1), Jiang C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, Key Laboratory of Smart Drug 
Delivery, Ministry of Education, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology 
and MOE Frontiers Center for Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, 201203, 
China.
(2)Department of Digestive Diseases, National Regional Medical Center, Binhai 
Campus of the First Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 
350212, China.

The formidable protection of physiological barriers and unclear pathogenic 
mechanisms impede drug development for Alzheimer's disease (AD). As defenders of 
the central nervous system, immune-metabolism function, and stemness of glial 
cells remain dormant during degeneration, representing a significant challenge 
for simultaneously targeting and modulating. Here, a modular nanoplatform is 
presented composed of peptide-drug conjugates and an inflammation-responsive 
core. The nanoplatform is transported through the blood-brain barrier via 
transcytosis and disassembles in the oxidative stress microenvironment upon 
intravenous administration. The released drug-conjugated modules can 
specifically target and deliver hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and all-trans retinoic 
acid (ATRA) to microglia and astrocytes, respectively. The immune function of 
chronic tolerant microglia is activated by metabolic modulation, and reactive 
astrocytes trans-differentiate into functional neurons. In a transgenic mouse 
model, nanoplatform reduces levels of toxic proteins and inflammation while 
increasing neuronal density. This results in the amelioration of learning and 
memory decline. The modular nanoplatform provides design principles for 
multi-cellular targeting and combination nano-therapy for inflammation-related 
diseases.

© 2024 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/adma.202408729
PMID: 39324288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Front Mol Neurosci. 2024 Sep 11;17:1441691. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2024.1441691. 
eCollection 2024.

Common cytokine receptor gamma chain family cytokines activate MAPK, PI3K, and 
JAK/STAT pathways in microglia to influence Alzheimer's Disease.

Zuppe H(1), Reed E(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent State University, Kent, OH, United 
States.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Northeast Ohio Medical University, 
Rootstown, OH, United States.

Dementia is an umbrella term used to describe deterioration of cognitive 
function. It is the seventh leading cause of death and is one of the major 
causes of dependence among older people globally. Alzheimer's Disease (AD) 
contributes to approximately 60-70% of dementia cases and is characterized by 
the accumulation of amyloid plaques and tau tangles in the brain. 
Neuroinflammation is now widely accepted as another disease hallmark, playing a 
role in both the response to and the perpetuation of disease processes. 
Microglia are brain-resident immune cells that are initially effective at 
clearing amyloid plaques but contribute to the damaging inflammatory milieu of 
the brain as disease progresses. Circulating peripheral immune cells contribute 
to this inflammatory environment through cytokine secretion, creating a positive 
feedback loop with the microglia. One group of these peripherally derived 
cytokines acting on microglia is the common cytokine receptor γ chain family. 
These cytokines bind heterodimer receptors to activate three major signaling 
pathways: MAPK, PI3K, and JAK/STAT. This perspective will look at the mechanisms 
of these three pathways in microglia and highlight the future directions of this 
research and potential therapeutics.

Copyright © 2024 Zuppe and Reed.

DOI: 10.3389/fnmol.2024.1441691
PMCID: PMC11422389
PMID: 39324116

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


3. Front Neurosci. 2024 Sep 11;18:1430465. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1430465. 
eCollection 2024.

New insights in lipid metabolism: potential therapeutic targets for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Cao Y(#)(1)(2)(3), Zhao LW(#)(4), Chen ZX(1)(2)(3), Li SH(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)NHC Key Laboratory of Prevention and Treatment of Cerebrovascular Diseases, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(3)Clinical Systems Biology Laboratories, Translation Medicine Center, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, 
China.
(4)Department of Cardiology, People's Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Henan 
Provincial People's Hospital, Zhengzhou University Central China Fuwai Hospital, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasingly recognized as being intertwined with 
the dysregulation of lipid metabolism. Lipids are a significant class of 
nutrients vital to all organisms, playing crucial roles in cellular structure, 
energy storage, and signaling. Alterations in the levels of various lipids in AD 
brains and dysregulation of lipid pathways and transportation have been 
implicated in AD pathogenesis. Clinically, evidence for a high-fat diet firmly 
links disrupted lipid metabolism to the pathogenesis and progression of AD, 
although contradictory findings warrant further exploration. In view of the 
significance of various lipids in brain physiology, the discovery of complex and 
diverse mechanisms that connect lipid metabolism with AD-related pathophysiology 
will bring new hope for patients with AD, underscoring the importance of lipid 
metabolism in AD pathophysiology, and promising targets for therapeutic 
intervention. Specifically, cholesterol, sphingolipids, and fatty acids have 
been shown to influence amyloid-beta (Aβ) accumulation and tau 
hyperphosphorylation, which are hallmarks of AD pathology. Recent studies have 
highlighted the potential therapeutic targets within lipid metabolism, such as 
enhancing apolipoprotein E lipidation, activating liver X receptors and retinoid 
X receptors, and modulating peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors. Ongoing 
clinical trials are investigating the efficacy of these strategies, including 
the use of ketogenic diets, statin therapy, and novel compounds like NE3107. The 
implications of these findings suggest that targeting lipid metabolism could 
offer new avenues for the treatment and management of AD. By concentrating on 
alterations in lipid metabolism within the central nervous system and their 
contribution to AD development, this review aims to shed light on novel research 
directions and treatment approaches for combating AD, offering hope for the 
development of more effective management strategies.

Copyright © 2024 Cao, Zhao, Chen and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1430465
PMCID: PMC11422391
PMID: 39323915

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


4. Curr Top Med Chem. 2025;25(3):286-310. doi: 
10.2174/0115680266322320240911194626.

Exploring the Therapeutic Potential of Glycyrrhiza Compounds in Alzheimer's 
Disease: A Comprehensive Review.

Song X(1)(2), Wang X(1)(2), Gao Y(3), Xu G(1)(2), Yan X(1)(2), Chen Z(1)(2), 
Song G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Shanxi Medical University, No. 56, 
Xinjian South Rd, Taiyuan, 030001, China.
(2)Laboratory Animal Center, Shanxi Medical University, No. 56, Xinjian South 
Rd, Taiyuan, 030001, China.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, First Hospital/First Clinical Medical College of 
Shanxi Medical University, No. 85 Jiefang South Rd, Taiyuan, 030001, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Research 
shows that the development of AD is linked to neuroinflammation, endoplasmic 
reticulum stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, cell death, and abnormal 
cholinergic signaling. Glycyrrhiza compounds contain active ingredients and 
extracts that offer multiple benefits, including targeting various pathways, 
high efficacy with low toxicity, and long-lasting therapeutic effects. These 
benefits highlight the significant potential of Glycyrrhiza compounds for 
preventing and treating AD. This review summarizes recent advancements in 
Glycyrrhiza compounds for preventing and treating AD. It focuses on their 
inhibitory effects on key signaling pathways, such as Toll-like receptor 4 
(TLR4), nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and 
cholinergic signaling. This study aims to establish a scientific framework for 
using Glycyrrhiza compounds in the clinical prevention and treatment of AD and 
to support the development of new therapeutic interventions.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115680266322320240911194626
PMID: 39323338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Brain. 2025 Mar 6;148(3):1015-1030. doi: 10.1093/brain/awae305.

High-dimensional proteomic analysis for pathophysiological classification of 
traumatic brain injury.

Li LM(1)(2), Kodosaki E(3)(4), Heslegrave A(3)(4), Zetterberg H(4)(5)(6), Graham 
N(1)(2), Zimmerman K(1)(2), Soreq E(1)(2), Parker T(1)(2), Garbero E(7), Moro 
F(8), Magnoni S(9), Bertolini G(7), Loane DJ(10)(11), Sharp DJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain Sciences, Imperial College London, London W12 0BZ, UK.
(2)UK Dementia Research Institute Centre for Care Research & Technology, 
Imperial College London and University of Surrey, London W12 0BZ, UK.
(3)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London 
WC1N 3BG, UK.
(4)UK Dementia Research Institute, UCL, London W1T 7NF, UK.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg 431 41, 
Sweden.
(6)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal 
413 45, Sweden.
(7)Department of Medical Epidemiology, Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario 
Negri IRCCS, Milan, Bergamo 21056, Italy.
(8)Department of Acute Brain and Cardiovascular Injury, Istituto di Ricerche 
Farmacologiche Mario Negri IRCCS, Milan, Bergamo 21056, Italy.
(9)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Pharmacy, University of Sassari, Sassari 
07100, Italy.
(10)School of Biochemistry and Immunology, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2, 
Ireland.
(11)Department of Anesthesiology and Shock, Trauma and Anesthesiology (STAR) 
Research Center, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21201, 
USA.

Pathophysiology and outcomes after traumatic brain injury (TBI) are complex and 
heterogeneous. Current classifications are uninformative about pathophysiology. 
Proteomic approaches with fluid-based biomarkers are ideal for exploring complex 
disease mechanisms, because they enable sensitive assessment of an expansive 
range of processes potentially relevant to TBI pathophysiology. We used novel 
high-dimensional, multiplex proteomic assays to assess altered plasma protein 
expression in acute TBI. We analysed samples from 88 participants from the 
BIO-AX-TBI cohort [n = 38 moderate-severe TBI (Mayo Criteria), n = 22 non-TBI 
trauma and n = 28 non-injured controls] on two platforms: Alamar NULISA™ CNS 
Diseases and OLINK® Target 96 Inflammation. Patient participants were enrolled 
after hospital admission, and samples were taken at a single time point ≤10 days 
post-injury. Participants also had neurofilament light, GFAP, total tau, UCH-L1 
(all Simoa®) and S100B (Millipore) data. The Alamar panel assesses 120 proteins, 
most of which were previously unexplored in TBI, plus proteins with known TBI 
specificity, such as GFAP. A subset (n = 29 TBI and n = 24 non-injured controls) 
also had subacute (10 days to 6 weeks post-injury) 3 T MRI measures of lesion 
volume and white matter injury (fractional anisotropy). Differential expression 
analysis identified 16 proteins with TBI-specific significantly different plasma 
expression. These were neuronal markers (calbindin 2, UCH-L1 and visinin-like 
protein 1), astroglial markers (S100B and GFAP), neurodegenerative disease 
proteins (total tau, pTau231, PSEN1, amyloid-beta-42 and 14-3-3γ), inflammatory 
cytokines (IL16, CCL2 and ficolin 2) and cell signalling- (SFRP1), cell 
metabolism- (MDH1) and autophagy-related (sequestome 1) proteins. Acute plasma 
levels of UCH-L1, PSEN1, total tau and pTau231 were correlated with subacute 
lesion volume. Sequestome 1 was positively correlated with white matter 
fractional anisotropy, whereas CCL2 was inversely correlated. Neuronal, 
astroglial, tau and neurodegenerative proteins were correlated with each other, 
IL16, MDH1 and sequestome 1. Exploratory clustering (k means) by acute protein 
expression identified three TBI subgroups that differed in injury patterns, but 
not in age or outcome. One TBI cluster had significantly lower white matter 
fractional anisotropy than control-predominant clusters but had significantly 
lower lesion subacute lesion volumes than another TBI cluster. Proteins that 
overlapped on two platforms had excellent (r > 0.8) correlations between values. 
We identified TBI-specific changes in acute plasma levels of proteins involved 
in neurodegenerative disease, inflammatory and cellular processes. These changes 
were related to patterns of injury, thus demonstrating that processes previously 
studied only in animal models are also relevant in human TBI pathophysiology. 
Our study highlights how proteomic approaches might improve classification and 
understanding of TBI pathophysiology, with implications for prognostication and 
treatment development.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awae305
PMCID: PMC11884744
PMID: 39323289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Alamar Biosciences provided complimentary 
testing of samples but were not involved in the analysis or interpretation of 
results or write-up of the manuscript. H.Z. has served on scientific advisory 
boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, 
Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics and Wave, has 
given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work). D.J.S. has received an honorarium from the 
Rugby Football Union for participation in an expert concussion panel. D.J.S. 
receives payment by Rugby Football Union, The Football Association and 
Premiership Rugby for private clinical services at the Institute of Sports 
Exercise and Health. There are no other conflicts of interest.


6. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2024 Sep 25;16(1):207. doi: 10.1186/s13195-024-01574-w.

Gene-variant specific effects of plasma amyloid-β levels in Swedish autosomal 
dominant Alzheimer disease.

Johansson C(1)(2), Thordardottir S(1), Laffita-Mesa J(1), Pannee J(3)(4), 
Rodriguez-Vieitez E(1), Zetterberg H(3)(4)(5)(6), Blennow K(3)(4)(7)(8), Graff 
C(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department NVS, Division of Neurogeriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, 
Karolinska Institutet, Visionsgatan 4, Bioclinicum, Solna, J10:20, 171 64, 
Sweden.
(2)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(3)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(7)Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(8)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, P.R. China.
(9)Department NVS, Division of Neurogeriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, 
Karolinska Institutet, Visionsgatan 4, Bioclinicum, Solna, J10:20, 171 64, 
Sweden. caroline.graff@ki.se.
(10)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden. caroline.graff@ki.se.

BACKGROUND: Several blood-based biomarkers offer the opportunity of in vivo 
detection of brain pathology and neurodegeneration in Alzheimer disease with 
high specificity and sensitivity, but the performance of amyloid-β (Aβ) 
measurements remains under evaluation. Autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease 
(ADAD) with mutations in PSEN1, PSEN2 and APP can be studied as a model for 
sporadic Alzheimer disease. However, clarifying the genetic effects on the 
Aβ-levels in different matrices such as cerebrospinal fluid or plasma is crucial 
for generalizability and utility of data. We aimed to explore plasma Aβ 
concentrations over the Alzheimer disease continuum in a longitudinal cohort of 
genetic Alzheimer disease.
METHODS: 92 plasma samples were collected from at-risk individuals (n = 47) in a 
Swedish cohort of ADAD, including 18 mutation carriers (13 APPswe 
(p.KM670/671NL) MC), 5 PSEN1 (p.H163Y) MC) and 29 non-carriers (NC) as the 
reference group. Concentrations of Aβ1-38, Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 were analyzed in 
plasma using immunoprecipitation coupled to tandem liquid chromatography mass 
spectrometry (IP-LC-MS/MS). Cross-sectional and repeated-measures data analyses 
were investigated family-wise, applying non-parametric tests as well as 
mixed-effects models.
RESULTS: Cross-sectional analysis at baseline showed more than a 3-fold increase 
in all plasma Aβ peptides in APPswe MC, regardless of clinical status, compared 
to controls (p < 0.01). PSEN1 (p.H163Y) presymptomatic MC had a decrease of 
plasma Aβ1-38 compared to controls (p < 0.05). There was no difference in 
Aβ1-42/1-40 ratio between APPswe MC (PMC and SMC), PSEN1 MC (PMC) and controls 
at baseline. Notably, both cross-sectional data and repeated-measures analysis 
suggested that APPswe MC have a stable Aβ1-42/1-40 ratio with increasing age, in 
contrast to the decrease seen with aging in both controls and PSEN1 (p.H163Y) 
MC.
CONCLUSION: These data show very strong mutation-specific effects on Aβ profiles 
in blood, most likely due to a ubiquitous production outside of the CNS. Hence, 
analyses in an unselected clinical setting might unintentionally disclose 
genetic status. Furthermore, our findings suggest that the Aβ ratio might be a 
poor indicator of brain Aβ pathology in selected genetic cases. The very small 
sample size is a limitation that needs to be considered but reflects the 
scarcity of longitudinal in vivo data from genetic cohorts.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-024-01574-w
PMCID: PMC11423518
PMID: 39322953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: HZ has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
KB has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, 
ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Neurimmune, 
Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has 
served at data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given 
lectures, produced educational materials and participated in educational 
programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; 
and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which 
is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in 
this paper. CJ, ST, ERV, JLM, JP and CG declare that they have no competing 
interests.


7. Magn Reson Imaging Clin N Am. 2024 Nov;32(4):681-698. doi: 
10.1016/j.mric.2024.03.001. Epub 2024 Jul 26.

Focused Ultrasound for Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Mehta RI(1), Ranjan M(2), Haut MW(3), Carpenter JS(4), Rezai AR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroradiology, Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute, West 
Virginia University; Department of Neuroscience, Rockefeller Neuroscience 
Institute, West Virginia University. Electronic address: 
Rashi.Mehta@hsc.wvu.edu.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute, West Virginia 
University.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute, West Virginia 
University; Department of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Rockefeller 
Neuroscience Institute, West Virginia University; Department of Neurology, 
Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute, West Virginia University.
(4)Department of Neuroradiology, Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute, West 
Virginia University; Department of Neuroscience, Rockefeller Neuroscience 
Institute, West Virginia University; Department of Neurosurgery, Rockefeller 
Neuroscience Institute, West Virginia University.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute, West Virginia 
University; Department of Neurosurgery, Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute, West 
Virginia University.

Neurodegenerative diseases are a leading cause of death and disability and pose 
a looming global public health crisis. Despite progress in understanding 
biological and molecular factors associated with these disorders and their 
progression, effective disease modifying treatments are presently limited. 
Focused ultrasound (FUS) is an emerging therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's 
disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In these 
contexts, applications of FUS include neuroablation, neuromodulation, and/or 
blood-brain barrier opening with and without facilitated intracerebral drug 
delivery. Here, the authors review preclinical evidence and current and emerging 
applications of FUS for neurodegenerative diseases and summarize future 
directions in the field.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mric.2024.03.001
PMID: 39322357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors have no relevant 
disclosures.


8. BMJ. 2024 Sep 25;386:q2010. doi: 10.1136/bmj.q2010.

Donanemab: Conflicts of interest found in FDA committee that approved new 
Alzheimer's drug.

Lenzer J, Brownlee S.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.q2010
PMID: 39322239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Commissioning and peer review: Commissioned; not 
externally peer reviewed. Competing interests: This investigation was produced 
in partnership with the McGraw Center for Business Journalism at City University 
of New York’s Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism.


9. Int J Biol Macromol. 2024 Sep 23;280(Pt 3):135826. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.135826. Online ahead of print.

Present and future use of exosomes containing proteins and RNAs in 
neurodegenerative diseases for synaptic function regulation: A comprehensive 
review.

Liu Z(1), Cheng L(2), Cao W(3), Shen C(1), Qiu Y(1), Li C(1), Xiong Y(4), Yang 
SB(5), Chen Z(6), Yin X(7), Zhang X(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Clinical Medical School of Jiujiang University, 
Jiujiang, Jiangxi 332000, China; Jiujiang Clinical Precision Medicine Research 
Center, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 332000, China.
(2)Jiujiang Clinical Precision Medicine Research Center, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 
332000, China; Department of Neurology, Clinical Medical School of Jiujiang 
University, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 332000, China.
(3)Jiujiang Clinical Precision Medicine Research Center, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 
332000, China; Department of Respiratory Medicine, Clinical Medical School of 
Jiujiang University, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 332000, China.
(4)Jiujiang Clinical Precision Medicine Research Center, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 
332000, China; Department of Rehabilitation, Clinical Medical School of Jiujiang 
University, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 332000, China.
(5)Department of Medical Non-commissioned Officer, Wonkwang Health Science 
University Iksan-si, Jeollabuk-do 54538, South Korea.
(6)Jiujiang Clinical Precision Medicine Research Center, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 
332000, China; Department of Neurology, Clinical Medical School of Jiujiang 
University, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 332000, China. Electronic address: 
zychenjj@jju.edu.cn.
(7)Jiujiang Clinical Precision Medicine Research Center, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 
332000, China; Department of Neurology, Clinical Medical School of Jiujiang 
University, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 332000, China. Electronic address: 
xiaopingbuxiao@126.com.
(8)Department of Pathology, Clinical Medical School of Jiujiang University, 
Jiujiang, Jiangxi 332000, China; Jiujiang Clinical Precision Medicine Research 
Center, Jiujiang, Jiangxi 332000, China. Electronic address: 
jjzhangxiaorong@163.com.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are increasingly prevalent with global aging, 
demanding effective treatments. Exosomes, which contain biological 
macromolecules such as RNA (including miRNAs) and proteins like α-synuclein, 
tau, and amyloid-beta, are gaining attention as innovative therapeutics. This 
comprehensive review systematically explores the potential roles of exosomes in 
NDDs, with a particular focus on their role in synaptic dysfunction. We present 
the synaptic pathophysiology of NDDs and discuss the mechanisms of exosome 
formation, secretion, and action. Subsequently, we review the roles of exosomes 
in different types of NDDs, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, 
with a special focus on their regulation of synaptic function. In addition, we 
explore the potential use of exosomes as biomarkers, as well as the challenges 
and opportunities in their clinical application. We provide perspectives on 
future research directions and development trends to provide a more 
comprehensive understanding of and guidance for the application of exosomes in 
the treatment of NDDs. In conclusion, exosomes rich in biological 
macromolecules, as a novel therapeutic strategy, have opened up new 
possibilities for the treatment of NDDs and brought new hope to patients.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.135826
PMID: 39322147

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


10. Behav Brain Res. 2025 Jan 5;476:115268. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2024.115268. Epub 
2024 Sep 23.

Remimazolam attenuates lipopolysaccharide-induced neuroinflammation and 
cognitive dysfunction.

Zhou L(1), Shi H(2), Xiao M(2), Liu W(2), Wang L(2), Zhou S(2), Chen S(3), Wang 
Y(4), Liu C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of University of 
South China, Hengyang, China; University of South China Hengyang Medical School 
Clinical Anatomy & Reproductive Medicine Application Institute, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of University of 
South China, Hengyang, China.
(3)University of South China Hengyang Medical School Clinical Anatomy & 
Reproductive Medicine Application Institute, China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of University of 
South China, Hengyang, China. Electronic address: 1609779291@qq.com.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of University of 
South China, Hengyang, China; Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology and Resuscitation 
(Huazhong University of Science and Technology), Ministry of Education, China. 
Electronic address: liuchengxi@sjtu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: Remimazolam, a novel benzodiazepine, is widely used as an anesthetic 
in endoscopic procedures; however, its effects on cognitive function remain 
unclear, limiting its broader application in general anaesthesia. 
Neuroinflammation is a well-established key factor in the etiology and 
progression of cognitive dysfunction, including conditions such as Alzheimer's 
disease, Parkinson's disease, postoperative delirium, and postoperative 
cognitive dysfunction. Preclinical studies have demonstrated that remimazolam 
exerts anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects, and clinical reports 
indicate a reduced incidence of postoperative delirium in patients treated with 
remimazolam. Nevertheless, whether remimazolam improves cognitive function 
through its anti-inflammatory properties remains uncertain. This study aimed to 
investigate the neuroprotective effects of remimazolam and its underlying 
mechanism in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced model of neuroinflammation, 
neuronal injury, and cognitive dysfunction METHODS: C57BL/6 J male mice were 
administered LPS intraperitoneally to establish a model of 
neuroinflammation-induced cognitive impairment. A subset of mice received 
remimazolam via intraperitoneal injection 30 minutes prior to LPS 
administration. Cognitive performance was evaluated using behavioural tests, 
including the Morris Water Maze (MWM), Novel Object Recognition (NOR) test, and 
Open Field Test (OFT). Hippocampal tissues were analyzed by haematoxylin-eosin 
(HE) staining to assess structural changes. Inflammatory markers, including 
Interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β, and tumor necrosis factor-α, were quantified using 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and real-time quantitative PCR. 
Immunofluorescence was used to detect translocator protein (TSPO) and markers of 
microglia activation (IBA-1, CD16/32, and CD206).
RESULTS: (1) Remimazolam reversed LPS-induced cognitive deficits, as evidenced 
by shorter spatial exploration latency and increased platform crossings in the 
MWM, and an elevated recognition index in the NOR test. (2) Remimazolam improved 
hippocampal morphology, reducing LPS-induced neuronal damage. (3) Remimazolam 
significantly decreased levels of hippocampal inflammatory cytokines, inhibited 
microglial activation, promoted M2-type microglia polarization, and increased 
TSPO expression.
CONCLUSION: Remimazolam demonstrated neuroprotective and anti-neuroinflammatory 
effects in a mouse model of LPS-induced cognitive impairment. These effects are 
likely mediated through the regulation of TSPO, which inhibits microglial 
activation and promotes the polarization of microglia from the pro-inflammatory 
M1 phenotype to the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2024.115268
PMID: 39322063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


11. Ageing Res Rev. 2024 Nov;101:102515. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102515. Epub
2024  Sep 24.

Microglia and gut microbiota: A double-edged sword in Alzheimer's disease.

Bano N(1), Khan S(1), Ahamad S(2), Kanshana JS(3), Dar NJ(4), Khan S(1), Nazir 
A(5), Bhat SA(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh 202002, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh 202002, India. 
Electronic address: shakirzaheer111@gmail.com.
(3)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, University 
of Pittsburg, PA, USA. Electronic address: jitendrakanshana@gmail.com.
(4)CNB, SALK Institute of Biological Sciences, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. 
Electronic address: nawabdar@gmail.com.
(5)Division of Neuroscience and Ageing Biology, CSIR-Central Drug Research 
Institute, Lucknow, UP, India; Academy of Scientific and Innovative 
Research, New Delhi, India. Electronic address: anazir@cdri.res.in.
(6)Department of Zoology, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh 202002, India. 
Electronic address: shahnawazalibhat@gmail.com.

The strong association between gut microbiota (GM) and brain functions such as 
mood, behaviour, and cognition has been well documented. Gut-brain axis is a 
unique bidirectional communication system between the gut and brain, in which 
gut microbes play essential role in maintaining various molecular and cellular 
processes. GM interacts with the brain through various pathways and processes 
including, metabolites, vagus nerve, HPA axis, endocrine system, and immune 
system to maintain brain homeostasis. GM dysbiosis, or an imbalance in GM, is 
associated with several neurological disorders, including anxiety, depression, 
and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Conversely, AD is sustained by microglia-mediated 
neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. Further, GM and their products also 
affect microglia-mediated neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. Despite the 
evidence connecting GM dysbiosis and AD progression, the involvement of GM in 
modulating microglia-mediated neuroinflammation in AD remains elusive. 
Importantly, deciphering the mechanism/s by which GM regulates 
microglia-dependent neuroinflammation may be helpful in devising potential 
therapeutic strategies to mitigate AD. Herein, we review the current evidence 
regarding the involvement of GM dysbiosis in microglia activation and 
neuroinflammation in AD. We also discuss the possible mechanisms through which 
GM influences the functioning of microglia and its implications for therapeutic 
intervention. Further, we explore the potential of microbiota-targeted 
interventions, such as prebiotics, probiotics, faecal microbiota 
transplantation, etc., as a novel therapeutic strategy to mitigate 
neuroinflammation and AD progression. By understanding and exploring the 
gut-brain axis, we aspire to revolutionize the treatment of neurodegenerative 
disorders, many of which share a common theme of microglia-mediated 
neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102515
PMID: 39321881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


12. Ageing Res Rev. 2024 Dec;102:102517. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102517. Epub
2024  Sep 24.

Advances in human cellular mechanistic understanding and drug discovery of brain 
organoids for neurodegenerative diseases.

Lei T(1), Zhang X(2), Fu G(3), Luo S(3), Zhao Z(3), Deng S(4), Li C(4), Cui 
Z(4), Cao J(4), Chen P(5), Yang H(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Disease and Syndromes Research, Institute of Basic Theory for 
Chinese Medicine, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 
100700, China. Electronic address: 1943579770@qq.com.
(2)Shanghai Institute of Precision Medicine, Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200125, China.
(3)Department of Disease and Syndromes Research, Institute of Basic Theory for 
Chinese Medicine, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 
100700, China.
(4)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100700, China.
(5)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100700, China; Hunan Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Complex Effects Analysis for Chinese Patent 
Medicine, Yongzhou, Hunan Province 425199, China. Electronic address: 
sdzpchenpeng@qq.com.
(6)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100700, China; Hunan Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Complex Effects Analysis for Chinese Patent 
Medicine, Yongzhou, Hunan Province 425199, China. Electronic address: 
hongjun0420@vip.sina.com.

The prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) is increasing rapidly as the 
aging population accelerates, and there are still no treatments to halt or 
reverse the progression of these diseases. While traditional 2D cultures and 
animal models fail to translate into effective therapies benefit patients, 3D 
cultured human brain organoids (hBOs) facilitate the use of non-invasive methods 
to capture patient data. The purpose of this study was to review the research 
and application of hBO in disease models and drug screening in NDs. The 
pluripotent stem cells are induced in multiple stages to form cerebral 
organoids, brain region-specific organoids and their derived brain cells, which 
exhibit complex brain-like structures and perform electrophysiological 
activities. The brain region-specific organoids and their derived neurons or 
glial cells contribute to the understanding of the pathogenesis of NDs and the 
efficient development of drugs, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, Huntington's disease and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Glial-rich 
brain organoids facilitate the study of glial function and neuroinflammation, 
including astrocytes, microglia, and oligodendrocytes. Further research on the 
maturation enhancement, vascularization and multi-organoid assembly of hBO will 
help to enhance the research and application of NDs cellular models.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102517
PMID: 39321879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


13. Int Immunopharmacol. 2024 Dec 5;142(Pt B):113222. doi: 
10.1016/j.intimp.2024.113222. Epub 2024 Sep 24.

GLP-1 analogue liraglutide attenuates CIH-induced cognitive deficits by 
inhibiting oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and apoptosis via the Nrf2/HO-1 
and MAPK/NF-κB signaling pathways.

Lv R(1), Zhao Y(1), Wang X(1), He Y(1), Dong N(1), Min X(1), Liu X(2), Yu Q(3), 
Yuan K(4), Yue H(5), Yin Q(6).

Author information:
(1)The First School of Clinical Medicine, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, 
China.
(2)Jinan Third People's Hospital, Jinan, Shandong 250132, China.
(3)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The First Hospital of 
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China.
(4)Peking University Sixth Hospital, Peking University Institute of Mental 
Health, NHC Key Laboratory of Mental Health (Peking University), National 
Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders (Peking University Sixth 
Hospital), Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences Research Unit (No. 2018RU006), 
Peking University, Beijing, China.
(5)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The First Hospital of 
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China. Electronic address: yhmlcsy@163.com.
(6)Department of Geriatric Neurology, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to 
Shandong First Medical University, Jinan 250021, China; Institute of Brain 
Science and Brain-inspired Research, Shandong First Medical University & 
Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, 250117 Jinan, Shandong, China. Electronic 
address: yinqingqing@sdfmu.edu.cn.

Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common clinical condition linked to cognitive 
impairment, mainly characterized by chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH). GLP-1 
receptor agonist, known for promoting insulin secretion and reducing glucose 
levels, has demonstrated neuroprotective effects in various experimental models 
such as stroke, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease. This study aims to 
investigate the potential role and mechanisms of the GLP-1 receptor agonist 
liraglutide in ameliorating OSA-induced cognitive deficits. CIH exposure, a 
well-established and mature OSA pathological model, was used both in vitro and 
in vivo. In vitro, CIH significantly activated oxidative stress, inflammation, 
and apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells. Liraglutide enhanced the nuclear translocation 
of Nrf2, activating its downstream pathways, thereby mitigating CIH-induced 
injury in SH-SY5Y cells. Additionally, liraglutide modulated the MAPK/NF-κB 
signaling pathway, reducing the expression of inflammatory factors and proteins. 
In vivo, we subjected mice to an intermittent hypoxia incubator to mimic the 
pathogenesis of human OSA. The Morris water maze test revealed that CIH exposure 
substantially impaired spatial memory. Subsequent western blot analyses and 
histopathological examinations indicated that liraglutide could activate the 
Nrf2/HO-1 axis and inhibit the MAPK/NF-κB signaling pathway, thereby alleviating 
OSA-associated cognitive dysfunction in mice. These findings suggest that GLP-1 
receptor agonists may offer a promising preventive strategy for OSA-associated 
cognitive impairment. By refining these findings, we provide new insights into 
GLP-1's protective mechanisms in combating cognitive deficits associated with 
CIH, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic agent for conditions linked to 
OSA.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2024.113222
PMID: 39321702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


14. J Psychiatr Res. 2024 Nov;179:244-256. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2024.09.022.
 Epub 2024 Sep 20.

Unveiling the theranostic potential of SPIONs in Alzheimer's disease management.

Aminyavari S(1), Afshari AR(2), Ahmadi SS(3), Kesharwani P(4), Sanati M(5), 
Sahebkar A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies, School of Advanced 
Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Basic Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad Medical Sciences, 
Islamic Azad ‎University, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Imam Reza Hospital, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi 110062, India. Electronic address: 
prashantdops@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Birjand 
University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran; Experimental and Animal Study 
Center, Birjand University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran. Electronic 
address: sanati-m@bums.ac.ir.
(6)Center for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical College and Hospitals, 
Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Saveetha University, 
Chennai, India; Biotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology 
Institute, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Applied 
Biomedical Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 
Iran. Electronic address: amir_saheb2000@yahoo.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating kind of dementia that is becoming more 
common worldwide. Toxic amyloid-beta (Aβ) aggregates are the primary cause of AD 
onset and development. Superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) have 
received a lot of interest in AD therapy over the last decade because of their 
ability to redirect the Aβ fibrillation process and improve associated brain 
dysfunction. The potential diagnostic application of SPIONs in AD has 
dramatically increased this interest. Furthermore, surface-modified engineered 
SPIONs function as drug carriers to improve the efficacy of current therapies. 
Various preclinical and clinical studies on the role of SPIONs in AD pathology 
have produced encouraging results. However, due to their physicochemical 
properties (e.g., size, surface charge, and particle concentration) in the 
biological milieu, SPIONs may play the role of a preventive or accelerative 
agent in AD. Even though SPIONs are potential therapeutic and diagnostic options 
in AD, significant efforts are still needed to overcome the inconsistencies and 
safety concerns. This review evaluated the current understanding of how various 
SPIONs interact with AD models and explored the discrepancies in their efficacy 
and safety.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2024.09.022
PMID: 39321523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


15. JMIR Form Res. 2024 Sep 25;8:e56878. doi: 10.2196/56878.

Ascertaining Out-of-Pocket Costs of Dementia Care: Feasibility Study of a 
Web-Based Weekly Survey.

Dawson WD(1)(2)(3), Mattek N(1)(3), Gothard S(1)(3), Kaye J(1)(3), Lindauer 
A(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine, Oregon Health 
& Science University, Portland, OR, United States.
(2)Global Brain Health Institute, University of California, San Francisco, CA, 
United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Oregon Health & Science 
University, Portland, OR, United States.
(4)School of Nursing, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, United 
States.

BACKGROUND: Caring for a family member living with dementia is costly. A major 
contributor to care demands, and therefore to the costs, are the behavioral 
symptoms of dementia. Here, we examine the feasibility of ascertaining costs 
related to caregiving from weekly web-based surveys collected during a 
telehealth-based behavioral intervention study-Support via Technology: Living 
and Learning with Advancing Alzheimer Disease.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to determine the feasibility and acceptability of 
using a web-based weekly survey to capture real-time data on out-of-pocket 
caregiving expenses and time commitments associated with dementia care. To 
examine relationships between behavioral symptoms, care partner reactivity, 
burden, and out-of-pocket dementia care costs.
METHODS: Feasibility was measured by accrual, retention, and data completion by 
participating care partners. Behavioral symptoms, care partner reactivity, and 
burden were collected before and after the intervention from 13 care partners. 
Weekly web-based surveys queried Support via Technology: Living and Learning 
with Advancing Alzheimer Disease care partners about their out-of-pocket costs 
associated with care-related activities. The surveys included questions on 
out-of-pocket costs care partners incurred from hospitalizations and emergency 
department use, primary care provider visits, use of paid in-home care or 
respite services, use of prescription medications, and use of over-the-counter 
medications. The surveys also queried the amount of time care partners devoted 
to these specific care-related activities.
RESULTS: Out-of-pocket costs of dementia care were collected via a web-based 
weekly survey for up to 18 months. In-home assistance was the most frequently 
reported type of out-of-pocket care expense and the costliest. care partners who 
paid for in-home assistance or respite reported more behavioral and 
psychological symptoms of dementia behaviors, higher reactivity, and higher 
burden than those who did not.
CONCLUSIONS: This novel web-based weekly survey-based approach offers lessons 
for designing and implementing future cost-focused studies and care 
partner-supportive telehealth-based interventions for Alzheimer disease and 
related dementias (ADRD). The results correspond with the existing understanding 
of ADRD in that high family-related out-of-pocket costs are a typical part of 
the caregiving experience, and those costs likely increase with dementia 
severity. The results may also offer potential insights to health systems and 
policy makers as they seek to implement telehealth-based and related 
interventions that seek to better support people living with ADRD and their 
family care partners.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04335110; 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04335110.

©Walter D Dawson, Nora Mattek, Sarah Gothard, Jeffrey Kaye, Allison Lindauer. 
Originally published in JMIR Formative Research (https://formative.jmir.org), 
25.09.2024.

DOI: 10.2196/56878
PMCID: PMC11464940
PMID: 39321453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: WDD reports grant funding 
and contracts from the Alzheimer's Association/Global Brain Health Institute 
(GBHI ALZ UK-20-640170), Latin American Brain Health Institute (BL-SRGP2021-03), 
American Nurses Foundation (Izumi: PI), Oregon Health Authority (Interagency 
Agreements #171319, #18151, #181488, and #179517), and Health Resources & 
Services Administration (Byerly: PI; U1Q53044), all outside of this work. JK has 
(in the past 2 years) received research support awarded to his institution, 
Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU), from the NIH, NSF, and AbbVie. He has 
been directly compensated for serving on a Data Monitoring Committee for Eli 
Lilly, as a consultant to Boston Scientific, and as an external Advisory 
Committee member for the Rush and Stanford University Alzheimer's Disease 
Research Centers. He receives reimbursement through Medicare or commercial 
insurance plans for providing clinical assessment and care for patients. He 
serves on the editorial advisory board and as review editor of the journal, 
Alzheimer's & Dementia and as associate editor for the Journal of Translational 
Engineering in Health and Medicine. OHSU and has a financial interest in Life 
Analytics, Inc, a company that is developing remote monitoring software 
technology not used in this research study. The nature of this financial 
interest relative to this study has been reviewed by the Research Integrity 
Office at OHSU. A plan is in place to help ensure that this research study is 
not affected by financial interest. No other authors have interests to declare. 
JK has (in the past 2 years) received research support awarded to his 
institution, Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU), from the NIH, NSF, and 
AbbVie. He has been directly compensated for serving on a Data Monitoring 
Committee for Eli Lilly, as a consultant to Boston Scientific, and as an 
external Advisory Committee member for the Rush and Stanford University 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Centers. He receives reimbursement through Medicare 
or commercial insurance plans for providing clinical assessment and care for 
patients. He serves on the editorial advisory board and as review editor of the 
journal, Alzheimer's & Dementia and as associate editor for the Journal of 
Translational Engineering in Health and Medicine. OHSU and has a financial 
interest in Life Analytics, Inc, a company that is developing remote monitoring 
software technology not used in this research study. The nature of this 
financial interest relative to this study has been reviewed by the Research 
Integrity Office at OHSU. A plan is in place to help ensure that this research 
study is not affected by financial interest. No other authors have interests to 
declare.


16. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):8331-8345. doi: 10.1002/alz.14260. Epub
2024  Sep 25.

Effectiveness of electro-acupuncture for cognitive improvement on Alzheimer's 
disease quantified via PET imaging of sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1.

Wang L(1)(2)(3), Bi L(2)(3), Qiu Y(2)(3), Huang G(2)(3), Ye P(2)(3), Liu 
Y(2)(3), Li A(1), Yang X(1), Shen P(4), Wang J(5), Zeng Q(1), Zhang H(1), Li 
S(1)(2), Jin H(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chinese Medicine Oncology, Cancer Center, The Fifth Affiliated 
Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Zhuhai, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Engineering Research Center of Molecular Imaging, The 
Fifth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Zhuhai, China.
(3)Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao University Joint Laboratory of Interventional 
Medicine, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Zhuhai, China.
(4)Pharmaceutical Clinical Trails Office, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Zhuhai, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Zhuhai, China.

INTRODUCTION: Electro-acupuncture (EA) has demonstrated potential in improving 
mild-to-moderate dementia in clinics, but the underlying scientific target 
remains unclear.
METHODS: EA was administered to APP/PS1 Alzheimer's disease (AD) mice, with 
untreated AD, and wild type (WT) mice serving as controls. The efficacy of EA 
was assessed by the Morris water maze cognitive functional tests. Brain magnetic 
resonance imaging-positron emission tomography (PET) scans using [18F]TZ4877 
targeting sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1PR1) and [18F]AV45 targeting 
amyloid beta fibrils were conducted. The correlation between regional brain PET 
quantifications and cognitive functions was analyzed.
RESULTS: EA significantly improved cognitive and memory functions of AD (p  = 
0.04) and reduced the uptake of [18F]TZ4877 in the cortex (p  = 0.02) and 
hippocampus (p  = 0.03). Immunofluorescence confirmed colocalizations of S1PR1 
with glial fibrillary acidic protein and ionized calcium-binding adaptor 
molecule-1. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry showed a significant reduction of 
interleukin 1β and tumor necrosis factor α after EA treatment.
DISCUSSION: EA may reverse AD by suppressing neuroinflammation, and the PET 
imaging of S1PR1 seemed potent in evaluating the treatment for AD patients 
HIGHLIGHTS: Electro-acupuncture (EA) was administered to APP/PS1 Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) mice, with untreated AD, and wild type (WT) mice serving as 
controls. The efficacy of EA was assessed by the Morris water maze cognitive 
functional tests and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging quantifications. 
PET tracer [18F]AV45 was used to detect amyloid beta deposition. An increased 
uptake of [18F]AV45 was found in AD compared to WT mice, with significance 
observed only in the cortex and not in the hippocampus. EA treatment exhibited a 
trend toward reduced [18F]AV45 uptake in AD mouse brains post-treatment. 
However, statistical difference was not attained in most brain regions. EA 
"Baihui (DU20) and Sishencong (EX-HN1)" significantly improved cognitive and 
memory functions of AD (p = 0.04). Brain magnetic resonance imaging 
p(MRI)-positron emission tomography (PET) quantifications revealed that 
significantly reduced the uptake of [18F]TZ4877 in the cortex (p = 0.02) and 
hippocampus (p = 0.03) after EA treatment. The correlation between PET 
quantifications and cognitive functions was analyzed and the most notable 
correlations were found between escape latency (reaction cognitive and memory 
behavior) and volume distribution (VT) quantifications of [18F]TZ4877. VT 
quantifications of [18F]TZ4877 in key brain regions for cognitive and memory 
ability, such as the cortex and hippocampus, positively correlated with platform 
latency (cortex p < 0.01, r = 0.7102; hippocampus p < 0.01, r = 0.6891). 
Immunofluorescence confirmed colocalizations of S1PR1 with glial fibrillary 
acidic protein and ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule-1 in the AD brain. 
And the EA treatment significantly reduced the signals in the cortex and 
hippocampus. Immunohistochemistry showed a significant reduction of interleukin 
1β and tumor necrosis factor α after EA treatment. EA reversed AD by suppressing 
neuroinflammation in the cortex and hippocampus. The S1PR1 targeting PET tracer 
[18F]TZ4877 showed promise in evaluating the pathological progression of AD in 
clinical settings.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14260
PMCID: PMC11667549
PMID: 39320044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare no financial interests or 
potential competing interests. A patent is pending regarding this new method for 
evaluation of the EA treatment (No. 202311832723.3). No other potential 
conflicts of interest relevant to this article exist. Author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


17. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Nov;20(11):7745-7761. doi: 10.1002/alz.14237. Epub
2024  Sep 25.

Reversibility of cognitive worsening observed with BACE inhibitor umibecestat in 
the Alzheimer's Prevention Initiative (API) Generation Studies.

Tariot PN(1)(2)(3), Riviere ME(4), Salloway S(5), Burns JM(6), Snaedal JG(7), 
Borowsky B(8), Lopez CL(4), Liu F(8), Rouzade-Dominguez ML(4), Cazorla P(8), 
Mousseau MC(9), Arkuszewski M(4), Ricart J(10), Viglietta V(11), Sui Y(8), 
Caputo A(4), Langbaum JB(12), Reiman EM(1)(2)(3)(13)(14), Graf A(4).

Author information:
(1)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Arizona College of Medicine, Phoenix, 
Arizona, USA.
(3)Arizona Alzheimer's Consortium, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(4)Clinical Development, Neuroscience, Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland.
(5)Neurology and the Memory and Aging Program, Butler Hospital, Providence, 
Rhode Island, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, Mission, Kansas, USA.
(7)Memory Clinic, Landspitali University Hospital, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(8)Clinical development, Neuroscience, Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, 
New Jersey, USA.
(9)Global Business Solutions, Neuroscience, Novartis Ireland Ltd, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(10)Clinical Development, Neuroscience, Novartis Farmaceutica, S.A., Barcelona, 
Spain.
(11)Amgen Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(12)Department of Neurology, University of Arizona College of Medicine, Phoenix, 
Arizona, USA.
(13)ASU-Banner Neurodegenerative Research Center, Arizona State University, 
Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(14)Neurogenomics Division, Translational Genomics Research Institute, Phoenix, 
Arizona, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The Alzheimer's Prevention Initiative (API) Generation Studies 
evaluated the BACE inhibitor umibecestat for Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
prevention. The studies were terminated early, and the reversibility of 
umibecestat's side effects was assessed.
METHODS: Cognitively unimpaired 60- to 75-year-old apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 
homozygotes and heterozygotes (the latter with elevated brain amyloid 
deposition) (n = 1556) received umibecestat (50 or 15 mg daily) or placebo for 7 
months on average and were followed for a median (interquartile range) of 4 (3 
to 6) months after washout.
RESULTS: Compared to placebo, umibecestat-treated participants had small, 
non-progressive, but statistically significant decline in performance on certain 
cognitive batteries including Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of 
Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) and API Preclinical Composite Cognitive test, 
but not Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of Boxes. RBANS differences were no longer 
significant at the end of follow-up.
DISCUSSION: In people at genetic risk for AD, high-dose beta-site amyloid 
precursor protein cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibition was associated with early 
mild cognitive worsening, which reversed shortly after washout, suggesting a 
symptomatic side effect not associated with neurodegeneration. Fully anonymized 
data, images, and samples are available upon request for further research on 
BACE inhibition.
HIGHLIGHTS: This is the first trial with blinded assessment of reversibility of 
BACE inhibitor side effects. Umibecestat was tested in cognitively unimpaired 
persons at genetic risk for AD. Umibecestat led to early mild cognitive decline 
that reversed shortly after washout. This suggests a potentially manageable 
effect not associated with neurodegeneration. Further research may determine the 
future of BACE inhibition in AD prevention.

© 2024 Novartis Pharma AG. Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14237
PMCID: PMC11567862
PMID: 39320017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Stephen Salloway has received grants from 
Biogen, Eisai, Genentech, Roche, Novartis, and Eli Lilly; personal fees from 
Biogen, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Novartis, Genentech, NovoNordisk, Prothena, AbbVie, 
Kisbee, Acumen, CognitionRX, and Roche; non‐financial support from Biogen, 
Lilly, Acumen, Abbvie, and Roche; and was a site investigator for the Generation 
studies and co‐chair of the investigator steering committee for the ENGAGE 
study. Jeffrey M. Burns has received research support to conduct clinical trials 
(paid to his institution) from Eli Lilly, Amylyx Pharmaceuticals, Biogen, 
AbbVie, AstraZeneca, and Roche and has served as a consultant for Renew 
Research, Amylyx Pharmaceuticals, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Labcorp, New Amsterdam 
Pharma, and Renew Biotechnologies. Jón G. Snaeda has received consulting fees 
from Novartis. Vissia Viglietta was a full‐time employee of Amgen at the time of 
the study and is currently an employee of Nido Biosciences, which was not 
involved in this study. Pierre N. Tariot, Eric M. Reiman, and Jessica B. 
Langbaum are full‐time employees of Banner Health. Banner Health received 
financial support from Novartis Pharma AG and Amgen for the conduct of the API 
Generation Program, from Eli Lilly for the conduct of another Alzheimer's 
prevention trial, and from Genentech/Roche for another Alzheimer's prevention 
trial. Pierre N. Tariot reports receiving grants from the National Institute on 
Aging (NIA) (UF1AG046150, RF1 AG041705, R01AG055444, and 1R01AG058468) and 
received consulting fees from AbbVie, AC Immune, Acadia, Axsome, Biogen, 
BioXcel, Cortexyme, Eisai, Genentech, Lundbeck, Otsuka & Astex, Merck & Co., 
Novo Nordisk, Syneos, and T3D Therapeutics. Eric M. Reiman reports receiving 
grants from the NIA (1UF1AG046150, RF1AG041705, R01AG05544, 1R01AG058468, 
P30AG19610, and P30AG072980). He is a compensated scientific advisor for 
Alzheon, Aural Analytics, Denali, Retromer Therapeutics, and Vaxxinity and an 
uncompensated advisor to Biogen and Eli Lilly. He is a co‐founder, advisor, and 
shareholder in ALZPath. Jessica B. Langbaum reports receiving grants from NIA 
(1UF1AG046150, RF1AG041705, R01AG05544, 1R01AG058468, and P30AG072980) and 
received consulting fees from Alector, Biogen, Denovo Biopharma, and Provoc. 
Marie‐Emmanuelle Riviere, Beth Borowsky, Fonda Liu, Marie‐Laure 
Rouzade‐Dominguez, Pilar Cazorla, Marie‐Catherine Mousseau, Michal Arkuszewski, 
Javier Ricart, Yihan Sui, Angelika Caputo, and Ana Graf are employees of and 
shareholders in Novartis. This research was sponsored by Novartis Pharma AG, 
Basel, Switzerland. Cristina Lopez Lopez was a full‐time employee of Novartis 
Pharma AG at the time of the study and is currently an employee of Roche, which 
was not involved in this study. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


18. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Nov;20(11):7762-7776. doi: 10.1002/alz.14238. Epub
2024  Sep 25.

MEDI1814 selectively reduces free Aβ42 in cerebrospinal fluid of non-clinical 
species and Alzheimer's disease patients.

Lloyd C(1), Freskgård PO(2), Newton P(1), Lowne D(1), Nickson A(1), Bogstedt 
A(3), Eketjäll S(3), Höglund K(4), Gustavsson S(3), Welsh F(1), Chessell T(1), 
McFarlane M(1), Bhat RV(3), Turner R(1), Perkinton MS(1), Santisteban Valencia 
Z(3), Lindqvist E(3), Pomfret M(1), Dudley AD(1), Vaughan TJ(1), Groves MT(1), 
Natanegara F(5), Feng Y(5), Sims JR(5), Proctor NK(5), Dage JL(5)(6), Shering 
C(7), Tan K(1), Ostenfeld T(1), Billinton A(1), Chessell IP(1).

Author information:
(1)BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, UK.
(2)BioArctic AB, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)Center for Medical Genomics, Department of Clinical Genetics and Genomics, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden.
(5)Lilly Corporate Center, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
Indiana, USA.
(7)BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Small molecules and antibodies are being developed to lower 
amyloid beta (Aβ) peptides.
METHODS: We describe MEDI1814, a fully human high-affinity monoclonal antibody 
selective for Aβ42, the pathogenic self-aggregating species of Aβ.
RESULTS: MEDI1814 reduces free Aβ42 without impacting Aβ40 in the cerebrospinal 
fluid of rats and cynomolgus monkeys after systemic administration. MEDI1814 
administration to patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD; n = 57) in single or 
repeat doses up to 1800 mg intravenously or 200 mg subcutaneously was associated 
with a favorable safety and tolerability profile. No cases of amyloid-related 
imaging abnormalities were observed. Predictable dose-proportional changes in 
serum exposures for MEDI1814 were observed across cohorts. Cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) analysis demonstrated central nervous system penetration of MEDI1814. 
Pharmacodynamic data showed dose-dependent suppression of free Aβ42, increases 
in total (bound and free) Aβ42, but no change in total Aβ40 in CSF across doses.
DISCUSSION: MEDI1814 offers a differentiated approach to impacting Aβ in AD via 
selective reduction of free Aβ42.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14238
PMCID: PMC11567870
PMID: 39319998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CL, PN, DL, AN, ABo, SE, SG, FW, TC, MMcF, RVB, 
RT, MSP, ZSV, EL, MP, ADD, TJV, MTG, CS, KT, TO, IPC, and ABi are either current 
or former employees of AstraZeneca, and either own or owned shares/options in 
AstraZeneca. P‐OF is an inventor on patents or patent applications. FN, YF, JRS, 
NKP, and JLD are current or former employees of Eli Lilly. JLD is an inventor on 
patents or patent applications of Eli Lilly and Company relating to the assays, 
methods, reagents and / or compositions of matter for p‐tau assays. JLD has 
served as a consultant or on advisory boards for Eisai, Abbvie, Genotix 
Biotechnologies Inc, Gates Ventures, Karuna Therapeutics, AlzPath Inc., Cognito 
Therapeutics, Inc., and received research support from ADx Neurosciences, 
Fujirebio, AlzPath Inc., Roche Diagnostics, and Eli Lilly and Company in the 
past 2 years. JLD has received speaker fees from Eli Lilly and Company. JLD is a 
founder and advisor for Monument Biosciences. JLD has stock or stock options in 
Eli Lilly and Company, Genotix Biotechnologies, AlzPath Inc., and Monument 
Biosciences. MEDI1814 is covered by PCT patent application WO2014060444. KH has 
nothing to declare. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


19. iScience. 2024 Sep 3;27(10):110875. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.110875.
eCollection  2024 Oct 18.

Few-shot meta-learning applied to whole brain activity maps improves systems 
neuropharmacology and drug discovery.

Luo X(1)(2)(3), Ding Y(2)(4), Cao Y(5), Liu Z(1), Zhang W(1), Zeng S(2), Cheng 
SH(5), Li H(6), Haggarty SJ(7), Wang X(8), Zhang J(2)(3), Shi P(1)(2)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon 
999077, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(2)National Center for Applied Mathematics Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518000, China.
(3)Department of Mathematics, Southern University of Science and Technology, 
Shenzhen 518055, China.
(4)Institute of Applied Mathematics, Shenzhen Polytechnic University, Shenzhen 
518055, China.
(5)Department of Biomedical Sciences, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon 
999077, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(6)Innovation Center for AI and Drug Discovery, East China Normal University, 
Shanghai 200062, China.
(7)Chemical Neurobiology Laboratory, Precision Therapeutics Unit, Center for 
Genomic Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Department of Neurology, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(8)Department of Surgery, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Kowloon 999077, Hong 
Kong SAR, China.
(9)Shenzhen Research Institute, City University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen 518057, 
China.

In this study, we present an approach to neuropharmacological research by 
integrating few-shot meta-learning algorithms with brain activity mapping 
(BAMing) to enhance the discovery of central nervous system (CNS) therapeutics. 
By utilizing patterns from previously validated CNS drugs, our approach 
facilitates the rapid identification and prediction of potential drug candidates 
from limited datasets, thereby accelerating the drug discovery process. The 
application of few-shot meta-learning algorithms allows us to adeptly navigate 
the challenges of limited sample sizes prevalent in neuropharmacology. The study 
reveals that our meta-learning-based convolutional neural network (Meta-CNN) 
models demonstrate enhanced stability and improved prediction accuracy over 
traditional machine-learning methods. Moreover, our BAM library proves 
instrumental in classifying CNS drugs and aiding in pharmaceutical repurposing 
and repositioning. Overall, this research not only demonstrates the 
effectiveness in overcoming data limitations but also highlights the significant 
potential of combining BAM with advanced meta-learning techniques in CNS drug 
discovery.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.110875
PMCID: PMC11419810
PMID: 39319265

Conflict of interest statement: P.S. is listed as an inventor on a patent (US 
9,897,593) filed by the City University of Hong Kong describing the system for 
automated handling of larval zebrafish. S.J.H. has served or serves on the 
advisory board of Proximity Therapeutics, Psy Therapeutics, Frequency 
Therapeutics, Souvien Therapeutics, Sensorium Therapeutics, 4M Therapeutics, 
Ilios Therapeutics, Entheos Labs, the Alzheimer’s Disease Drug Discovery 
Foundation, and the Kissick Family Foundation FTD grant program, none of whom 
were involved in the present study. S.J.H. has also received speaking or 
consulting fees from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Merck, Regenacy 
Pharmaceuticals, Syros Pharmaceuticals, and Juvenescence Life, as well as 
sponsored research or gift funding from AstraZeneca, JW Pharmaceuticals, Lexicon 
Pharmaceuticals, Vesigen Therapeutics, Compass Pathways, Atai Life Sciences, and 
Stealth Biotherapeutics. The funders had no role in the design or content of 
this article or the decision to submit this review for publication.


20. World J Psychiatry. 2024 Sep 19;14(9):1404-1410. doi:
10.5498/wjp.v14.i9.1404.  eCollection 2024 Sep 19.

Effectiveness of anti-psychiatric treatment on visual and haptic perceptual 
disorder for a patient with Alzheimer's disease: A case report.

Xu T(1), Mei X(1), Zhao Z(1), Liu YH(1), Zheng CY(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Affiliated Kangning Hospital of Ningbo University, 
Ningbo 315201, Zhejiang Province, China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Affiliated Kangning Hospital of Ningbo University, 
Ningbo 315201, Zhejiang Province, China. zhengchengying@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Perception is frequently impaired in patients with Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Several patients exhibit visual or haptic hallucinations.
CASE SUMMARY: A 71-year-old Chinese man presented with visual and haptic 
hallucinations he had been experiencing for 2 weeks. The clinical manifestations 
were the feeling of insects crawling and biting the limbs and geison. He looked 
for the insects while itching and scratching, which led to skin breakage on the 
limbs. He was treated with topical and anti-allergic drugs in several 
dermatology departments without any significant improvement. After admission, 
the patient was administered risperidone (0.5 mg) and duloxetine (2 mg/day). One 
week later, the dose of risperidone was increased to 2 mg/day, and that of 
duloxetine was increased to 60 mg/day. After 2 weeks of treatment, the patient's 
sensation of insects crawling and biting disappeared, and his mood stabilized.
CONCLUSION: This patient manifested psychiatric behavioral symptoms caused by AD 
brain atrophy. It was important to re-evaluate the patient's 
cognitive-psychological status when the patient repeatedly went to the hospital 
for treatment. Follow-up attention to cognitive function and the consideration 
of perceptual deficits as early manifestations of AD should be considered.

©The Author(s) 2024. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.5498/wjp.v14.i9.1404
PMCID: PMC11417658
PMID: 39319233

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


21. Brain Commun. 2024 Sep 11;6(5):fcae307. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae307. 
eCollection 2024.

3T sodium-MRI as predictor of neurocognition in nondemented older adults: a 
cross sectional study.

Lui E(1)(2), Venkatraman VK(1)(2), Finch S(3), Chua M(2), Li TQ(4), Sutton 
BP(5)(6), Steward CE(1)(2), Moffat B(1), Cyarto EV(7), Ellis KA(8)(9), Rowe 
CC(10)(11), Masters CL(11), Lautenschlager NT(8)(12), Desmond PM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, 3050 
Victoria, Australia.
(2)Department of Medical Imaging, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, 3050 
Victoria, Australia.
(3)Statistical Consulting Centre, University of Melbourne, Parkville, 3010 
Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Clinical Science, Intervention and Technology, Karolinska 
Institute, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Beckman Institute for Advance Science and Technology, University of Illinois 
at Urbana Champaign, Champaign, IL 61801, USA.
(6)Department of Bioengineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
Champaign, IL 61820, USA.
(7)Australian Centre for Health Services Innovation and Centre for Healthcare 
Transformation, School of Public Health and Social Work, Faculty of Health, 
Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland 4059, Australia.
(8)Academic Unit for Psychiatry of Old Age, Department of Psychiatry, The 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 3010 Victoria, Australia.
(9)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, 3010 Victoria, Australia.
(10)Department of Molecular Imaging and Therapy, Austin Health, Melbourne, 3084 
Victoria, Australia.
(11)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, 3052 Victoria, Australia.
(12)Royal Melbourne Hospital Mental Health Service, Royal Melbourne Hospital, 
Parkville, Melbourne, 3052 Victoria, Australia.

Dementia is a burgeoning global problem. Novel magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
metrics beyond volumetry may bring new insight and aid clinical trial evaluation 
of interventions early in the Alzheimer's disease course to complement existing 
imaging and clinical metrics. To determine whether: (i) normalized regional 
sodium-MRI values (Na-SI) are better predictors of neurocognitive status than 
volumetry (ii) cerebral amyloid PET status improves modelling. Nondemented older 
adult (>60 years) volunteers of known Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale 
(ADAS-Cog11), Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Consortium to Establish a 
Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) neurocognitive test scores, 
ApolipoproteinE (APOE) e4 +/- cerebral amyloid PET status were prospectively 
recruited for 3T sodium-MRI brain scans. Left and right hippocampal, entorhinal 
and precuneus volumes and Na-SI (using the proportional intensity scaling 
normalization method with field inhomogeneity and partial volume corrections) 
were obtained after segmentation and co-registration of 3D-T1-weighted proton 
images. Descriptive statistics, correlation and best-subset regression analyses 
were performed. In our 76 nondemented participants (mean(standard deviation) age 
75(5) years; woman 47(62%); cognitively unimpaired 54/76(71%), mildly 
cognitively impaired 22/76(29%)), left hippocampal Na-SI, not volume, was 
preferentially in the best models for predicting MMSE (Odds Ratio (OR) = 
0.19(Confidence Interval (CI) = 0.07,0.53), P-value = 0.001) and ADAS-Cog11 
(Beta(B) = 1.2(CI = 0.28,2.1), P-value = 0.01) scores. In the entorhinal 
analysis, right entorhinal Na-SI, not volume, was preferentially selected in the 
best model for predicting ADAS-Cog11 (B = 0.94(CI = 0.11,1.8), P-value = 0.03). 
While right entorhinal Na-SI and volume were both selected for MMSE modelling 
(Na-SI OR = 0.23(CI = 0.09,0.6), P-value = 0.003; volume OR = 2.6(CI = 1.0,6.6), 
P-value = 0.04), independently, Na-SI explained more of the variance (Na-SI R 2 
= 10.3; volume R 2 = 7.5). No imaging variable was selected in the best CERAD 
models. Adding cerebral amyloid status improved model fit (Akaike Information 
Criterion increased 2.0 for all models, P-value < 0.001-0.045). Regional Na-SI 
were more predictive of MMSE and ADAS-Cog11 scores in our nondemented older 
adult cohort than volume, hippocampal more robust than entorhinal region of 
interest. Positive amyloid status slightly further improved model fit.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae307
PMCID: PMC11420980
PMID: 39318783

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests.


22. Dement Neuropsychol. 2024 Sep 23;18:e20230116. doi: 
10.1590/1980-5764-DN-2023-0116. eCollection 2024.

Vascular cognitive impairment and dementia: a narrative review.

Jiménez-Ruiz A(1), Aguilar-Fuentes V(1), Becerra-Aguiar NN(1), Roque-Sanchez 
I(1), Ruiz-Sandoval JL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Stroke & Cerebrovascular Disease Clinic, Hospital Civil Fray Antonio Alcalde, 
Neurology Department, Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.
(2)Universidad de Guadalajara, Centro Universitario de Ciencias de la Salud, 
Departamento de Neurociencias, Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.

Vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) is the second most common cause of cognitive 
impairment after Alzheimer's disease. The VCI spectrum involves a decline in 
cognition attributable to vascular pathologies (e.g., large infarcts or 
hemorrhages, microinfarcts, microbleeds, lacunar infarcts, white matter 
hyperintensities, and perivascular space dilation). Pathophysiological 
mechanisms include direct tissue injury, small vessel disease, inflammaging 
(inflammation + aging), atrophy, and altered neurotransmission. VCI is diagnosed 
using distinct clinical and radiological criteria. It may lead to long-term 
disability and reduced quality of life. An essential factor for reducing 
cognitive impairment incidence is preventing stroke by managing traditional and 
non-traditional cerebrovascular risk factors. This article reviews the spectrum 
of VCI, epidemiology, risk factors, pathophysiology, diagnosis, available 
treatment, and preventive strategies.

Publisher: O comprometimento cognitivo vascular (CCV) é a segunda causa mais 
comum de comprometimento cognitivo depois da doença de Alzheimer. O espectro do 
CCV envolve um declínio na cognição atribuível a patologias vasculares (por 
exemplo, grandes infartos ou hemorragias, microinfartos, micro-hemorragias, 
infartos lacunares, hiperintensidades da substância branca e dilatação do espaço 
perivascular). Os mecanismos fisiopatológicos incluem lesão tecidual direta, 
doença de pequenos vasos, inflammaging (inflamação+envelhecimento), atrofia e 
neurotransmissão alterada. O CCV é diagnosticado usando critérios clínicos e 
radiológicos distintos. Pode levar à incapacidade a longo prazo e à redução da 
qualidade de vida. Um fator essencial para reduzir a incidência de 
comprometimento cognitivo é prevenir o acidente vascular cerebral através do 
manejo dos fatores de risco cerebrovasculares tradicionais e não tradicionais. 
Este artigo revisa o espectro do CCV, epidemiologia, fatores de risco, 
fisiopatologia, diagnóstico, tratamento disponível e estratégias preventivas.

DOI: 10.1590/1980-5764-DN-2023-0116
PMCID: PMC11421556
PMID: 39318380

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors report no conflicts of 
interest.


23. Zhen Ci Yan Jiu. 2024 Aug 25;49(8):858-866. doi:
10.13702/j.1000-0607.20230279.

Progress of researches on the mechanism of acupuncture treatment for Alzheimer's 
disease by modulating synaptic plasticity.

[Article in Chinese, English; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Ren DL(1), Wei YT(1), Su ML(1), Zhu TT(1), Yan XK(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Acupuncture and Massage, Gansu University of Chinese Medicine, 
Lanzhou 730000, China.
(2)School of Acupuncture and Massage, Gansu University of Chinese Medicine, 
Lanzhou 730000, China. yanxingke@126.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease with high incidence in 
the elderly population, and the synaptic changes in central neurons are the key 
pathological feature. The clinical effect of acupuncture and moxibustion in the 
treatment of AD is positive, and the research on the mechanism of acupuncture 
intervention of AD from the perspective of central synaptic plasticity 
regulation has been conducted uninterruptedly. In the present paper, we made a 
summation about the relevant experimental studies in recent years, and analyzed 
its mechanisms underlying improvement of AD by regulating synaptic plasticity 
from 1) repairing synaptic structure (synaptic contact area ［total number of 
synapses, synaptic surface density, synaptic number density］, postsynaptic dense 
zone thickness, synaptic gap width, and interface curvature), 2) improving 
synaptic transmission efficiency (regulating long-term potentiation and 
long-term depression), 3) promoting the expression of synapse related proteins 
(synaptophysin, postsynaptic density protein 95, growth associated protein 43), 
4) regulating the expression of neurotransmitters (acetylcholine, monoamines, 
amino acids, etc.) and receptors (α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, 
glutaminergic receptor, etc.), and 5) improving the level of neurotrophic 
factors (brain derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF) and 
BDNF/SYN/microtubule-associated protein 2 signaling, etc., hoping to provide a 
reference for future studies.

Publisher: 
阿尔茨海默病（AD）是老年人群高发的神经退行性疾病，中枢神经元突触改变是其关键病理特征。针灸治疗AD临床疗效确切，从中枢突触可塑性调节角度探讨针刺干预AD的机制研究不断深入。本文整理近年来相关实验研究，从修复突触结构、改善突触传递效能、促进突触相关蛋白表达、调控神经递质和受体表达、提高神经营养因子水平等多途径总结探讨针刺调节突触可塑性治疗AD的作用机制，从而为后期研究提供依据。.

DOI: 10.13702/j.1000-0607.20230279
PMID: 39318316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Hum Gene Ther. 2024 Nov;35(21-22):904-916. doi: 10.1089/hum.2024.112. Epub
2024  Oct 16.

Suppression of CNS APOE4 Expression by miRNAs Delivered by the S2 AAVrh.10 
Capsid-Modified AAV Vector.

Karan KR(1), Andrzejewski S(1), Stiles KM(1), Hackett NR(1), Crystal RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New 
York, USA.

The homozygous Apolipoprotein E (APOE4) genotype is the major risk factor for 
the development of early Alzheimer's disease. Genome engineering studies in 
mouse models of human APOE4-dependent pathology have established that reduction 
of APOE4 expression can rescue the phenotype. We hypothesized that APOE4 could 
be suppressed in the CNS of APOE4 homozygotes using adeno-associated virus (AAV) 
expression of microRNAs (miRNA) designed to hybridize to APOE mRNA. We screened 
nine different miRNAs targeting APOE following transfection in HEK293T and Huh7 
cells. Optimal APOE suppression was obtained with mir2A (targeting coding region 
nt330-351) and mirN4 (3' untranslated region nt1142-1162). miRNA expression 
cassettes were designed with two copies of each of these two miRNAs co-expressed 
with a mCherry transgene. To optimize delivery of these miRNAs, an engineered 
AAVrh.10 variant was identified from a screen of multiple peptide insertions 
into capsid loop IV and substitutions in loop VIII. This led to identifying the 
AAV.S2 capsid with enhanced transduction of both neurons and glia and enhanced 
distribution in the brain. The engineered capsid was used to deliver the APOE 
miRNA suppression cassette to the hippocampus of TRE4 mice (human APOE4 knock-in 
replacement of the murine apoE locus). Two weeks after intra-hippocampus 
administration, regional expression of miRNA at the injection site was 
quantified at the mRNA level relative to an endogenous reference. The AAV.S2 
capsid provided 2.31 ± 0.37-fold higher expression of miRNA over that provided 
by AAVrh.10 (p < 0.05). In the targeted region, a single intra-hippocampus 
AAV.S2 administration suppressed hippocampal APOE4 mRNA levels by 76.5 ± 3.9% 
compared with 41.3 ± 3.3% with the same cassette delivered by the wildtype 
AAVrh.10 capsid (p < 0.0001). We conclude that an expression cassette with two 
different miRNAs targeting APOE4 delivered by the AAV.S2 capsid will generate 
highly significant suppression of APOE4 in the CNS.

DOI: 10.1089/hum.2024.112
PMID: 39318239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Curr Pharm Des. 2025;31(6):443-460. doi:
10.2174/0113816128328722240828184410.

Nanoparticles in CNS Therapeutics: Pioneering Drug Delivery Advancements.

Nayak U(1), Halagali P(2), Panchal KN(2), Tippavajhala VK(2), Mudgal J(3), 
Radhakrishnan R(4)(5), Manikkath J(2).

Author information:
(1)Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Manipal Academy of Higher 
Education, Manipal 576104, Karnataka State, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal 576104, Karnataka State, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal 576104, Karnataka State, India.
(4)Department of Oral Pathology, Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal 
Academy of Higher Education, Manipal 576104, Karnataka State, India.
(5)Academic Unit of Oral and Maxillofacial Medicine and Pathology, School of 
Clinical Dentistry, University of Sheffield, Sheffield S102TA, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The incidence of Central Nervous System (CNS) disorders, including 
Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, stroke, and malignancies, has risen 
significantly in recent decades, contributing to millions of deaths annually. 
Efficacious treatment of these disorders requires medicines targeting the brain. 
The Blood-brain Barrier (BBB) poses a formidable challenge to effective drug 
delivery to the brain, hindering progress in CNS therapeutics. This review 
explores the latest developments in nanoparticulate carriers, highlighting their 
potential to overcome BBB limitations.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate and summarise the critical factors and 
pathways in the nanoparticle- based CNS targeted drug delivery.
METHODS: An extensive literature search was conducted, comprising the initial 
development of nanoparticle- based CNS-targeted drug delivery approaches to the 
latest advancements using various online search tools.
RESULTS: The properties of nanoparticles, such as type of nanoparticles, size, 
shape, surface charge, hydrophobicity, and surface functionalisation, along with 
properties of the BBB during normal and pathological conditions and their impact 
on the delivery of nanoparticles across the BBB, are identified and discussed 
here.
CONCLUSION: Important properties and pathways that determine the penetration of 
nanoparticles across the CNS are reviewed in this article, along with recent 
advances in the field.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113816128328722240828184410
PMID: 39318210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Curr Mol Med. 2025;25(2):146-166. doi: 10.2174/0115665240334785240913071442.

Stem Cells as a Novel Source for Regenerative Medicinal Applications in 
Alzheimer's Disease: An Update.

Pandey K(1), Srivastava P(1), Pandey SK(2), Johari S(1), Bhatnagar P(3), Sonane 
M(4), Mishra A(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biosciences, Institute of Management Studies Ghaziabad 9 
(University Courses Campus), NH09, Adhyatmik Nagar, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, 
201015, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Applied Sciences & Humanities, GLA 
University, Mathura, 281406, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Ansari 
Nagar, Delhi, 110029, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow, 
226025, India.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by loss of the neurons, excessive accumulation of misfolded Aβ and 
Tau proteins, and degeneration of neural synapses, primarily occurring in the 
neocortex and the hippocampus regions of the brain. AD Progression is marked by 
cognitive deterioration, memory decline, disorientation, and loss of 
problem-solving skills, as well as language. Due to limited comprehension of the 
factors contributing to AD and its severity due to neuronal loss, even today, 
the medications approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are not 
precisely efficient and curative. Stem cells possess great potential in aiding 
AD due to their self-renewal, proliferation, and differentiation properties. 
Stem cell therapy can aid by replacing the lost neurons, enhancing neurogenesis, 
and providing an enriched environment to the pre-existing neural cells. Stem 
cell therapy has provided us with promising results in regard to the animal AD 
models, and even pre-clinical studies have shown rather positive results. Cell 
replacement therapies are potential curative means to treat AD, and there are a 
number of undergoing human clinical trials to make Stem Cell therapy accessible 
for AD patients. In this review, we aim to discuss the AD pathophysiology and 
varied stem cell types and their application.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115665240334785240913071442
PMID: 39318206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2024;21(5):353-365. doi: 
10.2174/0115672050316936240905064215.

Post-Hoc Assessment of Cognitive Efficacy in Alzheimer's Disease Using a Latent 
Growth Mixture Model in AMBAR, a Phase 2B Randomized Controlled Trial.

Ayasse ND(1), Stewart WF(2), Lipton RB(3), Gomez-Ulloa D(4), Runken MC(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Patient-Centered Outcomes, Statistics and Psychometrics, OPEN 
Health, Parsippany, NH, USA (at the time of work being conducted).
(2)Medcurio Inc, Oakland, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY, 
USA.
(4)Department of Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Grifols, Sant Cugat Del 
Vallès, Spain.
(5)Department of Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Grifols, SSNA-Research 
Triangle Park, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Disease progression in Alzheimer's Dementia (AD) is typically 
characterized by accelerated cognitive and functional decline, where 
heterogeneous trajectories can impact the observed treatment response.
METHODS: We hypothesized that unobserved heterogeneity could obscure treatment 
benefits in AD. The effect of unobserved heterogeneity was empirically 
quantified within the Alzheimer's Management By Albumin Replacement (AMBAR) 
phase 2b trial data. The ADAS-Cog 12 cognition endpoint was reanalyzed in a 
2-class latent growth mixture model initially fit to the treatment arm. The 
model with the best fit was then applied across both treatment arms to a larger 
(n=1000) simulated dataset that was representative of AMBAR trial cognitive 
data.
RESULTS: Two classes of patients were observed: a stable cognitive trajectory 
class and a highly variable class. Removal of the latter (n=48, 22%) from the 
analysis and refitting efficacy models comparing the stable class to full 
placebo yielded significant treatment efficacy on cognition (p=0.007, Cohen's 
D=-0.4). Comparison of the stable class of each arm within the simulated dataset 
revealed a significant difference in treatment efficacy favoring the simulated 
stable treatment arm.
CONCLUSION: This post hoc exploratory analysis suggests that prespecified 
strategies for addressing unobserved heterogeneity may yield improved effect 
detection in AD trials. The generalizability of the analytic strategy is limited 
by latent stratification in only the treatment arm, a requirement given the 
small placebo arm in AMBAR. This limitation was partially addressed by the 
simulation modeling.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115672050316936240905064215
PMID: 39318022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Endocr Metab Immune Disord Drug Targets. 2024 Sep 23. doi: 
10.2174/0118715303312982240902102722. Online ahead of print.

Associative Learning in Subclinical Hypothyroidism at Different Ranges of 
Thyroid Stimulating Hormone: A Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated 
Battery (CANTAB) Study of Visual Paired Association Learning Task.

Kaur Jhandi S(1), Shenoy S(1), Singh A(2).

Author information:
(1)MYAS-GNDU Department of Sports Sciences and Medicine, Guru Nanak Dev 
University, Amritsar, 143005, Punjab, India.
(2)Outpatient Department and Emergency Branch, Apollo Hospital Amritsar, Punjab, 
143005, India.

BACKGROUND: Associative learning deficits are constantly found in subclinical 
hypothyroidism (SCH). Despite achieving normal thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) 
levels, a considerable number of patients undergoing levothyroxine (LT-4) 
treatment frequently complain about memory retrieval. The Paired Association 
Learning (PAL) task involves computerised testing on the CANTAB- Cambridge 
Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery, also considered a screening tool for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD).
PURPOSE: This study aimed to investigate the impact of different levels of TSH 
on visual associative learning in SCH and determine if these impairments were 
reversed with LT-4.
METHODS: A total of 134 participants were included in this cross-sectional 
study. Group 1: 35 healthy controls; patients with SCH (Group 2: 33 newly 
identified cases; Group 3: 32 patients on LT-4 with elevated TSH; Group 4: 34 
euthyroid but on LT-4). A thyroid profile and a neuropsychological clinical 
assessment were done. The visual PAL task was performed on CANTAB.
RESULTS: PAL was significantly impaired (p = <0.05) in all 3 patient groups as 
compared to Group 1. The PAL total errors (adjusted) scores were significantly 
higher in Groups 2 and 3, indicating that associative learning is definitely 
impaired in SCH, reaching levels previously seen in patients with AD.
CONCLUSION: Our findings encourage screening for visual associative learning or 
memory retrieval in patients with SCH. The study present has established a more 
reasonable threshold of TSH 2.5mIU/L to encourage examination of associative 
learning and the initiation of LT-4 in SCH. Poor PAL task performance in 
patients with SCH may have significant implications in clinical settings for 
suspecting AD.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715303312982240902102722
PMID: 39318015


29. Biogerontology. 2024 Nov;25(6):957-983. doi: 10.1007/s10522-024-10136-4. Epub
 2024 Sep 24.

Dysbiosis and fecal microbiota transplant: Contemplating progress in health, 
neurodegeneration and longevity.

Ahmadi S(1)(2), Hasani A(3)(4), Khabbaz A(5), Poortahmasbe V(1), Hosseini S(5), 
Yasdchi M(5), Mehdizadehfar E(5), Mousavi Z(6), Hasani R(7), Nabizadeh E(1), 
Nezhadi J(1).

Author information:
(1)Infectious and Tropical Diseases Research Center, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Students Research Committee, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Infectious and Tropical Diseases Research Center, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. dr.alkahasani@gmail.com.
(4)Clinical Research Development Unit, Sina Educational, Research and Treatment 
Center, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. dr.alkahasani@gmail.com.
(5)Neurosciences Research Center, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(6)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(7)School of Medicine, Istanbul Okan University, Tuzla, 34959, Istanbul, Turkey.

The gut-brain axis plays an important role in mental health. The intestinal 
epithelial surface is colonized by billions of commensal and transitory 
bacteria, known as the Gut Microbiota (GM). However, potential pathogens 
continuously stimulate intestinal immunity when they find the place. The last 
two decades have witnessed several studies revealing intestinal bacteria as a 
key factor in the health-disease balance of the gut, as well as disease-emergent 
in other parts of the body. Various neurological processes, such as cognition, 
learning, and memory, could be affected by dysbiosis in GM. Additionally, the 
aging process and longevity are related to systemic inflammation caused by 
dysbiosis. Commensal GM affects brain development, behavior, and healthy aging 
suggesting that building changes in GM might be a potential therapeutic method. 
The innovation in GM dysbiosis is intervention by Fecal Microbiota 
Transplantation (FMT), which has been confirmed as a therapy for recurrent 
Clostridium difficile infections and is promising for other clinical disorders, 
such as Parkinson's disease, Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer's disease, 
and depression. Additionally, FMT may be possible to promote healthy aging, and 
extend longevity. This review aims to connect dysbiosis, neurological disorders, 
and aging and the potential of FMT as a therapeutic strategy to treat these 
disorders, and to enhance the quality of life in the elderly.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-024-10136-4
PMID: 39317918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Mar;62(3):3730-3745. doi: 10.1007/s12035-024-04509-6.
Epub  2024 Sep 25.

A Screen of Plant-Based Natural Products Revealed That Quercetin Prevents 
Pyroglutamylated Amyloid-β (Aβ3(pE)-42) Uptake in Astrocytes As Well As 
Resulting Astrogliosis and Synaptic Dysfunction.

Arndt H(1), Bachurski M(1), Yuanxiang P(1), Franke K(2)(3)(4), Wessjohann 
LA(2)(4)(5), Kreutz MR(6)(7)(8)(9), Grochowska KM(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Research Group Neuroplasticity, Leibniz Institute for Neurobiology, 39118, 
Magdeburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Bioorganic Chemistry, Leibniz Institute of Plant Biochemistry, 
06108, Halle, Germany.
(3)Institute of Biology/Geobotany and Botanical Garden, Martin Luther University 
Halle-Wittenberg, 06108, Halle, Germany.
(4)German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) 
Halle-Jena-Leipzig, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.
(5)Institut Für Chemie, Chair of Natural Products Chemistry, 
Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, 06120, Halle (Saale), Germany.
(6)Research Group Neuroplasticity, Leibniz Institute for Neurobiology, 39118, 
Magdeburg, Germany. Michael.Kreutz@lin-magdeburg.de.
(7)Leibniz Group 'Dendritic Organelles and Synaptic Function', Center for 
Molecular Neurobiology, ZMNH, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
20251, Hamburg, Germany. Michael.Kreutz@lin-magdeburg.de.
(8)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), 39120, Magdeburg, 
Germany. Michael.Kreutz@lin-magdeburg.de.
(9)Center for Behavioral Brain Sciences, Otto Von Guericke University, 39120, 
Magdeburg, Germany. Michael.Kreutz@lin-magdeburg.de.
(10)Research Group Neuroplasticity, Leibniz Institute for Neurobiology, 39118, 
Magdeburg, Germany. Katarzyna.Grochowska@zmnh.uni-hamburg.de.
(11)Leibniz Group 'Dendritic Organelles and Synaptic Function', Center for 
Molecular Neurobiology, ZMNH, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
20251, Hamburg, Germany. Katarzyna.Grochowska@zmnh.uni-hamburg.de.

Two connected histopathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are 
chronic neuroinflammation and synaptic dysfunction. The accumulation of the most 
prevalent posttranslationally modified form of Aβ1-42, pyroglutamylated 
amyloid-β (Aβ3(pE)-42) in astrocytes is directly linked to glial activation and 
the release of proinflammatory cytokines that in turn contribute to early 
synaptic dysfunction in AD. At present, the mechanisms of Aβ3(pE)-42 uptake to 
astrocytes are unknown and pharmacological interventions that interfere with 
this process are not available. Here we developed a simple screening assay to 
identify substances from a plant extract library that prevent astroglial 
Aβ3(pE)-42 uptake. We first show that this approach yields valid and 
reproducible results. Second, we show endocytosis of Aβ3(pE)-42 oligomers by 
astrocytes and that quercetin, a plant flavonol, is effective to specifically 
block astrocytic buildup of oligomeric Aβ3(pE)-42. Importantly, quercetin does 
not induce a general impairment of endocytosis. However, it efficiently protects 
against early synaptic dysfunction following exogenous Aβ3(pE)-42 application.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-024-04509-6
PMCID: PMC11790700
PMID: 39317890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: All animal 
experiments were carried out in accordance with the European Communities Council 
Directive (2010/63/EU) and German Animal Welfare Act. Consent to Participate: 
Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable. Competing Interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests.


31. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Mar;62(3):3746-3763. doi: 10.1007/s12035-024-04513-w.
Epub  2024 Sep 25.

Gut Microbiota Mediates Neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's Disease: Unraveling Key 
Factors and Mechanistic Insights.

Junyi L(1), Yueyang W(1), Bin L(2), Xiaohong D(3), Wenhui C(1), Ning Z(1), Hong 
Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Heilongjiang University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Harbin, 150040, 
Heilongjiang Province, China.
(2)Heilongjiang University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Harbin, 150040, 
Heilongjiang Province, China. liubin169@163.com.
(3)Jiamusi College, Heilongjiang University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Jiamusi, Heilongjiang Province, China.
(4)Heilongjiang Jiamusi Central Hospital, Jiamusi, Heilongjiang Province, China.

The gut microbiota, the complex community of microorganisms that inhabit the 
gastrointestinal tract, has emerged as a key player in the pathogenesis of 
neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD is 
characterized by progressive cognitive decline and neuronal loss, associated 
with the accumulation of amyloid-β plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and 
neuroinflammation in the brain. Increasing evidence suggests that alterations in 
the composition and function of the gut microbiota, known as dysbiosis, may 
contribute to the development and progression of AD by modulating 
neuroinflammation, a chronic and maladaptive immune response in the central 
nervous system. This review aims to comprehensively analyze the current role of 
the gut microbiota in regulating neuroinflammation and glial cell function in 
AD. Its objective is to deepen our understanding of the pathogenesis of AD and 
to discuss the potential advantages and challenges of using gut microbiota 
modulation as a novel approach for the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of 
AD.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-024-04513-w
PMID: 39317889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: Not applicable. 
Consent to Participate: The authors confirm that the work described has not been 
previously published (except in abstract form or as part of a published lecture, 
review or paper) and agree to publish it in this journal. Consent for 
Publication: Not applicable. Competing Interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


32. Pediatr Res. 2025 Feb;97(3):1183-1192. doi: 10.1038/s41390-024-03587-5. Epub 
2024 Sep 24.

Neurofilament light chain associates with IVH and ROP in extremely preterm 
infants.

Sjöbom U(1)(2), Öhrfelt A(3), Pivodic A(4), Nilsson AK(4), Blennow 
K(3)(5)(6)(7), Zetterberg H(3)(5)(8)(9)(10)(11), Hellström W(12), Danielsson 
H(13)(14), Gränse L(15), Sävman K(12)(16), Wackernagel D(17)(18), Hansen-Pupp 
I(19), Ley D(19), Hellström A(4), Löfqvist C(20)(4).

Author information:
(1)Learning and Leadership for Health Care Professionals, Institute of Health 
and Care Science at Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden. ulrika.sjobom@gu.se.
(2)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden. 
ulrika.sjobom@gu.se.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(7)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, PR China.
(8)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, University College of London 
Institute of Neurology, London, UK.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College of London, London, UK.
(10)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(11)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(12)Department of Pediatrics, Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska 
Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(13)Centre for Translational Microbiome Research, Department of Microbiology, 
Tumor and Cell Biology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(14)Sach's Children's and Youth Hospital, Södersjukhuset, Stockholm, Sweden.
(15)Department of Clinical Sciences, Ophthalmology, Lund University, Skåne 
University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.
(16)Region Västra Götaland, Department of Neonatology, The Queen Silvia 
Children's Hospital, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(17)Department of Clinical Science, Intervention and Technology (CLINTEC), 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(18)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, University Medical Center 
of the Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(19)Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Pediatrics, Lund University, Skåne 
University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.
(20)Learning and Leadership for Health Care Professionals, Institute of Health 
and Care Science at Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Neurofilament light chain (NfL) is known for indicating adult brain 
injury, but the role of NfL in extremely preterm infants is less studied. This 
study examines the relationship between NfL and neurovascular morbidities in 
these infants.
METHODS: A secondary analysis of the Mega Donna Mega trial was conducted on 
preterm infants <28 weeks gestational age (GA). The study measured NfL levels 
and proteomic profiles related to the blood-brain barrier in serum from birth to 
term-equivalent age, investigating the association of NfL with GA, retinopathy 
of prematurity (ROP), intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), and blood-brain barrier 
proteins.
RESULTS: Higher NfL levels were seen in the first month in infants with severe 
IVH and for those born <25 weeks GA (independent of ROP or IVH). Additionally, 
infants born at 25-27 weeks GA with high NfL were at increased risk of 
developing severe ROP (independent of IVH). NfL was significantly associated 
with the proteins CDH5, ITGB1, and JAM-A during the first month.
CONCLUSION: NfL surges after birth in extremely preterm infants, particularly in 
those with severe IVH and ROP, and in the most immature infants regardless of 
IVH or ROP severity. These findings suggest NfL as a potential predictor of 
neonatal morbidities, warranting further validation studies.
IMPACT STATEMENT: This study shows that higher NfL levels are related to 
neurovascular morbidities in extremely preterm infants. The degree of immaturity 
seems important as infants born <25 weeks gestational age exhibited 
high postnatal serum NfL levels irrespective of neurovascular morbidities. Our 
findings suggest a potential link between NfL and neurovascular morbidities 
possibly affected by a more permeable blood-brain barrier.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41390-024-03587-5
PMCID: PMC12055587
PMID: 39317698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: K.B. has served as a 
consultant and at advisory boards for Acumen, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, 
Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche 
Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees 
for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational 
materials and participated in educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, 
Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this paper. H.Z. has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Alzecure, Biogen, and Roche, and is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). D.W. has held 
lectures and seminars for Baxter Inc. U.S., A.Ö., A.P., A.N., W.H., H.D., L.G., 
K.S., I.H.-P., D.L., A.H., and C.L. have no conflicts to declare. Consent 
statement: Written parental or legal guardian consent was obtained for the 
infants included.


33. Disabil Health J. 2025 Jan;18(1):101709. doi: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2024.101709.
Epub  2024 Sep 20.

Racial-ethnic differences in the associations between functional disabilities 
and subsequent depression among community-dwelling midlife and older adults in 
the US.

Das Gupta D(1), Kelekar U(2), Bhattacharyya KK(3), Turner SC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology and Health Science, Emma Eccles Jones College of 
Education and Human Services, Utah State University, 7000 Old Main Hill, Logan, 
UT, USA. Electronic address: debasree.dasgupta@usu.edu.
(2)College of Business, Innovation, Leadership and Technology, Center for 
Optimal Aging, Marymount University, 2807 North Glebe Road, Arlington, VA, 
22207, USA.
(3)Alzheimer's Disease and Dementia Research Center, Emma Eccles Jones College 
of Education and Human Services, Utah State University, 2800 Old Main Hill, 
Logan, UT, 84322, USA.
(4)Fors Marsh Group, 4250 Fairfax Dr., Suite 520, Arlington, VA, 22203, USA.

BACKGROUND: The intersection of race/ethnicity with disability is a critical 
dimension of mental health outcomes in later ages that remains 
under-investigated.
OBJECTIVE: We examined the role of race-ethnicity in moderating the associations 
between functional disabilities and subsequent depression among Americans 51 and 
older and stratified into the two age-groups of midlife (51-64) and older adults 
(≥65).
METHODS: Using a nationally representative sample of community-dwelling 
Americans (≥51; n = 7475) in the 2016-2018 Health and Retirement Study, we 
conducted bivariate and multivariable regression analyses. Racial-ethnic groups 
included non-Hispanic (NH) Black, Hispanic, and NH White and a binary (0/1) 
outcome defined subsequent depression in 2018. The total number of difficulties 
on the Nagi, Lawton, and Katz disability scales represented baseline (2016) 
functional disabilities with a secondary four-level (no/mild/severe with 
assistance/severe without assistance) disability indicator incorporated to 
examine the role of assistance with daily living.
RESULTS: Across age-groups, subsequent depression was significantly more 
prevalent among NH Whites with functional disabilities compared to counterparts 
reporting no disabilities. Compared to NH Black and Hispanic counterparts, 
midlife NH Whites were three times more likely to report subsequent depression 
with each unit increase in the functional disability score, after adjusting for 
covariates. However, we observed no such racial-ethnic differences among older 
adults. Among the 51+ severe with no assistance group, adjusted odds of 
subsequent depression among NH Whites was 2.5 times higher than minority 
counterparts.
CONCLUSION: Health programs and environmental adaptations supporting functional 
care needs in later ages could be beneficial for improving mental health of 
adults with disabilities.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2024.101709
PMID: 39317611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no funding or conflicts of interest information to disclose.


34. Behav Brain Res. 2025 Jan 5;476:115270. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2024.115270. Epub 
2024 Sep 22.

Novel insights into famotidine as a GSK-3β inhibitor: An explorative study in 
aluminium chloride-induced Alzheimer's disease rat model.

Sequeira RC(1), Godad A(2).

Author information:
(1)SVKM's Dr. Bhanuben Nanavati College of Pharmacy, Gate No.1, Mithibai College 
Campus, Vaikunthlal Mehta Rd, Vile Parle West, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400056, 
India.
(2)SVKM's Dr. Bhanuben Nanavati College of Pharmacy, Gate No.1, Mithibai College 
Campus, Vaikunthlal Mehta Rd, Vile Parle West, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400056, 
India; Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technology, Institute of 
Chemical Technology, Mumbai, India. Electronic address: angelgodad@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a chronic neurodegenerative disease, presents a 
substantial global health challenge. This study explored the potential 
therapeutic role of famotidine, a histamine (H2) receptor antagonist, as a 
glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β) inhibitor in the context of AD induced by 
aluminium chloride (AlCl3) in a rat model. The intricate relationship between 
GSK-3β dysregulation and AD pathogenesis, particularly in amyloid-β (Aβ) 
production, formed the basis for investigating famotidine's efficacy. Molecular 
modelling revealed famotidine's efficient binding to GSK-3β, suggesting 
inhibitory potential. In behavioural assessments, famotidine-treated groups 
exhibited dose-dependent improvements in Morris Water Maze, Novel Object 
Recognition, and Y-Maze tests, comparable to the standard Rivastigmine tartrate 
group. Biochemical analyses showed that famotidine inhibits 
acetylcholinesterase, decreases lipid peroxidation, increases antioxidant 
activity, and mitigates oxidative stress. Moreover, famotidine significantly 
lowered the levels of GSK-3β, IL-6, and Aβ(1-42). The neuroprotective effects of 
famotidine were further supported by histopathological analysis. This 
comprehensive investigation underscores famotidine's potential as a GSK-3β 
inhibitor, providing insights into its therapeutic impact on AD induced by 
AlCl3. The study offers a promising avenue for repurposing famotidine due to its 
established safety profile and widespread availability, highlighting its 
potential in addressing the formidable challenge of AD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2024.115270
PMID: 39317263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All authors 
does not have any conflict of interest.


35. Advancing Research on Chronic Conditions in Women.

National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine; Health and Medicine 
Division; Board on Population Health and Public Health Practice; Committee on a 
Framework for the Consideration of Chronic Debilitating Conditions in Women; 
Batulan Z, Bhimla A, Higginbotham EJ, editors.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2024 Sep 25.
The National Academies Collection: Reports funded by National Institutes of 
Health.

Women in the United States experience a higher prevalence of many chronic 
conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, depression, and osteoporosis, than 
men; they also experience female-specific conditions, such as endometriosis and 
pelvic floor disorders. A lack of research into both the biological and social 
factors that influence these conditions greatly hinders diagnosis, treatment, 
and prevention efforts, thus contributing to poorer health outcomes for women 
and substantial costs to individuals and for society. The National Institutes of 
Health’s Office of Research on Women’s Health asked the National Academies of 
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to convene an expert committee to identify 
gaps in the science on chronic conditions that are specific to or predominantly 
impact women, or affect women differently, and propose a research agenda. The 
committee’s report presents their conclusions and recommendations.

Copyright 2024 by the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.17226/27757
PMID: 39012968


36. PLoS Pathog. 2024 Sep 24;20(9):e1012470. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1012470. 
eCollection 2024 Sep.

Changes in cerebrospinal fluid proteins across the spectrum of untreated and 
treated chronic HIV-1 infection.

Hu Z(1), Cinque P(2)(3), Dravid A(4)(5)(6), Hagberg L(7)(8), Yilmaz A(7)(8), 
Zetterberg H(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14), Fuchs D(15), Gostner J(15), Blennow 
K(9)(10), Spudich SS(16), Kincer L(17)(18), Zhou S(17)(18), Joseph 
SB(17)(18)(19), Swanstrom R(18)(20)(21), Price RW(22), Gisslén M(7)(8)(23).

Author information:
(1)Bakar Computational Health Sciences Institute, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States of America.
(2)Unit of Neurovirology, San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, Italy.
(3)Unit of Infectious Diseases, San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, Italy.
(4)HIV Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Poona Hospital and Research Centre, 
Pune, India.
(5)Noble Hospital and Research Centre, Pune, India.
(6)Ruby Hall Clinic, Pune, India.
(7)Department of Infectious Diseases, Institute of Biomedicine, Sahlgrenska 
Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(8)Region Västra Götaland, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Department of 
Infectious Diseases, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(9)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Department of Psychiatry and 
Neurochemistry, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(10)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(11)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
United Kingdom.
(12)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, United Kingdom.
(13)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(14)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, United States of America.
(15)Institute of Medical Biological Chemistry, Innsbruck Medical University, 
Innsbruck, Austria.
(16)Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, United States of America.
(17)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America.
(18)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina, United States of America.
(19)UNC HIV Cure Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, United States of America.
(20)UNC Center for AIDS Research, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, 
North Carolina, United States of America.
(21)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America.
(22)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, United States of America.
(23)Public Health Agency of Sweden, Solna, Sweden.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 May 05:2024.05.03.592451. doi: 10.1101/2024.05.03.592451.

Using the Olink Explore 1536 platform, we measured 1,463 unique proteins in 303 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimens from four clinical centers contributed by 
uninfected controls and 12 groups of people living with HIV-1 infection 
representing the spectrum of progressive untreated and treated chronic 
infection. We present three initial analyses of these measurements: an overview 
of the CSF protein features of the sample; correlations of the CSF proteins with 
CSF HIV-1 RNA and neurofilament light chain protein (NfL) concentrations; and 
comparison of CSF proteins in HIV-associated dementia (HAD) and neurosymptomatic 
CSF escape (NSE). These reveal a complex but coherent picture of CSF protein 
changes with highest concentrations of many proteins during CNS injury in the 
HAD and NSE groups and variable protein changes across the course of systemic 
HIV-1 progression that included two common patterns, designated as lymphoid and 
myeloid patterns, related to principal involvement of their underlying 
inflammatory cell lineages. Antiretroviral therapy reduced CSF protein 
perturbations, though not always to control levels. The dataset of these CSF 
protein measurements, along with background clinical information, is posted 
online. Extended studies of this unique dataset will supplement this report to 
provide more detailed characterization of the dynamic impact of HIV-1 infection 
on the CSF proteome across the spectrum of HIV-1 infection, advancing the 
mechanistic understanding of HIV-1-related CNS pathobiology.

Copyright: © 2024 Hu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the 
terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted 
use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author 
and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1012470
PMCID: PMC11469498
PMID: 39316609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: HZ has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, 
Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
These organizations and companies had no role in the study design, data 
collection, decision to publish, or publication of the manuscript. MG has 
received research grants from Gilead Sciences and honoraria as speaker, DSMB 
committee member and/or scientific advisor from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Biogen, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Gilead Sciences, GlaxoSmithKline/ViiV, Janssen-Cilag, MSD, 
Novocure, Novo Nordic, Pfizer and Sanofi. These organizations and companies had 
no role in the study design, data collection, decision to publish, or 
publication of the manuscript.


37. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Nov;20(11):8129-8152. doi: 10.1002/alz.14250. Epub
2024  Sep 24.

A framework for translating tauopathy therapeutics: Drug discovery to clinical 
trials.

Feldman HH(1), Cummings JL(2), Boxer AL(3), Staffaroni AM(3), Knopman DS(4), 
Sukoff Rizzo SJ(5), Territo PR(6), Arnold SE(7), Ballard C(8), Beher D(9), Boeve 
BF(4), Dacks PA(10), Diaz K(11), Ewen C(12), Fiske B(13), Gonzalez MI(14), 
Harris GA(15), Hoffman BJ(16), Martinez TN(17), McDade E(18), Nisenbaum LK(19), 
Palma JA(20)(21), Quintana M(22), Rabinovici GD(3), Rohrer JD(23), Rosen HJ(3), 
Troyer MD(24), Kim DY(25), Tanzi RE(25), Zetterberg H(26), Ziogas NK(27), May 
PC(28), Rommel A(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, 
California, USA.
(2)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, School of Integrated Health Sciences, University of Nevada at Las Vegas, 
Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Memory and Aging Center, University of California 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(5)Aging Institute, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Charlestown, Massachusetts, USA.
(8)College of Medicine and Health, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(9)Asceneuron, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(10)The Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration, King of Prussia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(11)CurePSP, New York, New York, USA.
(12)UCB Pharma, Slough, UK.
(13)The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, New York, New York, 
USA.
(14)Drug Discovery and Development Consultants, Cambridge, UK.
(15)Rainwater Charitable Foundation, Fort Worth, Texas, USA.
(16)Origami Therapeutics, San Diego, California, USA.
(17)Critical Path Institute, Tucson, Arizona, USA.
(18)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri, USA.
(19)Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation, New York, New York, USA.
(20)Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(21)Department of Neurology, New York University Grossman School of Medicine, 
New York, New York, USA.
(22)Berry Consultants, Austin, Texas, USA.
(23)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Dementia Research Centre, Queen 
Square Institute of Neurology, University College of London, London, UK.
(24)Denali Therapeutics, South San Francisco, California, USA.
(25)Department of Neurology, Genetics and Aging Research Unit, McCance Center 
for Brain Health, Mass General Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown, Massachusetts, USA.
(26)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Sahlgrenska Academy at the 
University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden.
(27)Biogen, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(28)ADvantage Neuroscience Consulting LLC, Fort Wayne, Indiana, USA.

The tauopathies are defined by pathological tau protein aggregates within a 
spectrum of clinically heterogeneous neurodegenerative diseases. The primary 
tauopathies meet the definition of rare diseases in the United States. There is 
no approved treatment for primary tauopathies. In this context, designing the 
most efficient development programs to translate promising targets and 
treatments from preclinical studies to early-phase clinical trials is vital. In 
September 2022, the Rainwater Charitable Foundation convened an international 
expert workshop focused on the translation of tauopathy therapeutics through 
early-phase trials. Our report on the workshop recommends a framework for 
principled drug development and a companion lexicon to facilitate communication 
focusing on reproducibility and achieving common elements. Topics include the 
selection of targets, drugs, biomarkers, participants, and study designs. The 
maturation of pharmacodynamic biomarkers to demonstrate target engagement and 
surrogate disease biomarkers is a crucial unmet need. HIGHLIGHTS: Experts 
provided a framework to translate therapeutics (discovery to clinical trials). 
Experts focused on the "5 Rights" (target, drug, biomarker, participants, 
trial). Current research on frontotemporal degeneration, progressive 
supranuclear palsy, and corticobasal syndrome therapeutics includes 32 trials 
(37% on biologics) Tau therapeutics are being tested in Alzheimer's disease; 
primary tauopathies have a large unmet need.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14250
PMCID: PMC11567863
PMID: 39316411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Steven E. Arnold declares lecture honoraria 
from: Abbvie, Biogen, and Eisai; serving on advisory boards for: Allyx 
Therapeutics, Bob's Last Marathon, Cassava, Cortexyme, Sage Therapeutics, and 
vTv Therapeutics; consulting for: Athira, Boyle‐Shaugnessy Law, Cognito 
Therapeutics, M3 Biotech, Orthogonal Neuroscience, and Risen Pharmaceutical 
Technology; and institutional research grant support from: Abbvie, Alzheimer's 
Association, Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation, Amylyx, Athira, Chromadex, 
Cyclerion Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Janssen/Johnson & Johnson, NIH, Novartis, 
Seer Biosciences, and vTv Therapeutics. Clive Ballard declares grants from 
Synexus, reMYND, and Novo Nordisk; consultancy fees from Tau Therapeutics, 
Acadia Pharmaceuticals, Johnson & Johnson, Suven Life Sciences, Sunovion, 
Exciva, Roche, AbbVie, Orion Pharma, BioExcel, AARP, and Lilly; and honoraria 
from Bristol Myers Squibb, Axome Therapeutics, Tau Therapeutics, and Biogen. 
Dirk Beher is a co‐founder, employee, and shareholder of Asceneuron SA. Bradley 
F. Boeve received honorarium for SAB activities for the Tau Consortium; 
institutional research grant support from: Alector, Biogen, Transposon, 
Cognition Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, GE Healthcare; institutional NIH grant 
support from: P30 AG062677, U19 AG063911, R01 AG038791, U01 NS100620, U19 
AG071754, U24 AG056270; institutional foundation support from: Lewy Body 
Dementia Association, American Brain Foundation; and institutional philanthropic 
support from: Mayo Clinic Dorothy and Harry T. Mangurian Jr. Lewy Body Dementia 
Program, the Little Family Foundation, Ted Turner Family Foundation. Adam L. 
Boxer received grant support from NIH U19AG063911, R01AG073482, R56AG075744, 
R01AG038791, RF1AG077557, R01AG071756, U01AG045390, Rainwater Charitable 
Foundation, Bluefield Project to Cure FTD, GHR Foundation, Alzheimer's 
Association, Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration, Alzheimer's Drug 
Discovery Foundation, UCSF Parkinson's Spectrum Disorders Center, University of 
California Cures AD Program; industry research support from: Biogen, Eisai, 
Regeneron; and did industry consulting for: AGTC, Alchemab, Alector, Amylyx, 
Arkuda, Arvinas, Arrowhead, Eli Lilly, Merck, Muna, Oscotec, Roche, Switch, 
Transposon, Wave. Jeffrey L. Cummings reports consulting for: Acadia, Alkahest, 
AlphaCognition, AriBio, Biogen, Cassava, Cerecin, Cortexyme, Diadem, EIP Pharma, 
Eisai, GemVax, Genentech, Green Valley, GAP Innovations, Grifols, Janssen, 
Karuna, Lilly, Lundbeck, LSP, Merck, NervGen, Novo Nordisk, Oligomerix, Ono, 
Otsuka, PRODEO, Prothena, ReMYND, Resverlogix, Roche, Sage Therapeutics, 
SignantHealth, Suven, TrueBinding, and Vaxxinity pharmaceutical, assessment, and 
investment companies; and grant funding from: NIGMS grant P20GM109025, NINDS 
grant U01NS093334, NIA grant R01AG053798, NIA grant P20AG068053, NIA grant 
P30AG072959, NIA grant R35AG71476, Alzheimer's Disease Drug Discovery Foundation 
(ADDF), Ted and Maria Quirk Endowment, and the Joy Chambers‐Grundy Endowment. 
Penny A. Dacks is an employee of AFTD. Kristophe Diaz is an employee of CurePSP. 
Colin Ewen is an employee of UCB Pharma. Howard H. Feldman reports UCSD service 
agreements for consulting from: Axon Neuroscience, Samus Therapeutics, SAB of 
the Tau Consortium (a program of the Rainwater Charitable Foundation), Novo 
Nordisk, Genentech (DSMB), Roche/Banner Institute (DMC), and Janssen LLC (DSMB); 
ADCS clinical trials grant funding from: Annovis (Posiphen), Biohaven 
(Troriluzole), Vivoryon (Varoglutamstat), AC Immune (ACI‐24‐1301), LuMind 
(LIFE‐DSR); research funding from: NIA/NIH (U19 AG010483, P30 AG062429, R01 
AG061146‐01, 1R56 AG069130‐01, R01 AG051618, 1R01AG070353‐01), CIHR 
(CAN‐163902), Alzheimer's Association (SG‐20‐690388‐PEACE AD), UC Cures 
(BRD‐16‐501530), Brain Canada (4469); patent royalties from: Detecting and 
Treating Dementia (PGRN) Serial Number 12/3‐2691 U.S. Patent No. 
PCT/US2007/07008. Washington, DC: U.S. Patent and Trademark Office; and funding 
support from: The USC UCSD Epstein Family Alzheimer Research Collaboration. 
Brian Fiske works for The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research and 
has no conflicts of interest to disclose. M. Isabel Gonzalez has no conflicts of 
interest to disclose. Glenn A. Harris works for the Rainwater Charitable 
Foundation, a sponsor of the workshop. Beth J. Hoffman is a full‐time employee 
of Origami Therapeutics, Inc.; receives grant support from: SBIR Phase I Award 
No. NINDS R43NS127716; is affiliated with: Huntington's Disease Society of 
America Board of Trustees; and receives honoraria from: Rainwater Charitable 
Foundation Tau Consortium, Biofrontera (NASDAQ: BFRI) Board of Directors. Doo 
Yeon Kim receives grant support from: NIH 1R01AG071496‐01, R01AG062547‐01, 
1R01AG057635‐01A1, 1R01AG061891‐01A1, 1R01AG062547‐01, Cure Alzheimer's Fund, 
Coins for Alzheimer's Research Trust; is a co‐inventor of 3D Alzheimer's 
in‐a‐dish model; the technology and cell lines are licensed by Millipore/Sigma; 
and received patent loyalty from Acta Pharmaceutical for the drug candidates 
detected in cellular model screening. David S. Knopman serves on a data safety 
monitoring board for the Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network Treatment Unit 
study; was an investigator in Alzheimer's disease clinical trials sponsored by 
Biogen, Lilly Pharmaceuticals, and the University of Southern California, both 
of which have ended, and is currently an investigator in a trial in 
frontotemporal degeneration with Alector; has served as a consultant for Roche, 
AriBio, Linus Health, Biovie, and Alzeca Biosciences but receives no personal 
compensation; and receives funding from the NIH. Terina N. Martinez is an 
employee of the Critical Path Institute and has no conflicts of interest to 
disclose. Patrick C. May received honoraria for SAB activities for the Tau 
Consortium (a program of the Rainwater Charitable Foundation) and Cure 
Alzheimer's Fund. Eric McDade received research funding from: NIA (K23AG046363; 
U01AG059798), Anonymous Foundation, and GHR; institutional support from: DIAN‐TU 
Pharma Consortium, Eli Lilly, and Hoffmann La‐Roche; did speaker engagements 
for: Eli Lilly and Esai; served on an advisory board and DSMB for: Alector, 
Alzamend, Hoffmann La‐Roche, Merck, and Eli Lilly and is a co‐inventor of the 
“Methods of diagnosing AD with phosphorylation changes” technology licensed by 
Washington University to C2N Diagnostics (Washington University holds 5% equity 
in C2N; Through these relationships, Washington University and Dr. McDade are 
entitled to receive royalties from the license agreement with C2N). Laura K. 
Nisenbaum is an employee of the Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation. 
Jose‐Alberto Palma is an employee of Novartis. Melanie Quintana is an employee 
of Berry Consultants. Gil D. Rabinovici received grant support from: NIH/NIA P30 
AG062422, R35 AG072362, U01 AG057195, R56‐AG075744, U01‐AG082350, Alzheimer's 
Association, American College of Radiology (contributions from Eli Lilly, GE 
Healthcare, Life Molecular Imaging), Rainwater Charitable Foundation, Genentech; 
is a paid consultant for Alector, Eli Lilly, Merck; served on a DSMB for Johnson 
& Johnson; and is an associate editor for JAMA Neurology. Jonathan D. Rohrer has 
provided consultancy or been on an advisory board for Novartis, Wave Life 
Sciences, Prevail, Alector, Aviado Bio, Takeda, Arkuda Therapeutics, and Denali 
Therapeutics. Amy Rommel works for the Rainwater Charitable Foundation, a 
sponsor of the workshop. Howard J. Rosen is a consultant for Alchemab, Prevail, 
Genentech, Eisai; received grant support from: NIH U19 AG063911, P30 AG062422, 
P01 AG019724, R01 AG056749, CA Department of Public Health 18‐10612, 09‐11410. 
Adam M. Staffaroni reports consulting for Alector, Passage Bio, Prevail 
Therapeutics/Lilly, and Takeda; recent/current funding from: Association for 
Frontotemporal Dementia, ALS Association, Bluefield Project to Cure FTD, Larry 
L. Hillblom Foundation, and NIH‐NIA (K23 AG061253; RF1AG077557); and serves on 
ADDF Scientific Review Board. Stacey J. Sukoff Rizzo reports research funding 
from: NIA/NIH R01AG067289, U54AG054345, U19AG074866, P30AG024827, R24AG073190, 
U54AG065181, U54AG065187, R13 AG060708, RF1NS117486, U01AG079828, WoodNext 
Foundation, Hevolution; consulting for: Hager Biosciences, GenPrex Inc., Sage 
Therapeutics, Momentum Biosciences (shareholder); and travel/conference support 
from: Rainwater Charitable Foundation, Alzheimer's Association. Rudolph E. Tanzi 
has no conflicts of interest to disclose. Paul R. Territo reports research 
funding from: NIA/NIH U54AG054345, R01AG067289, R21AG078575, R21AG083791, 
R21AG083891, R13AG060708, Alzheimer's Association ALZDISCOVERY‐1051148. Matthew 
D. Troyer is an employee of Denali Therapeutics. Henrik Zetterberg serves on 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche; and is a co‐founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside submitted work). Nick K. Ziogas is a prior employee 
and owned stock at Biogen and is a current employee and owns stock at Bristol 
Myers Squibb. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


38. Mol Diagn Ther. 2025 Jan;29(1):9-24. doi: 10.1007/s40291-024-00738-6. Epub
2024  Sep 24.

Molecular Therapeutics in Development to Treat Alzheimer's Disease.

Tartaglia MC(1)(2)(3), Ingelsson M(4)(5)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Krembil Brain Institute, University Health Network, 6th Floor, 60 Leonard 
Ave, Toronto, ON, M5T 0S8, Canada.
(2)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Krembil Brain Institute, University Health Network, 6th Floor, 60 Leonard 
Ave, Toronto, ON, M5T 0S8, Canada. martin.ingelsson@uhn.ca.
(5)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. martin.ingelsson@uhn.ca.
(6)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
martin.ingelsson@uhn.ca.
(7)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada. martin.ingelsson@uhn.ca.
(8)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Geriatrics, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, Sweden. martin.ingelsson@uhn.ca.

Erratum in
    Mol Diagn Ther. 2025 Jan;29(1):143. doi: 10.1007/s40291-024-00752-8.

Until recently, only symptomatic therapies, in the form of acetylcholine 
esterase inhibitors and NMDA-receptor antagonists, have been available for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease. However, advancements in our understanding of 
the amyloid cascade hypothesis have led to a development of disease-modifying 
therapeutic strategies. These include immunotherapies based on an infusion of 
monoclonal antibodies against amyloid-β, three of which have been approved for 
the treatment of Alzheimer's disease in the USA (one of them, lecanemab, has 
also been approved in several other countries). They all lead to a dramatic 
reduction of amyloid plaques in the brain, whereas their clinical effects have 
been more limited. Moreover, they can all lead to side effects in the form of 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities. Ongoing developments aim at facilitating 
their administration, further improving their effects and reducing the risk for 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities. Moreover, a number of anti-tau 
immunotherapies are in clinical trials, but none has so far shown any robust 
effects on symptoms or pathology. Another line of development is represented by 
gene therapy. To date, only antisense oligonucleotides against amyloid precursor 
protein/amyloid-β and tau have reached the clinical trial stage but a variety of 
gene editing strategies, such as clustered regularly interspaced short 
palindromic repeats/Cas9-mediated non-homologous end joining, base editing, and 
prime editing, have all shown promise on preclinical disease models. In 
addition, a number of other pharmacological compounds targeting a multitude of 
biochemical processes, believed to be centrally involved in Alzheimer's disease, 
are currently being evaluated in clinical trials. This article delves into 
current and future perspectives on the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, with an 
emphasis on immunotherapeutic and gene therapeutic strategies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40291-024-00738-6
PMCID: PMC11748464
PMID: 39316339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Funding: Open access funding 
provided by Uppsala University. Conflicts of Interest/Competing Interests: 
Martin Ingelsson is a paid consultant to BioArctic AB. Maria Carmela Tartaglia 
has provided consultancy to EISAI, Lilly and Roche. Ethics Approval: Not 
applicable. Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent for Publication: Not 
applicable. Availability of Data and Material: Not applicable. Code 
Availability: Not applicable. Authors’ Contributions: MCT and MI drafted and 
finalized the manuscript together.


39. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Nov;20(11):7556-7566. doi: 10.1002/alz.14247. Epub
2024  Sep 24.

Ethnic differences in the prevalence of amyloid positivity and cognitive 
trajectories.

Jang H(1)(2), Chun MY(1)(3)(4), Yun J(1)(5), Kim JP(1)(6), Kang SH(7), Weiner 
M(8), Kim HJ(1)(6)(9)(10), Na DL(1)(6), Hong CH(11), Son SJ(11), Roh HW(11), Lee 
TK(5), Lee ES(5), Lee EH(1), Shin D(1), Ham H(1)(6), Gu Y(1)(9), Kim Y(12), Kim 
CH(13), Woo SY(14), Seo SW(1)(6)(9)(10); ADNI, A4 study, and K‐ROAD study 
groups.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Jongno-gu, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seodaemun-gu, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, Yongin Severance Hospital, Yonsei University Health 
System, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Soonchunhyang University Bucheon Hospital, 
Bucheon-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.
(6)Alzheimer's Disease Convergence Research Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Gangnam-gu, Seoul, South Korea.
(7)Department of Neurology, Korea University Guro Hospital, Korea University 
College of Medicine, Guro-gu, Seoul, South Korea.
(8)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(9)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Seoul, South Korea.
(10)Department of Digital Health, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan University, Gangnam-gu, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, Ajou University School of Medicine, Ajou 
University Hospital, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.
(12)Department of Neurology, Kangwon National University School of Medicine, 
Gangwon-do, South Korea.
(13)Department of Neurology, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, Anyang-si, 
Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.
(14)Biomedical Statistics Center, Data Science Research Institute, Samsung 
Medical Center, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, South Korea.

INTRODUCTION: We investigated the prevalence of amyloid beta (Aβ) positivity (+) 
and cognitive trajectories in Koreans and non-Hispanic Whites (NHWs).
METHODS: We included 5121 Koreans from multiple centers across South Korea and 
929 NHWs from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). 
Participants underwent Aβ positron emission tomography and were categorized into 
cognitively unimpaired (CU), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and dementia 
stages. Age, sex, education, and apolipoprotein E. genotype were adjusted using 
multivariable logistic regression and stabilized inverse probability of 
treatment weights based on the propensity scores to mitigate imbalances in these 
variables.
RESULTS: The prevalence of Aβ+ was lower in CU Koreans than in CU NHWs (adjusted 
odds ratio 0.60). Aβ+ Koreans showed a faster cognitive decline than Aβ+ NHWs in 
the CU (B = -0.314, p = .004) and MCI stages (B = -0.385, p < .001).
DISCUSSION: Ethnic characteristics of Aβ biomarkers should be considered in 
research and clinical application of Aβ-targeted therapies in diverse 
populations.
HIGHLIGHTS: Koreans have a lower prevalence of Aβ positivity compared to NHWs in 
the CU stage. The effects of Alzheimer's risk factors on Aβ positivity differ 
between Koreans and NHWs. Aβ-positive (Aβ+) Koreans show faster cognitive 
decline than Aβ+ NHWs in the CU and MCI stages.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14247
PMCID: PMC11567875
PMID: 39315862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No authors have conflicts of interest to 
disclose. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


40. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Sep 10:2024.02.14.24302818. doi: 
10.1101/2024.02.14.24302818.

Neuronal alpha-Synuclein Disease Integrated Staging System performance in PPMI, 
PASADENA, and SPARK baseline cohorts.

Dam T(1), Pagano G(2), Brumm MC(3), Gochanour C(3), Poston KL(4), Weintraub 
D(5), Chahine LM(6), Coffey C(3), Tanner CM(7), Kopil CM(8), Xiao Y(8), 
Chowdhury S(8), Concha-Marambio L(9), DiBiaso P(10)(11), Foroud T(12), Frasier 
M(8), Jennings D(13), Kieburtz K(14), Merchant K(15), Mollenhauer B(16), Montine 
TJ(17), Nudelman K(12), Seibyl J(18), Sherer T(8), Singleton A(19), Stephenson 
D(20), Stern M(21), Soto C(9)(22), Tolosa E(23), Siderowf A(21), Dunn B(24), 
Simuni T(15), Marek K(18); Parkinson’s Progression Markers Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Biogen, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, College of Public Health, University of Iowa, 
Iowa City, IA, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, 
CA, USA.
(5)University of Pennsylvania and the Parkinson's Disease and Mental Illness 
Research, Education and Clinical Centers (PADRECC and MIRECC), Philadelphia 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(7)Movement Disorders and Neuromodulation Center, Department of Neurology, Weill 
Institute for Neuroscience, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(8)The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, New York, NY, USA.
(9)Amprion Inc., San Diego, CA, USA.
(10)Patient Council, The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, New 
York, NY, USA.
(11)Clinical Solutions and Strategic Partnerships, WCG Clinical, Princeton, NJ, 
USA.
(12)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(13)Denali Therapeutics Inc., South San Francisco, CA, USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, 
NY, USA.
(15)Department of Neurology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(16)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center Göttingen and 
Paracelsus-Elena-Klinik, Kassel, Germany.
(17)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(18)Institute for Neurodegenerative Disorders, New Haven, CT, USA.
(19)National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.
(20)Critical Path for Parkinson's, Critical Path Institute, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(21)Department of Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(22)Mitchell Center for Alzheimer's Disease and Related Brain Disorders, 
Department of Neurology, University of Texas McGovern Medical School at Houston, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(23)Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Unit, Neurology Service, Hospital 
Clínic de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red 
Sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Hospital Clínic, IDIBAPS, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(24)Senior Advisor, The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, New 
York, NY, USA.

Update in
    NPJ Parkinsons Dis. 2024 Sep 27;10(1):178. doi: 10.1038/s41531-024-00789-w.

The Neuronal alpha-Synuclein Disease (NSD) biological definition and Integrated 
Staging System (NSD-ISS) provide a research framework to identify individuals 
with Lewy body pathology and stage them based on underlying biology and 
increasing degree of functional impairment. Utilizing data from the PPMI, 
PASADENA and SPARK studies, we developed and applied biologic and clinical 
data-informed definitions for the NSD-ISS across the disease continuum. 
Individuals enrolled as Parkinson's disease, Prodromal, or Healthy Controls were 
defined and staged based on biological, clinical, and functional anchors at 
baseline. Across the three studies 1,741 participants had SAA data and of these 
1,030 (59%) were S+ consistent with NSD. Among sporadic PD, 683/736 (93%) were 
NSD, and the distribution for Stages 2B, 3, and 4 was 25%, 63%, and 9%, 
respectively. Median (95% CI) time to developing a clinically meaningful outcome 
was 8.3 (6.2, 10.1), 5.9 (4.1, 6.0), and 2.4 (1.0, 4.0) years for baseline stage 
2B, 3, and 4, respectively. We propose pilot biologic and clinical anchors for 
NSD-ISS. Our results highlight the baseline heterogeneity of individuals 
currently defined as early PD. Baseline stage predicts time to progression to 
clinically meaningful milestones. Further research on validation of the anchors 
in longitudinal cohorts is necessary.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.02.14.24302818
PMCID: PMC11419206
PMID: 39314957

Conflict of interest statement: COMPETING INTERESTS TD declares former 
employment for and employee stock options in Biogen. GP declares employment for 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. and stock ownership for F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., 
Atea, Novartis and Eli Lilly. MB declares travel grants from The Michael J. Fox 
Foundation. CG declares employment for The Michael J. Fox Foundation. KP 
declares consultancies for Curasen; was on a scientific advisory board for 
Curasen and Amprion; honoraria from invited scientific presentations to 
universities and professional societies not exceeding $5000 per year from 
California Congress of Clinical Neurology, California Neurological Society, and 
Johns Hopkins University; and patents or patent applications numbers 17/314,979 
and 63/377,293. KP also declares grants to her institution (Stanford University 
School of Medicine) from NIH/NINDS NS115114, NS062684, NS075097, NIH/NIA U19 
AG065156, P30 AG066515, The Michael J. Fox Foundation, Lewy Body Dementia 
Association, Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation, Sue Berghoff LBD Research 
Fellowship and the Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience. DW declares salary 
support from The Michael J. Fox Foundation for serving on an Executive Steering 
Committee for the PPMI and consultancies for Roche Pharma. DW declares 
membership on the npj Parkinson’s Disease Editorial Board. LC declares grants to 
her institution from Biogen (clinical trial funding), MJFF, UPMC Competitive 
Medical Research Fund, National Institutes of Health, and University of 
Pittsburgh; grant and travel support from MJFF; royalties from Wolters Kluwel 
(for authorship); and in-kind donation by Advanced Brain Monitoring of equipment 
for research study to her institution. CC declares grants from The Michael J. 
Fox Foundation and NIH/NINDS. CT declares consultancies for CNS Ratings, 
Australian Parkinson’s Mission, Biogen, Evidera, Cadent (data safety monitoring 
board), Adamas (steering committee), Biogen (via the Parkinson Study Group 
steering committee), Kyowa Kirin (advisory board), Lundbeck (advisory board), 
Jazz/Cavion (steering committee), Acorda (advisory board), Bial (DMC) and 
Genentech. CT also declares grant support to her institution from The Michael J. 
Fox Foundation, National Institute of Health, Gateway LLC, Department of 
Defense, Roche Genentech, Biogen, Parkinson Foundation and Marcus Program in 
Precision Medicine. CT declares membership on the npj Parkinson’s Disease 
Editorial Board. CK declares employment for The Michael J. Fox Foundation. YX 
declares employment for and travel grants from The Michael J. Fox Foundation. SC 
declares employment for and travel grants from The Michael J. Fox Foundation. 
LC-M declares employment for and employee stock options in Amprion, grants 16712 
and 21233 from The Michael J. Fox Foundation to his institution; grant 
U44NS111672 from NIH to his institution; and patents or patent application 
numbers US 20210277076A1, US 20210311077A1, US 20190353669A1 and US 
20210223268A1. PD has no declarations. TF declares travel grants and grant 
payments to her institution (Indiana University) from The Michael J. Fox 
Foundation. MF declares employment for The Michael J. Fox Foundation and an 
unpaid advisory role at Vaxxinity. DJ declares employment for and employee stock 
options from Denali Therapeutics. KK declares support to his institution 
(University of Rochester Medical Center) from The Michael J. Fox Foundation. KMe 
declares consultancies for The Michael J. Fox Foundation, AcuRx, Caraway, 
Cerebral Therapeutics, NRG Therapeutics (scientific advisory board), Nitrase 
Therapeutics (scientific advisory board), Nurabio, Retromer Therapeutics 
(director on the board, part-time chief scientific officer), Schrodinger, 
Sinopia Biosciences (scientific advisory board), and Vanqua Biosciences 
(scientific advisory board); stock ownership for Cognition Therapeutics, Eli 
Lilly (retiree stock holder), Envisagenics, Nitrase Therapeutics, Sinopia 
Biosciences and Retromer Therapeutics; honoraria for the University of Utah; 
patents or patent applications for Retromer Therapeutics (planned patent); 
research grant from The Michael J. Fox Foundation and travel grants from the 
University of Utah. BM declares consultancies from Roche and Biogen; grants from 
The Michael J. Fox Foundation, ASAP and DFG; honoraria for Abbvie and Bial; 
leadership role for The Michael J. Fox Foundation and travel grants for Abbvie. 
TM declares support to his institution (Stanford University School of Medicine) 
from The Michael J. Fox Foundation. KN declares grant to her institution from 
The Michael J. Fox Foundation. JS declares consultancies from Invicro, Biogen, 
and Abbvie; and stock ownership from RealmIDX, MNI Holdings, and LikeMinds as 
well as grants from The Michael J. Fox Foundation. TSh declares employment for 
The Michael J. Fox Foundation. ASin declares employment for The National 
Institutes of Health who received grants from The Michael J. Fox Foundation and 
ASAP. ASin declares Diagnostic for Stroke royalties (unrelated to current work); 
honoraria from Movement Disorders Society and Nature Publishing Group; travel 
grants from Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, The Michael J. Fox Foundation and Weill 
Cornell. ASin’s spouse is an employee of GeneDx. ASin declares being an 
associate editor for the npj Parkinson’s Disease Editorial Board. DS has no 
declarations. MS declared consultancies for Mediflix, Inc., Health and Wellness 
Partners; honoraria from Atria Foundation, International Parkinson and Movement 
Disorder Society, Neurocrine, Luye Pharma and Acorda. MS serves on advisory 
board at Neuroderm, Alexza, Alexion and Biogen. CS declares employment for 
Amprion; stock ownership for Amprion; honoraria (will receive royalties for the 
sale of seed amplification assay [SAA]) from Amprion; and patents or patent 
applications, awarded and amplified in conjunction with Amprion for the SAA 
assay. ET has no declarations. ASid declares consultancies for SPARC 
Therapeutics, Capsida Therapeutics and Parkinson Study Group; honoraria from 
Bial; grants from The Michael J. Fox Foundation (member of PPMI Steering 
Committee); and participation on board at Wave Life Sciences, Inhibikase, 
Prevail, Huntington Study Group and Massachusetts General Hospital. BD 
declarations are TBD. TSi declares consultancies for AcureX, Adamas, AskBio, 
Amneal, Blue Rock Therapeutics, Critical Path for Parkinson’s Consortium, 
Denali, The Michael J. Fox Foundation, Neuroderm, Roche, Sanofi, Sinopia, 
Takeda, and Vanqua Bio; on advisory boards for AcureX, Adamas, AskBio, Biohaven, 
Denali, GAIN, Neuron23 and Roche; on scientific advisory boards for Koneksa, 
Neuroderm, Sanofi and UCB; and received research funding from Amneal, Biogen, 
Roche, Neuroderm, Sanofi, Prevail and UCB and an investigator for NINDS, MJFF, 
Parkinson’s Foundation. KMa declares support to his institution (Institute for 
Neurodegenerative Disorders) from The Michael J. Fox Foundation. KMa also 
declares consultancies for Invicro, The Michael J. Fox Foundation, Roche, 
Calico, Coave, Neuron23, Orbimed, Biohaven, Anofi, Koneksa, Merck, Lilly, 
Inhibikase, Neuramedy, IRLabs and Prothena and participates on DSMB at Biohaven.


41. Neurosci Insights. 2024 Sep 17;19:26331055241280638. doi: 
10.1177/26331055241280638. eCollection 2024.

Cacao Ameliorates Amyloid Beta-Induced Cognitive and Non-Cognitive Disturbances.

Basir HS(1), Mirazi N(1), Komaki A(2), Ramezani M(3), Hosseini A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Science, Bu-Ali Sina University, 
Hamedan, Iran.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, School of Science and Advanced Technologies in 
Medicine, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(3)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(4)Department of Animal Sciences and Marine Biology, Faculty of Life Sciences 
and Biotechnology, Shahid Beheshti University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurological disorder 
characterized by a wide range of cognitive and non-cognitive impairments. The 
present study was designed to investigate the potential effects of cacao on 
cognitive and non-cognitive performance and to identify the role of oxidative 
stress in an AD animal model induced by unilateral intracerebroventricular 
(U-ICV) injection of amyloid beta1-42 (Aβ1-42).
METHODS: Oral administration of cacao (0.5 g/kg/day) was performed for 
60 consecutive days. Following 60 days, the open-field (OF) test, elevated 
plus-maze (EPM) test, novel object recognition (NOR) test, Barnes maze (BM) 
test, and Morris water maze (MWM) test were used to evaluate locomotor activity, 
anxiety-like behavior, recognition memory, and spatial memory, respectively. 
Total oxidant status (TOS) and total antioxidant capacity (TAC) in plasma were 
also examined. Furthermore, the number of healthy cells in the hippocampus's 
dentate gyrus (DG), CA1, and CA3 regions were identified using hematoxylin and 
eosin staining.
RESULTS: The results indicated that the injection of Aβ1-42 in rats led to 
recognition memory and spatial memory impairments, as well as increased anxiety. 
This was accompanied by decreased total antioxidant capacity (TAC), increased 
total oxidative stress (TOS), and increased neuronal death. Conversely, cacao 
treatment in AD rats improved memory function, reduced anxiety, modulated 
oxidative stress balance, and decreased neuronal death.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest that cacao's ability to improve the balance 
between oxidants and antioxidants and prevent neuronal loss may be the mechanism 
underlying its beneficial effect against AD-related cognitive and non-cognitive 
impairments.

© The Author(s) 2024.

DOI: 10.1177/26331055241280638
PMCID: PMC11418343
PMID: 39314637

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


42. Cureus. 2024 Aug 23;16(8):e67633. doi: 10.7759/cureus.67633. eCollection 2024
 Aug.

Extended Reality in Revolutionizing Neurological Disease: A New Era for Chronic 
Condition Treatment.

V H(1), Pk MPK(1), Mg R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, SRM College of Pharmacy, SRM Institute of 
Science and Technology, Chennai, IND.

Extended reality (XR), which includes virtual reality (VR), augmented reality 
(AR), and mixed reality (MR), provides promising advancements in managing 
chronic neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple 
sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer's disease, and stroke. This review examines the impact 
of XR technologies on neurological care, highlighting their ability to create 
immersive, interactive environments that enhance rehabilitation through tailored 
motor and cognitive exercises. XR supports neuroplasticity by providing 
engaging, contextually relevant exercises and real-time feedback, offering 
innovative alternatives to traditional methods. The technical issues, clinical 
validation, and accessibility must be addressed despite the potential benefits. 
Future developments should focus on refining XR applications, integrating them 
with complementary technologies, and establishing robust policies to guide their 
effective and ethical use. XR is poised to revolutionize neurological 
rehabilitation, promising improved patient outcomes and transforming medical 
training.

Copyright © 2024, V et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.67633
PMCID: PMC11419588
PMID: 39314602

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


43. Cureus. 2024 Aug 22;16(8):e67454. doi: 10.7759/cureus.67454. eCollection 2024
 Aug.

The Efficacy of Prospective Memory and Metacognitive Skills Training in 
Improving the Cognitive Skills and the Quality of Life of Elderly Persons With 
Dementia.

P P(1), As S(1).

Author information:
(1)Occupational Therapy, Saveetha College of Occupational Therapy, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Saveetha University, Chennai, IND.

Introduction 
Elderly people may experience a deterioration in cognitive function as part of 
natural aging, which impacts their ability to function independently. Dementia 
is often experienced by the elderly; their cognitive and memory deficits can 
limit independence and productivity. Metacognitive skills training can 
facilitate self-awareness and strategy use and may improve cognitive skills.  
Aims and objectives  The article aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of 
prospective memory and metacognitive skills training in improving cognitive 
skills and quality of life for elderly persons with dementia.  Methods This was 
a quasi-experimental study that took place in Chennai city, India. Based on the 
criteria, a total of fifty (n = 50) elderly participants were selected and 
divided into control (n = 25) and experimental (n = 25) groups. The control 
group underwent conventional occupational therapy, whereas the experimental 
group underwent prospective memory and metacognitive skills training (PM and 
MST) over 36 sessions (three times/week, for 12 weeks). Outcome measures used 
were the mini mental status examination (MMSE) and quality of life - Alzheimer's 
disease (QOL-AD). Data were analyzed using the Mann-Whitney U test and Wilcoxon 
signed-rank test.  Results The results revealed that there were statistically 
significant (p-value < 0.05) differences between control and experimental 
groups. When compared to the control group, the experimental group had greater 
significant improvement in cognitive skills (MMSE, the control group's mean 
score was 20.94 and the experimental group's mean score was 30.94, p-value = 
0.026), and quality of life (QOL-AD, the control group's mean score was 13.54 
and the experimental group's mean score was 37.46, p-value = 0.000) after the 
implementation of a 12-week therapy program.  Conclusion This study concludes 
that PM and MST can be used as an effective intervention as it improves 
cognitive skills and quality of life among elderly persons with dementia.

Copyright © 2024, P et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.67454
PMCID: PMC11417287
PMID: 39314589

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent was obtained or waived 
by all participants in this study. Institutional Scientific Review Board of 
Saveetha College of Occupational Therapy issued approval SCOT/ISRB/016/2023. 
Animal subjects: All authors have confirmed that this study did not involve 
animal subjects or tissue. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE 
uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services 
info: All authors have declared that no financial support was received from any 
organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have 
declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the 
previous three years with any organizations that might have an interest in the 
submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared that there are no 
other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the 
submitted work.


44. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Sep 10:2024.09.05.611566. doi: 
10.1101/2024.09.05.611566.

Uncovering Plaque-Glia Niches in Human Alzheimer's Disease Brains Using Spatial 
Transcriptomics.

Avey DR, Ng B, Vialle RA, Kearns NA, de Paiva Lopes K, Iatrou A, De Tissera S, 
Vyas H, Saunders DM, Flood DJ, Xu J, Tasaki S, Gaiteri C, Bennett DA, Wang Y.

Update in
    Mol Neurodegener Adv. 2025;1(1):2. doi: 10.1186/s44477-025-00002-z.

Amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and surrounding glial activation are prominent 
histopathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). However, it is unclear 
how Aβ plaques interact with surrounding glial cells in the human brain. Here, 
we applied spatial transcriptomics (ST) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) for Aβ, 
GFAP, and IBA1 to acquire data from 258,987 ST spots within 78 postmortem brain 
sections of 21 individuals. By coupling ST and adjacent-section IHC, we showed 
that low Aβ spots exhibit transcriptomic profiles indicative of greater neuronal 
loss than high Aβ spots, and high-glia spots present transcriptomic changes 
indicative of more significant inflammation and neurodegeneration. Furthermore, 
we observed that this ST glial response bears signatures of reported mouse gene 
modules of plaque-induced genes (PIG), oligodendrocyte (OLIG) response, 
disease-associated microglia (DAM), and disease-associated astrocytes (DAA), as 
well as different microglia (MG) states identified in human AD brains, 
indicating that multiple glial cell states arise around plaques and contribute 
to local immune response. We then validated the observed effects of Aβ on cell 
apoptosis and plaque-surrounding glia on inflammation and synaptic loss using 
IHC. In addition, transcriptomic changes of iPSC-derived microglia-like cells 
upon short-interval Aβ treatment mimic the ST glial response and mirror the 
reported activated MG states. Our results demonstrate an exacerbation of 
synaptic and neuronal loss in low-Aβ or high-glia areas, indicating that 
microglia response to Aβ-oligomers likely initiates glial activation in 
plaque-glia niches. Our study lays the groundwork for future pathology genomics 
studies, opening the door for investigating pathological heterogeneity and 
causal effects in neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.09.05.611566
PMCID: PMC11418937
PMID: 39314329


45. Neural Regen Res. 2025 Sep 1;20(9):2538-2555. doi:
10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-00303.  Epub 2024 Sep 24.

Nanocarrier-mediated siRNA delivery: a new approach for the treatment of 
traumatic brain injury-related Alzheimer's disease.

Jin J(1), Zhang H(1)(2), Lu Q(1)(2), Tian L(3)(4), Yao S(5)(6), Lai F(3), Liang 
Y(1), Liu C(1), Lu Y(1), Tian S(1), Zhao Y(1)(2), Ren W(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Disaster and Emergency Medicine, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory for Disaster Medicine Technology, Tianjin, China.
(3)Henan Medical Key Laboratory for Research of Trauma and Orthopedics, The 
Third Affiliated Hospital of Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang, Henan 
Province, China.
(4)Clinical Medical Center of Tissue Engineering and Regeneration, Xinxiang 
Medical University, Xinxiang, Henan Province, China.
(5)Institutes of Health Central Plain, Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang, 
Henan Province, China.
(6)School of Public Health, Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang, Henan 
Province, China.

Traumatic brain injury and Alzheimer's disease share pathological similarities, 
including neuronal loss, amyloid-β deposition, tau hyperphosphorylation, 
blood-brain barrier dysfunction, neuroinflammation, and cognitive deficits. 
Furthermore, traumatic brain injury can exacerbate Alzheimer's disease-like 
pathologies, potentially leading to the development of Alzheimer's disease. 
Nanocarriers offer a potential solution by facilitating the delivery of small 
interfering RNAs across the blood-brain barrier for the targeted silencing of 
key pathological genes implicated in traumatic brain injury and Alzheimer's 
disease. Unlike traditional approaches to neuroregeneration, this is a 
molecular-targeted strategy, thus avoiding non-specific drug actions. This 
review focuses on the use of nanocarrier systems for the efficient and precise 
delivery of siRNAs, discussing the advantages, challenges, and future 
directions. In principle, siRNAs have the potential to target all genes and 
non-targetable proteins, holding significant promise for treating various 
diseases. Among the various therapeutic approaches currently available for 
neurological diseases, siRNA gene silencing can precisely "turn off" the 
expression of any gene at the genetic level, thus radically inhibiting disease 
progression; however, a significant challenge lies in delivering siRNAs across 
the blood-brain barrier. Nanoparticles have received increasing attention as an 
innovative drug delivery tool for the treatment of brain diseases. They are 
considered a potential therapeutic strategy with the advantages of being able to 
cross the blood-brain barrier, targeted drug delivery, enhanced drug stability, 
and multifunctional therapy. The use of nanoparticles to deliver specific 
modified siRNAs to the injured brain is gradually being recognized as a feasible 
and effective approach. Although this strategy is still in the preclinical 
exploration stage, it is expected to achieve clinical translation in the future, 
creating a new field of molecular targeted therapy and precision medicine for 
the treatment of Alzheimer's disease associated with traumatic brain injury.

Copyright © 2025 Copyright: © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-00303
PMCID: PMC11801294
PMID: 39314170

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


46. Neural Regen Res. 2025 Oct 1;20(10):2823-2837. doi:
10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-00539.  Epub 2024 Sep 24.

Progress of research in the application of ultrasound technology for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Cai Q(1), Meng L(1), Quan M(2), Wang L(1)(3)(4), Ren J(1), Zheng C(1)(3)(4), 
Yang J(1)(3)(4), Ming D(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Academy of Medical Engineering and Translational Medicine, Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, China.
(2)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing, China.
(3)Brain-Computer Interaction and Human-Machine Fusion Haihe Laboratory, Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, China.
(4)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Brain Science and Neural Engineering, Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, China.

Alzheimer's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder defined by decreased 
reasoning abilities, memory loss, and cognitive deterioration. The presence of 
the blood-brain barrier presents a major obstacle to the development of 
effective drug therapies for Alzheimer's disease. The use of ultrasound as a 
novel physical modulation approach has garnered widespread attention in recent 
years. As a safe and feasible therapeutic and drug-delivery method, ultrasound 
has shown promise in improving cognitive deficits. This article provides a 
summary of the application of ultrasound technology for treating Alzheimer's 
disease over the past 5 years, including standalone ultrasound treatment, 
ultrasound combined with microbubbles or drug therapy, and magnetic resonance 
imaging-guided focused ultrasound therapy. Emphasis is placed on the benefits of 
introducing these treatment methods and their potential mechanisms. We found 
that several ultrasound methods can open the blood-brain barrier and effectively 
alleviate amyloid-β plaque deposition. We believe that ultrasound is an 
effective therapy for Alzheimer's disease, and this review provides a 
theoretical basis for future ultrasound treatment methods.

Copyright © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-00539
PMCID: PMC11826464
PMID: 39314155

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


47. Neural Regen Res. 2025 Sep 1;20(9):2495-2512. doi:
10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-00230.  Epub 2024 Sep 24.

The dopaminergic system and Alzheimer's disease.

Zhang Y(1), Liang Y(2), Gu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)International Medical College, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 
China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing Key Laboratory of Neurology, Chongqing, China.

Alzheimer's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder in older adults. 
Despite its prevalence, its pathogenesis remains unclear. In addition to the 
most widely accepted causes, which include excessive amyloid-beta aggregation, 
tau hyperphosphorylation, and deficiency of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, 
numerous studies have shown that the dopaminergic system is also closely 
associated with the occurrence and development of this condition. Dopamine is a 
crucial catecholaminergic neurotransmitter in the human body. 
Dopamine-associated treatments, such as drugs that target dopamine receptor D 
and dopamine analogs, can improve cognitive function and alleviate psychiatric 
symptoms as well as ameliorate other clinical manifestations. However, 
therapeutics targeting the dopaminergic system are associated with various 
adverse reactions, such as addiction and exacerbation of cognitive impairment. 
This review summarizes the role of the dopaminergic system in the pathology of 
Alzheimer's disease, focusing on currently available dopamine-based therapies 
for this disorder and the common side effects associated with dopamine-related 
drugs. The aim of this review is to provide insights into the potential 
connections between the dopaminergic system and Alzheimer's disease, thus 
helping to clarify the mechanisms underlying the condition and exploring more 
effective therapeutic options.

Copyright © 2025 Copyright: © 2025 Neural Regeneration Research.

DOI: 10.4103/NRR.NRR-D-24-00230
PMCID: PMC11801300
PMID: 39314145

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors report there 
are no competing interest to declare.


48. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2024 Dec 16;63(51):e202411942. doi: 
10.1002/anie.202411942. Epub 2024 Nov 6.

Drug Discovery and Screening Tool Development for Tauopathies by Focusing on 
Pathogenic Tau Repeat 3 Oligomers.

Yoon S(1)(2), Kim HY(2), Park S(2), Cha M(2), Kim K(2), Lee S(2), Kim J(2), 
Bhang S(2)(3), Kim Y(1)(2)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Biotechnology, Yonsei University, 85 
Songdogwahak-ro, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, 21983, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Yonsei Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
College of Pharmacy, Yonsei University, 85 Songdogwahak-ro, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, 
21983, Republic of Korea.
(3)Integrated Science and Engineering Division, Yonsei University, 85 
Songdogwahak-ro, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, 21983, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Institute of Behavioral Science in Medicine, Yonsei 
University College of Medicine, 50-1, Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 03722, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)POSTECH-Yonsei Campus, Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH), 
77 Cheongam-Ro, Nam-Gu, Pohang, Gyeongbuk, 37673, Republic of Korea.
(6)Amyloid Solution inc., 58 Pangyo-ro 255 beon-gil, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, 
Gyeonggi-do, 13486, Republic of Korea.

Comprehending early amyloidogenesis is essential for the development of 
effective therapeutic strategies. In tauopathies like Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
the abnormal accumulation of tau protein is initiated by pathological tau seeds. 
Mounting evidence implies that the microtubule binding domain, consisting of 
three to four repeats, plays a pivotal role in this process, yet the exact 
region driving the formation of pathogenic species needs to be further 
scrutinized. Here, we chemically synthesized individual tau repeats to identify 
those exhibiting pathogenic prion-like characteristics. Notably, repeat 3 (R3) 
displayed a remarkable propensity to polymerize, form toxic filaments, and 
induce cognitive impairment, even in the absence of an aggregation-promoting 
inducer, highlighting its physiological relevance. Additionally, oligomeric R3 
was identified as a particularly pathological form, prompting the establishment 
of a screening platform. Through screening, tolcapone was found to possess 
therapeutic efficacy against pathological tau aggregates in PS19 transgenic 
mice. This screening platform provides a valuable avenue for identifying 
compounds that selectively interact with peptides implicated in the progression 
of tauopathies.

© 2024 The Authors. Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by 
Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/anie.202411942
PMID: 39314129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Curr Pharm Des. 2025;31(5):377-390. doi:
10.2174/0113816128321501240828054050.

Optimization of Glyburide-loaded Nanosuspensions via Ball Milling and 
Homogenization Techniques: A Central Composite Design Approach for Enhanced 
Solubility.

Gungor D(1), Aytekin E(1), Akdag Y(1), Sahin S(1), Gulsun T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Hacettepe 
University, Ankara 06100, Turkey.

INTRODUCTION: Glyburide is a drug for the treatment of diabetes mellitus and has 
a potential effect on Alzheimer's disease. It is also a BCS Class II drug with 
low solubility and low permeability. Developing a nanosuspension formulation and 
increasing the solubility and dissolution rate of glyburide is required to 
overcome this challenge.
METHODS: Thus, the goal of this work was to create glyburide nanosuspensions by 
ball milling and homogenizing glyburide to increase its solubility and rate of 
dissolution. To achieve this, the nanosuspension formulation was optimized using 
a central composite design. Zeta potential, particle size distribution and 
solubility were selected by way of dependent variables, and ball milling time, 
homogenization cycles, and Pluronic F-127/glyburide ratio were chosen as 
independent variables. Glyburide nanosuspensions were obtained with a particle 
size of 244.6 ± 2.685 nm. In vitro release and solubility studies were conducted 
following optimization.
RESULTS: The saturation solubility of glyburide was nearly doubled as a result 
of the nanocrystal formation. X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron 
microscopy (SEM), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), and fourier-transform 
infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) were used to assess the nanosuspension. SEM images 
confirmed that the nanocrystal formation process was successful. Glyburide and 
the excipients have no incompatibilities, their physical states have not 
changed, and the preparation method has not affected the stability of glyburide, 
according to DCS, XRD, and FT-IR analyses.
CONCLUSION: These studies indicated that a combination of ball milling and 
homogenization techniques significantly enhanced the solubility of glyburide and 
its release from the formulation. Consequently, this approach can be applied to 
formulations characterized by low absorption and limited bioavailability.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113816128321501240828054050
PMID: 39313907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. J Physiol Sci. 2024 Sep 23;74(1):46. doi: 10.1186/s12576-024-00933-4.

Limitations and potential strategies of immune checkpoint blockade in 
age-related neurodegenerative disorders.

Lasheen NN(1)(2), Allam S(3), Elgarawany A(3), Aswa DW(3), Mansour R(3), Farouk 
Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Galala University, 
Suez, Egypt. nohalasheen@gu.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University, Cairo, 
Egypt. nohalasheen@gu.edu.eg.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Galala University, Galala City, Suez, Egypt.

Neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Parkinson's disease 
(PD) have no disease-modifying treatments, resulting in a global dementia crisis 
that affects more than 50 million people. Amyloid-beta (Aβ), tau, and 
alpha-synuclein (α-Syn) are three crucial proteins that are involved in the 
pathogenesis of these age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Only a few 
approved AD medications have been used in the clinic up to this point, and their 
results are only partial symptomatic alleviation for AD patients and cannot stop 
the progression of AD. Immunotherapies have attracted considerable interest as 
they target certain protein strains and conformations as well as promote 
clearance. Immunotherapies also have the potential to be neuroprotective: as 
they limit synaptic damage and spread of neuroinflammation by neutralizing 
extracellular protein aggregates. Lately, disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) 
that can alter the pathophysiology that underlies AD with anti-Aβ monoclonal 
antibodies (MAbs) (e.g., aducanumab, lecanemab, gantenerumab, donanemab, 
solanezumab, crenezumab, tilavonemab). Similarly, in Parkinson's disease (PD), 
DMTs utilizing anti-αSyn (MAbs) (e.g., prasinezumab, cinpanemab,) are 
progressively being developed and evaluated in clinical trials. These therapies 
are based on the hypothesis that both AD and PD may involve systemic impairments 
in cell-dependent clearance mechanisms of amyloid-beta (Aβ) and alpha-synuclein 
(αSyn), respectively, meaning the body's overall inability to effectively remove 
Aβ and αSyn due to malfunctioning cellular mechanisms. In this review we will 
provide possible evidence behind the use of immunotherapy with MAbs in AD and PD 
and highlight the recent clinical development landscape of anti-Aβ (MAbs) and 
anti-αSyn (MAbs) from these clinical trials in order to better investigate the 
therapeutic possibilities and adverse effects of these anti-Aβ and anti-αSyn 
MAbs on AD and PD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12576-024-00933-4
PMCID: PMC11421184
PMID: 39313800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


51. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Mar;62(3):3630-3652. doi: 10.1007/s12035-024-04462-4.
Epub  2024 Sep 23.

Unlocking Hope: Therapeutic Advances and Approaches in Modulating the Wnt 
Pathway for Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Faraji N(1), Ebadpour N(2), Abavisani M(1), Gorji A(3)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 
Iran.
(2)Immunology Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 
Iran.
(3)Neuroscience Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran. gorjial@uni-muenster.de.
(4)Epilepsy Research Center, Münster University, Münster, Germany. 
gorjial@uni-muenster.de.
(5)Shefa Neuroscience Research Center, Khatam Alanbia Hospital, Tehran, Iran. 
gorjial@uni-muenster.de.
(6)Neurosurgery Department, Münster University, Münster, Germany. 
gorjial@uni-muenster.de.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) are conditions characterized by sensory, motor, 
and cognitive impairments due to alterations in the structure and function of 
neurons in the central nervous system (CNS). Despite their widespread 
occurrence, the exact causes of NDs remain largely elusive, and existing 
treatments fall short in efficacy. The Wnt signaling pathway is an emerging 
molecular pathway that has been linked to the development and progression of 
various NDs. Wnt signaling governs numerous cellular processes, such as 
survival, polarity, proliferation, differentiation, migration, and fate 
specification, via a complex network of proteins. In the adult CNS, Wnt 
signaling regulates synaptic transmission, plasticity, memory formation, 
neurogenesis, neuroprotection, and neuroinflammation, all essential for 
maintaining neuronal function and integrity. Dysregulation of both canonical and 
non-canonical Wnt signaling pathways contributes to neurodegeneration through 
various mechanisms, such as amyloid-β accumulation, tau protein 
hyperphosphorylation, dopaminergic neuron degeneration, and synaptic 
dysfunction, prompting investigations into Wnt modulation as a therapeutic 
target to restore neuronal function and prevent or delay neurodegenerative 
processes. Modulating Wnt signaling has the potential to restore neuronal 
function and impede or postpone neurodegenerative processes, offering a 
therapeutic approach for targeting NDs. In this article, the current knowledge 
about how Wnt signaling works in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease is 
discussed. Our study aims to explore the molecular mechanisms, recent 
discoveries, and challenges involved in developing Wnt-based therapies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-024-04462-4
PMCID: PMC11790780
PMID: 39313658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: NA. Consent to 
Participate: NA. Competing Interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


52. Transl Psychiatry. 2024 Sep 23;14(1):386. doi: 10.1038/s41398-024-03073-w.

Beyond the usual suspects: multi-factorial computational models in the search 
for neurodegenerative disease mechanisms.

Khan AF(1)(2)(3), Iturria-Medina Y(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute, 
McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)McConnell Brain Imaging Center, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal, 
Canada.
(3)Ludmer Centre for Neuroinformatics & Mental Health, Montreal, Canada.
(4)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute, 
McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. yasser.iturriamedina@mcgill.ca.
(5)McConnell Brain Imaging Center, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal, 
Canada. yasser.iturriamedina@mcgill.ca.
(6)Ludmer Centre for Neuroinformatics & Mental Health, Montreal, Canada. 
yasser.iturriamedina@mcgill.ca.

From Alzheimer's disease to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the molecular 
cascades underlying neurodegenerative disorders remain poorly understood. The 
clinical view of neurodegeneration is confounded by symptomatic heterogeneity 
and mixed pathology in almost every patient. While the underlying physiological 
alterations originate, proliferate, and propagate potentially decades before 
symptomatic onset, the complexity and inaccessibility of the living brain limit 
direct observation over a patient's lifespan. Consequently, there is a critical 
need for robust computational methods to support the search for causal 
mechanisms of neurodegeneration by distinguishing pathogenic processes from 
consequential alterations, and inter-individual variability from 
intra-individual progression. Recently, promising advances have been made by 
data-driven spatiotemporal modeling of the brain, based on in vivo neuroimaging 
and biospecimen markers. These methods include disease progression models 
comparing the temporal evolution of various biomarkers, causal models linking 
interacting biological processes, network propagation models reproducing the 
spatial spreading of pathology, and biophysical models spanning cellular- to 
network-scale phenomena. In this review, we discuss various computational 
approaches for integrating cross-sectional, longitudinal, and multi-modal data, 
primarily from large observational neuroimaging studies, to understand (i) the 
temporal ordering of physiological alterations, i(i) their spatial relationships 
to the brain's molecular and cellular architecture, (iii) mechanistic 
interactions between biological processes, and (iv) the macroscopic effects of 
microscopic factors. We consider the extents to which computational models can 
evaluate mechanistic hypotheses, explore applications such as improving 
treatment selection, and discuss how model-informed insights can lay the 
groundwork for a pathobiological redefinition of neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-024-03073-w
PMCID: PMC11420368
PMID: 39313512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


53. Adv Biol Regul. 2024 Dec;94:101053. doi: 10.1016/j.jbior.2024.101053. Epub
2024  Sep 19.

Characterisation of molecular mechanisms for PLCγ2 disease-linked variants.

Bunney TD(1), Kampyli C(1), Gregory A(1), Katan M(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, Division of Biosciences, 
University College London, London, UK.
(2)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, Division of Biosciences, 
University College London, London, UK. Electronic address: m.katan@ucl.ac.uk.

The phospholipase C enzyme PLCγ2 is best characterised in the context of immune 
cell regulation. Furthermore, many mutations discovered in PLCγ2 have been 
linked to the development of complex immune disorders as well as resistance to 
ibrutinib treatment in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Importantly, it has also 
been found that a rare variant of PLCγ2 (P522R) has a protective role in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Despite initial characterisation of these 
disease-linked variants, a comprehensive understanding of their differences and 
underpinning molecular mechanisms, needed to facilitate therapeutic efforts, is 
lacking. Here, we used available structural insights for PLCγ enzymes to further 
analyse PLCγ2 M1141K mutation, representative for mutations in immune disorders 
and cancer resistance, and the AD-protective variant, PLCγ2 P522R. Together with 
several other mutations in the autoinhibitory interface, the PLCγ2 M1141K 
mutation was strongly activating in a cell-based assay, under basal and 
stimulated conditions. Measurements of PLC activity in various in vitro assays 
demonstrated enhanced activity of PLCγ2 M1141K while the activity of PLCγ2 P522R 
was not significantly different from the WT. Similar trends were observed in 
several other assays, including direct liposome binding. However, an enhanced 
rate of phosphorylation of a functionally important tyrosine by Btk in vitro was 
observed for PLCγ2 P522R variants. To further assess implications of these in 
vitro findings in a cellular context relevant for the PLCγ2 P522R variant, 
microglia (BV2) stable cell lines were generated and analysed under growth 
conditions. The PLC activity in cells expressing PLCγ2 P522R at physiologically 
relevant levels was clearly enhanced compared to the WT, and differences in cell 
morphology observed. These data, combined with the structural insights, suggest 
that the PLCγ2 P522R variant has subtle, localised structural changes that do 
not directly affect the PLC activity by compromising autoinhibition, as 
determined for PLCγ2 M1141K. It is also likely that in contrast to the PLCγ2 
M1141K, the functional impact of the P522R substitution completely depends on 
further interactions with upstream kinases and other regulatory proteins in a 
relevant cellular context, where changes in the PLCγ2 P522R variant could 
facilitate processes such as phosphorylation and protein-protein interactions.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbior.2024.101053
PMID: 39313402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


54. Appl Clin Inform. 2025 Jan;16(1):11-23. doi: 10.1055/a-2420-0413. Epub 2024
Sep  23.

A Comprehensive Multifunctional Approach for Measuring Parkinson's Disease 
Severity.

Rahimi M(1), Al Masry Z(2), Templeton JM(3), Schneider S(4), Poellabauer C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Computing and Information Sciences, Florida International 
University, Miami, Florida, United States.
(2)SUPMICROTECH, CNRS, Institut FEMTO-ST, Besançon, France.
(3)College of Computer Science and Engineering, University of South Florida, 
Tampa, Florida, United States.
(4)Department of Communicative Sciences and Disorders, Saint Mary's College, 
Notre Dame, Indiana, United States.

OBJECTIVES:  This research study aims to advance the staging of Parkinson's 
disease (PD) by incorporating machine learning to assess and include a broader 
multifunctional spectrum of neurocognitive symptoms in the staging schemes 
beyond motor-centric assessments. Specifically, we provide a novel framework to 
modernize and personalize PD staging more objectively by proposing a hybrid 
feature scoring approach.
METHODS:  We recruited 37 individuals diagnosed with PD, each of whom completed 
a series of tablet-based neurocognitive tests assessing motor, memory, speech, 
executive functions, and tasks ranging in complexity from single to 
multifunctional. Then, the collected data were used to develop a hybrid feature 
scoring system to calculate a weighted vector for each function. We evaluated 
the current PD staging schemes and developed a new approach based on the 
features selected and extracted using random forest and principal component 
analysis.
RESULTS:  Our findings indicate a substantial bias in current PD staging systems 
toward fine motor skills, that is, other neurological functions (memory, speech, 
executive function, etc.) do not map into current PD stages as well as fine 
motor skills do. The results demonstrate that a more accurate and personalized 
assessment of PD severity could be achieved by including a more exhaustive range 
of neurocognitive functions in the staging systems either by involving multiple 
functions in a unified staging score or by designing a function-specific staging 
system.
CONCLUSION:  The proposed hybrid feature score approach provides a comprehensive 
understanding of PD by highlighting the need for a staging system that covers 
various neurocognitive functions. This approach could potentially lead to more 
effective, objective, and personalized treatment strategies. Further, this 
proposed methodology could be adapted to other neurodegenerative conditions such 
as Alzheimer's disease or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-2420-0413
PMCID: PMC11693400
PMID: 39313211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


55. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2024 Dec;257:108429. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2024.108429. Epub 2024 Sep 16.

Investigating the effect of brain atrophy on transcranial direct current 
stimulation: A computational study using ADNI dataset.

Im C(1), Song CB(2), Lee J(2), Kim D(2), Seo H(3); Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Gwangju Institute of 
Science and Technology, Gwangju 61005, South Korea.
(2)Research Institute, Neurophet, Inc., Seoul 06234, South Korea.
(3)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Gyeongsang National 
University, Jinju 52828, South Korea; Department of AI Convergence Engineering, 
Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 52828, South Korea. Electronic address: 
hseo0612@gnu.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive 
brain stimulation technique that uses weak electrical currents to modulate brain 
activity, thus potentially aiding the treatment of brain diseases. Although tDCS 
offers convenience, it yields inconsistent electric-field distributions among 
individuals. This inconsistency may be attributed to certain factors, such as 
brain atrophy. Brain atrophy is accompanied by increased cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) volume. Owing to the high electrical conductivity of CSF, its increased 
volume complicates current delivery to the brain, thus resulting in greater 
inter-subject variability.
OBJECTIVE: We aim to investigate the differences in tDCS-induced electric fields 
between groups with different severities of brain atrophy.
METHODS: We classified 180 magnetic resonance images into four groups based on 
the presence of Alzheimer's disease and sex. We used two montages, i.e., F-3 & 
Fp-2 and TP-9 & TP-10, to target the left rostral middle frontal gyrus and the 
hippocampus/amygdala complex, respectively. Differences between the groups in 
terms of regional volume variation, stimulation effect, and correlation were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Significant differences were observed in the geometrical variations of 
the CSF and two target regions. Electric fields induced by tDCS were similar in 
both sexes. Unique patterns were observed in each group in the correlation 
analysis.
CONCLUSION: Our findings show that factors such as brain atrophy affect the tDCS 
results and that the factors present complex relationships. Further studies are 
necessary to better understand the relationships between these factors and 
optimize tDCS as a therapeutic tool.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2024.108429
PMID: 39312820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None declared.


56. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2024 Oct;121(40):e2402983121. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2402983121. Epub 2024 Sep 23.

A sensitive assay for measuring whole-blood responses to type I IFNs.

Gervais A(1)(2), Le Floc'h C(1)(2), Le Voyer T(1)(2)(3)(4), Bizien L(1)(2), 
Bohlen J(1)(2), Celmeli F(5), Al Qureshah F(3), Masson C(6), Rosain 
J(1)(2)(3)(7), Chbihi M(2)(8), Lévy R(1)(2)(3)(8), Castagnoli R(9)(10), 
Rothenbuhler A(11), Jouanguy E(1)(2)(3), Zhang Q(1)(2)(3), Zhang SY(1)(2)(3), 
Béziat V(1)(2)(3), Bustamante J(1)(2)(3)(7), Puel A(#)(1)(2)(3), Bastard 
P(#)(1)(2)(3)(8), Casanova JL(#)(1)(2)(3)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, Institut 
National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale U1163, Necker Hospital for Sick 
Children, Paris 75015, France.
(2)Paris Cité University, Imagine Institute, Paris 75015, France.
(3)St. Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller 
Branch, Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065.
(4)Clinical Immunology Department, Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, 
Saint-Louis Hospital, Paris 75010, France.
(5)Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, Antalya Education and Research 
Hospital, University of Medical Science, Antalya 07100, Türkiye.
(6)Bioinformatics Core Facility, Université Paris Cité-Structure Fédérative de 
Recherche Necker, INSERM US24/CNRS UMS3633, Paris 75015, France.
(7)Study Center for Primary Immunodeficiencies, Necker Hospital for Sick 
Children, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris 75015, France.
(8)Pediatric Hematology-Immunology and Rheumatology Unit, Necker Hospital for 
Sick Children, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris 75015, France.
(9)Pediatric Unit, Department of Clinical, Surgical, Diagnostic, and Pediatric 
Sciences, University of Pavia, Pavia 27100, Italy.
(10)Pediatric Clinic, Fondazione Istituto di ricovero e cura a carattere 
scientifico (IRCCS) Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia 27100, Italy.
(11)Endocrinology and Diabetes for children, Reference Center for rare diseases 
of calcium and phosphate metabolism, OSCAR network, Platform of expertise for 
rare diseases of Paris Saclay Hospital, Bicêtre Paris Saclay Hospital, Le 
Kremlin-Bicêtre 94270, France.
(12)HHMI, New York, NY 10065.
(13)Department of Pediatrics, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, Paris 75015, 
France.
(#)Contributed equally

Human inborn errors of the type I IFN response pathway and auto-Abs neutralizing 
IFN-α, -β, and/or -ω can underlie severe viral illnesses. We report a simple 
assay for the detection of both types of condition. We stimulate whole blood 
from healthy individuals and patients with either inborn errors of type I IFN 
immunity or auto-Abs against type I IFNs with glycosylated human IFN-α2, -β, or 
-ω. As controls, we add a monoclonal antibody (mAb) blocking the type I IFN 
receptors and stimulated blood with IFN-γ (type II IFN). Of the molecules we 
test, IP-10 (encoded by the interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) CXCL10) is the 
molecule most strongly induced by type I and type II IFNs in the whole blood of 
healthy donors in an ELISA-like assay. In patients with inherited IFNAR1, 
IFNAR2, TYK2, or IRF9 deficiency, IP-10 is induced only by IFN-γ, whereas, in 
those with auto-Abs neutralizing specific type I IFNs, IP-10 is also induced by 
the type I IFNs not neutralized by the auto-Abs. The measurement of type I and 
type II IFN-dependent IP-10 induction therefore constitutes a simple procedure 
for detecting rare inborn errors of the type I IFN response pathway and more 
common auto-Abs neutralizing type I IFNs.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2402983121
PMCID: PMC11459193
PMID: 39312669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:J.L.-C. is an 
inventor on patent application PCT/US2021/042741, filed July 22, 2021, submitted 
by The Rockefeller University and covering the diagnosis of susceptibility to, 
and the treatment of, viral disease, and viral vaccines, including COVID-19 and 
vaccine-associated diseases. Reviewer S.R.O. is a co-author of two recent papers 
with J.L.C. Reviewer P.H. has a collaboration with the Casanova group in the 
exchange of reagents, but it does not cover the topic of this collaboration.


57. Medicine (Baltimore). 2024 Sep 20;103(38):e39753. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000039753.

Effect of long-term pharmacological treatments on Alzheimer disease: A 
systematic review and network meta-analysis.

Deng X(1), Li D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chengdu Tianhui Community Health 
Service Center, Sichuan, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, 
University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Sichuan, China.

BACKGROUND: To analyze and compare the pharmacological treatments for Alzheimer 
disease (AD), we will conduct a systematic review and network meta-analysis 
focusing on their efficacy and safety over a duration exceeding 1 year.
METHODS: We searched the databases of PubMed, Scopus, EMBASE, Web of Science, 
the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and CNKI until July 30, 
2023, for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating pharmacological 
treatments for AD.
RESULTS: Seventeen RCTs, comprising 7214 participants, investigated the efficacy 
of the following drugs: Donepezil, Rivastigmine, Galantamine, Memantine, Ginkgo 
biloba extract (EGb), Atorvastatin-calcium and Vitamin B in the treatment of AD. 
The network meta-analysis resulted indicated that placebo demonstrated greater 
effectiveness compared to Atorvastatin-calcium 80 mg (mean different 
[MD] = -6.93, confidence interval [CI] -11.57, -2.29) and Rivastigmine 12 mg 
(MD = -3.33, CI -6.56, -0.09). EGb120 mg exhibited a greater improvement in 
cognition compared to Atorvastatin-calcium 80 mg (MD = 7.77, CI 2.07, 13.46) and 
Rivastigmine 12 mg + EGb120 mg (MD = 9.92, CI 1.32, 17.22). EGb 120 mg emerged 
as the most efficient intervention for cognition, while placebo demonstrated the 
least harm over a period exceeding 1 year.
CONCLUSIONS: In this network meta-analysis of studies of patients with AD and a 
follow-up period of at least 1 year, EGb 120 mg demonstrated cognitive benefits, 
while placebo posed the least harm for AD. More RCTs are required to address the 
uncertainty surrounding the efficacy of medication.

Copyright © 2024 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000039753
PMCID: PMC11419515
PMID: 39312316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no funding and conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


58. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2025 Feb 3;77(2):222-235. doi: 10.1093/jpp/rgae113.

Systems pharmacology-based drug discovery from Amaryllidaceae alkaloids and 
investigation of mechanisms of action in treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Li J(1), Chen J(1)(2), Qu D(1)(3), Zhu L(1), Ye S(1), Li M(4), Li W(5), Ding 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)SKL of Marine Food Processing & Safety Control, National Engineering Research 
Center of Seafood, School of Food Science and Technology, Dalian Polytechnic 
University, Dalian, Liaoning 116034, China.
(2)MabPlex International Co., Ltd., Yantai, Shandong 264006, China.
(3)Human Resources Department, Shenyang Jianzhu University, Shenyang, Liaoning 
110168, China.
(4)College of Basic Medical Science, Dalian Medical University, Dalian, Liaoning 
116044, China.
(5)Korean Medicine (KM) Application Center, Korea Institute of Oriental 
Medicine, Daegu 41062, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: Given the success of galanthamine in treating Alzheimer's disease, 
this study aims to establish an effective method to find drugs from 
Amaryllidaceae alkaloids and to clarify its mechanism in treating Alzheimer's 
disease.
METHODS: The pharmacodynamic basis and mechanism of action between 
Amaryllidaceae alkaloids and Alzheimer's disease were explored by constructing a 
compound-target-disease network, targets protein-protein interaction, gene 
ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment, and 
molecular docking verification.
KEY FINDINGS: In total, a chemical library of 357 potential alkaloids was 
constructed. A total of 100 active alkaloid components were identified. 
Thirty-nine associated targets were yielded based on network construction, and 
the key targets were defined as HSP90AA1, ESR1, NOS3, PTGS2, and PPARG using 
protein-protein interaction network. Gene ontology items (490) and 68 Kyoto 
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways were selected through the enrichment 
of target functions, including neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, calcium 
signaling pathway, cAMP signaling pathway, Alzheimer disease, and serotonergic 
synapse that were related to Alzheimer's disease. Lastly, molecular docking 
demonstrated good stability in combining selected alkaloids with targets.
CONCLUSIONS: This study explained the mechanisms of Amaryllidaceae alkaloids in 
preventing and treating Alzheimer's disease and established a novel strategy to 
discover new drugs from biological chemical sources.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Royal Pharmaceutical Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please 
contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All 
other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the 
Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please 
contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jpp/rgae113
PMID: 39312276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Hormones (Athens). 2025 Mar;24(1):3-13. doi: 10.1007/s42000-024-00602-6. Epub
 2024 Sep 23.

Harnessing the benefits of physical exercise-induced melatonin: a potential 
promising approach to combat Alzheimer's disease by targeting beta-amyloid (Aβ).

Bian R(1), Xiang L(2), Su Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Henan Police College, Zhengzhou, Henan, 450046, China. bianrui2024@163.com.
(2)Faculty of Physical Education, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China.
(3)Faculty of Physical Education, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China. 
Zhanguo.Su3520@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurogenerative disease that impairs 
cognition, learning, behavior, and memory. The aberrant accumulation of 
extracellular amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques is a characteristic of AD. It has been 
demonstrated that melatonin exerts a significant role in AD prevention and 
treatment via its antioxidant effects, reducing neuroinflammation, and Aβ. 
Moreover, studies have shown that physical exercise (PE) is not only a promising 
non-pharmacological strategy for AD prevention and treatment but can also lead 
to an increase in melatonin levels. Hence, we hypothesized that PE can 
contribute to AD prevention and treatment by increasing melatonin levels and 
reducing Aβ accumulation, enhancing Aβ clearance, and modulating inflammation in 
these patients. However, the mechanisms by which PE increases melatonin 
synthesis and the cellular and molecular mechanisms of actions of melatonin in 
AD prevention and treatment have not to date been completely understood. 
Therefore, in the future, further investigations are required to elucidate the 
underlying mechanisms, optimize intervention strategies, identify biomarkers, 
and validate findings through clinical trials. Understanding the potential of 
exercise-induced melatonin in AD holds promise for innovative therapeutic 
interventions and future directions in AD research.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Hellenic Endocrine Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s42000-024-00602-6
PMID: 39312178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics: Approval and consent to 
participate are not applicable. Conflict of interest: All authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest relevant to the content of this review. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable.


60. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Nov;20(11):7777-7787. doi: 10.1002/alz.14239. Epub
2024  Sep 23.

Self- and study partner-reported cognitive decline in older adults without 
dementia: The role of α-synuclein and amyloid biomarkers in the Alzheimer's 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Thomas KR(1)(2), Bangen KJ(1)(2), Rotblatt LJ(1)(2), Weigand AJ(3), Edwards 
L(3), Tosun D(4), Galasko D(5); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California, USA.
(2)VA San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, California, USA.
(3)San Diego State University/University of California, San Diego Joint Doctoral 
Program in Clinical Psychology, San Diego, California, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(5)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Subjective cognitive decline (SCD) may be an early marker of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Until recently, it was impossible to measure 
biomarkers specific for α-synuclein pathology; therefore, its association with 
subjective reports of cognitive decline is unknown.
METHODS: Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative participants without 
dementia (n = 918) were classified as positive or negative for amyloid beta (Aβ+ 
or Aβ-) and α-synuclein (α-syn+ or α-syn-) biomarkers. Self- and study 
partner-reported cognitive decline was measured with the Everyday Cognition 
(ECog) questionnaire.
RESULTS: Per self-report, Aβ+/α-syn+ had the greatest cognitive decline. 
Aβ-/α-syn+ did not differ from Aβ-/α-syn- across ECog scores. Study 
partner-reported results had a similar pattern, but Aβ+/α-syn- and Aβ+/α-syn+ 
did not differ across ECog scores. Mild cognitive impairment classification 
moderated the study partner-reported memory score.
DISCUSSION: While α-syn+ alone did not increase subjective reports of cognitive 
decline, Aβ+/α-syn+ had the most self- and study partner-rated cognitive 
decline. Therefore, the presence of multiple pathologies was associated with 
greater SCD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Cerebrospinal fluid α-synuclein (α-syn) seed amplification assay was 
used to determine α-syn positivity. Amyloid beta (Aβ)-/α-syn-, Aβ-/α-syn+, 
Aβ+/α-syn-, and Aβ+/α-syn+ biomarker groups were created. Aβ+/α-syn+ had greater 
subjective cognitive decline (SCD) than the other biomarker groups. Aβ-/α-syn+ 
did not differ from Aβ-/α-syn- across self- or study-partner reported SCD 
scores. Study partner-reported subjective memory results were largely driven by 
participants with mild cognitive impairment.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14239
PMCID: PMC11567851
PMID: 39311775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Galasko is a consultant for Biogen, Eisai, 
Fujirebio, General Electric Healthcare, and Artery Therapeutics. Other authors 
report no disclosures. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.61. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Nov;20(11):8172-8182. doi: 10.1002/alz.14219. Epub
2024  Sep 23.

REAL AD-Validation of a realistic screening approach for early Alzheimer's 
disease.

Leuzy A(1)(2)(3), Heeman F(1)(2), Bosch I(2)(3), Lenér F(4)(5), Dottori M(6), 
Quitz K(7), Moscoso A(1)(2), Kern S(2)(3), Zetterberg H(2)(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12), 
Blennow K(2)(8), Schöll M(1)(2)(3)(10).

Author information:
(1)Wallenberg Centre for Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(3)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Region Västra Götaland, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Götaland, Sweden.
(4)Centre for REDI Fyrbodal, Primary Health Care, Region Västra, Götaland, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Region Västra Götaland, Research, Education, Development & Innovation (REDI), 
Primary Health Care, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(7)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(8)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(9)UK Dementia Research Institute, UCL Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK.
(10)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(11)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(12)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
USA.

Early diagnosis is crucial to treatment success. This is especially relevant for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), with its protracted preclinical phase. Most health 
care systems do not have the resources to conduct large-scale AD screenings in 
middle-aged individuals in need of novel AD treatment options and early, 
accurate diagnosis. Recent developments in blood-based biomarkers and remote 
cognitive testing offer novel, cost-effective, and scalable methods to detect 
cognitive and biomarker changes that may indicate early AD. In research cohorts, 
promising results have been reported, but these modalities have not been 
validated in population-based settings. The validation of a realistic screening 
approach for early Alzheimer's disease (REAL AD) study aims to validate the 
diagnostic and prognostic performance of the combined use of blood-based 
biomarkers and remote cognitive testing as a screening approach for early AD 
employing an existing health care infrastructure (the Swedish Västra Götaland 
Region Primary Healthcare). REAL AD aims to provide a concrete, individualized 
diagnostic framework, which could significantly improve AD prognosis. 
HIGHLIGHTS: In Sweden, most Alzheimer's disease (AD) diagnoses are made in 
primary care, where access to AD biomarkers is almost non-existent. Most health 
care systems have limited resources for the screening of middle-aged adults for 
early evidence of AD pathology. Blood-based biomarkers and remote cognitive 
testing offer novel, cost-effective, and scalable methods for detecting 
cognitive and biomarker changes that may indicate early AD. The REAL AD study 
aims to validate the diagnostic and prognostic performance of blood-based 
biomarkers and remote cognitive testing as a screening approach for early AD in 
an existing primary health care infrastructure in the Västra Götaland Region in 
Sweden. Studies such as REAL AD will play a vital role in helping to move the 
field toward concrete implementation of biomarkers in AD diagnostic workup at 
all care levels, eventually providing more comprehensive treatments options for 
the large and growing AD population, and for those at risk.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14219
PMCID: PMC11567841
PMID: 39311530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: F.H., I.B., F.L., M.D., K.Q., and AM declare no 
conflicts of interest. A.L. serves as a consultant to Enigma Biomedical Group. 
S.K. has served on scientific advisory boards, as a speaker, and/or as 
consultant for Roche, Geras Solutions, Optoceutics, Biogen, and Bioarctic. H.Z. 
has served on scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, 
Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry 
Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, 
Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche; and is a 
co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). K.B. has served as a 
consultant and on advisory boards for Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, 
BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. Ltd, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono 
Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens Healthineers; has served on 
data‐monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, 
produced educational materials, and participated in educational programs for AC 
Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; and is a 
co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in this article. M.S. has 
served on advisory boards for Roche and Novo Nordisk; received speaker honoraria 
from Bioarctic, Eisai, Genentech, Novo Nordisk, and Roche; and receives research 
support (to the institution) from Alzpath, Bioarctic, Novo Nordisk, and Roche. 
He is a co‐founder of Centile Bioscience and serves as Associate Editor with 
Alzheimer's Research & Therapy. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


62. iScience. 2024 Aug 27;27(9):110828. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.110828.
eCollection  2024 Sep 20.

Identification of proteotoxic and proteoprotective bacteria that 
non-specifically affect proteins associated with neurodegenerative diseases.

Walker AC(1), Bhargava R(1), Bucher MJ(1), Argote YM(1), Brust AS(1), Czyż 
DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Cell Science, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL 32611, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2023 Oct 24:2023.10.24.563685. doi: 10.1101/2023.10.24.563685.

There are no cures for neurodegenerative protein conformational diseases (PCDs), 
such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's 
disease (HD). Emerging evidence suggests the gut microbiota plays a role in 
their pathogenesis, though the influences of specific bacteria on 
disease-associated proteins remain elusive. Here, we reveal the effects of 229 
human bacterial isolates on the aggregation and toxicity of Aβ1-42, α-synuclein, 
and polyglutamine tracts in Caenorhabditis elegans expressing these culprit 
proteins. Our findings demonstrate that bacterial effects on host protein 
aggregation are consistent across different culprit proteins, suggesting that 
microbes affect protein stability by modulating host proteostasis rather than 
selectively targeting disease-associated proteins. Furthermore, we found that 
feeding C. elegans proteoprotective Prevotella corporis activates the heat shock 
response, revealing an unexpected discovery of a microbial influence on host 
proteostasis. Insight into how individual bacteria affect PCD proteins could 
open new strategies for prevention and treatment by altering the abundance of 
microbes.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.110828
PMCID: PMC11414702
PMID: 39310761

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.


63. Cureus. 2024 Aug 22;16(8):e67506. doi: 10.7759/cureus.67506. eCollection 2024
 Aug.

A Comprehensive Review of the Role of Stem Cells in Neuroregeneration: Potential 
Therapies for Neurological Disorders.

Deokate N(1), Acharya S(1), Patil R(1), Shaikh SM(1), Karwa V(1).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Datta Meghe Institute of 
Higher Education & Research, Wardha, IND.

Stem cell research has emerged as a groundbreaking field with significant 
potential for advancing neuroregeneration and neurological disorder treatment. 
Neurological conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
stroke, and spinal cord injuries pose severe challenges due to their impact on 
quality of life and the limited efficacy of current treatments, which primarily 
focus on symptom management rather than addressing the underlying damage. 
Neuroregeneration, the process of repairing and restoring damaged neural 
tissues, is crucial for improving patient outcomes, given the central nervous 
system's limited intrinsic repair capacity. Stem cells offer a promising 
solution due to their ability to self-renew and differentiate into various 
neural cell types, providing opportunities for innovative therapies. This review 
provides a comprehensive analysis of the role of stem cells in 
neuroregeneration, exploring different types of stem cells, including embryonic 
stem cells (ESCs), induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), and adult stem cells, 
and their mechanisms of action in neural repair. It examines current clinical 
trials and translational research efforts, highlighting successes and ongoing 
challenges such as ethical considerations, immunogenicity, and technical 
limitations. The review also discusses future directions in stem cell research, 
including advancements in gene editing, tissue engineering, and personalized 
medicine. By addressing these aspects, the review aims to offer a thorough 
understanding of the potential and challenges of stem cell-based therapies, 
contributing to the development of effective treatments for neurological 
disorders and ultimately enhancing patient quality of life.

Copyright © 2024, Deokate et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.67506
PMCID: PMC11416137
PMID: 39310492

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


64. Heliyon. 2024 Sep 7;10(18):e37372. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e37372. 
eCollection 2024 Sep 30.

Ellagic acid improves the symptoms of early-onset Alzheimer's disease: 
Behavioral and physiological correlates.

Jha AB(1), Chaube UJ(2), Jha AB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Institute of Pharmacy, Nirma University, 
Ahmedabad, 382481, Gujarat, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Institute of Pharmacy, Nirma 
University, Ahmedabad, 382481, Gujarat, India.
(3)Infosys Ltd, Pune, 411057, Maharashtra, India.

Oryza sativa is a globally recognized staple food, rich in essential 
phyto-phenolic compounds such as γ-Oryzanol (OZ), Ferulic acid (FA), and Ellagic 
acid (EA). These phytochemicals are known for their potential to beneficially 
modulate molecular biochemistry. The present investigation aimed to evaluate the 
neuroprotective and cognitive enhancement effects of Oryza sativa 
phyto-phenolics in a model of early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) induced by 
Aβ (1-42) in animals. In-silico studies suggested that FA, OZ, and EA have 
target specificity for Aβ, with EA being further selected based on its potent 
in-vitro Aβ anti-aggregatory effects for exploring neurodegenerative conditions. 
The in-vivo experiments demonstrated that EA exerts therapeutic effects in 
Aβ-induced EOAD, modulating both biochemical and behavioral outcomes. EA 
treatment at two dose levels, EA70 and EA140 (70 μM and 140 μM, respectively, 
administered i.c.v.), significantly counteracted Aβ aggregation and modulated 
the Ca2⁺/Calpain/GSK-3β/CDK5 signaling pathways, exhibiting anti-tauopathy 
effects. Additionally, EA was shown to exert anti-inflammatory effects by 
preventing astroglial activation, modulating FAIM-L expression, and protecting 
against TNF-α-induced apoptotic signals. Moreover, the neuromodulatory effects 
of EA were attributed to the regulation of CREB levels, Dnm-1 expression, and 
synaptophysin levels, thereby enhancing LTP and synaptic plasticity. EA also 
induced beneficial cytological and behavioral changes, improving both long-term 
and short-term spatial memory as well as associative learning behavior in the 
animal model, which underscores its cognitive enhancement properties.

© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e37372
PMCID: PMC11416286
PMID: 39309887

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


65. Heliyon. 2024 Sep 6;10(18):e37533. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e37533. 
eCollection 2024 Sep 30.

A comprehensive review of advanced focused ultrasound (FUS) 
microbubbles-mediated treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Rouhi N(1), Chakeri Z(2), Ghorbani Nejad B(3), Rahimzadegan M(4), Rafi Khezri 
M(5), Kamali H(6)(7), Nosrati R(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Mississippi Center for Heart 
Research, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, MS, 39216, USA.
(2)Cardiothoracic Imaging Section, Department of Radiology, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Department of Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kerman University of Medical 
Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(4)Functional Neurosurgery Research Center, Shohada Tajrish Comprehensive 
Neurosurgical Center of Excellence, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Urmia University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(6)Targeted Drug Delivery Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(8)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, School of Medicine, Guilan University 
of Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive neurodegeneration, 
memory loss, and cognitive impairment leading to dementia and death. The 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) prevents the delivery of drugs into the brain, which 
can limit their therapeutic potential in the treatment of AD. Therefore, there 
is a need to develop new approaches to bypass the BBB for appropriate treatment 
of AD. Recently, focused ultrasound (FUS) has been shown to disrupt the BBB, 
allowing therapeutic agents to penetrate the brain. In addition, microbubbles 
(MBs) as lipophilic carriers can penetrate across the BBB and deliver the active 
drug into the brain tissue. Therefore, combined with FUS, the drug-encapsulated 
MBs can pass through the ultrasound-disrupted zone of the BBB and diffuse into 
the brain tissue. This review provides clear and concise statements on the 
recent advances of the various FUS-mediated MBs-based carriers developed for 
delivering AD-related drugs. In addition, the sonogenetics-based FUS/MBs 
approaches for the treatment of AD are highlighted. The future perspectives and 
challenges of ultrasound-based MBs drug delivery in AD are then discussed.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e37533
PMCID: PMC11416559
PMID: 39309880

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


66. Heliyon. 2024 Sep 10;10(18):e37702. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e37702. 
eCollection 2024 Sep 30.

Interactions of memantine and rivastigmine with graphene oxide nanocarrier and 
beta-amyloid protein using molecular docking and in-silico methods.

Davoudi F(1)(2), Shadjou N(1), Darroudi M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nanotechnology, Faculty of Chemistry, Urmia University, Urmia, 
Iran.
(2)Institute of Nanotechnology, Urmia University, Urmia, Iran.
(3)Pharmaceutical Analysis Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical 
Science, Tabriz, Iran.

Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the accumulation of beta-amyloid plaques 
and neurofibrillary tangles. Effective therapeutic strategies involve inhibiting 
the formation of beta-amyloid aggregates and destabilizing existing ones. A 
significant challenge in current treatments is the inability of therapeutic 
agents to cross the blood-brain barrier, a limitation addressed by employing 
drug nanocarriers. This study investigates the interactions between memantine, 
rivastigmine, beta-amyloid structures, and graphene oxide nanocarriers using 
molecular docking and in silico methods. The goal is to enhance drug development 
through cost-effective and efficient computational techniques. Results indicate 
that the binding energies for memantine-beta-amyloid and 
rivastigmine-beta-amyloid complexes are -9.03 kcal/mol and -7.81 kcal/mol, 
respectively, suggesting superior stability for the memantine-beta-amyloid 
complex. The electrostatic energies are -1.91 kcal/mol for memantine and 
-0.81 kcal/mol for rivastigmine, further supporting the greater stability of the 
memantine complex. Additionally, memantine's interaction with graphene oxide 
results in more negative adsorption energy (-92.47 kJ/mol) compared to 
rivastigmine (-86.36 kJ/mol), indicating a stronger binding affinity. The charge 
transfer (Q) values are -0.41 kJ/mol for memantine and -0.33 kJ/mol for 
rivastigmine. The negative enthalpy (ΔH) of -85.71 kJ/mol and Gibbs free energy 
(ΔG) of -41.52 kJ/mol for the memantine-graphene oxide interaction suggest a 
spontaneous process. Both memantine and rivastigmine display similar electronic 
properties, but memantine shows a more effective interaction with graphene 
oxide, likely due to its amine functional group and spatial configuration. The 
adsorption energy analysis confirms that memantine forms a more stable complex 
with graphene oxide than rivastigmine.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e37702
PMCID: PMC11416293
PMID: 39309765

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


67. Lancet Reg Health West Pac. 2024 Sep 12;51:101198. doi: 
10.1016/j.lanwpc.2024.101198. eCollection 2024 Oct.

Independent and joint associations of cardiometabolic multimorbidity and 
depression on cognitive function: findings from multi-regional cohorts and 
generalisation from community to clinic.

Zhao X(1), Xu X(1)(2), Yan Y(1), Lipnicki DM(3), Pang T(1), Crawford JD(3), Chen 
C(4)(5), Cheng CY(6), Venketasubramanian N(7), Chong E(4), Blay SL(8), 
Lima-Costa MF(9), Castro-Costa E(10), Lipton RB(11)(12), Katz MJ(11), Ritchie 
K(13)(14), Scarmeas N(15)(16), Yannakoulia M(17), Kosmidis MH(18), Gureje O(19), 
Ojagbemi A(19), Bello T(19), Hendrie HC(20), Gao S(21)(22), Guerra RO(23), Auais 
M(24), Gomez JF(25), Rolandi E(26)(27), Davin A(26), Rossi M(26), Riedel-Heller 
SG(28), Löbner M(28), Roehr S(28)(29)(30), Ganguli M(31), Jacobsen EP(32), Chang 
CH(33), Aiello AE(34), Ho R(35)(36)(37), Sanchez-Juan P(38), Valentí-Soler 
M(38), Ser TD(38), Lobo A(39)(40)(41), De-la-Cámara C(39)(40)(41), Lobo E(42), 
Sachdev PS(3), Xu X(1)(4); for Cohort Studies of Memory in an International 
Consortium (COSMIC).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The Second Affiliated Hospital of School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Australia.
(3)Centre for Healthy Brain Ageing, Discipline of Psychiatry & Mental Health, 
School of Clinical Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Memory, Ageing, and Cognition Centre (MACC), Department of Pharmacology, Yong 
Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(5)National University Health System, NUHS, Singapore.
(6)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore.
(7)Raffles Neuroscience Centre, Raffles Hospital, Singapore.
(8)Center for Studies in Public Health and Aging, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(9)Instituto Rene' Rachou, Fundac¸ão Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(10)Department of Psychiatry- Federal University of Sao Paulo- UNIFESP, Sao 
Paulo, Brazil.
(11)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, 
USA.
(12)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.
(13)Institut for Neurosciences of Montpellier, University Montpellier, National 
Institute for Health and Medical Research, Montpellier, France.
(14)Institut du Cerveau Trocadéro, Paris, France.
(15)First Department of Neurology, Aiginition Hospital, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(16)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, USA.
(17)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Harokopio University, Athens, Greece.
(18)Lab of Neuropsychology & Behavioral Neuroscience, School of Psychology, 
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(19)World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Research and Training in 
Mental Health, Neuroscience, and Substance Abuse, Department of Psychiatry, 
College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(20)Department of Psychiatry and Indiana Alzheimer Disease Center Indiana School 
of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA.
(21)Indiana Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Indianapolis.
(22)Department of Biostatistics and Health Data Science, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA.
(23)Department of Physical Therapy, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, 
Brazil.
(24)School of Rehabilitation Therapy, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
(25)Research Group on Geriatrics and Gerontology. Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Universidad de Caldas, Manizales, Colombia.
(26)Golgi Cenci Foundation, Abbiategrasso, Italy.
(27)Department of Brain and Behavioural Sciences, University of Pavia, Pavia, 
Italy.
(28)Institute of Social Medicine, Occupational Health and Public Health, Medical 
Faculty, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(29)School of Psychology, Manawatu Campus, Massey University, Palmerston North, 
New Zealand.
(30)Global Brain Health Institute, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(31)Departments of Psychiatry, Neurology, and Epidemiology, School of Medicine 
and School of Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, USA.
(32)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, USA.
(33)Departments of Medicine and Bioostatistics, School of Medicine and School of 
Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, USA.
(34)Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center, Department of Epidemiology, Mailman 
School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, USA.
(35)Department of Psychological Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, 
National University of Singapore, Singapore.
(36)Department of Psychological Medicine, National University Hospital, 
Singapore.
(37)Institute of Health Innovation and Technology (iHealthtech), National 
University of Singapore, Singapore.
(38)Alzheimer's Centre Reina Sofia-CIEN Foundation-ISCIII, 28031, Madrid, Spain.
(39)Department of Medicine and Psychiatry, Universidad de Zaragoza, Zaragoza, 
Spain.
(40)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Aragón, Zaragoza, Spain.
(41)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental, Madrid, Spain.
(42)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Universidad de 
Zaragoza, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Aragón (IIS Aragón), Zaragoza 
CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) and depression are often 
co-occurring in older adults and associated with neurodegenerative outcomes. The 
present study aimed to estimate the independent and joint associations of CMM 
and depression on cognitive function in multi-regional cohorts, and to validate 
the generalizability of the findings in additional settings, including clinical.
METHODS: Data harmonization was performed across 14 longitudinal cohort studies 
within the Cohort Studies of Memory in an International Consortium (COSMIC) 
group, spanning North America, South America, Europe, Africa, Asia, and 
Australia. Three external validation studies with distinct settings were 
employed for generalization. Participants were eligible for inclusion if they 
had data for CMM and were free of dementia at baseline. Baseline CMM was defined 
as: 1) CMM 5, ≥2 among hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, stroke, and heart 
disease and 2) CMM 3 (aligned with previous studies), ≥2 among diabetes, stroke, 
and heart disease. Baseline depression was primarily characterized by binary 
classification of depressive symptom measurements, employing the Geriatric 
Depression Scale and the Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression scale. 
Global cognition was standardized as z-scores through harmonizing multiple 
cognitive measures. Longitudinal cognition was calculated as changes in global 
cognitive z-scores. A pooled individual participant data (IPD) analysis was 
utilized to estimate the independent and joint associations of CMM and 
depression on cognitive outcomes in COSMIC studies, both cross-sectionally and 
longitudinally. Repeated analyses were performed in three external validation 
studies.
FINDINGS: Of the 32,931 older adults in the 14 COSMIC cohorts, we included 
30,382 participants with complete data on baseline CMM, depression, and 
cognitive assessments for cross-sectional analyses. Among them, 22,599 who had 
at least 1 follow-up cognitive assessment were included in the longitudinal 
analyses. The three external studies for validation had 1964 participants from 3 
multi-ethnic Asian older adult cohorts in different settings (community-based, 
memory clinic, and post-stroke study). In COSMIC studies, each of CMM and 
depression was independently associated with cross-sectional and longitudinal 
cognitive function, without significant interactions between them (Ps > 0.05). 
Participants with both CMM and depression had lower cross-sectional cognitive 
performance (e.g. β = -0.207, 95% CI = (-0.255, -0.159) for CMM5 (+)/depression 
(+)) and a faster rate of cognitive decline (e.g. β = -0.040, 95% CI = 
(-0.047, -0.034) for CMM5 (+)/depression (+)), compared with those without 
either condition. These associations remained consistent after additional 
adjustment for APOE genotype and were robust in two-step random-effects IPD 
analyses. The findings regarding the joint association of CMM and depression on 
cognitive function were reproduced in the three external validation studies.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings highlighted the importance of investigating 
age-related co-morbidities in a multi-dimensional perspective. Targeting both 
cardiometabolic and psychological conditions to prevent cognitive decline could 
enhance effectiveness.
FUNDING: Natural Science Foundation of China and National Institute on 
Aging/National Institutes of Health.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.lanwpc.2024.101198
PMCID: PMC11416683
PMID: 39308753

Conflict of interest statement: CC declares funding to their institution from 
the National Medical Research Council of Singapore. RBL declares receiving 
payments for royalties or licenses from Wolff's Headache (7th and 8th Editions), 
Oxford University Press (2009), Wiley, and Inform. RBL has received consulting 
fees, honoraria for lectures, support for attending meetings and/or travel, or 
served on data safety monitoring boards or advisory boards for AbbVie 
(Allergan), the American Academy of Neurology, the American Headache Society, 
Amgen, Avanir, Axon, Axsome, Biohaven, Biovision, Boston Scientific, Dr. Reddy's 
(Promius), Electrocore, Eli Lilly, eNeura Therapeutics, Equinox, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Grifols, Lundbeck (Alder), Manistee, Merck, Pernix, Pfizer, 
Satsuma, Supernus, Teva, Trigemina, Vector, and Vedanta. RBL's institution has 
received funding from the FDA, the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the 
National Institute on Aging (NIA). RBL holds stock in Axon, Biohaven Holdings, 
CoolTech, and Manistee. MJK declares funding to their institution from the NIH 
(grant numbers NIA P01 AG03949). NS declares participation as a member of the 
data safety monitoring board (uncompensated) for the public-private funded Phase 
II study PRimus AD in Germany and reports that their institution has received 
funding from Novo Nordisk, unrelated to the submitted work. Both HCH and SG 
declare funding to their institution from the NIH (grant numbers R01AG009956, 
P30AG072976, and K07AG076659). MG declares funding to their institution from the 
NIA (grant number R37AG023651). C–CHC declares that their institution received 
funding from the NIH. AL, CDC and EL declare that their institution received 
funding from the Fondo de Investigación Sanitaria, Instituto de Salud Carlos 
III, Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, Madrid, Spain (grant 
numbers 94/1562, 97/1321E, 98/0103, 01/0255, 03/0815, 06/0617, G03/128, 
12/02254, 16/00896, 19/01874), as well as from the European Regional Development 
Fund (FEDER) of the European Union and the Government of Aragón (grant number 
B15_17R). CDC also declares receiving support for attending scientific meetings 
from Almirall, Lilly, Pfizer, Esteve, AstraZeneca, Novartis, Lundbeck, Casen 
Recordati, Janssen, and Rovi. PSS declares receiving payments for advisory board 
meetings for Biogen Australia and Roche Australia, honoraria for lectures from 
Alkem Labs; and funding to their institution from the National Health and 
Medical Research Council of Australia (grant number APP1169489). Both PSS and DL 
declare funding to their institution from the NIH (grant number 
1RF1AG057531–01). Both PSS and JDC declare funding to their institution from the 
NIH (grant number 2R01AG057531-02A1). DL holds editor roles in the Frontiers 
journals. PSS holds leadership roles in the VASCOG Society (Executive Committee; 
unpaid) and the World Psychiatric Association (Planning Committee; unpaid). All 
other authors declare no competing interests.


68. Ann Biostat Biom Appl. 2024;6(1):000630. doi: 10.33552/abba.2024.06.000630.
Epub  2024 Jun 26.

Differences in the Distribution of Aβ in the Brain between U.S. Veterans and 
Adults aged 62+ and suffering from Alzheimer's Disease.

Kolpakov S(1), Yashkin A(1), Akushevich I(1).

Author information:
(1)Social Science Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, NC 27710.

BACKGROUND: Elevated concentration of amyloids in the cerebrum results in 
elevated risks for cerebral hemorrhage and early AD onset following early 
depression/dementia onset. In this study, we compare patterns of amyloid 
depositions across eight regions of interest of the human brain between U.S. 
Veterans and non-Veterans adults aged 62+.
DATA: Data were taken from the ADNI and DoD-ADNI studies. A pseudo-randomization 
algorithm was applied to achieve comparability, reduce bias due to age 
mismatching, and account for non-treatment-related differences between 
subsamples extracted from DoD-ADNI and ADNI databases. The pool of participants 
included data about age, race, apolipoprotein ε4 allele (APOE) status, modified 
Hachinski Ischemic Score, education level, and geriatric depression score, which 
were used to build a propensity score.
PREDICTORS AND OUTCOMES: Aβ concentration, resulting from the PET image 
analysis, in key brain regions of interest, and two categorical variables 
describing the 0.79 and 1.11 cutoffs were used as outcomes, while the Veteran 
and AD status were used as predictors.
METHODS: To balance subsamples, we applied a pseudo-randomization algorithm, 
eliminating the observed sources of heterogeneity. We used a generalized linear 
model for continuous variables and the logistic regression model for binary 
variables.
FINDINGS: The pattern of the Aβ distribution in Veteran's brains was found to be 
different from the classic AD pattern. The amyloid depositions following Veteran 
status were concentrated in cerebellar gray matter and the cerebellum in 
general. In contrast, the AD pattern shows more Aβ depositions in the frontal 
lobe, cingulate cortex, parietal, and temporal lobes, along with higher 
whole-cerebrum concentration of amyloids. Since Florbetapir PET cannot 
distinguish between senile plaques and depositions in blood vessels, the 
elevated concentration of amyloids in a cerebellum for participants with the 
Veteran status may suppose elevated risks for cerebral hemorrhage and early AD 
onset following early depression/dementia onset.

DOI: 10.33552/abba.2024.06.000630
PMCID: PMC11416854
PMID: 39308696

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interests: The authors declare that 
there is no conflict of interest. Financial interests: The authors declare they 
have no financial interests.


69. BJPsych Open. 2024 Sep 23;10(5):e160. doi: 10.1192/bjo.2024.747.

Investigating patient eligibility for anti-amyloid monoclonal antibody treatment 
of Alzheimer's disease: real-world data from an Austrian psychiatric memory 
clinic population.

Defrancesco M(1), Gizewski ER(2), Mangesius S(2), Galijasevic M(2), Virgolini 
I(3), Kroiss A(3), Marksteiner J(4), Jehle J(1), Doganyigit B(1), Hofer A(1).

Author information:
(1)University Clinic for Psychiatry I, Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy, 
Psychosomatics and Medical Psychology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Austria.
(2)Department of Radiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Austria; and 
Neuroimaging Core Facility, Medical University of Innsbruck, Austria.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Medical University of Innsbruck, Austria.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy A, State Hospital of Hall in 
Tirol, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Pharmacological treatment options for patients with dementia owing 
to Alzheimer's disease are limited to symptomatic therapy. Recently, the US Food 
and Drug Administration approved the monoclonal antibody lecanemab for the 
treatment of amyloid-positive patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 
early Alzheimer´s dementia. European approval is expected in 2024. Data on the 
applicability and eligibility for treatment with anti-amyloid monoclonal 
antibodies outside of a study population are lacking.
AIMS: This study examined eligibility criteria for lecanemab in a real-world 
memory clinic population between 1 January 2022 and 31 July 2023.
METHOD: We conducted a retrospective, single-centre study applying the clinical 
trial eligibility criteria for lecanemab to out-patients of a specialised 
psychiatric memory clinic. Eligibility for anti-amyloid treatment was assessed 
following the phase 3 inclusion and exclusion criteria and the published 
recommendations for lecanemab.
RESULTS: The study population consisted of 587 out-patients. Two-thirds were 
diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (probable or possible Alzheimer's disease 
dementia in 43.6% of cases, n = 256) or MCI (23%, n = 135), and 33.4% (n = 196) 
were diagnosed with dementia or neurocognitive disorder owing to another 
aetiology. Applying all lecanemab eligibility criteria, 11 (4.3%) patients with 
dementia and two (1.5%) patients with MCI would have been eligible for treatment 
with this compound, whereas 13 dementia (5.1%) and 14 (10.4%) MCI patients met 
clinical inclusion criteria, but had no available amyloid status.
CONCLUSIONS: Even in a memory clinic with a good infrastructure and sufficient 
facilities for dementia diagnostics, most patients do not meet the eligibility 
criteria for treatment with lecanemab.

DOI: 10.1192/bjo.2024.747
PMCID: PMC11457211
PMID: 39308280

Conflict of interest statement: None.


70. Eur J Neurosci. 2024 Oct;60(8):6091-6106. doi: 10.1111/ejn.16543. Epub 2024
Sep  22.

Progression of hippocampal subfield atrophy and asymmetry in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Xu J(1), Tan S(1), Wen J(1), Zhang M(1); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative(1); Xu X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine. No.88 Jiefang Road, Hangzhou, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects the hippocampus during its progression, but the 
specific observable changes of hippocampal subfields during disease progression 
remain poorly understood. In this study, we employed an event-based model (EBM) 
to determine the sequence of occurrence of hippocampal subfield atrophy in mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD cohorts. Subjects (207) were included: 86 MCI, 
53 AD, and 68 healthy controls from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative (ADNI). Participants underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) scans to analyse the hippocampal subfields. We assigned each patient to a 
specific EBM stage, based on the number of their abnormal subfields. A 
combination of 2-year follow-up MRI scans were applied to demonstrate the 
longitudinal consistency and utility of the model's staging system. The model 
estimated that the earliest atrophy occurs in the hippocampal fissure, then 
spreading to other subregions in both MCI and AD. We identified a marked 
divergence between the sequences of left and right hippocampal subfields 
atrophy, so inter-hemispheric asymmetry pattern was further analysed. The 
sequence of asymmetry index (AI) increases beginning in the molecular and 
granule cell layers of the dentate gyrus (GC-ML-DG), cornus ammonis (CA) 4, and 
the molecular layer (ML). Longitudinal analysis confirms the efficacy of the 
model. In addition, the model stages were significantly correlated with 
patients' memory scores (p < .05). Collectively, we used a data-driven method to 
provide new insight into AD hippocampal progression. The present model could aid 
in understanding of the disease stages, as well as tracking memory decline.

© 2024 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.16543
PMID: 39308012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2024 Sep;49(17):4672-4686. doi: 
10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20240426.301.

[Chemical components and in vitro anti-aging activity of Yangxue Qingnao Wan 
based on UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang JQ(1), Fu XM(1), Zhuo Y(1), Yang JN(2), Hao N(1), Wang WJ(2), Hu YH(2), 
Fang JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Science and Technology Innovation Center of Guangzhou University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine Guangzhou 510405, China.
(2)Tasly Pharmaceutical Group Co., Ltd. Tianjin 300410, China National Key 
Laboratory of Chinese Medicine Modernization Tianjin 300193, China.

The main chemical components of Yangxue Qingnao Wan(YXQNW) were analyzed and 
identified by ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole-time-of-flight 
mass spectrometry(UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS). According to the mass spectrometry 
information, Mass Hunter 10.0 analysis software was used to compare the 
collected quasi-molecular ion peaks and secondary fragment ions with literature 
and reference substances. A total of 131 compounds were identified from YXQNW, 
including 11 phenylpropanoids, 11 flavonoids, 42 nitrogen-containing compounds, 
12 terpenoids, 17 phthalides, 23 quinones, and 15 other compounds. The 
anti-aging activity of YXQNW and six compounds from YXQNW, including rosmarinic 
acid, gallic acid, rutin, umbelliferone, hyperoside, and vanillic acid, were 
evaluated by D-galactose(D-gal)-induced HT22 cell senescence model. The effects 
of the compounds on HT22 cell damage and individual cell proliferation ability 
were observed from overall and individual perspectives by the Beyo Click~(TM) 
EdU-555 cell proliferation kit, and apoptosis was detected by the Annexin 
V-FITC/PI double staining apoptosis detection kit. Finally, the anti-aging 
effect of the compounds was tested by a cell senescence β-galactosidase staining 
kit. This study provides a more comprehensive analysis of the chemical 
components of YXQNW and evaluates its anti-aging effect, which will provide a 
scientific basis for basic research on the efficacy of YXQNW for the treatment 
of various neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease(AD), headache, and 
memory loss.

DOI: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20240426.301
PMID: 39307805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2024 Sep;49(17):4650-4657. doi: 
10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20240507.402.

[Research progress in osthole for prevention and treatment of central nervous 
system diseases].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Q(1), Zhong GC(1), Li ST(1), Wang XJ(1), Zheng JY(1), Zhang ZR(1), Luo 
BJ(1), Li WR(1), Wang Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Science and Technology Innovation Center, Guangzhou University of Chinese 
Medicine Guangzhou 510405, China.

Central nervous system(CNS) disorders can significantly impact patients' daily 
lives, impairing their ability to work and imposing a substantial financial 
burden on their families. In recent years, the incidence of CNS diseases has 
shown a significant increase with the continuous improvement of the quality of 
life and the aging problem. Therefore, the search for new preventive and 
curative drugs has been a research hotspot for this group of diseases. 
Osthole(OST), isolated from Umbelliferae such as Cnidium monnieri, Angelica 
sinensis, and Heracleum hemsleyanum, possesses a variety of pharmacological 
effects such as neuroprotective, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and 
antithrombotic effects. There is increasing evidence that OST has demonstrated 
significant preventive and curative effects in various CNS disease models. This 
paper systematically reviewed the research progress of OST in preventing and 
treating CNS diseases by reviewing domestic and international literature to 
provide more in-depth theoretical support for the future clinical application of 
OST in the prevention and treatment of CNS diseases.

DOI: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20240507.402
PMID: 39307803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Trends Immunol. 2024 Oct;45(10):799-813. doi: 10.1016/j.it.2024.08.004. Epub 
2024 Sep 21.

Novel human iPSC models of neuroinflammation in neurodegenerative disease and 
regenerative medicine.

Summers RA(1), Fagiani F(2), Rowitch DH(3), Absinta M(2), Reich DS(4).

Author information:
(1)Cambridge Stem Cell Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK; 
Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological 
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(2)Translational Neuropathology Unit, Institute of Experimental Neurology, 
Division of Neuroscience, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(3)Cambridge Stem Cell Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(4)Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological 
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. 
Electronic address: daniel.reich@nih.gov.

The importance of neuroinflammation in neurodegenerative diseases is becoming 
increasingly evident, and, in parallel, human induced pluripotent stem cell 
(hiPSC) models of physiology and pathology are emerging. Here, we review new 
advancements in the differentiation of hiPSCs into glial, neural, and 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) cell types, and the integration of these cells into 
complex organoids and chimeras. These advancements are relevant for modeling 
neuroinflammation in the context of prevalent neurodegenerative disorders, such 
as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and multiple sclerosis 
(MS). With awareness of current limitations, recent progress in the development 
and application of various hiPSC-derived models shows potential for aiding the 
identification of candidate therapeutic targets and immunotherapy approaches.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.it.2024.08.004
PMCID: PMC11471369
PMID: 39307583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests M.A. has received 
consultancy and/or speaker honoraria from Abata Therapeutics, Biogen, Sanofi, 
Immunic Therapeutics, and GSK. D.S.R. has received research funding from Abata 
Therapeutics and Sanofi. The other authors have nothing to disclose.


74. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2024 Sep;39(9):e6152. doi: 10.1002/gps.6152.

Survival After the Diagnosis of Mild-to-Moderate Alzheimer's Disease Dementia: A 
15-Year National Cohort Study in Taiwan.

Sun Y(1)(2), Liu CC(3), Li CY(4)(5)(6), Chiu MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, En Chu Kong Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Neurology, National Taiwan University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Health Care Management, National Taipei University of Nursing 
and Health Sciences, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Public Health, College of Public Health, China Medical 
University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Healthcare Administration, College of Medical and Health 
Science, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVES: Pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions are mostly 
designed for patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. Long-term 
case management and planning for the remainder of life with disability require 
an estimation of the survival duration.
METHODS: This cohort study utilized data from the National Health Insurance 
Research Database, Taiwan, to identify incident cases of mild-to-moderate AD 
dementia diagnosed from 2000 to 2002, followed through December 31, 2017. A 
multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression model was constructed to 
compare the independent effects of age, sex, and comorbidities on all-cause 
mortality risk. Cumulative survival rates and survival times were estimated.
RESULTS: A total of 5258 incident cases were identified, all treated with 
cholinesterase inhibitors after diagnosis confirmation by an expert committee. 
During the 15-year follow-up period, 4331 deaths occurred. The 1-, 3-, 5-, 10-, 
and 15-year cumulative survival rates were 95, 92, 67, 37, and 18, respectively. 
The median (95% CI) survival time after diagnosis was 7.69 (7.46-7.90) years 
overall, 6.37 (6.06-6.65) years in men, and 8.81 (8.49-9.12) years in women. 
After stratification by age and number of comorbidities, the median survival 
time ranged from 13.72 (ages 40-64) to 5.29 (ages ≥ 80) years among those 
without comorbidities. For those with ≥ 3 comorbidities, the median survival 
times decreased to 6.43 for individuals diagnosed at ages 40-64 and to 
2.98 years for those diagnosed at age 80 or older.
CONCLUSIONS: This nationwide, large, long-term cohort study provided survival 
rates and durations from diagnosis to death, varying by sex, age group, and 
presence/number of comorbidities. This information can serve as a foundation for 
further cost-effectiveness studies on new treatments, and may aid clinicians, 
patients, and families in shared decision-making and advance personalized care 
planning for early dementia cases.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.6152
PMID: 39307572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Free Radic Biol Med. 2024 Nov 1;224:685-706. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2024.09.021. Epub 2024 Sep 21.

The effect of tau K677 lactylation on ferritinophagy and ferroptosis in 
Alzheimer's disease.

An X(1), He J(2), Xie P(3), Li C(4), Xia M(3), Guo D(3), Bi B(5), Wu G(5), Xu 
J(6), Yu W(7), Ren Z(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Second People's Hospital of Guizhou 
Province, Guiyang, 550004, PR China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Second People's Hospital of Guizhou 
Province, Guiyang, 550004, PR China; Guizhou Provincial Center for Clinical 
Laboratory, Guiyang, 550002, PR China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, 
550001, Guizhou, PR China.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Guizhou University, Guiyang, 550025, PR China.
(5)Psychosomatic Department, The Second People's Hospital of Guizhou Province, 
Guiyang, 550004, PR China.
(6)Center for Tissue Engineering and Stem Cell Research, Guizhou Medical 
University, Guian New Area, 561113, PR China; Department of Pharmacology, School 
of Basic Medicine, Guizhou Medical University, Guian New Area, 561113, PR China. 
Electronic address: 363912577@qq.com.
(7)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, 
550001, Guizhou, PR China; Key Laboratory of Human Brain Bank for Functions and 
Diseases of Department of Education of Guizhou Province, Guizhou Medical 
University, Guiyang, 550025, Guizhou, PR China. Electronic address: 
wenfengyu2013@126.com.
(8)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Second People's Hospital of Guizhou 
Province, Guiyang, 550004, PR China. Electronic address: 2639092792@qq.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by cognitive decline and the 
accumulation of amyloid-beta plaques and hyperphosphorylated tau protein. The 
role of tau lactylation at the K677 site in AD progression is not well 
understood. This study explores how tau K677 lactylation affects ferritinophagy, 
ferroptosis, and their functions in an AD mouse model. Results show that 
mutating the K677 site to R reduces tau lactylation and inhibits ferroptosis by 
regulating iron metabolism factors like NCOA4 and FTH1.Tau-mutant mice showed 
improved memory and learning skills compared to wild-type mice. The mutation 
also reduced neuronal damage and was associated with decreased tau lactylation 
at the K677 site, regardless of phosphorylated tau levels. Gene set enrichment 
analysis showed that lactylation at this site was linked to the MAPK pathway, 
which was important for ferritinophagy in AD mice. In summary, our research 
indicates that the K677 mutation in tau protein may protect against AD by 
influencing ferritinophagy and ferroptosis through MAPK signaling pathways. 
Understanding these modifications in tau could lead to new treatments for AD.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2024.09.021
PMID: 39307193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We declare 
that we have no financial and personal relationships with other people or 
organizations that can inappropriately influence our work, there is no 
professional or other personal interest of any nature or kind in any product, 
service and/or company that could be construed as influencing the position 
presented in, or the review of, the manuscript entitled.


76. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2024 Dec;25(12):105273. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2024.105273.
 Epub 2024 Sep 19.

Prescription of Nonpharmacologic Interventions in Memory Clinics: Data from the 
Clinical Pathway for Alzheimer's Disease in China (CPAD) Study.

Cai X(1), Zhang Y(2), Shi C(3), Wong GHY(2), Luo H(2), Wang H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Social Sciences & Research Centre for Gerontology and 
Family Studies, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Department of Social Work and Social Administration, The University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(3)School of Graduate Studies & Institute of Policy Studies, Lingnan University, 
Hong Kong, China.
(4)Dementia Care & Research Center, Beijing Dementia Key Lab, Peking University 
Institute of Mental Health (Sixth Hospital), Beijing, China. Electronic address: 
huali_wang@bjmu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVES: Nonpharmacologic interventions are recommended to improve outcomes 
in dementia. Little is known about their prescription in practice, especially in 
non-Western populations. We investigated individual- and institution-level 
characteristics associated with nonpharmacologic interventions prescription in 
China.
DESIGN: A multicenter observational study.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: This study used cross-sectional data from 889 
community-dwelling outpatients living with dementia aged ≥45 years from a 
multicenter registry of 28 memory clinics in China.
METHODS: Prescription records of nonpharmacologic interventions, carer and 
clinic characteristics, and reasons for declining interventions were collected. 
Multilevel logistic regression was used to identify factors associated with the 
prescription.
RESULTS: Nonpharmacologic interventions were prescribed in 323 people (36.3%) 
with mild cognitive impairment or dementia. Cognitive activities and carer 
training/support were the most prescribed interventions. Multilevel logistic 
regression showed that 73% of the variance in prescription was attributed to 
institutional characteristics of the memory clinic. Greater caregiving gain 
[odds ratio (OR), 1.05; 95% CI, 1.02-1.09], lower burden (OR, 0.97; 95% CI, 
0.95-1.00), worse carer-perceived dyad relationship (OR, 0.83; 95% CI, 
0.70-0.99), and family history of dementia (OR, 2.08; 95% CI, 1.19-3.65) were 
individual-level factors associated with prescription. Among 440 people 
considered having a need but received no prescription, declined by user/carer 
was the main reason for not prescribing (70.7%). Skepticism about effectiveness 
by physicians/carers and carers being unable or lacking resources to use the 
interventions were the common reasons given.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: A relatively low prescription rate of 
nonpharmacologic interventions is related to both individual- and 
institution-level factors. Carer support and education, instrumental support, 
and prescription guidelines across specialties and sites are possible strategies 
to improve access to nonpharmacologic interventions in dementia care.

Copyright © 2024 Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medical Association. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2024.105273
PMID: 39307174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures The authors declare no conflicts of 
interest.


77. Bioorg Med Chem. 2024 Nov 1;113:117926. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2024.117926. Epub 
2024 Sep 13.

Current pharmacophore based approaches for the development of new 
anti-Alzheimer's agents.

Sharma P(1), Sharma S(2), Yadav Y(2), Shukla P(3), Sagar R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Birla Institute of Technology and Sciences, Pilani, 
Rajasthan 333031, India.
(2)Glycochemistry Laboratory, School of Physical Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru 
University, New Delhi 110067, India.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Birla Institute of Technology and Sciences, Pilani, 
Rajasthan 333031, India. Electronic address: shukla_p@pilani.bits-pilani.ac.in.
(4)Glycochemistry Laboratory, School of Physical Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru 
University, New Delhi 110067, India. Electronic address: ram.sagar@jnu.ac.in.

Amyloid beta peptide (Aβ) and hyperphosphorylated neuronal tau proteins 
accumulate in neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease (AD), a chronic 
neurodegenerative illness. Chronic inflammation in the brain, which promotes 
disease progression, is another feature of the Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. 
Approximately 60-70 % of dementia cases are caused by AD. The development of 
effective therapies for the treatment of AD is urgently needed given the 
severity of the condition and its rapidly rising prevalence. Cholinesterase 
inhibitors, beta-amyloid (A-beta), tau inhibitors, and many other medications 
are currently used as preventive medicine for AD. These medications can 
temporarily suppress dementia symptoms but cannot halt or reverse the disease's 
progression. Many international pharmaceutical companies have tried numerous 
times to develop an amyloid clearing medication based on the amyloid hypothesis, 
but without success. Therefore, the amyloid theory may not be entirely 
plausible. This review mainly covers the recent and important reported 
pharmacophores as the starting point to discuss already known targets like tau, 
butyrylcholinesterase, amyloid beta, and acetylcholinesterase and covers the 
literature between years 2019-2024.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2024.117926
PMID: 39306973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


78. ACS Nano. 2024 Oct 1;18(39):26568-26584. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.4c03679. Epub
2024  Sep 22.

Simultaneous Protein and RNA Analysis in Single Extracellular Vesicles, 
Including Viruses.

Troyer Z(1), Gololobova O(1)(2), Koppula A(3), Liao Z(1), Horns F(4), Elowitz 
MB(4), Tosar JP(5)(6), Batish M(3), Witwer KW(1)(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, United States.
(2)EV Core Facility "EXCEL", Institute for Basic Biomedical Sciences, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, United States.
(3)Department of Medical and Molecular Sciences, and Department of Biological 
Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 19716, United States.
(4)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Division of Biology and Biological 
Engineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, 
United States.
(5)Functional Genomics Laboratory, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Montevideo 
11400, Uruguay.
(6)School of Science, Universidad de la República, Montevideo 11400, Uruguay.
(7)The Richman Family Precision Medicine Center of Excellence in Alzheimer's 
Disease, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, 
United States.

The individual detection of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) virions and 
resolution from extracellular vesicles (EVs) during analysis is a difficult 
challenge. Infectious enveloped virions and nonviral EVs are released 
simultaneously by HIV-infected host cells, in addition to hybrid viral EVs 
containing combinations of HIV and host components but lacking replicative 
ability. Complicating the issue, EVs and enveloped virions are both delimited by 
a lipid bilayer and share similar size and density. The feature that 
distinguishes infectious virions from host and hybrid EVs is the HIV genomic RNA 
(gRNA), which allows the virus to replicate. Single-particle analysis 
techniques, which provide snapshots of single biological nanoparticles, could 
resolve infectious virions from EVs. However, current single-particle analysis 
techniques focus mainly on protein detection, which fail to resolve hybrid EVs 
from infectious virions. A method to simultaneously detect viral protein and 
internal gRNA in the same particle would allow resolution of infectious HIV from 
EVs and noninfectious virions. Here, we introduce SPIRFISH, a high-throughput 
method for single-particle protein and RNA analysis, combining single particle 
interferometric reflectance imaging sensor with single-molecule fluorescence in 
situ hybridization. Using SPIRFISH, we detect HIV-1 envelope protein gp120 and 
genomic RNA within single infectious virions, allowing resolution against EV 
background and noninfectious virions. We further show that SPIRFISH can be used 
to detect specific RNAs within EVs. This may have major utility for EV 
therapeutics, which are increasingly focused on EV-mediated RNA delivery. 
SPIRFISH should enable single particle analysis of a broad class of 
RNA-containing nanoparticles.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.4c03679
PMCID: PMC11447916
PMID: 39306763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing 
financial interest(s): Kenneth W. Witwer is or has been an advisory board member 
of ShiftBio, Exopharm, NeuroDex, NovaDip, and ReNeuron; holds NeuroDex options; 
privately consults as Kenneth Witwer Consulting. Zach Troyer, Mona Batish, and 
Kenneth W. Witwer conduct research under a sponsored research agreement with 
Ionis Pharmaceuticals. Michael B. Elowitz is a scientific advisory board member 
or consultant at TeraCyte, Primordium, and Spatial Genomics. All other authors 
declare they have no competing interests


79. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Nov;20(11):8162-8171. doi: 10.1002/alz.14199. Epub
2024  Sep 22.

Benefits and risks of FDA-approved amyloid-targeting antibodies for treatment of 
early Alzheimer's disease: Navigating clinician-patient engagement.

Rentz DM(1), Aisen PS(2), Atri A(3), Hitchcock J(4), Irizarry M(5), Landen J(6), 
Matthews BR(7), Miller DS(8), Mahinrad S(9), Napoli S(10), Okhravi HR(11), 
Petersen RC(12), Siemers ER(4), Weber CJ(9), Weisman DC(13), Carrillo MC(9).

Author information:
(1)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Departments of Neurology, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)USC Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, San Diego, California, USA.
(3)Banner Sun Health Research Institute and Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Banner 
Health, Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(4)ACUMEN Pharmaceuticals, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(5)Neurology Business Group, Eisai Inc., Nutley, New Jersey, USA.
(6)Biogen, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Eli Lilly & Co, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(8)Signant Health, Blue Bell, Pennsylvania, USA.
(9)Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(10)Neurology Center of New England, Foxborough, Massachusetts, USA.
(11)Department of Medicine, Glennan Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, 
Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, Virginia, USA.
(12)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(13)Abington Neurological Associates, Abington, Pennsylvania, USA.

The emergence of the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved 
amyloid-targeting therapies for Alzheimer's disease challenges clinicians and 
healthcare providers with a transformative landscape. Effectively communicating 
the risks, benefits, burdens, costs, and available support associated with these 
novel disease-modifying treatments to patients, families, and other healthcare 
providers is essential but complex. In response, the Alzheimer's Association's 
Clinical Meaningfulness Workgroup has proposed language surrounding treatment 
eligibility, benefits, amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA), 
apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotyping, and treatment costs, serving as a resource 
to healthcare professionals in navigating discussions with patients and their 
families. As the landscape evolves with the approval of new Alzheimer's 
therapies, this resource stands poised for updates, ensuring its continued 
relevance in facilitating informed and meaningful patient-provider dialogues. 
HIGHLIGHTS: Effective communication of risks, benefits, burdens, and costs of 
FDA-approved amyloid-targeting antibodies is essential to patients, families, 
and healthcare providers. The Alzheimer's Association's Clinical Meaningfulness 
Workgroup provides language for physicians and healthcare providers around 
treatment eligibility, benefits, ARIA, APOE genotyping, and treatment costs. 
This supplementary resource may be updated as new AD therapies become approved.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14199
PMCID: PMC11567834
PMID: 39306695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.A. has received honoraria or support for 
consulting; participating in independent data safety monitoring boards; 
providing educational lectures, programs, and materials; or serving on advisory 
or oversight boards for AbbVie, Acadia, Allergan, the Alzheimer's Association, 
Alzheimer's Disease International, Axovant, AZ Therapies, Biogen, Eisai, 
Grifols, Harvard Medical School Graduate Continuing Education, JOMDD, Life 
Molecular Imaging, Lundbeck, Merck, Prothena, Roche/Genentech, Novo Nordisk, 
Qynapse, Sunovion, Suven, and Synexus. A.A. receives book royalties from Oxford 
University Press for a medical book on dementia. A.A. receives institutional 
research grant/contract funding from NIA/NIH 1P30AG072980, NIA/NIH U22AG057437, 
AZ DHS CTR040636, Washington University St Louis, and Gates Ventures. A.A.’s 
institution receives/received funding for clinical trial grants, contracts and 
projects from government, consortia, foundations and companies for which he 
serves/served as contracted site‐PI. Of special note, A.A. currently serves as 
site‐PI for the AHEAD 3‐45 study (lecanemab for secondary AD prevention); and 
previously served as site‐PI for the A4 study (solanezumab for secondary AD 
prevention), as site‐PI (at his previous institution) for the Biogen EMERGE 
study (aducanumab for early‐AD treatment), and as Project Arm Leader for the 
DIAN‐TU Gantenerumab study. PSA has received grants or contracts to support 
research from the NIH, Alzheimer's Association, FNIH, Lilly, Janssen, and Eisai, 
and has received consultant fees from Merck, Biogen, Abbvie, Roche, Immunobrain 
Checkpoint. D.S.M. is a full‐time employee and shareholder of Signant Health. 
RCP is a full‐time employee of Mayo Foundation for Education and Research, a 
consultant for Roche, Inc., Nestle, Eli Lilly & Co., Genentech Inc. (including 
DSMB), and Eisai, Inc., and has received grant funding from NIA ADRC, MCSA, 
ADNI, ACTC, MarkVCID. D.M.R. has received consulting fees from the Dana 
Foundation. S.M., C.J.W. and M.C.C. are full‐time employees of the Alzheimer's 
Association. J.H. is a full‐time employee of Acumen, has received consulting 
fees from Washington University Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network Trials 
Unit (DIAN‐TU), and is a stockholder for Acumen and Eli Lilly. E.R.S. is 
full‐time employees of Acumen, and has received consulting fees from Cogstate 
Ltd., Cortexyme Inc., Partner Therapeutics Inc., Vaccinex Inc., Gates Ventures 
LLC, Hoffman La Roche Ltd, US Green Valley Pharmaceuticals Inc., has 
participated on a DMSB for Hoffman La Roche Ltd, has been an unpaid consultant 
and unpaid board of directors member for the Alzheimer's Association and Bright 
Focus Foundation, respectively, and is a stockholder for Acumen and Eli Lilly. 
M.I. is a full‐time employee of Eisai, Inc. J.L. was a full‐time employee of 
Biogen and Biogen stockholder at the time of manuscript creation/submission. 
B.R.M. is a full‐time employee and shareholder of Eli Lilly & Co. SN has 
received payment or honoraria from Eisai, Biogen, Serono, and TG Therapeutics. 
HO has received compensation from Biogen & Eisai (salary support), and Biogen & 
Optina Diagnostics (consulting fees to Eastern Virginia Medical School). D.C.W. 
has received grants or contracts from ATRI, Eisai, ATRI, Cognition, Acumen, 
Cerevel, Sage, Acadia, Alzheimer's Association, Alzheon, Lilly, Roche, Serono, 
Sanofi, received payment or honoraria from AAN, Eisai, and Lilly, and has 
participated in DSMBs for Biogen, Eisai, Novartis, FDA, Maplight, and VizAI. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


80. Ageing Res Rev. 2024 Nov;101:102509. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102509. Epub
2024  Sep 19.

The role of parvalbumin interneuron dysfunction across neurodegenerative 
dementias.

Smeralda CL(1), Pandit S(2), Turrini S(3), Reilly J(2), Palmisano A(4), 
Sprugnoli G(2), Hampel H(5), Benussi A(6), Borroni B(7), Press D(8), Rotenberg 
A(9), El Fakhri G(10), Koch G(11), Rossi S(12), Santarnecchi E(13).

Author information:
(1)Precision Neuroscience & Neuromodulation Program, Gordon Center for Medical 
Imaging, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Siena Brain Investigation & Neuromodulation Lab 
(Si-BIN Lab), Unit of Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Department of 
Medicine, Surgery and Neuroscience, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
(2)Precision Neuroscience & Neuromodulation Program, Gordon Center for Medical 
Imaging, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Precision Neuroscience & Neuromodulation Program, Gordon Center for Medical 
Imaging, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Centro Studi e Ricerche in Neuroscienze 
Cognitive, Dipartimento di Psicologia, University of Bologna, Italy.
(4)Chair of Lifespan Developmental Neuroscience, TUD Dresden University of 
Technology, Dresden, Germany.
(5)Sorbonne University, Alzheimer Precision Medicine (APM), AP-HP, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France.
(6)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy; Neurology Unit, Department of Medical, Surgical and 
Health Sciences, University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy.
(7)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(8)Cognitive Neurology Unit, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 330 Brookline 
Avenue, Brookline, MA, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(10)Gordon Center for Medical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Human Physiology Unit, Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, 
University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy; Experimental Neuropsychophysiology 
Laboratory, IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(12)Siena Brain Investigation & Neuromodulation Lab (Si-BIN Lab), Unit of 
Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Department of Medicine, Surgery and 
Neuroscience, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
(13)Precision Neuroscience & Neuromodulation Program, Gordon Center for Medical 
Imaging, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
esantarnecchi@mgh.harvard.edu.

Parvalbumin-positive (PV+) basket neurons are fast-spiking, non-adapting 
inhibitory interneurons whose oscillatory activity is essential for regulating 
cortical excitation/inhibition balance. Their dysfunction results in cortical 
hyperexcitability and gamma rhythm disruption, which have recently gained 
substantial traction as contributing factors as well as potential therapeutic 
targets for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Recent evidence indicates 
that PV+ cells are also impaired in Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) and Dementia 
with Lewy bodies (DLB). However, no attempt has been made to integrate these 
findings into a coherent pathophysiological framework addressing the 
contribution of PV+ interneuron dysfunction to the generation of cortical 
hyperexcitability and gamma rhythm disruption in FTD and DLB. To fill this gap, 
we epitomized the most recent evidence on PV+ interneuron impairment in AD, FTD, 
and DLB, focusing on its contribution to the generation of cortical 
hyperexcitability and gamma oscillatory disruption and their interplay with 
misfolded protein accumulation, neuronal death, and clinical symptoms' onset. 
Our work deepens the current understanding concerning the role of PV+ 
interneuron dysfunction across neurodegenerative dementias, highlighting 
commonalities and differences among AD, FTD, and DLB, thus paving the way for 
identifying novel biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for the treatment 
of these diseases.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102509
PMID: 39306248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest ES and GK are 
scientific co-founders and SR is in the scientific advisory board of Sinaptica 
Therapeutics. ES is a scientific advisor for BottNeuro AG. HH declares no 
competing financial interests related to the present article. This work was 
initiated during his academic appointment at Sorbonne University, Paris, France, 
and reflects his opinion entirely and exclusively. He is an employee of Eisai 
Inc. The present article has been initiated and prepared as part of his academic 
position at Sorbonne University, Paris, France, and reflects his opinion 
entirely and exclusively. He served as Senior Associate Editor and currently as 
Reviewing Editor for the Journal Alzheimer’s & Dementia.


81. Ageing Res Rev. 2024 Nov;101:102506. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102506. Epub
2024  Sep 19.

Faecal intestinal permeability and intestinal inflammatory markers in older 
adults with age-related disorders: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Ahmad Fadzuli NI(1), Lim SM(1), Neoh CF(1), Majeed ABA(2), Tan MP(3), Khor 
HM(3), Tan AH(3), Ramasamy K(4).

Author information:
(1)Collaborative Drug Discovery Research (CDDR) Group, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) Cawangan Selangor, Kampus Puncak Alam, Bandar 
Puncak Alam, Selangor Darul Ehsan 42300, Malaysia.
(2)Brain Degeneration and Therapeutics Group, Faculty of Pharmacy, University 
Teknologi MARA (UiTM) Cawangan Selangor, Kampus Puncak Alam, Selangor Darul 
Ehsan, Selangor Darul Ehsan 42300, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala 
Lumpur 50603, Malaysia.
(4)Collaborative Drug Discovery Research (CDDR) Group, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) Cawangan Selangor, Kampus Puncak Alam, Bandar 
Puncak Alam, Selangor Darul Ehsan 42300, Malaysia. Electronic address: 
kalav922@uitm.edu.my.

This systematic review and meta-analysis appraised previous findings to uncover 
potential faecal intestinal permeability and intestinal inflammatory markers in 
older adults. A comprehensive literature search led to the identification of ten 
eligible studies with findings of potential faecal intestinal permeability 
(zonulin and alpha-1-antitrypsin) and intestinal inflammatory markers 
[calprotectin, lactoferrin and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin 
(NGAL)]. Most of the cases (n > 2) [Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's 
disease (AD)] exhibited higher faecal alpha-1-antitrypsin, zonulin and 
calprotectin levels. The present meta-analysis confirmed significantly higher 
faecal alpha-1-antitrypsin in older persons with PD compared to non-PD [MD = 
22.92 mg/dL; 95 % CI = 14.02-31.81, p < 0.00001; I2 = 0 % (p = 0.73)]. There 
was, however, no significant difference in faecal zonulin between PD and non-PD 
individuals [MD = 26.88 ng/mL; 95 % CI = -29.26-83.01, p = 0.35; I2 = 94 % (p < 
0.0001)]. Meanwhile, faecal calprotectin was higher in older adults with GI 
symptoms, multiple system atrophy (MSA) or PD than the healthy controls [MD = 
9.51 μg/g; 95 % CI = 0.07-18.95, p = 0.05; I2 = 84 % (p < 0.00001)]. Altogether, 
faecal calprotectin appears to be a potential intestinal inflammatory marker 
whereas previous findings on faecal alpha-1-antitrypsin as an intestinal 
permeability marker remain limited and require further validation.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102506
PMID: 39306247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


82. Pharmacol Res. 2024 Nov;209:107404. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2024.107404. Epub
2024  Sep 19.

Astrocyte-derived lactoferrin inhibits neuronal ferroptosis by reducing iron 
content and GPX4 degradation in APP/PS1 transgenic mice.

Fan YG(1), Ge RL(1), Ren H(1), Jia RJ(1), Wu TY(2), Lei XF(1), Wu Z(1), Zhou 
XB(1), Wang ZY(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Medical Cell Biology of Ministry of Education, Key 
Laboratory of Major Chronic Diseases of Nervous System of Liaoning Province, 
Health Sciences Institute of China Medical University, Shenyang 110122, China.
(2)First Affiliated Hospital of Jinzhou Medical University, Jinzhou 
121000, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Medical Cell Biology of Ministry of Education, Key 
Laboratory of Major Chronic Diseases of Nervous System of Liaoning Province, 
Health Sciences Institute of China Medical University, Shenyang 110122, China. 
Electronic address: wangzy@cmu.edu.cn.

Increased astrocytic lactoferrin (Lf) expression was observed in the brains of 
elderly individuals and Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Our previous study 
revealed that astrocytic Lf overexpression improved cognitive capacity by 
facilitating Lf secretion to neurons to inhibit β-amyloid protein (Aβ) 
production in APP/PS1 mice. Here, we further discovered that astrocytic Lf 
overexpression inhibited neuronal loss by decreasing iron accumulation and 
increasing glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression in neurons within APP/PS1 
mice. Furthermore, human Lf (hLf) treatment inhibited ammonium ferric citrate 
(FAC)-induced ferroptosis by chelating intracellular iron. Additionally, machine 
learning analysis uncovered a correlation between Lf and GPX4. hLf treatment 
boosted low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) 
internalization and facilitated its interaction with heat shock cognate 70 
(HSC70), thereby inhibiting HSC70 binds to GPX4, and eventually attenuating GPX4 
degradation and FAC-induced ferroptosis. Overall, astrocytic Lf overexpression 
inhibited neuronal ferroptosis through two pathways: reducing intracellular iron 
accumulation and promoting GPX4 expression via inhibiting chaperone-mediated 
autophagy (CMA)-mediated GPX4 degradation. Hence, upregulating astrocytic Lf 
expression is a promising strategy for combating AD.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2024.107404
PMID: 39306020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


83. Neuroimage. 2024 Oct 15;300:120862. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2024.120862.
Epub  2024 Sep 19.

Reliable measurement of auditory-driven gamma synchrony with a single EEG 
electrode: A simultaneous EEG-MEG study.

Pellegrino G(1), Isabella SL(2), Ferrazzi G(3), Gschwandtner L(4), Tik M(5), 
Arcara G(6), Marinazzo D(7), Schuler AL(8).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Neurological Sciences Department, Schulich School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Campus Bio-Medico University of Rome, Rome, Italy; IRCCS San Camillo 
Hospital, Via Alberoni 80, 30126, Venice, Italy.
(3)Philips Healthcare, Milan, Italy.
(4)Center for Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering, Medical University of 
Vienna, Austria.
(5)Center for Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering, Medical University of 
Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: martin.tik@meduniwien.ac.at.
(6)IRCCS San Camillo Hospital, Via Alberoni 80, 30126, Venice, Italy; Department 
of General Psychology, University of Padua, Padua, Italy.
(7)Department of Data Analysis, Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, 
Ghent University, Belgium.
(8)Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences, Leipzig, 
Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Auditory-driven gamma synchrony (GS) is linked to the function of a 
specific cortical circuit based on a parvalbumin+ and pyramidal neuron loop. 
This circuit is impaired in neuropsychiatric conditions (i.e. schizophrenia, 
Alzheimer's disease, stroke etc.) and its relevance in clinical practice is 
increasingly being recognized. Auditory stimulation at a typical gamma frequency 
of 40 Hz can be applied as a 'stress test' of excitation/inhibition (E/I) of the 
entire cerebral cortex, to drive GS and record it with magnetoencephalography 
(MEG) or high-density electroencephalography (EEG). However, these two 
techniques are costly and not widely available. Therefore, we assessed whether a 
single EEG electrode is sufficient to provide an accurate estimate of the 
auditory-driven GS level of the entire cortical surface while expecting the 
highest correspondence in the auditory and somatosensory cortices.
METHODS: We measured simultaneous EEG-MEG in 29 healthy subjects, utilizing 3 
EEG electrodes (C4, F4, O2) and a full MEG setup. Recordings were performed 
during binaural exposure to auditory gamma stimulation and during silence. We 
compared GS measurement of each of the three EEG electrodes separately against 
full MEG mapping. Time-resolved phase locking value (PLVt) was computed between 
EEG signals and cortex reconstructed MEG signals.
RESULTS: During auditory stimulation, but not at rest, EEG captures a 
significant amount of GS, especially from both auditory cortices and 
motor-premotor regions. This was especially true for frontal (C4) and central 
electrodes (F4).
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: While hd-EEG and MEG are necessary for accurate 
spatial mapping of GS at rest and during auditory stimulation, a single EEG 
channel is sufficient to detect the global level of GS. These results have great 
translational potential for mapping GS in standard clinical settings.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2024.120862
PMID: 39305968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no conflict of interest to disclose.


84. Phytomedicine. 2024 Dec;135:156063. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156063. Epub
2024  Sep 16.

Ginsenoside Rg2 alleviates astrocyte inflammation and ameliorates the 
permeability of the Alzheimer's disease related blood-brain barrier.

Lu YW(1), Wang YJ(2), Wang Z(1), Ren S(1), Gong XJ(3), Hu JN(1), Zhang JT(4), Li 
W(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Chinese Medicinal Materials, National & Local Joint Engineering 
Research Center for Ginseng Breeding and Development, Jilin Agricultural 
University, Changchun 130118, PR China.
(2)College of Chinese Medicinal Materials, National & Local Joint Engineering 
Research Center for Ginseng Breeding and Development, Jilin Agricultural 
University, Changchun 130118, PR China; College of Life Sciences, Jilin 
Agricultural University, Changchun 130118, PR China.
(3)Department of Biological Engineering, College of Life Science, Dalian Minzu 
University, Dalian 116600, PR China.
(4)College of Chinese Medicinal Materials, National & Local Joint Engineering 
Research Center for Ginseng Breeding and Development, Jilin Agricultural 
University, Changchun 130118, PR China. Electronic address: 
zjt18104440010@126.com.
(5)College of Chinese Medicinal Materials, National & Local Joint Engineering 
Research Center for Ginseng Breeding and Development, Jilin Agricultural 
University, Changchun 130118, PR China; College of Life Sciences, Jilin 
Agricultural University, Changchun 130118, PR China. Electronic address: 
liwei7727@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Damage to the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is vital for the development 
of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Ginsenoside Rg2 (G-Rg2) has been shown to improve a 
variety of brain injuries, but whether G-Rg2 can improve the BBB leakage related 
to AD is still unclear.
PURPOSE: Illuminate the effect and mechanism of G-Rg2 on AD-related BBB damage. 
To clarify the role of G-Rg2 in Toll-like receptor pathway and oxidative stress 
pathway and its effect on tight junction proteins (TJs) expression in vivo and 
in vitro experiments.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In our research, the tightness of the BBB was improved and 
the inflammatory pathway was suppressed after 4 weeks of treatment with G-Rg2 
(10 mg kg-1 and 20 mg kg-1) in aluminum trichloride (AlCl3) plus d-galactose 
(D-gal) caused AD mice (p < 0.05; p < 0.01). Concurrently, the stability of TJs 
in mouse brain endothelial cells (bEnd3) was improved after okadaic acid (OA) 
-induced AD model cells were pretreated with G-Rg2 (5 μM, 10 μM, and 20 μM) for 
24 h (p < 0.05; p < 0.01). The oxidative stress pathway and Toll-like receptor 
pathway in mouse astrocyte-cerebellum (MA-c) were inhibited (p < 0.05; p < 
0.01). Meanwhile, in vitro interaction model results showed that G-Rg2 reduced 
the activation of MA-c, thereby alleviating the degradation of TJs in bEnd3 (p < 
0.05; p < 0.01). The co-culture system of MA-c and bEnd3 further clearly 
demonstrated that G-Rg2 (20 μM) could improve their interaction and enhance BBB 
tightness.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that G-Rg2 can inhibit the TLR4/MyD88/MMP9 
inflammatory pathway by reducing the activation of MA-c and the binding of TLR4 
to MyD88, thereby decreasing the secretion of inflammatory factors and matrix 
metalloproteinases (MMPs), hence maintaining the stability of TJs in bEnd3, 
which may be one of the mechanisms of G-Rg2 in reducing AD-related BBB damage.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156063
PMID: 39305744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We declare 
that we have no financial and personal relationships with other people or 
organizations that can inappropriately influence our work, there is no 
professional or other personal interest of any nature or kind in any product, 
service and/or company that could be construed as influencing the position 
presented in, or the review of, the manuscript entitled.


85. Ther Deliv. 2024;15(12):997-1024. doi: 10.1080/20415990.2024.2401307. Epub
2024  Sep 19.

Nanotechnology-driven therapies for neurodegenerative diseases: a comprehensive 
review.

López-Espinosa J(1)(2), Park P(1), Holcomb M(1), Godin B(3)(4)(5)(6), Villapol 
S(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery & Center for Neuroregeneration, Houston, TX USA.
(2)School of Medicine and Health Sciences of Tecnológico de 
Monterrey, Guadalajara, México.
(3)Department of Nanomedicine, Houston Methodist Research Institute, Houston, TX 
USA.
(4)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, 
TX USA.
(5)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Weill Cornell Medicine College, New 
York, NY USA.
(6)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Texas A&M University, College Station, 
TX USA.
(7)Department of Neuroscience in Neurological Surgery, Weill Cornell Medical 
College, New York, NY USA.

Neurological diseases, characterized by neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration, 
impose a significant global burden, contributing to substantial morbidity, 
disability and mortality. A common feature of these disorders, including stroke, 
traumatic brain injury and Alzheimer's disease, is the impairment of the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB), a critical structure for maintaining brain 
homeostasis. The compromised BBB in neurodegenerative conditions poses a 
significant challenge for effective treatment, as it allows harmful substances 
to accumulate in the brain. Nanomedicine offers a promising approach to 
overcoming this barrier, with nanoparticles (NPs) engineered to deliver 
therapeutic agents directly to affected brain regions. This review explores the 
classification and design of NPs, divided into organic and inorganic categories 
and further categorized based on their chemical and physical properties. These 
characteristics influence the ability of NPs to carry and release therapeutic 
agents, target specific tissues and ensure appropriate clearance from the body. 
The review emphasizes the potential of NPs to enhance the diagnosis and 
treatment of neurodegenerative diseases through targeted delivery, improved drug 
bioavailability and real-time therapeutic efficacy monitoring. By addressing the 
challenges of the compromised BBB and targeting inflammatory biomarkers, NPs 
represent a cutting-edge strategy in managing neurological disorders, promising 
better patient outcomes.

Plain Language Summary: [Box: see text].

DOI: 10.1080/20415990.2024.2401307
PMCID: PMC11583628
PMID: 39297726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests or 
relevant affiliations with any organization or entity with the subject matter or 
materials discussed in the manuscript. This includes employment, consultancies, 
stock ownership or options and expert testimony.


86. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2024 Sep 18. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273298025240905130205. Online ahead of print.

Exploring the Potential of Herbal Compounds as Autophagy Modulators in 
Alzheimer's Disease: A Comprehensive Review.

Yadav E(1), Mandal AK(2), Sah AK(3), Poudel S(3), Pathak P(4)(5), Khalilullah 
H(6), Jaremko M(7), Emwas AH(8), Yadav P(1), Verma A(1).

Author information:
(1)Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Research Laboratory, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology 
and Sciences, Prayagraj, 211007, India.
(2)Natural Product Research Laboratory, Thapathali, Kathmandu 44600, Nepal.
(3)Faculty of Health Science, School of Health and Allied Sciences, Pokhara 
University, Lekhnath, Kaski 33700, Nepal.
(4)Laboratory of Drug Discovery, School of Pharmacy, GITAM (deemed to be 
University), 502329, India.
(5)Laboratory of Computational Modelling of Drugs, Higher Medical and Biological 
School, South Ural State University, 454080, Russia.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, Unaizah College of 
Pharmacy, Qassim University, Unayzah, 51911, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Smart-Health Initiative (SHI) and Red Sea Research Center (RSRC), Division of 
Biological and Environmental Sciences and Engineering (BESE), King Abdullah 
University of Science and Technology (KAUST), Thuwal 23955-6900, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Core Labs, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), Thuwal 
23955-6900, Saudi Arabia.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that causes 
atrophy of brain cells, leading to their death, and has become a leading cause 
of death in aging populations worldwide. AD is characterized by β-amyloid (Aβ) 
deposition and tau phosphorylation in neural tissues, but the precise 
pathophysiology of the disease is still obscure. Autophagy is an evolutionarily 
targeted mechanism that is necessary for the elimination of neuronal and glial 
misfolded proteins as well as proteins. It also plays an essential role in 
synaptic plasticity. The aberrant autophagy primarily influences the process of 
aging and neurodegeneration. Autophagy significantly influences how Aβ and tau 
function physiologically, therefore, atypical autophagy is expected to perform 
an important role in Aβ deposition and tau phosphorylation characteristic in the 
development of AD. Bioactive phytoconstituents could majorly contribute as a 
natural yet effective alternative approach to slow down the progression of 
neurodegeneration and promote the active aging process in elderly patients. Over 
the recent years, it is well evidenced that different secondary metabolites 
including polyphenols, alkaloids, terpenes, and phenols exhibited 
neuroprotective effects, and attenuated brain damage, and cognitive impairment 
in vitro as well as in vivo. Additionally, the underlying mechanism of action 
shared by them is the regulation of competent autophagy via the removal of 
aggregated protein and mitochondrial dysfunction. The present article is 
structured as a reference for researchers keen to investigate and assess the new 
natural compound-mediated therapeutic approach for AD treatment through the 
modulation of autophagy.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273298025240905130205
PMID: 39297466


87. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2025;24(2):144-157. doi: 
10.2174/0118715273325789240904065214.

The Neuroprotective Role of Tangeritin.

Fatima J(1), Siddique YH(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Alternative Animal Models, Section of Genetics, Department of 
Zoology, Faculty of Life Sciences, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, 202002, 
Uttar Pradesh, India.

The prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases has increased with longer life 
expectancies, necessitating the exploration of novel neuroprotective agents. 
Tangeretin, a polymethoxylated flavone derived from citrus fruits, has gathered 
attention for its potential therapeutic effects. This review highlights the 
neuroprotective properties of tangeretin via its antioxidant and 
anti-inflammatory mechanisms. Tangeretin demonstrates efficacy in mitigating 
oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and neuronal damage across various 
neurodegenerative conditions, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's 
disease, cerebral ischemia, and epilepsy. It shows promise in ameliorating 
cognitive deficits and memory impairments associated with these diseases. 
Moreover, tangeretin modulates multiple signalling pathways and protects against 
neuronal apoptosis, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic agent.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715273325789240904065214
PMID: 39297465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Eur J Neurosci. 2024 Oct;60(8):6057-6090. doi: 10.1111/ejn.16541. Epub 2024
Sep  19.

Extracellular vesicle and CRISPR gene therapy: Current applications in 
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and 
Huntington's disease.

Akyuz E(1), Aslan FS(2), Gokce E(3), Ilmaz O(4), Topcu F(4), Kakac S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, International School of Medicine, University of 
Health Sciences, Istanbul, Türkiye.
(2)School of Medicine, Marmara University, Istanbul, Türkiye.
(3)School of Medicine, Pamukkale University, Denizli, Türkiye.
(4)School of Medicine, Giresun University, Giresun, Türkiye.
(5)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Faculty of Science, Gebze 
Technical University, Kocaeli, Türkiye.

Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by progressive deterioration of the 
nervous system. Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Huntington's disease (HD) are prominently 
life-threatening examples of neurodegenerative diseases. The complexity of the 
pathophysiology in neurodegenerative diseases causes difficulties in diagnosing. 
Although the drugs temporarily help to correct specific symptoms including 
memory loss and degeneration, a complete treatment has not been found yet. New 
therapeutic approaches have been developed to understand and treat the 
underlying pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. With this purpose, 
clustered-regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated 
protein (CRISPR/Cas) technology has recently suggested a new treatment option. 
Editing of the genome is carried out by insertion and deletion processes on DNA. 
Safe delivery of the CRISPR/Cas system to the targeted cells without affecting 
surrounding cells is frequently investigated. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), that 
is exosomes, have recently been used in CRISPR/Cas studies. In this review, 
CRISPR/Cas and EV approaches used for diagnosis and/or treatment in AD, PD, ALS, 
and HD are reviewed. CRISPR/Cas and EV technologies, which stand out as new 
therapeutic approaches, may offer a definitive treatment option in 
neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2024 The Author(s). European Journal of Neuroscience published by Federation 
of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.16541
PMID: 39297377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Inflammopharmacology. 2024 Dec;32(6):3745-3759. doi:
10.1007/s10787-024-01570-4.  Epub 2024 Sep 21.

A medicine and food homology formula prevents cognitive deficits by inhibiting 
neuroinflammation and oxidative stress via activating AEA-Trpv1-Nrf2 pathway.

Li MJ(1)(2), Xu JY(3), Zhang HY(1), Guo M(1), Lan MN(1), Kong J(1), Liu SW(4), 
Zheng HJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai-MOST Key Laboratory of Health and Disease Genomics, NHC Key Lab of 
Reproduction Regulation, Shanghai Institute for Biomedical and Pharmaceutical 
Technologies, Shanghai, 200237, China.
(2)College of Food Science and Technology, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, 
201306, China.
(3)School of Life Science and Biopharmaceutics, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, Shenyang, 117004, China.
(4)Shanghai Xizuo Biotechnology Co., Ltd, Shanghai, 201107, China.
(5)Shanghai-MOST Key Laboratory of Health and Disease Genomics, NHC Key Lab of 
Reproduction Regulation, Shanghai Institute for Biomedical and Pharmaceutical 
Technologies, Shanghai, 200237, China. zhenghj@chgc.sh.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder frequently accompanied 
by neuroinflammation and oxidative stress. The medicine and food homology (MFH) 
has shown potential for treating neuroinflammation and oxidative stress. This 
study aimed to provide a safe and efficient therapy for AD based on MFH. In this 
study, we develop a MFH formula consisting of egg yolk oil, perilla seed oil, 
raphani seed oil, cinnamon oil, and noni puree (EPRCN). To evaluate the 
ameliorative effects of EPRCN on AD-related symptoms, a mouse model of AD was 
constructed using intraperitoneal injection of scopolamine in ICR mice. 
Experimental results demonstrated that EPRCN supplement restored behavioral 
deficits and suppressed neuroinflammation and oxidative stress in the 
hippocampus of scopolamine-induced mice. An in vitro study was then performed 
using induction of Aβ(25-35) in glial (BV-2 and SW-1783) and neuron (SH-SY5Y) 
cell lines to examine the improvement mechanism of EPRCN on cognitive deficits. 
Multi-omics and in vitro studies demonstrated that these changes were driven by 
the anandamide (AEA)-Trpv1-Nrf2 pathway, which was inhibited by AM404 (an AEA 
inhibitor), AMG9810 (a Trpv1 inhibitor), and BT (an Nrf2 inhibitor). 
Consequently, EPRCN is an effective therapy on preventing cognitive deficits in 
mouse models of AD. In contrast to donepezil, EPRCN exhibits a novel modes 
action for ameliorating neuroinflammation. The mechanism of EPRCN on preventing 
cognitive deficits is mediated by improving neuroinflammation and oxidative 
stress via activating the AEA-Trpv1-Nrf2 pathway.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-024-01570-4
PMID: 39305407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Nanobiotechnology. 2024 Sep 20;22(1):582. doi: 10.1186/s12951-024-02862-1.

Encapsulated lactiplantibacillus plantarum improves Alzheimer's symptoms in 
APP/PS1 mice.

Hu F(1), Gao Q(1), Zheng C(1), Zhang W(1), Yang Z(1), Wang S(1), Zhang Y(2), Lu 
T(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Space Bioscience and Biotechnology, Engineering Research 
Center of Chinese Ministry of Education for Biological Diagnosis, Treatment and 
Protection Technology and Equipment, School of Life Sciences, Northwestern 
Polytechnical University, Xi'an, 710072, P. R. China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Space Bioscience and Biotechnology, Engineering Research 
Center of Chinese Ministry of Education for Biological Diagnosis, Treatment and 
Protection Technology and Equipment, School of Life Sciences, Northwestern 
Polytechnical University, Xi'an, 710072, P. R. China. yann.zhang@nwpu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Space Bioscience and Biotechnology, Engineering Research 
Center of Chinese Ministry of Education for Biological Diagnosis, Treatment and 
Protection Technology and Equipment, School of Life Sciences, Northwestern 
Polytechnical University, Xi'an, 710072, P. R. China. 
lutinglixinxin@nwpu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that can 
result in neurotoxicity and an imbalance in gut microbiota. Probiotics have been 
shown to play an important role in regulating the gut microbiota, but their 
viability and bioactivity are often compromised as they traverse the 
gastrointestinal tract, thereby reducing their efficacy and limiting their 
clinical utility.
RESULTS: In this work, layer-by-layer (LbL) encapsulation technology was used to 
encapsulate Lactiplantibacillus plantarum (LP) to improve the above 
shortcomings. Studies in APPswe/PS1dE9 (APP/PS1) transgenic mice show that 
LbL-encapsulated LP ((CS/SP)2-LP) protects LP from gastrointestinal damage while 
(CS/SP)2-LP treatment It improves brain neuroinflammation and neuronal damage in 
AD mice, reduces Aβ deposition, improves tau protein phosphorylation levels, and 
restores intestinal barrier damage in AD mice. In addition, post-synaptic 
density protein 95 (PSD-95) expression increased in AD mice after treatment, 
indicating enhanced synaptic plasticity. Fecal metabolomic and microbiological 
analyzes showed that the disordered intestinal microbiota composition of AD mice 
was restored and short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) levels were significantly 
increased after (CS/SP)2-LP treatment.
CONCLUSION: Overall, the above evidence suggests that (CS/SP)2-LP can improve AD 
symptoms by restoring the balance of intestinal microbiota, and (CS/SP)2-LP 
treatment will provide a new method to improve the symptoms of AD patients.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12951-024-02862-1
PMCID: PMC11414319
PMID: 39304919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


91. Nat Biomed Eng. 2025 Apr;9(4):566-598. doi: 10.1038/s41551-024-01250-2. Epub 
2024 Sep 20.

Meta-analysis of the make-up and properties of in vitro models of the healthy 
and diseased blood-brain barrier.

Shamul JG(1)(2), Wang Z(1), Gong H(1), Ou W(1), White AM(1), Moniz-Garcia DP(3), 
Gu S(2), Clyne AM(1)(4)(5), Quiñones-Hinojosa A(6), He X(7)(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Fischell Department of Bioengineering, University of Maryland, College Park, 
MD, USA.
(2)RNA Mediated Gene Regulation Section, RNA Biology Laboratory, Center for 
Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
(4)Robert E. Fischell Institute for Biomedical Devices, University of Maryland, 
College Park, MD, USA.
(5)Brain and Behavior Institute, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA. 
quinones-hinojosa.alfredo@mayo.edu.
(7)Fischell Department of Bioengineering, University of Maryland, College Park, 
MD, USA. shawnhe@umd.edu.
(8)Robert E. Fischell Institute for Biomedical Devices, University of Maryland, 
College Park, MD, USA. shawnhe@umd.edu.
(9)Brain and Behavior Institute, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA. 
shawnhe@umd.edu.
(10)Marlene and Stewart Greenebaum Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of 
Maryland, Baltimore, MD, USA. shawnhe@umd.edu.

In vitro models of the human blood-brain barrier (BBB) are increasingly used to 
develop therapeutics that can cross the BBB for treating diseases of the central 
nervous system. Here we report a meta-analysis of the make-up and properties of 
transwell and microfluidic models of the healthy BBB and of BBBs in 
glioblastoma, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and inflammatory 
diseases. We found that the type of model, the culture method (static or 
dynamic), the cell types and cell ratios, and the biomaterials employed as 
extracellular matrix are all crucial to recapitulate the low permeability and 
high expression of tight-junction proteins of the BBB, and to obtain high 
trans-endothelial electrical resistance. Specifically, for models of the healthy 
BBB, the inclusion of endothelial cells and pericytes as well as physiological 
shear stresses (~10-20 dyne cm-2) are necessary, and when astrocytes are added, 
astrocytes or pericytes should outnumber endothelial cells. We expect this 
meta-analysis to facilitate the design of increasingly physiological models of 
the BBB.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41551-024-01250-2
PMCID: PMC11922799
PMID: 39304761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


92. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2025 Mar;50(4):640-650. doi: 
10.1038/s41386-024-01994-0. Epub 2024 Sep 20.

Cathepsin B modulates microglial migration and phagocytosis of amyloid β in 
Alzheimer's disease through PI3K-Akt signaling.

Jiang M(1)(2), Zhao D(3), Zhou Y(4), Kong W(2), Xie Z(2), Xiong Y(5), Li Y(5), 
Zhao S(2), Kou X(2), Zhang S(2), Meng R(2), Pan Y(1), Wu Z(6), Nakanishi H(7), 
Zhao J(8), Li H(2)(9), Quan Z(2), Lin L(10), Qing H(2)(9), Ni J(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, Liaoning Provincial Key Laboratory of Oral 
Diseases, School and Hospital of Stomatology, China Medical University, 
Shenyang, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Biotherapy, School of Life Science, 
Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Implant Dentistry, Beijing Stomatological Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Hematology, the Affiliated Suzhou Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Suzhou Municipal Hospital, Suzhou, China.
(5)Beijing 171 Middle School, Beijing, China.
(6)Department of Aging Science and Pharmacology, OBT Research Center, Faculty of 
Dental Science, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's University, 
Hiroshima, Japan.
(8)Aerospace Medical Center, Aerospace Center Hospital, Beijing, China.
(9)Department of Biology, Shenzhen MSU-BIT University, Shenzhen, China.
(10)Department of Periodontics, Liaoning Provincial Key Laboratory of Oral 
Diseases, School and Hospital of Stomatology, China Medical University, 
Shenyang, China. linli@cmu.edu.cn.
(11)Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Biotherapy, School of Life Science, 
Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, China. nijunjun@bit.edu.cn.

The approval of anti-amyloid β (Aβ) monoclonal antibodies (lecanemab) for the 
treatment of patients with early preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
by the Food and Drug Administration, suggests the reliability and importance of 
brain Aβ clearance for AD therapy. Microglia are the main phagocytes that clear 
Aβ in the brain, but the underlying regulatory mechanism is unclear. Here, we 
investigate the critical role of cathepsin B (CatB) in modulating microglial Aβ 
clearance from mouse brain. Wild-type or CatB-/- mice were injected with Aβ into 
the hippocampus from 1 to 3 weeks. Mice were evaluated for cognitive change, Aβ 
metabolism, neuroinflammation. Microglia and neuron cultures were prepared to 
verify the in vivo results. The statistical analyses were performed by student's 
t test, one-way ANOVA with a post hoc Tukey's test using the GraphPad Prism 
software package. CatB deficiency significantly reduces Aβ clearance efficiency 
and aggravates mouse cognitive decline. Exogenous Aβ markedly increases CatB 
expression in activated microglia. Transcriptome analysis and in vitro cell 
culture experiments demonstrate that CatB is associated with gene clusters 
involved in migration, phagocytosis, and inflammation. In addition, 
transcriptome analysis and immunoblotting suggest that CatB modulates microglial 
Aβ clearance via PI3K-AKT activation. Our study unveils a previously unknown 
role of CatB in promoting microglial functionality during Aβ clearance.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to American College of 
Neuropsychopharmacology.

DOI: 10.1038/s41386-024-01994-0
PMCID: PMC11845476
PMID: 39304744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The author declares no 
competing interests. Ethics approval: All animal care and experimental 
procedures were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of 
the Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT-EC-SCXK2018-0003-M-2021028) in 
conformity with the international guidelines on the ethics of animal 
experimentation.


93. Nat Commun. 2024 Sep 20;15(1):8251. doi: 10.1038/s41467-024-52298-2.

CYP1B1-RMDN2 Alzheimer's disease endophenotype locus identified for cerebral tau 
PET.

Nho K(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Risacher SL(#)(1)(3), Apostolova LG(1)(3)(5)(6), Bice 
PJ(1)(3), Brosch JR(3)(5), Deardorff R(3)(5), Faber K(6)(7), Farlow MR(3)(5), 
Foroud T(3)(6)(7), Gao S(3)(8), Rosewood T(1)(2)(3), Kim JP(1)(2)(3), Nudelman 
K(3)(6)(7), Yu M(1)(3), Aisen P(9), Sperling R(10), Hooli B(11), Shcherbinin 
S(11), Svaldi D(11), Jack CR Jr(12), Jagust WJ(13), Landau S(13), Vasanthakumar 
A(14), Waring JF(14), Doré V(15)(16), Laws SM(17), Masters CL(18), Porter T(17), 
Rowe CC(16)(18), Villemagne VL(16)(19), Dumitrescu L(20)(21), Hohman TJ(20)(21), 
Libby JB(20), Mormino E(22), Buckley RF(10), Johnson K(10)(23), Yang HS(10)(24), 
Petersen RC(25), Ramanan VK(25), Ertekin-Taner N(26)(27), Vemuri P(12), Cohen 
AD(19), Fan KH(28), Kamboh MI(28), Lopez OL(19)(29), Bennett DA(30), Ali M(31), 
Benzinger T(32), Cruchaga C(31)(33), Hobbs D(32), De Jager PL(34), Fujita M(34), 
Jadhav V(6)(35), Lamb BT(3)(6)(35), Tsai AP(22)(35)(36), Castanho I(37)(38), 
Mill J(37), Weiner MW(39)(40); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 
(ADNI); Department of Defense Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 
(DoD-ADNI); Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer’s Study (A4 Study) 
and Longitudinal Evaluation of Amyloid Risk and Neurodegeneration (LEARN); 
Australian Imaging, Biomarker & Lifestyle Study (AIBL); Saykin 
AJ(41)(42)(43)(44)(45).

Author information:
(1)Center for Neuroimaging, Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, 
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA.
(2)Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA.
(3)Indiana Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, USA.
(4)Department of BioHealth Informatics, Indiana University, Indianapolis, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
USA.
(6)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, USA.
(7)National Centralized Repository for Alzheimer's Disease and Related 
Dementias, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA.
(8)Department of Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, San Diego, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, USA.
(11)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, USA.
(12)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, USA.
(13)UC Berkeley Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California - 
Berkeley, Berkeley, USA.
(14)Genomics Research Center, AbbVie, North Chicago, USA.
(15)CSIRO Health and Biosecurity, Melbourne, Australia.
(16)Department of Molecular Imaging & Therapy, Austin Health, Heidelberg, 
Australia.
(17)Centre for Precision Health, School of Medical and Health Sciences, Edith 
Cowan University, Joondalup, Australia.
(18)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health and The University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.
(19)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, USA.
(20)Vanderbilt Memory & Alzheimer's Center, Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center, Nashville, USA.
(21)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, USA.
(22)Department of Neurology & Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, 
Stanford, USA.
(23)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, USA.
(24)Center for Alzheimer's Research and Treatment, Department of Neurology, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA.
(25)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, USA.
(26)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, USA.
(27)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, USA.
(28)Department of Human Genetics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, USA.
(29)Department of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, USA.
(30)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush Medical College, Rush University, 
Chicago, USA.
(31)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University, St. Louis, USA.
(32)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, USA.
(33)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, USA.
(34)Center for Translational and Computational Neuroimmunology, Department of 
Neurology and Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging 
Brain, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, USA.
(35)Stark Neuroscience Research Institute, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, USA.
(36)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, USA.
(37)Department for Clinical and Biomedical Sciences, University of Exeter 
Medical School, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(38)Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, USA.
(39)Departments of Radiology, Medicine, and Psychiatry, University of 
California-San Francisco, San Francisco, USA.
(40)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, USA.
(41)Center for Neuroimaging, Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, 
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA. asaykin@iu.edu.
(42)Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA. asaykin@iu.edu.
(43)Indiana Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, USA. asaykin@iu.edu.
(44)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, USA. asaykin@iu.edu.
(45)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, USA. asaykin@iu.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Determining the genetic architecture of Alzheimer's disease pathologies can 
enhance mechanistic understanding and inform precision medicine strategies. 
Here, we perform a genome-wide association study of cortical tau quantified by 
positron emission tomography in 3046 participants from 12 independent studies. 
The CYP1B1-RMDN2 locus is associated with tau deposition. The most significant 
signal is at rs2113389, explaining 4.3% of the variation in cortical tau, while 
APOE4 rs429358 accounts for 3.6%. rs2113389 is associated with higher tau and 
faster cognitive decline. Additive effects, but no interactions, are observed 
between rs2113389 and diagnosis, APOE4, and amyloid beta positivity. CYP1B1 
expression is upregulated in AD. rs2113389 is associated with higher CYP1B1 
expression and methylation levels. Mouse model studies provide additional 
functional evidence for a relationship between CYP1B1 and tau deposition but not 
amyloid beta. These results provide insight into the genetic basis of cerebral 
tau deposition and support novel pathways for therapeutic development in AD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-024-52298-2
PMCID: PMC11415491
PMID: 39304655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Apostolova received grant or other financial 
support from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Alzheimer’s Association, 
AVID Pharmaceuticals, Life Molecular Imaging, Roche Diagnostics, and Eli Lilly. 
In addition, she has received consulting fees from Biogen, Two Labs, IQIVA, 
Florida Department of Health, Genentech, NIH Biobank, Eli Lilly, GE Healthcare, 
Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics. She has also received payment or honoraria from 
American Academy of Neurology, MillerMed, National Alzheimer’s Coordinating 
Center CME, CME Institute, APhA, Purdue University, Mayo Clinic, MJH Physician 
Education Resource, and Ohio State University. She received support for travel 
from the Alzheimer’s Association. She has served on Data Safety and Monitoring 
or Advisory Boards for IQVIA, UAB Nathan Schock Center, New Mexico Exploratory 
ADRC, and NIA R01 AG061111. She has a leadership role in multiple committees, 
including the Medical Science Council of the Alzheimer’s Association Greater 
Indiana Chapter, the Alzheimer’s Association Science Program Committee, and the 
FDA PCNS Advisory Committee. Finally, Dr. Apostolova holds stock in Cassava 
Neurosciences and Golden Seeds. Dr. Foroud receives support from multiple NIH 
grants (U24 NS095871, U24 AG021886, U24 AG056270, U01 AA026103, U10 AA008401, 
P30 AG010133, R01 AG019771, U01 AG032984, P30 AR072581, U01 AG057195, UL1 
TR002529, U19 AG063911; U19 AG063744, U19 AG068054, R01 AG069453, U54 CA196519, 
R01 AG061146, R01 AG073267, R01 AG074971, U19 AG071754, R01 AG055444, R01 
AG070349, U19 AG024904, R01 AG076634, U19 AG079774, U54 CA280897, U19 NS120384); 
the Michael J. Fox Foundation (MJFF001948); Cohen Veterans Biosciences; The 
Parkinson’s Disease Foundation; Children’s Tumor Foundation; Broad Institute; 
Lumind Foundation; and Gates Venture (0432-06-120975). Dr. Jagust has served as 
a consultant for Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, and Bioclinica. He has an equity interest 
in Optoceuticals. Aparna Vasanthakumar and Jeffrey F. Waring are employees of 
AbbVie and may own AbbVie stock. Dr. Hohman receives support from multiple NIH 
grants (U24-AG074855, P20-AG068082, R01-AG061518, R01-AG059716, R01-AG074012, 
RF1-AG059869). He also sits on the advisory board for Vivid Genomics and is a 
Senior Associate Editor for Alzheimer’s and Dementia: Translational Research and 
Clinical Intervention. Hyun-Sik Yang received personal fees (honorarium) from 
Genentech, Inc outside the submitted work. Dr. Vemuri receives funding support 
from the NIH. Dr. Cruchaga has received research support from: GSK and EISAI. 
The funders of the study had no role in the collection, analysis, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the report; or in the decision to 
submit the paper for publication. Dr. Cruchaga is a member of the advisory board 
of Vivid Genomics and Circular Genomics. Dr. Saykin receives support from 
multiple NIH grants (P30 AG010133, P30 AG072976, R01 AG019771, R01 AG057739, U19 
AG024904, R01 LM013463, R01 AG068193, T32 AG071444, U01 AG068057, U01 AG072177 
and U19 AG074879). He has also received support from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, 
a subsidiary of Eli Lilly (in kind contribution of PET tracer precursor); Bayer 
Oncology (Scientific Advisory Board); Eisai (Scientific Advisory Board); Siemens 
Medical Solutions USA, Inc. (Dementia Advisory Board); NIH NHLBI (MESA 
Observational Study Monitoring Board); Springer-Nature Publishing (Editorial 
Office Support as Editor-in-Chief, Brain Imaging and Behavior). Dr. 
Ertekin-Taner receives support from multiple NIH grants (R01 AG061796, U19 
AG074879, U01 AG046139, KL2 TR002379), Alzheimer’s Association Zenith Fellows 
Award and Florida Department of Health. She serves as an advisor to the 
Framingham Heart Study (NIH NHLBI 75N92019D00031/75N92019F00125). She also has a 
provisional patent application unrelated to this work. The remaining authors 
declare no competing interests.


94. Lancet Neurol. 2024 Oct;23(10):973-1003. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00369-7.

Global, regional, and national burden of stroke and its risk factors, 1990-2021: 
a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2021.

GBD 2021 Stroke Risk Factor Collaborators.

Collaborators: Feigin VL(1), Abate MD(2), Abate YH(3), Abd ElHafeez S(4), 
Abd-Allah F(5), Abdelalim A(5), Abdelkader A(6), Abdelmasseh M(7), Abd-Elsalam 
S(8), Abdi P(9), Abdollahi A(10), Abdoun M(11), Abd-Rabu R(12), Abdulah DM(13), 
Abdullahi A(14), Abebe M(15), Abeldaño Zuñiga RA(16), Abhilash ES(17), Abiodun 
OO(18), Abiodun O(19), Abo Kasem R(20), Aboagye RG(21), Abouzid M(22), Abreu 
LG(23), Abrha WA(24), Abtahi D(25), Abu Rumeileh S(26), Abualhasan A(5), 
Abualruz H(27), Abu-Gharbieh E(28), Abukhadijah HJ(29), Abu-Rmeileh NM(30), 
Aburuz S(31), Abu-Zaid A(32), Acuna JM(33), Adane DE(34), Adane MM(35), Addo 
IY(36), Adedoyin RA(37), Adegboye OA(38), Adekanmbi V(39), Adhikari K(40), 
Adnani QES(41), Adra S(42), Adzigbli LA(43), Afify AY(44), Afolabi AA(45), 
Afrashteh F(46), Afzal MS(47), Afzal S(48), Aghamiri S(49), Agyemang-Duah W(50), 
Ahinkorah BO(51), Ahmad A(52), Ahmad MM(53), Ahmad S(54), Ahmad S(55), Ahmad 
T(56), Ahmadzade AM(57), Ahmed A(58), Ahmed A(59), Ahmed H(60), Ahmed SA(61), 
Ajami M(62), Aji B(63), Akara EM(64), Akinyemi RO(65), Akkaif MA(66), Akrami 
AE(67), Al Awaidy S(68), Al Hamad H(69), Al Hasan SM(70), Al Qadire M(71), Al 
Ta'ani O(72), Al-Ajlouni Y(73), Alalalmeh SO(74), Alalwan TA(75), Al-Aly Z(76), 
Al-Amer RM(77), Aldhaleei WA(78), Aldossary MS(79), Alemohammad SY(80), Al-Fatly 
B(81), Al-Gheethi AAS(82), Alhalaiqa FN(83), Alharrasi M(84), Ali A(85), Ali 
MU(86), Ali R(87), Ali SS(88), Ali W(89), Al-Ibraheem A(90), Alif SM(91), 
Aljunid SM(92), Almahmeed W(93), Al-Marwani S(94), Alomari MA(95), Alonso J(96), 
Alqahtani JS(97), Al-Raddadi RMM(98), Alrawashdeh A(99), Alsabri MA(100), 
Alshahrani NZ(101), Altaany Z(102), Altaf A(103), Al-Tammemi AB(104), Altwalbeh 
D(105), Alvis-Guzman N(106), Alwafi H(107), Al-Wardat M(108), Al-Worafi YM(109), 
Aly H(110), Aly S(111), Alyahya MSI(112), Alzoubi KH(113), Al-Zyoud WA(114), 
Amani R(115), Amegbor PM(116), Amera TG(117), Amin TT(118), Amindarolzarbi 
A(119), Amiri S(120), Amu H(121), Amugsi DA(122), Amusa GA(123), Ancuceanu 
R(124), Anderlini D(125), Angappan D(126), Anil A(127), Ansari MTT(128), 
Ansari-Moghaddam A(129), Ansong R(130), Anvari S(131), Anwar S(132), Anwar 
SL(133), Anyabolo EE(134), Anyasodor AE(135), Apostol GLC(136), Appiah F(137), 
Aqeel M(138), Arabloo J(139), Arabzadeh Bahri R(140), Arafat M(141), Aravkin 
AY(142), Ardekani A(143), Areda D(144), Aregawi BB(145), Aregu GM(146), Aremu 
O(147), Arifin H(148), Ärnlöv J(149), Artamonov AA(150), Arulappan J(151), Aryal 
UR(152), Aryan Z(153), Asbeutah AM(154), Asemahagn MA(155), Asemu MT(156), 
Asghari-Jafarabadi M(157), Ashemo MY(158), Ashraf T(159), Aslani A(160), Asmerom 
HA(161), Astell-Burt T(162), Athari SS(163), Atorkey P(164), Atout MMW(165), 
Atreya A(166), Aujayeb A(167), Ausloos M(168), Avan A(169), Awad H(170), 
Awotidebe AW(171), Ayana LAA(172), Aychiluhm SB(173), Aynalem AA(174), Aynalem 
ZB(175), Azadnajafabad S(176), Azami H(177), Aziz S(178), Azzam AY(179), Babu 
AS(180), Babu GR(181), Badar M(182), Badiye AD(183), Bahrami Taghanaki P(184), 
Bahramian S(185), Bai R(186), Baig AA(187), Bakkannavar SM(188), Bako AT(189), 
Baltatu OC(190), Bam K(191), Banach M(192), Banakar M(193), Bandyopadhyay 
S(194), Banik PC(195), Bansal K(196), Bao Y(197), Barboza MA(198), Bardhan 
M(199), Barengo NC(200), Barker-Collo SL(201), Bärnighausen TW(202), Barqawi 
HJ(42), Barrow A(203), Barua L(195), Bashiri A(204), Bashiru HA(205), Basiru 
A(206), Bastan MM(207), Basu S(208), Basu S(209), Batra K(210), Begde A(211), 
Behnam B(212), Behnoush AH(213), Belayneh MBY(214), Belingheri M(215), Bello 
UM(216), Bennett DA(217), Bensenor IM(218), Berhe FT(219), Bermudez ANC(220), 
Beyene HBB(221), Beyene KA(222), Bhagat DS(223), Bhagavathula AS(224), Bhala 
N(225), Bhalla A(226), Bhardwaj N(227), Bhardwaj P(228), Bhaskar S(229), Bhat 
AN(230), Bhat V(231), Bhatti GK(232), Bhatti JSS(233), Bhuiyan MA(234), Bhusal 
S(235), Bikbov B(236), Bilgin C(237), Biondi A(238), Bishaw KA(239), Biswas 
A(240), Biswas B(241), Bodhare T(242), Bogale EK(243), Boloor A(244), Bonakdar 
Hashemi M(245), Bonny A(246), Bora Basara B(247), Borhany H(248), Bosoka 
SA(249), Bouaoud S(250), Bouyahya A(251), Boyko EJ(252), Bozic MM(253), 
Braithwaite D(254), Breitner S(255), Brenner H(256), Britton G(257), Brunoni 
AR(258), Bryazka D(259), Bugiardini R(260), Bulto LN(261), Burkart K(262), 
Bustanji Y(263), Butt ZA(264), Caetano Dos Santos FL(265), Cámera LA(266), 
Campos LA(267), Campos-Nonato IR(268), Cao F(269), Capodici A(270), Cárdenas 
R(271), Carr S(272), Carreras G(273), Carvalho AF(274), Carvalho F(275), 
Castaldelli-Maia JM(276), Castañeda-Orjuela CA(277), Castelpietra G(278), 
Catapano AL(279), Cattaruzza MS(280), Cegolon L(281), Cembranel F(282), Cenko 
E(260), Cerin E(283), Chadwick J(284), Chakraborty C(285), Chakraborty S(286), 
Chan JSK(287), Chandika RM(288), Chandrasekar EK(289), Chanie GS(290), Chattu 
VK(291), Chaudhary AA(292), Chaurasia A(293), Chen H(294), Chen M(295), Chen 
S(296), Chi G(297), Chichagi F(298), Chimoriya R(299), Ching PR(300), Chitheer 
A(301), Cho SMJ(302), Choi DW(303), Chong B(304), Chong CL(305), Chopra H(306), 
Choudhari SG(307), Choudhary R(308), Chu DT(309), Chukwu IS(310), Chung SC(311), 
Cindi Z(312), Cioffi I(313), Cogen RM(259), Columbus A(314), Costanzo S(315), 
Couto RAS(316), Criqui MH(317), Cruz-Martins N(318), Cuadra-Hernández SM(319), 
da Silva AG(320), Dadana S(321), Dadras O(322), Dai X(262), Dalal K(323), Dalli 
LL(324), Damiani G(325), D'Amico E(326), Dandona L(327), Dandona R(328), Darwish 
AH(329), Das S(330), Dashti M(331), Dashtkoohi M(332), Dashtkoohi M(333), 
Dastmardi M(334), Davletov K(335), De la Cruz-Góngora V(336), DeAngelo S(337), 
Debele AT(338), Debopadhaya S(339), Delgado-Enciso I(340), Demessa BH(341), 
Demetriades AK(342), Denova-Gutiérrez E(268), Dervišević E(343), Desai HD(344), 
Desale AT(156), Desta F(345), Devanbu VGC(346), Devegowda D(347), Dewan 
SMR(348), Dhane AS(349), Dhimal M(350), Dhulipala VR(351), Diaz MJ(352), Diress 
M(353), Dodangeh M(46), Doegah PT(354), Dohare S(355), Doheim MF(356), Dokova 
KG(357), Dongarwar D(358), D'Oria M(359), Doshi OP(360), Doshi RP(361), Douiri 
A(362), Dowou RK(43), Dsouza AC(363), Dsouza HL(364), Dsouza VS(365), Duncan 
BB(366), Duraes AR(367), Dziedzic AM(368), Ekholuenetale M(369), El Bayoumy 
IF(370), El Sayed Zaki M(371), Elbarazi I(372), El-Dahiyat F(373), Elgendy 
IY(374), Elhadi M(375), El-Huneidi W(376), Elmonem MA(377), Elmoselhi AB(378), 
Eltaha C(379), Emeto TI(380), Esezobor CI(381), Esfandiari N(382), Esmaeili 
Z(383), Esposito F(384), Etoom M(108), Fabin N(385), Fadhil I(386), Fagbamigbe 
AF(387), Fagbule OF(388), Faghani S(389), Fahim A(390), Fakhradiyev IR(391), 
Falzone L(392), Fareed M(393), Fares J(394), Farinha CSES(395), Faris MEM(396), 
Faris PS(397), Farjoud Kouhanjani M(398), Faro A(399), Farrokhpour H(400), 
Fasanmi AO(401), Fauk NK(402), Fazeli P(403), Fazylov T(404), Feizkhah A(405), 
Fekadu G(406), Feng X(407), Fereshtehnejad SM(408), Ferrara P(409), Ferreira 
N(410), Fetensa G(411), Feyisa BR(412), Fischer F(413), Flor LS(262), Foley 
KM(414), Fonseca AC(415), Foroumadi R(416), Foroutan B(417), Fortuna D(418), 
Foschi M(419), Franklin RC(420), Fridayani NKY(421), G S(422), Gaal PA(423), 
Gaidhane AM(424), Gaipov A(425), Galali Y(426), Gallus S(427), Gandhi AP(428), 
Ganesan B(429), Gasevic D(430), Gautam P(431), Gautam RK(432), Gebregergis 
MW(433), Gebrehiwot M(434), Gebrekidan KG(435), Getacher L(436), Getahun 
GK(437), Getie M(438), Ghadimi DJ(439), Ghadirian F(440), Ghaffari Jolfayi 
A(441), Ghafourifard M(442), Ghasemi MR(443), Ghasemzadeh A(331), Ghazy RM(444), 
Gholami E(445), Gholami Z(446), Ghozy S(447), Giannoni Luza S(448), Gilani 
JA(449), Gill TK(450), Gillum RF(451), Gindaba EZ(452), Gnedovskaya EV(453), 
Goel A(454), Goldust M(455), Golechha M(456), Goleij P(457), Golinelli D(458), 
Gona PN(459), Gorini G(460), Goulart AC(461), Goulart BNG(366), Gouravani 
M(462), Grivna M(463), Grosso G(464), Grover A(465), Guan SY(466), Guarducci 
G(467), Guha A(468), Guicciardi S(469), Gulati S(470), Gunawardane DA(471), Guo 
C(472), Guo Z(473), Gupta AK(474), Gupta B(475), Gupta M(476), Gupta R(477), 
Gupta RD(478), Gupta R(479), Gupta S(480), Habibzadeh F(481), Hadi NR(482), 
Haghani Dogahe M(483), Haghi-Aminjan H(484), Haghmorad D(485), Haj-Mirzaian 
A(486), Halimi A(487), Hamdy NM(488), Hamidi S(489), Hamilton EB(259), Hanif 
A(490), Hanifi N(491), Hankey GJ(492), Hannan MA(493), Haq ZA(494), Hargono 
A(495), Harlianto NI(496), Haro JM(497), Has EMM(498), Hasaballah AI(499), Hasan 
I(500), Hasnain MS(501), Hassan I(502), Hassan Zadeh Tabatabaei MS(503), Haubold 
J(504), Havmoeller RJ(505), Hay SI(262), Hbid Y(506), Hebert JJ(507), Hegazi 
OE(74), Heidari M(508), Hemmati M(509), Heyi DZ(510), Hezam K(511), Hiraike 
Y(512), Hoan NQ(513), Holla R(514), Horita N(515), Hossain MM(516), Hosseinzadeh 
H(517), Hosseinzadeh M(518), Hosseinzadeh Adli A(519), Hostiuc M(520), Hostiuc 
S(521), Hu B(522), Hu C(523), Huang J(524), Humayun A(525), Hussain S(526), Huy 
LD(527), Huynh HH(528), Hwang BF(529), Ibitoye SE(530), Ikeda N(531), Ikiroma 
A(532), Ilesanmi OS(533), Ilic IM(534), Ilic MD(535), Imam MT(536), Immurana 
M(354), Inbaraj LR(537), Iqhrammullah M(538), Iradukunda A(539), Irham LM(540), 
Islam MR(541), Ismail F(542), Ismail NE(543), Iso H(544), Isola G(238), Itumalla 
R(545), Iwagami M(546), Iwu CDC(547), J V(422), Jaafari J(548), Jacob L(549), 
Jafarzadeh A(550), Jahrami H(551), Jain A(552), Jain N(553), Jairoun AA(554), 
Jaiswal A(555), Jakovljevic M(556), Jalilzadeh Yengejeh R(557), Janakiraman 
B(558), Jatau AI(559), Jayapal SK(560), Jayaram S(561), Jee SH(562), Jeganathan 
J(230), Jegnie M(563), Jema AT(345), Jeswani BM(564), Jeyakumar A(565), Jha 
AK(566), Jha RP(567), Ji Z(568), Jiang H(569), Jin S(570), Jin Y(571), Jokar 
M(572), Jonas JB(573), Joo T(574), Jose J(575), Joseph N(575), Joshua CE(576), 
Joukar F(577), Jozwiak JJ(578), Jürisson M(579), Kabir A(10), Kabir MA(580), 
Kabir Z(581), Kadashetti V(582), Kalani R(583), Kalra S(584), Kamal VK(585), 
Kamireddy A(586), Kan H(587), Kanaan M(588), Kandel H(589), Kanmodi KK(590), 
Kantar RS(591), Kapoor N(592), Karakasis P(593), Karaye IM(594), Karch A(595), 
Karimi H(462), Karimi SE(596), Karimi Y(597), Karimi Behnagh A(598), Karki 
P(599), Kasraei H(600), Kauppila JH(601), Kaur H(602), Kaydi N(603), Kayode 
GA(604), Kazemi F(605), Kazemian S(606), Kesse-Guyot E(607), Khader YS(608), 
Khafaie MA(609), Khaing IK(610), Khajuria H(611), Khalaji A(400), Khalid N(612), 
Khalil AA(613), Khan A(614), Khan F(615), Khan MN(616), Khan M(355), Khan 
MJ(617), Khan MA(618), Khan YH(619), Khanmohammadi S(620), Khatab K(621), 
Khatatbeh H(622), Khatatbeh MM(623), Khateri S(624), Khatib MN(625), Khayamzadeh 
M(626), Khayat Kashani HR(627), Khidri FF(628), Khokhar M(629), Khosla AA(630), 
Khosravi M(631), Khubchandani J(632), Kian S(633), Kim K(634), Kim MS(635), Kim 
YJ(636), Kimokoti RW(637), Kisa A(638), Kisa S(639), Kolahi AA(640), Koly 
KN(641), Kompani F(642), Kondlahalli SKM(643), Korja M(644), Korshunov VA(645), 
Korzh O(646), Kosen S(647), Kostev K(648), Kothari N(649), Kotnis AL(650), 
Koulmane Laxminarayana SL(651), Krishan K(652), Krishna V(653), Krishnamoorthy 
V(654), Krishnan B(655), Kruja J(656), Kuate Defo B(657), Kucuk Bicer B(658), 
Kuddus MA(659), Kuddus M(660), Kugbey N(661), Kulimbet M(662), Kulkarni V(663), 
Kumar A(664), Kumar A(665), Kumar D(666), Kumar GA(667), Kumar N(575), Kumar 
R(668), Kumaran D S(180), Kundu A(669), Kundu S(670), Kunutsor SK(671), Kurmi 
OP(672), Kusuma D(673), Kutikuppala LVS(674), Kuttikkattu A(675), Kytö V(676), 
La Vecchia C(677), Lacey B(678), Lahariya C(679), Lal DK(680), Lallukka T(681), 
Lám J(682), Landires I(683), Larsson AO(684), Lasrado S(685), Latifinaibin 
K(686), Lauriola P(687), Lavados PM(688), Lawal BK(689), Le LKD(690), Le 
NHH(691), Le TTT(692), Le TDT(693), Lee PH(694), Lee SW(695), Lee WC(696), Lee 
YH(697), Li MC(698), Li W(699), Li X(700), Li Y(701), Lim LL(702), Lim SS(262), 
Lin JC(703), Lindholm D(704), Linn S(705), Liu G(706), Liu R(707), Liu S(708), 
Liu X(709), Liu X(710), Llanaj E(711), Lo CH(712), Lo WD(713), Lohner V(714), 
López-Gil JF(715), Lorenzovici L(716), Lorkowski S(717), Lotufo PA(718), 
Lucchetti G(719), Luo L(720), Lusk JB(721), Ma ZF(722), Machoy M(723), 
Madadizadeh F(724), Maddison R(725), Mahmoudi E(383), Mahmoudvand G(726), Makram 
OM(727), Malakan Rad E(728), Malhotra K(729), Malik AA(730), Malik I(731), 
Mallhi TH(619), Malta DC(732), Mamun AA(733), Manla Y(734), Mansouri MH(735), 
Mansouri P(383), Mansouri V(736), Mansournia MA(737), Mantovani LG(738), Manu 
E(121), Marateb HR(739), Marjani A(740), Martini D(313), Martini S(741), 
Martorell M(742), Maryam S(743), Marzo RR(744), Masrie A(745), Mathangasinghe 
Y(746), Maulik PK(747), Mayeli M(462), Mazidi M(748), McKee M(749), McPhail 
SM(750), Mechili EA(751), Mehmood A(752), Mehrabani-Zeinabad K(753), Mekene Meto 
T(754), Meles HN(755), Mendoza W(756), Menezes RG(757), Mensah GA(758), Meo 
SA(759), Meretoja A(760), Meretoja TJ(761), Mestrovic T(762), Mettananda 
CDK(763), Miazgowski T(764), Michalek IM(765), Micheletti Gomide Nogueira de Sá 
AC(732), Minervini G(766), Minh LHN(767), Mini GK(768), Mirghafourvand M(769), 
Mirica A(770), Mirrakhimov EM(771), Mirza-Aghazadeh-Attari M(772), Mishra 
M(773), Misra S(774), Mithra P(575), Mohamed AI(775), Mohamed J(776), Mohamed 
NS(777), Mohammad AM(778), Mohammadi E(779), Mohammadi S(780), Mohammadi S(462), 
Mohammadian-Hafshejani A(781), Mohammadzadeh I(782), Mohammed H(117), Mohammed 
M(783), Mohammed S(784), Mohammed S(785), Mokdad AH(262), Molavi Vardanjani 
H(786), Molokhia M(787), Momani S(788), Monasta L(789), Moni MA(790), Montazeri 
F(791), Moodi Ghalibaf A(792), Moosazadeh M(793), Moradi M(794), Moradi Y(795), 
Moraga P(796), Morawska L(797), Moreira RS(798), Morrison SD(799), Mosaddeghi 
Heris R(800), Mossialos E(801), Mousavi P(802), Msherghi A(803), Mubarik S(804), 
Muccioli L(805), Mulita A(806), Muniyandi M(807), Munjal K(808), Murillo-Zamora 
E(809), Muthu S(810), Myung W(811), Nabavi A(812), Nabhan AF(813), Nafei A(814), 
Nagarajan AJ(815), Naghavi P(816), Naik GR(817), Naik G(818), Naimzada MD(819), 
Nair S(820), Nair TS(821), Najdaghi S(822), Najmuldeen HHR(823), Nakhostin 
Ansari N(824), Nangia V(825), Narasimha Swamy S(826), Nargus S(490), Narimani 
Davani D(827), Nascimento BR(828), Nascimento GG(829), Nasrollahizadeh A(830), 
Nasrollahizadeh A(831), Natto ZS(832), Nauman J(833), Navaratna SNK(834), Nayak 
BP(611), Nayak VC(835), Nazri-Panjaki A(836), Ndejjo R(837), Negoi I(838), Negoi 
RI(839), Nejadghaderi SA(840), Nejjari C(841), Nematollahi MH(842), Nepal 
S(843), Newton CRJ(844), Nguyen DH(845), Nguyen DH(846), Nguyen HTH(847), Nguyen 
HQ(848), Nguyen NNY(849), Nguyen PT(850), Nguyen VT(851), Niazi RK(852), Nigatu 
YT(853), Nikravangolsefid N(854), Ningrum DNA(855), Nnaji CA(856), Nnyanzi 
LA(857), Nomura S(858), Noor STA(859), Norrving B(860), Nawsherwan N(861), 
Noubiap JJ(862), Nri-Ezedi CA(863), Ntaios G(864), Ntsekhe M(865), Nugen F(866), 
Nurchis MC(867), Nurrika D(868), Nzoputam CI(869), Nzoputam OJ(870), Oancea 
B(871), Obamiro KO(872), Odetokun IA(873), O'Donnell MJ(874), Oguta JO(875), Oh 
IH(876), Ojo-Akosile TR(877), Okati-Aliabad H(878), Okeke SR(879), Okekunle 
AP(880), Okidi L(881), Okonji OC(882), Oladnabi M(883), Olagunju AT(884), Olaiya 
MT(191), Olalusi OV(885), Olasehinde TA(886), Olasupo OO(887), Olatubi MI(888), 
Oliveira AB(889), Oliveira GMM(890), Olorukooba AA(891), Olufadewa II(892), 
Oluwafemi YDD(893), Oluwatunase GO(894), Omar HA(895), Omar Bali A(896), O'Neil 
AE(274), Ong SK(897), Onwujekwe OE(898), Opejin AO(899), Ordak M(900), Ornello 
R(901), Ortega-Altamirano DV(319), Ortiz A(902), Ortiz-Prado E(903), Osman 
WMS(904), Osuagwu UL(905), Otstavnov SS(906), Owolabi MO(907), Oyeyemi IT(908), 
Ozair A(909), P A MP(910), Pacheco-Barrios K(911), Padron-Monedero A(912), 
Padubidri JR(913), Palicz T(574), Palma-Alvarez RF(914), Pan F(915), Panda-Jonas 
S(916), Pande Katare D(917), Pandey A(667), Pandey A(918), Pandi-Perumal 
SR(919), Panos LD(920), Pantazopoulos I(921), Papadopoulou P(922), Pardhan 
S(923), Parija PP(924), Parikh RR(925), Parsons N(926), Passera R(927), 
Patoulias D(928), Paudel U(929), Pawar S(930), Peden AE(931), Pedersini P(932), 
Peprah P(933), Pereira MO(934), Peres MFP(935), Perianayagam A(936), Perico 
N(937), Perna S(75), Pestell RG(938), Petcu IR(770), Petermann-Rocha FE(939), 
Pham HN(940), Pham HT(941), Phillips MR(942), Pilgrim T(943), Piradov MA(944), 
Pirouzpanah S(945), Plotnikov E(946), Poddighe D(947), Poluru R(948), Popovic 
DS(949), Postma MJ(950), Pourshams A(736), Pourtaheri N(951), Pradhan J(952), 
Pradhan PMS(953), Prakash V(954), Prasad M(955), Prates EJS(732), Pribadi 
DRA(956), Puvvula J(957), Qattea I(958), Qian G(708), Qiao Y(959), Raggi A(960), 
Raghav PR(961), Raghuveer P(962), Rahim F(963), Rahim MJ(964), Rahimifard 
M(965), Rahimi-Movaghar V(503), Rahman MM(966), Rahman MHU(967), Rahman M(966), 
Rahman MA(968), Rahmani AM(969), Rahmanian M(970), Rahmanian N(971), Rahmanian 
V(972), Rahmati R(973), Rahmawaty S(974), Raj GM(975), Rajaa S(976), Rajendran 
V(422), Rajpoot PL(977), Rajput P(978), Ram P(979), Ramadan MM(980), Ramadan 
M(981), Ramanarayanan V(982), Ramasamy SK(983), Ramazanu S(984), Rana J(985), 
Rana K(986), Rana RK(987), Ranabhat CL(988), Rancic N(989), Rane A(990), Ranta 
A(991), Rao M(992), Rao SJ(993), Rashedi S(994), Rashidi MM(995), 
Rasouli-Saravani A(996), Rathish D(997), Rauniyar SK(998), Rawaf S(999), Razo 
C(259), Reddy MMRK(244), Redwan EMM(1000), Rehman IU(1001), Remuzzi G(937), 
Rezaei N(802), Rezaeian M(1002), Rezazadeh H(1003), Rhee TG(1004), Riaz 
MA(1005), Ribeiro ALP(1006), Rodrigues M(1007), Rodrigues da Silva TPR(1008), 
Rodriguez JAB(1009), Roever L(1010), Romadlon DS(1011), Ross AG(1012), Rout 
HS(1013), Roy B(1014), Roy P(1015), Roy S(1016), Ruela GA(1017), Russo M(1018), 
Rwegerera GM(1019), S N C(1020), Saad AMA(1021), Saber K(1022), Saber-Ayad 
MM(1023), Sabet CJ(1024), Sabour S(1025), Sacco S(1026), Saddik BA(1027), 
Sadeghi E(786), Saeb MR(1028), Saeed U(1029), Safi SZZ(1030), Sagar R(1031), 
Saghafi A(1032), Sagoe D(1033), Saheb Sharif-Askari F(1034), Sahebkar A(1035), 
Sahoo PM(1036), Sahoo SS(1037), Sajid MR(1038), Salami AA(1039), Salaroli 
LB(1040), Saleh MA(1041), Salem MZY(1042), Salum GA(1043), Samadzadeh S(1044), 
Samargandy S(98), Samodra YL(1045), Samuel VP(1046), Samy AM(1047), Sanabria 
J(1048), Santos IS(1049), Santric-Milicevic MM(1050), Sarasmita MA(1051), 
Saravanan A(1052), Sarikhani Y(1053), Sarode GS(1054), Sarode SC(1054), Satpathy 
M(1055), Sattouf Z(1056), Saya GK(1057), Sayeed MA(1058), Sayyah M(1059), 
Scarmeas N(1060), Schaarschmidt BM(1061), Schlaich MP(1062), Schmidt MI(366), 
Schneider IJC(1063), Schuermans A(1064), Schumacher AE(259), Schutte AE(1065), 
Schwebel DC(1066), Selvaraj S(1067), Sen P(1068), Senapati S(233), 
Senthilkumaran S(1069), Sergindo MT(1070), Sethi Y(1071), Seylani A(1072), 
Shafie M(1073), Shah PA(1074), Shahabi S(143), Shahbandi A(1075), Shahid 
S(1076), Shahsavari HR(1077), Shahwan MJ(1078), Shaikh MA(1079), Shalash 
AS(1080), Shamim MA(1081), Shams-Beyranvand M(1082), Shamsi A(1083), 
Shamsutdinova A(1084), Shanawaz M(977), Shannawaz M(1085), Sharath M(363), 
Sharifan A(1086), Sharifi A(1087), Sharifi-Rad J(1088), Sharma A(1089), Sharma 
M(1090), Sharma S(1091), Sharma U(233), Sharma V(1092), Sheikhi RA(1093), Shetty 
A(1094), Shetty M(1095), Shetty PK(1096), Shiferaw D(1097), Shigematsu M(1098), 
Shimels T(1099), Shin MJ(1100), Shiri R(1101), Shittu A(1102), Shitu AO(1103), 
Shiue I(1104), Shorofi SA(1105), Shrestha S(1106), Shuval K(1107), Si Y(1108), 
Siddig EE(1109), Sikdar M(1110), Silva JP(275), Silva LMLR(1111), Singh A(1112), 
Singh B(1113), Singh G(1114), Singh H(1115), Singh JA(1116), Singh K(1117), 
Singh NP(1118), Singh P(1119), Singh P(1120), Sipilä JOT(1121), Sivakumar 
S(1122), Skryabin VY(1123), Skryabina AA(1124), Sleet DA(1125), Sobia F(977), 
Socea B(1126), Sohag AAM(1127), Solanki R(1128), Solanki S(1129), Solomon 
Y(1130), Song Y(1131), Soraneh S(1132), Sorensen RJD(1133), Sotoudeh H(1134), 
Soyiri IN(1135), Spartalis M(1136), Sreeramareddy CT(1137), Srinivasamurthy 
SK(1138), Stachteas P(1139), Stafford LK(259), Stark BA(259), Starodubova 
AV(1140), Subedi N(1141), Subramaniyan V(1142), Suleman M(1143), Sultana 
A(1144), Sun Z(1145), Sundström J(1146), Suresh V(1147), Susanty S(1148), Swain 
CK(1149), Szarpak L(1150), T Y SS(1151), Tabaee Damavandi P(1152), 
Tabarés-Seisdedos R(1153), Tabatabaei SM(1154), Tabatabai S(1155), Tabche 
C(1156), Tabish M(1157), Tadakamadla J(1158), Tadakamadla SK(1159), Taheri 
A(1160), Taiba J(1161), Talaat IM(1162), Talukder A(1163), Tampa M(1164), Tamuzi 
JL(1165), Tan KK(1166), Tang H(1167), Tanwar M(1134), Tarigan IU(1168), Tarkang 
EE(1169), Tat NY(1170), Tavangar SM(1171), Tehrani-Banihashemi A(1172), Teimoori 
M(1173), Temsah MH(1174), Temsah RMH(1175), Teramoto M(1176), Tesfamariam 
WB(1177), Tesfaye Gta EG(1178), Thakur R(1179), Thangaraju P(1180), Thapa 
R(1181), Thapar R(575), Thayakaran R(1182), Thirunavukkarasu S(1183), Thomas 
J(1184), Thomas NKK(1185), Thrift AG(1186), Tian J(915), Tichopad A(1187), 
Ticoalu JHV(1188), Tiruneh C(1189), Tiwari K(1081), Tiyuri A(1190), Tonelli 
M(1191), Topor-Madry R(1192), Tovani-Palone MR(1193), Trabelsi K(1194), Tran 
NH(1195), Tran TH(1196), Tran Minh Duc N(1197), Trico D(1198), Tromans SJ(1199), 
Truyen TTTT(1200), Tsai DH(1201), Tsatsakis A(1202), Tsermpini EE(1203), Turuse 
EAA(1204), Tyrovolas S(1205), Udoakang AJ(908), Udoh A(1206), Ullah A(1207), 
Ullah S(1208), Umair M(1209), Umar M(1210), Unim B(1211), Unnikrishnan B(992), 
Urso D(1212), Usman JS(1213), Vacante M(1214), Vahabi SM(1215), Vahdati S(1216), 
Vaithinathan AG(1217), Vakili O(1218), Valizadeh R(1132), Van den Eynde J(1219), 
Varga O(1220), Varthya SB(1081), Vasankari TJ(1221), Vellingiri B(1222), 
Venketasubramanian N(1223), Verma M(1037), Veroux M(326), Verras GI(1224), 
Vervoort D(1225), Villafañe JH(1226), Villani S(1227), Vinayak M(1228), 
Viskadourou M(1229), Volovat SR(1230), Volovici V(1231), Wafa HA(362), Waheed 
Y(1232), Wahood W(1233), Wang C(1234), Wang F(1235), Wang S(1236), Wang S(1237), 
Wang Y(1238), Wang YP(276), Wanjau MN(1239), Waqas M(1240), Wassie EG(1241), 
Wassie GT(1242), Wei Z(1243), Weintraub RG(1244), Weldetinsaa HL(755), 
Wickramasinghe DP(1245), Wickramasinghe ND(1246), Wijeratne T(1247), Willeit 
P(1248), Wolfe CDA(1249), Wong YJ(1250), Wongsin U(1251), Wu C(1252), Wu 
F(1253), Wu Y(1254), Wu Z(1255), Xiao H(1256), Xu S(1257), Xu X(1258), Yamagishi 
K(1259), Yang D(1260), Yano Y(1261), Yarahmadi A(1262), Yaribeygi H(1263), 
Yasufuku Y(1264), Yatsuya H(1265), Yazdanpanah F(1266), Yazdanpanah MH(736), Ye 
P(1267), Yesodharan R(1268), Yezli S(1269), Yi S(1270), Yi X(1271), Yin D(1272), 
Yon DK(1273), Yonemoto N(1274), Yu C(1275), Yu EA(1276), Yun K(1277), Yusuf 
H(1278), Zadey S(1279), Zafari N(1280), Zaman BA(1281), Zaman SB(1282), Zanghì 
A(1283), Zare I(1284), Zarimeidani F(1285), Zarrintan A(1286), Zastrozhin 
M(1287), Zemedikun D(1288), Zeng Y(1289), Zhang B(66), Zhang H(1290), Zhang 
L(1291), Zhang Y(1292), Zhang Z(1293), Zhao H(1294), Zhong CC(1295), Zhou 
SC(1296), Zhu B(1297), Zhu L(1298), Zhumagaliuly A(1299), Ziafati M(1300), 
Zielińska M(1301), Zikarg YT(1302), Zoghi G(1303), Zyoud SH(1304), Zyoud 
SH(1078), Johnson CO(259), Roth GA(1305), Nair BS(1306), Rautalin I(1307), Bhati 
A(1306), Bisignano C(259), Vos T(262), Murray CJL(262).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Stroke and Applied Neurosciences, Auckland University 
of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand; Institute for Health Metrics and 
Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA; Research Center of 
Neurology, Moscow, Russia. Electronic address: valery.feigin@aut.ac.nz.
(2)Department of Nursing, Woldia University, Woldia, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Clinical Governance and Quality Improvement, Aleta Wondo 
General Hospital, Aleta Wondo, Ethiopia.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(5)Department of Neurology, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.
(6)Department of Mathematics and Sciences, Ajman University, Ajman, United Arab 
Emirates.
(7)Department of Surgery, Marshall University, Huntington, WV, USA.
(8)Department of Tropical Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Tanta University, 
Tanta, Egypt.
(9)Department of Medicine, Memorial University, St. John's, NL, Canada.
(10)Minimally Invasive Surgery Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(11)Department of Medicine, University of Setif Algeria, Sétif, Algeria; 
Department of Health, Sétif, Algeria.
(12)Evidence-Based Practice Center (EBP), Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(13)Community and Maternity Nursing Unit, University of Duhok, Duhok, Iraq.
(14)Department of Physiotherapy, Bayero University Kano, Kano, Nigeria; 
Department of Physiotherapy, Federal University Wukari, Wukari, Nigeria.
(15)Department of Midwifery, Dilla University, Dilla, Ethiopia.
(16)Postgraduate Department, University of Sierra Sur, Miahuatlan de Porfirio 
Diaz, Mexico; Yhteiskuntadatatieteen Keskus (Center for Social Data Science), 
University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(17)Department of Botany, Sree Narayana Guru College Chelannur, Kozhikode, 
India.
(18)Department of Internal Medicine, Federal Medical Centre, Abuja, Nigeria.
(19)Department of Community Medicine, Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo, Nigeria.
(20)Department of Neurosurgery, Medical University of South Carolina, 
Charleston, SC, USA; Department of Surgery, Damascus University, Damascus, 
Syria.
(21)Department of Family and Community Health, University of Health and Allied 
Sciences, Ho, Ghana.
(22)Department of Physical Pharmacy and Pharmacokinetics, Poznan University of 
Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland.
(23)Department of Pediatric Dentistry of the School of Dentistry, Federal 
University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(24)Department of Adult Health Nursing, Aksum University, Aksum, Ethiopia.
(25)Department of Anesthesiology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(26)Department of Neurology, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle 
(Saale), Germany.
(27)Department of Nursing, Al Zaytoonah University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan.
(28)Department of Biopharmaceutics and Clinical Pharmacy, The University of 
Jordan, Amman, Jordan; Clinical Sciences Department, University of Sharjah, 
Sharjah, United Arab Emirates.
(29)Academic Health System, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar.
(30)Institute of Community and Public Health, Birzeit University, Ramallah, 
Palestine.
(31)Department of Therapeutics, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United 
Arab Emirates; School of Pharmacy, The University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan.
(32)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, Alfaisal University, 
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; College of Graduate Health Sciences, University of 
Tennessee, Memphis, TN, USA.
(33)Department of Clinical Medicine, American University of Antigua, Coolidge, 
Antigua and Barbuda; FIU Robert Stempel College of Public Health & Social Work, 
Florida International University, Miami, FL, USA.
(34)Department of Anesthesia and Critical Care, Debre Tabor University, Debre 
Tabor, Ethiopia.
(35)College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, 
Ethiopia.
(36)School of Medicine, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Centre for 
Social Research in Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(37)Department of Medical Rehabilitation, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, 
Nigeria.
(38)Menzies School of Health Research, Charles Darwin University, Darwin, NT, 
Australia.
(39)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Texas Medical Branch, 
Galveston, TX, USA.
(40)Department of Community Medicine, Tribhuvan University, Bharatpur, Nepal; 
Public Health Section, Himalayan Environment and Public Health Network (HEPHN), 
Chitwan, Nepal.
(41)Department of Public Health, Universitas Padjadjaran (Padjadjaran 
University), Bandung, Indonesia.
(42)Clinical Sciences Department, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab 
Emirates.
(43)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Health and 
Allied Sciences, Ho, Ghana.
(44)Department of Internal Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.
(45)Technical Services Directorate, MSI Nigeria Reproductive Choices, Abuja, 
Nigeria.
(46)School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(47)Department of Life Sciences, University of Management and Technology, 
Lahore, Pakistan.
(48)Department of Community Medicine, King Edward Memorial Hospital, Lahore, 
Pakistan; Department of Public Health, Public Health Institute, Lahore, 
Pakistan.
(49)Department of Biotechnology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(50)Department of Geography and Planning, Queen's University, Kingston, ON, 
Canada.
(51)School of Public Health, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(52)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Shaqra University, Shaqra, Saudi Arabia.
(53)Clinical Department, The University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan.
(54)Department of Health and Biological Sciences, Abasyn University, Peshawar, 
Pakistan; Department of Natural Sciences, Lebanese American University, Beirut, 
Lebanon.
(55)Department of Medical Oncology, Miami Cancer Institute, Miami, FL, USA; 
Department of Community Medicine and Preventive Health, King Edward Medical 
University Lahore, Lahore, Pakistan.
(56)School of Public Health, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(57)Department of Neuroscience, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 
Iran.
(58)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Riphah Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Islamabad, Pakistan; Division of Infectious Diseases and Global Public 
Health (IDGPH), University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA.
(59)Institute of Endemic Diseases, University of Khartoum, Khartoum, Sudan; 
Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute, University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(60)Department of Biosciences, COMSATS Institute of Information Technology, 
Islamabad, Pakistan.
(61)Brody School of Medicine, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, USA.
(62)National Nutrition and Food Technology Research Institute, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(63)Faculty of Medicine and Public Health, Jenderal Soedirman University, 
Purwokerto, Indonesia.
(64)Moyen Mono Health District, Ministry of Health, Tohoun, Togo.
(65)Institute for Advanced Medical Research and Training, University of Ibadan, 
Ibadan, Nigeria; Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, UK.
(66)Department of Cardiology, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(67)Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine, Midwestern University, Downers 
Grove, IL, USA; Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, 
IL, USA.
(68)Department of Communicable Diseases, Ministry of Health, Muscat, Oman; 
Middle East, Eurasia, and Africa Influenza Stakeholders Network, Muscat, Oman.
(69)Department of Geriatric and Long Term Care, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, 
Qatar; Rumailah Hospital, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar.
(70)Department of Surgery, Washington University in St. Louis, St Louis, MO, 
USA.
(71)Al Al-Bayt University, Mafraq, Jordan.
(72)Department of Internal Medicine, Allegheny Health Network, Pittsburgh, PA, 
USA.
(73)School of Medicine, New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY, USA; Department 
of Epidemiology, Columbia University, New York, USA.
(74)Department of Clinical Sciences, Ajman University, Ajman, United Arab 
Emirates.
(75)Department of Biology, University of Bahrain, Zallaq, Bahrain.
(76)Department of Research and Development, Washington University in St. Louis, 
St Louis, MO, USA; Clinical Epidemiology Center, US Department of Veterans 
Affairs (VA), St Louis, MO, USA.
(77)School of Nursing, Yarmouk University, Irbid, Jordan; School of Nursing and 
Midwifery, Western Sydney University, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(78)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, 
USA.
(79)General Directorate of Research and Studies, Ministry of Health, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.
(80)Robert Stempel College of Public Health and Social Work, Florida 
International University, Miami, FL, USA.
(81)Department of Neurology, Charité Medical University Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(82)Global Centre for Environmental Remediation, University of Newcastle, 
Newcastle, NSW, Australia; Cooperative Research Centre for Contamination 
Assessment and Remediation of the Environment, Newcastle, NSW, Australia.
(83)College of Nursing, Qatar University, Doha, Qatar; Psychological Sciences 
Association, Amman, Jordan.
(84)Adult Health and Critical Care Department, Sultan Qabos University, Alseeb, 
Oman.
(85)Department of Zoology, Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan, Mardan, Pakistan.
(86)Department of Medical Rehabilitation (Physiotherapy), University of 
Maiduguri, Maiduguri, Nigeria; Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Hong Kong 
Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, China.
(87)Department of Biosciences, Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi, India.
(88)Center for Biotechnology and Microbiology, University of Swat, Swat, 
Pakistan.
(89)Department of Geography, Sultan Qaboos University, Muscat, Oman.
(90)Department of Nuclear Medicine, King Hussein Cancer Center, Amman, Jordan; 
Department of Diagnostic Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, The University of 
Jordan, Amman, Jordan.
(91)Institute of Health and Wellbeing, Federation University Australia, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia; School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, 
Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(92)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, International Medical 
University, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; International Centre for Casemix and 
Clinical Coding, National University of Malaysia, Bandar Tun Razak, Malaysia.
(93)Department of Cardiology, Heart, Vascular, and Thoracic Institute, Cleveland 
Clinic Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences Academic Programs, Khalifa University, Abu Dhabi, United Arab 
Emirates.
(94)Department of Dentistry, Independent Consultant, Sana'a, Yemen; Independent 
Consultant, Irbid, Jordan.
(95)Department of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Sciences, Jordan 
University of Science and Technology, Irbid, Jordan; Department of 
Rehabilitation Sciences and Physical Therapy, Jordan University of Science and 
Technology, Irbid, Jordan.
(96)Research Program of Epidemiology and Public Health, Hospital del Mar 
Research Institute Barcelona (IMIM), Barcelona, Spain; Department of 
Experimental and Health Sciences, Biomedical Research Networking Center in 
Epidemiology and Public Health (CiberESP), Barcelona, Spain.
(97)Department of Respiratory Care, Prince Sultan Military College of Health 
Sciences, Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(98)Department of Community Medicine, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi 
Arabia.
(99)Department of Allied Medical Sciences, Jordan University of Science and 
Technology, Irbid, Jordan.
(100)Department of Emergency Medicine, Sana'a University, Sanaa, Yemen; 
Pediatric Emergency Medicine Department, St. Christopher's Hospital for 
Children, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(101)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of Jeddah, Jeddah, 
Saudi Arabia.
(102)Department of Basic Sciences, Yarmouk University, Irbid, Jordan.
(103)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, The University of Lahore, 
Lahore, Pakistan.
(104)Research, Policy, and Training Directorate, Jordan Center for Disease 
Control, Amman, Jordan; Applied Science Research Center, Applied Science Private 
University, Amman, Jordan.
(105)Department of Allied Medical Science, Al-Balqa Applied University, Karak, 
Jordan; Department of Adult Health and Critical Care, Sultan Qaboos University, 
Muscat, Oman.
(106)Research Group in Health Economics, Universidad de Cartagena (University of 
Cartagena), Cartagena, Colombia; Research Group in Hospital Management and 
Health Policies, Universidad de la Costa (University of the Coast), 
Barranquilla, Colombia.
(107)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Umm Al-Qura University, 
Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(108)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Jordan University of Science and 
Technology, Irbid, Jordan.
(109)Department of Medical Sciences, Azal University for Human Development, 
Sana'a, Yemen; Department of Clinical Sciences, University of Science and 
Technology of Fujairah, Fujairah, United Arab Emirates.
(110)Department of Pediatrics, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(111)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA; Department of Pediatrics, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.
(112)Faculty of Medicine, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Irbid, 
Jordan.
(113)Department of Pharmacy Practice and Pharmacotherapeutics, University of 
Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Jordan 
University of Science and Technology, Irbid, Jordan.
(114)Department of Biomedical Engineering, German Jordanian University, Amman, 
Jordan.
(115)Interdisciplinary Graduate Program in Human Toxicology, University of Iowa, 
Iowa City, IA, USA; Health Policy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(116)School of Global Public Health, New York University, New York, NY, USA.
(117)Department of Public Health, Dire Dawa University, Dire Dawa, Ethiopia.
(118)Public Health and Community Medicine Department, Cairo University, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(119)Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(120)Quran and Hadith Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(121)Department of Population and Behavioural Sciences, University of Health and 
Allied Sciences, Ho, Ghana.
(122)Department of Maternal and Child Wellbeing, African Population and Health 
Research Center, Nairobi, Kenya.
(123)Department of Medicine, University of Jos, Jos, Nigeria; Department of 
Internal Medicine, Jos University Teaching Hospital, Jos, Nigeria.
(124)Faculty of Pharmacy, Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Bucharest, Romania.
(125)Centre for Sensorimotor Performance, The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, QLD, Australia; Neurology Department, Royal Brisbane and Women's 
Hospital, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(126)Department of Child Neurology, Oregon Health and Science University, 
Portland, OR, USA.
(127)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Jodhpur, India; All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar, India.
(128)School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham Malaysia, Semenyih, Malaysia.
(129)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Zahedan University of Medical 
Sciences, Zahedan, Iran.
(130)Department of Nursing, University of Massachusetts Boston, Boston, MA, USA.
(131)Regenerative Medicine, Organ Procurement and Transplantation 
Multi-disciplinary Center, Guilan University of Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(132)Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Basic Sciences (CIRBSc), Jamia 
Millia Islamia, New Delhi, India; School of Chemical and Life Sciences (SCLS), 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, India.
(133)Department of Surgery, Gadjah Mada University, Yogyakarta, Indonesia.
(134)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, University of Nigeria Nsukka, 
Enugu, Nigeria; Operations Department, Breast Without Spot, Enugu, Nigeria.
(135)Rural Health Research Institute, Charles Sturt University, Orange, NSW, 
Australia.
(136)School of Medicine and Public Health, Ateneo De Manila University, Pasig 
City, Philippines; Inter-Agency Committee on Environmental Health, Department of 
Health Philippines, Manila, Philippines.
(137)Department of Social Sciences, Berekum College of Education, Berekum, 
Ghana; School of Public Health, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and 
Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.
(138)Department of Psychology, Foundation University Islamabad, Rawalpandi, 
Pakistan; Department of Psychology, Foundation University Islamabad, Rawalpandi, 
Pakistan.
(139)Health Management and Economics Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(140)Urology Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(141)College of Pharmacy, Al Ain University, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(142)Department of Applied Mathematics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
USA; Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA; Department of Health Metrics Sciences, School of Medicine, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(143)Health Policy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran.
(144)College of Art and Science, Ottawa University, Surprise, AZ, USA; School of 
Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, USA.
(145)College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Adigrat University, Adigrat, 
Ethiopia.
(146)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, 
Ethiopia.
(147)Department of Public Health, Birmingham City University, Birmingham, UK.
(148)Faculty of Nursing, Universitas Airlangga (Airlangga University), Surabaya, 
Indonesia.
(149)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska 
Institute, Stockholm, Sweden; School of Health and Social Studies, Dalarna 
University, Falun, Sweden.
(150)Institute for Biomedical Problems, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, 
Russia.
(151)Department of Maternal and Child Health, Sultan Qaboos University, Muscat, 
Oman.
(152)Department of Research, Nepal Health Research Council, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(153)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA; 
Non-communicable Diseases Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(154)Department of Radiologic Sciences, Kuwait University, Sulaibikhat, Kuwait; 
Department of Medical Radiation Sciences, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(155)School of Public Health, Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia.
(156)Department of Public Health, Debre Tabor University, Debre Tabor, Ethiopia.
(157)Cabrini Research, Cabrini Health, Malvern, VIC, Australia; School of Public 
Health and Preventative Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(158)Department of Public Health, Jimma University, Jimma, Ethiopia; Department 
of Public Health, Wachemo University, Hossana, Ethiopia.
(159)University Institute of Radiological Sciences and Medical Imaging 
Technology, The University of Lahore, Lahore, Pakistan.
(160)Department of Aging Research Institute, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(161)School of Medical Laboratory Sciences, Haramaya University, Harar, 
Ethiopia.
(162)School of Architecture, Design, and Planning, University of Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(163)Department of Immunology, Zanjan University of Medical Sciences, Zanjan, 
Iran.
(164)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Newcastle, Newcastle, 
NSW, Australia; Hunter New England Population Health, Wallsend, NSW, Australia.
(165)Faculty of Nursing, Philadelphia University, Amman, Jordan.
(166)Department of Forensic Medicine, Lumbini Medical College, Palpa, Nepal.
(167)Northumbria HealthCare NHS Foundation Trust, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(168)School of Business, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK; Department of 
Statistics and Econometrics, Bucharest University of Economic Studies, 
Bucharest, Romania.
(169)Robarts Research Institute, The University of Western Ontario, London, ON, 
Canada.
(170)Department of Health Sciences, Higher College of Technology, Abu Dhabi, 
United Arab Emirates.
(171)Department of Physiotherapy, Bayero University Kano, Kano, Nigeria; School 
of Nursing and Public Health, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban, South Africa.
(172)Department of Public Health, Wollega University, Nekemte, Ethiopia; 
Department of Health Behavior and Society, Jimma University, Jimma, Ethiopia.
(173)Institute of Public Health, Gondar University, Gondar, Ethiopia; Rural 
Health Research Institute, Charles Sturt University, Orange, NSW, Australia.
(174)School of Nursing, Hawassa University, Hawassa, Ethiopia.
(175)Department of Nursing, Injibara University, Injibara, Ethiopia.
(176)Leeds Institute of Rheumatic and Musculoskeletal Medicine, University of 
Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(177)Department of Medical-Surgical Nursing, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(178)Institute of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, The University of 
Agriculture, Peshawar, Pakistan.
(179)Montefiore-Einstein Cerebrovascular Research Lab, Albert Einstein College 
of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA; Faculty of Medicine, October 6 University, 6th of 
October City, Egypt.
(180)Department of Physiotherapy, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, 
India.
(181)Department of Population Medicine, Qatar University, Doha, Qatar.
(182)Gomal Center of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Gomal University, Dera 
Ismail Khan, Pakistan.
(183)Department of Forensic Science, Government Institute of Forensic Science 
Nagpur, Nagpur, India; Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur University, Nagpur, 
India.
(184)Department of Biostatistics, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(185)School of Medicine, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(186)School of Public Affairs, Nanjing University of Information Science and 
Technology, Nanjing, China.
(187)International Medical School, Management and Science University, Alam, 
Malaysia.
(188)Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Manipal Academy of Higher 
Education, Manipal, India.
(189)Department of Neurosurgery, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, USA.
(190)College of Medicine, Alfaisal University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; Center of 
Innovation, Technology and Education (CITE), Anhembi Morumbi University, São 
José dos Campos, Brazil.
(191)Department of Medicine, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(192)Department of Hypertension, Medical University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland; 
Polish Mothers' Memorial Hospital Research Institute, Lodz, Poland.
(193)Dental Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran; Health Policy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran.
(194)Nuffield Department of Surgical Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, NA, 
UK; Department of Neurosurgery, University of Southampton, Southampton, NA, UK.
(195)Department of Non-communicable Diseases, Bangladesh University of Health 
Sciences, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(196)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, USA; Department of Medicine, Saint Vincent Hospital, Worcester, 
MA, USA.
(197)National Institute on Drug Dependence, Peking University, Beijing, China; 
Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.
(198)Department of Neurosciences, Costa Rican Department of Social Security, San 
Jose, Costa Rica; School of Medicine, University of Costa Rica, San Pedro, Costa 
Rica.
(199)Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, FL, USA.
(200)Department of Translational Medicine, Florida International University, 
Miami, FL, USA.
(201)School of Psychology, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(202)Heidelberg Institute of Global Health (HIGH), Heidelberg University, 
Heidelberg, Germany; T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard University, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(203)Department of Public and Environmental Health, University of The Gambia, 
Banjul, The Gambia; Department of Epidemiology, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA.
(204)Health Information Management, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran.
(205)Department of Animal Sciences, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, 
Nigeria.
(206)Department of Veterinary Physiology and Biochemistry, University of Ilorin, 
Ilorin, Nigeria.
(207)Non-communicable Diseases Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran; School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(208)Center for Primary Care, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA; School of 
Public Health, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(209)Department of Academics, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gurgaon, India.
(210)Department of Medical Education, University of Nevada Las Vegas, Las Vegas, 
NV, USA.
(211)School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences, Loughborough University, 
Loughborough, UK; School of Public Health, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(212)Avicenna Biotech Research, Germantown, MD, USA; Department of Regulatory 
Affairs, Amarex Clinical Research, Germantown, MD, USA.
(213)School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; 
Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center (NCDRC), Tehran, Iran.
(214)Department of Public Health, Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia; 
Department of Public Health, University of South Africa, Pretoria, South Africa.
(215)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Milano - Bicocca, Milano, 
Italy; Direzione Sanitaria (Department of Health Management), Fondazione IRCCS 
San Gerardo dei Tintori, Monza, Italy.
(216)Department of Physiotherapy and Paramedicine, Glasgow Caledonian 
University, Glasgow, UK.
(217)Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(218)Department of Internal Medicine, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(219)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Wollo University, Dessie, 
Ethiopia; School of Medicine and Dentistry, Griffith University, Gold Coast, 
QLD, Australia.
(220)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of the Philippines 
Manila, Manila, Philippines; Department of Epidemiology, Brown University, 
Providence, RI, USA.
(221)Metabolomics Laboratory, Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, 
VIC, Australia; Department of Microbiology, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.
(222)Department of Pharmaceutical and Administrative Sciences, University of 
Health Sciences and Pharmacy in St. Louis, St Louis, MO, USA; School of 
Pharmacy, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(223)Department of Forensic Chemistry, Government Institute of Forensic Science, 
Aurangabad, Aurangabad, India.
(224)Department of Public Health, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND, USA.
(225)Institute of Applied Health Research, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, 
UK; Institute of Applied Health Research, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, 
UK.
(226)Department of Internal Medicine, Post Graduate Institute of Medical 
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
(227)Department of Anatomy, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, 
India.
(228)Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine, All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, India; School of Public Health, All India 
Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, India.
(229)Global Health Neurology Lab, NSW Brain Clot Bank, Sydney, NSW, Australia; 
Division of Cerebrovascular Medicine and Neurology, National Cerebral and 
Cardiovascular Center, Suita, Japan.
(230)Department of General Medicine, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Mangalore, India.
(231)Department of Internal Medicine, St. John's National Academy of Health 
Sciences, Bangalore, India.
(232)Department of Medical Lab Technology, Chandigarh University, Mohali, India.
(233)Department of Human Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Central University of 
Punjab, Bathinda, India.
(234)Department of Pharmacy, University of Asia Pacific, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(235)Department of Surgery, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(236)Scientific-Tools.Org, Bergamo, Italy.
(237)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN, 
USA; Neurovascular Research Laboratory, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, 
Rochester, MN, USA.
(238)Department of General Surgery and Medical-Surgical Specialties, University 
of Catania, Catania, Italy.
(239)Department of Midwifery, Debre Markos University, Debre Markos, Ethiopia.
(240)Department of Neurology, Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and 
Research and Seth Sukhlal Karnani Memorial Hospital, Kolkata, India.
(241)Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine, All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, Deoghar, India.
(242)Department of Community & Family Medicine, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Ramanathapuram, Tamil Nadu, India.
(243)Department of Health Promotion and Behavioural Science, Bahir Dar 
University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia.
(244)Department of Internal Medicine, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Mangalore, India.
(245)Department of Urology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(246)Faculty of Medicine and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Douala, 
Douala, Cameroon; Department of Cardiology, Centre Hospitalier Montfermeil 
(Montfermeil Hospital Center), Montfermeil, France.
(247)General Directorate of Health Information Systems, Ministry of Health, 
Ankara, Turkiye.
(248)Internal Medicine Department, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(249)Disease Surveillance Department, Ghana Health Service, Ho, Ghana; 
Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Health and Allied 
Sciences, Ho, Ghana.
(250)Department of Medicine, University Ferhat Abbas of Setif, Setif, Algeria; 
Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, University Hospital Saadna 
Abdenour, Setif, Algeria.
(251)Department of Biology, Mohammed V University in Rabat, Rabat, Morocco; 
School of Medical and Life Sciences, Sunway University, Sunway, Malaysia.
(252)School of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA; General 
Medicine Service, Department of Veterans Affairs, Seattle, WA, USA.
(253)Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia; University 
Eye Hospital, Clinical Center of Serbia, Belgrade, Serbia.
(254)Department of Epidemiology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; 
Cancer Population Sciences Program, University of Florida Health Cancer Center, 
Gainesville, FL, USA.
(255)Institute for Medical Information Processing, Biometry, and Epidemiology, 
LMU Munich, Neuherberg, Germany; Institute of Epidemiology, Helmholtz Zentrum 
München (German Research Center for Environmental Health), Neuherberg, Germany.
(256)Division of Clinical Epidemiology and Aging Research, German Cancer 
Research Center, Heidelberg, Germany.
(257)Center for Neuroscience, Institute for Scientific Research and High 
Technology Services, Panama City, Panama; Gorgas Memorial Institute for Health 
Studies, Panama City, Panama.
(258)Department of Internal Medicine, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, 
Brazil; Department of Psychiatry, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(259)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(260)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(261)College of Nursing and Health Sciences, Flinders University, Adelaide, SA, 
Australia.
(262)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA; Department of Health Metrics Sciences, School of Medicine, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(263)School of Pharmacy, The University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan; Department of 
Basic Biomedical Sciences, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates.
(264)School of Public Health Sciences, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ON, 
Canada; Al Shifa School of Public Health, Al Shifa Trust Eye Hospital, 
Rawalpindi, Pakistan.
(265)Harvard Business School, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.
(266)Department of Internal Medicine, Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires (Italian 
Hospital of Buenos Aires), Buenos Aires, Argentina; Board of Directors, 
Argentine Society of Medicine, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(267)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Anhembi Morumbi University, Sao Jose 
dos Campos, Brazil; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Center of Innovation, 
Technology and Education (CITE) at São José dos Campos Technology Park, Sao Jose 
dos Campos, Brazil.
(268)Center for Nutrition and Health Research, National Institute of Public 
Health, Cuernavaca, Mexico.
(269)Department of Ophthalmology, Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing, 
China.
(270)Department of Health Management (Direzione Sanitaria), IRCCS Istituto 
Ortopedico Rizzoli, Bologna, Italy; Interdisciplinary Research Center for Health 
Science, Sant'Anna School of Advanced Studies, Pisa, Italy.
(271)Department of Health Care, Metropolitan Autonomous University, Mexico City, 
Mexico.
(272)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.
(273)Institute for Cancer Research, Prevention and Clinical Network, Florence, 
Italy.
(274)Institute for Mental and Physical Health and Clinical Translation (IMPACT), 
Deakin University, Geelong, VIC, Australia.
(275)Research Unit on Applied Molecular Biosciences (UCIBIO), University of 
Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(276)Department of Psychiatry, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(277)Colombian National Health Observatory, Instituto Nacional de Salud, Bogota, 
Colombia; Epidemiology and Public Health Evaluation Group, National University 
of Colombia, Bogota, Colombia.
(278)Centre Neuchatelois de Psychiatrie, Marin Epagnier, Switzerland; Mental 
Health Flagship, World Health Organization (WHO), Copenhagen, Denmark.
(279)Department of Pharmacological and Biomolecular Sciences, University of 
Milan, Milan, Italy; MultiMedica Sesto San Giovanni IRCCS, Sesto San Giovanni, 
Italy.
(280)Department of Public Health and Infectious Diseases, La Sapienza 
University, Rome, Italy.
(281)Department of Medical, Surgical, and Health Sciences, University of 
Trieste, Trieste, Italy; Public Health Unit, University Health Agency 
Giuliano-Isontina (ASUGI), Trieste, Italy.
(282)Department of Nutrition, Federal University of Santa Catarina, 
Florianópolis, Brazil.
(283)Mary MacKillop Institute for Health Research, Australian Catholic 
University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia; School of Public Health, University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(284)Non-communicable Diseases Division, National Institute of Epidemiology, 
Chennai, India.
(285)Department of Biotechnology, Adamas University, Kolkata, India; Institute 
for Skeletal Aging & Orthopedic Surgery, Hallym University, Chuncheon, South 
Korea.
(286)State Disease Investigation Laboratory, Animal Resources Development 
Department, Agartala, India.
(287)Cardio-Oncology Research Unit, Cardiovascular Analytics Group, Hong Kong, 
China.
(288)Department of Clinical Nutrition, Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(289)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, University of 
Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA.
(290)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(291)Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
Department of Community Medicine, Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Sawangi, India.
(292)Department of Biology, Al-Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic University, 
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(293)Oral Medicine and Radiology, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, 
India.
(294)Clinical Research Center, Zhujiang hospital of Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(295)Department of Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, Shanghai, China.
(296)Heidelberg Institute of Global Health (HIGH), Heidelberg University, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(297)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.
(298)Department of Scientific Research, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(299)Translational Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia; Westmead Clinical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(300)Division of Infectious Diseases, Virginia Commonwealth University, 
Richmond, VA, USA.
(301)Iraq Field Epidemiology Training Program (I-FETP), Ministry of Health, 
Baghdad, Iraq.
(302)Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and 
Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA; Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(303)Cancer Big Data Center, National Cancer Center, Goyang, South Korea.
(304)Department of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(305)RIPAS Hospital, University of Brunei Darussalam, BSB, Brunei.
(306)Centre for Research Impact & Outcome, Chitkara University, Rajpura, India.
(307)Department of Community Medicine, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Wardha, 
India.
(308)Department of Cardiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, 
India.
(309)Center for Biomedicine and Community Health, International School, Vietnam 
National University Hanoi (VNUIS), Hanoi, Vietnam.
(310)Department of Paediatric Surgery, Federal Medical Centre, Umuahia, Nigeria.
(311)Department of Health Informatics, University College London, London, UK; 
Health Data Research UK, London, UK.
(312)Department of Genetics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(313)Department of Food, Environmental and Nutritional Sciences, University of 
Milan, Milan, Italy.
(314)Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(315)Department of Epidemiology and Prevention, IRCCS Neuromed, Pozzilli, Italy.
(316)Department of Chemical Sciences, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(317)Department of Family Medicine and Public Health, University of California 
San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(318)Department of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Technologies, Cooperativa de 
Ensino Superior Politécnico e Universitário (Polytechnic and University Higher 
Education Cooperative), Vila Nova de Famalicão, Portugal; Institute for Research 
and Innovation in Health (i3S), University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(319)Center for Health Systems Research, National Institute of Public Health, 
Cuernavaca, Mexico.
(320)School of Nursing, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, 
Brazil.
(321)Department of Internal Medicine, Cheyenne Regional Medical Center, 
Cheyenne, WY, USA.
(322)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway; Iranian Research Center for HIV/AIDS (IRCHA), Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(323)Institute for Health Sciences, Mid Sweden University, Sundsvall, Sweden.
(324)Stroke and Ageing Research Group, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, 
Australia.
(325)IRCCS Istituto Ortopedico Galeazzi, University of Milan, Milan, Italy; 
Department of Dermatology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(326)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences and Advanced Technologies "GF 
Ingrassia", University of Catania, Catania, Italy.
(327)Public Health Foundation of India, Gurugram, India; Institute for Health 
Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA; Indian 
Council of Medical Research, New Delhi, India.
(328)Public Health Foundation of India, Gurugram, India; Institute for Health 
Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA; Department 
of Health Metrics Sciences, School of Medicine, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(329)Department of Pediatrics, Tanta University, Tanta, Egypt.
(330)Department of Biochemistry, Ministry of Health and Welfare, New Delhi, 
India.
(331)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(332)Department of obstetrics and Gynecology, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Vali-E-Asr 
Reproductive Health Research Center, Tehran, Iran.
(333)Department of Neurology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran; Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Research Program, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(334)Department of Radiology, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(335)Health Research Institute, Kazakh National Medical University, Almaty, 
Kazakhstan.
(336)Center for Evaluation and Surveys Research, National Institute of Public 
Health, Cuernavaca, Mexico.
(337)Department of Internal Medicine, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook 
County, Chicago, IL, USA.
(338)Department of Health Policy and Management, Haramaya University, Harar, 
Ethiopia.
(339)Medical College, Albany Medical College, Albany, NY, USA.
(340)School of Medicine, University of Colima, Colima, Mexico; Department of 
Research, Colima State Cancer Institute, Colima, Mexico.
(341)USAID-JSI Digital Health Activity, Jimma University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(342)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; 
Department of Neurosurgery, National Health Service (NHS) Scotland, Edinburgh, 
UK.
(343)Department of Forensic Medicine, University of Sarajevo, Sarajevo, Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.
(344)Department of Research, Gujarat Adani Institute of Medical Sciences and 
G.K. General Hospital, Bhuj, India.
(345)Department of Public Health, Madda Walabu University, Goba, Ethiopia.
(346)Chettinad Hospital & Research Institute, Chettinad Academy of Research and 
Education, Chennai, India.
(347)JSS Medical College Department of Biochemistry, Jagadguru Sri 
Shivarathreeswara University, Mysuru, India.
(348)Department of Pharmacy, United International University, Dhaka, Bangladesh; 
Pharmacology Division, Center for Life Sciences Research Bangladesh, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.
(349)Research and Development Cell, Dr. D. Y. Patil University, Pune, India.
(350)Research Department, Nepal Health Research Council, Kathmandu, Nepal; 
Institute of Occupational, Social and Environmental Medicine, Goethe University 
Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(351)The Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(352)College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(353)Department of Human Physiology, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(354)Institute of Health Research, University of Health and Allied Sciences, Ho, 
Ghana.
(355)Department of Epidemiology, Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(356)Neurology Department, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(357)Department of Social Medicine and Health Care Organisation, Medical 
University of Varna, Varna, Bulgaria.
(358)Health Science Center, University of Texas, Houston, TX, USA.
(359)Department of Medical, Surgical, and Health Sciences, University of 
Trieste, Trieste, Italy; Cardio-Thoraco-Vascular Department, Azienda Sanitaria 
Universitaria Giuliano Isontina, Trieste, Italy.
(360)Independent Consultant, South Plainfield, NJ, USA.
(361)Department of Cardiology, St. Joseph's University Medical Center, Paterson, 
NJ, USA.
(362)School of Population Health and Environmental Sciences, King's College 
London, London, UK.
(363)Department of Medicine, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, 
Bangalore, India.
(364)Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, India; Department of Forensic 
Medicine and Toxicology, Kasturba Medical College Mangalore, Mangalore, India.
(365)Prasanna School of Public Heath (PSPH), Manipal Academy of Higher 
Education, Manipal, India.
(366)Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do 
Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(367)School of Medicine, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, Brazil; 
Department of Internal Medicine, Escola Bahiana de Medicina e Saúde Pública 
(Bahiana School of Medicine and Public Health), Salvador, Brazil.
(368)Department of Conservative Dentistry with Endodontics, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.
(369)Faculty of Science and Health, University of Portsmouth, Hampshire, UK.
(370)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Texila American 
University, Tanta city, Egypt; School of Public health, Texila American 
University, Guyana, Guyana.
(371)Department of Clinical Pathology, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(372)Institute of Public Health, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United 
Arab Emirates.
(373)Clinical Pharmacy Program, Al Ain University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates; 
AAU Health and Biomedical Research Center, Al Ain University, Abu Dhabi, United 
Arab Emirates.
(374)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, 
USA; Division of Cardiology, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.
(375)Faculty of Medicine, University of Tripoli, Tripoli, Libya; Houston 
Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, USA.
(376)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, 
United Arab Emirates.
(377)Egypt Center for Research and Regenerative Medicine (ECRRM), Cairo, Egypt.
(378)Basic Medical Sciences Department, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United 
Arab Emirates; Research Institute of Medical & Health Sciences, University of 
Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates.
(379)Department of Pediatrics, Texas A&M University, Dallas, TX, USA.
(380)Department of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, James Cook University, 
Townsville, QLD, Australia.
(381)Department of Paediatrics, University of Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria; Department 
of Paediatrics, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Lagos, Nigeria.
(382)Division of Epidemiology, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(383)Department of Cardiology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(384)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche e Neuromotorie (DIBINEM), University of 
Bologna, BOLOGNA, Italy.
(385)Independent Consultant, Bologna, Italy.
(386)Division of Non-Communicable Diseases, Ministry of Public Health and 
Population, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
(387)Department of Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, University of Ibadan, 
Ibadan, Nigeria; Research Centre for Healthcare and Community, Coventry 
University, Coventry, UK.
(388)Department of Periodontology and Community Dentistry, University of Ibadan, 
Ibadan, Nigeria; Department of Periodontology and Community Dentistry, 
University College Hospital, Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(389)Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Research Program, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(390)Department of Oral Biology, The University of Lahore, Lahore, Pakistan.
(391)director of the scientific and technological park, Kazakh National Medical 
University, Almaty, Kazakhstan.
(392)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences, University of 
Catania, Catania, Italy; Epidemiology and Biostatistics Unit, IRCCS Pascale, 
Naples, Italy.
(393)Center for Global Health Research, Saveetha Institute of Medical and 
Technical Sciences (SIMATS), Chennai, India.
(394)Department of Neurological Surgery, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(395)Dissemination Division, National Institute of Statistics, Lisbon, Portugal; 
Activity Planning and Control Unit, Directorate-General of Health (DGS), Lisbon, 
Portugal.
(396)Department of Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics, Applied Science Private 
University, Amman, Jordan.
(397)Department of Biology, Salahaddin University-Erbil, Erbil, Iraq; Department 
of Biology, Cihan University-Erbil, Erbil, Iraq.
(398)Medical School, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran; 
Epilepsy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(399)Department of Psychology, Federal University of Sergipe, São Cristóvão, 
Brazil.
(400)School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; 
Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Institute, Non-Communicable Diseases 
Research Center (NCDRC), Tehran, Iran.
(401)Satcher Health Leadership Institute, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA, USA; School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(402)Centre for Public Health, Equity and Human Flourishing, Torrens University 
Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia; Institute of Resource Governance and Social 
Change, Kupang, Indonesia.
(403)Department of Biology and Medicine, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.
(404)Laboratory of Experimental Medicine, Kazakh National Medical University, 
Almaty, Kazakhstan.
(405)Department of Social Medicine and Epidemiology, Guilan University of 
Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(406)Department of Public Health and Infectious Diseases, City University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; Department of Pharmacy, Wollega University, 
Nekemte, Ethiopia.
(407)School of Population Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; National Institute of Environmental Health, Chinese Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China.
(408)Division of Neurology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences, and Society, Karolinska Institute, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(409)Center for Public Health Research, University of Milan Bicocca, Monza, 
Italy; Laboratory of Public Health, IRCCS Istituto Auxologico Italiano, Milan, 
Italy.
(410)Department of Social Sciences, University of Nicosia, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(411)Department of Nursing, Wollega University, Nekemte, Ethiopia.
(412)Institute of Health Sciences, Wollega University, Nekemte, Ethiopia; Jimma 
University, Jimma, Ethiopia.
(413)Institute of Public Health, Charité Medical University Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(414)Centre for Public Health, Equity and Human Flourishing, Torrens University 
Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia; College of Nursing and Health Sciences, 
Flinders University, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(415)Department of Neurology, University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal; Department 
of Neurology, Hospital de Santa Maria, Lisbon, Portugal.
(416)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Institute, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Department of Surgery, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(417)Department of Pharmacology, Iranshahr University of Medical Sciences, 
Iranshahr, Iran.
(418)Innovation in Healthcare and Social Services Department, Emilia-Romagna 
Region, Bologna, Italy.
(419)Department of Neuroscience, Multiple Sclerosis Research Center, Ravenna, 
Italy; Department of Biotechnological and Applied Clincial Sciences, University 
of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(420)College of Public Health, Medical, and Veterinary Sciences, James Cook 
University, Townsville, QLD, Australia.
(421)Graduate Institute of Injury Prevention and Control, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(422)Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine, All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, Gorakhpur, India.
(423)Health Services Management Training Centre, Semmelweis University, 
Budapest, Hungary; Department of Applied Social Sciences, Sapientia Hungarian 
University of Transylvania, Târgu-Mureş, Romania.
(424)Department of Community Medicine, Datta Meghe Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Wardha, India.
(425)Department of Medicine, Nazarbayev University, Astana, Kazakhstan.
(426)Department of Food Technology, Salahaddin University-Erbil, Erbil, Iraq; 
Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Cihan University-Erbil, Erbil, Iraq.
(427)Department of Medical Epidemiology, Mario Negri Institute for 
Pharmacological Research, Milan, Italy.
(428)Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine, All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, Nagpur, India.
(429)Institute of Health and Wellbeing, Federation University Australia, 
Churchill, VIC, Australia.
(430)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia; The Centre for Global Health, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(431)Professional Services Division, Texas State Board of Pharmacy, Austin, TX, 
USA.
(432)Department of Pharmacology, Indore Institute of Pharmacy, Indore, India.
(433)Department of Midwifery, Adigrat University, Adigrat, Ethiopia.
(434)Department of Environmental Health, Wollo University, Dessie, Ethiopia.
(435)Department of Nursing, Mekelle University, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(436)Department of Public Health, Debre Berhan University, Debre Berhan, 
Ethiopia.
(437)Department of Public Health, Menelik II Medical and Health Science College, 
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(438)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, Addis Ababa University, Addis 
Ababa, Ethiopia.
(439)School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(440)Psychiatric Nursing and Management Department, Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(441)Department of Cardiology, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran; Faculty of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(442)Department of Medical Surgical Nursing, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(443)Department of Medical Genetics, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Center for Comprehensive Genetic Services, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(444)Tropical Health Department, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt; 
Family and Community Medicine Department, King Khalid University Hospital, Abha, 
Saudi Arabia.
(445)Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California Davis, Davis, 
CA, USA.
(446)Department of Physics, University of Zanjan, Zanjan, Iran.
(447)Departments of Radiology and Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(448)SYNAPSIS Mental Health and Neurology Non-Profit Organization, Lima, Peru; 
Sensory Motor Laboratoy, Fondation Asile des Aveugles, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(449)Department of Medicine, Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan.
(450)Adelaide Medical School, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(451)Division of General Internal Medicine, Howard University, Washington, DC, 
USA; Department of Community and Family Medicine, Howard University, Washington, 
DC, USA.
(452)Department of Nursing, Ethiopian Public Health Institute, Chiro, Ethiopia.
(453)Third Department of Neurology, Research Center of Neurology, Moscow, 
Russia.
(454)Department of Hepatology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Lucknow, India.
(455)Department of Dermatology, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(456)Department of Health Systems and Policy Research, Indian Institute of 
Public Health, Gandhinagar, India.
(457)Department of Genetics, Sana Institute of Higher Education, Sari, Iran; 
Universal Scientific Education and Research Network (USERN), Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(458)Department of Life Sciences, Health and Healthcare Professions, Link Campus 
University, Rome, Italy; Health Services Research, Evaluation and Policy Unit, 
AUSL della Romagna, Ravenna, Italy.
(459)Department of Urban Public Health, University of Massachusetts Boston, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(460)Oncological Network, Prevention and Research Institute, Institute for 
Cancer Research, Prevention and Clinical Network, Florence, Italy.
(461)Department of Epidemiology, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(462)School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(463)Institute of Public Health, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United 
Arab Emirates; Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Charles 
University, Prague, Czech Republic.
(464)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences, University of 
Catania, Catania, Italy.
(465)Department of Endocrinology, National Institute of Health, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.
(466)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Anhui Medical University, 
Hefei, China.
(467)Post Graduate School of Public Health, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
(468)Harrington Heart and Vascular Institute, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH, USA; Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH, USA.
(469)Health Directorate, Local Health Authority of Bologna, Bologna, Italy; 
Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(470)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(471)Department of Community Medicine, University of Peradeniya, Kandy, Sri 
Lanka.
(472)Department of Urban Planning and Design, University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong, China.
(473)Group Health Department, Nanyang Central Hospital, Nanyang, China.
(474)Department of Nephrology, Max Super Speciality Hospital, New Delhi, India; 
Non-communicable Diseases Division (NCD), Indian Council of Medical Research, 
New Delhi, India.
(475)Department of Public Health, Torrens University Australia, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(476)Department of Internal Medicine, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(477)Department of Cardiology, Lehigh Valley Health Network, Allentown, PA, USA.
(478)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of South Carolina, 
Columbia, SC, USA; Centre for Noncommunicable Diseases and Nutrition, BRAC 
University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(479)Department of Preventive Cardiology & Medicine, Eternal Heart Care Centre & 
Research Institute, Jaipur, India; Department of Medicine, Mahatma Gandhi 
University Medical Sciences, Jaipur, India.
(480)Department of Toxicology, Shriram Institute for Industrial Research, Delhi, 
India.
(481)Global Virus Network, Middle East Region, Shiraz, Iran.
(482)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Medicine, University of Kufa, 
Najaf, Iraq.
(483)Brachial Plexus and Peripheral Nerve Injury Center, Guilan University of 
Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(484)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Ardabil University of Medical 
Science, Ardabil, Iran.
(485)Department of Immunology, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, 
Iran; Cancer Research Center, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, 
Iran.
(486)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; 
Obesity Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(487)Research Center for Social Determinants of Health, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(488)Biochemistry Department, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(489)School of Health and Environmental Studies, Hamdan Bin Mohammed Smart 
University, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
(490)University Institute of Public Health, The University of Lahore, Lahore, 
Pakistan.
(491)Department of Critical Care and Emergency Nursing, Zanjan University of 
Medical Sciences, Zanjan, Iran.
(492)Centre for Neuromuscular and Neurological Disorders, The University of 
Western Australia, Perth, WA, Australia; Stroke Research Centre, Perron 
Institute for Neurological and Translational Science, Perth, WA, Australia.
(493)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Bangladesh Agricultural 
University, Mymensingh, Bangladesh; Department of Anatomy, Dongguk University, 
Gyeongju, South Korea.
(494)The Warren Alpert Medical School, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.
(495)Department of Epidemiology Population Biostatistics and Health Promotion, 
Universitas Airlangga (Airlangga University), Surabaya, Indonesia.
(496)Faculty of Medicine, Utrecht University, Utrecht, Netherlands; Department 
of Radiology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(497)Research Unit, Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Deu, Barcelona, Spain; Mental 
Health, Biomedical Research Networking Center for Mental Health Network 
(CiberSAM), Madrid, Spain.
(498)Department of Advanced Nursing, Universitas Airlangga (Airlangga 
University), Surabaya, Indonesia; School of Nursing and Midwivery, La Trobe 
University, Bundoora, VIC, Australia.
(499)Department of Zoology and Entomology, Al-Azhar University, Cairo, Egypt.
(500)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, University of Dhaka, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.
(501)Department of Pharmacy, Palamau Institute of Pharmacy, Daltonganj, India.
(502)Public Health Department, Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital, Lafia, Nigeria; 
Department of Public Health, Federal University of Lafia, Lafia, Nigeria.
(503)Sina Trauma and Surgery Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(504)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology and Neuroradiology, 
University Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany; Institute of Artificial Intelligence 
in Medicine, University Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany.
(505)Skaane University Hospital, Skaane County Council, Malmö, Sweden.
(506)School of Life Course & Population Sciences, King's College London, London, 
UK.
(507)Faculty of Kinesiology, University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, NB, 
Canada; School of Allied Health, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA, Australia.
(508)Community-Oriented Nursing Midwifery Research Center, Shahrekord University 
of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.
(509)Department of Medicine, MedStar Health, Washington, DC, USA; Department of 
Medicine, Georgetown University, Washington DC, DC, USA.
(510)Department of Public Health, Madda Walabu University, Robe, Ethiopia.
(511)Department of Microbiology, Taiz University, Taiz, Yemen; School of 
Medicine, Nankai University, Tianjin, China.
(512)Division for Health Service Promotion, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(513)School of Dentistry, Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(514)Kasturba Medical College, Mangalore, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Manipal, India.
(515)Department of Pulmonology, Yokohama City University, Yokohama, Japan; 
National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD, USA.
(516)Department of Decision and Information Sciences, University of Houston, 
Houston, TX, USA; Public Health Research Group, Nature Study Society of 
Bangladesh, Khulna, Bangladesh.
(517)School of Health and Society, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW, 
Australia.
(518)Institute of Research and Development, Duy Tan University, Da Nang, 
Vietnam; Department of Computer Science, University of Human Development, 
Sulaymaniyah, Iraq.
(519)Department of Virology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran; Department of Virology, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(520)Department of Internal Medicine, Carol Davila University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.
(521)Department of Legal Medicine and Bioethics, Carol Davila University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania; Department of Clinical Legal 
Medicine, National Institute of Legal Medicine Mina Minovici, Bucharest, 
Romania.
(522)Department of Cardiology, The Fifth Clinical Medical School of Anhui 
Medical University, Hefei, China; Department of Cardiology, The Second People's 
Hospital of Hefei, Hefei, China.
(523)Department of Psychology, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(524)Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(525)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Shaikh Zayed 
Postgraduate Medical Institute, Lahore, Pakistan.
(526)Czech National Centre for Evidence-Based Healthcare and Knowledge 
Translation, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic; Institute of 
Biostatistics and Analyses, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(527)College of Health Sciences, VinUniversity, Hanoi, Vietnam; School of Health 
Care Administration, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(528)International Master Program for Translational Science, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(529)Department of Occupational Safety and Health, China Medical University 
Taiwan, Taichung, Taiwan; Department of Occupational Therapy, Asia University, 
Taiwan, Taichung, Taiwan.
(530)Department of Health Promotion and Education, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, 
Nigeria.
(531)International Center for Nutrition and Information, National Institutes of 
Biomedical Innovation, Health and Nutrition, Tokyo, Japan.
(532)The National Centre for Remote and Rural Health and Care, NHS National 
Services Scotland, Edinburgh, Scotland.
(533)West Africa RCC, Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, Abuja, 
Nigeria; Department of Community Medicine, University College Hospital, Ibadan, 
Ibadan, Nigeria.
(534)Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(535)Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.
(536)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Prince Sattam bin Abdulaziz University, Al 
Kharj, Saudi Arabia.
(537)Department of Health Research, ICMR National Institute for Research in 
Tuberculosis, Chennai, India.
(538)Faculty of Public Health, Universitas Muhammadiyah Aceh, Banda Aceh, 
Indonesia.
(539)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard University, Boston, MA, 
USA; Department of Research and Innovation, ARNECH Research and Consulting 
Office, Bujumbura, Burundi.
(540)Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Ahmad Dahlan, Yogyakarta, Indonesia.
(541)School of Pharmacy, BRAC University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(542)Clinical Laboratory Department, Tobruk University, Tobruk, Libya; 
Department of Blood Transmitted Diseases, National Centre for Disease Control 
(NCDC), Tobruk, Libya.
(543)Department of Clinical Pharmacy & Pharmacy Practice, Asian Institute of 
Medicine, Science and Technology, Bedong, Malaysia; Malaysian Academy of 
Pharmacy, Puchong, Malaysia.
(544)Public Health Department of Social Medicine, Osaka University, Suita, 
Japan.
(545)School of Management, The Apollo University, Chittoor, India.
(546)Department of Health Services Research, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, 
Japan; Department of Non-Communicable Disease Epidemiology, London School of 
Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(547)School of Health Systems and Public Health, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(548)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, Guilan University of 
Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(549)Department of Physical Medicine, Université Paris Cité, Paris, France; 
Research and Development Unit, Biomedical Research Networking Center for Mental 
Health Network (CiberSAM), Barcelona, Spain.
(550)Department of Immunology, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, 
Iran; Department of Immunology, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, 
Rafsanjan, Iran.
(551)College of Medicine and Medical Sciences, Arabian Gulf University, Manama, 
Bahrain; Ministry of Health, Manama, Bahrain.
(552)Department of Leukemia, The University of MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(553)Statistics Unit, Riga Stradins University, Riga, Latvia.
(554)Department of Health and Safety, Dubai Municipality, Dubai, United Arab 
Emirates.
(555)Centre for Community Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi, India.
(556)The World Academy of Sciences UNESCO, Trieste, Italy; Shaanxi University of 
Technology, Hanzhong, China.
(557)Department of Environmental Engineering, Islamic Azad University, Ahvaz, 
Iran.
(558)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, SRM Institute of Science and 
Technology (SRMIST), Chennai, India.
(559)School of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University of Tasmania, Hobart, TAS, 
Australia.
(560)Centre of Studies and Research, Ministry of Health, Muscat, Oman.
(561)Department of Biochemistry, Government Medical College, Mysuru, India.
(562)Department of Epidemiology and Health Promotion, Yonsei University, Seoul, 
South Korea.
(563)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Debre Tabor University, Debre Tabor, 
Ethiopia.
(564)Department of Internal Medicine, GCS Medical College, Hospital & Research 
Centre, Ahmedabad, India.
(565)Department of Nutrition, University of Nevada Reno, Reno, NV, USA; 
University of Johannesburg, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(566)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Saint Vincent Hospital, Worcester, 
MA, USA.
(567)Department of Community Medicine, Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Medical College & 
Hospital, Delhi, India; Department of Community Medicine, Banaras Hindu 
University, Varanasi, India.
(568)Department of Public Health, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
(569)Department of Public Health, La Trobe University, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia; Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(570)School of Public Health, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(571)Department of Medicine & Therapeutics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, China.
(572)Zoonoses Research Center, Islamic Azad University, Karaj, Iran.
(573)Rothschild Foundation Hospital, Institute of Molecular and Clinical 
Ophthalmology Basel, Paris, France; Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(574)Health Services Management Training Centre, Semmelweis University, 
Budapest, Hungary; Hungarian Health Management Association, Budapest, Hungary.
(575)Department of Community Medicine, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Mangalore, India.
(576)Department of Economics, National Open University, Benin City, Nigeria.
(577)Gastrointestinal and Liver Diseases Research Center, Guilan University of 
Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran; Caspian Digestive Disease Research Center, Guilan 
University of Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(578)Department of Family Medicine and Public Health, University of Opole, 
Opole, Poland.
(579)Institute of Family Medicine and Public Health, University of Tartu, Tartu, 
Estonia.
(580)Department of Social Work, Pabna University of Science and Technology, 
Pabna, Bangladesh.
(581)School of Public Health, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(582)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology, Krishna Vishwa Vidyapeeth 
(Deemed to be University), Karad, India.
(583)Department of Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(584)Department of Endocrinology, Bharti Hospital Karnal, Karnal, India; 
University Centre for Research and Development, Chandigarh University, Mohali, 
India.
(585)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, National Institute of 
Epidemiology, Chennai, India; Department of Biostatistics, Indian Council of 
Medical Research, New Delhi, India.
(586)Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(587)School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(588)Health Sciences, University of York, York, UK.
(589)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Sydney 
Eye Hospital, South Eastern Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(590)Faculty of Dentistry, University of Puthisastra, Phnom Penh, Cambodia; 
Office of the Executive Director, Cephas Health Research Initiative Inc, Ibadan, 
Nigeria.
(591)The Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Nab'a 
Al-Hayat Foundation for Medical Sciences and Health Care, New York, NY, USA; 
Cleft Lip and Palate Surgery Division, Global Smile Foundation, Norwood, MA, 
USA.
(592)Department of Forensic Science, Government Institute of Forensic Science 
Nagpur, Nagpur, India.
(593)2nd Cardiology Department, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(594)School of Health Professions and Human Services, Hofstra University, 
Hempstead, NY, USA; Department of Anesthesiology, Montefiore Medical Center, 
Bronx, NY, USA.
(595)Institute for Epidemiology and Social Medicine, University of Münster, 
Münster, Germany.
(596)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(597)Cardiovascular Diseases Research Institute, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(598)Endocrine Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran; Department of Echocardiography, Iran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(599)Central Department of Public Health, Institute of Medicine, Kathmandu, 
Nepal.
(600)Eye Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; 
Health Policy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(601)Surgery Research Unit, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland; Department of 
Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
(602)Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, India.
(603)Medical Basic Sciences Research Institute, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of 
Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran; Student Research Committee, Ahvaz Jundishapur 
University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(604)International Research Center of Excellence, Institute of Human Virology 
Nigeria, Abuja, Nigeria; Julius Centre for Health Sciences and Primary Care, 
Utrecht University, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(605)Department of Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(606)Cardiac Primary Prevention Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Department of Cardiac Electrophysiology, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(607)Department of Human Nutrition, National Research Institute for Agriculture, 
Food and Environment, Jouy-en-Josas, France; Sorbonne Paris Nord University, 
Bobigny, France.
(608)Department of Public Health, Jordan University of Science and Technology, 
Irbid, Jordan.
(609)Department of Public Health, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical 
Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran; Environmental Technologies Research Center, Medical Basic 
Sciences Research Institute, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, 
Ahvaz, Iran.
(610)Department of Public Health and Health Policy, Hiroshima University, 
Hiroshima, Japan.
(611)Amity Institute of Forensic Sciences, Amity University, Noida, India.
(612)College of Health Sciences, Abu Dhabi University, Adu Dhabi, United Arab 
Emirates.
(613)University Institute of Diet and Nutritional Sciences, The University of 
Lahore, Lahore, Pakistan.
(614)School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences, The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(615)Department of Physical Therapy, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi 
Arabia.
(616)Population Science Department, Jatiya Kabi Kazi Nazrul Islam University, 
Mymensingh, Bangladesh; Department of Public Health, University of Sydney, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(617)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Hong Kong, China.
(618)Family Medicine Department, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United 
Arab Emirates; Primary Care Department, NHS North West London, London, UK.
(619)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Jouf University, Sakaka, Saudi Arabia.
(620)Department of Epidemiology, Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center 
(NCDRC), Tehran, Iran; School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(621)College of Health, Wellbeing and Life Sciences, Sheffield Hallam 
University, Sheffield, UK; College of Arts and Sciences, Ohio University, 
Zanesville, OH, USA.
(622)Faculty of Nursing, Jerash University, Jerash, Jordan.
(623)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Yarmouk University, Irbid, Jordan.
(624)School of Medicine, Kurdistan University of Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, 
Iran.
(625)Global Consortium for Public Health Research, Datta Meghe Institute of 
Higher Education and Research, Wardha, India.
(626)Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Academy of 
Medical Science, Tehran, Iran.
(627)Department of Neurosurgery, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(628)Department of Biochemistry, Liaquat University Of Medical and Health 
Sciences, Jamshoro, Pakistan.
(629)Department of Biochemistry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Jodhpur, India.
(630)Department of Internal Medicine, Corewell Health East William Beaumont 
University Hospital, Royal Oak, MI, USA; Department of Medical Oncology, Miami 
Cancer Institute, Miami, FL, USA.
(631)Department of Health Management and Economics, Qom University of Medical 
Sciences, Qom, Iran; Department of Health Economics, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(632)Department of Public Health, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM, 
USA.
(633)Department of Cognition and Neuroscience, University of Texas, Dallas, TX, 
USA.
(634)Graduate School of Public Health, Yonsei University, Busan, South Korea.
(635)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA; Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(636)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Xiamen University Malaysia, Sepang, 
Malaysia.
(637)Millennium Prevention, Inc., Westwood, MA, USA.
(638)School of Health Sciences, Kristiania University College, Oslo, Norway; 
Department of International Health and Sustainable Development, Tulane 
University, New Orleans, LA, USA.
(639)Department of Nursing and Health Promotion, Oslo Metropolitan University, 
Oslo, Norway.
(640)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(641)Health System and Population Studies Divisions, International Centre for 
Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh, Dhaka, Bangladesh; Center for Global 
Mental Health, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(642)Children's Medical Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(643)Department of Public Health Dentistry, Krishna Vishwa Vidyapeeth (Deemed to 
be University), Karad, India.
(644)Department of Neurosurgery, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(645)Department of Epidemiology and Evidence-Based Medicine, I.M. Sechenov First 
Moscow State Medical University, Moscow, Russia.
(646)Department of General Practice and Family Medicine, Kharkiv National 
Medical University, Kharkiv, Ukraine.
(647)Independent Consultant, Jakarta, Indonesia.
(648)Department of Epidemiology, IQVIA, Frankfurt am Main, Germany; Department 
of Gynecology, Philipps-Universität Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(649)Department of Anaesthesiology and Critical Care, All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, India.
(650)Department of Biochemistry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Bhopal, India.
(651)Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Udupi, India.
(652)Department of Anthropology, Panjab University, Chandigarh, India.
(653)Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Pondicherry University, 
Puducherry, India.
(654)Department of Anesthesiology, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA; Department 
of Anesthesiology & Pain Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(655)Department of Physiology, Pravara Institute of Medical Sciences (Deemed to 
be University), Loni, India.
(656)Department of Neuroscience, University of Medicine, Tirana, Albania; 
Department of Neuroscience, Medical Sciences University Hospital, Tirana, 
Albania.
(657)Department of Demography, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada; 
Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Montreal, Montreal, 
QC, Canada.
(658)Faculty of Medicine, Gazi University, Ankara, Turkiye.
(659)Department of Mathematics, University of Rajshahi, Rajshahi, Bangladesh.
(660)Department of Biochemistry, University of Hail, Hail, Saudi Arabia.
(661)University of Environment and Sustainable Development, Somanya, Ghana.
(662)Atchabarov Scientific-Research Institute of Fundamental and Applied 
Medicine, Kazakh National Medical University, Almaty, Kazakhstan; Center of 
Medicine and Public Health, Asfendiyarov Kazakh National Medical University, 
Almaty, Kazakhstan.
(663)Department of Medicine, Queensland Health, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(664)Cardiothoracic Surgery Department, NYU Langone Health, New York City, NY, 
USA; Cardiothoracic Surgery Department, Medanta Hospital, Gurugram, India.
(665)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Cabrini Institute, Rochester, MN, 
USA.
(666)Department of Community Medicine, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Ranchi, India.
(667)Public Health Foundation of India, Gurugram, India.
(668)College of Public Health & Health Informatics, University of Hail, Hail, 
Saudi Arabia.
(669)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, 
USA.
(670)School of Medicine and Dentistry, Griffith University, Gold Coast, QLD, 
Australia; Department of Nutrition and Food Science, Patuakhali Science and 
Technology University, Patuakhali, Bangladesh.
(671)Section of Cardiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; 
Department of Translational Health Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(672)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Coventry University, Coventry, UK; 
Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(673)Department of Health Services Research and Management, City University of 
London, London, UK; Faculty of Public Health, University of Indonesia, Depok, 
Indonesia.
(674)Department of General Surgery, Dr NTR University of Health Sciences, 
Vijayawada, India.
(675)Department of Nephrology, Pushpagiri Institute of Medical Sciences and 
Research Centre, Thiruvalla, India.
(676)Clinical Research Center, Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland; Heart 
Center, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(677)Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan, 
Milan, Italy.
(678)Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK; 
National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Oxford Biomedical Research Centre, 
Oxford, UK.
(679)Integrated Department of Epidemiology, Health Policy, Preventive Medicine 
and Pediatrics, Foundation for People-centric Health Systems, New Delhi, India; 
SD Gupta School of Public Health, Indian Institute of Health Management Research 
University, Jaipur, India.
(680)Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi, India.
(681)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(682)Health Services Management Training Centre, Semmelweis University, 
Budapest, Hungary; NEVES Society for Patient Safety, Budapest, Hungary.
(683)Unidad de Genética y Salud Pública, Instituto de Ciencias Médicas, Las 
Tablas, Panama; Ministry of Health, Hospital Joaquín Pablo Franco Sayas, Las 
Tablas, Panama.
(684)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden; 
Department of Clinical Chemistry and Pharmacology, Uppsala University Hospital, 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(685)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Father Muller Medical College, 
Mangalore, India.
(686)Department of Anesthesiology, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(687)International Society Doctors for the Environment, Arezzo, Italy.
(688)Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, German Clinic of Santiago, 
Santiago, Chile; Faculty of Medicine, University of Development, Santiago, 
Chile.
(689)Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacy Management, Kaduna State University, Kaduna, 
Nigeria.
(690)Health Economics Division, Monash University, Burwood, VIC, Australia.
(691)Faculty of Medicine, University of Medicine and Pharmacy at Ho Chi Minh 
City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; Department of Cardiovascular Research, 
Methodist Hospital, Merrillville, IN, USA.
(692)University of Medicine and Pharmacy at Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, 
Vietnam.
(693)University of Medicine and Pharmacy at Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, 
Vietnam; Independent Consultant, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(694)Southampton Clinical Trials Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton, 
UK.
(695)Department of Precision Medicine, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon-si, South 
Korea.
(696)Department of Family Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch, 
Galveston, TX, USA.
(697)Department of Preventive Medicine, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea.
(698)Department of Health Promotion and Health Education, National Taiwan Normal 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(699)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(700)Department of Health Management Center, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(701)National Clinical Research Center for Cardiovascular Diseases, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences, Shenzhen, China.
(702)Department of Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; 
Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, China.
(703)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(704)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden; 
Department of Medicine, Norrtälje Hospital (Tiohundra), Norrtälje, Sweden.
(705)School of Public Health, Zefat Academic College, Haifa, Israel.
(706)School of Life Sciences, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(707)Center for Evidence-Based Medicine and Clinical Research, Hubei University 
of Medicine, Shiyan, China.
(708)Department of Cardiology, Guiqian International General Hospital, Guiyang, 
China.
(709)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Yale University, New Haven, 
CT, USA; Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(710)Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA; Department 
of Quantitative Health Science, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, 
USA.
(711)Department of Molecular Epidemiology, German Institute of Human Nutrition 
Potsdam-Rehbrücke, Potsdam, Germany; German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), 
München-Neuherberg, Germany.
(712)Department of Internal Medicine, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine at UNLV, 
Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(713)Department of Pediatrics, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA; 
Department of Pediatric Neurology, Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH, 
USA.
(714)Department of Cardiology, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(715)One Health Research Group, Universidad de Las Américas, Quito, Ecuador.
(716)Department of Health Economics, Syreon Research Romania, Targu Mures, 
Romania; Department of Doctoral Studies, George Emil Palade University of 
Medicine, Pharmacy, Science, and Technology of Targu Mures, Targu Mures, 
Romania.
(717)Institute of Nutritional Sciences, Friedrich Schiller University Jena, 
Jena, Germany; Competence Cluster for Nutrition and Cardiovascular Health 
(nutriCARD), Jena, Germany.
(718)Department of Medicine, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(719)School of Medicine, Federal University of Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, 
Brazil.
(720)Center for Evidence-Based and Translational Medicine, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, China.
(721)Department of Population Health Sciences, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(722)Centre for Public Health and Wellbeing, University of the West of England, 
Bristol, UK.
(723)Department of Periodontology, Pomeranian Medical University, Szczecin, 
Poland.
(724)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Yazd University of Medical 
Sciences, Yazd, Iran.
(725)Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition, Deakin University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(726)USERN Office, Lorestan University of Medical Sciences, Khorramabad, Iran.
(727)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Georgia at Augusta University, 
Augusta, GA, USA; Department of Cardiology, October 6 University, 6th of October 
City, Egypt.
(728)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(729)Rama Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Uttar Pradesh, India; 
Institute of Applied Health Research, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(730)Rabigh Faculty of Medicine, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi 
Arabia.
(731)Department of Electrical Engineering, Prince Sattam bin Abdulaziz 
University, Al Kharj, Saudi Arabia.
(732)Department of Maternal-Child Nursing and Public Health, Federal University 
of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(733)Poche Centre for Indigenous Health, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, 
QLD, Australia.
(734)Smidt Heart Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(735)Cardiology Department, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, 
Iran.
(736)Digestive Diseases Research Institute, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(737)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(738)School of Medicine and Surgery, University of Milan Bicocca, Monza, Italy; 
Laboratory of Public Health, Instituto Auxologico Italiano IRCCS (Italian 
Auxological Institute), Milan, Italy.
(739)Biomedical Engineering Research Center (CREB), Universitat Politècnica de 
Catalunya (Barcelona Tech - UPC), Barcelona, Spain; Department of Biomedical 
Engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.
(740)Department of Biochemistry, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, 
Gorgan, Iran.
(741)Faculty of Public Health, Universitas Airlangga (University of Airlangga), 
Surabaya, Indonesia; Indonesian Public Health Association, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(742)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, University of Concepción, 
Concepción, Chile; Centre for Healthy Living, University of Concepción, 
Concepción, Chile.
(743)Department of Pharmacy, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, Pakistan.
(744)Faculty of Humanities and Health Sciences, Curtin University, Sarawak, 
Malaysia; Jeffrey Cheah School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Monash 
University, Subang Jaya, Malaysia.
(745)School of Public Health, Haramaya University, Harar, Ethiopia.
(746)Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, Monash University, 
Clayton, VIC, Australia; Department of Anatomy, Genetics and Biomedical 
Informatics, University of Colombo, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
(747)Research Division, The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, 
India; School of Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(748)Department of Twin Research and Genetic Epidemiology, King's College 
London, London, UK.
(749)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene 
& Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(750)Australian Centre for Health Services Innovation, Queensland University of 
Technology, Kelvin Grove, QLD, Australia; Digital Health and Informatics 
Directorate, Queensland Health, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(751)Department of Healthcare, University of Vlora, Vlora City, Albania; Clinic 
of Social and Family Medicine, University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece.
(752)Department of Health Informatics, Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(753)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(754)Department of Public Health, Arba Minch University, Arba Minch, Ethiopia.
(755)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, Adigrat University, Adigrat, 
Ethiopia.
(756)Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Peru.
(757)Division of Forensic Medicine, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, 
Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(758)Center for Translation Research and Implementation Science, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA; Department of Medicine, University of 
Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(759)Department of Physiology, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(760)General Administration, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland; 
School of Health Sciences, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(761)Comprehensive Cancer Center, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland; University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(762)University Centre Varazdin, University North, Varazdin, Croatia; Institute 
for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(763)Department of Pharmacology, University of Kelaniya, Ragama, Sri Lanka; 
Clinical Medicine Department, Colombo North Teaching Hospital, Ragama, Sri 
Lanka.
(764)Department of Propedeutics of Internal Diseases & Arterial Hypertension, 
Pomeranian Medical University, Szczecin, Poland.
(765)National Cancer Registry, Maria Sklodowska-Curie National Research 
Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland; Pathology Department, Maria 
Sklodowska-Curie National Research Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland.
(766)Multidisciplinary Department of Medical-Surgical and Dental Specialties, 
Univerity of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Naples, Italy; Saveetha Dental College 
and Hospitals, Saveetha University, Chennai, India.
(767)International Ph.D. Program in Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, 
Taiwan; Research Center for Artificial Intelligence in Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(768)Department of Public Health Dentistry, Saveetha Institute of Medical and 
Technical Sciences (SIMATS), Chennai, India; Global Institute of Public Health, 
Ananthapuri Hospitals and Research Institute, Trivandrum, India.
(769)Faculty of Nursing and Midwifery, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(770)Department of Statistics and Econometrics, Bucharest University of Economic 
Studies, Bucharest, Romania.
(771)Internal Medicine Programme, Kyrgyz State Medical Academy, Bishkek, 
Kyrgyzstan; Department of Atherosclerosis and Coronary Heart Disease, National 
Center of Cardiology and Internal Disease, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan.
(772)Department of Radiology, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran; Social Determinants of Health Center, Urmia University of Medical 
Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(773)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Mercer University School of Medicine, 
Macon, GA, USA.
(774)Department of Surgical Oncology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Jodhpur, India.
(775)College of Health Science, University of Hargeisa, Hargeisa, Somalia; 
Institute of Health Science, Jimma University, Jimma, Ethiopia.
(776)College of Applied and Natural Science, University of Hargeisa, Hargeisa, 
Somalia.
(777)Molecular Biology Unit, Sirius Training and Research Centre, Khartoum, 
Sudan; Bio-Statistical and Molecular Biology Department, Sirius Training and 
Research Centre, Khartoum, Sudan.
(778)College of Medicine, University of Duhok, Duhok, Iraq.
(779)Non-communicable Diseases Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Faculty of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(780)Natural and Medical Sciences Research Center, University of Nizwa, Nizwa, 
Oman; Infectious Diseases Research Center, Golestan University of Medical 
Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
(781)Modeling in Health Research Center, Shahrekord University of Medical 
Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.
(782)Skull Base Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(783)QU Health, Qatar University, Doha, Qatar.
(784)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Notre Dame of Maryland University, 
Baltimore, MD, USA; Department of Pharmacy, Mizan-Tepi University, Mizan, 
Ethiopia.
(785)Health Systems and Policy Research Unit, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, 
Nigeria; Heidelberg Institute of Global Health (HIGH), Heidelberg University, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(786)Department of Biostatistics, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(787)Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London, UK.
(788)Department of Mathematics, The University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan; 
Nonlinear Dynamics Research Center (NDRC), Ajman University, Ajman, United Arab 
Emirates.
(789)Clinical Epidemiology and Public Health Research Unit, Burlo Garofolo 
Institute for Maternal and Child Health, Trieste, Italy.
(790)AI & Cyber Futures Institute, Charles Sturt University, Bathurst, NSW, 
Australia; The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(791)Department of Ophthalmology & Vision Science, University of California 
Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA; Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center (NCDRC), 
Tehran, Iran.
(792)Faculty of Medicine, Birjand University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran.
(793)Health Sciences Research Center, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, 
Sari, Iran.
(794)Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(795)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Kurdistan University of 
Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran.
(796)Computer, Electrical, and Mathematical Sciences and Engineering Division, 
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Thuwal, Saudi Arabia.
(797)International Laboratory for Air Quality and Health, Queensland University 
of Technology, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(798)Department of Public Health, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Recife, Brazil; 
Department of Public Health, Federal University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(799)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(800)Neurosciences Research Center (NSRC), Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran; Student Research Committee, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(801)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, London, UK; Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, 
London, UK.
(802)Non-communicable Diseases Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(803)Department of Radiology, University of Tripoli, Tripoli, Libya.
(804)Unit of Pharmacotherapy, Epidemiology and Economics, University of 
Groningen (Rijksuniversiteit Groningen), Groningen, Netherlands; Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(805)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(806)Department of Medicine, Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, 
Greece.
(807)Department of Health Economics, National Institute for Research in 
Tuberculosis, Chennai, India.
(808)Amity Institute of Pharmacy, Amity University, Noida, India.
(809)Clinical Epidemiology Research Unit, Mexican Institute of Social Security, 
Villa de Alvarez, Mexico; Postgraduate in Medical Sciences, Universidad de 
Colima, Colima, Mexico.
(810)Department of Research Methodology, Orthopaedic Research Group, Coimbatore, 
India; Department of Biotechnology, Karpagam Academy of Higher Education (Deemed 
to be University), Coimbatore, India.
(811)Department of Psychiatry, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea; 
Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Seongnam, South Korea.
(812)Department of Ophthalmology, Guilan University of Medical Sciences, Rasht, 
Iran.
(813)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ain Shams University, Cairo, 
Egypt; Department of Knowledge Translation and Utilization, Egyptian Center for 
Evidence Based Medicine, Cairo, Egypt.
(814)Elderly Health Research Center, Research and Academic Institution, Tehran, 
Iran.
(815)Research and Analytics Department, Initiative for Financing Health and 
Human Development, Chennai, India; Department of Research and Analytics, 
Bioinsilico Technologies, Chennai, India.
(816)Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, 
Urbana, IL, USA.
(817)College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders University, Adelaide, SA, 
Australia; Department of Engineering, Western Sydney University, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(818)Department Health Services Research, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, USA.
(819)Laboratory of Public Health Indicators Analysis and Health Digitalization, 
Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Dolgoprudny, Russia; Experimental 
Surgery and Oncology Laboratory, Kursk State Medical University, Kursk, Russia.
(820)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Government Medical College Thrissur, 
Thrissur, India; Health Action by People, Trivandrum, India.
(821)Department of Community Medicine, MOSC Medical College, Kolenchery, India.
(822)Heart Failure Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, 
Isfahan, Iran; Neuroscience Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(823)Department of Medical Laboratory Analysis, Cihan University Sulaymaniya, 
Sulaymaniyah, Iraq.
(824)Department of Physiotherapy, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran; Research Center for War-affected People, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(825)Suraj Eye Institute, Nagpur, India.
(826)Mysore Medical College and Research Institute, Government Medical College, 
Mysore, India.
(827)Heart Failure Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, 
Isfahan, Iran.
(828)Department of Clinical Medicine, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, Brazil; Clinical Hospital, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, Brazil.
(829)National Dental Research Institute Singapore, Duke-NUS Medical School, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(830)Health Management and Economics Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Faculty of Medicine, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(831)Tehran Heart Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; 
Faculty of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(832)Department of Dental Public Health, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, 
Saudi Arabia; Department of Health Policy and Oral Epidemiology, Harvard 
University, Boston, MA, USA.
(833)College of Medicine and Health Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, 
Al Ain, United Arab Emirates; Department of Circulation and Medical Imaging, 
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
(834)Department of Community Medicine, University of Peradeniya, Kandy, Sri 
Lanka; Postgraduate Institute of Medicine, University of Colombo, Colombo, Sri 
Lanka.
(835)Department of Forensic Medicine, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Manipal, India.
(836)Department of Health Promotion, Zahedan University of Medical Sciences, 
Zahedan, Iran.
(837)Department of Disease Control and Environmental Health, Makerere 
University, Kampala, Uganda.
(838)Department of General Surgery, Carol Davila University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania; Department of General Surgery, Emergency 
University Hospital Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania.
(839)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Carol Davila University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania; Department of Cardiology, Cardio-Aid, 
Bucharest, Romania.
(840)HIV/STI Surveillance Research Center, Kerman University of Medical 
Sciences, Kerman, Iran; Department of Epidemiology, Non-Communicable Diseases 
Research Center (NCDRC), Tehran, Iran.
(841)Faculty of Medicine, Euromed University of Fes, Fez, Morocco; Faculty of 
Medicine, University Sidi Mohammed Ben Abdellah, Fez, Morocco.
(842)Applied Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Kerman University of 
Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(843)Department of Community Medicine, Kathmandu University, Palpa, Nepal.
(844)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK; Department of 
Neurosciences, Kenya Medical Research Institute/Wellcome Trust Research 
Programme, Kilifi, Kenya.
(845)Division of Cardiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; 
Department of Medical Engineering, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA.
(846)Cardiovascular laboratory, Methodist Hospital, Merrillville, Merrillville, 
IN, USA; Department of Allergy, Immunology and Dermatology, Hanoi Medical 
University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(847)Faculty of Medicine, Duy Tan University, Da Nang, Vietnam; Institute for 
Research and Training in Medicine, Biology and Pharmacy, Duy Tan University, Da 
Nang, Vietnam.
(848)Cardiovascular Research Department, Methodist Hospital, Merrillville, IL, 
USA.
(849)Department of General Medicine, Pham Ngoc Thach University of Medicine, Ho 
Chi Minh City, Vietnam; Faculty of Medicine, Pham Ngoc Thach University of 
Medicine, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(850)Department of Surgery, Danang Family Hospital, Danang, Vietnam.
(851)Department of General Medicine, University of Medicine and Pharmacy at Ho 
Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(852)International Islamic University Islamabad, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(853)Institute for Mental Health Policy Research, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(854)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(855)Public Health Department, Universitas Negeri Semarang (State University of 
Semarang?), Kota Semarang, Indonesia; Graduate Institute of Biomedical 
Informatics, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(856)Technical Department, South African Medical Research Council, Cape Town, 
South Africa; School of Public Health and Family Medicine, University of Cape 
Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(857)Center for Public Health, Teesside University, Middlesbrough, UK.
(858)Department of Health Policy and Management, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan; 
Department of Global Health Policy, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(859)Department of Maternal and Child health, International Centre for 
Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh, Dhaka, Bangladesh; Department of 
Statistics, Shahjalal University of Science and Technology, Sylhet, Bangladesh.
(860)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(861)School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(862)Centre for Heart Rhythm Disorders, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, 
Australia.
(863)Department of Paediatrics, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Nigeria.
(864)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Thessaly, Larissa, Greece.
(865)Division of Cardiology, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa; 
The Cardiac Clinic, Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.
(866)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; School of 
Information, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(867)Department of Health Sciences and Public Health, Università Cattolica del 
Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy; School of Economics, Università Cattolica del Sacro 
Cuore, Rome, Italy.
(868)Department of Public Health, Banten School of Health Science, South 
Tangerang, Indonesia; Ministry of Research, Technology and Higher Education, 
Higher Education Service Institutions (LL-DIKTI) Region IV, Bandung, Indonesia.
(869)Center of Excellence in Reproductive Health Innovation (CERHI), University 
of Benin, Benin City, Nigeria.
(870)Department of Physiology, University of Benin, Edo, Nigeria; Department of 
Physiology, Benson Idahosa University, Benin City, Nigeria.
(871)Department of Applied Economics and Quantitative Analysis, University of 
Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania.
(872)James Cook University, Townsville, QLD, Australia.
(873)Department of Veterinary Public Health and Preventive Medicine, University 
of Ilorin, Ilorin, Nigeria.
(874)Department of Medicine, National University of Ireland - Galway, Galway, 
Ireland.
(875)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK.
(876)Department of Preventive Medicine, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(877)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(878)Health Promotion Research Center, Zahedan University of Medical Sciences, 
Zahedan, Iran.
(879)Centre for Social Research in Health, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia; University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(880)Department of Food and Nutrition, Seoul National University, Seoul, South 
Korea; College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(881)Department of Food Science and Postharvest Technology, Gulu University, 
Gulu, Uganda.
(882)School of Pharmacy, University of the Western Cape, Cape Town, South 
Africa.
(883)Gorgan Congenital Malformations Research Center, Golestan University of 
Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
(884)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, ON, Canada; Department of Psychiatry, University of Lagos, 
Lagos, Nigeria.
(885)Department of Neurology, University College Hospital, Ibadan, Ibadan, 
Nigeria; Department of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(886)Nutriton and Toxicology, Federal institute of Industrial Research, Lagos, 
Nigeria; Department of Biochemistry, Genetics and Microbiology, University of 
KwaZulu-Natal, Westville, South Africa.
(887)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(888)Department of Nursing Science, Bowen University, Iwo, Nigeria.
(889)Center for Clinical and Epidemiological Research, University of São Paulo, 
São Paulo, Brazil; Associação Brasileira de Cefaleia em Salvas e Enxaqueca 
(ABRACES), São Paulo, Brazil.
(890)Cardiology Department, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.
(891)Department of Community Medicine, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria.
(892)Slum and Rural Health Initiative Research Academy, Slum and Rural Health 
Initiative, Ibadan, Nigeria; Faculty of Public Health, University of Ibadan, 
Ibadan, Nigeria.
(893)Department of Microbiology, University of Medical Sciences, Ondo, Ondo, 
Nigeria.
(894)Department of Anatomy, University of Medical Sciences, Ondo, Ondo, Nigeria; 
Department of Anatomy, Olabisi Onabanjo University, Sagamu, Nigeria.
(895)Department of Pharmacy Practice and Pharmacotherapeutics, University of 
Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; Department of Pharmacology and 
Toxicology, Beni-Suef University, Beni-Suef, Egypt.
(896)Diplomacy and Public Relations Department, University of Human Development, 
Sulaymaniyah, Iraq.
(897)Department of Public Health, Ministry of Health, Bandar Seri Begawan, 
Brunei; Institute of Health Sciences, Universiti Brunei Darussalam, Bandar Seri 
Begawan, Brunei.
(898)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of Nigeria Nsukka, 
Enugu, Nigeria.
(899)Department of Geography, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, USA.
(900)Department of Pharmacotherapy and Pharmaceutical Care, Medical University 
of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(901)Department of Biotechnological and Applied Clinical Sciences, University of 
L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy; Department of Neurology, ASL 
Avezzano-Sulmona-L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(902)Department of Medicine, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid (Autonomous 
University of Madrid), Madrid, Spain; Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, 
The Institute for Health Research Foundation Jiménez Díaz University Hospital, 
Madrid, Spain.
(903)One Health Global Research Group, Universidad de las Americas (University 
of the Americas), Quito, Ecuador.
(904)Department of Biology, Khalifa University, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(905)School of Medicine, Western Sydney University, Bathurst, NSW, Australia; 
Department of Optometry and Vision Science, University of KwaZulu-Natal, 
KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
(906)Laboratory of Public Health Indicators Analysis and Health Digitalization, 
Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Dolgoprudny, Russia; Department of 
Project Management, National Research University Higher School of Economics, 
Moscow, Russia.
(907)Department of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria; Department 
of Medicine, University College Hospital, Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(908)Department of Biosciences and Biotechnology, University of Medical 
Sciences, Ondo, Ondo, Nigeria.
(909)School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA; Miami 
Cancer Institute, Baptist Health South Florida, Miami, FL, USA.
(910)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Jagadguru Sri Shivarathreeswara 
University, Mysore, India.
(911)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Harvard University, 
Boston, MA, USA; Universidad San Ignacio de Loyola, Lima, Peru.
(912)National School of Public Health, Institute of Health Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain.
(913)Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Manipal Academy of Higher 
Education, Mangalore, India.
(914)Department of Mental Health, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron (Vall 
d'Hebron University Hospital), Barcelona, Spain; Department of Psychiatry, 
Mental Health and Addictions, Vall d'Hebron Institut de Recerca (Vall d'Hebron 
Research Institute), Barcelona, Spain.
(915)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania, Hobart, 
TAS, Australia.
(916)Department of Ophthalmology, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(917)Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Amity University Uttar Pradesh, Noida, 
India.
(918)Research Department, Nepal Health Research Council, Kathmandu, Nepal; 
Research Department, Public Health Research Society Nepal, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(919)Centre for Research and Development, Chandigarh University, Punjab, India; 
Division of Research and Development, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
India.
(920)Department of Neurology, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland; Department 
of Neurology, University of Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(921)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Thessaly, Larissa, Greece; 
Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(922)Department of Science and Mathematics, Deree-The American College of 
Greece, Athens, Greece; Department of Biophysics, University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece.
(923)Vision and Eye Research Institute, Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge, UK.
(924)Department of Community Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Jammu, India.
(925)Department of Epidemiology and Community Health, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(926)School of Psychological Sciences, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(927)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Torino, Torino, Italy; 
Department of Imaging, AOU Città della Salute e della Scienza di Torino, Torino, 
Italy.
(928)Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece, Thessaloniki, Greece; Second 
Department of Cardiology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.
(929)Research Department, Nepal Health Research Council, Kathmandu, Nepal; 
Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, 
Nepal.
(930)Department of Genetics, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(931)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia; College of Public Health, Medical, and Veterinary 
Sciences, James Cook University, Townsville, QLD, Australia.
(932)Clinical Research Department, IRCCS Fondazione Don Carlo Gnocchi, Milan, 
Italy.
(933)Australian Institute of Health Innovation, Macquarie University, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(934)Department of Applied Nursing, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, Brazil.
(935)Department of Psychiatry, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil; 
International Institute for Educational Planning (IIEP), Albert Einstein 
Hospital, São Paulo, Brazil.
(936)Social and Economic Survey Research Institute, Qatar University, Doha, 
Qatar.
(937)Mario Negri Institute for Pharmacological Research, Bergamo, Italy.
(938)Pennsylvania Cancer and Regenerative Medicine Center, Baruch S Blumberg 
Institute, Doylestown, PA, USA; Department of Medicine, Xavier University School 
of Medicine, Woodbury, NY, USA.
(939)Facultad de Medicina, (Universidad Diego Portales) Diego Portales 
University, Santiago, Chile; School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Health, 
University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(940)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA; 
Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(941)Department of Internal Medicine, Weiss Memorial Hospital, Chicago, IL, USA.
(942)Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 
China; Departments of Psychiatry and Epidemiology, Columbia University, New 
York, NY, USA.
(943)Department of Cardiology, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(944)Research Center of Neurology, Moscow, Russia.
(945)Molecular Medicine Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(946)Research School of Chemistry and Applied Biomedical Sciences, Tomsk 
Polytechnic University, Tomsk, Russia; Siberian State Medical University, Tomsk, 
Russia.
(947)Department of Medicine, Nazarbayev University, Astana, Kazakhstan; Clinical 
Academic Department of Pediatrics, University Medical Center (UMC), Astana, 
Kazakhstan.
(948)Department of Data Management and Analysis, The International Clinical 
Epidemiology Network (INCLEN) Trust International, New Delhi, India.
(949)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Novi Sad, Novi Sad, Serbia; 
Clinic for Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolic Disorders, Clinical Center of 
Vojvodina, Novi Sad, Serbia.
(950)University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, 
Netherlands; Center of Excellence in Higher Education for Pharmaceutical Care 
Innovation, Universitas Padjadjaran (Padjadjaran University), Bandung, 
Indonesia.
(951)Non-communicable Diseases Research Center, Bam University of Medical 
Sciences, Bam, Iran.
(952)Humanities and Social Sciences, National Institute of Technology Rourkela, 
Rourkela, India.
(953)Department of Community Medicine, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, Nepal; 
T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.
(954)Department of Neurophysiotherapy, MGM Institute of Physiotherapy, 
Chhatrapati Sambhaginagar, India.
(955)Department of Clinical Research and Epidemiology, Institute of Liver and 
Biliary Sciences, New Delhi, New Delhi, India.
(956)Health Sciences Department, Muhammadiyah University of Surakarta, 
Sukoharjo, Indonesia.
(957)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(958)Department of Neonatology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, 
USA.
(959)Department of Epidemiology, Shandong University, Jinan, China.
(960)UO Neurologia, Salute Pubblica e Disabilità, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto 
Neurologico Carlo Besta (The Neurology, Public Health and Disability Unit, IRCCS 
Foundation Carlo Besta Neurological Institute), Milan, Italy.
(961)Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine, All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, India.
(962)Department of Epidemiology, National Institute of Mental Health and 
Neurosciences, Bengaluru, India.
(963)Department of Medical Laboratory Technologies, Alnoor University, Mousl, 
Iraq; Al-Noor Center of Research and Innovation, Alnoor University, Mousl, Iraq.
(964)Department of Health Policy & Organization, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA; Department of Health Services Administration, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(965)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center (PSRC), Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(966)Department of Population Science and Human Resource Development, University 
of Rajshahi, Rajshahi, Bangladesh.
(967)Manipal TATA Medical College, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, 
India.
(968)Institute of Health and Wellbeing, Federation University Australia, 
Berwick, VIC, Australia; School of Nursing and Midwifery, La Trobe University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(969)Future Technology Research Center, National Yunlin University of Science 
and Technology, Yunlin, Taiwan.
(970)Student Research Committee, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(971)Inflammatory Lung Diseases Research Center, Guilan University of Medical 
Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(972)Department of Public Health, Torbat Jam Faculty of Medical Sciences, Torbat 
Jam, Iran.
(973)Student Research Committee, Shahrekord University of Medical Sciences, 
Shahrekord, Iran.
(974)Department of Nutrition Science, Muhammadiyah University of Surakarta, 
Surakarta, Indonesia.
(975)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Hyderabad, India.
(976)Department of Community Medicine, Employees' State Insurance Model 
Hospital, Chennai, India.
(977)Department of Health Education and Promotion, Jazan University, Jazan, 
Saudi Arabia.
(978)Centre for Chronic Disease Control, New Delhi, India.
(979)Department of Cardiology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(980)Department of Clinical Science, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab 
Emirates; Department of Cardiology, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(981)Department of Population Health, King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for 
Health Sciences, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(982)Department of Public Health Dentistry, Amrita Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Kochi, India.
(983)Department of Radiology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(984)School of Nursing & Health Sciences, Hong Kong Metropolitan University, 
Hong Kong, China; Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(985)South Asian Institute for Social Transformation (SAIST), Dhaka, Bangladesh; 
Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, Canada.
(986)Translational Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(987)Department of Community Medicine, Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Medical College and 
Hospital, Dhanbad, India.
(988)Research Department, Eastern Scientific LLC, Richmond, KY, USA; Department 
of Health Promotion and Administration, Eastern Kentucky University, Richmond, 
KY, USA.
(989)Centre for Clinical Pharmacology, University of Defence in Belgrade, 
Belgrade, Serbia; Centre for Clinical Pharmacology, Medical College of Georgia 
at Augusta University, Belgrade, Serbia.
(990)Health Economics and Outcomes Research Department, Agios Pharmaceuticals, 
Cambridge, MA, USA; Department of Pharmaceutical Economics and Policy, 
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Boston, MA, USA.
(991)Department of Medicine, University of Otago, Wellington, New Zealand; 
Department of Neurology, Capital & Coast District Health Board, Wellington, New 
Zealand.
(992)Kasturba Medical College Mangalore, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Manipal, India.
(993)Department of Oral Pathology, Microbiology and Forensic Odontology, 
Sharavathi Dental College and Hospital, Shimogga, India.
(994)Thrombosis Research Group, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Epidemiology, Non-Communicable Diseases 
Research Center (NCDRC), Tehran, Iran.
(995)Non-communicable Diseases Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(996)Department of Immunology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(997)Department of Family Medicine, Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, 
Anuradhapura, Sri Lanka.
(998)Department of Global Health Policy, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(999)Department of Primary Care and Public Health, Imperial College London, 
London, UK; Academic Public Health England, Public Health England, London, UK.
(1000)Department of Biological Sciences, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, 
Egypt; Department of Protein Research, Research and Academic Institution, 
Alexandria, Egypt.
(1001)Department of Pharmacy, Abdul wali Khan University Mardan, Mardan, 
Pakistan.
(1002)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Rafsanjan University of 
Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(1003)Department of Physiology, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, 
Iran; Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(1004)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Connecticut, 
Farmington, CT, USA; Department of Psychiatry, Yale University, New Haven, CT, 
USA.
(1005)The University of Lahore, Lahore, Pakistan.
(1006)Department of Internal Medicine, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, Brazil; Centre of Telehealth, Federal University of Minas Gerais, 
Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(1007)Department of Geography and Demography, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(1008)Department of Nursing in Women's Health, Federal University of São Paulo, 
São Paulo, Brazil; Vaccination Research Observatory, Federal University of Minas 
Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(1009)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Antioquia, 
Medellin, Colombia; Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK.
(1010)Department of Clinical Research, Federal University of Uberlândia, 
Ribeirão Preto, Brazil; Gilbert and Rose-Marie Chagoury School of Medicine, 
Lebanese American University, Beirut, Lebanon.
(1011)Faculty of Nursing, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(1012)Rural Health research Institute, Charles Sturt University, Orange, NSW, 
Australia.
(1013)Department of Analytical and Applied Economics, Utkal University, 
Bhubaneswar, India; RUSA Centre of Excellence in Public Policy and Governance, 
Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, India.
(1014)Faculty of Medicine, Quest International University Perak, Ipoh, Malaysia.
(1015)Department of Labour, Directorate of Factories Government of West Bengal, 
Kolkata, India.
(1016)Department of Epidemiology, Florida International University, Miami, FL, 
USA.
(1017)Advanced Campus Governador Valadares, Juiz de For a Federal University, 
Governador Valadares, Brazil; Nursing Department, Universidade Presidente 
Antônio Carlos (President Antônio Carlos University), Governador Valadares, 
Brazil.
(1018)Department of Cardiology, S. Maria dei Battuti Hospital, Conegliano, 
Italy.
(1019)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Botswana, Gaborone, 
Botswana.
(1020)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Jagadguru Sri 
Shivarathreeswara University, Mysore, India.
(1021)Cardiovascular Department, Zagazig University, Zagazig, Egypt.
(1022)Department of Medical Physics, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, 
Isfahan, Iran.
(1023)Clinical Sciences Department, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab 
Emirates; Department of Medical Pharmacology, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt.
(1024)Department of Medicine, Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA.
(1025)Department of Epidemiology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(1026)Department of Neurology, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(1027)College of Medicine, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; 
School of Population Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(1028)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, International Medical University, 
Gdańsk, Poland.
(1029)Clinical and Biomedical Research Center, Foundation University Islamabad, 
Islamabad, Pakistan; International Center of Medical Sciences Research (ICMSR), 
Islamabad, Pakistan.
(1030)Faculty of Medicine, Bioscience and Nursing, MAHSA University, Selangor, 
Malaysia; Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Biomedical Materials (IRCBM), 
COMSATS Institute of Information Technology, Lahore, Pakistan.
(1031)Department of Psychiatry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi, India.
(1032)Clinical Research Development Center (CRDC), Qom University of Medical 
Sciences, Qom, Iran.
(1033)Department of Psychosocial Science, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(1034)Sharjah Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, 
United Arab Emirates.
(1035)Applied Biomedical Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Biotechnology Research Center, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(1036)Department of Analytical & Applied Economics, Utkal University, 
Bhubaneswar, India.
(1037)Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine, All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, Bathinda, India.
(1038)Department of Statistics, University of Gujrat, Gujrat, Pakistan.
(1039)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University College Hospital, 
Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria; Faculty of Dentistry, University of Puthisastra, Phnom 
Penh, Cambodia.
(1040)Department of Integrated Health Education, Federal University of Espirito 
Santo, Vitória, Brazil.
(1041)College of Medicine, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; 
Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(1042)Technology Management Department, University College of Applied Sciences, 
Gaza, Palestine; School of Economics and Management, University of Kassel, 
Kassel, Germany.
(1043)Department of Global Initiatives, Child Mind Institute, New York, NY, USA; 
Department of Psychiatry and Legal Medicine, Federal University of Rio Grande do 
Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(1044)Department of Neurology, Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin (Charité 
Medical University Berlin), Berlin, Germany; Department of Neurology, University 
of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(1045)Institute of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan; Benang Merah Research Center (BMRC), Minahasa Utara, 
Indonesia.
(1046)Department of Anatomy, Ras Al Khaimah Medical and Health Sciences 
University, Ras Al Khaimah, United Arab Emirates.
(1047)Department of Entomology, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt; Medical Ain 
Shams Research Institute (MASRI), Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(1048)Department of Surgery, Marshall University, Huntington, WV, USA; 
Department of Nutrition and Preventive Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(1049)Department of Internal Medicine, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, 
Brazil; Center for Clinical and Epidemiological Research, University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(1050)Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia; School of 
Public Health and Health Management, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(1051)Pharmacy Study Program, Udayana University, Badung, Indonesia; Department 
of Clinical Pharmacy, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(1052)Department of Pharmacology and Research, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Jodhpur, India; Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute, 
Puducherry, India.
(1053)Department of Public Health, Jahrom University of Medical Sciences, 
Jahrom, Iran; Health Policy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(1054)Department of Oral Pathology and Microbiology, Dr. D. Y. Patil University, 
Pune, India.
(1055)UGC Centre of Advanced Study in Psychology, Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, 
India; Udyam-Global Association for Sustainable Development, Bhubaneswar, India.
(1056)Department of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, 
USA.
(1057)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Jawaharlal Institute of 
Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry, India.
(1058)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, Australian 
National University, Acton, ACT, Australia.
(1059)Education Development Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical 
Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(1060)Department of Neurology, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 
Athens, Greece; Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(1061)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology and Neuroradiology, 
University Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany.
(1062)Dobney Hypertension Centre, The University of Western Australia, Perth, 
WA, Australia; Hypertension and Kidney Disease Laboratory, Baker Heart and 
Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(1063)Department of Health Sciences, Federal University of Santa Catarina, 
Araranguá, Brazil.
(1064)Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA; Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(1065)School of Population Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(1066)Department of Psychology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL, USA.
(1067)Department of Community Oral Health and Clinical Prevention, University of 
Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(1068)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, University of Kentucky, 
Lexington, KY, USA.
(1069)Emergency Department, Manian Medical Centre, Erode, India.
(1070)Public health, Wachemo University, Hossana, Ethiopia.
(1071)Department of Medicine and Surgery, Government Doon Medical College, 
Dehradun, India.
(1072)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institute of Health, 
Rockville, MD, USA.
(1073)Department of Neurology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(1074)Department of Microbiology, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, 
Bangalore, India.
(1075)Department of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(1076)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, The University of 
Lahore, Lahore, Pakistan; Research Centre for Health Sciences (RCHS), The 
University of Lahore, Lahore, Pakistan.
(1077)Department of Chemistry, Institute for Advanced Studies in Basic Sciences 
(IASBS), Zanjan, Iran.
(1078)Center for Medical and Bio-Allied Health Sciences Research, Ajman 
University, Ajman, United Arab Emirates.
(1079)Independent Consultant, Karachi, Pakistan.
(1080)Neurology Department, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(1081)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Jodhpur, India.
(1082)School of Medicine, Alborz University of Medical Sciences, Karaj, Iran.
(1083)Center for Medical and Bio-Allied Health Sciences Research, Ajman 
University, Ajman, United Arab Emirates; Centre For Interdisciplinary Research 
In Basic Sciences (CIRBSc), Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi, India.
(1084)Science Department, Kazakh National Medical University, Almaty, 
Kazakhstan.
(1085)Amity Institute of Public Health, Amity University, Noida, India.
(1086)Department for Evidence-based Medicine and Evaluation, University for 
Continuing Education Krems, Krems, Austria; Research Center for Rational Use of 
Drugs, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(1087)Nahavand School of Allied Medical Sciences, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, Nahavand, Iran.
(1088)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea.
(1089)Department of Hemato-oncology, Fortis Hospital, Noida, India.
(1090)Department of Social and Behavioral Health, University of Nevada Las 
Vegas, Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(1091)Department of Nephrology, Vardhman Mahavir Medical College, New Delhi, 
India.
(1092)Institute of Forensic Science & Criminology, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, India.
(1093)Department of Health in Disasters and Emergencies, Shahrekord University 
of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.
(1094)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Manipal Academy of Higher 
Education, Mangalore, India.
(1095)K S Hegde Medical Academy, Nitte University, Mangalore, India.
(1096)Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Mangalore, India.
(1097)Department of Public Health, Dambi Dollo University, Dembi Dollo, 
Ethiopia; Department of Epidemiology, Jimma University, Jimma, Ethiopia.
(1098)National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.
(1099)Deparment of Pharmacology, Saint Paul's Hospital Millennium Medical 
College, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(1100)Korea University, Seoul, South Korea.
(1101)Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, Finland.
(1102)Department of Veterinary Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Usmanu 
Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, Sokoto, Nigeria.
(1103)Department of Medicine, Ladoke Akintola University, Ogbomoso, Nigeria.
(1104)Oulu Business School, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland; Martti Ahtisaari 
Institute, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(1105)Department of Medical-Surgical Nursing, Mazandaran University of Medical 
Sciences, Sari, Iran; Department of Nursing and Health Sciences, Flinders 
University, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(1106)School of Pharmacy, Monash University, Subang Jaya, Malaysia; Department 
of Research, Kathmandu Cancer Center, Bhaktapur, Nepal.
(1107)The Cooper Institute, Dallas, TX, USA.
(1108)School of Risk and Actuarial Studies, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(1109)Unit of Basic Medical Sciences, University of Khartoum, Khartoum, Sudan; 
Department of Medical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, Erasmus University, 
Rotterdam, Netherlands.
(1110)Department of Culture, Anthropological Survey of India, Kolkata, India.
(1111)Sport Physical Activity and Health Research & Innovation Center (SPRINT), 
Polytechnic Institute of Guarda, Guarda, Portugal; CICS-UBI Health Sciences 
Research Center, University of Beira Interior, Covilhã, Portugal.
(1112)Department of Dentistry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhopal, 
India.
(1113)Department of Biochemistry, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, India.
(1114)Department of Community Medicine, Lady Hardinge Medical College, New 
Delhi, India; Department of Community Medicine, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Jodhpur, India.
(1115)Department of Pharmacology, Government Medical College and Hospital, 
Chandigarh, India.
(1116)School of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA; Medicine 
Service, US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Houston, TX, USA.
(1117)Department of Pediatrics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences Jodhpur, 
Jodhpur, India.
(1118)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Shree Guru Gobind Singh 
Tricentenary University, Gurugram, India.
(1119)Department of Radiodiagnosis, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Bathinda, India.
(1120)Department of Human Genetics, Punjabi University, Patiala, India.
(1121)Department of Neurology, North Karelia Central Hospital, Joensuu, Finland; 
Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(1122)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, USA.
(1123)Clinical Branch, Moscow Research and Practical Centre on Addictions, 
Moscow, Russia; Addiction Psychiatry Department, Russian Medical Academy of 
Continuous Professional Education, Moscow, Russia.
(1124)Department of Infectious Diseases and Epidemiology, Pirogov Russian 
National Research Medical University, Moscow, Russia.
(1125)Division of Injury Prevention, The Bizzell Group, Atlanta, GA, USA; 
Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(1126)Department of General Surgery, Carol Davila University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania; Department of Surgery, "Sf. Pantelimon" Emergency 
Clinical Hospital Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania.
(1127)School of Health and Biomedical Science, Royal Melbourne Institute of 
Technology (RMIT) University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(1128)Department of Systemic Pathology, Touro College of Osteopathic Medicine, 
Middletown, NY, USA; Department of Pathology, American University of the 
Caribbean School of Medicine, Cupecoy, Saint Martin.
(1129)Department of Biochemistry, American University of Integrative Sciences, 
Bridgetown, Barbados.
(1130)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Debre Berhan University, Debre Berhan, 
Ethiopia.
(1131)Institute of Child and Adolescent Health, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.
(1132)Urmia University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(1133)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA; Department of Global Health, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(1134)Department of Radiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL, USA.
(1135)Hull York Medical School, University of Hull, Hull City, UK.
(1136)3rd Department of Cardiology, University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(1137)Division of Community Medicine and Public Health, International Medical 
University, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(1138)Pharmacology, RAK Medical and Health Sciences University, Ras Al Khaimah, 
United Arab Emirates.
(1139)2nd Department of Cardiology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(1140)Nutrition and Dietetics Department, Federal Research Institute of 
Nutrition, Biotechnology and Food Safety, Moscow, Russia; Department of Internal 
Disease, Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University, Moscow, Russia.
(1141)Central Department of Public Health, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, 
Nepal; School of Exercise and Nutrition Sciences, Deakin University, Melbourne, 
VIC, Australia.
(1142)Department of Medical Sciences, Sunway University, Subang Jaya, Malaysia.
(1143)Center for Biotechnology and Microbiology, University of Swat, Swat, 
Pakistan; School of Life Sciences, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(1144)Mental Health Research Consultant, Independent Consultant, Khulna, 
Bangladesh; Division of Global Mental Health, EviSyn Health, Khulna, Bangladesh.
(1145)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Selangor, 
Malaysia.
(1146)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden; The 
George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(1147)Department of Neurology, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, India.
(1148)Nursing Professional Education Study Program, University Halu Oleo, 
Kendari, Indonesia; School of Nursing, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(1149)Department of Analytical and Applied Economics, Utkal University, 
Bhubaneswar, India.
(1150)Henry JN Taub Department of Emergency Medicine, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, TX, USA; Department of Clinical Research and Development, 
LUXMED Group, Warsaw, Poland.
(1151)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Deoghar, India.
(1152)Department of Neurology, Neurocenter of Southern Switzerland (NSI), 
Lugano, Switzerland.
(1153)Department of Medicine, University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain; Carlos 
III Health Institute, Biomedical Research Networking Center for Mental Health 
Network (CiberSAM), Madrid, Spain.
(1154)Department of Medical Informatics, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran; Clinial Research Development Unit, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(1155)Department of Medical Education, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(1156)Department of Primary Care and Public Health, Imperial College London, 
London, UK.
(1157)Department of Pharmacology, Shaqra University, Shaqra, Saudi Arabia.
(1158)Dentistry and Oral Health, Rural Clinical Sciences, La Trobe University, 
Bendigo, VIC, Australia.
(1159)School of Dentistry and Oral Health, Griffith University, Gold Coast, QLD, 
Australia.
(1160)Department of Infectious Disease, Mazandaran University of Medical 
Sciences, Sari, Iran; Department of Dermatology, Mazandaran University of 
Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(1161)Department of Environmental, Agricultural and Occupational Health, 
University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, USA; Sri Ramachandra Medical 
College and Research Institute, Chennai, India.
(1162)Clinical Sciences Department, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab 
Emirates; Department of Pathology, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(1163)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, Australian 
National University, Acton, ACT, Australia; Statistics Discipline, Khulna 
University, Khulna, Bangladesh.
(1164)Department of Dermatology, Carol Davila University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania; Department of Dermato-Venereology, Dr. Victor 
Babes Clinical Hospital of Infectious Diseases and Tropical Diseases, Bucharest, 
Romania.
(1165)Department of Epidemiology, Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South 
Africa; Department of Medicine, Northlands Medical Group, Omuthiya, Namibia.
(1166)Department of Surgery, National University of Singapore, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(1167)State Key Laboratory of Numerical Modeling for Atmospheric Sciences and 
Geophysical Fluid Dynamics (LASG), Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(1168)National Research and Innovation Agency, Jakarta, Indonesia.
(1169)Department of Population and Behavioural Sciences, University of Health 
and Allied Sciences, Ho, Ghana; School of Nursing and Public Health, University 
of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban, South Africa.
(1170)Department of Economics, Rice University, Houston, TX, USA; Department of 
Research and Innovation, Enventure Medical Innovation, Houston, TX, USA.
(1171)Department of Pathology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(1172)Preventive Medicine and Public Health Research Center, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Department of Community and Family Medicine, 
Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(1173)Department of Urology, Sabzevar University of Medical Sciences, Sabzevar, 
Iran.
(1174)Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(1175)College of Pharmacy, Alfaisal University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(1176)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(1177)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Mekelle 
University, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(1178)Department of Public Health, Wollega University, Nekemte, Ethiopia.
(1179)School of Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology 
Mandi, Mandi, India.
(1180)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Raipur, India.
(1181)Eastern Health Clinical School, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(1182)Institute of Applied Health Research, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, UK; Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(1183)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, 
GA, USA.
(1184)Department of Global Health, Sustainable Policy Solutions Foundation, 
South Yatta, VIC, Australia.
(1185)Department of Gastroenterology, St. Luke's Hospital, Patanamthitta, India.
(1186)Department of Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(1187)Faculty of Biomedical Engineering, Czech Technical University, Prague, 
Czech Republic.
(1188)Faculty of Public Health, Universitas Sam Ratulangi (Sam Ratulangi 
University), Manado, Indonesia.
(1189)Wollo University, Dessie, Ethiopia.
(1190)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Birjand University of 
Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran; Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 
Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(1191)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(1192)Institute of Public Health, Jagiellonian University Medical College, 
Kraków, Poland; Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tariff System, 
Warsaw, Poland.
(1193)Saveetha Dental College and Hospitals, Saveetha University, Chennai, 
India.
(1194)High Institute of Sport and Physical Education of Sfax, University of 
Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia.
(1195)School of Biomedical Engineering, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(1196)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Medicine and Pharmacy at Ho 
Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; Department of Business Analytics, 
University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, Dartmouth, MA, USA.
(1197)Molecular Neuroscience Research Center, Shiga University of Medical 
Science, Shiga, Japan.
(1198)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, 
Pisa, Italy.
(1199)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK; 
Adult Learning Disability Service, Leicestershire Partnership National Health 
Service Trust, Leicester, UK.
(1200)Faculty of Medicine, Nam Can Tho University, Can Tho, Vietnam.
(1201)School of Pharmacy, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan; Centre 
for Neonatal and Paediatric Infection, St George's University of London, London, 
UK.
(1202)Department of Medicine, University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece.
(1203)Department of Psychiatry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada.
(1204)Department of Public Health, Wachemo University, Hossana, Ethiopia.
(1205)Department of Nutrition and Food Studies, George Mason University, 
Fairfax, VA, USA; School of Nursing, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong 
Kong, China.
(1206)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(1207)Natural and Medical Sciences Research Center, University of Nizwa, Nizwa, 
Oman.
(1208)Department of Zoology, University of Education Lahore, Lahore, Pakistan; 
Division of Science and Technology, University of Education Lahore, Lahore, 
Pakistan.
(1209)Medical Genomics Research Department, King Abdullah International Medical 
Research Center, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; Department of Life Sciences, University 
of Management and Technology, Lahore, Pakistan.
(1210)Lahore Business School, The University of Lahore, Lahore, Pakistan.
(1211)Department of Cardiovascular, Endocrine-metabolic Diseases and Aging, 
National Institute of Health, Rome, Italy.
(1212)Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases and the Aging Brain, University of 
Bari, Tricase, Italy; Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's 
College London, London, UK.
(1213)Department of Physiotherapy, Bayero University Kano, Kano, Nigeria; 
Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong 
Kong, China.
(1214)Unit of Internal Medicine, ARNAS Garibaldi Hospital, Catania, Italy.
(1215)Faculty of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(1216)Department of Informatics and Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(1217)College of Health and Sport Sciences, University of Bahrain, Zallaq, 
Bahrain.
(1218)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(1219)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(1220)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Debrecen, 
Debrecen, Hungary.
(1221)UKK Institute, Tampere, Finland; Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Technology, Tampere University, Tampere, Finland.
(1222)Department of Zoology, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, India; 
Department of Human Genetics & Molecular Biology, Bharathiar University, 
Coimbatore, India.
(1223)Raffles Neuroscience Centre, Raffles Hospital, Singapore, Singapore; Yong 
Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(1224)Department of Surgery, General University Hospital of Patras, Patras, 
Greece; College of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(1225)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(1226)Department of Physiotherapy, Universidad Europea de Madrid (European 
University of Madrid), Villaviciosa de Odón, Spain.
(1227)Department of Public Health, Experimental and Forensic Medicine, 
University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.
(1228)Department of Cardiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, NY, USA.
(1229)Division of Cardiology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(1230)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy 
"Grigore T Popa" Iasi, Iaşi, Romania; Department of Medical Oncology, Regional 
Institute of Oncology, Iaşi, Romania.
(1231)Department of Neurosurgery, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
Netherlands; Center for Experimental Microsurgery, Iuliu Hațieganu University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(1232)School of Health Sciences, National University of Sciences and Technology 
(NUST), Islamabad, Pakistan; Gilbert and Rose-Marie Chagoury School of Medicine, 
Lebanese American University, Byblos, Lebanon.
(1233)Department of Interventional Radiology, University of Miami, Miami, FL, 
USA.
(1234)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Surgery, 
Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(1235)School of Public Health, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, China.
(1236)Department of Neurosurgery, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China; 
Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Beijing, China.
(1237)Department of Gastroenterology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Affiliated 
Sixth People's Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(1238)School of Life Course and Population Sciences, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(1239)School of Medicine and Dentistry, Griffith University, Gold Coast, QLD, 
Australia; School of Nursing Sciences, University of Nairobi, Nairobi, Kenya.
(1240)Key Laboratory of Computer-Aided Drug Design, Guangdong Medical 
University, Dongguan, China; Department of Biotechnology and Genetic 
Engineering, Hazara University Mansehra, Mansehra, Pakistan.
(1241)Department of Human Nutrition and Food Sciences, Debre Markos University, 
Debre Markos, Ethiopia.
(1242)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Bahir Dar University, Bahir 
Dar, Ethiopia.
(1243)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Hospital, Xi'an, China.
(1244)Cardiology Department, Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia; Department of Critical Care and Neurosciences, Murdoch Childrens 
Research Institute, Parkville, VIC, Australia.
(1245)Department of Surgery, University of Colombo, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
(1246)Department of Community Medicine, Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, 
Anuradhapura, Sri Lanka.
(1247)Department of Neurology, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia; Department of Medicine, University of Rajarata, Saliyapura 
Anuradhapuraya, Sri Lanka.
(1248)Institute of Clinical Epidemiology, Public Health, Health Economics, 
Medical Statistics and Informatics, Medical University Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria; Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.
(1249)School of Lifecourse and population sciences, King's College London, 
London, UK; NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Guy's and St. Thomas' Hospital and 
Kings College London, London, UK.
(1250)School of Pharmacy, Monash University, Subang Jaya, Malaysia.
(1251)Global Health and Health Security Department, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(1252)Global Health Research Center, Duke Kunshan University, Kunshan, China; 
Duke Global Health Institute, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(1253)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, MI, USA.
(1254)Clinical Psychology Department, City Health Center, Suzhou, China.
(1255)Division of Gastroenterology, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan, China.
(1256)School of Public Health, Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, China; Department 
of Public Health Science, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, 
USA.
(1257)Department of Endocrinology, University of Science and Technology of 
China, Hefei, China; School of Medicine, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, 
USA.
(1258)School of Population Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Cardiovascular Program, The George Institute for Global Health, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(1259)Department of Public Health, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan; Department 
of Public Health Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan.
(1260)Department of Epidemiology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(1261)Faculty of Medicine, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan.
(1262)Department of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran; Department of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 
Iran.
(1263)Research Center of Physiology, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, 
Semnan, Iran.
(1264)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka University, Suita, Japan.
(1265)Department of Public Health and Health Systems, Nagoya University, Nagoya, 
Japan; Department of Public Health and Health Systems, Nagoya University, 
Nagoya, Japan.
(1266)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA; Department of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(1267)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China; 
The George Institute for Global Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(1268)Manipal College of Nursing, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Udupi, 
India.
(1269)Biostatics, Epidemiology, and Science Computing Department, King Faisal 
Specialist Hospital & Research Center, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(1270)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore, Singapore; KHANA Center for Population Health Research, Phnom Penh, 
Cambodia.
(1271)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Military Medical University, 
Chongqing, China.
(1272)Department of Epidemiology, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, China.
(1273)Department of Pediatrics, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South Korea.
(1274)Department of Biostatistics, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan; 
Department of Public Health, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan.
(1275)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.
(1276)Department of Epidemiology, Vitalant Research Institute, San Francisco, 
CA, USA; Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(1277)The First Affiliated Hospital, China Medical University, Shenyang, China.
(1278)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacy Administration, University of 
Maiduguri, Maiduguri, Nigeria.
(1279)Association for Socially Applicable Research (ASAR), Pune, India; 
Department of Emergency Medicine, Global Emergency Medicine Innovation and 
Implementation (GEMINI) Research Center, Durham, NC, USA.
(1280)Department of Medical Genetics, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(1281)Basic Sciences Department, University of Duhok, Duhok, Iraq.
(1282)Department of Health Sciences, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, 
USA.
(1283)Sant'Elia Hospital, University of Catania, Caltanissetta, Italy.
(1284)Research and Development Department, Sina Medical Biochemistry 
Technologies, Shiraz, Iran.
(1285)Students Research Committee, Shahrekord University of Medical Sciences, 
Shahrekord, Iran.
(1286)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(1287)Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutical Sciences, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA; Department of Administration, 
PGxAI, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(1288)School of Population and Global Health, The University of Western 
Australia, Perth, WA, Australia; Institute of Applied Health Research, 
University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(1289)Department of Anesthesiology, Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, China.
(1290)School of Public Health, Peking University, Beijing, China; Department of 
International Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(1291)Medical Oncology Department of Gastrointestinal Cancer, Cancer Hospital of 
Dalian University of Technology, Shenyang, China; School of Biomedical 
Engineering, Dalian University of Technology, Dalian, China.
(1292)School of Public Health, Wuhan University of Science and Technology, 
Wuhan, China; Hubei Province Key Laboratory of Occupational Hazard 
Identification and Control, Wuhan University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 
China.
(1293)Tianjin Medical University General Hospital, Tianjin Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Tianjin, China.
(1294)College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Hebei University, Baoding, China.
(1295)Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(1296)School of Humanities and Management, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(1297)School of Public Health and Emergency Management, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China.
(1298)The Institute of Cancer Research, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Kunming 
Medical University, Kunming, China.
(1299)National Research Institute of Fundamental and Applied Medicine named 
after B. Atchabarov, Kazakh National Medical University, Almaty, Kazakhstan.
(1300)Eye Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(1301)Department of Biochemistry and Pharmacogenomics, Medical University of 
Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(1302)Department of Anatomy, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(1303)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Hormozgan University of 
Medical Sciences, Bandar Abbas, Iran.
(1304)Department of Clinical and Community Pharmacy, An-Najah National 
University, Nablus, Palestine; Clinical Research Centre, An-Najah National 
University, Nablus, Palestine.
(1305)Division of Cardiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA; 
Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle, 
WA, USA; Department of Health Metrics Sciences, School of Medicine, University 
of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(1306)National Institute for Stroke and Applied Neurosciences, Auckland 
University of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand.
(1307)Department of Neurosurgery, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland; National Institute for Stroke and Applied Neurosciences, Auckland 
University of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Up-to-date estimates of stroke burden and attributable risks and 
their trends at global, regional, and national levels are essential for 
evidence-based health care, prevention, and resource allocation planning. We 
aimed to provide such estimates for the period 1990-2021.
METHODS: We estimated incidence, prevalence, death, and disability-adjusted 
life-year (DALY) counts and age-standardised rates per 100 000 people per year 
for overall stroke, ischaemic stroke, intracerebral haemorrhage, and 
subarachnoid haemorrhage, for 204 countries and territories from 1990 to 2021. 
We also calculated burden of stroke attributable to 23 risk factors and six risk 
clusters (air pollution, tobacco smoking, behavioural, dietary, environmental, 
and metabolic risks) at the global and regional levels (21 GBD regions and 
Socio-demographic Index [SDI] quintiles), using the standard GBD methodology. 
95% uncertainty intervals (UIs) for each individual future estimate were derived 
from the 2·5th and 97·5th percentiles of distributions generated from 
propagating 500 draws through the multistage computational pipeline.
FINDINGS: In 2021, stroke was the third most common GBD level 3 cause of death 
(7·3 million [95% UI 6·6-7·8] deaths; 10·7% [9·8-11·3] of all deaths) after 
ischaemic heart disease and COVID-19, and the fourth most common cause of DALYs 
(160·5 million [147·8-171·6] DALYs; 5·6% [5·0-6·1] of all DALYs). In 2021, there 
were 93·8 million (89·0-99·3) prevalent and 11·9 million (10·7-13·2) incident 
strokes. We found disparities in stroke burden and risk factors by GBD region, 
country or territory, and SDI, as well as a stagnation in the reduction of 
incidence from 2015 onwards, and even some increases in the stroke incidence, 
death, prevalence, and DALY rates in southeast Asia, east Asia, and Oceania, 
countries with lower SDI, and people younger than 70 years. Globally, ischaemic 
stroke constituted 65·3% (62·4-67·7), intracerebral haemorrhage constituted 
28·8% (28·3-28·8), and subarachnoid haemorrhage constituted 5·8% (5·7-6·0) of 
incident strokes. There were substantial increases in DALYs attributable to high 
BMI (88·2% [53·4-117·7]), high ambient temperature (72·4% [51·1 to 179·5]), high 
fasting plasma glucose (32·1% [26·7-38·1]), diet high in sugar-sweetened 
beverages (23·4% [12·7-35·7]), low physical activity (11·3% [1·8-34·9]), high 
systolic blood pressure (6·7% [2·5-11·6]), lead exposure (6·5% [4·5-11·2]), and 
diet low in omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (5·3% [0·5-10·5]).
INTERPRETATION: Stroke burden has increased from 1990 to 2021, and the 
contribution of several risk factors has also increased. Effective, accessible, 
and affordable measures to improve stroke surveillance, prevention (with the 
emphasis on blood pressure, lifestyle, and environmental factors), acute care, 
and rehabilitation need to be urgently implemented across all countries to 
reduce stroke burden.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00369-7
PMCID: PMC12254192
PMID: 39304265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests A Abdelalim reports a 
leadership or fiduciary role in the Middle East and North Africa Stroke 
Organization, unpaid, as Vice President, outside the submitted work. S Afzal 
reports support for the present manuscript from King Edward Medical University 
through the provision of study material, research articles, valid data sources 
and authentic real time information for this manuscript; payment or honoraria 
for educational events and webinars with King Edward Medical University and 
collaborative partners including University of Johns Hopkins, University of 
California, University of Massachusetts, KEMCAANA, and KEMCA_UK; participation 
on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with the National Bioethics 
Committee Pakistan, the King Edward Medical University Ethical Review Board, the 
Ethical Review Board of Fatima Jinnah Medical University and Sir Ganga Ram 
Hospital, and being a member of the Technical Working Group on Infectious 
Diseases; other financial and non-financial interests in King Edward Medical 
University, Annals of King Edward Medical University, Quality Enhancement Cell 
King Edward Medical University, Faculty of Public Health United Kingdom, 
Scientific Session, KEMCA-UK, International Scientific Conference, KEMCAANA, 
Research and Publications Higher Education Commission Pakistan, Research and 
Journals Committee Pakistan, Medical and Dental Council Pakistan, National 
Bioethics Committee Pakistan, Corona Experts Advisory Group, Technical Working 
Group on Infectious Diseases, Dengue Experts Advisory Group, Punjab Residency 
Program Research Committee, all outside the submitted work. R Akinyemi reports 
grants U19AG074865, U19 AG076581and R01AG072547 from the US National Institutes 
of Health/National Institute of Aging, GBHI ALZ UK-21- 24204 from the 
Alzheimer's Association and the Global Brain Health Institute, UK Royal 
Society/African Academy of Sciences FLAIR Grants FLR/R1/191813 and 
FCG/R1/201034, and GCRF Networking Grant from the UK Academy of Medical 
Sciences, all outside the submitted work. A Al-Ibraheem reports grants or 
contracts and support for attending meetings and/or travel from King Hussein 
Cancer Center, International Atomic Energy Agency; consulting fees from 
University of Jordan; leadership or fiduciary role, paid or unpaid, with Arab 
Society of Nuclear Medicine, and Asia Oceania Federation of Nuclear medicine and 
biology; all outside the submitted work. R Ancuceanu reports payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from AbbVie, Laropharm, and Reckitt, outside the submitted 
work. J Ärnlöv reports payment or honoraria for lectures from AstraZeneca and 
Novartis; participation on an Advisory Board with AstraZeneca and Astella; all 
outside the submitted work. M Ausloos reports grants or contracts from the 
project “A better understanding of socio-economic systems using quantitative 
methods from Physics” funded by European Union – NextgenerationEU and Romanian 
Government, under National Recovery and Resilience Plan for Romania, contract 
no.760034/ 23.05.2023, cod PNRR-C9-I8-CF 255/ 29.11.2022, through the Romanian 
Ministry of Research, Innovation and Digitalization, within Component 9, 
Investment I8, outside the submitted work. O C Baltatu reports grants or 
contracts from National Council for Scientific and Technological Development 
(CNPq, 304224/2022-7) and the Anima Institute through an AI research professor 
fellowship; leadership or fiduciary role, paid or unpaid, with Health and 
Biotechnology Advisory Board at Technology Park São José dos Campos – Center for 
Innovation in Health Technologies (CITS), outside the submitted work. T W 
Bärnighausen reports grants or contracts from National Institutes of Health, 
Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, German National Research Foundation (DFG), 
European Union, German Ministry of Education and Research, German Ministry of 
the Environment, Wellcome, and KfW; payment or honoraria for serving as 
Editor-in-Chief of PLOS Medicine; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring 
Board or Advisory Board, unpaid, with NIH-funded research projects in Africa on 
Climate Change and Health; stocks in CHEERS, an SME focusing on approaches to 
measure climate change and health-related variables in population cohorts; all 
outside the submitted work. S Bhaskar reports grants or contracts from Japan 
Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS), Japanese Ministry of Education, 
Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) through Grant-in-Aid for 
Scientific Research (KAKENHI), and from JSPS and the Australian Academy of 
Science through the JSPS International Fellowship; leadership or fiduciary role, 
paid or unpaid, with National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center, Suita, Osaka, 
Japan, NSW Brain Clot Bank, Sydney, Australia, Rotary District 9675, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia, Global Health & Migration Hub Community, Global Health Hub 
Germany, Berlin, Germany, PLOS One, BMC Neurology, Frontiers in Neurology, 
Frontiers in Stroke, Frontiers in Aging, Frontiers in Public Health & BMC 
Medical Research Methodology, College of Reviewers, Canadian Institutes of 
Health Research (CIHR), Government of Canada, Cardiff University Biobank, 
Cardiff, UK, Cariplo Foundation, Milan, Italy, Pandemic Health System REsilience 
PROGRAM (REPROGRAM) Consortium; all outside the submitted work. B Bikbov reports 
grants or contracts with European Commission, Politecnico di Milano, and 
University of Rome; support for attending meetings and/or travel from European 
Renal Association; leadership or fiduciary role, unpaid, with Advocacy Group, 
International Society of Nephrology and Western Europe Regional Board, 
International Society of Nephrology; other non-financial in 
Scientific-Tools.org; all outside the submitted work. A Biswas reports 
consulting fees from Lupin Pharmaceuticals India, Intas Pharmaceuticals India, 
Alkem Laboratories India, and Eisai Pharmaceuticals India, all outside the 
submitted work. E J Boyko reports Payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Korean Diabetes Association, Diabetes Association of the R.O.C. (Taiwan), 
American Diabetes Association, and the International Society for the Diabetic 
Foot; support for attending meetings and/or travel from Korean Diabetes 
Association, Diabetes Association of the R.O.C. (Taiwan), and International 
Society for the Diabetic Foot; all outside the submitted work. A L Catapano 
reports grants or contracts from Amryt Pharma, Menarini, and Ultragenyx; payment 
or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing 
or educational events from Amarin, Amgen, Amryt Pharma, AstraZeneca, Daiichi 
Sankyo Esperion Ionis Pharmaceutical Medscaper, Menarini, Merck, Novartis, 
NovoNordisk, Peervoice Pfizer Recordati Regeneron, Sandoz, Sanofi The Corpus, 
Ultragenyx, and Viatris; all outside the submitted work. S Das reports a 
leadership or fiduciary role, unpaid, with association of Diagnostic & 
Laboratory Medicine India Chapter and Women in Global Health India, outside the 
submitted work. A Demetriades reports Leadership or fiduciary role, paid or 
unpaid as the Immediate Past President, European Association of Neurosurgical 
Societies (EANS) and Vice-President, Global Neuro Foundation, outside the 
submitted work. A Faro reports support for the present manuscript from National 
Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq) through a 
scholarship. M Foschi reports consulting fees from Novartis and Roche; support 
for attending meetings and/or travel from Roche, Novartis, Biogen, 
Bristol-Meyer, Merck, and Sanofi; leadership or fiduciary role with MSBase 
Foundation as a member of the scientific leadership group; all outside the 
submitted work. R Franklin reports support for attending meetings and/or travel 
from ACTM – Tropical Medicine and Travel Medicine Conference 2022, 2023 and ISTM 
– Travel Medicine Conference, Basel 2023; leadership or fiduciary role, paid or 
unpaid, as Director of Kidsafe, Director of Auschem, Governance Committee of 
ISASH, Director of Farmsafe, SIG Convenor of PHAA Injury Prevention, and Vice 
President of ACTM; all outside the submitted work. A Guha reports grants or 
contracts from American Heart Association and Department of Defense; consulting 
fees from Pfizer and Novartis; leadership or fiduciary role, paid or unpaid, 
with ZERO Prostate Cancer – health equity task force; all outside the submitted 
work. G J Hankey reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from American Heart 
Association (for serving as Associate Editor of Circulation) Janssen (Johnson & 
Johnson) (for serving as Co-chair of Executive Committee, Librexia Stroke Trial, 
and lectures at sponsored scientific symposia), outside the submitted work. N E 
Ismail reports leadership or fiduciary role, unpaid, with Malaysian Academy of 
Pharmacy, Malaysia, and Malaysian Pharmacists Society Education Chapter, 
Malaysia, all outside the submitted work. T Joo reports support for the present 
manuscript from National Research, Development and Innovation Office in Hungary 
(RRF-2.3.1-21-2022-00006, Data-Driven Health Division of National Laboratory for 
Health Security) for funding of participation in the research project. J J 
Jozwiak reports Payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Novartis, ADAMED, and 
Amgen; outside the submitted work. K Krishan reports non-financial support from 
the UGC Centre of Advanced Study, CAS II, awarded to the Department of 
Anthropology, Panjab University, Chandigarh, India, outside the submitted work. 
B Lacey reports support for the present manuscript from UK Biobank, funded 
largely by the UK Medical Research Council and Wellcome. P M Lavados reports 
grants from Boehringer Ingelheim; consulting fees from Boehringer Ingelheim for 
LATAM Stroke Projects Mentorship; payment or honoraria for lectures from 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Ferrer, Pfizer, and Novartis; support for attending 
Southamerican Angels meetings from Boehringer Ingelheim; participation on a Data 
Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Janssen, BMS, and Pfizer; 
leadership or fiduciary role, paid or unpaid, with Chilean Stroke Association 
(ACEVE) and Iberoamerican Stroke Society (SIECV-IASO); all outside the submitted 
work. M Li reports grants or contracts from the National Science and Technology 
Council, Taiwan (NSTC 112-2410-H-003-031; leadership or fiduciary role, paid or 
unpaid, as Technical Editor, Journal of the American Heart Association; all 
outside the submitted work. D Lindholm reports previous stock options and other 
financial or non-financial interests in AstraZeneca as a former employee, 
outside the submitted work. W Lo report stock or stock options in Abbott Lab, 
Amgen, Becton Dickson, Bristol Myers Squibb, Cardinal Health, GE Healthcare, 
Illumina, McKesson, Merck, Moderna, Pfizer, and Walgreens Boots, outside the 
submitted work. S Lorkowski reports grants or contracts from dsm-firmenich 
(formerly DSM Nutritional Products) as payments to their institution; consulting 
fees from Danone, Novartis Pharma, and Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI); payment 
or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing 
or educational events from AMARIN Germany, Amedes Holding, Amgen, Berlin-Chemie, 
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, Daiichi Sankyo Deutschland, Danone, Hubert Burda 
Media Holding, Janssen-Cilag, Lilly Deutschland, Novartis Pharma, Novo Nordisk 
Pharma, Roche Pharma, Sanofi-Aventis, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI), SYNLAB 
Holding Deutschland; support for attending meetings and/or travel from AMGEN; 
participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board from AMGEN, 
Daiichi Sankyo Deutschland, Novartis Pharma, Sanofi-Aventis; all outside the 
submitted work. L G Manotvani reports support for the present manuscript from 
the Italian Ministry of Health, Ministero della Salute, Ricerca Corrente, IRCCS 
Istituto Auxologico Italiano.H R Marateb reports support for their participation 
in present manuscript from Beatriu de Pinós post-doctoral programme from the 
Office of the Secretary of Universities and Research from the Ministry of 
Business and Knowledge of the Government of Catalonia programme: (2020 BP 
00261). S Meo reports grants or contracts from Researchers Supporting Project, 
King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia (RSP-2024 R47), outside the submitted 
work. L Monasta reports support for the present manuscript from the Italian 
Ministry of Health (Ricerca Corrente 34/2017), payments made to the Institute 
for Maternal and Child Health IRCCS Burlo Garofolo. R Moreira reports grants or 
contracts from CNPq (National Council for Scientific and Technological 
Development, scholarship registration number 316607/2021-5) outside the 
submitted work. S Muthu reports receiving the Luiz Vialle Award 2024 for travel 
support to attend Global Spine Congress 2024 from AO Spine International; 
leadership or fiduciary role with SICOT Awards Committee, AO Spine Associate 
Knowledge Forum, ICRS Next-Gen Committee; all outside the submitted work. S 
Nomura reports grants from Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and 
Technology of Japan (21H03203), and Precursory Research for Embryonic Science 
and Technology from the Japan Science and Technology Agency (JPMJPR22R8); 
outside the submitted work. B Norrving reports participation on a data safety or 
monitoring board or advisory board with Simbec-Orion (HOVID Trial); outside the 
submitted work. A Oneil reports grants or contracts from the National Health and 
Medical Research Council via her institution (#2009295); payment or honoraria 
for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from the Exercise & Sports Science Australia conference for an invited 
presentation; outside the submitted work. A P Okekunle reports support for the 
present manuscript from National Research Foundation of Korea funded by the 
Ministry of Science and ICT (2020H1D3A1A04081265); support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from National Research Foundation of Korea funded by the 
Ministry of Science and ICT (2020H1D3A1A04081265); all outside the submitted 
work. R Ornello reports institutional grants from Novartis, consulting fees from 
Teva; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from Eli Lilly, Novartis, Pfizer, Teva, 
AbbVie, and Lundbeck; support for attending meetings or travel from Teva; 
participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Eli 
Lilly; leadership or fiduciary role with The Journal of Headache and Pain 
Editorial Board, and Frontiers in Neurology Headache and Neurogenic Pain 
Section; receipt of payment of publication fees from Novartis and AbbVie; all 
outside the submitted work. A Ortiz reports grants to their institute from 
Sanofi and Catedra Mundipharma-UAM of diabetic kidney disease and the Catedra 
AstraZeneca-UAM of chronic kidney disease and electrolytes; consultancy or 
speaker fees Advicciene , Astellas, AstraZeneca, Amicus, Amgen, 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, Fresenius Medical Care, GSK, Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, 
Menarini, Kyowa Kirin, Alexion, Idorsia, Chiesi, Otsuka, Novo-Nordisk and Vifor 
Fresenius Medical Care Renal Pharma; travel support from Advicciene , Astellas, 
AstraZeneca, Fresenius Medical Care, Boehringer-Ingelheim Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, 
Menarini, Chiesi, Otsuka, Sysmex; leadership or fiduciary role, unpaid, with 
Council ERA. SOMANE; all outside the submitted work. E Ortiz-Prado reports 
grants or contracts from Universidad de las Americas, Quito-Ecuador outside the 
submitted work. R Palma-Alvarez reports payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Angelini, Casen Recordarti, Lundbeck, Rubió, Takeda, Servier, and Neuraxpharm; 
support for attending meetings or travel from Angelini, Casen Recordati, Takeda, 
Italfarmaco, Lundbeck, and Janssen; all outside the submitted work. R Passera 
reports participation on Data Safety Monitoring Board dello studio 
“Consolidation with ADCT-402 (loncastuximab tesirine) after immunochemotherapy: 
a phase II study in BTKi-treated/ineligible Relapse/Refractory Mantle Cell 
Lymphoma (MCL) patients” - FIL, Fondazione Italiana Linfomi, Alessandria; 
leadership or fiduciary role, unpaid, as a Member of the EBMT Statistical 
Committee, European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Paris (F), and 
Past member 2020-2023 (biostatistician) of the IRB/IEC Comitato Etico AO SS. 
Antonio e Biagio Alessandria-ASL AL-VC; all outside the submitted work. A E 
Peden reports support for the present manuscript from [Australian] National 
Health and Medical Research Council (Grant Number: APP2009306). A Rane reports 
being a full-time employee of Agios Pharmaceuticals and owning stock and stock 
options, outside the submitted work. S Sacco reports grants or contracts from 
Novartis and Uriach; consulting fees from Novartis, Allergan-AbbVie, Teva, 
Lilly, Lundbeck, Pfizer, NovoNordisk, Abbott, and AstraZeneca; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Novartis, Allergan-Abbvie, Teva, Lilly, Lundbeck, 
Pfizer, NovoNordisk, Abbott, AstraZeneca; support for attending meetings and/or 
travel Lilly, Novartis, Teva, Lundbeck, and Pfizer; leadership or fiduciary role 
in other board, society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid, with 
President European Stroke Organisation, and as Editor-in-Chief Cephalalgia; 
receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing, gifts or other services 
from Allergan-AbbVie, NovoNordisk; all outside the submitted work. Y L Samodra 
reports grants or contracts from FK Unpar, Indonesia; leadership or fiduciary 
role in other board, society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid, with 
Benang Merah Research Center, Indonesia; all outside the submitted work. J 
Sanabria reports support for attending meetings and/or travel from Continuous 
Medical Education (CME) funds from Marshall University School of Medicine; 
participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Quality 
officer for the Department of Surgery; leadership or fiduciary role in other 
board, society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid, with SSAT, ACS, 
IHPBA, American Board of Surgery; all outside the submitted work. N Scarmeas 
reports grants or contracts from Novo Nordisk through funding to their 
institution; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board 
with the Multicultural Healthy Diet to Reduce Cognitive Decline & AD Risk NIH 
Funded Study at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, and with Primus AD through 
a Public Private funded Phase II study in Germany; all outside the submitted 
work. B M Schaarschmidt reports grants from Else Kröner-Fresenius Foundation, 
Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, and PharmaCept; payment or honoraria for 
lectures from AstraZeneca; support for travel from Bayer AG; all outside the 
submitted work. A E Schutte reports grants or contracts from National Health and 
Medical Research Council of Australia, and the Medical Research Future Fund, 
Australia; consulting fees from Skylabs, Abbott, and Servier; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Abbott, Servier, Sanofi, Omron, Medtronic, and Aktiia; 
support for attending meetings or travel from Medtronic and Servier; leadership 
or fiduciary role, paid or unpaid, as Co-Chair National Hypertension Taskforce 
of Australia; all outside the submitted work. A Sharifan reports Leadership or 
fiduciary role, unpaid, with Cochrane Early Career Professionals Network; 
receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing, gifts or other services 
from Elsevier and Cochrane; all outside the submitted work. V Sharma reports 
other financial or non-financial interests in DFSS (MHA)'s research project 
(DFSS28(1)2019/EMR/6) at Institute of Forensic Science & Criminology, Panjab 
University, Chandigarh, India, outside the submitted work. S Shrestha reports 
other financial or non-financial interests in the School of Pharmacy, Monash 
University Malaysia, and the Graduate Research Merit Scholarship, outside the 
submitted work. J Silva reports support for the present manuscript from 
Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology through salary payments 
(contract with reference 2021.01789.CEECIND/CP1662/CT0014). L R Silva reports 
grants or contracts from project code CENTRO-04-3559-FSE-000162, Fundo Social 
Europeu (FSE), outside the submitted work. J A Singh reports consulting fees 
from ROMTech, Atheneum, Clearview healthcare partners, American College of 
Rheumatology, Yale, Hulio, Horizon Pharmaceuticals, DINORA, Frictionless 
Solutions, Schipher, Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, PK Med, Two labs, Adept 
Field Solutions, Clinical Care options, Putnam associates, Focus forward, 
Navigant consulting, Spherix, MedIQ, Jupiter Life Science, UBM, Trio Health, 
Medscape, WebMD, and Practice Point communications; and the National Institutes 
of Health; Payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events on the speakers bureau of Simply 
Speaking; Support for attending meetings and/or travel from OMERACT as a 
steering committee member; Participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or 
Advisory Board with the FDA Arthritis Advisory Committee; Leadership or 
fiduciary role in other board, society, committee or advocacy group, paid as a 
past steering committee member of the OMERACT, an international organisation 
that develops measures for clinical trials and receives arm's length funding 
from 12 pharmaceutical companies, unpaid as Chair of the Veterans Affairs 
Rheumatology Field Advisory Committee, and unpaid as the Editor and Director of 
the UAB Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group Satellite Center on Network 
Meta-analysis; stock or stock options in Atai life sciences, Kintara 
therapeutics, Intelligent Biosolutions, Acumen pharmaceutical, TPT Global Tech, 
Vaxart pharmaceuticals, Atyu biopharma, Adaptimmune Therapeutics, GeoVax Labs, 
Pieris Pharmaceuticals, Enzolytics, Seres Therapeutics, Tonix Pharmaceuticals 
Holding Corp., Aebona Pharmaceuticals, and Charlotte's Web Holdings, Inc. and 
previously owned stock options in Amarin, Viking, and Moderna Pharmaceuticals; 
all outside the submitted work. J Sipila reports grants or contracts from Siun 
Sote Foundation and Eemil Aaltonen Foundation; payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Novartis; support for attending meetings and/or travel from 
Lundbeck; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with 
Boehringer-Ingelheim and Sandoz; stock or stock options in Orion Corp; all 
outside the submitted work. J Sundstrom reports direct or indirect stock 
ownership in companies (Anagram kommunikation AB, Sence Research AB, Symptoms 
Europe AB, MinForskning AB) providing services to companies and authorities in 
the health sector including Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boehringer, Eli Lilly, 
Gilead, GSK, Göteborg University, Itrim, Ipsen, Janssen, Karolinska Institutet, 
LIF, Linköping University, Novo Nordisk, Parexel, Pfizer, Region Stockholm, 
Region Uppsala, Sanofi, STRAMA, Takeda, TLV, Uppsala University, Vifor Pharma, 
WeMind, all outside the submitted work. A G Thrift reports grants or contracts 
from National Health & Medical Research Council (Australia), Heart Foundation 
(Australia), and Stroke Foundation (Australia); outside the submitted work. J H 
V Ticolau reports leadership or fiduciary role, paid or unpaid, with Benang 
Merah Research Center, Indonesia, outside the submitted work. S J Tromans 
reports grants or contracts from NHS Digital, via the Department of Health and 
Social Care, as payments to their institution; leadership or fiduciary role, 
unpaid, with the Academic Secretary for the Neurodevelopmental Psychiatry 
Special Interest Group at the Royal College of Psychiatrists, Editorial Board 
for BMC Psychiatry, Advances in Autism, Advances in Mental Health and 
Intellectual Disability, and Progress in Neurology and Psychiatry; all outside 
the submitted work. P Willeit reports consulting fees from Novartis 
Pharmaceuticals, outside the submitted work. Y Yasufuku reports grants or 
contracts from Shionogi & Co, through funding to their institution, outside the 
submitted work. M Zielinska reports other financial or non-financial interests 
in AstraZeneca as an employee, outside the submitted work.


95. Lancet Neurol. 2024 Oct;23(10):971. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00374-0.

Navigating the roads ahead for Alzheimer's disease.

Stirrups R.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00374-0
PMID: 39304263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Lancet Neurol. 2024 Oct;23(10):957-958. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00370-3.

Amyloid removal and the appearance of brain volume loss.

Hyman BT(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Service, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02129, USA. Electronic address: bhyman@mgh.harvard.edu.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00370-3
PMID: 39304249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I own stock in Novartis, serve on the science 
advisory board of Dewpoint, and have an option for stock. I serve on a 
scientific advisory board or as a consultant for AbbVie, Alexion, Ambagon, 
Aprinoia Therapeutics, Arvinas, Avrobio, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Bioinsights, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Cure Alz Fund, Cell Signaling, Dewpoint Latus, Novartis, 
Pfizer, Sanofi, Sofinnova, TD Cowen, Vigil, Violet, Voyager, and WaveBreak, My 
laboratory is supported by research grants from the National Institutes of 
Health, Cure Alzheimer's Fund, Tau Consortium, and the JPB Foundation, and a 
sponsored research agreement from AbbVie.


97. Lancet Neurol. 2024 Oct;23(10):1025-1034. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00335-1.

Brain volume change following anti-amyloid β immunotherapy for Alzheimer's 
disease: amyloid-removal-related pseudo-atrophy.

Belder CRS(1), Boche D(2), Nicoll JAR(2), Jaunmuktane Z(3), Zetterberg H(4), 
Schott JM(5), Barkhof F(6), Fox NC(7).

Author information:
(1)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, University 
College London, London, UK; Adelaide Medical School, The University of Adelaide, 
Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(2)Clinical Neurosciences, Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(3)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, Queen Square Brain Bank 
for Neurological Disorders, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK.
(4)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, University College London, London, UK; 
Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden; Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen Square 
Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK; Hong Kong Center 
for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region, China; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 
University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(5)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK.
(6)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije 
Universiteit, Amsterdam, Netherlands; Queen Square Institute of Neurology and 
Centre for Medical Image Computing, University College London, London, UK.
(7)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, University 
College London, London, UK. Electronic address: n.fox@ucl.ac.uk.

Erratum in
    Lancet Neurol. 2025 Jun;24(6):e9. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(25)00152-8.

Progressive cerebral volume loss on MRI is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease and 
has been widely used as an outcome measure in clinical trials, with the 
prediction that disease-modifying treatments would slow loss. However, in trials 
of anti-amyloid immunotherapy, the participants who received treatment had 
excess volume loss. Explanations for this observation range from reduction of 
amyloid β plaque burden and related inflammatory changes through to 
treatment-induced toxicity. The excess volume changes are characteristic of only 
those immunotherapies that achieve amyloid β lowering; are compatible with 
plaque removal; and evidence to date does not suggest an association with 
harmful effects. Based on the current evidence, we suggest that these changes 
can be described as amyloid-removal-related pseudo-atrophy. Better understanding 
of the causes and consequences of these changes is important to enable informed 
decisions about treatments. Patient-level analyses of data from the trials are 
urgently needed, along with longitudinal follow-up and neuroimaging data, to 
determine the long-term trajectory of these volume changes and their clinical 
correlates. Post-mortem examination of cerebral tissue from treated patients and 
evaluation of potential correlation with antemortem neuroimaging findings are 
key priorities.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and 
data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(24)00335-1
PMID: 39304242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests DB has been a 
consultant or advisor relating to Alzheimer immunisation programmes for: Elan 
Pharmaceuticals (travel and accommodation) and Biogen (consultancy fees). JARN 
has been a consultant or advisor relating to Alzheimer immunisation programmes 
for: Elan Pharmaceuticals (travel and accommodation), GlaxoSmithKline 
(consultancy fees), Novartis, Roche (consultancy fees), Janssen (consultancy 
fees), Pfizer, Biogen (consultancy fees, travel, and accommodation), and Eisai. 
HZ has served at scientific advisory boards or as a consultant for AbbVie, 
Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry 
Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, 
Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet 
Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, 
Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche; is chair of the 
Alzheimer's Association Global Biomarker Standardization Consortium; is a 
cofounder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg (Brain Biomarker 
Solutions), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program. JMS has 
received tracer from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals (a wholly owned subsidiary of Eli 
Lilly) and Alliance Medical and has consulted for Roche Pharmaceuticals, Biogen, 
and Eli Lilly. FB has received consulting fees from Combinostics, Roche, and 
IXICO; has participated in data safety monitoring or advisory boards for EISAI, 
Biogen, Prothena, and Merck; and is a cofounder of Queen Square Analytics. NCF 
reports consulting fees from Biogen, Eisai, Ionis, Lilly, Roche/Genentech, and 
Siemens—paid to University College London; he has served on a data safety 
monitoring board for Biogen. All other authors declare no competing interests.


98. Neuroscience. 2024 Nov 12;560:56-66. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.09.031.
 Epub 2024 Sep 19.

Glucocorticoids induce HMGB1 release in primary cultured rat cortical microglia.

Hisaoka-Nakashima K(1), Takeuchi Y(1), Saito Y(1), Shimoda T(2), Nakamura Y(1), 
Wang D(3), Liu K(3), Nishibori M(4), Morioka N(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Graduate School of Biomedical & Health Sciences, 
Hiroshima University, Kasumi 1-2-3, Minami-ku, Hiroshima, Japan.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Graduate School of Biomedical & Health Sciences, 
Hiroshima University, Kasumi 1-2-3, Minami-ku, Hiroshima, Japan; Laboratory for 
Pharmacology, Pharmaceuticals Research Center, Asahi Kasei Pharma Co. Ltd., 
632-1 Mifuku, Izunokuni, Shizuoka 410-2321, Japan.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, Shikata, Okayama, Japan.
(4)Department of Translational Research & Drug Development, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, Shikata, 
Okayama, Japan.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Graduate School of Biomedical & Health Sciences, 
Hiroshima University, Kasumi 1-2-3, Minami-ku, Hiroshima, Japan. Electronic 
address: mnori@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.

Stress, a risk factor for major depressive disorder and Alzheimer disease, leads 
to the release of high-mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) protein, which in turn 
causes neuroinflammation. The mechanism underlying stress-induced HMGB1 release 
is unknown, but stress-associated glucocorticoids could be involved. Primary 
cultured rat cortical microglia and neurons were treated with corticosterone, a 
stress-associated glucocorticoid, and HMGB1 release was measured by ELISA and 
western blotting to test this hypothesis. With corticosterone treatment, 
significant HMGB1 was released in microglia but not in neuronal cell cultures. 
HMGB1 mRNA expression and HMGB1 protein expression in microglia were not 
affected by corticosterone treatment. Thus, the source of extracellular HMGB1 
released into the medium is likely to be existing nuclear HMGB1 rather than 
newly synthesized HMGB1. Corticosterone-induced HMGB1 release in microglia 
culture was significantly attenuated by blocking glucocorticoid receptors but 
not mineralocorticoid receptors. Dexamethasone, a selective glucocorticoid 
receptor agonist, and dexamethasone-bovine serum albumin (BSA), a 
membrane-impermeable glucocorticoid receptor agonist used to confirm the 
membrane receptor-mediated effects of glucocorticoids, increased the release of 
HMGB1. Immunocytochemistry showed that HMGB1 translocated from the nucleus to 
the cytoplasm following dexamethasone or dexamethasone-BSA treatment through 
glucocorticoid receptors. The present findings suggest that glucocorticoids 
stimulate microglial membrane glucocorticoid receptors and trigger cytoplasmic 
translocation and extracellular release of nuclear HMGB1. Thus, under stress 
conditions, glucocorticoids induce microglial HMGB1 release, leading to a 
neuroinflammatory state that could mediate neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2024 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.09.031
PMID: 39304023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Takahisa Shimoda is working in 
Laboratory for Pharmacology, Pharmaceuticals Research Center, Asahi Kasei Pharma 
Co. Ltd.. This study was conducted fully independent of the project in the Asahi 
Kasei Pharma Co., Ltd. The other authors declare no conflict of interest.


99. Brain Res Bull. 2024 Oct 15;217:111083. doi:
10.1016/j.brainresbull.2024.111083.  Epub 2024 Sep 18.

Chronic stress induces insulin resistance and enhances cognitive impairment in 
AD.

Rong J(1), Wang Y(1), Liu N(1), Shen L(2), Ma Q(1), Wang M(3), Han B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hebei Hospital, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; Department of Neurology, The First 
Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; Brain Aging 
and Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory of Hebei 
Province, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(2)Clinical Laboratory, The First Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Hebei Hospital, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; Brain Aging and Cognitive Neuroscience 
Laboratory of Hebei Province, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Hebei Hospital, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; Department of Neurology, The First 
Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China; Brain Aging 
and Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory of Hebei 
Province, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. Electronic address: 
Hanbing1987@hebmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Chronic stress can induce the cognitive impairment, and even promote 
the occurrence and development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Evidence has 
suggested that chronic stress impacts on glucose metabolism, and both of these 
have been implicated in AD. Here we focused on the effect of insulin resistance 
in glucose metabolism, and further evaluated the changes in cognition and 
pathology.
METHODS: Male 9-month-old wild-type and APP/PS1 mice were randomly divided into 
4 groups. Mice in the chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) groups were 
exposed for 4 weeks. Homeostatic Model Assessment (HOMA) was utilized to 
evaluate insulin sensitivity. A total of eighty-four genes related to the 
insulin signaling pathway were examined for rapid screening. Additionally, the 
phosphorylated protein expressions of insulin receptors (IR), IR substrate 1 
(IRS1), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and amyloid were detected in the 
hippocampus. Cognitive function was assessed through ethological methods. 
Cognitive function was assessed using both the Morris water maze (MWM) and the 
Passive avoidance test (PAT).
RESULTS: Four weeks of CUMS exposure significantly increased the HOMA value, 
indicating reduced insulin sensitivity. The gene expressions of Insr and Lipe 
were downregulated. Additionally, the analysis revealed a significant 
interaction between the genotype (wild-type vs. APP/PS1) and CUMS treatment on 
the phosphorylated protein expressions of insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1). 
Specifically, CUMS exposure increased the inhibitory phosphorylation site 
(IRS1-pSer636) and decreased the excitatory phosphorylation site (IRS1-pTyr465) 
in the post-insulin receptor signaling pathway within the hippocampus of both 
wild-type and APP/PS1 mice. Moreover, CUMS exposure induced and exacerbated 
cognitive impairments in both wild-type and APP/PS1 mice, as assessed by the 
Morris water maze (MWM) and Passive avoidance test (PAT). However, there was no 
significant effect of CUMS on senile plaque deposition or levels of Aβ42 and 
Aβ40 in wild-type mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic stress significantly affects hippocampal cognitive function 
through insulin resistance and exacerbates AD pathology. This study reveals the 
complex relationship between chronic stress, insulin resistance, and AD, 
providing new insights for developing interventions targeting chronic stress and 
insulin resistance.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2024.111083
PMID: 39304000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare there is no conflict of interest.


100. Neuropharmacology. 2024 Dec 15;261:110159. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2024.110159. Epub 2024 Sep 18.

Anisomycin alleviates cognitive impairments and pathological features in 3xTg-AD 
mice.

Jiao JJ(1), Hu Y(2), Cui YJ(1), Tuo CM(1), Wang YX(3), Li XY(4), Zhang Y(5), Wu 
MN(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China; Key 
Laboratory of Cellular Physiology, Ministry of Education, Shanxi Medical 
University, Taiyuan, China; Key Laboratory of Cellular Physiology in Shanxi 
Province, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China.
(3)School of Basic Medicine, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Third Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, Shanxi 
Bethune Hospital, Shanxi Academy of Medical Sciences Tongji Shanxi Hospital, 
Taiyuan, China.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China. 
Electronic address: yizhang313@163.com.
(6)Department of Physiology Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China; Key 
Laboratory of Cellular Physiology, Ministry of Education, Shanxi Medical 
University, Taiyuan, China; Key Laboratory of Cellular Physiology in Shanxi 
Province, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, China. Electronic address: 
wmna@163.com.

Neuroinflammation plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Anisomycin is a pyrrolidine antibiotic isolated from Streptomyces 
griseolus, which is an efficient anti-inflammatory agent that functions both in 
vivo and in vitro. However, it is not clear whether anisomycin can exert 
neuroprotective effect in AD. In the present study, anisomycin was 
intragastrically administrated to female triple-transgenic AD (3xTg-AD) model 
mice, then Morris water maze test was used to observe the long-term spatial 
memory of mice, the in vivo hippocampal field potential recording was performed 
to evaluate the synaptic plasticity, the Western blot and immunofluorescence 
were employed to detect pathological changes, and the bioinformatics analysis 
was used to predict the potential target of anisomycin exerting effects in AD. 
The results showed that anisomycin ameliorated the long-term spatial memory 
deficits, improved LTP depression and increased the expression of PSD-95, 
reduced the Aβ and tau pathologies, and alleviated the activation of microglia 
and astrocytes in the brains of 3xTg-AD mice. In addition, the results from 
bioinformatics analysis showed that the potential target of anisomycin focused 
on inflammatory pathway. These results indicated that anisomycin exerts 
neuroprotective effects in 3xTg-AD mice by alleviating neuroinflammation, but 
the potential mechanism of anisomycin exerting neuroprotective effects needs to 
be further investigated.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2024.110159
PMID: 39303856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.