1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Dec 13:2024.12.09.627436. doi: 
10.1101/2024.12.09.627436.

Data-driven discovery of cell-type-directed network-correcting combination 
therapy for Alzheimer's disease.

Li Y(1)(2)(3), Serras CP(1)(2), Blumenfeld J(3)(4), Xie M(3), Hao Y(3)(5), Deng 
E(6), Chun YY(6), Holtzman J(6), An A(3)(5), Yoon SY(3), Tang X(1), Rao A(3)(7), 
Woldemariam S(1), Tang A(1)(8), Zhang A(3), Simms J(6), Lo I(6), Oskotsky T(1), 
Keiser MJ(1)(2), Huang Y(3)(4)(5)(7)(9), Sirota M(1)(2)(10).

Author information:
(1)Bakar Computational Health Sciences Institute, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(2)Pharmaceutical Science and Pharmacogenomics Graduate Program, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, Gladstone Institutes, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of California, San Francisco, CA, 
USA.
(5)Gladstone Center for Translational Advancement, Gladstone Institutes, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(6)Gladstone Behavior Core, Gladstone Institutes, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(7)Developmental and Stem Cell Biology Graduate Program, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(8)Bioengineering Graduate Program, University of California, San Francisco and 
University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(9)Departments of Neurology and Pathology, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.

Update in
    Cell. 2025 Oct 2;188(20):5516-5534.e18. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2025.06.035.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by heterogeneous molecular changes across diverse cell types, 
posing significant challenges for treatment development. To address this, we 
introduced a cell-type-specific, multi-target drug discovery strategy grounded 
in human data and real-world evidence. This approach integrates single-cell 
transcriptomics, drug perturbation databases, and clinical records. Using this 
framework, letrozole and irinotecan were identified as a potential combination 
therapy, each targeting AD-related gene expression changes in neurons and glial 
cells, respectively. In an AD mouse model, this combination therapy 
significantly improved memory function and reduced AD-related pathologies 
compared to vehicle and single-drug treatments. Single-nuclei transcriptomic 
analysis confirmed that the therapy reversed disease-associated gene networks in 
a cell-type-specific manner. These results highlight the promise of 
cell-type-directed combination therapies in addressing multifactorial diseases 
like AD and lay the groundwork for precision medicine tailored to 
patient-specific transcriptomic and clinical profiles.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.12.09.627436
PMCID: PMC11661161
PMID: 39713353

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests Y.H. is a co-founder 
and scientific advisory board member of GABAeron Inc. All other authors declare 
no competing interests. Patent on this work was filed in 2024. U.S. Application 
Serial No. 63/603,372


2. Alzheimers Dement (Amst). 2024 Dec 20;16(4):e70047. doi: 10.1002/dad2.70047. 
eCollection 2024 Oct-Dec.

Clinical and demographic factors modify the association between plasma 
phosphorylated tau-181 and cognition.

Bolton CJ(1)(2), Steinbach M(1)(3), Khan OA(1)(4), Liu D(1)(4), O'Malley 
J(1)(3), Dumitrescu L(1)(3), Peterson A(1)(3), Jefferson AL(1)(3), Hohman 
TJ(1)(3), Zetterberg H(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Gifford KA(1)(3); Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Memory and Alzheimer's Center Vanderbilt University Medical Center 
Nashville Tennessee USA.
(2)Department of Medicine Vanderbilt University Medical Center Nashville 
Tennessee USA.
(3)Department of Neurology Vanderbilt University Medical Center Nashville 
Tennessee USA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics Vanderbilt University Medical Center Nashville 
Tennessee USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology The Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg Mölndal Sweden.
(6)Clinical Neurochemistry Lab Sahlgrenska University Hospital Mölndal Sweden.
(7)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease UCL Institute of Neurology London UK.
(8)UK Dementia Research Institute University College London London UK.
(9)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases Hong Kong China.
(10)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health University of Wisconsin-Madison Madison Wisconsin 
USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2023 Nov 04:2023.11.03.23298051. doi: 10.1101/2023.11.03.23298051.

INTRODUCTION: Plasma phosphorylated tau-181 (p-tau181) associations with global 
cognition and memory are clear, but the link between p-tau181 with other 
cognitive domains and subjective cognitive decline (SCD) across the clinical 
spectrum of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and how this association changes based on 
genetic and demographic factors is poorly understood.
METHODS: Participants were drawn from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative (ADNI) and included 1185 adults >55 years of age with plasma p-tau181 
and neuropsychological test data. Linear regression models related plasma 
p-tau181 to neuropsychological composite and SCD scores with follow-up models 
examining plasma p-tau181 interactions with cognitive diagnosis, apolipoprotein 
E (APOE) ε4 carrier status, age, and sex on cognitive outcomes.
RESULTS: Higher plasma p-tau181 level was associated with worse memory, 
executive functioning, and language abilities, and greater informant-reported 
SCD. Visuospatial abilities and self-report SCD were not associated with plasma 
p-tau181. Associations were generally stronger in mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI) or dementia, APOE ε4 carriers, women, and younger participants.
DISCUSSION: Higher levels of plasma p-tau181 are associated with worse 
neuropsychological test performance across multiple cognitive domains; however, 
these associations vary based on disease stage, genetic risk status, age, and 
sex.
HIGHLIGHTS: Greater plasma p-tau181 was associated with lower cognition across 
most domains.Associations between p-tau181 and cognition were modified by age 
and sex.Level of p-tau181 was more strongly associated with cognition in people 
with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease 
Monitoring published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/dad2.70047
PMCID: PMC11659951
PMID: 39713247

Conflict of interest statement: T.J.H. is a member of the scientific advisory 
board for Vivid Genomics (outside the work presented herein). H.Z. has served on 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Alzecure, Biogen, and Roche; and is a 
co‐founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). No other authors 
report any relevant conflicts. Author disclosures are available in the 
Supporting Information.


3. Brain Commun. 2024 Dec 16;6(6):fcae445. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae445. 
eCollection 2024.

Deep learning-based patient stratification for prognostic enrichment of clinical 
dementia trials.

Birkenbihl C(1)(2)(3), de Jong J(4), Yalchyk I(1)(2), Fröhlich H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioinformatics, Fraunhofer Institute for Algorithms and 
Scientific Computing (SCAI), Sankt Augustin 53757, Germany.
(2)Bonn-Aachen International Center for IT, Rheinische 
Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn, Bonn 53115, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston 02114, USA.
(4)Global Computational Biology and Digital Sciences, Boehringer Ingelheim 
Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Ingelheim 55216, Germany.

Dementia probably due to Alzheimer's disease is a progressive condition that 
manifests in cognitive decline and impairs patients' daily life. Affected 
patients show great heterogeneity in their symptomatic progression, which 
hampers the identification of efficacious treatments in clinical trials. Using 
artificial intelligence approaches to enable clinical enrichment trials serves a 
promising avenue to identify treatments. In this work, we used a deep learning 
method to cluster the multivariate disease trajectories of 283 early dementia 
patients along cognitive and functional scores. Two distinct subgroups were 
identified that separated patients into 'slow' and 'fast' progressing 
individuals. These subgroups were externally validated and independently 
replicated in a dementia cohort comprising 2779 patients. We trained a machine 
learning model to predict the progression subgroup of a patient from 
cross-sectional data at their time of dementia diagnosis. The classifier 
achieved a prediction performance of 0.70 ± 0.01 area under the receiver 
operating characteristic curve in external validation. By emulating a 
hypothetical clinical trial conducting patient enrichment using the proposed 
classifier, we estimate its potential to decrease the required sample size. 
Furthermore, we balance the achieved enrichment of the trial cohort against the 
accompanied demand for increased patient screening. Our results show that 
enrichment trials targeting cognitive outcomes offer improved chances of trial 
success and are more than 13% cheaper compared with conventional clinical 
trials. The resources saved could be redirected to accelerate drug development 
and expand the search for remedies for cognitive impairment.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae445
PMCID: PMC11660909
PMID: 39713242

Conflict of interest statement: J.D.J. is an employee of Boehringer Ingelheim 
Pharma GmbH & Co. KG. The company had no influence on the scientific results of 
this study.


4. Brain Commun. 2024 Nov 25;6(6):fcae423. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae423. 
eCollection 2024.

Functional network disruption in cognitively unimpaired autosomal dominant 
Alzheimer's disease: a magnetoencephalography study.

van Nifterick AM(1)(2)(3), de Haan W(1)(3), Stam CJ(2)(3), Hillebrand 
A(2)(4)(5), Scheltens P(1)(3), van Kesteren RE(3)(6), Gouw AA(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC Location VUmc, 1081 HZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Clinical Neurophysiology and MEG Center, Neurology, Amsterdam UMC Location 
VUmc, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Brain Imaging, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Systems and Network Neurosciences, 1081 HV Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Molecular and Cellular Neurobiology, Center for Neurogenomics 
and Cognitive Research, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Understanding the nature and onset of neurophysiological changes, and the 
selective vulnerability of central hub regions in the functional network, may 
aid in managing the growing impact of Alzheimer's disease on society. However, 
the precise neurophysiological alterations occurring in the pre-clinical stage 
of human Alzheimer's disease remain controversial. This study aims to provide 
increased insights on quantitative neurophysiological alterations during a true 
early stage of Alzheimer's disease. Using high spatial resolution 
source-reconstructed magnetoencephalography, we investigated regional and 
whole-brain neurophysiological changes in a unique cohort of 11 cognitively 
unimpaired individuals with pathogenic mutations in the presenilin-1 or amyloid 
precursor protein gene and a 1:3 matched control group (n = 33) with a median 
age of 49 years. We examined several quantitative magnetoencephalography 
measures that have been shown robust in detecting differences in sporadic 
Alzheimer's disease patients and are sensitive to excitation-inhibition 
imbalance. This includes spectral power and functional connectivity in different 
frequency bands. We also investigated hub vulnerability using the hub disruption 
index. To understand how magnetoencephalography measures change as the disease 
progresses through its pre-clinical stage, correlations between 
magnetoencephalography outcomes and various clinical variables like age were 
analysed. A comparison of spectral power between mutation carriers and controls 
revealed oscillatory slowing, characterized by widespread higher theta (4-8 Hz) 
power, a lower posterior peak frequency and lower occipital alpha 2 (10-13 Hz) 
power. Functional connectivity analyses presented a lower whole-brain 
(amplitude-based) functional connectivity in the alpha (8-13 Hz) and beta 
(13-30 Hz) bands, predominantly located in parieto-temporal hub regions. 
Furthermore, we found a significant hub disruption index for (phase-based) 
functional connectivity in the theta band, attributed to both higher functional 
connectivity in 'non-hub' regions alongside a hub disruption. Neurophysiological 
changes did not correlate with indicators of pre-clinical disease progression in 
mutation carriers after multiple comparisons correction. Our findings provide 
evidence that oscillatory slowing and functional connectivity differences occur 
before cognitive impairment in individuals with autosomal dominant mutations 
leading to early onset Alzheimer's disease. The nature and direction of these 
alterations are comparable to those observed in the clinical stages of 
Alzheimer's disease, suggest an early excitation-inhibition imbalance, and fit 
with the activity-dependent functional degeneration hypothesis. These insights 
may prove useful for early diagnosis and intervention in the future.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae423
PMCID: PMC11660908
PMID: 39713236

Conflict of interest statement: W. de Haan and A.A. Gouw are founders of the 
EEGlab at Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc, The Netherlands. A.M. van Nifterick is 
part of the EEGlab research team. The EEGlab performs central blinded EEG 
analysis for clinical trials funded by Vivoryon Therapeutics, EIP-Pharma, 
Fujifilm Toyoma, Immunobrain and Treeway. This funding does only involve 
financial support for W. de Haan, A.A. Gouw and A.M. van Nifterick via the 
Alzheimer Center Amsterdam. Prof. Scheltens is a full-time employee of EQT Life 
Sciences (formerly LSP) and Professor Emeritus at Amsterdam University Medical 
Centers. He is co-chair of the Evoke studies with NOVO-Nordisk. Prof. Van 
Kesteren serves on the Scientific Advisory Board of Alzheimer Nederland. All 
other authors report no competing interests.


5. PeerJ. 2024 Dec 19;12:e18708. doi: 10.7717/peerj.18708. eCollection 2024.

Ferroptosis and its impact on common diseases.

Zou P(#)(1), He Q(#)(1), Xia H(1), Zhong W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical 
Center, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Ferroptosis is a novel form of programmed cell death characterized by iron 
accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and a decline in antioxidant capacity, all of 
which are regulated by gene expression. The onset of numerous diseases is 
closely associated with ferroptosis. Common diseases affect a large population, 
reduce the quality of life, and impose an increased burden on the healthcare 
system. The role of ferroptosis in common diseases, its therapeutic potential, 
and even its translation into clinical drug treatments are currently significant 
research topics worldwide. This study preliminarily explores the theoretical 
basis of ferroptosis, its mechanism and treatment prospect in common diseases 
including ischaemia-reperfusion injury, inflammatory bowel diseases, liver 
fibrosis, acute kidney injury, diabetic kidney disease, stroke, Alzheimer's 
disease, cardiovascular disease, immune and cancer. This review provides a 
theoretical foundation for the further study and development of ferroptosis, as 
well as for the prevention and treatment of common diseases.

© 2024 Zou et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.18708
PMCID: PMC11663406
PMID: 39713140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


6. Cureus. 2024 Nov 21;16(11):e74188. doi: 10.7759/cureus.74188. eCollection 2024
 Nov.

Rethinking Arterial Spin Labeling Perfusion in Neurodegeneration Considering 
Global and Regional Changes.

Kalchev E(1).

Author information:
(1)Diagnostic Imaging, St. Marina University Hospital, Varna, BGR.

Recent advancements in arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI have significantly 
improved our understanding of cerebral perfusion in neurodegenerative diseases. 
Traditionally, the focus has been on regional perfusion deficits corresponding 
to specific neural pathologies. However, this localized approach may overlook 
the influence of global cerebral blood flow alterations. This manuscript 
proposes a nuanced perspective that considers the interplay between global and 
regional changes. By integrating a broader view of cerebral perfusion, we can 
enhance diagnostic accuracy, uncover new patterns in disease progression, and 
potentially refine treatment strategies. We advocate for a collaborative effort 
to validate and implement this comprehensive approach in clinical and research 
settings.

Copyright © 2024, Kalchev et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.74188
PMCID: PMC11663229
PMID: 39712748

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


7. J Exp Neurol. 2024;5(4):183-191. doi: 10.33696/neurol.5.101.

Protein Citrullination in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and Other 
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Yusuf IO(1), Camille W(1), Thompson PR(1)(2), Xu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biotechnology, University of 
Massachusetts Chan Medical School, Worcester, MA 01605, USA.
(2)Program in Chemical Biology, University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, MA 01605 USA.

Protein citrullination (PC) is a posttranslational modification (PTM) that 
converts a peptidyl arginine into a peptidyl citrulline. Aberrant PC is a 
hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS), Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, prion disease, and multiple 
sclerosis. Common among these diseases is a dramatic increase of PC in reactive 
astrocytes. Some citrullinated proteins have been identified. The most prominent 
are astrocytic cytoskeletal proteins such as GFAP and vimentin, and myelin 
protein MBP. Recent investigation in ALS has revealed new changes, including a 
decreased PC in neurons and an association of PC with myelin protein aggregates. 
These findings suggest that PC contributes to protein aggregation, neuronal 
dysfunction, neuroinflammation, and axonal degeneration. However, how PC impact 
neurodegeneration remains to be understood. Further studies are needed to 
understand a range of questions, from how PC modulates individual protein 
functions to its impact on diseases. Because of the PC's robust changes in 
neurodegenerative diseases, there are also prospects that this PTM may be 
harnessed as biomarkers, and modulation of this PTM may be an avenue for 
therapy. In this review, we summarize the current understanding of PC in ALS and 
other neurodegenerative diseases, the investigative methods for PC, and PC's 
potential as a biomarker and a therapeutic target.

DOI: 10.33696/neurol.5.101
PMCID: PMC11661818
PMID: 39712644


8. Front Pharmacol. 2024 Dec 6;15:1506049. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1506049. 
eCollection 2024.

Pharmacological inhibition of receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase β/ζ 
decreases Aβ plaques and neuroinflammation in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice.

Fontán-Baselga T(1), Cañeque-Rufo H(1)(2), Rivera-Illades E(1), Gramage E(1), 
Zapico JM(2), de Pascual-Teresa B(2), Ramos-Álvarez MDP(2), Herradón G(1), 
Vicente-Rodríguez M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Universidad San Pablo-CEU, CEU Universities, Urbanización Montepríncipe, Madrid, 
Spain.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universidad 
San Pablo-CEU, CEU Universities, Urbanización Montepríncipe, Madrid, Spain.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major neurodegenerative disorder that courses with 
chronic neuroinflammation. Pleiotrophin (PTN) is an endogenous inhibitor of 
Receptor Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase (RPTP) β/ζ which is upregulated in 
different neuroinflammatory disorders of diverse origin, including AD. To 
investigate the role of RPTPβ/ζ in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration, we 
used eight-to ten-month-old APP/PS1 AD mouse model. They were administered 
intragastrically with MY10, an inhibitor of RPTPβ/ζ, at different doses (60 and 
90 mg/kg) every day for 14 days. Treatment with 90 mg/kg MY10 significantly 
reduced the number and size of amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques in the dorsal subiculum 
of the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice. In addition, we observed a significant 
decrease in the number and size of astrocytes in both sexes and in the number of 
microglial cells in a sex-dependent manner. This suggests that RPTPβ/ζ plays an 
important role in modulating Aβ plaque formation and influences glial responses, 
which may contribute to improved Aβ clearance. In addition, MY10 treatment 
decreased the interaction of glial cells with Aβ plaques in the hippocampus of 
APP/PS1 mice. Furthermore, the analysis of proinflammatory markers in the 
hippocampus revealed that MY10 treatment decreased the mRNA levels of Tnfa and 
Hmgb1. Notably, treatment with MY10 increased Bace1 mRNA expression, which could 
be involved in enhancing Aβ degradation, and it decreased Mmp9 levels, which 
might reflect changes in the neuroinflammatory environment and impact Aβ plaque 
dynamics. These results support the therapeutic potential of inhibition of 
RPTPβ/ζ in modulating Aβ pathology and neuroinflammation in AD.

Copyright © 2024 Fontán-Baselga, Cañeque-Rufo, Rivera-Illades, Gramage, Zapico, 
de Pascual-Teresa, Ramos-Álvarez, Herradón and Vicente-Rodríguez.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1506049
PMCID: PMC11658987
PMID: 39712494

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


9. Cogn Neurodyn. 2024 Dec;18(6):3679-3689. doi: 10.1007/s11571-024-10155-4. Epub
 2024 Jul 26.

Electroencephalogram criticality in cognitive impairment: a monitoring 
biomarker?

Tseriotis VS(1)(2), Vavougios G(3), Tsolaki M(4), Spilioti M(5), Kosmidis EK(6).

Author information:
(1)Agios Pavlos General Hospital of Thessaloniki, Leoforos Ethnikis Antistaseos 
161, 55134 Kalamaria, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Clinical Pharmacology, University Campus, Aristotle University 
of Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(3)Department of Neurology, Medical School, University of Cyprus, 75 Kallipoleos 
Street, 1678 Nicosia, Cyprus.
(4)Greek Association of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders "Alzheimer 
Hellas", Petrou Sindika 13, 54643 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(5)First Department of Neurology, AHEPA Hospital, Kiriakidi 1, 54636 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(6)Laboratory of Physiology, Department of Medicine, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.

Critical states present scale-free dynamics, optimizing neuronal complexity and 
serving as a potential biomarker in cognitively impaired patients. We explored 
electroencephalogram (EEG) criticality in amnesic Mild Cognitive Impairment 
patients with clinical improvement in working memory, verbal memory, verbal 
fluency and overall executive functions after the completion of a 6-month 
prospective memory training. We compared "before" and "after" stationary 
resting-state EEG records of right-handed MCI patients (n = 17; 11 females), 
using the method of critical fluctuations and Haar wavelet analysis. Improvement 
of criticality indices was observed in most electrodes, with mean values being 
higher after prospective memory training. Significant criticality enhancement 
was found in the subgroup analysis of frontotemporal electrodes [mean dif: 0.10; 
Z = 7, p = 0.019]. In the isolated electrode signal analysis, significant 
post-intervention improvement was noted in pooled criticality indices of 
electrodes T6 [mean dif: 0.204; t(10) = -2.3, p = 0.044] and F4 [mean dif: 
0.0194; t(10) = -2.82; p = 0.018]. EEG criticality agreed with clinical 
improvement, consisting a possible quantifiable and easy-to-obtain biomarker in 
MCI and Alzheimer's disease (AD), especially in patients under cognitive 
training/rehabilitation. We highlight the role of EEG in prognostication, 
monitoring and potentially early treatment optimization in MCI or AD patients. 
Further standardization of the methodology in larger patient cohorts could be 
valuable for AD theragnostics in patients receiving disease-modifying treatments 
by providing insights regarding synaptic brain plasticity.
GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT: Critical states' scale-free dynamics optimize neuronal 
complexity, emerging as biomarkers in cognitive neuroscience. Applying the 
method of critical fluctuations and Haar wavelet analysis in stationary EEG 
time-series, we demonstrate criticality enhancement in the frontotemporal 
electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) 
patients after a 6-month prospective memory training, suggesting EEG criticality 
as a possible monitoring biomarker in MCI and Alzheimer's disease.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material 
available at 10.1007/s11571-024-10155-4.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2024. Springer 
Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights 
to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other 
rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of 
this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and 
applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s11571-024-10155-4
PMCID: PMC11655763
PMID: 39712107

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors have no 
competing interests to declare that are relevant to the content of this article.


10. Cogn Neurodyn. 2024 Dec;18(6):3447-3462. doi: 10.1007/s11571-024-10152-7.
Epub  2024 Jul 22.

EEG-based classification of Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia: a 
comprehensive analysis of discriminative features.

Rostamikia M(1), Sarbaz Y(1), Makouei S(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical System Modeling Lab, Biomedical Engineering Department, Electrical 
and Computer Engineering Faculty, University of Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are two main types of 
dementia. These diseases have similar symptoms, and they both may be considered 
as AD. Early detection of dementia and differential diagnosis between AD and FTD 
can lead to more effective management of the disease and contributes to the 
advancement of knowledge and potential treatments. In this approach, several 
features were extracted from electroencephalogram (EEG) signals of 36 subjects 
diagnosed with AD, 23 FTD subjects, and 29 healthy controls (HC). Mann-Whitney 
U-test and t-test methods were employed for the selection of the best 
discriminative features. The Fp1 channel for FTD patients exhibited the most 
significant differences compared to AD. In addition, connectivity features in 
the delta and alpha subbands indicated promising discrimination among these two 
groups. Moreover, for dementia diagnosis (AD + FTD vs. HC), central brain 
regions including Cz and Pz channels proved to be determining for the extracted 
features. Finally, four machine learning (ML) algorithms were utilized for the 
classification purpose. For differentiating between AD and FTD, and dementia 
diagnosis, an accuracy of 87.8% and 93.5% were achieved respectively, using the 
tenfold cross-validation technique and employing support vector machines (SVM) 
as the classifier.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2024. Springer 
Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights 
to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other 
rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of 
this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and 
applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s11571-024-10152-7
PMCID: PMC11655805
PMID: 39712091

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestAll authors contributed 
equally and have approved the final manuscript. None of the authors have 
potential conflicts of interest to be disclosed.


11. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Dec 12:2024.12.10.24318800. doi: 
10.1101/2024.12.10.24318800.

Simulate Scientific Reasoning with Multiple Large Language Models: An 
Application to Alzheimer's Disease Combinatorial Therapy.

Xu Q(1), Liu X(2), Jiang X(1), Kim Y(1).

Author information:
(1)McWilliams School of Biomedical Informatics, UTHealth Houston, Houston, TX, 
77030.
(2)Computer Science and Data Science, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, 
Worcester, MA, 01609.

MOTIVATION: This study aims to develop an AI-driven framework that leverages 
large language models (LLMs) to simulate scientific reasoning and peer review to 
predict efficacious combinatorial therapy when data-driven prediction is 
infeasible.
RESULTS: Our proposed framework achieved a significantly higher accuracy (0.74) 
than traditional knowledge-based prediction (0.52). An ablation study 
highlighted the importance of high quality few-shot examples, external knowledge 
integration, self-consistency, and review within the framework. The external 
validation with private experimental data yielded an accuracy of 0.82, further 
confirming the framework's ability to generate high-quality hypotheses in 
biological inference tasks. Our framework offers an automated knowledge-driven 
hypothesis generation approach when data-driven prediction is not a viable 
option.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: Our source code and data are available at 
https://github.com/QidiXu96/Coated-LLM.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.12.10.24318800
PMCID: PMC11661384
PMID: 39711724

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests No competing interest to 
declare.


12. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Dec 14:2024.12.13.24318996. doi: 
10.1101/2024.12.13.24318996.

Prioritizing Parkinson's disease risk genes in genome-wide association loci.

Lange LM(1)(2), Cerquera-Cleves C(3)(4), Schipper M(5), Panagiotaropoulou 
G(6)(7)(8), Braun A(6)(7)(8), Kraft J(6)(7)(8), Awasthi S(6)(7)(8), Bell N(5), 
Posthuma D(5)(9), Ripke S(6)(7)(8), Blauwendraat C(2)(10), Heilbron 
K(6)(7)(8)(11).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neurogenetics, University of Luebeck, Luebeck, Germany.
(2)Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging, Bethesda, Maryland, 
USA.
(3)Neurology Unit, Department of Neurosciences, Hospital Universitario San 
Ignacio, Bogotá, Colombia.
(4)CHU de Québec Research Center, Axe Neurosciences, Laval University, Quebec 
City, Quebec, Canada.
(5)Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(7)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(8)German Center for Mental Health (DZPG), partner site Berlin/Potsdam, Berlin, 
Germany.
(9)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Pediatric Psychology, 
Section Complex Trait Genetics, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije Universiteit 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(10)Center for Alzheimer's and Related Dementias, National Institute on Aging 
and National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(11)Current address: Bayer AG, Research & Development, Pharmaceuticals, Berlin, 
Germany.

Update in
    NPJ Parkinsons Dis. 2025 Apr 16;11(1):77. doi: 10.1038/s41531-025-00933-0.

Recent advancements in Parkinson's disease (PD) drug development have been 
significantly driven by genetic research. Importantly, drugs supported by 
genetic evidence are more likely to be approved. While genome-wide association 
studies (GWAS) are a powerful tool to nominate genomic regions associated with 
certain traits or diseases, pinpointing the causal biologically relevant gene is 
often challenging. Our aim was to prioritize genes underlying PD GWAS signals. 
The polygenic priority score (PoPS) is a similarity-based gene prioritization 
method that integrates genome-wide information from MAGMA gene-level association 
tests and more than 57,000 gene-level features, including gene expression, 
biological pathways, and protein-protein interactions. We applied PoPS to data 
from the largest published PD GWAS in East Asian- and European-ancestries. We 
identified 120 independent associations with P < 5×10-8 and prioritized 46 PD 
genes across these loci based on their PoPS scores, distance to the GWAS signal, 
and presence of non-synonymous variants in the credible set. Alongside 
well-established PD genes (e.g., TMEM175 and VPS13C), some of which are targeted 
in ongoing clinical trials (i.e., SNCA, LRRK2, and GBA1), we prioritized genes 
with a plausible mechanistic link to PD pathogenesis (e.g., RIT2, BAG3, and 
SCARB2). Many of these genes hold potential for drug repurposing or novel 
therapeutic developments for PD (i.e., FYN, DYRK1A, NOD2, CTSB, SV2C, and 
ITPKB). Additionally, we prioritized potentially druggable genes that are 
relatively unexplored in PD (XPO1, PIK3CA, EP300, MAP4K4, CAMK2D, NCOR1, and 
WDR43). We prioritized a high-confidence list of genes with strong links to PD 
pathogenesis that may represent our next-best candidates for disease-modifying 
therapeutics. We hope our findings stimulate further investigations and 
preclinical work to facilitate PD drug development programs.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.12.13.24318996
PMCID: PMC11661345
PMID: 39711693

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests LML, CCC, JK, AB, SA, GP, 
MS, NB, DP, SR and CB have nothing to disclose. KH is a former employee of 
23andMe, Inc. and a current employee of Bayer AG.


13. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2024 Dec 11:rs.3.rs-5368620. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-5368620/v1.

Single-Nucleus Atlas of Cell-Type Specific Genetic Regulation in the Human 
Brain.

Zeng B(1)(2)(3)(4), Yang H(1)(2)(3)(4), N M P(1)(2)(3)(4), Venkatesh 
S(1)(2)(3)(4), Mathur D(1)(2)(3)(4), Auluck P(5), Bennett DA(6), Marenco S(5), 
Haroutunian V(1)(2)(3)(4)(7); PsychAD Consortium; Voloudakis 
G(1)(2)(3)(4)(7)(8)(9), Lee D(1)(2)(3)(4), Fullard JF(1)(2)(3)(4), Bendl 
J(1)(2)(3)(4), Girdhar K(1)(2)(3)(4), Hoffman GE(1)(2)(3)(4)(7)(8), Roussos 
P(1)(2)(3)(4)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Center for Disease Neurogenomics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY, USA.
(2)Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(4)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Human Brain Collection Core, National Institute of Mental Health-Intramural 
Research Program, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(6)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.
(7)Mental Illness Research, Education and Clinical Center VISN2, James J. Peters 
VA Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.
(8)Center for Precision Medicine and Translational Therapeutics, James J. Peters 
VA Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.
(9)Department of Artificial Intelligence and Human Health, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.

Genetic risk variants for common diseases are predominantly located in 
non-coding regulatory regions and modulate gene expression. Although bulk tissue 
studies have elucidated shared mechanisms of regulatory and disease-associated 
genetics, the cellular specificity of these mechanisms remains largely 
unexplored. This study presents a comprehensive single-nucleus multi-ancestry 
atlas of genetic regulation of gene expression in the human prefrontal cortex, 
comprising 5.6 million nuclei from 1,384 donors of diverse ancestries. Through 
multi-resolution analyses spanning eight major cell classes and 27 subclasses, 
we identify genetic regulation for 14,258 genes, with 857 showing cell 
type-specific regulatory effects at the class level and 981 at the subclass 
level. Colocalization of genetic variants associated with gene regulation and 
disease traits uncovers novel cell type-specific genes implicated in Alzheimer's 
disease, schizophrenia, and other disorders, which were not detectable in bulk 
tissue analyses. Analysis of dynamic genetic regulation at the single nucleus 
level identifies 2,073 genes with regulatory effects that vary across 
developmental trajectories, inferred from a broad age range of donors. We also 
uncover 1,655 genes with trans-regulatory effects, revealing distal regulation 
of gene expression. This high-resolution atlas provides unprecedented insight 
into the cell type-specific regulatory architecture of the human brain, and 
offers novel mechanistic targets for understanding the genetic basis of 
neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-5368620/v1
PMCID: PMC11661307
PMID: 39711543

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


14. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jan;21(1):e14354. doi: 10.1002/alz.14354. Epub 2024
Dec  23.

Alzheimer's Association's funding portfolio: Insights from the International 
Alzheimer's and Related Dementias Research Portfolio (IADRP).

Kloske CM(1), Forner S(1), Meyers EA(1), Towers AE(1), Snyder HM(1), Carrillo 
MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical and Scientific Relations and Medical Affairs, Alzheimer's 
Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias (ADRD) present 
significant health challenges. Understanding their underlying biology, advancing 
existing and new therapies, and enhancing care for patients and caregivers are 
critical priorities.
METHODS: This article utilizes data from the International Alzheimer's and 
Related Dementias Research Portfolio (IADRP) to analyze funding patterns from 
the Alzheimer's Association over the past decade.
RESULTS: As the largest nonprofit funder of AD/ADRD research globally, the 
Alzheimer's Association has committed over $430 million, supporting a diverse 
range of studies across the entire spectrum of dementia-related science. The 
funding landscape has evolved, reflecting new areas of investigation and 
collaboration with broader research initiatives.
DISCUSSION: This article highlights the dynamic nature of the Association's 
funding strategies and ongoing efforts to connect funding with additional 
supportive resources, thereby enhancing the overall research ecosystem 
Highlights As the world's largest nonprofit funder of Alzheimer's disease and 
dementia science, the Alzheimer's Association's funding activities are 
strategically designed in partnership with the global research community to 
address scientific gaps in our knowledge to advance research. A large part of 
the Association's funding portfolio depends on key partnerships and 
collaborations. From 2019 to 2023, the Alzheimer's Association has allocated 
funding for more than 850 new research studies. The diversity of areas funded is 
clear across the Association's portfolio. Beyond the Association's strong 
emphasis on supporting research through grant funding, there are also efforts to 
ensure the necessary ecosystem to support the career development of researchers 
and clinicians, maintaining ongoing support for current and future awardees, 
including convening and the Alzheimer's Association International Society to 
Advance Alzheimer's Research and Treatment (ISTAART).

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14354
PMCID: PMC11782193
PMID: 39711499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors are full‐time employees of the 
Alzheimer's Association. A.E.T. is now an employee at an institution. H.M.S.'s 
partner is an employee of Abbott in an unrelated area. M.C.C.’s child is a 
graduate student in neurosciences at an institution. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information.


15. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14458. doi: 10.1002/alz.14458. Epub 2024
Dec  23.

Diagnostic accuracy of phosphorylated tau217 in detecting Alzheimer's disease 
pathology among cognitively impaired and unimpaired: A systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Khalafi M(1), Dartora WJ(2), McIntire LBJ(2), Butler TA(1), Wartchow KM(2), 
Hojjati SH(1), Razlighi QR(1), Shirbandi K(3), Zhou L(1), Chen K(4)(5), Xi K(1), 
Banerjee S(6), Foldi N(1), Pahlajani S(1)(7), Glodzik L(1), Li Y(1), de Leon 
MJ(1), Chiang GC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Brain Health Imaging Institute, Weill Cornell 
Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Lipidomics and Biomarker Discovery Lab, Department of Radiology, Brain Health 
Imaging Institute, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(3)Biomedical Engineering Department, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Banner Health, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(5)College of Health Solutions, Arizona State University, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(6)Department of Population Health Sciences, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, 
New York, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA.

Our review summarizes the diagnostic accuracy of plasma and cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) phosphorylated tau 217 (p-tau217) in detecting amyloid and tau pathology 
on positron emission tomography (PET). We systematically reviewed studies that 
reported the diagnostic accuracy of plasma and CSF p-tau217, searching 
MEDLINE/PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science through August 2024. The accuracy of 
p-tau217 in predicting amyloid and tau pathology on PET was evaluated in 30 
studies. Both plasma and CSF p-tau217 effectively detect amyloid and tau PET 
deposition. Plasma p-tau217 showed 82% sensitivity for detecting amyloid and 83% 
for tau, with 86% and 83% specificity, respectively. CSF p-tau217 had 79% 
sensitivity for amyloid and 91% for tau, with 91% and 84% specificity. p-tau217 
effectively identifies Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Plasma p-tau217 was 
comparable to CSF p-tau217 in detecting amyloid deposition on PET. Despite being 
less sensitive for detecting tau deposition on PET, plasma p-tau217 can be an 
efficient screening tool for underlying AD pathology. HIGHLIGHTS: Plasma 
phosphorylated tau 217 (p-tau217) serves as a viable biomarker alternative to 
cerebrospinal fluid p-tau217 due to the strong concordance between their 
results. Plasma p-tau217 accurately identifies amyloid and tau positron emission 
tomography (PET) positivity, exhibiting a low rate of false negatives and 
positives, thereby establishing it as a reliable diagnostic tool for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Plasma p-tau217 demonstrates slightly higher accuracy in 
predicting amyloid PET positivity compared to tau PET positivity. Plasma 
p-tau217 demonstrates higher predictive accuracy in detecting AD pathology among 
cognitively impaired individuals, compared to cognitively unimpaired 
individuals, suggesting its enhanced utility as a diagnostic biomarker in 
clinical settings.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14458
PMCID: PMC11848338
PMID: 39711334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: G.C. receives consulting fees from Life 
Molecular Imaging and speaker honoraria from Efficient CME and PeerView. K.C. 
receives consulting fees from Shanghai Green Valley Pharmaceutical, ADMdx, and 
Banner Alzheimer's Institute. M.K., K.S., L.M., Y.L., L.Z., T.B., W.D., K.W., 
N.F., L.G., M.d.L., S.H., Q.R., K.X., S.B., and S.P. report no competing 
interests. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


16. J Mater Chem B. 2025 Jan 29;13(5):1548-1572. doi: 10.1039/d4tb02062f.

Progress in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease based on nanosized traditional 
Chinese medicines.

Song D(1), Zhang J(2), Hu X(1), Liu X(3).

Author information:
(1)West China School of Basic Medical Sciences & Forensic Medicine, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, 610044, China. huxuefeng@scu.edu.cn.
(2)National Engineering Research Center for Biomaterials, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, Sichuan, 610044, China.
(3)West China Hospital of Sichuan University, 610041, China.

Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has been employed for centuries in treating 
and managing Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, their effective delivery to 
target sites can be a major challenge. This is due to their poor water 
solubility, low bioavailability, and potential toxicity. Furthermore, the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a major obstacle to effective TCM delivery, 
significantly reducing efficacy. Advancements in nanotechnology and its 
applications in TCM (nano-TCM) can deliver active ingredients or components of 
TCM across the BBB to the targeted brain area. This review summarizes the recent 
advances in nanocarrier-based delivery systems for different types of active 
constituents of TCM for AD, including terpenoids, polyphenols, alkaloids, 
flavonoids, and quinones. Besides, the main challenges and opportunities for the 
future development of these advanced TCM nanocarriers are emphasized. In 
conclusion, this review provides valuable insights and guidance for utilizing 
nanocarriers to shape future TCM drug delivery.

DOI: 10.1039/d4tb02062f
PMID: 39711283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jan;21(1):e14218. doi: 10.1002/alz.14218. Epub 2024
Dec  23.

Differences in baseline cognitive performance between participants with 
early-onset and late-onset Alzheimer's disease: Comparison of LEADS and ADNI.

Hammers DB(1), Eloyan A(2), Thangarajah M(2), Taurone A(2), Beckett L(3), Gao 
S(4), Polsinelli AJ(1), Kirby K(1), Dage JL(1), Nudelman K(5), Aisen P(6), Reman 
R(6), La Joie R(7), Lagarde J(7), Atri A(8), Clark D(1), Day GS(9), Duara R(10), 
Graff-Radford NR(9), Honig LS(11), Jones DT(12), Masdeu JC(13), Mendez MF(14), 
Womack K(15), Musiek E(15), Onyike CU(16), Riddle M(17), Grant I(18), Rogalski 
E(19), Johnson ECB(20), Salloway S(17), Sha SJ(21), Turner RS(22), Wingo TS(23), 
Wolk DA(24), Carrillo MC(25), Dickerson BC(26), Rabinovici GD(7)(27), Apostolova 
LG(1)(5)(28); LEADS Consortium 1 for the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
Indiana, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Center for Statistical Sciences, Brown 
University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(3)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California-Davis, Davis, 
California, USA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(5)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(6)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, University of Southern 
California, San Diego, California, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of California-San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(8)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(10)Wien Center for Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders, Mount Sinai 
Medical Center, Miami, Florida, USA.
(11)Taub Institute and Department of Neurology, Columbia University Irving 
Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(12)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(13)Nantz National Alzheimer Center, Houston Methodist and Weill Cornell 
Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.
(15)Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(16)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(17)Department of Neurology, Alpert Medical School, Brown University, 
Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(18)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Mesulam Center for 
Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(19)Healthy Aging & Alzheimer's Research Care Center, Department of Neurology, 
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(20)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
Georgia, USA.
(21)Department of Neurology & Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, California, USA.
(22)Department of Neurology, Georgetown University, Washington D.C., USA.
(23)Department of Neurology, UC Davis Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 
University of California-Davis, Davis, California, USA.
(24)Department of Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(25)Medical & Scientific Relations Division, Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.
(26)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(27)Department of Radiology & Biomedical Imaging, University of California-San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(28)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Center for Neuroimaging, 
Indiana University School of Medicine Indianapolis, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) and late-onset Alzheimer's 
disease (LOAD) share similar amyloid etiology, but evidence from smaller-scale 
studies suggests that they manifest differently clinically. Current analyses 
sought to contrast the cognitive profiles of EOAD and LOAD.
METHODS: Z-score cognitive-domain composites for 311 amyloid-positive sporadic 
EOAD and 314 amyloid-positive LOAD participants were calculated from baseline 
data from age-appropriate control cohorts. Z-score composites were compared 
between AD groups for each domain.
RESULTS: After controlling for cognitive status, EOAD displayed worse 
visuospatial, executive functioning, and processing speed/attention skills 
relative to LOAD, and LOAD displayed worse language, episodic immediate memory, 
and episodic delayed memory.
DISCUSSION: Sporadic EOAD possesses distinct cognitive profiles relative to 
LOAD. Clinicians should be alert for non-amnestic impairments in younger 
patients to ensure proper identification and intervention using 
disease-modifying treatments.
HIGHLIGHTS: Both early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) and late-onset 
Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) participants displayed widespread cognitive 
impairments relative to their same-aged peers. Cognitive impairments were more 
severe for EOAD than for LOAD participants in visuospatial and executive 
domains. Memory and language impairments were more severe for LOAD than for EOAD 
participants Results were comparable after removing clinical phenotypes of 
posterior cortical atrophy (PCA), primary progressive aphasia (lv-PPA), and 
frontal-variant AD.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14218
PMCID: PMC11772709
PMID: 39711228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No authors associated with this project have 
reported conflicts of interest that would impact these results. Author 
disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


18. Future Med Chem. 2024 Dec;16(24):2663-2685. doi:
10.1080/17568919.2024.2435254.  Epub 2024 Dec 22.

Organoselenium compounds beyond antioxidants.

Mamgain R(1), Mishra G(2), Kriti S(1), Singh FV(1).

Author information:
(1)Chemistry Division, School of Advanced Sciences (SAS), Vellore Institute of 
Technology - Chennai, Chennai, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Western Illinois University-Quad Cities, Moline, IL, 
USA.

Organoselenium chemistry has become a significant field due to its role in 
synthesizing numerous biologically active and therapeutic compounds. In early 
phase, researchers focused on designing organoselenium compounds with 
antioxidant properties and were quite successful. In last two decades, synthetic 
chemists shifted their focus toward synthesis of organoselenium compounds with 
biological properties, moving beyond their traditional antioxidant properties. 
The review includes synthesis and study of organo-selenium compounds as 
anticancer, antimicrobial, antiviral, antidiabetic, antithyroid, 
anti-inflammatory therapies, contributing to disease treatment. This review 
covers the synthesis and medicinal applications of synthetic organoselenium 
compounds over the past 10 years, thus making it a valuable resource for 
researchers in the field of medicinal chemistry.

DOI: 10.1080/17568919.2024.2435254
PMCID: PMC11734649
PMID: 39711134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant affiliations or 
financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial interest 
in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the 
manuscript. This includes employment, consultancies, honoraria, stock ownership 
or options, expert testimony, grants or patents received or pending, or 
royalties.


19. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jan;21(1):e14321. doi: 10.1002/alz.14321. Epub 2024
Dec  22.

Overview of Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative and future clinical 
trials.

Weiner MW(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Kanoria S(1)(6), Miller MJ(1)(6), Aisen PS(7), 
Beckett LA(8), Conti C(1)(6), Diaz A(1)(6), Flenniken D(6), Green RC(9), Harvey 
DJ(8), Jack CR Jr(10), Jagust W(11), Lee EB(12), Morris JC(13)(14)(15), Nho 
K(16)(17), Nosheny R(1)(4), Okonkwo OC(18), Perrin RJ(13)(14)(15), Petersen 
RC(19), Rivera-Mindt M(20)(21), Saykin AJ(16)(22), Shaw LM(23), Toga AW(24), 
Tosun D(1)(2), Veitch DP(1)(6); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Center for Imaging of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, San Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of California 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(6)Northern California Institute for Research and Education (NCIRE), San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(7)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, University of Southern 
California, San Diego, California, USA.
(8)Division of Biostatistics, Department of Public Health Sciences, University 
of California, Medical Sciences 1C, Davis, California, USA.
(9)Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Broad Institute Ariadne Labs and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(10)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(11)Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California Berkeley, 
Berkeley, California, USA.
(12)Translational Neuropathology Research Laboratory, Department of Pathology 
and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(13)Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, Saint Louis, Missouri, USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, Saint 
Louis, Missouri, USA.
(15)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(16)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences and the Indiana Alzheimer's 
Disease Research Center, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
Indiana, USA.
(17)Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(18)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and Department of Medicine, 
University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Clinical Science 
Center, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(20)Department of Psychology, Latin American and Latino Studies Institute, 
African and African American Studies, Fordham University, Bronx, New York, USA.
(21)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(22)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(23)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine and the PENN Alzheimer's 
Disease Research Center, Center for Neurodegenerative Research, Perelman School 
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.
(24)Laboratory of Neuro Imaging, Institute of Neuroimaging and Informatics, Keck 
School of Medicine of the University of Southern California, San Diego, 
California, USA.

The overall goal of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is to 
optimize and validate biomarkers for clinical trials while sharing all data and 
biofluid samples with the global scientific community. ADNI has been 
instrumental in standardizing and validating amyloid beta (Aβ) and tau positron 
emission tomography (PET) imaging. ADNI data were used for the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) approval of the Fujirebio and Roche Elecsys cerebrospinal 
fluid diagnostic tests. Additionally, ADNI provided data for the trials of the 
FDA-approved treatments aducanumab, lecanemab, and donanemab. More than 6000 
scientific papers have been published using ADNI data, reflecting ADNI's 
promotion of open science and data sharing. Despite its enormous success, ADNI 
has some limitations, particularly in generalizing its data and findings to the 
entire US/Canadian population. This introduction provides a historical overview 
of ADNI and highlights its significant accomplishments and future vision to 
pioneer "the clinical trial of the future" focusing on demographic inclusivity. 
HIGHLIGHTS: The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) introduced a 
novel model for public-private partnerships and data sharing. It successfully 
validated amyloid and Tau PET imaging, as well as CSF and plasma biomarkers, for 
diagnosing Alzheimer's disease. ADNI generated and disseminated vital data for 
designing AD clinical trials.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14321
PMCID: PMC11775462
PMID: 39711072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Weiner serves on editorial boards 
for Alzheimer's & Dementia, MRI, and TMRI. He has served on advisory boards for 
Acumen Pharmaceutical, ADNI, Alzheon, Inc., Biogen, Brain Health Registry, 
Cerecin, Dolby Family Ventures, Eli Lilly, Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., National 
Institute on Aging (NIA), Nestle/Nestec, PCORI/PPRN, Roche, University of 
Southern California (USC), NervGen. He has provided consulting to Baird Equity 
Capital, BioClinica, Cerecin, Inc., Cytox, Dolby Family Ventures, Duke 
University, Eisai, FUJIFILM‐Toyama Chemical (Japan), Garfield Weston, Genentech, 
Guidepoint Global, Indiana University, Japanese Organization for Medical Device 
Development, Inc. (JOMDD), Medscape, Nestle/Nestec, NIH, Peerview Internal 
Medicine, Roche, T3D Therapeutics, University of Southern California (USC), and 
Vida Ventures. He has acted as a speaker/lecturer to The Buck Institute for 
Research on Aging, China Association for Alzheimer's Disease (CAAD), Japan 
Society for Dementia Research, and Korean Dementia Society. He holds stock 
options with Alzheon, Inc., Alzeca, and Anven. The following entities have 
provided funding for academic travel: University of Southern California (USC), 
NervGen, ASFNR, and CTAD Congress. Dr. Kanoria is employed by both NCIRE and 
Houston Methodist Academic Institute. However, only NCIRE provided financial 
support for the work presented in this manuscript. Dr. Beckett, Dr. Miller, Dr. 
Morris, Dr. Nho, Dr. Okonkwo, Dr. Perrin, Dr. Toga, Dr. Tosun, and Dr. Veitch 
have no conflicts to declare. Mr. Diaz, Mr. Flenniken, and Ms. Conti also have 
no conflicts to report. Dr. Aisen has research grants from NIH, Lilly, and 
Eisai, and consults with Merck, Roche, BMS, Genentech, Abbvie, Biogen, 
ImmunoBrain Checkpoint, and Arrowhead. Dr. Green has received compensation for 
advising the following companies: Allelica, Atria, Fabric, Genome Web, Genomic 
Life, Grail, Verily, and VinBigData and is co‐founder of Genome Medical and 
Nurture Genomics. Dr. Harvey serves as a statistical advisor for PLOS ONE. Dr. 
Nosheny receives support in the form of grants to UCSF from NIH, The Alzheimer's 
Association, and Genentech, Inc. Dr. Petersen has consulted for Roche, Inc., 
Merck, Inc., Biogen, Inc., Eisai, Inc., Nestle, Inc., and Genentech, Inc. Dr. 
Rivera Mindt receives support in the form of grants to Fordham University or the 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai from NIH/NIA, The Alzheimer's 
Association, and Genentech Inc. Charitable Foundation. Dr. Okonkwo is supported 
by NIH grants to the University of Wisconsin‐Madison. Dr. Saykin has received 
support from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Eli Lilly (in kind 
contribution of PET tracer precursor) and consulting fees from Bayer Oncology 
(Scientific Advisory Board), Eisai (Scientific Advisory Board), Siemens Medical 
Solutions USA, Inc. (Dementia Advisory Board), Springer‐Nature Publishing 
(editorial office support as editor‐in‐chief, Brain Imaging and Behavior). Dr. 
Shaw receives support from Roche (IIS and in‐kind reagents and instrumentation 
support for CSF AD biomarkers). He has also received honoraria from Roche, 
Biogen, and Fujirebio for participation in teaching programs and served on 
advisory boards for Roche and Biogen. Dr. Jack is employed by the Mayo Clinic. 
He receives no personal compensation from any commercial entity. He receives 
research support from NIH and the Alexander Family Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Professorship of the Mayo Clinic. Dr. Jagust has consulted for Lilly, Biogen, 
Clario, and Eisai and holds equity in Molecular Medicine and Optoceutics. Dr. 
Green has received compensation for advising the following companies: Allelica, 
Atria, Fabric, Genomic Life, and Juniper Genomics; and is co‐founder of Genome 
Medical and Nurture Genomics. J.C. Morris is funded by NIH grants # P30 
AG066444; P01AG003991; P01AG026276; neither Dr. Morris nor his family owns stock 
or has equity interest (outside of mutual funds or other externally directed 
accounts) in any pharmaceutical or biotechnology company. ADNI is funded by NIH 
grant, U19 AG024904. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


20. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jan;21(1):e14248. doi: 10.1002/alz.14248. Epub 2024
Dec  22.

ADNI Private Partners Scientific Board (PPSB) Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
(DE&I) Working Group: A new collaboration that crosses boundaries for industry, 
academia, and under-represented patients.

Croney R(1), Fristed E(2), Masterman D(3), Meyer M(4), Sachdev P(5), 
Vasanthakumar A(6), Weber CJ(7), Devins T(8).

Author information:
(1)Roche Products Ltd, Welwyn Garden City, UK.
(2)Novoic Inc, London, UK.
(3)Prothena Biosciences, Brisbane, California, USA.
(4)J&J Innovative Medicine, Raritan, New Jersey, USA.
(5)Eisai Inc., Nutley, New Jersey, USA.
(6)Abbvie Inc., North Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(7)Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(8)Cognition Therapeutics, Purchase, New York, USA.

The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) Private Partners 
Scientific Board (PPSB) Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Working Group (DE&I WG) 
was established to work with the ADNI3 Diversity Task Force to provide an 
industry perspective on increasing the representation of diverse participants in 
ADNI3 and to build precompetitive cross-industry knowledge in engagement and 
recruitment of under-represented participants (URPs). In this article, we review 
and highlight the role and ongoing activities within the ADNI PPSB DE&I WG and 
provide a cross-industry perspective on areas where precompetitive collaboration 
can improve the inclusiveness in clinical trials, drawing on examples from 
ADNI4. HIGHLIGHTS: New collaboration crosses boundaries to allow PPSB DE&I WG 
members to work together in a preproprietary way. When faced with the same 
challenges required by FDA combined with a growing prevalence of AD, the DE&I WG 
has drafted a range of initiatives that may benefit ADNI, AD patients, care 
partners, and respective companies involved in this work. In order to address 
the multifactorial problem of successfully enrolling representative populations 
in clinical trials, it will "take a village" to bring about sustainable changes.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14248
PMCID: PMC11772309
PMID: 39711065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Christopher J. Weber is a full time employee of 
the Alzheimer's Association; Theresa Devins holds stock/stock options with 
Cognition Therapeutics; Aparna Vasanthakumar is a full time employee of AbbVie 
and holds stock in the company; Donna Masterman is an employee of Prothena 
Biosciences which is an ADNI PPSB corporate member and corporate sponsor; 
Pallavi Sachdev is a full time employee of Eisai, Inc.; Ruth Croney is a full 
time employee of Roche Products Ltd and owns stock with the company; Emil 
Fristed is a full time employee, shareholder, and director on the board of 
Novoic. Martine Meyer is a full‐time employee of J&J Innovative Medicine. Author 
disclosures are available in the supporting information.


21. Int Ophthalmol Clin. 2025 Jan 1;65(1):59-67. doi:
10.1097/IIO.0000000000000549.  Epub 2024 Dec 23.

Retinal Microstructural and Microvascular Changes in Alzheimer Disease: A 
Review.

Olivares Ordoñez MA(1), Smith RC(1), Yiu G(2), Liu YA(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology & Vision Science, University of California, 
Davis, Sacramento, CA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA.
(4)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, Davis, 
Sacramento, CA.

"The eyes are a window to the brain," prompting the investigation of whether 
retinal biomarkers can indicate Alzheimer disease (AD) and cognitive impairment. 
AD is a neurodegenerative condition with a lengthy preclinical phase where 
pathologic changes in the central nervous system (CNS) occur before clinical 
symptoms. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) often precedes AD. As part of the CNS, 
the retina exhibits similar pathologic changes related to AD as those seen in 
the brains of patients with MCI. Noninvasive imaging technologies such as 
optical coherence tomography (OCT) and optical coherence tomography angiography 
(OCTA) allow high-resolution visualization of the retina, providing an 
opportunity to screen and monitor AD noninvasively. In this review, we summarize 
the relationship between AD and retinal pathology detected by OCT and OCTA. The 
most common findings in patients with AD include peripapillary retinal nerve 
fiber layer thinning, decreased macular thickness, an enlarged foveal avascular 
zone, and decreased vascular densities in the superficial and deep capillary 
plexuses. These retinal changes correlate with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
findings of cerebral atrophy, positron emission tomography (PET) findings of 
increased amyloid load, and neuropsychological testing results suggesting 
cognitive dysfunction. We conclude that retinal microstructural and 
microvascular abnormalities may serve as biomarkers for the early detection and 
clinical monitoring of AD and as tools for evaluating potential treatment 
effects. Future studies should focus on standardizing protocols for in vivo 
ophthalmic imaging to measure retinal pathology in AD and MCI.

Copyright © 2024 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/IIO.0000000000000549
PMCID: PMC11817161
PMID: 39710907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: G.Y. is a consultant for Zeiss (and other 
companies). The remaining authors declare that they have no conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


22. Br J Pharmacol. 2025 Apr;182(7):1582-1598. doi: 10.1111/bph.17426. Epub 2024
Dec  22.

Hydroxyl chalcone derivative DK02 as a multi-target-directed ligand for 
Alzheimer's disease: A preclinical study in zebrafish.

Haridevamuthu B(1), Bharti AK(1), Nayak SPRR(1), Narayanan D(1), Loganathan 
Sumathi D(2), Chagaleti BK(3), Saravanan V(3), Rajagopal R(4), Alfarhan A(4), 
Muthu Kumaradoss K(3), Arockiaraj J(1).

Author information:
(1)Toxicology and Pharmacology Laboratory, Department of Biotechnology, Faculty 
of Science and Humanities, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, 
Kattankulathur, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Dr. M.G.R. 
Educational and Research Institute, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Research Lab, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, SRM 
College of Pharmacy, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Kattankulathur, 
Tamil Nadu, India.
(4)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Sciences, King Saud 
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a widespread 
neurodegenerative condition characterized by amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and tau 
protein aggregates, leading to significant cognitive decline. Existing 
treatments primarily offer symptomatic relief, underscoring the urgent need for 
novel therapies that address multiple AD pathways. This study evaluates the 
efficacy of DK02, a hydroxyl chalcone derivative, in a scopolamine-induced 
dementia model in zebrafish, hypothesizing that it targets several 
neurodegenerative mechanisms simultaneously.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: We employed a blend of experiments, including in silico 
docking, in vitro enzyme inhibition assays and in vivo zebrafish models, to 
assess therapeutic effects of DK02. Methods included molecular docking to 
forecast interaction sites, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition testing, and 
various behavioural and histopathological analyses to gauge DK02's cognitive and 
neuroprotective impacts.
KEY RESULTS: DK02 emerged as a potent AChE inhibitor via virtual screening, and 
significantly enhanced cognitive functions in zebrafish, by improving memory 
retention and reducing anxiety-like behaviours. DK02 also displayed strong 
antioxidant properties, reducing oxidative stress-induced neuronal damage. 
Histopathological analysis confirmed its neuroprotective effects by showing 
decreased amyloid plaque burden and mitigated structural brain damage.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: DK02 shows promise as a multi-target-directed 
ligand for AD, offering a new therapeutic path by simultaneously addressing 
cholinergic, oxidative and amyloid pathways. Its potential to enhance cognitive 
functions and curtail neurodegeneration suggests advantages over current 
symptomatic treatments. Further research into DK02 mechanisms and long-term 
impacts is essential for its development in AD therapy.

© 2024 British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.17426
PMID: 39710579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Drug Discov Ther. 2025 Jan 14;18(6):375-386. doi: 10.5582/ddt.2024.01085.
Epub  2024 Dec 21.

Agarwood as a potential therapeutic for Alzheimer's disease: Mechanistic 
insights and target identification.

Ma YN(1), Hu X(1), Karako K(2), Song P(3), Tang W(2)(3), Xia Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Haikou Affiliated Hospital of Central South 
University Xiangya School of Medicine, Haikou, China.
(2)Department of Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(3)National Center for Global Health and Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by cognitive decline, memory loss, and functional impairments. 
Despite extensive research, its pathogenesis remains incompletely understood, 
and effective treatments are limited. This study explored the therapeutic 
potential of agarwood in AD by integrating network pharmacology, protein-protein 
interaction (PPI) network analysis, and single-cell expression analysis. The 
results revealed that agarwood compounds may modulate key inflammatory genes 
such as NFKB1, STAT1, and TLR4, alleviating neuroinflammation; enhance the 
expression of HSP90 and regulate KDR signaling to improve blood-brain barrier 
(BBB) integrity; and promote the activity of PTPN11 and CXCR4 to support 
oligodendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) repair and remyelination. Single-cell 
expression analysis highlighted cell-type-specific expression patterns, 
particularly in OPCs and endothelial cells, underscoring their relevance in AD 
pathology. Agarwood's multi-dimensional therapeutic potential positions it as a 
promising candidate for the development of novel AD treatments.

DOI: 10.5582/ddt.2024.01085
PMID: 39710406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Brain Res. 2025 Mar 1;1850:149416. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149416. Epub 
2024 Dec 20.

Inhibition of autophagy attenuates cognitive decline and mitochondrial 
dysfunction in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model with chronic cerebral 
hypoperfusion.

Yang Q(1), Chen T(2), Li S(3), Yang C(4), Zheng X(5), Mao S(6), Liu N(7), Mo 
S(4), Li D(3), Yang M(8), Lu Z(8), Tang L(8), Huang X(9), Liu X(10), Jian C(11), 
Yin Y(12), Shang J(13).

Author information:
(1)Medical School, Jinan University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China; Department of 
Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Youjiang Medical University for Nationalities, 
Baise, Guangxi, China; Department of Neurology, Baise People's Hospital, Baise, 
Guangxi, China.
(2)School of Basic Medicine, Guangdong Medical University, DongGuang, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Baise People's Hospital, Baise, Guangxi, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Youjiang Medical University 
for Nationalities, Baise, Guangxi, China.
(5)Department of Geriatrics, Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical University, 
Guilin, Guangxi, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, The First People's Hospital of Jiande, Hangzhou, 
China.
(7)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beihua University, Jilin, China.
(8)Graduate School of Youjiang Medical University for Nationalities, Baise, 
Guangxi, China.
(9)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Affiliated Hospital of Youjiang 
Medical University for Nationalities, Baise, Guangxi, China.
(10)Department of Neurology, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, China.
(11)Medical School, Jinan University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China; Department of 
Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Youjiang Medical University for Nationalities, 
Baise, Guangxi, China; Key Laboratory of Research on Clinical Molecular 
Diagnosis for High Incidence Diseases in Western Guangxi of Guangxi Higher 
Education Institutions, Baise, Guangxi, China. Electronic address: 
jianchongdong@163.com.
(12)Department of Gastroenterology, Affiliated Hospital of Youjiang Medical 
University for Nationalities, Baise, Guangxi, China. Electronic address: 
yyixia@163.com.
(13)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Youjiang Medical University 
for Nationalities, Baise, Guangxi, China; Key Laboratory of Research on Clinical 
Molecular Diagnosis for High Incidence Diseases in Western Guangxi of Guangxi 
Higher Education Institutions, Baise, Guangxi, China. Electronic address: 
shangjw1979@yahoo.co.jp.

This study aimed to investigate the impact of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion 
(CCH) on cognitive function, amyloid-β (Aβ) deposition, cellular autophagy, and 
mitochondrial dynamics in an Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse model, and to 
evaluate the intervention effects of autophagy modulation on these outcomes. 
Utilizing the APP/PS1 mouse model combined with CCH, we assessed cognitive 
function, Aβ deposition, and the expression levels of relevant proteins through 
behavioral tests and immunohistochemical analysis. Our findings revealed 
pronounced cognitive deficits and increased Aβ deposition in the AD + CCH group 
mice, along with upregulation of mitochondrial fission proteins (Drp1, Fis1) and 
downregulation of mitochondrial fusion proteins (Opa1, Mfn1), indicating a shift 
towards mitochondrial fission and promoting cell apoptosis. Additionally, 
alterations were observed in the expression levels of cellular autophagy-related 
proteins (LC3-II, P62), which were reversed by treatment with autophagic 
inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3-MA). Furthermore, the expression of mitochondrial 
autophagy-related proteins PINK1 and Parkin was affected, with 3-MA alleviating 
this effect. In summary, our study elucidates the complex interplay among 
cognitive decline, increased Aβ deposition, and mitochondrial dysfunction in the 
AD + CCH model, and suggests that modulating autophagy could be a potential 
therapeutic strategy for treating the AD + CCH model.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149416
PMID: 39710054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


25. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2024 Dec 21;16(1):271. doi: 10.1186/s13195-024-01644-z.

Brain derived β-interferon is a potential player in Alzheimer's disease 
pathogenesis and cognitive impairment.

Wang Q(1)(2), Yuan S(3), Wang C(3), Huang D(3), Zhang M(3), Zhan Y(3), Gao 
F(4)(3), Shi J(4), Levey AI(5), Shen Y(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, Division 
of Life Sciences and Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, University 
of Science and Technology of China, Lujiang Road 17, Hefei, 230001, China. 
qiongw@ustc.edu.cn.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, University of Science and Technology of China, Huangshan Road 443, 
Hefei, 230027, China. qiongw@ustc.edu.cn.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, University of Science and Technology of China, Huangshan Road 443, 
Hefei, 230027, China.
(4)Department of Neurology and Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, Division 
of Life Sciences and Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, University 
of Science and Technology of China, Lujiang Road 17, Hefei, 230001, China.
(5)Goizueta Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(6)Department of Neurology and Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, Division 
of Life Sciences and Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, University 
of Science and Technology of China, Lujiang Road 17, Hefei, 230001, China. 
yongshen@ustc.edu.cn.
(7)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, University of Science and Technology of China, Huangshan Road 443, 
Hefei, 230027, China. yongshen@ustc.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Recent research has postulated that the activation of 
cGAS-STING-interferon signalling pathways could be implicated in the 
pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the precise types of 
interferons and related cytokines, both from the brain and periphery, 
responsible for cognitive impairment in patients with AD remain unclear.
METHODS: A total of 131 participants (78 [59.5%] female and 53 [40.5%] male; 
mean [SD] age, 61.5 [7.6] years) with normal cognition and cognitive impairment 
from the China Aging and Neurodegenerative Initiative cohort were included. CSF 
and serum IFNα-2a, IFN-β, IFN-γ, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-10, MCP-1and CXCL-10 were 
tested. The correlation between these interferons and related cytokines with AD 
core biomarkers in the CSF and plasma, cognition performance, and brain MRI 
measures were analysed.
RESULTS: We found that only CSF IFN-β levels were significantly elevated in 
Alzheimer's disease compared to normal cognition. Furthermore, CSF IFN-β levels 
were significantly associated with AD core biomarkers (CSF P-tau and Aβ42/Aβ40 
ratio) and cognitive performance (MMSE and CDR score). Additionally, the CSF 
IFN-β levels were significantly correlated with the typical pattern of brain 
atrophy in AD (such as hippocampus, amygdala, and precuneus). In contrast, CSF 
IL-6 levels were significantly elevated in non-AD cognitively impaired patients 
compared to other groups. Moreover, CSF IL-6 levels were significantly 
associated with cognitive performance in non-AD individuals and correlated with 
the vascular cognitive impairment-related MRI markers (such as white matter 
hyperintensity).
CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate that distinct inflammatory molecules are 
associated with different cognitive disorders. Notably, CSF IFN-β levels are 
significantly linked to the pathology and cognitive performance of AD, 
identifying this interferon as a potential target for AD therapy.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-024-01644-z
PMCID: PMC11662585
PMID: 39709485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: This study was 
approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of the 
USTC in Hefei, China (2019KY-26). All participants provided written informed 
consent for participating in the study. The Clinical Trial Number: 
(ChiCTR1900024777|| http://www.chictr.org.cn/ ) with the Clinical Trial Registry 
(July 27, 2019). Consent for publication: No applicable. Competing interests: 
The authors declare no competing interests.


26. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2025 Apr;33(4):438-449. doi: 
10.1016/j.jagp.2024.11.011. Epub 2024 Nov 26.

Do Caregivers Value the New Antiamyloid Treatments for Alzheimer's Disease More 
Than Home-Based Care?

Morehouse CR(1), Hendriks S(1), Rabbee N(2), Kim SY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioethics (CRM, SH, SYK), Clinical Center, National Institutes 
of Health Clinical Center, Bethesda, MD.
(2)Biostatistics and Clinical Epidemiology Service (NR), Clinical Center, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.
(3)Department of Bioethics (CRM, SH, SYK), Clinical Center, National Institutes 
of Health Clinical Center, Bethesda, MD. Electronic address: scott.kim@nih.com.

OBJECTIVE: The new antiamyloid medications Lecanemab (Leqembi) and donanemab 
(Kisunla) are the first disease-modifying treatments for Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) to receive full FDA approval. However, some commentators question whether 
the drugs' benefits outweigh their risks, burdens, and costs to patients. This 
study assessed the perceived value of these medications by asking caregivers of 
persons with AD to compare them to a widely used intervention in AD management: 
home-based care.
DESIGN: Online survey (March 27th-April 17th, 2024) of 392 AD caregivers 
recruited via CloudResearch Prime Panels to match the U.S. public in education, 
household income, race, and ethnicity. The survey used vignettes describing 
antiamyloid medication and 25 hours/week of home-based care (estimated to be of 
similar monetary value). After rating the desirability of medication and 
home-based care, respondents indicated their preference for which intervention 
they wanted their loved one's insurance to cover.
RESULTS: Respondents expressed a desire for their loved ones to receive both the 
medication and home-based care. Over half (56.9%) favored home-based care 
coverage. Those preferring medication coverage were more likely to believe its 
benefits outweigh its risks and burdens. Preference for medication coverage was 
also associated with being male, Hispanic, less educated, and correctly 
answering fewer comprehension questions.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show most caregivers perceive modest clinical value in 
the novel antiamyloid therapies, and the decision to use these drugs will be 
preference-sensitive, pointing to the need for thorough informed consent 
discussions.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2024.11.011
PMID: 39709278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES The authors thank Connor Sullivan 
for assisting with the qualitative analysis of the open-ended responses. This 
research was supported by the Intramural Research Program of the National 
Institutes of Health Clinical Center. The views expressed are the authors’; they 
do not represent any position or policy of the National Institutes of Health, 
the Department of Health and Human Services, or the U.S. government. The authors 
report no conflicts with any product mentioned or concept discussed in this 
article. The data has not been previously presented orally or by poster at 
scientific meetings.


27. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Feb;290:139041. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.139041.  Epub 2024 Dec 19.

Tetrahydrofolic acid accelerates amyloid fibrillization, decreases cytotoxic 
oligomers and suppresses their toxicity.

Wang W(1), Wu X(1), Zhang Q(1), Zhang T(1), Jiang L(1), Qu L(1), Lu F(1), Liu 
F(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Fermentation Microbiology, Ministry of 
Education, Tianjin 300457, PR China; Tianjin Key Laboratory of Industrial 
Microbiology, Tianjin 300457, PR China; College of Biotechnology, Tianjin 
University of Science and Technology, Tianjin 300457, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Industrial Fermentation Microbiology, Ministry of 
Education, Tianjin 300457, PR China; Tianjin Key Laboratory of Industrial 
Microbiology, Tianjin 300457, PR China; College of Biotechnology, Tianjin 
University of Science and Technology, Tianjin 300457, PR China. Electronic 
address: fufengliu@tust.edu.cn.

Soluble cytotoxic oligomers produced during the fibrillation of both α-synuclein 
(αS) and amyloid-β protein (Aβ) are key pathogenic factors in Parkinson's 
disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Reducing toxic oligomers by 
regulating the aggregation process of αS and Aβ is an important strategy for the 
treatment of PD and AD. Herein, tetrahydrofolic acid (THF) is found to 
accelerate amyloid fibrillization, decreases cytotoxic oligomers and suppresses 
their toxicity. Thioflavin T and atomic force microscopy assays results showed 
that THF was able to accelerate the formation of dense fibrils from αS and Aβ in 
a dose-dependent manner. Strikingly, this was accompanied by a reduction in the 
abundance of toxic oligomers, and these results were confirmed by DB. Meanwhile, 
MTT and FDA/PI assays demonstrated that THF-induced accelerated fibril formation 
was accompanied by a reduction in αS- and Aβ-induced cytotoxicity. In addition, 
the lifespan of genetically modified αS and Aβ expressing C. elegans was 
extended by feeding THF, although plaque deposits of αS and Aβ increased. These 
findings suggest that THF enhances the conversion of αS and Aβ oligomers into 
less toxic fibrils and is a potential therapeutic agent for PD and AD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.139041
PMID: 39708879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


28. Neurobiol Aging. 2025 Mar;147:60-67. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2024.12.002.  Epub 2024 Dec 13.

Modeling functional loss in Alzheimer's Disease through cognitive reserve and 
cognitive state: A panel data longitudinal study.

Veronelli L(1), Tosi G(2), Romano D(2); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Milano-Bicocca and Milan Center for 
Neuroscience, Milan, Italy; Department of Neurorehabilitation Sciences, Casa di 
Cura IGEA, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: laura.veronelli@unimib.it.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Milano-Bicocca and Milan Center for 
Neuroscience, Milan, Italy.

Cognitive Reserve (CR) refers to the brain's ability, supported by active and 
modifiable forms of lifestyle compensation, to cope with neural changes due to 
age or disease, delaying the onset of cognitive deficits. In CR studies, 
neuropsychological performances and functional autonomy are considered 
alternative outcomes. While decreased functional independence gains importance 
in dementia diagnosis and monitoring, cognitive functioning may play a role in 
staging its severity. The main aim of the present study was to test a 
longitudinal model of Alzheimer's Disease (AD), in which CR (years of education) 
and current cognitive status (Mini-Mental State Examination, MMSE, score) would 
predict clinical progression in terms of loss of functional independence at a 
later time. From the ADNI database, we considered 308 AD participants, and for 
180 of them, we could extract CSF Aβ1-42 baseline levels as an index of amyloid 
burden. Functional decline (one-year delta score at the Functional Activities of 
Daily Living Questionnaire) was explained by the CR and MMSE score interaction 
net of age; a trend was found also when controlling for amyloid burden. 
Functional decline at one year was increased for patients with high CR levels 
and low MMSE and with low CR and high cognitive state, compared to the opposite. 
The present investigation demonstrated the mutual role of past acquired CR and 
current cognitive status in predicting functional progression in AD. The study 
suggests a way to predictively interpret available demographic and clinical 
data, defining differential longitudinal trajectories that might be useful for 
clinical management.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2024.12.002
PMID: 39708761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


29. J Neurol Sci. 2025 Jan 15;468:123332. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2024.123332. Epub
2024  Dec 16.

Qualitative and quantitative relationships between comorbid seizures and 
dementia among hospitalized stroke patients.

Dejuk M(1), Lekoubou A(2), Saggi S(3), Agrawal A(4), Bonilha L(5), Chinchilli 
VM(6), Ovbiagele B(7).

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, Penn State University, Hershey, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Penn State University, Hershey Medical Center, 
Hershey, PA, USA. Electronic address: alekouboulooti@pennstatehealth.psu.edu.
(3)University of California, San Francisco School of Medicine, USA.
(4)Nepalese Army Institute of Health Sciences-College of Medicine, USA.
(5)Medical University of South Carolina, Department of Neurology, USA.
(6)Department of Public Health Sciences, College of Medicine, Penn State 
University, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, USA.

This study examines the relationship between comorbid seizures and dementia 
among stroke patients using the 2017 Nationwide Inpatient Sample (NIS), the 
largest publicly available inpatient healthcare database in the United States. 
We analyzed data from 128,341 stroke patients, including those with ischemic and 
hemorrhagic strokes, to determine the prevalence of seizures and dementia, and 
the association between these conditions. Our findings reveal that 7.58 % of 
stroke patients experienced seizures, while 12.2 % had dementia. Logistic 
regression analysis demonstrated that stroke patients with seizures had 
significantly higher odds of also having dementia (OR: 2.08, 95 % CI: 
1.95-2.21), with similar trends observed across stroke subtypes. Specifically, 
the association was strongest among ischemic stroke patients (OR: 2.38, 95 % CI: 
2.21-2.56). These results suggest a critical link between seizures and cognitive 
decline in stroke survivors, underscoring the need for integrated management 
strategies that address both neurological and cognitive health. Future research 
should explore the underlying mechanisms and potential therapeutic interventions 
to mitigate the risk of dementia in stroke patients with seizures.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2024.123332
PMID: 39708696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Jan;154:108075. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2024.108075. Epub
2024  Dec 17.

Multi-target directed ligands inspired natural products as an effective approach 
for the treatment of complex chronic health disorders.

Shaaban AE(1), Ali AR(2), Ayyad SN(3), Badria FA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura 35516, Egypt; Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Horus 
University, New Damietta 34518, Egypt.
(2)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura 35516, Egypt.
(3)Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Damietta University, New 
Damietta 34511, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura 35516, Egypt. Electronic address: badri002@mans.edu.eg.

Complex diseases involve multifaceted etiological components, which limit the 
effectiveness of conventional targeted therapies. Therefore, standard medicinal 
treatments often face significant challenges and failures when addressing these 
disease conditions. Furthermore, the growing interest in multidrug resistance 
(MDR), the occurrence of adverse drug reactions related to use traditional 
approaches, and the limited clinical efficacy of single-target drug therapy have 
increased the demand for innovative drug treatments. In this rapidly evolving 
era, the exploration of multi-target directed ligands (MTDLs) derived from 
natural products has granted us access to a wide range of compounds with 
medicinal properties. The allure of these MTDLs lies in their unique ability to 
minimize side effects from using two medicinal agents, establishing them as the 
preferred choice for drug developers. MTDLs have been recognized for their 
extraordinary capacity to collectively hinder multiple pathways implicated in 
the development of intricate diseases by merging or linking active molecules 
obtained from these sources. This review delves into promising MTDLs derived 
from natural products, which modulates diverse biological pathways implicated in 
complex diseased conditions particularly Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, cardiac 
disorders and inflammatory conditions.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2024.108075
PMID: 39708551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


31. Biosens Bioelectron. 2025 Mar 1;271:117078. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2024.117078. 
Epub 2024 Dec 17.

Triple-mode sensing platform for acetylcholinesterase activity monitoring and 
anti-Alzheimer's drug screening based on a highly stable Cu (I) compound.

Cai Y(1), Li Y(1), Wang Y(2), Xu Y(1), Chen T(1), Xue R(2), Liu Y(2), Chen W(3), 
Yang X(4), Liu Z(1), Bao X(1), Huang Z(5).

Author information:
(1)Jilin Provincial Key Laboratory of Tooth Development and Bone Remodeling, 
School and Hospital of Stomatology, Jilin University, 130021, Changchun, China.
(2)College of Chemistry, Jilin University, 130012, Changchun, China.
(3)School of Chips, XJTLU Entrepreneur College (Taicang), Xi'an 
Jiaotong-Liverpool University, 215400, Suzhou, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Electroanalytical Chemistry, Changchun Institute of 
Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 130022, Changchun, China.
(5)College of Chemistry, Jilin University, 130012, Changchun, China. Electronic 
address: huangzhen@jlu.edu.cn.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and AChE inhibitors play critical roles in the early 
diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Herein, a 
fluorescence/colorimetry/smartphone triple-mode sensing platform was constructed 
for both AChE activity monitoring and AChE inhibitor screening by exploring a Cu 
(I) compound, Cu3I (SR)2 (R = CH2CH2NH2), as a fluorescent probe. In comparison 
of most other fluorescent probes, Cu3I (SR)2 presented exceptional stability 
against pH, temperature, UV irradiation, redox agents, and metal ions, as well 
as good recyclability due to its unique chemical structure. We further found the 
fluorescence emission of Cu3I (SR)2 could be quenched by MnO2 nanosheet (NS) via 
inner filter effect, and restored by thiocholine (TCh) generated from the 
hydrolysis of acetylthiocholine iodide (ATCh) in the catalysis of AChE. On this 
basis, a fluorescence "turn-on" assay was developed for monitoring AChE activity 
with a detection limit of 0.03 U/L and a detection range of 0.25-50 U/L. This 
method demonstrates great potential for real-time detection of AChE activity in 
biological samples and screening of AChE inhibitors obtained from herbal 
extracts as anti-AD agents. Additionally, Cu3I (SR)2/MnO2 NS sensing system also 
exhibited a color change from brown to colorless as the increasing AChE 
activity, which allowed the colorimetric and smartphone detection of AChE 
activity.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2024.117078
PMID: 39708491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


32. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2024 Dec 21;20(1):4. doi:
10.1007/s11481-024-10159-1.

Memantine/Rosuvastatin Therapy Abrogates Cognitive and Hippocampal Injury in an 
Experimental Model of Alzheimer's Disease in Rats: Role of TGF-β1/Smad Signaling 
Pathway and Amyloid-β Clearance.

Zidan EF(1), El-Mezayen NS(1), Elrewini SH(2), Afify EA(3), Ali MA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Pharos 
University in Alexandria, Alexandria, Egypt.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Alexandria 
University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Alexandria, Alexandria, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, PharmD Program, Egypt-Japan 
University of Science and Technology (E-JUST), Alexandria, Egypt. 
mennatallah.ali@ejust.edu.eg.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder of 
complex pathogenesis and multiple interacting signaling pathways where 
amyloidal-β protein (Aβ) clearance plays a crucial role in cognitive decline. 
Herein, the current study investigated the possible modulatory effects of 
memantine/ rosuvastatin therapy on TGF-β1/p-Smad/p21 signaling pathway and their 
correlation to the blood brain barrier transporters involved in Aβ-clearance and 
microRNAs as a novel molecular mechanism in AD treatment. AD was induced by a 
single intracerebroventricular streptozotocin injection (ICV-STZ, 3 mg/kg) in 
rats and drug therapy was continued for 28 days after AD induction. Efficacy was 
monitored by applying a battery of behavioral assessments, as well as 
biochemical, histopathological, molecular and gene expression techniques. The 
upregulated TGF-β1-signaling in the untreated rats was found to be highly 
correlated to transporters and microRNAs governing Aβ-efflux; ABCA1/miRNA-26 and 
LRP1/miRNA-205 expressions, rather than RAGE/miRNA-185 controlling Aβ-influx; an 
effect that was opposed by the tested drugs and was found to be correlated with 
the abolished TGF-β1-signaling as well. Combined memantine/rosuvastatin therapy 
ameliorated the STZ evoked decreases in escape latency and number of crossovers 
in the Morris water maze test, % spontaneous alternation in the Y-maze test, and 
discrimination and recognition indices in the object recognition test. The 
evoked behavioral responses were directly related to the β-amyloid accumulation 
and the alteration in its clearance. Additionally, drug treatment increased 
brain glutathione and decreased malondialdehyde levels. These findings were 
histopathologically confirmed by a marked reduction of gliosis and restoration 
of neuronal integrity in the CA1 region of the hippocampus of the AD rats. These 
findings implicated that the memantine/rosuvastatin combination could offer a 
new therapeutic potential for AD management by abrogating the TGF-β1/p-Smad2/p21 
pathway and regulating Aβ-clearance.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-024-10159-1
PMCID: PMC11663181
PMID: 39708240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: The protocol was 
approved by the unit of research ethics approval committee (UREAC), Faculty of 
Pharmacy, PUA, Alexandria, Egypt, (PUA01201903031004). Consent to Participate: 
Not applicable. Consent for Publication: All authors read and approved the final 
manuscript. Conflicts of Interest: Authors report no conflict.


33. J Neurol. 2024 Dec 21;272(1):84. doi: 10.1007/s00415-024-12853-9.

Brain MRI volumetry and atrophy rating scales as predictors of amyloid status 
and eligibility for anti-amyloid treatment in a real-world memory clinic 
setting.

Zilioli A(1), Rosenberg A(2)(3), Mohanty R(3), Matton A(3), Granberg T(4)(5), 
Hagman G(3)(6), Lötjönen J(7), Kivipelto M(#)(3)(6)(8)(9), Westman E(#)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University-Hospital of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(2)Population Health Unit, Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(3)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department of 
Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Neuroradiology, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(6)Theme Inflammation and Aging, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(7)Combinostics Oy, Tampere, Finland.
(8)Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(9)Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(10)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer Research, Department 
of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, 
Stockholm, Sweden. Eric.westman@ki.se.
(#)Contributed equally

Predicting amyloid status is crucial in light of upcoming disease-modifying 
therapies and the need to identify treatment-eligible patients with Alzheimer's 
disease. In our study, we aimed to predict CSF-amyloid status and eligibility 
for anti-amyloid treatment in a memory clinic by (I) comparing the performance 
of visual/automated rating scales and MRI volumetric analysis and (II) combining 
MRI volumetric data with neuropsychological tests and APOE4 status. Two hundred 
ninety patients underwent a comprehensive assessment. The cNeuro cMRI software 
(Combinostics Oy) provided automated computed rating scales and volumetric 
analysis. Amyloid status was determined using data-driven CSF biomarker cutoffs 
(Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio), and eligibility for anti-Aβ treatment was assessed according 
to recent recommendations published after the FDA approval of the anti-Aβ drug 
aducanumab. The automated rating scales and volumetric analysis demonstrated 
higher performance compared to visual assessment in predicting Aβ status, 
especially for parietal-GCA (AUC = 0.70), MTA (AUC = 0.66) scores, hippocampal 
(AUC = 0.68), and angular gyrus (AUC = 0.69) volumes, despite low global 
accuracy. When we combined hippocampal and angular gyrus volumes with RAVLT 
immediate recall and APOE4 status, we achieved the highest accuracy 
(AUC = 0.82), which remained high even in predicting anti-Aβ treatment 
eligibility (AUC = 0.81). Our study suggests that automated analysis of atrophy 
rating scales and brain volumetry outperforms operator-dependent visual rating 
scales. When combined with neuropsychological and genetic information, this 
computerized approach may play a crucial role not only in a research context but 
also in a real-world memory clinic. This integration results in a high level of 
accuracy for predicting amyloid-CSF status and anti-Aβ treatment eligibility.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-024-12853-9
PMCID: PMC11663166
PMID: 39708177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of interest: AZ, AR, RM, 
AM, GH, TG, EW declare no conflicts of interest. MK serves on the scientific 
advisory boards for Combinostics. JL is a shareholder at Combinostics. Ethical 
standard statement: The Karolinska University Hospital electronic database and 
biobank for clinical research (GEDOC) and this study have received ethical 
approval (Regional Ethical Review Board in Sweden). All procedures were 
performed with the participants’ informed consent.


34. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2024 Dec 20;12(1):194. doi:
10.1186/s40478-024-01907-8.

pTau pathology in the retina of TAU58 mice: association with ganglion cell 
degeneration and implications on seeding and propagation of pTau from human 
brain lysates.

Walkiewicz G(1), Ronisz A(2), Ospitalieri S(2), Tsaka G(2)(3)(4), Tomé SO(2), 
Vandenberghe R(5)(6), von Arnim CAF(7)(8), Rousseau F(3)(4), Schymkowitz 
J(3)(4), De Groef L(9), Thal DR(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuropathology, Department of Imaging and Pathology, Leuven 
Brain Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. gregory.walkiewicz@gmail.com.
(2)Laboratory of Neuropathology, Department of Imaging and Pathology, Leuven 
Brain Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(3)Switch Laboratory, VIB Center for Brain & Disease Research, VIB, Leuven, 
Belgium.
(4)Switch Laboratory, Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, KU Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(5)Laboratory for Cognitive Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, Leuven Brain 
Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(6)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(8)Department of Geriatrics, University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen, 
Germany.
(9)Cellular Communication and Neurodegeneration Research Group, Department of 
Biology, Leuven Brain Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(10)Laboratory of Neuropathology, Department of Imaging and Pathology, Leuven 
Brain Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. dietmar.thal@kuleuven.be.
(11)Department of Pathology, UZ Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. 
dietmar.thal@kuleuven.be.

The accumulation of abnormal phosphorylated Tau protein (pTau) in neurons of the 
brain is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). PTau pathology 
also occurs in the retina of AD cases. Accordingly, questions arise whether 
retinal pTau can act as a potential seed for inducing cerebral pTau pathology 
and whether retinal pTau pathology causes degeneration of retinal neurons. To 
address these questions, we (1) characterized pTau pathology in the retina of 
TAU58 mice, (2) determined the impact of pTau pathology on retinal ganglion cell 
density, and (3) used this mouse model to test whether brain lysates from AD 
and/or non-AD control cases induce seeding in the retina and/or propagation into 
the brain. TAU58 mice developed retinal pTau pathology at 6 months of age, 
increasing in severity and extent with age. TAU58 mice showed reduced retinal 
ganglion cell density compared to wild-type mice, which declined with age and 
pTau pathology progression. Brain lysates from non-AD Braak neurofibrillary 
tangle (NFT) stage I controls increased retinal pTau pathology after subretinal 
injection compared to phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) but did not accelerate 
pTau pathology in the brain. In contrast, subretinally injected AD brain lysates 
accelerated pTau pathology in the retina and the contralateral superior 
colliculus. Subretinal injection of AD brain lysates, but not of non-AD brain, 
induced in this context a neuroinflammatory response in the retina and in the 
contralateral primary visual cortex. These results lead to the following 
conclusions: (1) Brain lysates from AD and non-AD sources can accelerate 
tauopathy within the retina. (2) The anterograde propagation of pTau pathology 
from the retina to the brain can be triggered by subretinal injections of AD 
brain lysates. (3) Such subretinal injections also provoke a neuroinflammatory 
response in both the retina and the visual cortex. (4) The accumulation of 
retinal pTau is associated with the degeneration of the involved ganglion cells, 
indicating that retinal tauopathy might contribute to vision impairment in the 
elderly and underscore the retina's potential role in spreading tau pathology to 
the brain.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-024-01907-8
PMCID: PMC11662635
PMID: 39707519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All autopsies were carried out according to local legislation with 
the appropriate consent. Ethical approval for the use of the cases was granted 
by the ethical committee of Ulm University (Germany) and UZ/KU-Leuven ethical 
committee (Belgium). In this study, the use of seeds from human brain tissue was 
approved by the UZ/KU-Leuven ethical committee (S-64492) (Belgium). The use of 
animals was approved by the KU-Leuven ethical committee for animal the 
experiments conducted here (P169/2020). Consent to publish: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: DRT received consultant speaker honorary from Biogen (USA) 
and Muna Therapeutics (Belgium), and collaborated with Novartis Pharma AG 
(Switzerland), Probiodrug (Germany), GE-Healthcare (UK), and Janssen 
Pharmaceutical Companies (Belgium). DRT acts as vice-chair of the ISTAART 
professional interest area “The eye as a biomarker for AD”.CAFvA received 
honoraria from serving on the scientific advisory board of Biogen, Roche, Novo 
Nordisk, Biontech, Lilly and Dr. Willmar Schwabe GmbH &Co. KG, MindAhead UG and 
has received funding for travel and speaker honoraria from Biogen, Roche 
diagnostics AG, Novartis, Medical Tribune Verlagsgesellschaft mbH, 
Landesvereinigung für Gesundheit und Akademie für Sozialmedizin Niedersachsen e. 
V., FomF GmbH and Dr. Willmar Schwabe GmbH &Co. KG and has received research 
support from Roche diagnostics AG and research funding from the Innovationsfond 
(Fund of the Federal Joint Committee, Gemeinsamer Bundesausschuss, G-BA Grants 
No. VF1_2016-201; 01NVF21010; 01VSF21019). SOT acts as consultant for Muna 
Therapeutics (Belgium).


35. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2024 Dec 20;12(1):193. doi:
10.1186/s40478-024-01901-0.

Paradoxical attenuation of early amyloid-induced cognitive impairment and 
synaptic plasticity in an aged APP/Tau bigenic rat model.

Emmerson JT(1), Do Carmo S(1), Lavagna A(1), Huang C(1), Wong TP(2), 
Martinez-Trujillo JC(3)(4), Cuello AC(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, McGill University, McIntyre 
Medical Building, 3655 Promenade Sir William Osler Room 1210, Montreal, H3G 1Y6, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, H4H 1R3, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Schulich School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Robarts Research Institute and Brain and Mind Institute, University 
of Western Ontario Lawson Health Research InstituteOxford University, Oxford, 
ON, N6A 5B7, Canada.
(4)Lawson Health Research Institute, Oxford, ON, N6A 5B7, Canada.
(5)Department of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, McGill University, McIntyre 
Medical Building, 3655 Promenade Sir William Osler Room 1210, Montreal, H3G 1Y6, 
Canada. claudio.cuello@mcgill.ca.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, Oxford University, London, ON, N6A 5B7, UK. 
claudio.cuello@mcgill.ca.

The combination of amyloid beta and tau pathologies leads to tau-mediated 
neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease. However, the relative contributions of 
amyloid beta and tau peptide accumulation to the manifestation of the 
pathological phenotype in the early stages, before the overt deposition of 
plaques and tangles, are still unclear. We investigated the longitudinal 
pathological effects of combining human-like amyloidosis and tauopathy in a 
novel transgenic rat model, coded McGill-R-APPxhTau. We compared the effects of 
individual and combined amyloidosis and tauopathy in transgenic rats by 
assessing the spatiotemporal progression of Alzheimer's-like amyloid and tau 
pathologies using biochemical and immunohistochemical methods. Extensive 
behavioral testing for learning and memory was also conducted to evaluate 
cognitive decline. Additionally, we investigated brain inflammation, neuronal 
cell loss, as well as synaptic plasticity through acute brain slice 
electrophysiological recordings and Western blotting. Evaluation of 
Alzheimer's-like amyloidosis and tauopathy, at the initial stages, unexpectedly 
revealed that the combination of amyloid pathology with the initial increment in 
phosphorylated tau exerted a paradoxical corrective effect on amyloid-induced 
cognitive impairments and led to a compensatory-like restoration of synaptic 
plasticity as revealed by electrophysiological evidence, compared to monogenic 
transgenic rats with amyloidosis or tauopathy. We discovered elevated CREB 
phosphorylation and increased expression of postsynaptic proteins as a tentative 
explanation for the improved hippocampal synaptic plasticity. However, this 
tau-induced protective effect on synaptic function was transient. As 
anticipated, at more advanced stages, the APPxhTau bigenic rats exhibited 
aggravated tau and amyloid pathologies, cognitive decline, increased 
neuroinflammation, and tau-driven neuronal loss compared to monogenic rat models 
of Alzheimer's-like amyloid and tau pathologies. The present findings propose 
that the early accumulation of phosphorylated tau may have a transient 
protective impact on the evolving amyloid pathology-derived synaptic 
impairments.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-024-01901-0
PMCID: PMC11662582
PMID: 39707506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The use of animals for this study was approved by the McGill Animal 
Care Committee under the guidelines of the Canadian Council on Animal Care 
(CCAC). Consent for publication: Not Applicable. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


36. Exp Gerontol. 2025 Jan;199:112663. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2024.112663. Epub
2024  Dec 29.

Editorial for the special issue on "microbiomes in extremes of aging".

Yadav H(1), Badal VD(2), Masternak MM(3), Leeuwenburgh C(4).

Author information:
(1)USF Center for Microbiome Research, Microbiomes Institute, Department of 
Neurosurgery and Brain Repair, University of South Florida Morsani College of 
Medicine, Tampa, FL, USA. Electronic address: hyadav@usf.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Stein Institute for Research on Aging, University 
of California San Diego, San Diego, CA, United States. Electronic address: 
vbadal@health.ucsd.edu.
(3)Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Central Florida College 
of Medicine, Orlando, FL, United States; Department of Head and Neck Surgery, 
Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland. Electronic address: 
Michal.Masternak@ucf.edu.
(4)Department of Physiology and Aging, University of Florida, Gainsville, FL, 
USA. Electronic address: cleeuwen@ufl.edu.

This special issue of the Journal of Experimental Gerontology explores the 
dynamic interplay between microbiomes and aging-related conditions. The four 
selected studies highlight the role of microbiota in Alzheimer's disease, cancer 
immunotherapy, myocardial infarction and tryptophan metabolism, providing 
insights into how microbiomes influence health and disease in aging. These 
studies underscore the potential for microbiome-targeted interventions to 
mitigate aging-related disorders and improve the quality of life for older 
adults.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2024.112663
PMID: 39706502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Eur J Med Chem. 2025 Feb 5;283:117175. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.117175.
Epub  2024 Dec 17.

Design, synthesis and biological evaluation of new H2S-releasing rivastigmine 
derivatives as neuroprotective molecules.

Sestito S(1), Cirone I(2), Sagona S(2), Runfola M(2), Raffellini L(2), La Rocca 
V(3), Citi V(2), Martelli A(4), Daniele S(2), Lai M(5), Calderone V(4), Martini 
C(2), Manera C(4), Rapposelli S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Sassari, via Muroni 23/a, 
07100, Sassari, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, University of Pisa, via Bonanno 6, 56126, Pisa, 
Italy.
(3)Retrovirus Center, Department of Translational Research and New Technologies 
in Medicine and Surgery, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, University of Pisa, via Bonanno 6, 56126, Pisa, 
Italy; Centre for Instrumentation Sharing, University of Pisa (CISUP), Italy.
(5)Retrovirus Center, Department of Translational Research and New Technologies 
in Medicine and Surgery, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy; Centre for 
Instrumentation Sharing, University of Pisa (CISUP), Italy.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, University of Pisa, via Bonanno 6, 56126, Pisa, 
Italy; Centre for Instrumentation Sharing, University of Pisa (CISUP), Italy. 
Electronic address: simona.rapposelli@unipi.it.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents one of the main challenges for the 21st 
century medical research as no disease-modifying agent has been successfully 
progressed to the market, while the number of people affected by AD is estimated 
to grow exponentially over the next years. The complex network of triggering 
factors involved in the insurgence and progression of AD can be rightly 
addressed as one of the main reasons behind the difficulty in identifying new 
pharmacological approaches. For this reason, the discovery and development of 
drugs endowed with pleiotropic activity remain the most valuable, but at the 
same time challenging, approaches to tackle down AD. Interestingly, the 
combination of active pharmacophores through molecular hybridization - or 
Multi-Target Directed Ligand strategy (MTDL) - has not been explored enough for 
this disease, despite proving to be a successfully strategy in other field, such 
as oncology. To contribute to the development of new strategies against AD, we 
decided to explore the hybridization of the marketed drug rivastigmine - 
prescribed to ameliorate AD symptomatology - with moieties capable to release 
hydrogen sulfide (H2S), a gasotransmitter with a key role in the neurological 
physiology of ageing. In particular, we identified compound 1, as a potent small 
molecule capable of inhibit AChE, preventing inflammation and ROS production in 
cultured neurons and microglia, triggering autophagy response and blocking Aβ 
fibrils propagation. Interestingly, the beneficial effects observed in vitro 
have been confirmed in vivo, since the rivastigmine derivative 1 improved the 
lifespan in a Caenorhabditis elegans model of AD.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.117175
PMID: 39705734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Simona Rapposelli reports financial 
support was provided by Tuscany Region. Simona Rapposelli reports financial 
support was provided by International Society of Drug Discovery (ISDD, Milan). 
If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.


38. Int J Surg. 2024 Oct 1;110(10):6367-6381. doi: 10.1097/JS9.0000000000001609.

Recent advances in stem cell therapy: efficacy, ethics, safety concerns, and 
future directions focusing on neurodegenerative disorders - a review.

Khandia R(1), Gurjar P(2)(3), Priyanka(4), Romashchenko V(5), Al-Hussain SA(6), 
Zaki MEA(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, Barkatullah University, Bhopal, 
Madhya Pradesh.
(2)Centre for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical College and Hospital, 
Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Chennai, Tamil Nadu.
(3)Department of Science and Engineering, Novel Global Community Educational 
Foundation, Hebersham, Australia.
(4)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, College of Veterinary Science, Guru 
AngadDev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Rampura Phul, 
Bathinda, Punjab, India.
(5)RERC Pharmacy, RUDN University, Moscow, Russian Federation.
(6)Department of Chemistry, Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic University (IMSIU), 
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Neurodegeneration refers to the gradual loss of neurons and extensive changes in 
glial cells like tau inclusions in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, α-synuclein 
inclusions in oligodendrocytes and SOD1 aggregates in astrocytes along with 
deterioration in the motor, cognition, learning, and behavior. Common 
neurodegenerative disorders are Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease 
(PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Huntington's disease (HD), 
spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA), and supranuclear palsy. There is a lack of 
effective treatment for neurodegenerative diseases, and scientists are putting 
their efforts into developing therapies against them. Stem cell therapy has 
emerged as a hope for neurodegenerative disorders since it is not only the 
damaged neurons that might be replaced, but other neuromodulators and 
neuroprotectors are secreted. Stem cell terminal differentiation before 
implantation ensures the implantation of correct cells and molecular markers 
like carbonic anhydrase II, CNPase (2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 
3'-phosphohydrolase), myelin basic protein (MBP), and myelin oligodendrocyte 
glycoprotein (MOG) elucidate the differentiation. Secretion of various growth 
factors like epidermal growth factor (EGF), keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), 
vascular endothelial growth factor-α (VEGF-α), transforming growth factor (TGF), 
and macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP) supports cell survival, cell 
proliferation, blood vessel formation, axon regeneration, and neuroglial 
functional connection formation at the site of degeneration. Adverse effects of 
stem cell therapy, like teratogenicity and differentiation in different cells 
other than the desired one under the influence of microenvironment, are a few 
key concerns. Post-transplantation improved synaptic plasticity, apoptosis 
inhibition, and reduction in tau-phosphorylation and amyloid beta (Aβ) 
production has been observed in Alzheimer's patients. A large number of 
experimental, preclinical, and clinical studies have been conducted, and 
encouraging results have been obtained. The present review exhaustively 
discusses various kinds of stem cells, their usage in treating neurodegenerative 
disorders, limitations and challenges, and ethical issues related to stem cell 
therapy.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/JS9.0000000000001609
PMCID: PMC11486982
PMID: 39705668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare a lack of any conflict of 
interest or of competing interests.


39. J Physiol. 2024 Dec 20:10.1113/JP286751. doi: 10.1113/JP286751. Online ahead
of  print.

Regulation of presynaptic homeostatic plasticity by glial signalling in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Cai Y(1), Wang T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Physiology, Georgetown University Medical 
Center, Washington, D.C., USA.
(2)Interdisciplinary Program in Neuroscience, Georgetown University Medical 
Center, Washington, D.C., USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia among the elderly, 
affects numerous individuals worldwide. Despite advances in understanding the 
molecular underpinnings of AD pathology, effective treatments to prevent or cure 
the disease remain elusive. AD is characterized not only by pathological 
hallmarks such as amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles but also by 
impairments in synaptic physiology, circuit activity and cognitive function. 
Synaptic homeostatic plasticity plays a vital role in maintaining the stability 
of synaptic and neural functions amid genetic and environmental disturbances. A 
key component of this regulation is presynaptic homeostatic potentiation, where 
increased presynaptic neurotransmitter release compensates for reduced 
postsynaptic glutamate receptor functionality, thereby stabilizing neuronal 
excitability. The role of presynaptic homeostatic plasticity in synapse 
stabilization in AD, however, remains unclear. Moreover, recent advances in 
transcriptomics have illuminated the complex roles of glial cells in regulating 
synaptic function in ageing brains and in the progression of neurodegenerative 
diseases. Yet, the impact of AD-related abnormalities in glial signalling on 
synaptic homeostatic plasticity has not been fully delineated. This review 
discusses recent findings on how glial dysregulation in AD affects presynaptic 
homeostatic plasticity. There is increasing evidence that disrupted glial 
signalling, particularly through aberrant histone acetylation and transcriptomic 
changes in glia, compromises this plasticity in AD. Notably, the sphingosine 
signalling pathway has been identified as being protective in stabilizing 
synaptic physiology through epigenetic and homeostatic mechanisms, presenting 
potential therapeutic targets for treating neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2024 The Authors. The Journal of Physiology © 2024 The Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1113/JP286751
PMCID: PMC12208685
PMID: 39705214

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


40. J Cell Mol Med. 2024 Dec;28(24):e70165. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.70165.

Tubastrine, an antioxidant molecule from Tubastraea tagusensis sun coral, in the 
reversion of oxidative stress and neuron's death induced by Aβ42.

Silva AG(1)(2), Rostirola JVC(1), Speri FD(1), Pina JG(1), Kitahara MV(3), 
Longato GB(1), Sciani JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Produtos Naturais, Universidade São Francisco, Bragança 
Paulista, Brazil.
(2)Unidade Integrada de Farmacologia e Gastroenterologia (UNIFAG), Bragança 
Paulista, Brazil.
(3)Centro de Biologia Marinha, Universidade de São Paulo, São Sebastião, Brazil.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder involving 
mitochondrial dysfunction and consequent production of reactive oxygen species 
(ROS), generated after amyloid peptide (Aβ42) accumulation. In this study, we 
isolated a new antioxidant molecule from the sun coral Tubastraea tagusensis and 
analysed it in cells exposed to oligomeric amyloid-beta peptide 1-42 (oAβ42). 
The coral was collected and immersed in methanol for the release of compounds, 
which were submitted to antioxidant DPPH and FRAP activity-guided fractionation 
using solid-phase extraction and HPLC. An active pure molecule was analysed by 
mass spectrometry and tested in SH-SY5Y differentiated neurons previously 
exposed to 5 μM oAβ42. The isolated active molecule was identified as 
tubastrine, which could significantly inhibit the cell death caused by the 
amyloid peptide. Moreover, oAβ42 increased the percentage of ROS in neurons-like 
from 40% to 65%, and the treatment with tubastrine reduced it to 50%. The 
antioxidant power of neurons-like after oAβ42 decreased significantly, while the 
compound reversed it, reaching similar values to the untreated cells. Therefore, 
tubastrine can reverse an important pathophysiological mechanism of AD, 
oxidative stress, by increasing neuronal antioxidant power and reducing ROS 
levels, able to prevent neuron-like cell death caused by oAβ42.

© 2024 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by 
Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.70165
PMCID: PMC11661463
PMID: 39705156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


41. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2024 Dec 20;37(1):1. doi: 10.1007/s40520-024-02869-6.

Neuropsychological tests at the Italian Centers for Cognitive Disorders and 
Dementias: results from a survey on 450 specialized services.

Vaccaro R(1)(2), Lorenzini P(3), Giaquinto F(1)(4), Matascioli F(1)(5), 
Carnevale G(1), Sciancalepore F(6)(7), Gasparini M(8), Salvi E(9), Corbo M(10), 
Locuratolo N(6), Vanacore N(6), Bacigalupo I(6); Permanent Table of the National 
Dementia Plan Study Group; CCDDs Study Group.

Collaborators: Arabia G, Amorosi A, Bacigalupo I, Bargagli AM, Bartorelli L, 
Basso C, Berardinelli M, Bernardi MP, Bianchi C, Blandi L, Boschi F, Bruni AC, 
Caci A, Caffarra P, Canevelli M, Capasso A, Cipollari S, Cozzari M, Di Costanzo 
A, Di Fiandra T, Di Palma A, Fabbo A, Francescone F, Gabelli C, Gainotti S, 
Galeotti F, Gambina G, Gasparini M, Giannini MA, Gilli M, Giordano M, Greco A, 
Guaita A, Izzicupo F, Landoni F, Lidonnici E, Locuratolo N, Logroscino G, 
Lombardi A, Losito G, Lubian F, Lupinetti MC, Madrigali S, Marra C, Masera F, 
Massaia M, Mastromattei A, Matera A, Matera M, Mazzoleni F, Melani C, Meloni S, 
Memeo E, Musso M, Notarelli A, Onofrj M, Palummeri E, Panetta V, Petrini C, 
Piccoli T, Pirani A, Piras S, Porro G, Possenti M, Rendina E, Riolo A, Riva L, 
Salvi E, Santini S, Scalmana S, Scarpelli N, Secreto P, Seganfreddo M, Sensi S, 
Severino C, Spadin P, Spallino P, Spinelli AL, Stracciari A, Trabucchi M, 
Vanacore N, Zaccardi A, Accardo E, Ahmad O, Ajena D, Alba G, Albanese A, 
Albergati A, Alessandria M, Alfieri P, Alimenti M, Aliprandi A, Altavilla R, 
Amarù S, Ambrosino I, Amideo F, Ammendola S, Amoruso F, Andreati C, Andreone V, 
Angeloni R, Annunziata F, Antenucci S, Appollonio I, Arabia G, Arcudi L, Ardillo 
M, Arena MCG, Arighi A, Arpino G, Bagalà A, Baiano A, Balestrino A, Barbagallo 
M, Barbuto M, Bargnani C, Barone P, Bartoli A, Bauco C, Bellelli G, Bellini MA, 
Bellora A, Benati G, Beretta S, Bergamini L, Bergonzini E, Bessi V, Bianchetti 
A, Bisio E, Boiardi R, Bollani E, Bologna L, Bolzetta F, Boni S, Borgogni T, 
Bottini G, Bottone I, Bove A, Bossio RB, Bruno G, Bruno P, Bucca C, Buganza M, 
Buzzi G, Buzzi P, Cacchio' G, Cafarelli A, Cafazzo V, Caggiula M, Cagnin A, 
Calabrese G, Calabrese GA, Calandra M, Caleri V, Calvani D, Camerlingo M, 
Cantello R, Capasso A, Capellari S, Capobianco G, Capoluongo MC, Cappelletti R, 
Capra C, Caravona N, Stucchi CM, Carluccio MA, Carteri S, Casanova A, Caserta F, 
Caso P, Cassaniti G, Cassetta E, Casson S, Castiello V, Cattaruzza T, Ceccon A, 
Ceci M, Cella S, Cenciarelli S, Censori B, Cerqua G, Cerrone P, Cervera P, 
Chemotti S, Chiari A, Chiloiro R, Cirilli L, Clerici R, Coin A, Colacino G, 
Colacioppo FP, Colao R, Colin A, Coluccia B, Conti GM, Coppola F, Coppola F, 
Corbo M, Cossu A, Costa A, Costa G, Costa M, Cotelli MS, Cottone S, Cozzolino 
MI, Crucitti A, Cumbo E, Currà A, Dallocchio C, D'amico F, D'Amore A, De Carolis 
S, De Donato M, De Feo P, De La Pierre F, De Laurentiis M, De Lauretis I, De 
Luca GP, De Palma A, De Togni L, Demontis A, D'Epiro D, Desideri G, Desiderio M, 
Di Donato M, Di Emidio G, Di Giacopo R, Di Lazzaro V, Di Leo R, Di Marco S, Di 
Quarto G, Dijk B, Dikova N, Dioguardi MS, Dominici F, Dotta M, Dotti C, Esposito 
D, Esposito S, Esposito Z, Ettorre E, Fabbo A, Faccenda G, Falanga A, Falorni M, 
Falvo F, Fappani A, Farina EIM, Fascendini S, Fattapposta F, Femminella GD, 
Ferrara S, Ferrari P, Ferraris A, Ferraro F, Ferri R, Ferrigno S, Filastro F, 
Filippi M, Finelli A, Finelli C, Fiori MR, Fiorillo F, Floris G, Fontanella A, 
Forgione L, Foti A, Foti FF, Frediani F, Frontera G, Fulgido ML, Fundarò C, 
Fuschillo C, Gabbani L, Gabelli C, Galati F, Galli R, Gallo A, Gallo L, Gallucci 
M, Galluccio G, Gareri P, Gasperi L, Gelmini G, Gennuso M, Gerace C, Ghersetti 
D, Giambattistelli F, Giantin V, Giordano B, Giorelli M, Giorgianni A, Giubilei 
F, Godi L, Gorelli L, Gragnaniello D, Granziera S, Greco G, Grella R, Grieco M, 
Grimaldi L, Guarino M, Guarnerio C, Guidi G, Guidi L, Iallonardo L, Iavarone A, 
Ingegni T, Insardà P, Ivaldi C, Izzicupo F, Labate CR, Lacava R, Lalli F, 
Lammardo AM, Laurienzo PM, Leonardi A, Leotta MR, Leuzzi R, Linarello S, 
Litterio P, Lo Coco D, Lo Storto MR, Logi C, Logullo FO, Lombardi A, Lombardi F, 
Lorido A, Losavio FA, Lubian F, Luca A, Ludovico L, Lunardelli M, Lupo M, Luzzi 
S, Maddestra M, Maio G, Maiotti M, Malagnino AM, Mancini G, Manica A, Maniscalco 
M, Manni B, Manucra A, Manzoni L, Marabotto M, Marchesiello G, Marcon M, Marcone 
A, Marconi R, Margiotta A, Marianantoni A, Mariani D, Marino G, Marino S, 
Marinoni V, Marra A, Marra C, Marrari M, Martelli M, Marti A, Martorana A, 
Marvardi M, Mascolo S, Massimiliano Massaia M, Lenzi LM, Mastronuzzi VMA, Mazzi 
ML, Mazzone A, Mecacci R, Mecocci P, Medici D, Mei D, Melandri GG, Melis M, 
Meneghello F, Menon V, Menza C, Merlo P, Milan G, Milia A, Millia CC, Minervini 
S, Mobilia CA, Moleri M, Molteni E, Moniello G, Montanari S, Mormile MT, Moro G, 
Moscato G, Mossello E, Mundo AD, Mura G, Musca F, Musso AM, Nardelli A, Neviani 
F, Nicosia V, Nociti V, Novelli A, Nuccetelli F, Onofrj M, Orefice L, Orsucci D, 
Pace A, Paci C, Padoan R, Padovani A, Palleschi L, Palmisani MT, Palmucci M, 
Palumbo P, Panico NR, Pansini A, Pantieri R, Paolello P, Pardini M, Parnetti L, 
Parrotta E, Passamonte M, Pastore A, Pastorello E, Pelini L, Pellati M, 
Pellegrino M, Pelliccioni G, Pennisi MG, Perini M, Perotta D, Persico D, 
Petrella V, Petri F, Piccininni M, Pierguidi L, Pietrella A, Pilotto A, Pinto P, 
Pirani A, Pizza V, Plantone D, Plastino M, Poddighe P, Pomati S, Pompilio A, 
Pontecorvo M, Prelle A, Previderè G, Pucci E, Puoti G, Putzu V, Rabasca A, 
Raffaele M, Rainero I, Rais C, Rana M, Ranzenigo A, Rea G, Righetti E, Rinaldi 
G, Rini A, Rizzo MR, Rizzo M, Rocca P, Roffredo L, Roglia D, Romagnoni F, Romano 
C, Romasco A, Romeo L, Ronzoni S, Rosci CE, Rosso M, Rozzini R, Ruberto E, 
Ruberto S, Rungger G, Ruotolo G, Russo F, Russo G, Sabina R, Sacco S, Sacilotto 
G, Salemi G, Salotti P, Salvatore E, Sambati L, Sanges G, Santamaria F, Santilli 
MI, Santoro M, Saponara R, Scarmagnan M, Scataglini F, Seccia L, Selmo V, Sensi 
S, Sicurella L, Silvestri A, Simone M, Sleiman I, Solla P, Sperber AS, Spinelli 
L, Spoegler F, Sucapane P, Suraci D, Tagliabue B, Tagliente S, Tamietti E, 
Tedeschi G, Tetto A, Tiezzi A, Tiraboschi P, Tognoni G, Tomasetti C, Torchia F, 
Toriello G, Trevisi G, Tripi G, Trombetta G, Tulliani A, Vaccina RA, Valentinis 
L, Varricchio G, Vasquez Giuliano A, Vella F, Verde F, Verlato C, Vezzadini G, 
Vidale S, Vignoli A, Villani D, Vitelli A, Volpentesta L, Volpi G, Vozza D, 
Wanderlingh P, Wenter C, Zaccherini D, Zanardo M, Zanette G, Zanetti M, Zanetti 
O, Zanferrari C, Zuffi M, Zupo V.

Author information:
(1)Italian National Institute of Health FONDEM Study Group, Rome, Italy.
(2)Scientific Cultural Workshops, Cognitive Therapy Center (CTC), Como, Italy.
(3)National Center for Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Italian National 
Institute of Health, Rome, Italy. patrizia.lorenzini@iss.it.
(4)Laboratory of Applied Psychology and Intervention, Department of Human and 
Social Sciences, University of Salento, Lecce, Italy.
(5)Cooperativa Sociale TAM Onlus, Naples, Italy.
(6)National Center for Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Italian National 
Institute of Health, Rome, Italy.
(7)Department of Human Neuroscience, Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(8)Center for Cognitive and Language Rehabilitation "Sinapsy", Rome, Italy.
(9)National Center for Drug Research and Evaluation, Italian National Institute 
of Health, Rome, Italy.
(10)Department of Neurorehabilitation Sciences, Casa di Cura Igea, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The Italian Fund for Alzheimer's and other dementias approved in 
2020 enabled the conducting of a survey in the Italian Centers for Cognitive 
Disorders and Dementias (CCDDs) to analyse the organization, the administrative 
features and the professionals' characteristics.
AIMS: To investigate the current use of neuropsychological (NP) tests in Italian 
CCDDs and the association between the use of a basic set of tests for 
neuropsychological assessment (NPA) and organizational/structural 
characteristics of CCDDs.
METHODS: A survey was conducted with an online questionnaire in all CCDDs 
between July 2022 and February 2023. To verify the use of a comprehensive NPA in 
the diagnosis of cognitive disorders and dementia, we identified a minimum core 
test (MCT).
RESULTS: The CCDDs using a Minimum Core Test (MCT) significantly increased from 
45.7% in 2015 to the current 57.1%. Territorial CCDDs using MCT significantly 
increased from 24.9% in 2015 to 37% in 2022 (p = 0.004). As multivariable 
results, the presence of psychologist/neuropsychologist in the staff and the 
University-based/IRCCS CCDDs increased the probability of using MCT (OR = 9.2; 
95% CI 5.6-15.0; p < 0.001 and OR = 5.4; 95% CI 1.9-15.9; p = 0.002, 
respectively), while CCDDs in Southern Italy-Islands showed a lower probability 
than those in the North (OR = 0.4; 95% CI 0.2-0.7; p = 0.001).
DISCUSSION: Almost half of CCDDs (43%) do not use MCT in their clinical 
practice. The presence of the psychologist/neuropsychologist on the staff has a 
key role in the adoption of MCT and regional differences have increased over the 
past years. NPA is crucial in the diagnostic process and in characterizing risk 
profiles in order to implement targeted interventions for risk reduction.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results could help to identify good practices aimed at 
improving dementia diagnosis. An intervention by health policymakers is urgently 
needed with the aim of improving diagnostic appropriateness and overcoming 
regional differences.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40520-024-02869-6
PMCID: PMC11662035
PMID: 39704981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: The study protocol was 
approved by the Ethics Committee of the Italian National Institute of Health 
(Protocol 0024270; 22 June 2022).


42. Metab Brain Dis. 2024 Dec 20;40(1):74. doi: 10.1007/s11011-024-01515-4.

HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor simvastatin ameliorates trimethyltin neurotoxicity 
and cognitive impairment through reversal of Alzheimer's-associated markers.

Salari A(1), Roghani M(2), Khalili M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Sciences, Shahed University, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)Neurophysiology Research Center, Shahed University, Tehran, Iran. 
mehjour@yahoo.com.
(3)Neurophysiology Research Center, Shahed University, Tehran, Iran.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder in elderly. 
The neurotoxicant trimethyltin (TMT) induces neurodegenerative changes, as 
observed in AD. The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase 
inhibitor simvastatin (SV) has shown protective and promising therapeutic 
effects in neurological disorders such as AD and Parkinson's disease. The 
present study aimed to assess neuroprotective effect of simvastatin (SV) against 
trimethyltin (TMT) memory decline and hippocampal neurodegeneration. For 
inducing AD-like phenotype, rats were i.p. injected with TMT at 8 mg/kg and were 
treated with simvastatin daily for 3 weeks at 10 or 30 mg/kg. Our analysis of 
data indicated that simvastatin-treated TMT group has lower learning and memory 
deficits in behavioral tasks comprising Barnes maze, Y maze, and novel object 
discrimination (NOD). In addition, hippocampal inflammatory, oxidative, and 
apoptotic factors were attenuated besides reduction of acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE) activity and Alzheimer's pathology factors including presenilin-1 and 
hyperphorphorylated Tau (p-Tau) upon simvastatin. Moreover, simvastatin 
treatment of TMT group inverted hippocampal changes of Wnt, β-catenin, ERK, and 
Akt, ameliorated astrocytic and microglial reactivity, and also prevented injury 
of CA1 neurons. This study unraveled that simvastatin is capable to prevent 
TMT-induced Alzheimer's-like phenotype in association with Wnt/β-catenin/ERK/Akt 
as well as restraining hippocampal neurodegeneration.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-024-01515-4
PMID: 39704877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All experimental procedures of this study were conducted under 
ethics committee supervision of Shahed University (# IR.SHAHED.REC.1401.137) 
that was in accordance to NIH guidelines for the care and use of laboratory 
animals. All efforts were made to minimize number of animals and to lower their 
sufferings. Consent for publication: All authors have read the manuscript and 
approved its submission. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


43. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(3):627-632. doi: 10.1177/13872877241289788.
Epub  2024 Oct 29.

Anti-amyloid treatments for Alzheimer's disease: A study on physicians' 
perspectives.

Shir D(1), Shiner T(1)(2), Bregman N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Cognitive Neurology Unit, Neurological Institute, Tel Aviv Medical Center, 
Tel Aviv, Israel.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, 
Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel.

Advances in amyloid targeting therapies (ATT) for Alzheimer's disease have 
introduced new options, necessitating an understanding of physicians' 
perspectives as these therapies move from trials to practice. A survey of 
Israeli specialists found that 84% were familiar with new ATT, but 60% raised 
doubts about their ability to significantly impact disease progression. 
Neurologists were more likely to recommend these treatments, but concerns 
included treatment costs and limited real-world experience. The decision to 
refer patients was influenced by patient age, financial status, and diagnostic 
test availability. Strategies to enhance physician education and improve patient 
access to ATT are suggested.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241289788
PMID: 39704652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. World J Psychiatry. 2024 Dec 19;14(12):1982-1987. doi:
10.5498/wjp.v14.i12.1982.  eCollection 2024 Dec 19.

Effect of bright-light therapy on depression and anxiety of a patient with 
Alzheimer's disease combined with sleep disorder: A case report.

Mei X(1), Zou CJ(2), Zheng CY(1), Hu J(2), Zhou DS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Affiliated Kangning Hospital of Ningbo University, 
Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang Province, China.
(2)Department of Geriatric, Ningbo Kangning Hospital, Ningbo 315201, Zhejiang 
Province, China.
(3)Key Lab, Ningbo Kangning Hospital, Ningbo 315201, Zhejiang Province, China. 
wyzhouds@sina.com.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common type of dementia due to 
neuronal impairment. In addition, psychobehavioral symptoms including severe 
sleep disorders, depression and anxiety can occur in most patients with AD.
CASE SUMMARY: We report a case of a 68-year-old woman with a 2-year history of 
AD. She initially presented with memory loss, progressively more severe, leading 
to a depressive and anxious status. The clinical symptoms also included severe 
sleep disturbances. Considering the age and health state of the patient, a 
non-pharmacological treatment of bright light therapy was used to improve her 
sleep quality. The treatment was provided for 30 minutes twice a day, during 
8:30 am to 9:00 am and 16:30 pm to 17:00 pm. After 4 weeks of therapy, the sleep 
quality notably improved, with a marked decrease in daytime sleep, increase in 
nighttime sleep, and disappearance of nocturnal activity. The depression and 
anxiety were also suppressed significantly.
CONCLUSION: This case report suggested that bright light therapy can have a 
positive effect on sleep quality in elderly patients with AD and can be used as 
an effective and safe non-pharmacological treatment.

©The Author(s) 2024. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.5498/wjp.v14.i12.1982
PMCID: PMC11622018
PMID: 39704363

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: All the authors 
report no relevant conflicts of interest for this article.


45. Stem Cells. 2025 Mar 10;43(3):sxae085. doi: 10.1093/stmcls/sxae085.

Changes in iPSC-astrocyte morphology reflect Alzheimer's disease patient 
clinical markers.

Rowland HA(1)(2), Miller G(1)(2), Liu Q(1)(3)(4), Li S(1)(2), Sharp NR(1)(2), Ng 
B(2)(5)(6), Wei T(2)(7), Arunasalam K(7), Koychev I(1), Hedegaard A(1)(8), Ribe 
EM(1)(9), Chan D(10)(11), Chessell T(12), Kocagoncu E(13), Lawson J(1), Malhotra 
P(14), Ridha BH(15), Rowe JB(13), Thomas AJ(16), Zamboni G(17)(18), Zetterberg 
H(19)(20)(21)(22)(23)(24), Cader MZ(2)(7), Wade-Martins R(2)(5), Lovestone 
S(1)(25), Nevado-Holgado A(1), Kormilitzin A(1), Buckley NJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Headington, Oxford OX3 7JX, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Kavli Institute for Nanoscience Discovery, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 
3QU, United Kingdom.
(3)Oxford Precision Psychiatry Lab, NIHR Oxford Health Biomedical Research 
Centre, Oxford OX3 7JX, United Kingdom.
(4)School of Engineering Mathematics and Technology, University of Bristol, 
Bristol BS8 1TW, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Physiology Anatomy and Genetics, University of Oxford, South 
Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QU, United Kingdom.
(6)Singapore Institute for Clinical Sciences (SICS), Agency for Science, 
Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore 117609, Republic of Singapore.
(7)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Oxford 
OX1 3QU, United Kingdom.
(8)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RE, 
United Kingdom.
(9)Department of Old Age Psychiatry, Maurice Wohl Institute of Clinical 
Neurosciences, King's College London, London SE5 8AB, United Kingdom.
(10)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 
0QQ, United Kingdom.
(11)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College, London WC1N 3AR, 
United Kingdom.
(12)Neuroscience, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Granta Park, Cambridge 
CB21 6GH, United Kingdom.
(13)Medical Research Council Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Department of 
Clinical Neurosciences and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Trust, University 
of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 7EF, United Kingdom.
(14)Department of Brain Sciences, Imperial College London, London W6 8RP, United 
Kingdom.
(15)Dementia Research Centre, UCL Institute of Neurology, London WC1N 3BG, 
United Kingdom.
(16)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle, United Kingdom.
(17)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Headington, University of 
Oxford, Oxford OX3 9DS, United Kingdom.
(18)Department of Biomedical, Metabolic, and Neural Science, University of 
Modena and Reggio Emilia, Ospedale Civile Baggiovara, 41126 Modena, Italy.
(19)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, S-431 80 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(20)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, S-431 
80 Mölndal, Sweden.
(21)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London 
WC1N 6BG, United Kingdom.
(22)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London WC1N 6BG, United Kingdom.
(23)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(24)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison 
WI 53792, United States.
(25)Currently at Janssen Medical UK, 50-100 Holmers Farm Way, High Wycombe HP12 
4EG, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Stem Cells. 2025 Jun 24;43(7):sxaf030. doi: 10.1093/stmcls/sxaf030.
    Stem Cells. 2025 Jun 24;43(7):sxaf031. doi: 10.1093/stmcls/sxaf031.

Human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) provide powerful cellular models of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and offer many advantages over non-human models, 
including the potential to reflect variation in individual-specific 
pathophysiology and clinical symptoms. Previous studies have demonstrated that 
iPSC-neurons from individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD) reflect clinical 
markers, including β-amyloid (Aβ) levels and synaptic vulnerability. However, 
despite neuronal loss being a key hallmark of AD pathology, many risk genes are 
predominantly expressed in glia, highlighting them as potential therapeutic 
targets. In this work iPSC-derived astrocytes were generated from a cohort of 
individuals with high versus low levels of the inflammatory marker YKL-40, in 
their cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). iPSC-derived astrocytes were treated with 
exogenous Aβ oligomers and high content imaging demonstrated a correlation 
between astrocytes that underwent the greatest morphology change from patients 
with low levels of CSF-YKL-40 and more protective APOE genotypes. This finding 
was subsequently verified using similarity learning as an unbiased approach. 
This study shows that iPSC-derived astrocytes from AD patients reflect key 
aspects of the pathophysiological phenotype of those same patients, thereby 
offering a novel means of modelling AD, stratifying AD patients and conducting 
therapeutic screens.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/stmcls/sxae085
PMCID: PMC11907432
PMID: 39704342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey 
Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and 
Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Alzecure, Biogen, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program 
(outside submitted work). MZC is Director of Oxford StemTech Ltd and 
Human-Centric DD Ltd. The other authors report no conflict of interests


46. Front Aging Neurosci. 2024 Dec 5;16:1488881. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1488881.
 eCollection 2024.

Action observation treatment may improve daily living activities and verb 
recovery in Parkinson's disease-dementia: findings from a preliminary randomized 
controlled trial.

Paciaroni L(1), Mastrosanti E(2), Biscetti L(1), Paolini S(1), Mauri S(1), 
Fabbietti P(3), Riccardi GR(4), Rocchi MBL(2), Pelliccioni G(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Neurology, INRCA-IRCCS, National Institute of Health and Science on 
Aging, Ancona, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, University Carlo Bo, Urbino, Italy.
(3)Unit of Geriatric Pharmacoepidemiology, INRCA-IRCCS, National Institute of 
Health and Science on Aging, Ancona, Italy.
(4)Clinical Unit of Physical Rehabilitation, INRCA-IRCCS, National Institute of 
Health and Science on Aging, Ancona, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Action observation treatment (AOT) is a novel 
rehabilitation approach aimed to the recovery of both motor and linguistic 
deficits in subjects with brain lesions. The aim of the present randomized 
controlled study was to assess the benefits of AOT treatment in the activities 
of daily living (ADLs) and in the linguistic abilities of the patients with 
Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) at mild-moderate stage (Hoehn & Yahr's stage 
scale: 2-3).
METHODS: Twenty patients were enrolled and randomly assigned to an experimental 
group (submitted to AOT) or to a control group. The experimental group 
(AOT-group) underwent the vision of a video containing 6 complex ADLs, while the 
control group (C-group) was subjected to a video-clip regarding semantic 
information of a geographical-naturalistic type without motor content. The 
treatment duration was 4 weeks. All patients underwent assessment before and 
after the treatment by the following tools: Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating 
Scale Part III (UPDRS-Part III), Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative 
Study-Activities of Daily Living Scale (ADCS-ADL), Direct Assessment of 
Functional Status (DAFS) and subtest Verb Naming of Analysis of Aphasic Deficit 
Battery (BADA). Paired samples t test was performed to compare all the variables 
of interest in the time, dividing by groups. p-value<0.05 was considered 
significant in all analyses.
RESULTS: AOT-group showed an improvement from baseline to the end of study in 
ADCS-ADL (p = 0.001), BADA (p = 0.011) and DAFS (p = 0.005), while C-group did 
not change significantly in the time.
CONCLUSION: These preliminary results suggest the potential efficacy of AOT in 
rehabilitation of ADLs and verb retrieval in people with PD. Further studies 
will be necessary to verify these findings.

Copyright © 2024 Paciaroni, Mastrosanti, Biscetti, Paolini, Mauri, Fabbietti, 
Riccardi, Rocchi and Pelliccioni.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1488881
PMCID: PMC11655465
PMID: 39703926

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


47. Front Psychiatry. 2024 Dec 5;15:1488494. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2024.1488494. 
eCollection 2024.

Using cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers to diagnose Alzheimer's disease: an 
Australian perspective.

Eratne D(1)(2)(3), Collins S(2)(4), Nestor PJ(5)(6), Pond D(7), Velakoulis D(1), 
Yates M(8)(9), Masters CL(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatry Centre, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(2)National Dementia Diagnostics Laboratory, The Florey Institute, The 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(4)Department of Medicine The Royal Melbourne Hospital, The University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(5)Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, St Lucia, QLD, 
Australia.
(6)Mater Public Hospital, South Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(7)Wicking Dementia Research and Teaching Centre, University of Tasmania, 
Hobart, TAS, Australia.
(8)Grampians Health, Ballarat, VIC, Australia.
(9)Deakin University, Burwood, VIC, Australia.

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers are currently the only clinically validated 
biofluid diagnostic test for Alzheimer's Disease (AD) available in Australia. 
Testing of CSF biomarkers via lumbar puncture (LP), including quantification of 
amyloid-β peptide, total tau protein, and phosphorylated tau, can give insight 
into underlying pathophysiological changes and provide greater certainty in 
confirming or excluding the presence of Alzheimer's disease changes compared to 
standard clinical and radiological assessments. Despite CSF analysis being a 
safe and cost-effective diagnostic method, the use of CSF biomarkers in the 
evaluation of potential AD remains limited in Australian clinical practice due 
to a variety of factors, including regional access challenges, concerns over the 
perceived invasiveness of LP and a lack of confidence among clinicians in 
interpreting the results. The advent of disease-modifying therapies as a 
potential new treatment strategy to reduce the rate of progression in people 
with AD will drive the demand for early diagnosis of AD. This perspective argues 
for broader adoption of CSF biomarker testing by providing evidence-based, 
clinically informed expert guidance on when and why to consider CSF biomarker 
testing.

Copyright © 2024 Eratne, Collins, Nestor, Pond, Velakoulis, Yates and Masters.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2024.1488494
PMCID: PMC11656523
PMID: 39703457

Conflict of interest statement: CM provides ad hoc consultancies to Actinogen 
Medical, Alterity/Prana, Acumen, Adjuvant Biotechnology, Eli Lilly Co and Eisai. 
SC has provided consultancy to Eli Lilly Australia, Eisai and Biogen Australia 
in relation to Alzheimer’s disease diagnostics. The authors declare that this 
study received funding from Roche Diagnostics. The funder had the following 
involvement in the study: funding services of a medical writer to support 
development of this publication. The remaining authors declare that the research 
was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that 
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


48. 3 Biotech. 2025 Jan;15(1):14. doi: 10.1007/s13205-024-04181-6. Epub 2024 Dec
17.

Investigating the therapeutic effects of Shenzhiling oral liquid on Alzheimer's 
disease: a network pharmacology and experimental approach.

Qin G(1)(2)(3), Song R(2), Sun J(4), Chen B(2), Liu Z(2), Han L(5), Sun B(1)(6), 
Li C(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, Shangdong China.
(2)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Binzhou Medical University 
Hospital, Binzhou, 256603 Shandong China.
(3)Medical Research Center, Binzhou Medical University Hospital, Binzhou, 
Shandong China.
(4)Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong First Medical University, 
Jinan, Shandong China.
(5)Department of Reproductive Medicine, Binzhou Medical University Hospital, 
Binzhou, Shandong China.
(6)Shandong First Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Second Affiliated Hospital, Taian, 271000 Shandong China.

There is currently no effective treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD). This 
research explored Shenzhiling Oral Liquid (SZLD) against AD by pinpointing 
crucial elements and understanding its molecular mechanisms through network 
pharmacology and in vitro experiment. First, we used network pharmacology to 
screen the main targets and mechanisms of SZLD to improve AD. Then we conducted 
experiments with Aβ42-induced SH-SY5Y cells to assess SZLD's impact, focusing 
particularly on apoptotic pathways, thereby uncovering its mechanism of action 
in AD. Through our analysis, we discovered a notable link between SZLD's effect 
on AD and apoptosis processes. Specifically, the critical proteins Casapse3 and 
BCL-2 showed strong correlations in this context. Through systematic data 
analysis and experimental verification, we unveiled the healing advantages and 
the foundational molecular mechanisms of SZLD in AD. These findings underscore 
the promising and compelling potential of targeting the PI3K/Akt signaling 
pathway and apoptosis with SZLD as a therapeutic strategy to ameliorate AD.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2024. Springer Nature or its 
licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this 
article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other 
rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of 
this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and 
applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-024-04181-6
PMCID: PMC11652558
PMID: 39703418

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestsThe authors declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


49. Front Neurol. 2024 Dec 5;15:1510729. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1510729. 
eCollection 2024.

The application of artificial intelligence in diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: 
a bibliometric analysis.

An X(#)(1), He J(#)(1)(2), Bi B(3), Wu G(3), Xu J(4)(5), Yu W(6)(7), Ren 
Z(1)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Second People's Hospital of Guizhou 
Province, Guiyang, China.
(2)Guizhou Provincial Center for Clinical Laboratory, Guiyang, China.
(3)Psychosomatic Department, The Second People's Hospital of Guizhou Province, 
Guiyang, China.
(4)Center for Tissue Engineering and Stem Cell Research, Guizhou Medical 
University, Guiyang, China.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, School of Basic Medicine, Guizhou Medical 
University, Guiyang, China.
(6)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, 
China.
(7)Key Laboratory of Human Brain Bank for Functions and Diseases of Department 
of Education of Guizhou Province, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, China.
(8)Laboratory Department of People's Hospital of Southwest Guizhou Autonomous 
Prefecture, Xingyi, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that severely impacts 
cognitive function, posing significant physical and psychological burdens on 
patients and substantial economic challenges to families and society, 
particularly in aging populations where its prevalence is rising. Current 
diagnostic and therapeutic strategies, including pharmacological treatments and 
non-pharmacological interventions, exhibit considerable limitations in early 
diagnosis, etiological treatment, and disease management. This study aims to 
investigate the application of artificial intelligence (AI) in the early 
diagnosis and progression monitoring of AD through a bibliometric analysis of 
relevant literature. A systematic search in the Web of Science Core Collection 
identified 530 publications related to AI and AD, consisting of 361 original 
research articles and 169 review articles, with a notable increase in annual 
publication rates, particularly between 2019 and 2024. The United States and 
China emerged as leading contributors, emphasizing the importance of 
international collaboration. Institutional analysis revealed that Harvard 
University and Indiana University System are at the forefront, highlighting the 
role of academic institutions in fostering interdisciplinary research. 
Furthermore, the Journal of Alzheimer's Disease was identified as the most 
influential publication outlet. Key highly cited papers provided essential 
theoretical foundations for ongoing research. This study underscores the growing 
relevance of AI in AD research and suggests promising avenues for future 
investigations, particularly in enhancing diagnostic accuracy and therapeutic 
strategies through advanced data analytics and machine learning techniques.

Copyright © 2024 An, He, Bi, Wu, Xu, Yu and Ren.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1510729
PMCID: PMC11655329
PMID: 39703357

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


50. Brain Commun. 2024 Dec 3;6(6):fcae435. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae435. 
eCollection 2024.

Evaluating clinical meaningfulness of anti-β-amyloid therapies amidst 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities concern in Alzheimer's disease.

Aljuhani M(1), Ashraf A(2), Edison P(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Radiological Science and Medical Imaging Department, College of Applied 
Medical Sciences, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz University, Al-Kharj 11942, Saudi 
Arabia.
(2)Division of Neurology, Department of Brain Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, 
Imperial College London, London W12 0NN, UK.
(3)Division of Psychological Medicine and Clinical Neurosciences, School of 
Medicine, Cardiff University, Wales CF24 4HQ, UK.

Alzheimer's disease is the most prevalent form of dementia in the elderly, which 
is clinically characterized by a gradual and progressive deterioration of 
cognitive functions. The central and early role of β-amyloid in the pathogenesis 
of Alzheimer's disease is supported by a plethora of studies including genetic 
analyses, biomarker research and genome-wide association studies in both 
familial (early-onset) and sporadic (late-onset) forms of Alzheimer's. 
Monoclonal antibodies directed against β-amyloid demonstrate slowing of the 
clinical deterioration of patients with early Alzheimer's disease. Aducanumab, 
lecanemab and donanemab clinical trials showed slowing of Alzheimer's disease 
progression on composite scores by 25-40% based on the measure used. 
Anti-β-amyloid antibodies can cause side effects of bleeding and swelling in the 
brain, called amyloid-related imaging abnormalities. Amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities typically occur early in treatment and are often asymptomatic, and 
though in rare cases, they can lead to serious or life-threatening events. The 
aim of this review is to evaluate the clinical meaningfulness of anti-β-amyloid 
therapies amidst amyloid-related imaging abnormalities concern in Alzheimer's 
disease.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcae435
PMCID: PMC11656198
PMID: 39703326

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests.


51. Cureus. 2024 Nov 19;16(11):e73991. doi: 10.7759/cureus.73991. eCollection
2024  Nov.

Exploring Tractography: An Analysis of Brain Connectivity Patterns in Men.

Sharma B(1), Mittal A(2), Sharma R(3), Rai P(4), Aulakh KK(1).

Author information:
(1)Anatomy, Maharishi Markandeshwar Institute of Medical Science &amp; Research, 
Ambala, IND.
(2)Radiodiagnosis, Maharishi Markandeshwar Institute of Medical Science &amp; 
Research, Ambala, IND.
(3)Anatomy, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh, IND.
(4)Anatomy, Government Medical College & Hospital, Chandigarh, IND.

INTRODUCTION:  White matter tracts that connect different parts of the brain 
comprise the structural connectome, which is essential to its operation. 
Assessing behavioral changes and brain health requires an understanding of these 
tracts. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), in particular, allows for the thorough 
viewing and characterization of these routes in tractography. In order to assess 
the impact of aging on white matter integrity, this study examines the 10 main 
white matter tracts in men, paying particular attention to volume, fractional 
anisotropy (FA), and mean diffusivity (MD).
MATERIALS AND METHODS:  A cohort of 49 men aged 18-50 years was examined using a 
Philips Multiva 1.5T MRI. DTI scans were performed after obtaining informed 
consent. Participants with neuronal disorders were excluded. Ten tracts were 
assessed: inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus (IFOF), superior fronto-occipital 
fasciculus (SFOF), inferior longitudinal fasciculus (ILF), superior longitudinal 
fasciculus (SLF), cingulum, corticospinal tract (CST), forceps major, forceps 
minor, uncinate fasciculus, and anterior thalamic radiation (ATR). Statistical 
analysis employed Kruskal-Wallis tests to compare age groups.
RESULTS:  Significant age-related differences were observed in the IFOF, which 
exhibited notable changes in both volume and MD. Specifically, the IFOF's volume 
peaked in the 31-40 age group (14.42 ± 6.05) and declined in the 41-50 age group 
(8.71 ± 5.07), with a statistically significant p-value of 0.019. In parallel, 
MD increased significantly with age, moving from 0.86 ± 0.08 in the 18-30 group 
to 1.09 ± 0.13 in the 31-40 group and stabilizing at 0.96 ± 0.12 in the 41-50 
group (p < 0.001). Notably, while the FA values remained relatively stable 
across age groups (p = 0.063), the increase in MD suggests a decline in neural 
efficiency or potential myelin degradation. Other tracts, including the SFOF and 
SLF, displayed stability in volume, FA, and MD across age groups, indicating a 
degree of resilience in certain neural pathways.
CONCLUSION:  This study highlights the utility of tractography in understanding 
age-related changes in white matter, such as in Alzheimer's disease, age- and 
sex-related abnormalities, and dementia, particularly emphasizing the IFOF's 
sensitivity. Findings offer insights into brain connectivity and neurological 
health, indicating a need for further contribution to inform interventions aimed 
at cognitive preservation.

Copyright © 2024, Sharma et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.73991
PMCID: PMC11656998
PMID: 39703304

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Ethics Committee of MMIMSR issued approval IEC-2206. Animal subjects: All 
authors have confirmed that this study did not involve animal subjects or 
tissue. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


52. J Biosci. 2025;50:2.

From data to discovery: Neuroinformatics in understanding Alzheimer's disease.

Pahal S(1), Pahal V, Chaudhary A.

Author information:
(1)Bioinformatics Program, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, 
University of Arkansas at Little Rock, Little Rock, AR, USA.

Neuroinformatics, an interdisciplinary field integrating neuroscience and 
informatics, plays a crucial role in understanding the complexities of the brain 
and neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). This review explores 
the applications, databases, and tools used in neuroinformatics, focusing on 
their role in AD research. Neuroinformatics facilitates data integration, 
analysis, and modeling, enabling researchers to unravel the underlying 
mechanisms of AD pathology. Various databases and tools provide access to 
neuroimaging, and genetic and clinical data, facilitating collaborative research 
and the development of diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. Neuroinformatics 
holds promise in advancing our understanding and treatment of AD, offering 
insights into disease progression, biomarker identification, and personalized 
medicine approaches.

PMID: 39703103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Mol Nutr Food Res. 2025 Jan;69(1):e202400670. doi: 10.1002/mnfr.202400670.
Epub  2024 Dec 19.

The Neuroprotective Effect of Rooibos Herbal Tea Against Alzheimer's Disease: A 
Review.

Chipofya E(1)(2), Docrat TF(1), Marnewick JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Applied Microbial and Health Biotechnology Institute, Cape Peninsula 
University of Technology, Cape Town, South Africa.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health Sciences and Wellness 
Sciences, Cape Peninsula University of Technology, Cape Town, South Africa.

The world is experiencing a demographic shift toward an increasing proportion of 
elderly persons. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurological disorders are 
far more likely to develop as people age. AD is a gradual, irreversible, and 
degenerative brain disorder that progressively deteriorates memory and cognitive 
function, eventually leading to death. Treatment for AD is the most significant 
unmet clinical need in neurology. There are no effective treatment options to 
prevent or reverse the degenerative process. The current medical management 
focuses primarily on temporarily easing symptoms, with little or no overall 
improvement. Although genetic predisposition and lifestyle factors influence the 
risk of neurodegenerative disorders, recent research suggests that dietary 
polyphenols with solid antioxidant capacities play crucial roles in determining 
brain health and aging. Aspalathus linearis is used to produce Rooibos, a 
popular South African herbal tea, which may modulate neurodegenerative 
mechanisms such as oxidative stress, tau protein, amyloid plaques, inflammation, 
and metals, all of which have been associated with AD. We reviewed the 
literature to evaluate the potential neuroprotective effects of Rooibos and its 
major flavonoids and to understand the underlying molecular mechanisms.

© 2024 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH 
GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/mnfr.202400670
PMCID: PMC11704843
PMID: 39703045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


54. Luminescence. 2024 Dec;39(12):e70060. doi: 10.1002/bio.70060.

Functionalized Graphene Quantum Dots as an Eco-Friendly Fluorescent Probe for 
Galantamine Analysis: Greenness Evaluation With Application to Pharmacokinetics 
Monitoring.

Alosaimi ME(1), Almalki AH(2)(3), Abduljabbar MH(4), Alnemari RM(5), Alaqel 
SI(6), Serag A(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Sciences, College of Medicine, Princess Nourah bint 
Abdulrahman University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, Taif University, 
Taif, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Addiction and Neuroscience Research Unit, Health Science Campus, Taif 
University, Taif, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Pharmacy, Taif 
University, Taif, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, 
Taif University, Taif, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Northern Border 
University, Rafha, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Pharmaceutical Analytical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al-Azhar 
University, Cairo, Egypt.

In this study, the use of functionalized graphene quantum dots (GQDs) as a 
fluorescent probe has been investigated for the quantitative determination of 
galantamine, a choline esterase inhibitor used for the treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease. The GQDs exhibit a significant quenching in their fluorescence 
intensity upon interaction with galantamine allowing for sensitive and selective 
detection of the drug. This quenching process follows a dynamic pattern with a 
linear relationship between fluorescence intensity and the concentration of 
galantamine. Several factors affecting the quenching process were investigated 
and optimized, including the concentration of GQDs, the pH of the solution, and 
the incubation time. The proposed probe exhibited excellent analytical 
performance with a linear range of 10-500 ng/mL, a limit of detection of 
15 ng/mL, accuracy of 100.78 ± 0.698%, and intraday and interday precision of 
0.742 and 1.369%, respectively. Furthermore, the GQDs-based sensor exhibited 
good selectivity towards galantamine in the presence of potentially interfering 
substances. Another advantage of the GQDs-based sensor is its greenness 
evaluation, as it offers a more environmentally friendly alternative compared to 
traditional methods. In addition, the GQDs-based sensor was successfully applied 
to analyze galantamine in pharmaceutical samples and in vivo samples, 
demonstrating its potential for pharmacokinetics monitoring.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bio.70060
PMID: 39702891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 May;62(5):6041-6058. doi: 10.1007/s12035-024-04662-y.
Epub  2024 Dec 20.

Therapeutic Potential of MCC950 in Restoring Autophagy and Cognitive Function in 
STZ-Induced Rat Model of Alzheimer's Disease.

Naeem A(1), Waseem A(1), Khan MA(2), Robertson AA(3), Raza SS(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Stem Cell & Restorative Neurology, Department of 
Biotechnology, Era's Lucknow Medical College and Hospital, Era University, 
Sarfarazganj, Lucknow, 226003, India.
(2)Era's Lucknow Medical College and Hospital, Era University, Sarfarazganj, 
Lucknow, 226003, India.
(3)School of Chemistry and Molecular Biosciences, The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(4)Laboratory for Stem Cell & Restorative Neurology, Department of 
Biotechnology, Era's Lucknow Medical College and Hospital, Era University, 
Sarfarazganj, Lucknow, 226003, India. drshadab@erauniversity.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is currently the seventh leading cause of death 
worldwide. In this study, we explored the critical role of autophagy in AD 
pathology using a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced AD model in Wistar rats. The 
experimental groups included sham, STZ-induced AD, and STZ + MCC950-treated 
animals. Our findings revealed that administering two doses of STZ (3 mg/kg) 
intracerebroventricular at the interval of 48 h (on days 0 and 2), triggered 
autophagy, as evidenced by elevated levels of autophagy markers such as LC3II, 
ULK1, Beclin1, Ambra1, Cathepsin B, and a reduction in p62 levels. Behavioral 
assessments, including the water maze and novel object recognition tests, 
confirmed cognitive deficits and memory impairment, while the open-field test 
indicated increased anxiety in STZ-induced AD rats. In particular, treating the 
STZ-induced AD group with MCC950 (50 mg/kg) decreased the overexpression of 
autophagy-related proteins, which was consistent with better behavioral outcomes 
and lower anxiety. Overall, this study highlights new insights into AD 
pathophysiology and suggests potential therapeutic avenues.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-024-04662-y
PMID: 39702834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: This study was 
approved by the Experimental Animal Ethical Committee of Era’s Lucknow Medical 
College and Hospital, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India (IAEC/ELMCH/1/23/-2). 
Consent to Participate: Not Applicable. Consent to Publish: Not Applicable. 
Competing Interests: AABR is an inventor of intellectual property (WO2016131098, 
WO2017140778, WO2018215818), granted in multiple jurisdictions, which discloses 
NLRP3 inhibitors for treatment of inflammatory diseases. These patents are 
licensed to Inflazome Ltd., which sold to Roche in 2020, and the compounds 
disclosed are progressing through clinical trials.


56. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2024 Dec 19;16(1):266. doi: 10.1186/s13195-024-01630-5.

Analytical and clinical performance of eight Simoa(®) and Lumipulse(®) assays 
for automated measurement of plasma p-tau181 and p-tau217.

Wojdała AL(1), Vanbrabant J(2), Bayoumy S(3), Antwi-Berko D(3), Bastard NL(4), 
van der Flier WM(5)(6), Jeromin A(7), Lambrechts C(2), Van Loo M(2), Vandijck 
M(4), Stoops E(2), Verberk IMW(3), Teunissen CE(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. a.l.wojdala@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)ADx NeuroSciences NV, Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Fujirebio Europe NV, Ghent, Belgium.
(5)Alzheimer Center, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Amsterdam Public Health, Methodology & Digital Health, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)ALZpath. Inc, Carlsbad, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Among the Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarkers measured in blood, 
phosphorylated forms of tau (p-tau) have been shown to exhibit a particularly 
high diagnostic potential. Here, we performed a comprehensive method comparison 
study, followed by evaluation of the diagnostic performance of eight recent 
plasma p-tau immunoassays targeting different tau phosphorylation sites, 
different tau fragments, and that are measured by two distinct platforms.
METHODS: We enrolled a cohort of 40 patients with AD at the stage of dementia 
(AD-dem) characterized by positive CSF A + T + profile, and a control group of 
40 cognitively healthy participants (Control), to conduct a comprehensive method 
comparison for three plasma p-tau181 and five plasma p-tau217 assays run on the 
Simoa® HD-X™ or Lumipulse® G600II/G1200 platforms. Design of the compared assays 
differed in regard to: (1) tau phosphorylation site targeted by the capture 
antibody (T181 or T217), and (2) epitope of the pan-tau detector antibody 
(N-terminal or mid-region). For each of the assays we determined precision and 
analytical sensitivity parameters and used Passing-Bablok regression and 
Bland-Altman plots for pairwise comparison of p-tau181 or p-tau217 assays. 
Subsequently, we evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of all the assays for 
discrimination between AD-dem and Control groups.
RESULTS: We found a strong, positive correlation between all the measurements. 
Fixed and/or proportional bias was observed for each of compared p-tau181 assay 
pairs or p-tau217 assay pairs. While both plasma p-tau181 and p-tau217 levels 
were significantly increased in AD-dem vs. Control groups as measured by all 
assays, higher median concentration AD-dem/Control fold change and AUC values 
were observed for p-tau217 (assays range: fold change 3.72-6.74, AUC 
0.916-0.956) compared with p-tau181 (assays range 1.81-2.94, AUC 0.829-0.909), 
independently of the platform used. No significant differences were observed 
between diagnostic performance of p-tau181 assays or p-tau217 assays targeting 
tau N-terminus or mid-region.
CONCLUSIONS: Although all plasma p-tau measurements enabled discrimination 
between clinical groups, p-tau217 assays showed the highest robustness, 
independently of the pan-tau detector antibody targeting N-terminal or 
mid-region, and independently of the platform used. Considering the observed 
method disagreement in measured absolute concentrations, we stress the need for 
development of certified reference material, harmonizing measurements across 
different platforms.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-024-01630-5
PMCID: PMC11660642
PMID: 39702308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All participants gave written informed consent to use medical data 
and biomaterial for research purposes. Ethical approval of the Amsterdam UMC 
VUmc medical ethical committee was in place, and the study was performed in 
accordance with the Helsinki Declaration of 1975. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: JV, CL, MVL, and ES are employees of ADx 
NeuroSciences, part of the Fujirebio group. NB and MV are employees of Fujirebio 
Europe. AJ is an employee of ALZpath, Inc and has stock options. CET is employed 
by Amsterdam UMC and she has grants or contracts for Research of the European 
Commission (Marie Curie International Training Network, grant agreement No. 
860197 (MIRIADE), Innovative Medicines Initiatives 3TR (Horizon 2020, grant no 
831434) EPND ( IMI 2 Joint Undertaking (JU), grant No. 101034344) and JPND 
(bPRIDE), National MS Society (Progressive MS alliance), Alzheimer Drug 
Discovery Foundation, Alzheimer Association, Health Holland, the Dutch Research 
Council (ZonMW), including TAP-dementia, a ZonMw funded project 
(#10510032120003) in the context of the Dutch National Dementia Strategy, 
Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation, The Selfridges Group Foundation, Alzheimer 
Netherlands. CET is recipient of ABOARD, which is a public-private partnership 
receiving funding from ZonMW (#73305095007) and Health~Holland, Topsector Life 
Sciences & Health (PPP-allowance; #LSHM20106). CET is also a contract researcher 
for ADx Neurosciences, AC-Immune, Aribio, Axon Neurosciences, Beckman-Coulter, 
BioConnect, Bioorchestra, Brainstorm Therapeutics, Celgene, Cognition 
Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Eisai, Eli Lilly Fujirebio, Grifols, Instant Nano 
Biosensors, Merck, Novo Nordisk, Olink, PeopleBio, Quanterix, Roche, Siemens, 
Toyama, Vivoryon, and the European Commission. CET has received payment or 
honoraria from Roche, Novo Nordisk, and Grifols, where all payments were made to 
her institution. CET also serves on editorial boards of Medidact 
Neurologie/Springer; and in Neurology: Neuroimmunology & Neuroinflammation. She 
is editor of Alzheimer Research and Therapy. Research programs of Wiesje van der 
Flier (WF) have been funded by ZonMW, NWO, EU-JPND, EU-IHI, Alzheimer Nederland, 
Hersenstichting CardioVascular Onderzoek Nederland, Health~Holland, Topsector 
Life Sciences & Health, stichting Dioraphte, Gieskes-Strijbis fonds, stichting 
Equilibrio, Edwin Bouw fonds, Pasman stichting, stichting Alzheimer & 
Neuropsychiatrie Foundation, Philips, Biogen MA Inc, Novartis-NL, Life-MI, AVID, 
Roche BV, Fujifilm, Eisai, Combinostics. WF holds the Pasman chair. WF is 
recipient of ABOARD, which is a public-private partnership receiving funding 
from ZonMW (#73305095007) and Health~Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health 
(PPP-allowance; #LSHM20106). WF is recipient of TAP-dementia 
(www.tap-dementia.nl), receiving funding from ZonMw (#10510032120003). 
TAP-dementia receives co-financing from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Roche, and 
Amprion. All funding is paid to her institution.WF has been an invited speaker 
at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD Neurology (Medscape), NovoNordisk, 
Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council. All funding is paid to her 
institution.WF is consultant to Oxford Health Policy Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA 
Inc, and Eisai. All funding is paid to her institution. WF participated in 
advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc, Roche, and Eli Lilly. WF is member of the 
steering committee of EVOKE/EVOKE+ (NovoNordisk). All funding is paid to her 
institution.WF is member of the steering committee of PAVE, and Think Brain 
Health. WF was associate editor of Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 2020/2021. 
WF is associate editor at Brain. Inge M.W.Verberk received a speaker honorarium 
from Quanterix, which was paid directly to her institution. All the other 
authors have nothing to disclose.


57. Lipids Health Dis. 2024 Dec 19;23(1):410. doi: 10.1186/s12944-024-02398-1.

Effects of Probucol on plasma amyloid-β transport in patients with 
hyperlipidemia: a 12-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

Dang L(#)(1), Wei S(#)(1), Zhao Y(1), Zhou R(1), Shang S(1), Gao F(2), Wang 
J(3), Wang J(4), Qu Q(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Clinical Research Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China.
(3)Huyi Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Xi'an, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China. drwangjin@163.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China. quqiumin@xjtufh.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Although dyslipidemia has been acknowledged as a risk factor for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the effects of lipid-lowering drugs on AD have not 
been determined. The primary pathophysiological hallmark of AD is the deposition 
of amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques in the brain. Plasma Aβ levels are influenced by the 
transport of Aβ from the central nervous system to the peripheral blood. This 
study investigates the effects of Probucol, a lipid-lowering and antioxidant 
drug, on plasma Aβ transport.
METHODS: A total of 120 hyperlipidemic patients with normal cognition were 
randomly assigned (1:1 ratio) to receive either Probucol (1000 mg daily for 
12 weeks) or a placebo. Plasma Aβ, soluble receptor of advanced glycation end 
products (sRAGE), and fasting lipid profiles were measured at baseline and every 
6 weeks.
RESULTS: A total of 108 participants completed the study, with 55 in the 
Probucol group. The cohort consisted of 58 (53.7%) women, with a mean age of 
58.4 ± 8.0 (range, 45-80) years. After 12 weeks of treatment, the changes in 
plasma Aβ42 and sRAGE levels significantly differed between the Probucol and 
placebo groups (ΔAβ42: β = 6.827, P = 0.030; ΔsRAGE: β = 98.668, P = 0.004). 
Furthermore, ΔsRAGE was positively correlated with the change in Aβ42 
(β = 0.018, P = 0.048). When adjusted for ΔsRAGE, the effect of Probucol on 
plasma Aβ42 levels was attenuated (β = 5.065, P = 0.116). In the Probucol group 
only, ΔsRAGE was significantly correlated with oxidized low-density lipoproteins 
(β = 4.27, P = 0.011), total cholesterol (β = 67.50, P = 0.046), and low-density 
lipoproteins (β = - 91.01, P = 0.011).
CONCLUSIONS: Daily oral administration of Probucol (1000 mg) for 12 weeks 
significantly increased plasma Aβ42 levels, likely through modulation of sRAGE. 
This effect may be attributed to the antioxidant and lipid-lowering properties 
of Probucol. These findings suggest that Probucol could potentially serve as a 
protective agent against the pathological processes of AD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study was registered on the Chinese Clinical Trial 
Registry platform in June 2019 (Trial registration number: ChiCTR-1900023542).

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12944-024-02398-1
PMCID: PMC11657980
PMID: 39702132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study complied with the principles of Declaration of Helsinki 
as revised in 1989. The protocol was approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of 
the First Affiliated Hospital of Xi’an Jiaotong University. All participants 
were aware of the research purpose and signed written informed consent forms 
prior to study initiation. Consent for publication: All the participants 
provided written informed consent for the publication of the results of this 
study. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


58. EBioMedicine. 2025 Feb;112:105504. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2024.105504. Epub
2024  Dec 18.

Disentangling relationships between Alzheimer's disease plasma biomarkers and 
established biomarkers in patients of tertiary memory clinics.

Bluma M(1), Chiotis K(2), Bucci M(3), Savitcheva I(4), Matton A(5), Kivipelto 
M(6), Jeromin A(7), De Santis G(8), Di Molfetta G(8), Ashton NJ(9), Blennow 
K(8), Zetterberg H(10), Nordberg A(11).

Author information:
(1)Center of Alzheimer Research, Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of 
Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Care Sciences and Society, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(2)Center of Alzheimer Research, Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of 
Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Care Sciences and Society, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Department of Neurology, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(3)Center of Alzheimer Research, Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of 
Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Care Sciences and Society, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Karolinska University Hospital, Theme Inflammation and Aging, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Turku PET Centre, Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland.
(4)Karolinska University Hospital, Medical Radiation Physics and Nuclear 
Medicine, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Center of Alzheimer Research, Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of 
Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Care Sciences and Society, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Center of Alzheimer Research, Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of 
Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Care Sciences and Society, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(6)Center of Alzheimer Research, Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of 
Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Care Sciences and Society, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Karolinska University Hospital, Theme Inflammation and Aging, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(7)ALZPath, Inc, Carlsbad, CA, USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Molndal, Sweden.
(9)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Molndal, Sweden; King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and 
Neuroscience Maurice Wohl Institute Clinical Neuroscience Institute London, UK; 
NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health and Biomedical Research Unit 
for Dementia at South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation London, UK; Centre for 
Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, Norway.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Molndal, Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden; Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL 
Institute of Neurology, Queen Square, London, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute 
at UCL, London, UK; Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water 
Bay, Hong Kong, China; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University 
of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(11)Center of Alzheimer Research, Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of 
Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Care Sciences and Society, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Karolinska University Hospital, Theme Inflammation and Aging, Stockholm, 
Sweden. Electronic address: agneta.k.nordberg@ki.se.

BACKGROUND: Several plasma biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have 
demonstrated diagnostic and analytical robustness. Yet, contradictory results 
have been obtained regarding their association with standard diagnostic markers 
of AD. This study aims to investigate the specific relationship between the AD 
biomarkers currently used in clinical practice and the plasma biomarkers.
METHODS: In a memory clinic cohort, we analysed plasma pTau181, pTau217, 
pTau231, respectively, GFAP, NfL, CSF pTau181, Aβ-PET scans, and MRI/CT visual 
read of atrophy. We utilized methods based on multiple linear regression to 
evaluate the specific associations between clinically used and recently 
developed plasma biomarkers, while also considering demographic variables such 
as age and sex.
FINDINGS: Although plasma pTau181, pTau217, pTau231, and GFAP were significantly 
associated with both Aβ-PET and CSF pTau181, Aβ-PET explained more variance in 
the levels of these biomarkers. The effect of CSF pTau181 on plasma GFAP and 
pTau181 was completely attenuated by Aβ-PET, whereas pTau231 and pTau217 were 
affected by both Aβ-PET and CSF pTau181 levels. Unlike these biomarkers, 
increased NfL was rather indicative of brain atrophy and older age. Based on the 
effect sizes, plasma pTau217 emerged as highly effective in distinguishing 
between A+ and A-, and T+ and T- individuals, with 60% of variance in plasma 
pTau217 explained by clinical AD biomarkers.
INTERPRETATION: Amyloid burden primarily drives the changes in plasma pTau181, 
pTau217, pTau231, and GFAP. In contrast to plasma pTau217, a significant portion 
of variance in plasma pTau181, pTau231, GFAP, NfL remains unexplained by 
clinical AD biomarkers.
FUNDING: This research is supported by the Swedish Research Council VR: 
2017-06086, 2020-4-3018, 2024-2027; Swedish Brain Foundation, Swedish Alzhzeimer 
Foundation, CIMED Region Stockholm/Karolinska Institutet; the Region Stockholm - 
Karolinska Institutet regional agreement on medical training and clinical 
research (ALF), Fondation Recherche sur Alzheimer (France).

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2024.105504
PMCID: PMC11873569
PMID: 39701863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests Agneta Nordberg has 
received consulting fees from Lundbeck AB, Hoffman La Roche, AVVA 
Pharmaceuticals, has also given lectures in symposia organized by Hoffman La 
Roche; has participated in data safety monitoring or advisory board in Dementia 
Platform UK; has acted as a Deputy chairman in Wenner-Gren Foundation, Sweden. 
Nicholas J. Ashton has served as consultant for Quanterix and has given lectures 
in symposia sponsored by Alamar Biosciences, Biogen, Eli-Lilly, and Quanterix; 
has also been granted a patent application (No.: PCT/US2024/037834 (WSGR Docket 
No. 58484-709.601 (‘Methods for Remote Blood Collection, Extraction and Analysis 
of Neuro Biomarkers’). Henrik Zetterberg has served on scientific advisory 
boards and/or as a consultant for AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, 
Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche; is chair of the Alzheimer's 
Association Global Biomarker Standardization Consortium, and is a co-founder of 
Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU 
Ventures Incubator Program. Kaj Blennow has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for AbbVie, AriBio, ALZpath, BioArctic, AC Immune, 
Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Neurimmune, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, 
Siemens Healthcare, has produced/participated in educational programs with 
Biogen, Eisai, Roche Diagnostics, has participated in advisory boards of Julius 
Clinical and Novartis, is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in 
Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program. 
Konstantinos Chiotis receives consultancy fees from LOGEX. Miia Kivipelto has 
served as a member at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant of 
Combinostics, BioArctic, Eli Lilly, and Nestle; has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Elsai, Novo Nordisk, Nutricia, and Roche, has served in the board 
of Governors of the Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation and as a member of 
World Dementia Council. Andreas Jeromin has been an employee of ALZpath, Inc.


59. Eur J Pharm Sci. 2025 Feb 1;205:106994. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2024.106994. Epub
 2024 Dec 17.

Therapeutic effect of cyclosporine A-loading TPGS micelles on a mouse model of 
LPS-induced neuroinflammation.

Guareschi F(1), Fonseca C(2), Silva S(3), Pescina S(1), Nicoli S(1), Buttini 
F(4), Sonvico F(5), Fortuna A(6).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Drug Delivery Research Laboratory, Department of Food and Drug 
Science, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(2)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Department of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; CIBIT/ICNAS - Coimbra Institute for Biomedical Imaging and 
Translational Research, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; Department of 
Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy and Food 
Science, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Institute of Neurosciences, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Department of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; CIBIT/ICNAS - Coimbra Institute for Biomedical Imaging and 
Translational Research, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)Advanced Drug Delivery Research Laboratory, Department of Food and Drug 
Science, University of Parma, Parma, Italy; University Research Centre for the 
Innovation of Health Products, Biopharmanet-TEC, University of Parma, Parma, 
Italy.
(5)Advanced Drug Delivery Research Laboratory, Department of Food and Drug 
Science, University of Parma, Parma, Italy; University Research Centre for the 
Innovation of Health Products, Biopharmanet-TEC, University of Parma, Parma, 
Italy. Electronic address: fabio.sonvico@unipr.it.
(6)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Department of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; CIBIT/ICNAS - Coimbra Institute for Biomedical Imaging and 
Translational Research, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic 
address: afortuna@ff.uc.pt.

Neuroinflammation is an undoubted hallmark of neurodegenerative processes 
characterized by memory impairment, loss of coordination and muscle strength in 
diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis 
as well as depressive disorders. Cyclosporine A (CSA) has already been 
identified as a promising neuroprotective peptide, due to its well-known 
anti-inflammatory properties. Herein, CSA was encapsulated into α-tocopherol 
polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate (TPGS) micelles and intranasally administered 
to a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced mouse model of neuroinflammation. After 
the treatment, mice were subjected to behavioral tests to assess cognitive and 
motor skills, while the biodistribution of CSA in plasma and olfactory bulb was 
studied by a new HPLC method validated for precision and accuracy. The results 
highlighted that in comparison to the classic oral CSA suspension, the 
intranasal (IN) administration showed significatively better safety and 
efficiency profiles. Notably, IN administration of CSA micelles showed relevant 
antidepressive effects and a certain ability to revert LPS-induced motor 
impairment. This work pointed out that the innovative and noninvasive IN 
administration of TPGS micelles could represent a safe and effective alternative 
to the classic oral route to deliver CSA at the Central Nervous System level, 
where its beneficial activity against neuroinflammation can be exploited.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2024.106994
PMID: 39701548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
report no declaration of interest.


60. Brain Behav Immun. 2025 Mar;125:21-32. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2024.12.022. Epub
2024  Dec 17.

Egln3 expression in microglia enhances the neuroinflammatory responses in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Guan J(1), Wu P(2), Liu M(1), Jiang C(3), Meng X(3), Wu X(1), Lu M(1), Fan Y(1), 
Gan L(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, 246 Xuefu Road, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150081, China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, Division 
of Life Sciences and Medicine, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, Anhui, 230001, China; Anhui Provincial Key Laboratory of Tumor Evolution 
and Intelligent Diagnosis and Treatment, Bengbu Medical University, Bengbu 
233030, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150081, China.
(4)Department of Geriatrics, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, 246 Xuefu Road, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150081, China. Electronic 
address: ganlu@hrbmu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), characterized by cognitive and behavioral 
abnormalities, is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease worldwide. 
Neuroinflammation, which is induced by microglial activation, resulting in the 
expression of a multitude of inflammatory factors, is one of the principal 
characteristics of AD. Herein, we found that Egln3 is differentially expressed 
in microglia in the brains of AD mice. Egln3 is a member of the Egln family of 
proline hydroxylases, which regulates a variety of biological processes, 
including transcription, the cell cycle, and apoptosis, through hydroxylation, 
ubiquitylation, and participation in glycolysis. To further observe the effects 
of Egln3 on cognitive function, we utilized APP/PS1 mice as a pathological model 
of AD to conduct behavioral experiments and assess the expression levels of Aβ 
and inflammatory factors. The specific mechanisms by which Egln3 affects 
microglial activation were analyzed using in vitro experiments and transcriptome 
sequencing. The results of these analyses demonstrated that Egln3 is highly 
expressed in microglia in AD. Inhibition of Egln3 expression in the brains of 
APP/PS1 mice improves neuroinflammatory responses and cognitive function, 
indicating that a high expression of Egln3 promotes AD progression. Furthermore, 
our findings indicate that Egln3 could activate the MAPK pathway, which in turn 
contributes to the aggravation of neuroinflammation. Inhibition of the MAPK 
pathway results in attenuation of the pro-inflammatory state of microglia. 
Consequently, Egln3 may exacerbate neuroinflammation and promote AD progression 
via the MAPK pathway in microglia, making it a promising target for AD-related 
therapies.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2024.12.022
PMID: 39701332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.61. PLoS One. 2024 Dec 19;19(12):e0316010. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0316010. 
eCollection 2024.

Unveiling Cathepsin B inhibition with repurposed drugs for anticancer and 
anti-Alzheimer's drug discovery.

Alrouji M(1), Yasmin S(2), Alshammari MS(3), Alhumaydhi FA(4), Sharaf SE(5), 
Shahwan M(6), Shamsi A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratories, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
Shaqra University, Shaqra, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, King Khalid 
University, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Shaqra University, Shaqra, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Medical Laboratories, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
Qassim University, Buraydah, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Pharmaceutical Sciences Department, College of Pharmacy, Umm Al-Qura 
University, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Center of Medical and Bio-Allied Health Sciences Research (CMBHSR), Ajman 
University, Ajman, United Arab Emirates.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the aggregation of amyloid β (Aβ) 
peptides and the formation of plaques in the brain, primarily derived from the 
proteolytic degradation of amyloid precursor protein (APP). Cathepsin B (CatB) 
is a cysteine protease that plays a pivotal role in this process, making it a 
potential target for the development of anti-Alzheimer's therapies. Apart from 
AD, CatB is implicated in various physiological and pathological processes, 
including cancer. Given the critical role of CatB in these diseases, identifying 
effective inhibitors is of significant therapeutic interest. In this study, we 
employed a systematic virtual screening approach using repurposed molecules from 
the DrugBank database to identify potential CatB inhibitors. Primarily, we 
focused on binding affinities and selectivity to pinpoint potential hits against 
CatB. Two repurposed molecules, Lurasidone and Paliperidone, emerged as 
promising candidates with significant affinity for CatB. These molecules 
demonstrated favorable drug profiles and exhibited preferential binding to the 
catalytic pocket of CatB via interacting with functionally significant residues. 
To further explore the binding mechanism and stability of the CatB-drug 
complexes, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were conducted for 500 ns. The 
results revealed that CatB and Lurasidone, as well as Paliperidone, form stable 
complexes throughout the simulation. Taken together, the findings suggest that 
Lurasidone and Paliperidone can act as repurposed CatB inhibitors with potential 
applications in the development of therapeutics against AD and other 
CatB-associated diseases after further validation.

Copyright: © 2024 Alrouji et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0316010
PMCID: PMC11658610
PMID: 39700174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


62. Inflammopharmacology. 2025 Feb;33(2):573-592. doi:
10.1007/s10787-024-01622-9.  Epub 2024 Dec 19.

Examining the role of antioxidant supplementation in mitigating oxidative stress 
markers in Alzheimer's disease: a comprehensive review.

Jawad M(1), Uthirapathy S(2), Altalbawy FMA(3), Oghenemaro EF(4), Rizaev J(5), 
Lal M(6), Eldesoqui M(7), Sharma N(8), Pramanik A(9), Al-Hamairy AK(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Al-Zahrawi University College, Karbala, Iraq.
(2)Pharmacology Department, Tishk International University, Erbil, Kurdistan 
Region, Iraq. subasini.uthirapathy@tiu.edu.iq.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University College of Duba, University of Tabuk, 
Tabuk, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Microbiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Delta State 
University, PMB 1, Abraka, Delta State, Nigeria.
(5)Department of Public Health and Healthcare Management, Rector, Samarkand 
State Medical University, 18, Amir Temur Street, Samarkand, Uzbekistan.
(6)Department of Medicine, National Institute of Medical Sciences, NIMS 
University Rajasthan, Jaipur, India.
(7)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, AlMaarefa 
University, Diriyah, 13713, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. mamrah@um.edu.sa.
(8)Chandigarh Pharmacy College, Chandigarh Group of Colleges-Jhanjeri, Mohali, 
Punjab, 140307, India.
(9)School of Applied and Life Sciences, Division of Research and Innovation, 
Uttaranchal University, Dehradun, India.
(10)Anesthesia Techniques Department, College of Health and Medical Techniques, 
Al-Mustaqbal University, Babylon, Iraq.

Alzheimer's disease is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder that affects 
millions of people worldwide. One of the key pathological features of 
Alzheimer's disease is oxidative stress, which is characterized by an imbalance 
between the production of reactive oxygen species and the body's ability to 
neutralize them with antioxidants. In recent years, there has been growing 
interest in the potential role of antioxidant supplementation in mitigating 
oxidative stress markers in Alzheimer's disease. This review paper aims to 
provide a comprehensive overview of the current research on antioxidant 
supplementation in Alzheimer's disease and its effects on oxidative stress 
markers. The paper will examine the underlying mechanisms of oxidative stress in 
Alzheimer's disease, the potential benefits of antioxidant supplementation, and 
the challenges and limitations of using antioxidants as a therapeutic strategy.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-024-01622-9
PMID: 39699843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


63. Neurol Ther. 2025 Feb;14(1):319-333. doi: 10.1007/s40120-024-00695-6. Epub
2024  Dec 19.

Incidence and Prevalence of Alzheimer's Disease in Medicare Beneficiaries.

Zhang H(1), Tahami Monfared AA(2)(3), Zhang Q(1), Honig LS(4).

Author information:
(1)Eisai Inc., 200 Metro Blvd, Nutley, NJ, 07110, USA.
(2)Eisai Inc., 200 Metro Blvd, Nutley, NJ, 07110, USA. amir_tahami@eisai.com.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, 2001 
McGill College, McGill University, Suite 1200, Montreal, QC, H3A 1G1, Canada. 
amir_tahami@eisai.com.
(4)Columbia University, 630 W 168Th St (P&S Unit 16), New York, NY, 10032, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The availability of anti-amyloid therapy for mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease and mild Alzheimer's dementia (AD) 
has underscored the need for realistic estimates of the population with AD/MCI 
within the healthcare system to assure adequate preparedness. We hypothesize 
that administrative databases can provide real-world epidemiologic estimates 
reflecting the population with diagnosed (known) MCI and AD. This study was 
conducted to estimate diagnostic incidence and prevalence of AD and all-cause 
MCI among the Medicare fee-for-service (FFS) and Medicare Advantage (MA) 
beneficiaries in the United States.
METHODS: This was a retrospective analysis of Medicare beneficiaries (aged 65 
and older) with identified diagnoses of AD/MCI based on ≥ 2 diagnostic codes 
≥ 30 days apart. Incidence/prevalence estimates were reported per 10,000 
person-years.
RESULTS: In FFS, AD incidence (2008-2018) decreased (138 to 104); MCI incidence 
increased (8 to 47), but the sum (MCI + AD) was relatively stable (146 to 151). 
Prevalence (2008-2017) increased for AD (318 to 354), and MCI (13 to 99). In MA 
(2016) epidemiological estimates were consistent with FFS. In 2017, older age, 
female sex and the Northeastern region were consistently associated with higher 
AD/MCI prevalence among FFS beneficiaries.
CONCLUSION: In FFS, AD/MCI diagnostic prevalence increased over 10 years, 
especially for MCI; prevalence estimates in MA (2016) were comparable. 
Diagnostic prevalence in 2016 (FFS + MA) was 3.4% for AD and 0.85% for MCI. Our 
findings address the reality of Alzheimer's disease in clinical practice in the 
United States that is confronted by healthcare professionals, payors, healthcare 
decision-makers, patients, and caregivers, and may offer a realistic gauge for 
patient triage for treatment, healthcare resource allocation, and 
health-systems' operational prioritization. With the availability of 
anti-amyloid treatments, we anticipate that the population with diagnosed MCI/AD 
within the Medicare database may rise over time; therefore, periodic updates of 
incidence/prevalence estimates may provide support for timely healthcare 
decision-making.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40120-024-00695-6
PMCID: PMC11762046
PMID: 39699743

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: Haixin Zhang 
and Quanwu Zhang are employees of Eisai, Inc. (Nutley, NJ, USA). Amir Abbas 
Tahami Monfared is an employee of Eisai Inc. (Nutley, NJ, USA) and holds the 
position of Adjunct Professor of Epidemiology and Biostatistics at McGill 
University. He also serves as an Associate Editor for the Journal of Alzheimer's 
Disease but does not receive honoraria for this role. Lawrence Honig has 
received funding for consultation from Biogen, Eisai, Genentech/Roche, Medscape, 
and Prevail/Lilly. Additionally, he has received institutional research funding 
from Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Bristol-Myer Squibb, 
Cognition, EIP, Eisai, Genentech/Roche, Janssen/Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly, 
Merck, Transposon, UCB, and Vaccinex. Ethical Approval: This analysis conformed 
to CMS privacy requirements; an approval for the overarching database research 
protocol was obtained through a central IRB. The entire CMS beneficiary 
population over the selected time period was analyzed to assure diversity, 
equity, and inclusion. The study was performed in accordance with the ethical 
standards as laid down in the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki and its later 
amendments or comparable ethical standards. Patient data were deidentified, and 
due to the study's retrospective design, obtaining formal patient consent was 
not required. This study does not involve any new research with human 
participants or animals conducted by the authors.


64. Ann Neurol. 2025 Apr;97(4):753-765. doi: 10.1002/ana.27155. Epub 2024 Dec 19.

The Utility of Long-Read Sequencing in Diagnosing Early Onset Parkinson's 
Disease.

Daida K(1)(2)(3), Yoshino H(4), Malik L(2), Baker B(2), Ishiguro M(3), Genner 
R(2), Paquette K(2), Li Y(3)(5), Nishioka K(6), Masuzugawa S(7), Hirano M(8), 
Takahashi K(9), Kolmogorov M(10), Billingsley KJ(11), Funayama M(3)(4), 
Blauwendraat C(1)(2), Hattori N(3)(4)(12).

Author information:
(1)Integrative Neurogenomics Unit, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National 
Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(2)Center for Alzheimer's and Related Dementias (CARD), National Institute on 
Aging and National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Juntendo University, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(4)Research Institute for Diseases of Old Age, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Diagnosis, Prevention and Treatment of Dementia, Graduate 
School of Medicine, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Department of Neurology, Juntendo Tokyo Koto Geriatric Medical Center, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(7)Masuzugawa Neurology Clinic, Suzuka, Japan.
(8)Department of Neurology, Kindai University Faculty of Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(9)Division of Neurology and Gerontology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
School of Medicine, Iwate Medical University, Morioka, Japan.
(10)Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(11)Molecular Genetics Section, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute 
on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(12)Neurodegenerative Disorders Collaborative Laboratory, RIKEN Center for Brain 
Science, Wako, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Variants in PRKN and PINK1 are the leading cause of early-onset 
autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease, yet many cases remain genetically 
unresolved. We previously identified a 7 megabases complex structural variant in 
a pair of monozygotic twins using Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) long-read 
sequencing. This study aims to determine if ONT long-read sequencing can detect 
a second variant in other unresolved early-onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) 
cases with 1 heterozygous PRKN or PINK1 variant.
METHODS: ONT long-read sequencing was performed on EOPD patients with 1 reported 
PRKN/PINK1 pathogenic variant, with onset age under 50. Positive controls 
included EOPD patients with 2 known PRKN pathogenic variants. Initial testing 
involved short-read targeted panel sequencing for single nucleotide variants and 
multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification for copy number variants.
RESULTS: A total of 47 patients were studied (PRKN "one-variant," n = 23; PINK1 
"one-variant," n = 12; PRKN "two-variants," n = 12). ONT long-read sequencing 
identified a second pathogenic variant in 26% of PRKN "one-variant" patients 
(6/23), but none in PINK1 "one-variant" patients (0/12). Detected variants 
included 1 complex inversion, 2 structural variant overlaps, and 3 duplications. 
In the PRKN "two-variants" group, both variants were identified in all patients 
(100%, 12/12).
INTERPRETATION: ONT long-read sequencing effectively identifies pathogenic 
structural variants in the PRKN locus missed by conventional methods. It should 
be considered for unresolved EOPD cases when a second variant is not detected 
through conventional approaches. ANN NEUROL 2025;97:753-765.

© 2024 The Author(s). Annals of Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of American Neurological Association. This article has been contributed 
to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the 
USA.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.27155
PMCID: PMC11889530
PMID: 39699073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Nothing to report.


65. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jan;21(1):e14401. doi: 10.1002/alz.14401. Epub 2024
Dec  19.

Alzheimer's disease-associated CD83(+) microglia are linked with increased 
immunoglobulin G4 and human cytomegalovirus in the gut, vagal nerve, and brain.

Readhead BP(1), Mastroeni DF(1), Wang Q(1), Sierra MA(2), de Ávila C(1), Jimoh 
TO(3), Haure-Mirande JV(4), Atanasoff KE(3), Nolz J(1), Suazo C(1), Barton 
NJ(5)(6), Orszulak AR(5)(6), Chigas SM(5)(6), Tran K(5)(6), Mirza A(7), Ryon 
K(2), Proszynski J(2), Najjar D(8), Dudley JT(1), Liu STH(9), Gandy S(4), 
Ehrlich ME(4), Alsop E(10), Antone J(10), Reiman R(10), Funk C(11), Best RL(12), 
Jhatro M(12), Kamath K(12), Shon J(12), Kowalik TF(7), Bennett DA(13), Liang 
WS(10), Serrano GE(14), Beach TG(14), Van Keuren-Jensen K(10), Mason CE(2), Chan 
Y(5)(6), Lim ET(5)(15), Tortorella D(3), Reiman EM(16).

Author information:
(1)ASU-Banner Neurodegenerative Disease Research Center, Arizona State 
University, Tempe, Arizona, USA.
(2)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, 
New York, USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Department of Genomics and Computational Biology, University of Massachusetts 
Chan Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Department of Microbiology and Physiological Systems, University of 
Massachusetts Chan Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(8)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, 
New York, USA.
(9)Division of Infectious Diseases, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, New York, USA.
(10)Division of Neurogenomics, The Translational Genomics Research Institute, 
Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(11)Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(12)Serimmune, Inc, Goleta, California, USA.
(13)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.
(14)Civin Laboratory for Neuropathology, Banner Sun Health Research Institute, 
Sun City, Arizona, USA.
(15)Department of Medicine, Division of Innate Immunity, University of 
Massachusetts Chan Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(16)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.

INTRODUCTION: While there may be microbial contributions to Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), findings have been inconclusive. We recently reported an AD-associated 
CD83(+) microglia subtype associated with increased immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) in 
the transverse colon (TC).
METHODS: We used immunohistochemistry (IHC), IgG4 repertoire profiling, and 
brain organoid experiments to explore this association.
RESULTS: CD83(+) microglia in the superior frontal gyrus (SFG) are associated 
with elevated IgG4 and human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) in the TC, anti-HCMV IgG4 in 
cerebrospinal fluid, and both HCMV and IgG4 in the SFG and vagal nerve. This 
association was replicated in an independent AD cohort. HCMV-infected cerebral 
organoids showed accelerated AD pathophysiological features (Aβ42 and pTau-212) 
and neuronal death.
DISCUSSION: Findings indicate complex, cross-tissue interactions between HCMV 
and the adaptive immune response associated with CD83(+) microglia in persons 
with AD. This may indicate an opportunity for antiviral therapy in persons with 
AD and biomarker evidence of HCMV, IgG4, or CD83(+) microglia.
HIGHLIGHTS: Cross-tissue interaction between HCMV and the adaptive immune 
response in a subset of persons with AD. Presence of CD83(+) microglial 
associated with IgG4 and HCMV in the gut. CD83(+) microglia are also associated 
presence of HCMV and IgG4 in the cortex and vagal nerve. Replication of key 
association in an independent cohort of AD subjects. HCMV infection of cerebral 
organoids accelerates the production of AD neuropathological features.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14401
PMCID: PMC11772737
PMID: 39698934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: S.G. has served as a consultant in the past for 
J&J, Diagenic, and Pfizer, and he currently consults for Cognito Therapeutics, 
GLG Group, SVB Securities, Guidepoint, Third Bridge, MEDACORP, Altpep, Vigil 
Neurosciences, and Eisai. Q.W., D.M., E.R., and B.R. are listed as co‐inventors 
on a patent application for an IgG4‐based peripheral biomarker for the detection 
of CD83(+) microglia. The other authors declare no relevant conflicts. Author 
disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


66. Int J Lang Commun Disord. 2025 Jan-Feb;60(1):e13147. doi: 
10.1111/1460-6984.13147.

The Turkish validity and reliability of Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination III.

Parlak MM(1), Bizpınar Munis Ö(2), Köse A(3), Yıldırım C(4), Ülker CA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Speech and Language Therapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ankara 
Yıldırım Beyazıt University, Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Department of Neurology, Etlik City Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Department of Speech and Language Therapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey.
(4)Department of Speech and Language Therapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, İzmir 
Bakırçay University, İzmir, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination III (ACE-III) was developed as a 
screening tool for cognitive disorders. Many countries have proven the cultural 
adaptation, reliability and validity of ACE-III.
AIMS: To make cultural adaptations of ACE-III for the Turkish population and to 
examine its validity and reliability.
METHODS & PROCEDURES: First, ACE-III was translated and adapted into Turkish 
(ACE-III-TR), then its validity and reliability were examined. The study 
included 234 people: 93 with dementia (78 Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 15 
frontotemporal dementia (FTD)), 46 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 95 
healthy. Two blinded speech and language therapists rated the ACE-III-TR 
simultaneously for interrater validity. The same practitioner retested the same 
participants 2 weeks later for test-retest reliability. The construct validity 
of the culturally adapted test was assessed by analysing subsection correlations 
with the ACE-III-TR total score. The association between the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE) total score, relevant subsections and ACE-III-TR total score 
was examined for criterion validity. Intergroup differences for healthy, MCI and 
dementia were studied for ACE-III-TR subsections and total score, and cut-off 
scores were calculated for total score with sensitivity and specificity in 
differential diagnosis.
RESULTS & OUTCOMES: Attention, memory and ACE-III-TR total scores showed a 
statistically significant difference between the three groups of dementia, MCI 
and healthy (p < 0.001). Statistically significant positive correlations ranging 
from 0.571 to 0.929 were found between ACE-III-TR subsections and total scores 
(p < 0.05). A highly significant positive correlation was found between MMSE 
total score and ACE-III-TR total score (r = 0.870). Between the second and first 
measurements, positive, moderately significant correlations were found for all 
subsections and ACE-III-TR total (ICC = 0.508-0.784, r = 0.477-0.646). A high 
level of agreement was found between two raters for all ACE-III-TR subsections 
and the ACE-III-TR total score (alpha = 0.9296-0.99995). The total ACE-III-TR 
cut-off score was 79.5 for healthy and MCI and 69.5 for MCI and mild stage 
dementia.
CONCLUSIONS & IMPLICATIONS: This study found that ACE-III-TR is a sensitive and 
specific screening test for the diagnosis of MCI and dementia that has high 
validity and reliability. ACE-III-TR was found to be a valid and reliable tool 
in dementia, including AD and FTD, and in mild, moderate and advanced dementia. 
By providing a more comprehensive assessment of a person's cognitive profile, it 
can help the clinician make a differential diagnosis of MCI and dementia. 
ACE-III-TR may be useful in monitoring the progression of cognitive deficits in 
clinical practice, research studies and therapy follow-up processes.
WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS: What is already known on the subject ACE was used as a 
screening tool to detect MCI and to differentiate AD from FTD. ACE was revised 
by Hsieh et al. in 2013 and updated as ACE-III, which has the advantages of 
assessing five cognitive domains, not requiring the use of additional materials, 
and providing an effective and sensitive measurement in a short time. However, 
the validity and reliability study of the ACE-III in Turkish has not been 
conducted. What this study adds to the existing knowledge This study 
demonstrates the validity and reliability of the Turkish ACE-III (ACE-III-TR), 
which is a sensitive and specific screening test for the diagnosis of MCI and 
dementia. What are the practical and clinical implications of this work? The 
ACE-III-TR can provide clinicians and patients with a quick and brief general 
cognitive screening, indicating both the patient's overall cognitive profile and 
the measures of each of the assessed domains. By providing a more comprehensive 
assessment of a person's cognitive profile, it can help the clinician make a 
differential diagnosis of MCI and dementia. ACE-III-TR may be useful in 
monitoring the progression of cognitive deficits in clinical practice, research 
studies and therapy follow-up processes.

© 2024 Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.

DOI: 10.1111/1460-6984.13147
PMID: 39698920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Curr Protoc. 2024 Dec;4(12):e70053. doi: 10.1002/cpz1.70053.

A Comprehensive Stereology Method for Quantitative Evaluation of Neuronal 
Injury, Neurodegeneration, and Neurogenesis in Brain Disorders.

Reddy DS(1), Zhu N(1), Challa T(1), Gajjela S(1), Desai H(1), Ramakrishnan S(1), 
Wu X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Experimental Therapeutics, Texas A&M 
University Health Science Center, College of Medicine, Bryan, Texas.

Neuronal injury, neurodegeneration, and neuroanatomical changes are key 
pathological features of various neurological disorders, including epilepsy, 
stroke, traumatic brain injury, Parkinson's disease, autism, and Alzheimer's 
disease. Accurate quantification of neurons and interneurons in different brain 
regions is critical for understanding the progression of neurodegenerative 
disorders in animal models. Traditional scoring methods are often superficial, 
biased, and unreliable for evaluating neuropathology. Stereology, a quantitative 
tool that uses 3-dimensional visualization of cells, provides a robust protocol 
for evaluating neuronal injury and neurodegeneration. This article presents a 
comprehensive and optimized stereology protocol for unbiased quantification of 
neuronal injury, neurodegeneration, and neurogenesis in rat and mouse models. 
This protocol involves precise counting of injured neurons, surviving neurons, 
and interneurons through immunohistochemical processing of brain sections for 
NeuN(+) principal neurons, parvalbumin (PV+) interneurons, doublecortin (DCX+) 
newborn neurons, and Fluoro-Jade B (FJB+)-stained injured cells. Predefined 
hippocampal and amygdala regions were identified and analyzed using a Visiopharm 
stereology software-driven compound microscope. Cell density and absolute cell 
numbers were determined using the optical fractionation method. Our stereology 
protocol accurately estimated 1.5 million total NeuN(+) principal neurons and 
0.05 million PV(+) interneurons in the rat hippocampus, as well as 1.2 million 
total principal neurons and 0.025 million interneurons in the mouse hippocampus. 
FJB(+) counting provided a quantitative index of damaged neurons, and the 
stereology of DCX(+) neurons demonstrated the extent of neurogenesis. Overall, 
this stereology protocol enables precise, accurate, and unbiased counting of 
total neurons in any brain region. This offers a reliable quantitative tool for 
studying neuronal injury and protection in various models of acute brain injury, 
neurotoxicity, and chronic neurological disorders. © 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC. 
Basic Protocol 1: Stereological quantification of principal neurons, 
interneurons, and immature neurons in the hippocampus in rat brain sections 
Basic Protocol 2: Stereological quantification of principal neurons, 
interneurons, and immature neurons in the hippocampus in mouse brain sections 
Basic Protocol 3: Stereological quantification of injured or necrotized cells 
stained with Fluoro-Jade B in the hippocampus and amygdala in rats Basic 
Protocol 4: Stereological quantification of injured or necrotized cells stained 
with Fluoro-Jade B in the hippocampus and amygdala regions in mice Basic 
Protocol 5: Brain fixation and histology processing Basic Protocol 6: 
Immunochemistry of principal neurons, interneurons, and newborn neurons Basic 
Protocol 7: Fluoro-Jade B staining of injured neurons.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cpz1.70053
PMCID: PMC11706765
PMID: 39698918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


68. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2024 Dec;33(12):1303-1309. doi: 10.17219/acem/198674.

Anti-amyloid treatments in Alzheimer's disease: elegance, evidence and ethics.

Daly T(1)(2), Olluri A(3), Kurkinen M(4).

Author information:
(1)UMR 1219 Bordeaux Population Health, University of Bordeaux & INSERM, France.
(2)Bioethics Program, FLACSO Argentina, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)student at Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)NeuroActiva, Inc., San Jose, USA.

The so-called "amyloid cascade hypothesis" provides an elegant explanation of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), has motivated the amyloid-lowering therapeutic 
strategy, and led to the elaboration of a rich experimental and conceptual 
toolkit for the field to progress. But it might be incorrect. The scientific 
evidence base supporting the efficacy and safety of current anti-amyloid 
antibody treatments in AD is weak. Nevertheless, we argue that there is a bias 
towards the amyloid-lowering therapeutic strategy amongst key opinion leaders in 
the research and advocacy communities. To demonstrate this, we first focus on 
the AD lexicon: while any accrual of amyloid on a brain PET scan can now permit 
diagnosis/definition of AD, lowering positron emission tomography (PET) amyloid 
is considered disease modification, and treatment-induced side-effects are 
hidden behind neutral-sounding acronyms: ARIA (amyloid-β (Aβ)-related imaging 
abnormalities: brain bleeding and swelling) and ARPA (amyloid-β (Aβ) 
removal-related pseudo-atrophy: brain shrinkage). Second, we underline that 
drugmakers did not test anti-amyloid antibodies against the best proven 
interventions and did not adequately inform trial participants of risks, thus 
violating research ethics of the Declaration of Helsinki on 2 counts. In 
conclusion, we are critical of over-reliance on the idea that PET 
amyloid-lowering treatments for AD are a therapeutic revolution as claimed, and 
consider that optimism does not excuse a lack of scientific, regulatory, and 
ethical integrity. We argue for rigorous, properly controlled (e.g. donepezil) 
anti-amyloid trials demonstrating cognitive and functional benefit before 
accepting amyloid-lowering drugs as the new standard of care for AD patients.

DOI: 10.17219/acem/198674
PMID: 39698778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2025 Jun;34(6):1025-1037. doi: 10.17219/acem/190273.

Prospective use of miRNAs as biomarkers in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.

Haśko A(1), Potocka N(1), Skrzypa M(1), Bartosik-Psujek H(2), Zawlik I(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Centre for Innovative Research in Medical 
and Natural Sciences, College of Medical Sciences, University of Rzeszów, 
Poland.
(2)Institute of Medical Sciences, College of Medical Sciences, University of 
Rzeszów, Poland.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia in the aging 
population. Pathogenic processes related to the accumulation of amyloid plaques 
(Aβ) and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) begin during the 
asymptomatic stage long before the onset of deterioration in cognitive functions 
and neurodegeneration, which makes rapid diagnosis and treatment difficult. 
Although biochemical diagnostic markers isolated from the body fluids of AD 
patients are currently used, scientists are engaged in research into molecular 
biomarkers that will significantly accelerate the diagnosis long before the 
first clinical symptoms appear. The research presented here focused on microRNAs 
(miRNAs), small, non-coding RNA molecules that are involved in the regulation of 
the post-transcriptional expression of many genes. A review of the literature 
revealed that miRNAs play an important role in regulating the expression of 
genes involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms of AD. Changes in the levels 
of miRNAs in a patient's body fluids can be used for rapid diagnosis. Original 
scientific articles published between 2014 and 2023 describing clinical and 
experimental studies on the role and expression levels of various miRNAs were 
selected from scientific databases such as PubMed, NCBI, Science Direct, and 
Google Scholar. The selected miRNAs were divided into 2 groups based on their 
expression level in AD: those with increased expression and those with decreased 
expression. A review of the latest scientific reports confirms that miRNAs may 
be a promising source of non-invasive and widely available biomarkers. 
Additionally, their modulation may prove to be an effective therapeutic strategy 
in AD.

DOI: 10.17219/acem/190273
PMID: 39698776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Extracell Vesicles Circ Nucl Acids. 2024 Feb 6;5(1):64-82. doi: 
10.20517/evcna.2023.47. eCollection 2024.

Mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles for human diseases.

Zhang X(1)(2), Che X(3)(2), Zhang S(4)(2), Wang R(1), Li M(1), Jin Y(1), Wang 
T(1), Song Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Hospital of China Medical University, Liaoning Cancer Hospital and 
Institute, Cancer Hospital of Dalian University of Technology, Faculty of 
Medicine, Dalian University of Technology, Shenyang 110042, Liaoning, China.
(2)Authors contributed equally.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, The First Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang 110001, Liaoning, China.
(4)The Fourth Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang 110032, Liaoning, 
China.

Stem cell therapy is a novel approach for treating various severe and 
intractable diseases, including autoimmune disorders, organ transplants, tumors, 
and neurodegenerative diseases. Nevertheless, the extensive utilization of stem 
cells is constrained by potential tumorigenicity, challenges in precise 
differentiation, rejection concerns, and ethical considerations. Extracellular 
vesicles possess the ability to carry diverse bioactive factors from stem cells 
and deliver them to specific target cells or tissues. Moreover, they offer the 
advantage of low immunogenicity. Consequently, they have the potential to 
facilitate the therapeutic potential of stem cells, mitigating the risks 
associated with direct stem cell application. Therefore, the use of stem cell 
extracellular vesicles in clinical diseases has received increasing attention. 
This review summarizes advances in the use of extracellular vesicles from 
mesenchymal stem cells (MSC). MSC extracellular vesicles are used in the 
treatment of inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, liver injury, 
COVID-19, and allergies; in the repair of tissue damage in heart disease, kidney 
injury, and osteoarthritic diseases; as a carrier in the treatment of tumors; 
and as a regenerative agent in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's 
and Parkinson's.

© The Author(s) 2024.

DOI: 10.20517/evcna.2023.47
PMCID: PMC11648454
PMID: 39698413

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declared that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


71. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2024 Dec 2;7(12):4069-4082. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.4c00522. eCollection 2024 Dec 13.

Long-Term Treatment with Fluoroethylnormemantine (FENM) Alleviated Memory 
Deficits, Amyloid Pathology, and Microglial Reaction in APP/PS1 Mice.

Freyssin A(1), Carles A(2), Moha B(2), Rubinstenn G(3), Maurice T(2).

Author information:
(1)MMDN, University of Montpellier, EPHE, INSERM, Montpellier and ReST 
Therapeutics, Paris 75006, France.
(2)MMDN, University of Montpellier, EPHE, INSERM, Montpellier, Paris 75006, 
France.
(3)ReST Therapeutics, Montpellier 34095, France.

Fluoroethylnormemantine (FENM, RST-01) shows different pharmacological 
properties from Memantine. The drug is neuroprotective in pharmacological and 
transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), particularly limiting the 
neuroinflammatory response to amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation. In order to define 
early therapeutic intervention aimed at preventing AD and targeting the early 
activation of proinflammatory pathways, we examined the impact of chronic FENM 
treatment starting presymptomatically in APPswe/PSEN1∂E9 (APP/PS1) mice. APP/PS1 
(32 males and 36 females) and wild-type (WT, 23 males and 36 females) mice 
received FENM (0, 1, and 5 mg/kg/day) in the drinking bottle between 3 and 12 
months of age. They were tested once a month for spontaneous alternation and, at 
the end of the treatment, for object recognition, water-maze learning, and 
passive avoidance. Amyloid plaques, astrocytes, and microglia were assessed by 
immunofluorescence, and guanidine-soluble and insoluble Aβ1-40/42 levels were 
determined in the hippocampal formation. Spontaneous alternation performances 
regularly decreased in APP/PS1, but not in WT mice. The FENM treatments (1 and 5 
mg/kg) prevented the deficit. At 12 months of age, APP/PS1 treated with 1 mg/kg 
FENM showed significant improvements in all behavioral procedures tested. The 
astroglial reaction was not significantly attenuated by FENM in the stratum 
radiatum, stratum moleculare, and polymorph layer of the dentate gyrus. The 
microglial reaction was significantly decreased in the two latter areas. In the 
polymorph layer, a significant effect on amyloid plaques was measured. Global 
analyses of amyloid load showed attenuations of soluble and insoluble Aβ1-40 
levels and a significant decrease in the level of insoluble Aβ1-42. Moreover, 
significant negative correlations were observed for FENM impacts on amyloid load 
or microglial activation and the alternation score. FENM confirmed, under a 
chronic presymptomatic treatment, its neuroprotective efficacy in AD. Our data 
particularly suggested that an impact on Aβ and microglia could be related to 
the preservation of cognitive functions.

© 2024 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.4c00522
PMCID: PMC11650732
PMID: 39698294

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing 
financial interest(s): A.F. is employee of ReST Therapeutics and co-inventor of 
the patent FR3128872A1 (2021) / WO2023079187A1. G.R. is co-inventor and owner of 
the patents FR2005138A (2020) / WO2021234324A1 and FR3128872A1 (2021) / 
WO2023079187A1 and founder of ReST Therapeutics. T.M. is co-inventor of the 
patents FR2005138A (2020) / WO2021234324A1 and FR3128872A1 (2021) WO2023079187A1 
(2021). Other authors have no conflict of interest to disclose.


72. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2024 Nov 5;7(12):3671-3690. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.4c00213. eCollection 2024 Dec 13.

Pharmacology, Signaling and Therapeutic Potential of Metabotropic Glutamate 
Receptor 5 Negative Allosteric Modulators.

Kos JA(1), Langiu M(1), Hellyer SD(1), Gregory KJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Drug Discovery Biology, Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Department of Pharmacology, Monash University, Parkville, VIC 3052, Australia.
(2)ARC Centre for Cryo-electron Microscopy of Membrane Proteins, Monash 
University, Parkville, VIC 3052, Australia.

Metabotropic glutamate receptors are a family of eight class C G protein-coupled 
receptors regulating higher order brain functions including cognition and 
motion. Metabotropic glutamate receptors have thus been heavily investigated as 
potential drug targets for treating neurological disorders. Drug discovery 
efforts directed toward metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu5) have 
been particularly fruitful, with a wealth of drug candidates and pharmacological 
tools identified. mGlu5 negative allosteric modulators (NAMs) are promising 
novel therapeutics for developmental, neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative 
disorders (e.g., Alzheimer's Disease, Huntington's Disease, Parkinson's Disease, 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, autism spectrum disorders, substance use 
disorders, stroke, anxiety and depression) and show promise in ameliorating 
adverse effects induced by other medications (e.g., L-dopa induced dyskinesia in 
Parkinson's Disease). However, despite preclinical success, mGlu5 NAMs are yet 
to reach the market due to poor safety and efficacy profiles in clinical trials. 
Herein, we review the physiology and signal transduction of mGlu5. We provide a 
comprehensive critique of therapeutic options with respect to mGlu5 inhibitors, 
spanning from orthosteric antagonists to NAMs. Finally, we address the 
challenges associated with drug development and highlight future directions to 
guide rational drug discovery of safe and effective novel therapeutics.

© 2024 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.4c00213
PMCID: PMC11651194
PMID: 39698283

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


73. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2024 Sep 24;7(12):3645-3657. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.4c00400. eCollection 2024 Dec 13.

Neprilysin-Mediated Amyloid Beta Clearance and Its Therapeutic Implications in 
Neurodegenerative Disorders.

Saxena SK(1)(2), Ansari S(1)(2), Maurya VK(1)(2), Kumar S(1)(2), Sharma D(1), 
Malhotra HS(3), Tiwari S(4), Srivastava C(5), Paweska JT(2)(6), Abdel-Moneim 
AS(7), Nityanand S(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Advanced Research (CFAR), Faculty of Medicine, King George's 
Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow 226003, India.
(2)The World Society for Virology (WSV), Northampton, Massachusetts 01060, 
United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, King George's Medical University, Lucknow 226003, 
India.
(4)F. M. Kirby Neurobiology Center, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, United States.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, King George's Medical University, Lucknow 226003, 
India.
(6)Centre for Emerging Zoonotic and Parasitic Diseases, National Institute for 
Communicable Diseases of the National Health Laboratory Service, Private Bag X4, 
Sandringham, Johannesburg 2131, South Africa.
(7)Department of Microbiology, College of Medicine, Taif University, Al-Taif 
21944 Saudi Arabia.

Neprilysin (NEP) is a neutral endopeptidase, important for the degradation of 
amyloid beta (Aβ) peptides and other neuropeptides, including enkephalins, 
substance P, and bradykinin, in the brain, that influences various physiological 
processes such as blood pressure homeostasis, pain perception, and 
neuroinflammation. NEP breaks down Aβ peptides into smaller fragments, 
preventing the development of detrimental aggregates such as Aβ plaques. NEP 
clears Aβ plaques predominantly by enzymatic breakdown in the extracellular 
space. However, NEP activity may be regulated by a variety of factors, including 
its expression and activity levels as well as interactions with other proteins 
or substances present in the brain. The Aβ de novo synthesis results from the 
amyloidogenic and nonamyloidogenic processing of the amyloid precursor protein 
(APP). In addition to Aβ synthesis, enzymatic degradation and various clearance 
pathways also contribute to the degradation of the monomeric form of Aβ peptides 
in the brain. Higher production, dysfunction of degradation enzymes, defective 
clearance mechanisms, intracellular accumulation of phosphorylated tau proteins, 
and extracellular deposition of Aβ are hallmarks of neurodegenerative diseases. 
Strategies for promoting NEP levels or activity, such as pharmaceutical 
interventions or gene therapy procedures, are being studied as possible 
therapies for neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease. 
Therefore, in this perspective, we discuss the recent developments in 
NEP-mediated amyloidogenic and plausible mechanisms of nonamyloidogenic 
clearance of Aβ. We further highlight the current therapeutic interventions such 
as pharmaceutical agents, gene therapy, monoclonal antibodies, and 
stem-cell-based therapies targeting NEP for the management of neurodegenerative 
disorders.

© 2024 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.4c00400
PMCID: PMC11651204
PMID: 39698259

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


74. JAR Life. 2024 Dec 16;13:126-134. doi: 10.14283/jarlife.2024.19. eCollection 
2024.

Knowledge of Risk Factors for Dementia and Attitudes on a Dementia Prevention 
Program by Age and Ethnicity in Arizona.

Talkad H(1), Chen Y(2), Bress AP(3), Langbaum JB(2), Tariot PN(1)(2), Pruzin 
JJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona College of Medicine - Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(2)Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(3)University of Utah, Salt Lake City Utah.

BACKGROUND: Dementia disproportionately affects Hispanic communities, which may 
be partially attributable to disparities in resources to address modifiable risk 
factors. Addressing risk factors at younger ages would likely confer greater 
benefit than at older ages. Interest among Hispanic and younger persons 
participating in a dementia prevention program is unknown.
OBJECTIVES: To understand knowledge of dementia risk factors and attitudes 
toward prevention program participation among Arizona residents.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Online survey conducted of Arizona residents in either English or 
Spanish between July 13, 2021 and August 2, 2021.
PARTICIPANTS: 1,303 persons age 35 and older; 332 (25.5%) were Hispanic.
MEASUREMENTS: Survey questions about knowledge of dementia risk factors and 
dementia prevention program interest. Comparisons between Hispanic and 
non-Hispanic White and younger and older respondents were made using chi-squared 
tests.
RESULTS: Overall, 30.7% of respondents were aware of any risk factors that 
increased risk for dementia with no differences between Hispanic and 
non-Hispanic White respondents. 76.4% of all respondents were "very" or 
"somewhat" interested in a dementia prevention program, interest was 
significantly higher in Hispanic (83.0% vs 73.3% "very" or "somewhat 
interested," X2 (3, N=1226) = 14.8, p=0.002) and younger respondents (82.2% vs 
72.1% "very" or "somewhat" interested X2 (1, N=1302) = 20.0, p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: General knowledge of risk factors for dementia is low, contrasting 
with high interest in a prevention program. Interest is higher in Hispanic and 
younger persons compared with older or non-Hispanic White persons. A dementia 
prevention program accessible to younger and Hispanic populations could help 
narrow dementia outcome disparities.

© The Author(s) 2024.

DOI: 10.14283/jarlife.2024.19
PMCID: PMC11653765
PMID: 39698060

Conflict of interest statement: Harshita Talkad, Yinghua Chen, and Adam Bress 
declare no conflicts of interest. Jessica Langbaum has received grant support 
from the NIH/NIA; State of Arizona, Arizona Alzheimer’s Consortium; and Eli 
Lilly; and has received consulting fees from Alector, Biogen, and Denovo 
Biopharma. Pierre Tariot has received grant support from the NIA and consulting 
fees from AbbVie, AC Immune, Acadia, Athira, Biogen, BioXcel, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Cognition Therapeutics, Corium, Cortexyme, CuraSen, Eisai, Genentech, 
Immunobrain, Janssen, Lundbeck, MapLight, Merck & Co., Novartis, Novo Nordisk, 
Otsuka & Astex, Roche, Syneos, and T3D Therapeutics. He has received honoraria 
from Arizona Osteopathic Medical Association, Arbor Scientia, Clinical Care 
Operations, Health & Wellness Partners, Indiana University, Merck, Miller 
Medical Communications, River West Meeting Associates, Tucson Osteopathic 
Medical Foundation, and University of Cincinnati. He is a contributor to U.S. 
Patent #11/632, 747, “Biomarkers of Neurodegenerative Disease” and participates 
on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board for AbbVie, AC Immune, 
Acadia, Athira, Corium, Cortexyme, Eisai, Genentech, ImmunoBrain, Merck, Novo 
Nordisk, and Syneos Health. Jeremy Pruzin received support for this manuscript 
from Women Investing in Science and Health and the Banner Health Foundation. He 
has grant support from the NIA as a co-investigator, received honoraria from the 
American Academy of Neurology and consulting fees for an Eisai advisory board.


75. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14425. doi: 10.1002/alz.14425. Epub 2024
Dec  19.

Defining benefit: Clinically and biologically meaningful outcomes in the 
next-generation Alzheimer's disease clinical care pathway.

Elhage A(1), Cohen S(2), Cummings J(3), van der Flier WM(4)(5)(6), Aisen P(7), 
Cho M(1), Bell J(1), Hampel H(1).

Author information:
(1)Eisai Inc., Nutley, New Jersey, USA.
(2)Toronto Memory Program, North York, ON, Canada.
(3)University of Nevada Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
(4)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Epidemiology and Data Science, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, University of Southern 
California, San Diego, California, USA.

To understand the potential benefits of emerging Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
therapies within and beyond clinical trial settings, there is a need to advance 
current outcome measurements into meaningful information relevant to all 
stakeholders. The relationship between the impact on disease biology and 
clinically measurable outcomes in cognition, function, and behavior must be 
considered when defining the meaningful benefit of early AD therapies. In this 
review, we discuss: (1) the lack of consideration for biomarkers in the current 
concept of meaningfulness in AD; (2) the lack of gold standards for determining 
minimal biologically and clinically important differences (MBCIDs) in AD trials; 
(3) how the treatment benefits of disease-modifying treatments are cumulative 
and increase over time; and (4) the different concepts of meaningfulness among 
key stakeholders. This review utilizes the future clinical biological framework 
of AD and aims to further integrate and expand the parameters of meaningful 
benefits toward a precision medicine framework. HIGHLIGHTS: Definition of 
meaningful benefit from Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment varies across disease 
stage and stakeholder perspectives. Observable and meaningful outcomes must 
consider the clinical-biological nature of AD. Statistically significant effects 
or outcomes do not always equate to clinically meaningfulness. Assessment tools 
must reflect stage-specific subtle changes following treatment. Real-world 
evidence will support consensus, definition, and interpretation of clinical 
meaningfulness.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14425
PMCID: PMC11848336
PMID: 39697158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Harald Hampel (H.H.) is an employee of Eisai and 
serves as reviewing editor for the journal Alzheimer's and Dementia. H.H. is 
inventor of 11 patents and has received no royalties for: In Vitro 
Multiparameter Determination Method for the Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Disorders patent no. 8916388; In Vitro Procedure for Diagnosis 
and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Diseases patent no. 8298784; 
Neurodegenerative Markers for Psychiatric Conditions publication no. 
20120196300; In Vitro Multiparameter Determination Method for the Diagnosis and 
Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Disorders publication no. 20100062463; In 
Vitro Method for the Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative 
Disorders publication no. 20100035286; In Vitro Procedure for Diagnosis and 
Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Diseases publication no. 20090263822; In 
Vitro Method for the Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Diseases patent no. 7547553; 
CSF Diagnostic in Vitro Method for Diagnosis of Dementias and Neuroinflammatory 
Diseases publication no. 20080206797; In Vitro Method for the Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases publication no. 20080199966; Neurodegenerative 
Markers for Psychiatric Conditions publication no. 20080131921; and Method for 
Diagnosis of Dementias and Neuroinflammatory Diseases Based on Increased 
Procalcitonin in Cerebrospinal Fluid: US patent no. 10921330. Sharon Cohen 
(S.C.) has performed consulting activities (no personal fees) with the following 
companies: Alnylam, Biogen, Biohaven, Cassava, Cognivue, Cogstate, Eisai, Eli 
Lilly, INmune Bio, Lundbeck, Novo Nordisk, ProMIS Neurosciences, RetiSpec, 
Roche, and SciNeuro; and research grants (paid to institution only): AbbVie, 
AgeneBio, Alector, Alnylam, Alzheon, Anavex, Biogen, Cassava, Eli Lilly, Eisai, 
Janssen, Novo Nordisk, RetiSpec, Roche, and UCB Biopharma. Jeffrey Cummings 
(J.C.) has provided consultation to Acadia, Actinogen, Acumen, AlphaCognition, 
ALZpath, Aprinoia, AriBio, Artery, Biogen, Biohaven, BioVie, BioXcel, 
Bristol‐Myers Squib, Cassava, Cerecin, Diadem, Eisai, GAP Foundation, GemVax, 
Janssen, Jocasta, Karuna, Lighthouse, Lilly, Lundbeck, LSP/eqt, Merck, NervGen, 
New Amsterdam, Novo Nordisk, Oligomerix, Optoceutics, Ono, Otsuka, Oxford Brain 
Diagnostics, Prothena, ReMYND, Roche, Sage Therapeutics, Signant Health, 
Simcere, sinaptica, Suven, TrueBinding, Vaxxinity, and Wren pharmaceutical, 
assessment, and investment companies. J.C. is supported by NIGMS grant 
P20GM109025; NINDS grant U01NS093334; NIA grant R01AG053798; NIA grant 
P30AG072959; NIA grant R35AG71476; NIA R25 AG083721‐01; Alzheimer's Disease Drug 
Discovery Foundation (ADDF); Ted and Maria Quirk Endowment; and Joy 
Chambers‐Grundy Endowment. J.C. owns the copyright of the Neuropsychiatric 
Inventory. J.C. has stocks/options in Artery, Vaxxinity, Behrens, Alzheon, 
MedAvante‐Prophase, and Acumen. The research programs of Wiesje M. van der Flier 
(W.F.) have been funded by ZonMW, NWO, EU‐JPND, Alzheimer Nederland, 
Hersenstichting CardioVascular Onderzoek Nederland, Health∼Holland, Topsector 
Life Sciences & Health, stichting Dioraphte, Gieskes‐Strijbis fonds, stichting 
Equilibrio, Edwin Bouw fonds, Pasman stichting, stichting Alzheimer & 
Neuropsychiatrie Foundation, Philips, Biogen MA Inc, Novartis‐NL, Life‐MI, AVID, 
Roche BV, Fujifilm, Eisai, and Combinostics. W.F. holds the Pasman chair and is 
recipient of ABOARD, a public–private partnership receiving funding from ZonMW 
(#73305095007) and Health∼Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & Health 
(PPP‐allowance; #LSHM20106). All funding is paid to her institution. W.F. has 
been an invited speaker at Biogen MA Inc, Danone, Eisai, WebMD Neurology 
(Medscape), NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, NovoNordisk, and European Brain 
Council; all funding is paid to her institution. W.F. is a consultant to Oxford 
Health Policy Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA Inc, and Eisai; all funding is paid to 
her institution. W.F. participated in advisory boards of Biogen MA Inc, Roche, 
and Eli Lilly; all funding is paid to her institution. W.F. is member of the 
steering committee of PAVE and Think Brain Health. W.F. was associate editor of 
Alzheimer, Research & Therapy in 2020/2021. W.F. is associate editor at Brain. 
Paul Aisen (P.A.) has research grants from National Institutes of Health (NIH), 
the Alzheimer's Association (AA), Janssen, Lilly, and Eisai, and consults with 
Merck, Bristol Myers Squibb, Switch Therapeutics, NewAmsterdam Pharma, Roche, 
Genentech, Abbvie, Biogen, ImmunoBrain Checkpoint, and Arrowhead. Aya Elhage 
(A.E.), Min Cho (M.C.), and Joanne Bell (J.B.) are employees of Eisai Inc. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


76. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2024 Dec;113(11-12):293-296. doi: 
10.23785/PRAXIS.2024.11.002.

[Alzheimer's disease - system prepardeness in the context of new developments].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Meyer R(1)(2), Monsch A(3), Allali G(4), Barro-Belaygues N(1)(5), Becker S(6), 
Bürge M(7), Frisoni GB(8), Georgescu D(1)(2), Gietl A(1), Jung HH(9), 
Lathuiliere A(1)(10)(11), Lindheimer K(12), Lovblad KO(11), Meyer-Heim T(1)(5), 
Popp J(1)(2), Rouaud O(1)(4), Sollberger M(13), Felbecker A(1)(10).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Memory Clinics (SMC).
(2)Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Alterspsychiatrie und -psychotherapie (SGAP).
(3)Schweizerische Vereinigung der Neuropsychologinnen und Neuropsychologen 
(SVNP).
(4)Centre hospitalier universitaire vaudois (CHUV), Lausanne.
(5)Schweizerische Fachgesellschaft für Geriatrie (SFGG).
(6)Alzheimer Schweiz.
(7)Berner Spitalzentrum für Altersmedizin Siloah BESAS.
(8)Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genève.
(9)Memory Clinic, Klinik für Neurologie, Universitätsspital Zürich.
(10)Schweizerische Neurologische Gesellschaft (SNG).
(11)Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genève (HUG).
(12)Spital Affoltern.
(13)Felix Platter Spital, Universitäre Altersmedizin Basel.

The possible authorisation of new monoclonal antibody therapies for Alzheimer's 
disease poses challenges for healthcare systems worldwide. In this paper, the 
Swiss Memory Clinics association (SMC) analyses the available resources and 
identifies potential health care shortages. Overcoming potential bottlenecks is 
a challenge that requires action at various levels. However, our analysis also 
shows that we are well positioned in Switzerland to integrate new developments 
into existing care structures.

Publisher: TITEL: Alzheimer-Krankheit – Systembereitschaft im Kontext neuer 
Entwicklungen.
EINLEITUNG: Eine mögliche Zulassung neuer monoklonaler Antikörpertherapien für 
die Alzheimer-Krankheit stellt die Gesundheitssysteme weltweit vor 
Herausforderungen. In der vorliegenden Arbeit werden durch den Verein Swiss 
Memory Clinics (SMC) eine Analyse der vorhandenen Ressourcen vorgenommen und 
mögliche Versorgungsengpässe identifiziert. Die Bewältigung möglicher 
Kapazitätsengpässe stellt eine Herausforderung dar, die Massnahmen auf 
verschiedenen Ebenen erfordert. Unsere Analyse zeigt aber auch auf, dass wir in 
der Schweiz über gute Voraussetzungen verfügen, neue Entwicklungen in die 
bestehenden Versorgungsstrukturen zu integrieren. Schlüsselwörter: 
Alzheimer-Krankeit, Demenz, Therapie, Versorgung.

Publisher: TITRE: Maladie d’ Alzheimer – préparation du système dans le contexte 
de nouveaux développements.
INTRODUCTION: L’ autorisation éventuelle de nouvelles thérapies à base 
d’ anticorps monoclonaux pour la maladie d’ Alzheimer pose des défis aux 
systèmes de santé du monde entier. Dans le présent travail, l’ association Swiss 
Memory Clinics (SMC) procède à une analyse des ressources disponibles et 
identifie les éventuels points de tension dans leur déploiement. La gestion 
d’ éventuelles limitations en matière de capacités représente un défi qui 
nécessite des mesures à différents niveaux. Notre analyse montre aussi que nous 
disposons en Suisse de bonnes conditions pour intégrer de nouveaux 
développements dans les structures de soins existantes. Mots clés: Maladie 
d’ Alzheimer, démence, thérapie, soins.

© 2024 Aerzteverlag medinfo AG.

DOI: 10.23785/PRAXIS.2024.11.002
PMID: 39697156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Die Autorinnen und Autoren dieser Publikation 
haben alle relevanten Informationen über mögliche Interessenkonflikte 
offengelegt. Sollten Sie weitere Informationen wünschen, wenden Sie sich bitte 
an die Geschäftsstelle unter: info@swissmemoryclinics.ch.


77. J Neuroinflammation. 2024 Dec 18;21(1):322. doi: 10.1186/s12974-024-03306-1.

Impact of noradrenergic inhibition on neuroinflammation and pathophysiology in 
mouse models of Alzheimer's disease.

Evans AK(1), Park HH(1), Woods CE(1), Lam RK(1), Rijsketic DR(1)(2), Xu C(1), 
Chu EK(1), Ciari P(1), Blumenfeld S(1), Vidano LM(1), Saw NL(1), Heifets 
BD(2)(3), Shamloo M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, 1050 
Arastradero Road, Building A, Palo Alto, Stanford, CA, 94304, United States of 
America.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative, and Pain Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, 1050 Arastradero Road, Building A, Palo Alto, 
Stanford, CA, 94304, United States of America.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, 94305, United States of America.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, 1050 
Arastradero Road, Building A, Palo Alto, Stanford, CA, 94304, United States of 
America. mshamloo@stanford.edu.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 Oct 30:rs.3.rs-5328229. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-5328229/v1.

Norepinephrine (NE) modulates cognitive function, arousal, attention, and 
responses to novelty and stress, and it also regulates neuroinflammation. We 
previously demonstrated behavioral and immunomodulatory effects of 
beta-adrenergic pharmacology in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The 
current studies were designed to block noradrenergic signaling in 5XFAD mice 
through (1) chemogenetic inhibition of the locus coeruleus (LC), (2) 
pharmacologic blocking of β-adrenergic receptors, and (3) conditional deletion 
of β1- or β2-adrenergic receptors (adrb1 or adrb2) in microglia.First, 
brain-wide AD pathology was mapped in 3D by imaging immunolabeled, cleared 5XFAD 
brains to assess the overlap between amyloid beta (Aβ) pathology, reactive 
microglia, and the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression in the 
catecholaminergic system. To examine the effects of inhibiting the LC NE system 
in the 5XFAD model, inhibitory (Gi) DREADD receptors were expressed specifically 
in LC NE neurons. LC NE neurons were chronically inhibited through the 
subcutaneous pump administration of the DREADD agonist clozapine-N-oxide (CNO). 
Plasma and brains were collected for assessment of neuroinflammation and 
pathology. A separate cohort of 5XFAD mice was chronically dosed with the 
beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol or vehicle and evaluated for behavior, as 
well as post-mortem neuroinflammation and pathology. Finally, we used 5XFAD mice 
with conditional deletion of either adrb1 or adrb2 in microglia to assess 
neuroinflammation and pathology mediated by β-adrenergic signaling.Using 
iDISCO+, light sheet fluorescence microscopy, and novel analyses, we detected 
widespread microgliosis and Aβ pathology, along with modest TH downregulation in 
fibers across multiple brain regions, in contrast to the spatially limited TH 
downregulation observed in neurons. Both chemogenetic inhibition of LC 
adrenergic signaling and pharmacological inhibition of beta-adrenergic receptors 
potentiated neuroinflammation without altering Aβ pathology. Conditional 
deletion of adrb1 in microglia did not affect neuroinflammation. Conditional 
deletion of adrb2 in microglia attenuated inflammation and pathology in females 
but had no effect in males. Overall, these data support previous observations 
demonstrating the immunomodulatory effects of beta-adrenergic signaling in the 
pathophysiology of brain disorders and suggest that adrenergic receptors on cell 
types other than microglia, such as astrocytes, may mediate some of the 
disease-modifying effects of β-adrenergic agonists in the brain.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-024-03306-1
PMCID: PMC11657531
PMID: 39696597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: MS is a shareholder and founder of CuraSen Therapeutics, a company 
developing adrenergic drugs for the treatment of neurodegenerative disease. AKE 
is a shareholder of CuraSen Therapeutics. However, this work was initiated and 
carried out independently from CuraSen Therapeutics and was not designed, 
initiated, or funded by CuraSen Therapeutics. BDH is on the scientific advisory 
boards of Journey Clinical and Osmind, and is a paid consultant to Arcadia 
Medicine, Inc.


78. J Neuroinflammation. 2024 Dec 18;21(1):325. doi: 10.1186/s12974-024-03321-2.

Tension at the gate: sensing mechanical forces at the blood-brain barrier in 
health and disease.

Hansen CE(#)(1)(2)(3), Hollaus D(#)(1), Kamermans A(1)(2), de Vries HE(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, Amsterdam UMC location 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)MS Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC Location VU Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, Amsterdam UMC location 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1117, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
he.devries@amsterdamumc.nl.
(5)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
he.devries@amsterdamumc.nl.
(6)MS Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC Location VU Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. he.devries@amsterdamumc.nl.
(#)Contributed equally

Microvascular brain endothelial cells tightly limit the entry of blood 
components and peripheral cells into the brain by forming the blood-brain 
barrier (BBB). The BBB is regulated by a cascade of mechanical and chemical 
signals including shear stress and elasticity of the adjacent endothelial 
basement membrane (BM). During physiological aging, but especially in 
neurological diseases including multiple sclerosis (MS), stroke, small vessel 
disease, and Alzheimer's disease (AD), the BBB is exposed to inflammation, 
rigidity changes of the BM, and disturbed cerebral blood flow (CBF). These 
altered forces lead to increased vascular permeability, reduced endothelial 
reactivity to vasoactive mediators, and promote leukocyte transmigration. 
Whereas the molecular players involved in leukocyte infiltration have been 
described in detail, the importance of mechanical signalling throughout this 
process has only recently been recognized. Here, we review relevant features of 
mechanical forces acting on the BBB under healthy and pathological conditions, 
as well as the endothelial mechanosensory elements detecting and responding to 
altered forces. We demonstrate the underlying complexity by focussing on the 
family of transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channels. A better 
understanding of these processes will provide insights into the pathogenesis of 
several neurological disorders and new potential leads for treatment.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-024-03321-2
PMCID: PMC11657007
PMID: 39696463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


79. BMC Med. 2024 Dec 18;22(1):582. doi: 10.1186/s12916-024-03763-8.

The double life of glucose metabolism: brain health, glycemic homeostasis, and 
your patients with type 2 diabetes.

Schwartz SS(1), Herman ME(2), Tun MTH(3), Barone E(4), Butterfield DA(5).

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 771 County Line Road, 
Villanova, PA, 19085, USA.
(2)Social Alchemy: Building Physician Competency Across the Globe, 5 Ave Sur 
#36, Antigua, Sacatepéquez, Guatemala. mariaon4@mail.com.
(3)Maimonides Medical Center, 4802 10th Ave, Brooklyn, NY, 11219, USA.
(4)Sapienza University of Rome, Via Degli Equi 42, Scala A, Int. 5, 00185, Rome, 
Italy.
(5)Sanders-Brown Center On Aging, Department of Chemistry, University of 
Kentucky, 249 Chemistry-Physics Building, Lexington, KY, 40506-0055, USA.

The maintenance of cognitive function is essential for quality of life and 
health outcomes in later years. Cognitive impairment, however, remains an 
undervalued long-term complication of type 2 diabetes by patients and providers 
alike. The burden of sustained hyperglycemia includes not only cognitive 
deficits but also the onset and progression of dementia-related conditions, 
including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent research has shown that the brain 
maintains an independent glucose "microsystem"-evolved to ensure the 
availability of fuel for brain neurons without interruption by transient 
hypoglycemia. When this milieu is perturbed, brain hyperglycemia, brain 
glucotoxicity, and brain insulin resistance can ensue and interfere with insulin 
signaling, a key pathway to cognitive function and neuronal integrity. This 
newly understood brain homeostatic system operates semi-autonomously from the 
systemic glucoregulatory apparatus. Large-scale clinical studies have shown that 
systemic dysglycemia is also strongly associated with poorer cognitive outcomes, 
which can be mitigated through appropriate clinical management of plasma glucose 
levels. Moreover, these studies demonstrated that glucose-lowering agents are 
not equally effective at preventing cognitive dysfunction. Glucagon-like 
peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor analogs and sodium glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors 
(SGLT2is) appear to afford the greatest protection; metformin and dipeptidyl 
peptidase 4 inhibitors (DPP-4is) also significantly improved cognitive outcomes. 
Sulfonylureas (SUs) and exogenous insulin, on the other hand, do not provide the 
same protection and may actually worsen cognitive outcomes. In the creation of a 
treatment plan, comorbid cognitive conditions should be considered. These 
efficacious treatments create a new gold standard of managing hyperglycemia-one 
which is consistent with the "complication-centric prescribing" mandates issued 
in type 2 diabetes treatment guidelines. The increasing longevity enjoyed by our 
populace places the onus on clinical care to play the "long game" in using 
targeted treatments for glucose control in patients with, or at risk for, 
cognitive decline to maintain cognitive wellness later in life. This article 
reviews critical emerging data for scientists and trialists and translates new 
enhancements in patient care for practitioners.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12916-024-03763-8
PMCID: PMC11657227
PMID: 39696300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


80. BMC Neurol. 2024 Dec 19;24(1):481. doi: 10.1186/s12883-024-03978-5.

Exploring the gut-brain axis in alzheimer's disease treatment via probiotics: 
evidence from animal studies-a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Siripaopradit Y(1), Chatsirisakul O(1), Ariyapaisalkul T(1), Sereemaspun A(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Center of Excellence in Nanomedicine, Department of Anatomy, Faculty of 
Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, 1873 Rama 4 Road, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, 
Thailand. amornpun.s@chula.ac.th.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder 
in the elderly, causing cognitive impairment. Its pathogenesis is characterized 
by amyloid beta deposition, neurofibrillary tangles, and neuroinflammation. 
Recent research has identified the link between gut dysbiosis, an imbalance of 
intestinal microorganisms, to this pathogenesis via the gut-brain axis. This 
study aims to review the probiotics' therapeutic effect, targeting the gut-brain 
axis, for AD treatment in animals.
METHODS: The method utilized in this study followed the Preferred Reporting 
Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guideline. Three 
reviewers searched articles through PubMed, Scopus, and Embase using advanced 
search strategy. Articles published between 2010 and 2023 that met the criteria 
were included.
RESULTS: Of 2,273 articles, 21 animal studies measuring the effects of 
probiotics genera Lactobacillus and/or Bifidobacterium on AD via at least one of 
these four outcomes: AD pathology, cognitive function, neuroinflammation, and 
gut microbiota composition. The results demonstrated that probiotics could 
repair gut dysbiosis by decreasing pro-inflammatory bacteria and increasing 
anti-inflammatory bacteria. Repaired dysbiosis was found to be associated with 
less neuroinflammation as significant reductions in neuroinflammatory markers 
related to the pathogenesis of AD such as TNF-α (SMD = -2.08, P = 0.005), IL-6 
(SMD = -2.98, P < 0.0005), and IL-1β (SMD = -2.49, P = 0.003) were observed. 
Reduced amyloid beta deposition (SMD = -1.17, P = 0.009) was reported, but 
reduction in tau hyperphosphorylation was found to be insignificant. For 
cognitive function, positive results were demonstrated for all three aspects of 
cognitive function including long-term memory (SMD = 2.55, P < 0.00001), 
short-term memory (SMD = 1.32, P = 0.003), and spatial recognition (SMD = -1.13, 
P < 0.00001).
CONCLUSIONS: Particular formulas of probiotics showed potential effectiveness in 
AD therapies with demonstrated association with the gut-brain axis. Future 
studies are required to investigate strain-specific results and optimal dosages 
and regimens.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12883-024-03978-5
PMCID: PMC11657461
PMID: 39695988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


81. Mol Neurodegener. 2024 Dec 18;19(1):96. doi: 10.1186/s13024-024-00785-x.

Mystery of gamma wave stimulation in brain disorders.

Deng Q(1), Wu C(1), Parker E(2), Zhu J(3), Liu TC(1), Duan R(4), Yang L(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Education and Sports Science, South China Normal 
University, Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(2)Augusta University, 1120 15th Street, Augusta, GA, 30912, USA.
(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, The Central Hospital of 
Wuhan, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 
Wuhan, 430000, China.
(4)School of Physical Education and Sports Science, South China Normal 
University, Guangzhou, 510006, China. duanrui@m.scnu.edu.cn.
(5)School of Physical Education and Sports Science, South China Normal 
University, Guangzhou, 510006, China. luodanyang@m.scnu.edu.cn.

Neuronal oscillations refer to rhythmic and periodic fluctuations of electrical 
activity in the central nervous system that arise from the cellular properties 
of diverse neuronal populations and their interactions. Specifically, gamma 
oscillations play a crucial role in governing the connectivity between distinct 
brain regions, which are essential in perception, motor control, memory, and 
emotions. In this context, we recapitulate various current stimulation methods 
to induce gamma entrainment. These methods include sensory stimulation, 
optogenetic modulation, photobiomodulation, and transcranial electrical or 
magnetic stimulation. Simultaneously, we explore the association between 
abnormal gamma oscillations and central nervous system disorders such as 
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, stroke, schizophrenia, and autism 
spectrum disorders. Evidence suggests that gamma entrainment-inducing 
stimulation methods offer notable neuroprotection, although somewhat 
controversial. This review comprehensively discusses the functional role of 
gamma oscillations in higher-order brain activities from both physiological and 
pathological perspectives, emphasizing gamma entrainment as a potential 
therapeutic approach for neuropsychiatric disorders. Additionally, we discuss 
future opportunities and challenges in implementing such strategies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-024-00785-x
PMCID: PMC11657232
PMID: 39695746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors have declared that no competing interest exists.


82. Mol Psychiatry. 2025 Feb;30(2):693-704. doi: 10.1038/s41380-024-02756-6. Epub
 2024 Dec 18.

Fast-spiking parvalbumin-positive interneurons: new perspectives of treatment 
and future challenges in dementia.

Zhang X(#)(1)(2)(3), Wu M(#)(2), Cheng L(2), Cao W(2), Liu Z(2), Yang SB(4), Kim 
MS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Affiliated Hospital of Jiujiang University, 
Jiujiang, China.
(2)Jiujiang Clinical Precision Clinical Medicine Research Center, Jiujiang, 
Jiangxi, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Clinical Laboratory Diagnosis and Translational Research of 
Zhejiang Province, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, 
Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(4)Department of Paramedicine, Wonkwang Health Science University, Iksan, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Center for Nitric Oxide Metabolite, Wonkwang University, Iksan, Republic of 
Korea. mskim@wku.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

Central nervous system parvalbumin-positive interneurons (PV-INs) are crucial 
and highly vulnerable to various stressors. They also play a significant role in 
the pathological processes of many neuropsychiatric diseases, especially those 
associated with cognitive impairment, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular 
dementia (VD), Lewy body dementia, and schizophrenia. Although accumulating 
evidence suggests that the loss of PV-INs is associated with memory impairment 
in dementia, the precise molecular mechanisms remain elusive. In this review, we 
delve into the current evidence regarding the physiological properties of PV-INs 
and summarize the latest insights into how their loss contributes to cognitive 
decline in dementia, particularly focusing on AD and VD. Additionally, we 
discuss the influence of PV-INs on brain development, the variations in their 
characteristics across different types of dementia, and how their loss affects 
the etiology and progression of cognitive impairments. Ultimately, our goal is 
to provide a comprehensive overview of PV-INs and to consider their potential as 
novel therapeutic targets in dementia treatment.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41380-024-02756-6
PMID: 39695324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


83. Mol Cell Biochem. 2025 May;480(5):2815-2826. doi: 10.1007/s11010-024-05188-6.
 Epub 2024 Dec 18.

Phosphatase activity-based PPM1K: a key player in the regulation of 
mitochondrial function and its multifaceted impact in diseases.

Mao Y(1), Feng J(2).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Medical University General Hospital, 154 Anshan Road, Heping 
District, Tianjin, 300052, China.
(2)Tianjin Medical University General Hospital, 154 Anshan Road, Heping 
District, Tianjin, 300052, China. TMUGH_FJ@126.com.

PPM1K is a significant metal-dependent phosphatase predominantly located in the 
mitochondrial matrix, where it plays a crucial role in the metabolism of 
branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs). It is implicated in cellular function and 
development across various tissues and is associated with diseases like 
Alzheimer's, cardiomyopathy, and maple syrup urine disease (MSUD). This article 
reviews PPM1K's impact on mitochondrial function and cellular metabolism, as 
well as its role in disease progression. The regulation of PPM1K expression and 
activity by various factors is complex and highlights its therapeutic potential. 
PPM1K's dysfunction can lead to the accumulation of BCAAs and the excessive 
opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (MPTP), disrupting 
physiological metabolism and function. It also regulates the degradation of 
BCAAs by acting as a specific phosphatase for the E1α subunit of the BCKD 
complex. Outside the mitochondria, PPM1K suppresses de novo fatty acid synthesis 
and promotes fatty acid oxidation by dephosphorylating ACL. Furthermore, PPM1K 
has anti-inflammatory effects and modulates immune cell infiltration in tumor 
tissues. The expression and activity of PPM1K are influenced by factors such as 
BCAA concentration, fructose intake, and drug treatments, making it a promising 
target for therapeutic applications and further basic research.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-024-05188-6
PMID: 39695034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Consent to participate: Not applicable. Consent 
to publish: Not applicable. Ethical approval: Not applicable.


84. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2025 May 14;96(6):566-572. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2024-334122.

How well do plasma Alzheimer's disease biomarkers reflect the CSF amyloid 
status?

Hazan J(1), Abel E(2), Rosa Grilo M(3), Alawode D(2), Laranjinha I(2), 
Heslegrave AJ(2), Liu KY(4), Schott JM(5), Howard R(4), Zetterberg H(2)(6), Fox 
NC(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, UCL, London, UK j.hazan@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)UCL, UK Dementia Research Institute, London, UK.
(3)UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London, UK.
(4)UCL Division of Psychiatry, London, UK.
(5)Dementia Research Centre, Institute of Neurology, London, UK.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Sahlgrenska Academy, Goteborg, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Can plasma biomarkers as well as cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) perform 
in the separation of amyloid-beta-positive (Aβ+) vs amyloid-beta-negative (Aβ-) 
groups across an age range seen in an NHS cognitive disorder clinic?
METHODS: As part of the routine diagnostic investigation of 111 clinic patients 
who had contemporaneous blood and CSF samples taken, patients were categorised 
into Aβ+ and Aβ- groups based on their CSF in an Aβ42/40 ratio. We then 
evaluated four single molecule array (Simoa) Quanterix assays, quantifying 
single plasma analytes and ratios (p-tau217, p-tau217/Aβ42 ratio, p-tau181, 
p-tau181/Aβ42 ratio and Aβ42/40 ratio) in their ability to distinguish between 
these groups and the effect of age.
RESULTS: The median (range) age of participants was 66 (55-79) years with 48 
females (43.2%). The areas under the curve (AUC), not accounting for age, for 
the ability to discriminate Aβ+ from Aβ- groups were plasma p-tau217 AUC=0.94, 
Aβ42/40 AUC=0.78 and p-tau181 AUC=0.77. Combining p-tau217/Aβ42 increased the 
AUC to 0.97. The difference between the groups was influenced by age with less 
separation in older individuals: a significant negative interaction term between 
age and group for plasma p-tau217 concentrations (-0.037, p=0.013) and 
p-tau217/Aβ42 ratio (-0.007, p=0.008).
CONCLUSIONS: There was variable performance of plasma biomarkers to recapitulate 
the CSF assay. Both p-tau217 and p-tau217/Aβ42 showed excellent promise as 
surrogates of CSF amyloid status, although with slightly reduced performance in 
older individuals. There was poorer discriminatory ability for p-tau181 and 
Aβ42/40. Further research is needed to address potential age-related confounds.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2024-334122
PMCID: PMC12171523
PMID: 39694821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: HZ has served at scientific 
advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, 
ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito 
Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics and Wave; has 
given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk and Roche; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work). NCF has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Biogen, Eisai, Ionis, Lilly, Roche/Genentech and 
Siemens.


85. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Feb;289:138829. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.138829.  Epub 2024 Dec 16.

Employing spectroscopic, calorimetric and structural bioinformatics approaches 
to decipher the binding mechanism of mangiferin with human transferrin.

Alrouji M(1), Furkan M(2), Alnuaimi GRH(3), Yasmin S(4), Alhumaydhi FA(5), Khan 
RH(6), Shahwan M(7), Anwar S(8), Islam A(9), Shamsi A(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratories, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
Shaqra University, 11961 Shaqra, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
malrouji@su.edu.sa.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India.
(3)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, 
Ajman University, Ajman, United Arab Emirates. Electronic address: 
202211742@ajmanuni.ac.ae.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, King Khalid 
University, Abha 62529, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: sahussain@kku.edu.sa.
(5)Department of Medical Laboratories, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
Qassim University, Buraydah 52571, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
f.alhumaydhi@qu.edu.sa.
(6)Interdisciplinary Biotechnology Unit, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, 
India.
(7)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, 
Ajman University, Ajman, United Arab Emirates; Center for Medical and Bio-Allied 
Health Sciences Research, Ajman University, United Arab Emirates.
(8)Center for Global Health Research, Saveetha medical college, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Chennai, India.
(9)Center for Interdisciplinary Research in Basic Sciences, Jamia Millia 
Islamia, New Delhi, India. Electronic address: aislam@jmi.ac.in.
(10)Center for Medical and Bio-Allied Health Sciences Research, Ajman 
University, United Arab Emirates. Electronic address: anas.shamsi18@gmail.com.

In recent times, neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), such as Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and others, represent a major global health 
challenge with increasing prevalence and significant socio-economic impact. 
These diseases, characterized by progressive neuronal loss, currently lack 
effective therapies. Phytochemicals offer promising therapeutic potential due to 
their diverse bioactive properties. Mangiferin, a glucosylxanthone found in 
mangoes and other plants, has shown significant therapeutic potential in NDs. 
Human transferrin (Tf), an iron-binding protein crucial for iron homeostasis, is 
implicated in ND pathogenesis. This study delineates the interaction between 
Mangiferin and Tf. Molecular docking revealed Mangiferin predominantly interacts 
with Tf's binding site, engaging critical residues. Molecular dynamics 
simulations over 200 ns demonstrated the stability of the Tf-Mangiferin complex 
without major deviations. Fluorescence binding assays confirmed the strong 
binding affinity of Mangiferin to Tf. Additionally, Isothermal titration 
calorimetry (ITC) validated the spontaneous binding of Mangiferin with Tf, 
providing detailed thermodynamic parameters. The findings highlight the 
therapeutic potential of Mangiferin in NDs treatment through its interaction 
with Tf, offering insights into novel mechanisms of action and pathways for 
disease modification.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.138829
PMID: 39694350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


86. Neuroscience. 2025 Feb 6;566:87-96. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.12.027. 
Epub 2024 Dec 16.

Upregulated excitatory amino acid transporter 1 (EAAT1) expression in the human 
medial temporal lobe in Alzheimer's disease.

Wood OWG(1), Yeung JHY(1), Palpagama TH(1), Turner C(2), Waldvogel HJ(1), Faull 
RLM(1), Kwakowsky A(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Brain Research and Department of Anatomy and Medical Imaging, 
Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of Auckland, New Zealand.
(2)Department of Anatomical Pathology, LabPLUS, Auckland City Hospital, New 
Zealand.
(3)Centre for Brain Research and Department of Anatomy and Medical Imaging, 
Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of Auckland, New Zealand; 
Pharmacology and Therapeutics, School of Medicine, Galway Neuroscience Centre, 
University of Galway, Ireland. Electronic address: 
andrea.kwakowsky@universityofgalway.ie.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a growing health problem worldwide, particularly in 
the developed world due to an ageing population. Glutamate excitotoxicity plays 
a major role in the pathophysiology of AD, and glutamate re-uptake is controlled 
by excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs). The EAAT2 isoform is the 
predominant transporter involved in glutamate reuptake, therefore EAAT1 has not 
been the focus of AD research. We investigated the layer-specific expression of 
EAAT1 in human medial temporal lobe regions such as the hippocampus, subiculum, 
entorhinal cortex and superior temporal gyrus, using fluorescent 
immunohistochemistry and laser scanning confocal microscopy in human post-mortem 
tissue. We observed low EAAT1 immunoreactivity in control cases, but upregulated 
labeling in AD across several brain regions of the medial temporal lobe. 
Significantly higher integrated density in AD cases was observed in the str. 
oriens and str. radiatum of the CA2 region, the str. pyramidale of CA3, and the 
str. moleculare and str. granulosum of the DG. Labeling of EAAT1 appeared 
astrocytic in nature, showing close association with astrocytic processes in AD 
cases. We also report that a higher EAAT1 density was positively correlated with 
the age of AD cases, but this relationship was not observed in control cases. 
Overall, our results indicate an upregulation of EAAT1 across several 
hippocampal subregions and layers in AD cases, indicating a potential 
physiological role for this transporter that needs further investigation.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.12.027
PMID: 39694320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


87. Brain Res. 2025 Feb 1;1848:149394. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149394. Epub 
2024 Dec 16.

Potential molecular mechanisms of tobacco smoke exposure in Alzheimer's disease.

Xie Y(1), Yang M(1), Wang H(1), Chen Y(1), Shi X(1), Tang H(2), Sun Q(3).

Author information:
(1)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Environmental Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan 523808, People's Republic of China.
(2)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Environmental Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan 523808, People's Republic of China. 
Electronic address: thw@gdmu.edu.cn.
(3)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Environmental Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan 523808, People's Republic of China. 
Electronic address: gwsunqian@gdmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Smoking is detrimental to health, with tobacco use being a critical 
factor in the development of various neurodegenerative diseases, including 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), which progressively impairs brain function and poses a 
significant threat to public health. This study aims to examine the potential 
genetic alterations induced by smoking that are associated with AD and to 
investigate the underlying regulatory mechanisms. The research will provide 
theoretical foundations for targeted prevention and treatment strategies for AD.
METHODS: This study analyzed datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and 
the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) to identify genes affected by 
tobacco smoke exposure and those altered in patients with AD relative to normal 
controls. We conducted Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and 
Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses using OmicShare tools to screen for key 
pathways. Key genes were identified by constructing protein-protein interaction 
networks (PPI) in the STRING database with the aid of CytoHubba. Additionally, 
the binding activity of the proteins encoded by these key genes to nicotine, the 
main component of tobacco, was analyzed using molecular docking techniques. 
Finally, the analytical results were verified using Quantitative Real-Time 
Polymerase Chain Reaction.
RESULTS: The CTD identified 12,164 CE-related genes affected by tobacco smoke 
exposure. A comparison of these datasets yielded 94 common genes that were both 
influenced by tobacco and differentially expressed across all brain regions. The 
GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses showed that these common differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) were predominantly enriched in the Wnt/β-catenin and 
PI3K-AKT signaling pathways. The DEGs' PPI network, constructed using the STRING 
database, highlighted key genes such as HSP90AB1, SOS2, MAGI1, and YWHAZ. 
Molecular docking studies demonstrated that nicotine binds effectively to the 
protein structures of these key genes, primarily through amino acid residues 
such as Ser and Glu. Experimental validation showed that HSP90AB1 and YWHAZ 
exhibited notable expression discrepancies under varying concentrations of 
cigarette smoke extract (CSE) treatments, particularly demonstrating a 
pronounced down-regulation trend at elevated concentrations.
CONCLUSION: The study indicates that tobacco may impact the function of 
transmembrane transporter proteins and contribute to the development of AD by 
affecting key genes such as HSP90AB1 and YWHAZ, as well as signaling pathways 
like PI3K-AKT.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149394
PMID: 39694170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


88. Bioorg Chem. 2025 Jan;154:108065. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2024.108065. Epub
2024  Dec 14.

Multifunctional porphyrin-substituted phenylalanine-phenylalanine nanoparticles 
for diagnostic and therapeutic applications in Alzheimer's disease.

Xia N(1), Huang Y(2), He C(1), Li Y(1), Yang S(1), Liu L(3).

Author information:
(1)Henan Province Key Laboratory of New Opto-electronic Functional Materials, 
Anyang Normal University, Anyang, Henan 455000, China.
(2)Henan Province Key Laboratory of New Opto-electronic Functional Materials, 
Anyang Normal University, Anyang, Henan 455000, China; School of Pharmacy, Hunan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan 410208, China. Electronic 
address: yalianghuang@hnucm.edu.cn.
(3)Henan Province Key Laboratory of New Opto-electronic Functional Materials, 
Anyang Normal University, Anyang, Henan 455000, China. Electronic address: 
liulin@aynu.edu.cn.

β-Amyloid (Aβ) peptides are believed as the diagnostic biomarkers and 
therapeutic targets of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Their complexes with copper 
ions can catalyze the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) to further 
promote neuronal death. Herein, we suggested that porphyrin-substituted 
phenylalanine-phenylalanine nanoparticles (TPP-FF NPs) could inhibit the 
aggregation of Aβ monomers, disassemble the fibrillar Aβ aggregates under light 
illumination, and depressing the Cu2+-induced generation of ROS. Meanwhile, the 
TPP-FF NPs could be used as the nanocarriers and quenchers of 
fluorescently-labeled probes for the detection of Aβ oligomer (AβO). Inhibition 
of Aβ assembly and dissolution of Aβ aggregates were monitored by Thioflavin T 
(ThT)-based fluorescent assay and characterized by atomic force microscopy. The 
Aβ/Cu2+-induced generation of ROS was limited by TPP-FF NPs. The 
fluorescein-labeled probe aptamers attached on the surface of TPP-FF NPs emitted 
low fluorescence. The interaction between AβO and aptamers induced the release 
of the probes from the surface of TPP-FF NPs, driving the fluorophore far away 
from the quenchers and turning on the fluorescence. The signal-on strategy can 
be used for the detection of AβO with a low detection limit. This work should be 
evaluable for the development of multifunctional candidates for the diagnosis 
and treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2024.108065
PMID: 39693925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


89. Comput Biol Chem. 2025 Apr;115:108302. doi:
10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2024.108302.  Epub 2024 Dec 5.

A knowledge graph approach to drug repurposing for Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and 
Glioma using drug-disease-gene associations.

Selote R(1), Makhijani R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of 
Information Technology, Nagpur, India. Electronic address: rselote@iiitn.ac.in.
(2)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of 
Information Technology, Nagpur, India. Electronic address: 
richa.makhijani@iiitn.ac.in.

Drug Repurposing gives us facility to find the new uses of previously developed 
drugs rather than developing new drugs from start. Particularly during pandemic, 
drug repurposing caught much attention to provide new applications of the 
previously approved drugs. In our research, we provide a novel method for drug 
repurposing based on feature learning process from drug-disease-gene network. In 
our research, we aimed at finding drug candidates which can be repurposed under 
neurodegenerative diseases and glioma. We collected association data between 
drugs, diseases and genes from public resources and primarily examined the data 
related to Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Glioma diseases. We created a Knowledge 
Graph using neo4j by integrating all these datasets and applied scalable feature 
learning algorithm known as node2vec to create node embeddings. These embeddings 
were later used to predict the unknown associations between disease and their 
candidate drugs by finding cosine similarity between disease and drug nodes 
embedding. We obtained a definitive set of candidate drugs for repurposing. 
These results were validated from the literature and CodReS online tool to rank 
the candidate drugs. Additionally, we verified the status of candidate drugs 
from pharmaceutical knowledge databases to confirm their significance.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2024.108302
PMID: 39693851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


90. Comput Biol Med. 2025 Feb;185:109495. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109495. 
Epub 2024 Dec 17.

Developing multifaceted drug synergistic therapeutic strategy against 
neurological disorders.

Irum I(1), Khan F(1), Sufyan M(2), Benish Ali SH(1), Rehman S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences, COMSATS University Islamabad (CUI), Park Road, 
Islamabad, 45550, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Bioinformatics and Biotechnology, Government College University 
Faisalabad, Faisalabad, 38000, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Biosciences, COMSATS University Islamabad (CUI), Park Road, 
Islamabad, 45550, Pakistan. Electronic address: sidrarehman@comsats.edu.pk.

Drug synergism can alter the ultimate biological effects and bioavailability of 
phytoconstituents. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors as symptomatic drugs 
are potent therapeutic regimen for neurodegenerative diseases. In this context, 
this study characterized the synergistic antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and 
anti-AChE effects of the selected phytochemicals including standard drugs 
followed by enzyme kinetics, structure-based ligands screening and molecular 
dynamics simulation study. The synergistic interactions were evaluated through 
Isoradiation and Synergy finder 3.0 methods. The combinations of Quercetin 
(QCT), Folic acid (FA), and Swertiamarin (SWT) with specific reference drugs 
were studied. The combinations of SWT + GA (Gallic acid) and FA + GA at 1:1 
(γ:0.10 & 0.08, respectively) showed the significant synergistic antioxidant 
effect via ABTS assay. Further, in combination, QCT + SWT showed the maximum 
synergistic effect (γ: 0.02-0.13) in anti-inflammatory assay. Moreover, the 
combinations QCT, FA, and SWT with reference drug, Donepezil (DP), illustrated 
potent synergistic activity as anti-AChE in 1:1 proportion (γ: 0.18). The 
interaction pattern of phytochemicals significantly exhibited synergism (γ < 1) 
depicting their optimum activity in combinations compared to individual 
components. Enzyme kinetics evaluation showed the competitive binding of SWT 
with AChE as of donepezil. All the parameters of ADMET study proposed the QCT 
and SWT as acceptable oral drug molecules. Computational docking study revealed 
that QCT and SWT with lowest RMSD (1.096, 2.104) and lowest docking score 
(-9.831, -7.435 kcal/mol) showed maximum binding efficacy. Furthermore, 
molecular simulation study depicted the stability of protein-ligand complexes. 
These findings provide novel insight in the development of dietary treatment 
based on their synergistic effects for neurological disorders as optimum 
alternative therapeutic agents.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109495
PMID: 39693689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


91. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Feb 5;16(3):342-354. doi:
10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00458.  Epub 2024 Dec 18.

Polymeric Nanodiscs Comprising 5-Fluorouracil for Inhibition of Protein 
Aggregation and Their Anti-Alzheimer's Activity in the Drosophila Model.

Rananaware P(1), Naik S(2), Mishra L(2), Keri RS(1), Mishra M(2), Brahmkhatri 
VP(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nano and Material Science, Jain University, Jain Global Campus, 
Bengaluru 562112, Karnataka India.
(2)Neural Developmental Biology Lab, Department of Life Science, NIT Rourkela, 
Rourkela, Odisha 769008, India.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Centre of Excellence in Materials& Sensors, CMR 
Institute of Technology, Bengaluru 560037, India.

Nanoconjugates are promising for therapeutic drug delivery and targeted 
applications due to the numerous opportunities to functionalize their surface. 
The present study reports the synthesis of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-entrapped 
polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) nanoconjugates, precisely 5-FU-PVP and 5-FU-PVP-Au, 
and the evaluation of protein aggregation inhibition efficiency. The 5-FU-loaded 
polymer nanoconjugates were functionalized with gold nanoparticles and analyzed 
using characterization techniques like dynamic light scattering, UV-visible 
spectroscopy, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, and zeta potential 
analysis. These conjugates exhibit consistent morphology with a spherical, flat, 
disc-like structure. The 5-FU-PVP and 5-FU-PVP-Au nanoconjugates exhibited a 
high drug loading, up to 81% and 90%, respectively. The nanoconjugates exhibited 
prolonged drug delivery of 5-FU from 5-FU-PVP and 5-FU-PVP-Au, wherein 
5-FU-PVP-Au depicted a higher drug release. They were investigated for 
inhibiting the protein hen egg white lysozyme (HEWL) aggregation by ThT fibril 
size measurement, binding assay, and electron microscopy, and the results showed 
that conjugates repressed the fibrillogenesis in HEWL. The prominent activity of 
amyloid aggregation inhibition for HEWL using 5-FU-PVP and 5-FU-PVP-Au was found 
to be 29 μg.mL-1 and 27 μg.mL-1, respectively. The dissociation of amyloid 
aggregates was achieved against 5-FU-PVP and 5-FU-PVP-Au at 27 μg.mL-1 and 25 
μg.mL-1, respectively. Furthermore, the nanoconjugates were investigated for 
anti-Alzheimer's activity in the Drosophila model. A Drosophila model of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) was developed that expressed Aβ42 peptides in the 
neuronal secretory system to comprehend the pathogenic effects of Aβ42 in vivo. 
All the results demonstrate that polymer nanoconjugates exhibit more effective 
inhibition of protein aggregation than bare drugs.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.4c00458
PMID: 39693601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Gerontologist. 2024 Dec 17;65(2):gnae189. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnae189.

How Do Researchers Identify and Recruit Dementia Caregivers? A Scoping Review.

Kashyap B(1), Crouse B(1), Fields B(2), Aguirre A(3)(4), Ali T(5), Hays R(6), Li 
X(7), Shapiro LN(6), Tao MH(8)(9), Vaughn IA(8)(9), Hanson LR(1).

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Institute, Bloomington, Minnesota, USA.
(2)Department of Kinesiology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas, 
USA.
(4)Steve Hicks School of Social Work, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, 
Texas, USA.
(5)Department of Community Health, Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(6)Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute, Seattle, Washington, 
USA.
(7)Department of Population Medicine, Harvard Medical School & Harvard Pilgrim 
Health Care Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(8)Henry Ford Health + Michigan State University Health Sciences, Detroit, 
Michigan, USA.
(9)Department of Public Health Sciences, Henry Ford Health, Detroit, Michigan, 
USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Studies involving dementia caregivers are essential 
to transform care and inform new policies. However, identifying and recruiting 
this population for research is an ongoing challenge. This scoping review aimed 
to capture the current methodology for identifying and recruiting dementia 
caregivers in clinical studies. A focus was placed on methods for 
underrepresented populations and pragmatic trials to guide pragmatic and 
equitable clinical studies.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Researchers conducted a literature search using 
PubMed, PsycINFO, EMBASE, and Web of Science databases. Studies conducted in the 
US that enrolled at least 10 caregivers and were published within the last 10 
years (2013-2023) were included.
RESULTS: Overall, 148 articles were included in the review. The most common 
method for identification was community outreach, and paper advertisements for 
recruitment. Caregivers were most often approached in community settings, formal 
organizations, and/or dementia research centers. Most enrolled caregivers were 
female, White, and spouses of persons living with dementia. Race and ethnicity 
were underreported, as were the target recruitment goals. Limited studies were 
self-reported as pragmatic. Additionally, limited studies reported adaptations 
for methods of identification and recruitment in underrepresented populations.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: We identified gaps in current practices for the 
identification and recruitment of dementia caregivers. Future identification and 
recruitment methodologies should be tailored to the intervention's intent, 
health care setting, and the research questions that need to be answered, while 
balancing available resources. Additionally, transparent reporting of 
identification and recruitment procedures, target recruitment goals, and 
comprehensive demographic data is warranted.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnae189
PMCID: PMC11795194
PMID: 39693374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


93. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2024 Dec 24;121(52):e2414176121. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2414176121. Epub 2024 Dec 18.

GSK3β phosphorylation catalyzes the aggregation of tau into Alzheimer's 
disease-like filaments.

Chakraborty P(1), Ibáñez de Opakua A(2), Purslow JA(2), Fromm SA(3), Chatterjee 
D(2), Zachrdla M(2), Zhuang S(2), Puri S(4), Wolozin B(4)(5)(6), Zweckstetter 
M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department for NMR-based Structural Biology, Max Planck Institute for 
Multidisciplinary Sciences, Göttingen 37077, Germany.
(2)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Göttingen 37075, Germany.
(3)European Molecular Biology Laboratory Imaging Centre, European Molecular 
Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg 69117, Germany.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Boston University 
School of Medicine, Boston, MA 02118.
(5)Center for Neurophotonics, Boston University, Boston, MA 02215.
(6)Center for Systems Neuroscience, Boston University, Boston, MA 02215.

The pathological deposition of proteins is a hallmark of several devastating 
neurodegenerative diseases. These pathological deposits comprise aggregates of 
proteins that adopt distinct structures named strains. However, the molecular 
factors responsible for the formation of distinct aggregate strains are unknown. 
Here, we show that the serine/threonine kinase GSK3β catalyzes the aggregation 
of the protein tau into Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like filaments. We demonstrate 
that phosphorylation by GSK3β, but not by several other kinases, promotes the 
aggregation of full-length tau as well as enhances phase separation into 
gel-like condensate structures. Cryoelectron microscopy further reveals that the 
fibrils formed by GSK3β-phosphorylated tau adopt a fold comparable to that of 
paired helical filaments isolated from the brains of AD patients. Our results 
elucidate the intricate relationship between posttranslational modification and 
the formation of tau strains in neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2414176121
PMCID: PMC11670061
PMID: 39693350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:The authors 
declare no competing interest.


94. Bot Stud. 2024 Dec 18;65(1):38. doi: 10.1186/s40529-024-00443-x.

Antioxidant, anti-acetylcholinesterase, and anti-amyloid-β peptide aggregations 
of hispolon and its analogs in vitro and improved learning and memory functions 
in scopolamine-induced ICR mice.

Yang CH(#)(1), Li CW(1), Sie YY(2), Chen LC(#)(3)(4), Yuan YH(1), Hou WC(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Pharmacognosy, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, 110, 
Taiwan.
(2)Clinical Drug Development of Herbal Medicine, College of Pharmacy, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, 110, Taiwan.
(3)School of Medicine, College of Medicine, National Sun Yat-Sen University, 
Kaohsiung, 804, Taiwan.
(4)Traditional Herbal Medicine Research Center, Taipei Medical University 
Hospital, Taipei, 110, Taiwan.
(5)Graduate Institute of Pharmacognosy, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, 110, 
Taiwan. wchou@tmu.edu.tw.
(6)Clinical Drug Development of Herbal Medicine, College of Pharmacy, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, 110, Taiwan. wchou@tmu.edu.tw.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Hispolon, one of bioactive phenolic compounds from a medicinal 
mushroom of sang-huang (Phellinus linteus) has been reported to exhibit 
anticancer and anti-inflammatory activities. The Alzheimer's disease (AD) is 
ranked one of the top ten leading causes of death worldwide. Little is known 
about the effects of hispolon on delaying AD progression.
RESULTS: The hispolon (No.1) and its six structural analogs (No.2 to No.7) were 
assayed by antioxidant, anti-acetylcholinesterase activities and 
anti-amyloid-β1-42-peptide aggregations. The No.1, No.6, and No.7 were selected 
for further molecular docking with acetylcholinesterase and core fragments of 
amyloid-β-peptide, and also showed capacities to recover cell viabilities in 
methylglyoxal-treated SH-SY5Y cells and also to enhance neurite outgrowths in 
PC12 cells. The daily pre-treatments of No.1, No.6, and No.7 for 10-days 
(40 mg/kg/day) showed to improve learning dysfunctions in scopolamine-induced 
ICR mice by passive avoidance tests.
CONCLUSION: The hispolon in the fungus sang-huang might be beneficial to develop 
functional foods or as lead compounds for treating degenerative disorders.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40529-024-00443-x
PMCID: PMC11655744
PMID: 39692936

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The animal experiments were under the approval of the Institutional 
Animal Care and Use Committee of Taipei Medical University (LAC-2017-0360). 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


95. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jan;21(1):e14291. doi: 10.1002/alz.14291. Epub 2024
Dec  18.

Advancements in Immunity and Dementia Research: Highlights from the 2023 AAIC 
Advancements: Immunity Conference.

Kloske CM(1), Mahinrad S(1), Barnum CJ(2), Batista AF(3), Bradshaw EM(4), Butts 
B(5), Carrillo MC(1), Chakrabarty P(6), Chen X(7), Craft S(8), Da Mesquita S(9), 
Dabin LC(10)(11), Devanand D(12), Duran-Laforet V(13), Elyaman W(14)(15), Evans 
EE(16), Fitzgerald-Bocarsly P(17), Foley KE(18), Harms AS(19), Heneka 
MT(20)(21), Hong S(22), Huang YA(23), Jackvony S(24), Lai L(25), Guen 
YL(26)(27), Lemere CA(28)(29), Liddelow SA(30), Martin-Peña A(31), Orr AG(24), 
Quintana FJ(3)(32)(33), Ramey GD(34)(35), Rexach JE(36), Rizzo SJS(37), Sexton 
C(1), Tang AS(35)(38), Torrellas JG(39), Tsai AP(40)(41), van Olst L(42), Walker 
KA(43), Wharton W(44), Tansey MG(45), Wilcock DM(18).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(2)INmune Bio, Inc., Boca Raton, Florida, USA.
(3)Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Carol and Gene Ludwig Center for Research on 
Neurodegeneration, Division of Translational Neurobiology, Columbia University, 
New York, New York, USA.
(5)Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Center for Translational Research in 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Knight 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(8)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(9)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(10)Department of Medical & Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(11)Stark Neuroscience Research Institute, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(12)Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(13)Department of Neurobiology, Brudnick Neuropsychiatric Research Institute, 
University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, Division of Translational Neurobiology, Columbia 
University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(15)The Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(16)Vaccinex, Inc, Rochester, New York, USA.
(17)Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Newark, New Jersey, USA.
(18)Department of Neurology, Stark Neurosciences Research Institute, Indiana 
University, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
Alabama, USA.
(20)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, Belval, 
Luxembourg.
(21)Division of Infectious Diseases and Immunology, University of Massachusetts 
Medical School, North Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(22)UK Dementia Research Institute at University College London, Institute of 
Neurology, London, UK.
(23)Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(24)Appel Alzheimer's Disease Research Institute, Feil Family Brain and Mind 
Research Institute, Neuroscience Graduate Program, Weill Cornell Medicine, New 
York, New York, USA.
(25)University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut, USA.
(26)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, California, USA.
(27)Department of Medicine, Quantitative Sciences Unit, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Palo Alto, California, USA.
(28)Department of Neurology, Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(29)Departments of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(30)Departments of Neuroscience & Physiology and Ophthalmology, Neuroscience 
Institute, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(31)Department of Neuroscience, Center for Translational Research in 
Neurodegenerative Disease, McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(32)Gene Lay Institute for Immunology and Inflammation, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(33)The Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(34)Biological and Medical Informatics PhD Program, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(35)Bakar Computational Health Sciences Institute, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(36)Program in Neurogenetics, Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(37)Aging Institute, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(38)Graduate Program in Bioengineering, University of California, San Francisco 
and University of California, Berkeley, San Francisco, California, USA.
(39)Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative Disease, University 
of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(40)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.
(41)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, California, 
USA.
(42)The Ken & Ruth Davee Department of Neurology, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(43)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging (NIA) 
Intramural Research Program, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(44)School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(45)Department of Neuroscience, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
McKnight Brain Institute, Norman Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases, 
Gainesville, Florida, USA.

The immune system is a key player in the onset and progression of 
neurodegenerative disorders. While brain resident immune cell-mediated 
neuroinflammation and peripheral immune cell (eg, T cell) infiltration into the 
brain have been shown to significantly contribute to Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathology, the nature and extent of immune responses in the brain in the context 
of AD and related dementias (ADRD) remain unclear. Furthermore, the roles of the 
peripheral immune system in driving ADRD pathology remain incompletely 
elucidated. In March of 2023, the Alzheimer's Association convened the 
Alzheimer's Association International Conference (AAIC), Advancements: Immunity, 
to discuss the roles of the immune system in ADRD. A wide range of topics were 
discussed, such as animal models that replicate human pathology, immune-related 
biomarkers and clinical trials, and lessons from other fields describing immune 
responses in neurodegeneration. This manuscript presents highlights from the 
conference and outlines avenues for future research on the roles of immunity in 
neurodegenerative disorders. HIGHLIGHTS: The immune system plays a central role 
in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. The immune system exerts numerous 
effects throughout the brain on amyloid-beta, tau, and other pathways. The 2023 
AAIC, Advancements: Immunity, encouraged discussions and collaborations on 
understanding the role of the immune system.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14291
PMCID: PMC11772715
PMID: 39692624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C. M. Kloske is an employee of the Alzheimer's 
Association. S. Mahinrad is an employee of the Alzheimer's Association. C. J. 
Barnum is an employee of INmune Bio, Inc. A. F. Batista has nothing to disclose. 
E. M. Bradshaw has nothing to disclose. B. Butts has nothing to disclose. M. C. 
Carrillo is an employee of the Alzheimer's Association. P. Chakrabarty has 
nothing to disclose. X. Chen has nothing to disclose. S. Craft has served as a 
Scientific Advisory Board member for T3D Therapeutics, Inc. and for the 
Neurodegeneration Consortium. S. Da Mesquita was listed as an inventor in patent 
applications concerning meningeal lymphatic function in neurological diseases. 
L. C. Dabin has nothing to disclose. D. Devand has nothing to disclose. V. 
Duran‐Laforet has nothing to disclose. W. Elyamn has nothing to disclose. E. E. 
Evans is an employee and stockholder, Vaccinex, Inc. P. Fitzgerald‐Bocarsly has 
nothing to disclose. K. E. Foley has nothing to disclose. A. S. Harms has 
nothing to disclose. M. T. Henea has nothing to disclose. S. Hong has acted as a 
paid consultant to Eisai Ltd, Novo Nordisk, and Alnylam; receives research 
funding from AstraZeneca and Eisai Ltd; and has a collaborative project with 
Ionis Ltd. Y. A. Huang has nothing to disclose. S. Jackvony has nothing to 
disclose. L. Lai has nothing to disclose. Y. Le Guen has nothing to disclose. C. 
Lemere has nothing to disclose. S. A. Liddelow maintains a financial interest in 
AstronauTx Ltd and Synapticure. A. Martín‐Peña has nothing to disclose. A. G. 
Orr has nothing to disclose. F. J. Quintana has nothing to disclose. G. D. Ramey 
has nothing to disclose. J. E. Rexach has nothing to disclose. S. J. S. Rizzo 
has served as a consultant for Hager Biosciences, Genprex, Inc., and Sage 
Therapeutics, and holds shares in Momentum Biosciences. C. Sexton is an employee 
of the Alzheimer's Association. A. S. Tang has nothing to disclose. J. G. 
Torrelas has nothing to disclose. A. P. Tsai has nothing to disclose. L. Van 
Olst has nothing to disclose. K. A. Walker has nothing to disclose. W. Wharton 
has nothing to disclose. M. G. Tansey is a co‐inventor on the DN‐TNF (XPro1595) 
patent and a consultant to INmune Bio. which is developing the biologic for 
neurological indications. M. G. Tansey is a member of the MSAG at the 
Alzheimer's Association. D. M. Wilcock is Editor‐in‐Chief, of Alzheimer's & 
Dementia. Paid services for Novo Nordisk. Travel support from ADPD and 
Alzheimer's Association. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


96. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Feb;21(2):e14436. doi: 10.1002/alz.14436. Epub 2024
Dec  18.

Appropriate use of meaningful within-patient change (MWPC) thresholds in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Lansdall CJ(1), Cummings JL(2), Andrews JS(3).

Author information:
(1)Product Development, Patient-Centered Outcomes Research, F. Hoffmann-La Roche 
Ltd, Basel, Switzerland.
(2)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, University of Nevada, 
Las Vegas (UNLV), Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
(3)Global Evidence & Outcomes, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, USA.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14436
PMCID: PMC11848208
PMID: 39692602

Conflict of interest statement: Claire J. Lansdall (C.J.L.) is an employee of F. 
Hoffmann‐La Roche Ltd and owns stock options in F. Hoffmann‐La Roche Ltd. 
Jeffrey L. Cummings (J.L.C.) has provided consultation to Acadia, Actinogen, 
Acumen, AlphaCognition, ALZpath, Aprinoia, AriBio, Artery, Biogen, Biohaven, 
BioVie, BioXcel, Bristol‐Myers Squibb, Cassava, Cerecin, Diadem, Eisai, Global 
Alzheimer's Platform (GAP) Foundation, GemVax, Janssen, Jocasta, Karuna, 
Lighthouse, Lilly, Lundbeck, EQT Life Sciences (formerly LSP), Mangrove 
Therapeutics, Merck, NervGen, New Amsterdam, Novo Nordisk, Oligomerix, Ono, 
Optoceutics, Otsuka, Oxford Brain Diagnostics, Prothena, reMYND, Roche, Sage 
Therapeutics, Signant Health, Simcere, Sinaptica, Suven, TrueBinding, Vaxxinity, 
and Wren pharmaceutical, assessment, and investment companies. J.L.C. owns the 
copyright of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory. J.L.C. has stocks/options in 
Artery, Vaxxinity, Behrens, Alzheon, MedAvante‐Prophase, and Acumen. J.L.C. has 
received the following grants: National Institute of General Medical Sciences 
(NIGMS) grant P20GM109025; National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 
Stroke (NINDS) grant U01NS093334; National Institute on Aging (NIA) grant 
R01AG053798; NIA grant P30AG072959; NIA grant R35AG71476; NIA R25 AG083721‐01; 
Alzheimer's Disease Drug Discovery Foundation (ADDF); Ted and Maria Quirk 
Endowment; Joy Chambers‐Grundy Endowment. Jeffrey Scott Andrews (J.S.A.) is an 
employee of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited and a minor shareholder of 
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited. Author disclosures are available in the 
Supporting Information.


97. Int J Gen Med. 2024 Dec 13;17:6153-6164. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S485314.
eCollection  2024.

Effectiveness and Safety of Shenxiong Huanglian Detoxification Granule Combined 
with Donepezil for the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease: Study Protocol for a 
Multicenter, Pragmatic, Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial.

Lin J(1), Liu X(1), Lin X(1), Liu N(2), Pei H(2), Zhao Y(3), Yu G(4), Wang W(5), 
Chen C(6), Hou T(7), Li X(8), Lin X(1), Li H(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Encephalopathy, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine: Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine Third 
Clinical Medical College, Guangzhou, 510378, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital of China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing, 100091, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Wuxi Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital 
Affiliated to Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Wuxi, 214045, People's 
Republic of China.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 210029, People's Republic of China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100053, People's Republic of China.
(6)Shanghai Geriatric Institute of Chinese Medicine, Shanghai University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 200031, People's Republic of China.
(7)Department of Neurology, Shandong First Medical University Affiliated 
Provincial Hospital, Jinan, 250021, People's Republic of China.
(8)Centre for Evidence-Based Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Beijing, 100029, People's Republic of China.
(9)Department of Geriatrics, Wangjing Hospital of China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100102, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease is a degenerative condition that causes patients 
to experience progressive memory decline and a significant decline in overall 
cognitive ability at any given moment. The increase in the elderly population 
has resulted in a notable surge in the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease, as has 
the global impact of the disease. Significant clinical efficacy of traditional 
Chinese medicine in combination with Western medicine for the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease has been demonstrated in previous studies. The main purpose 
of this trial is to assess the effectiveness and safety of Shenxiong Huanglian 
Detoxification Granule combined with donepezil in individuals diagnosed with 
mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: This is a multicenter, pragmatic, randomized controlled trial. A total 
of 386 eligible individuals with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease will 
receive random assignment and equal access to the test or control group. The 
effectiveness and safety of Shenxiong Huanglian Detoxification Granule in 
combination with donepezil will be observed. The primary outcome is the 
alteration in scores acquired from the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment 
Scale-Cognitive Subscale. Secondary outcomes include the assessments of the 
Traditional Chinese Medicine Syndrome score scale, Mini-Mental State 
Examination, Clinical Dementia Rating, and Activity of Daily Living scale. We 
will also analyze blood biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease, inflammatory 
indicators, oxidative stress indicators, and hemorheology indicators. In 
addition, safety assessments will be conducted at baseline, after 12 weeks, and 
after 24 weeks of treatment.
DISCUSSION: These findings will offer reliable clinical evidence regarding the 
effectiveness and safety of Shenxiong Huanglian Detoxification Granule in 
combination with donepezil for treating patients with mild-to-moderate 
Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, this study will support the integration of 
traditional Chinese and Western medicine into mainstream treatment for 
Alzheimer's disease, promoting a multitarget strategy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry, Registration Number: 
ChiCTR2300072768. Registered on 25 June 2023. 
https://www.chictr.org.cn/showproj.html?proj=195457.

© 2024 Lin et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJGM.S485314
PMCID: PMC11651136
PMID: 39691835

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


98. Ibrain. 2024 Sep 16;10(4):427-438. doi: 10.1002/ibra.12176. eCollection 2024 
Winter.

Comprehensive review on Alzheimer's disease: From the posttranslational 
modifications of Tau to corresponding treatments.

Li X(1), Ba Z(2), Huang J(3), Chen J(1), Jiang J(4), Huang N(2), Luo Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology The Third Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University (The First People's Hospital of Zunyi) Zunyi China.
(2)National Drug Clinical Trial Institution The Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Zunyi Medical University (The First People's Hospital of Zunyi) Zunyi China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Basic Pharmacology and Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of Education Zunyi Medical University 
Zunyi China.
(4)Department of medicine Guizhou Aerospace Hospital Zunyi China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease, which is mainly 
characterized by the abnormal deposition of β-amyloid peptide (Aβ) and Tau. 
Since Tau aggregation is more closely associated with synaptic loss, 
neurodegeneration, and cognitive decline than Aβ, the correlation between Tau 
and cognitive function in AD has gradually gained attention. The 
posttranslational modifications (PTMs) of Tau are key factors contributing to 
its pathological changes, which include phosphorylation, acetylation, 
ubiquitination, glycosylation, glycation, small ubiquitin-like modifier mediated 
modification (SUMOylation), methylation, succinylation, etc. These modifications 
change the structure of Tau, regulating Tau microtubule interactions, 
localization, degradation, and aggregation, thereby affecting its propensity to 
aggregate and leading to neuronal injury and cognitive impairments. Among 
numerous PTMs, drug development based on phosphorylation, acetylation, 
ubiquitination, and SUMOylation primarily involves enzymatic reactions, 
affecting either the phosphorylation or degradation processes of Tau. Meanwhile, 
methylation, glycosylation, and succinylation are associated with maintaining 
the structural stability of Tau. Current research is more extensive on 
phosphorylation, acetylation, ubiquitination, and methylation, with related 
drugs already developed, particularly focusing on phosphorylation and 
ubiquitination. In contrast, there is less research on SUMOylation, 
glycosylation, and succinylation, requiring further basic research, with the 
potential to become novel drug targets. In conclusion, this review summarized 
the latest research on PTMs of Tau and related drugs, highlighting the potential 
of targeting specific PTMs for developing novel therapeutic strategies in AD.

© 2024 The Author(s). Ibrain published by Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University and Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/ibra.12176
PMCID: PMC11649392
PMID: 39691421

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


99. Front Aging Neurosci. 2024 Dec 3;16:1457982. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1457982.
 eCollection 2024.

Bibliometric analysis of rehabilitation in Alzheimer's disease (2000-2023): 
trends, hotspots and prospects.

Jun P(#)(1), Chengye H(#)(1), Hui W(2).

Author information:
(1)Library and Information Center of Shanghai University Medicine & Health 
Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(2)Medical Management Office of Naval Medical University, Shanghai, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disease that 
leads to insidious deterioration of brain functions and is considered the sixth 
leading cause of death in the world. Multiple studies have shown that 
rehabilitation therapy is becoming an important field of AD research in recent 
years.
OBJECTIVE: We opted for bibliometric analysis to comprehensively summarize the 
advancements in the study of AD rehabilitation treatment, aiming to provide 
researchers with current trends and future research directions.
METHODS: All articles and reviews pertaining to rehabilitation treatment in 
Alzheimer's disease from 2000 to 2023 were downloaded through Web of Science 
Core Collection. The results were subjected to bibliometric analysis using 
Microsoft Excel (2019 version), CiteSpace (6.3 R1 Advanced) and VOSviewer 
1.6.20.
RESULTS: Overall, 1,284 publications were included. The number of publications 
was increasing yearly. The United States has published the most publications. 
University of Toronto has published the most papers of all institutions. 
NEUROPSYCHOLOGICAL REHABILITATION and ARCHIVES OF PHYSICAL MEDICINE AND 
REHABILITATION were the journals with the most studies and the most commonly 
cited, respectively. Clare L is the author with the highest productivity and 
co-citation. After analysis, the most common keywords are mild cognitive 
impairment, cognitive, impairment memory and executive function indicates that 
cognitive impairment is the main focus of research. Transcranial magnetic 
stimulation, cognitive rehabilitation, and physical activity/exercise are the 
hotspots of research at the present stage and are likely to continue.
CONCLUSION: Distinguishing non pharmacological treatments at different stages of 
development is a research hotspot in AD rehabilitation; Sports intervention, 
brain functional imaging techniques represented by brain functional 
connectivity, virtual reality, and quality of life are research directions that 
need attention.

Copyright © 2024 Jun, Chengye and Hui.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1457982
PMCID: PMC11649638
PMID: 39691162

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


100. Front Aging Neurosci. 2024 Dec 3;16:1485657. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2024.1485657.  eCollection 2024.

Neuroimaging techniques, gene therapy, and gut microbiota: frontier advances and 
integrated applications in Alzheimer's Disease research.

Wang H(#)(1)(2), Shi C(#)(3), Jiang L(4), Liu X(5), Tang R(1), Tang M(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medicine, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, Sichuan, 
China.
(2)The School of Clinical Medical Sciences, Southwest Medical University, 
Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(3)Department of Gynaecology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, China.
(4)Department of Anorectal, The Affiliated Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Hospital, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, China.
(5)Emergency and Critical Care Medical Center, Beijing Shijitan Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(6)Department of Pathology, Yaan People's Hospital (Yaan Hospital of West China 
Hospital of Sichuan University), Yaan, Sichuan, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder marked by cognitive 
decline, for which effective treatments remain elusive due to complex 
pathogenesis. Recent advances in neuroimaging, gene therapy, and gut microbiota 
research offer new insights and potential intervention strategies. Neuroimaging 
enables early detection and staging of AD through visualization of biomarkers, 
aiding diagnosis and tracking of disease progression. Gene therapy presents a 
promising approach for modifying AD-related genetic expressions, targeting 
amyloid and tau pathology, and potentially repairing neuronal damage. 
Furthermore, emerging evidence suggests that the gut microbiota influences AD 
pathology through the gut-brain axis, impacting inflammation, immune response, 
and amyloid metabolism. However, each of these technologies faces significant 
challenges, including concerns about safety, efficacy, and ethical 
considerations. This article reviews the applications, advantages, and 
limitations of neuroimaging, gene therapy, and gut microbiota research in AD, 
with a particular focus on their combined potential for early diagnosis, 
mechanistic insights, and therapeutic interventions. We propose an integrated 
approach that leverages these tools to provide a multi-dimensional framework for 
advancing AD diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.

Copyright © 2024 Wang, Shi, Jiang, Liu, Tang and Tang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1485657
PMCID: PMC11649678
PMID: 39691161

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.