1. Life (Basel). 2025 Sep 17;15(9):1461. doi: 10.3390/life15091461.

Chloride Homeostasis in Neuronal Disorders: Bridging Measurement to Therapy.

Arosio D(1), Musio C(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Biofisica, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, 38123 Trento, 
Italy.

Neuronal chloride (Cl-) homeostasis is fundamental for brain function, with 
disruptions increasingly recognized as pathogenic across neurological disorders. 
This review synthesizes evidence from preclinical models and clinical studies, 
integrating electrophysiological measurements, molecular analyses, imaging with 
genetically encoded sensors like ClopHensor, and behavioral assays. Key findings 
demonstrate that Cl- dysregulation follows distinct patterns: (1) in epilepsy, 
KCC2 downregulation converts GABAergic inhibition to excitation, promoting 
seizures; (2) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) models, pre-symptomatic KCC2 loss in 
hippocampus is observed, with KCC2 restoration reversing aspects of cognitive 
decline; (3) in autism spectrum disorders (ASD), developmental delays in GABA 
polarity shifts feature due to altered NKCC1/KCC2 ratios; and (4) in 
Huntington's disease (HD), striatal neuron-specific Cl- imbalances are linked to 
motor dysfunction. Methodologically, advanced tools-including subcellular Cl- 
imaging and high-throughput drug screening-have enabled precise dissection of 
these mechanisms. Therapeutic strategies targeting Cl- transporters (NKCC1 
inhibitors like bumetanide, KCC2 enhancers like CLP290) show preclinical promise 
but require improved central nervous system (CNS) delivery and selectivity. 
These findings establish Cl- homeostasis as both a biomarker and therapeutic 
target, necessitating precision medicine approaches to address heterogeneity in 
neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/life15091461
PMCID: PMC12472110
PMID: 41010403

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


2. Materials (Basel). 2025 Sep 14;18(18):4302. doi: 10.3390/ma18184302.

Functionalized Magnetic Nanoparticles: Can They Revolutionize the Treatment of 
Neurodegenerative Disorders?

Zahariev N(1)(2), Boyuklieva R(1)(2), Penkov D(1), Lukova P(3), Katsarov 
P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology and Biopharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Medical University of Plovdiv, 4002 Plovdiv, Bulgaria.
(2)Research Institute at Medical University of Plovdiv (RIMU), 4002 Plovdiv, 
Bulgaria.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy and Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Medical University of Plovdiv, Vasil Aprilov Str. 15A, 4002 Plovdiv, 
Bulgaria.

Neurodegenerative disorders (NDs), including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's 
disease, pose a significant global health challenge characterized by progressive 
neuronal loss and limited therapeutic options. Early diagnosis remains a 
considerable hurdle due to the absence of reliable biomarkers and the 
restrictive nature of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), which complicates effective 
drug delivery. Magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs), particularly those based on iron 
oxide, have emerged as promising tools for both diagnostic and therapeutic 
applications in NDs, thanks to their superparamagnetism, biocompatibility, and 
customizable surfaces. This review examines various synthesis strategies for 
MNPs, encompassing physical methods (such as lithography, ball milling, and 
laser ablation) and chemical approaches (co-precipitation, thermal 
decomposition, hydrothermal synthesis, sol-gel processes, and polyacrylamide gel 
techniques), while highlighting how these techniques influence particle 
properties. This review also explores recent advancements in surface 
functionalization using polymers and coatings to enhance circulation time in the 
bloodstream and improve BBB penetration for targeted delivery. Furthermore, it 
emphasizes both in vitro and in vivo applications, showcasing MNPs' 
effectiveness in enhancing imaging sensitivity and enabling targeted drug and 
gene delivery. By linking synthesis methods, functionalization techniques, and 
biomedical outcomes, this review illustrates the transformative potential of 
MNPs as next-generation theranostic agents in precision medicine for 
neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ma18184302
PMCID: PMC12471388
PMID: 41010145

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


3. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 22;26(18):9245. doi: 10.3390/ijms26189245.

Pathological Calcium Signaling in Traumatic Brain Injury and Alzheimer's 
Disease: From Acute Neuronal Injury to Chronic Neurodegeneration.

Neuschmid S(1)(2), Schallerer C(1)(2), Ehrlich BE(2), McGuone D(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Health, Technical University of Munich, 81675 Munich, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, 
USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.

Loss of calcium homeostasis, a shared feature of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and 
Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI), activates enzyme-dependent cascades that promote 
protein misfolding, degrade synaptic architecture, impair axonal transport, and 
lead to neuronal death. Epidemiological studies identify TBI as a major risk 
factor for AD, yet the mechanistic basis for this association remains 
incompletely understood. Evidence from human and experimental studies implicate 
calcium dysregulation as a central link, triggering interconnected kinase, 
phosphatase, and protease networks that drive AD hallmark pathology, including 
amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation and tau hyperphosphorylation. The calcium-dependent 
protease calpain is a key node in this network, regulating downstream enzyme 
activity, and cleaving essential scaffolding and signaling proteins. Selective 
vulnerability of the hippocampus and white matter to calcium-mediated damage may 
underlie cognitive deficits common to both conditions. In preclinical TBI and AD 
models, pharmacological inhibition of calcium-dependent enzymes confers 
neuroprotection. Recognizing disrupted calcium signaling as an upstream driver 
of post-traumatic neurodegeneration may enable early interventions to reduce AD 
risk among TBI survivors.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26189245
PMCID: PMC12471116
PMID: 41009808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: B.E.E is a cofounder of Osmol Therapeutics, a 
company that is targeting NCS1 for therapeutic purposes. All other authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


4. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 19;26(18):9178. doi: 10.3390/ijms26189178.

Nanomedicine-Driven Modulation of the Gut-Brain Axis: Innovative Approaches to 
Managing Chronic Inflammation in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Disease.

Krsek A(1), Schleicher LMS(1), Jagodic A(2), Baticic L(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Rijeka, 51000 Rijeka, Croatia.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, Community Health Center Krapina, 49000 
Krapina, Croatia.
(3)Department of Medical Chemistry, Biochemistry and Clinical Chemistry, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Rijeka, 51000 Rijeka, Croatia.

Chronic inflammation plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis and progression of 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's 
disease (PD), where sustained neuroinflammatory responses contribute to neuronal 
damage and functional decline. Recent advances in nanomedicine offer novel 
therapeutic strategies aimed at modulating inflammation, with a focus on 
targeting the gut-brain axis, a key mediator in the interplay between systemic 
inflammation and neurodegeneration. Artificial intelligence (AI) has emerged as 
a transformative tool in this context, facilitating the integration of large, 
complex datasets to better understand the intricate relationship between gut 
microbiota dysbiosis, chronic neuroinflammation, the exposome (cumulative impact 
of lifelong environmental exposures), and disease manifestation. AI-driven 
approaches and integrating exposome data with AI enable deeper insights into 
exposure-microbiome-inflammation interactions, enhance our understanding of the 
inflammatory pathways involved, support the development of predictive models for 
disease progression, and optimize the delivery of nanomedicine-based 
therapeutics. Additionally, AI applications in neuroimaging and personalized 
therapy planning have shown promise in addressing both motor and non-motor 
symptoms. This review provides a comprehensive synthesis of current knowledge, 
highlighting the convergence of AI, nanomedicine, and chronic inflammation in 
neurodegenerative disease care.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26189178
PMCID: PMC12470747
PMID: 41009744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


5. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 18;26(18):9109. doi: 10.3390/ijms26189109.

Exploring Molecular and Clinical Dimensions of Glaucoma as a Neurodegenerative 
Disease.

Durán-Cristiano SC(1)(2), Duque-Chica GL(3), Torres-Osorio V(4), Ospina-Villa 
JD(5), Martin-Gil A(6), Fernandez GJ(7), Carracedo G(6).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación en Ciencias Básicas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad 
CES, Medellín 050010, Antioquia, Colombia.
(2)Clinica Oftalmologica de Antioquia, CLOFAN, Medellín 050021, Antioquia, 
Colombia.
(3)Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Aplicadas, Institución Universitaria ITM, 
Medellín 050034, Antioquia, Colombia.
(4)Ingennova Research Group, Facultad de Ingenieria, Universidad CES, Medellín 
050021, Antioquia, Colombia.
(5)Instituto Colombiano de Medicina Tropical, Universidad CES, Medellín 050021, 
Antioquia, Colombia.
(6)Ocupharm Research Group, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 28037 Madrid, 
Spain.
(7)Grupo Biologia y Control de Enfermedades Infecciosas, Universidad de 
Antioquia, Medellin 050010, Antioquia, Colombia.

Glaucoma is traditionally defined as an ocular disease characterized by 
progressive retinal ganglion cell degeneration, in some cases with elevated 
intraocular pressure (IOP), and optic nerve damage. However, growing evidence 
indicates that glaucoma shares critical features with neurodegenerative 
disorders, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. This study aimed to 
explore the systemic nature of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) by integrating 
visual function, cognitive performance, and transcriptomic profiling. We 
conducted a multidimensional assessment of POAG patients and age-matched 
controls, accounting for demographic factors. Structural parameters included 
retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness, measured using optical coherence 
tomography (OCT), and visual field indices mean deviation (MD) and pattern 
standard deviation (PSD). Cognitive function was evaluated across multiple 
domains, encompassing visual memory, executive function, processing speed, and 
verbal fluency. Additionally, transcriptomic analysis was performed from 
conjunctival samples to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 
enriched pathways. POAG patients exhibited significant RNFL thinning, which 
correlated with both visual field loss and cognitive impairments, particularly 
in terms of visual memory and executive function. Transcriptomic profiling 
revealed a distinct gene expression signature in POAG, including upregulation of 
TTBK1 and CCN2 (CTGF), genes associated with tau phosphorylation and 
extracellular matrix remodeling. Functional enrichment analysis indicated the 
involvement of neurodegenerative pathways, such as glutamate signaling, calcium 
signaling, and cell adhesion. Our findings support the reclassification of 
glaucoma as a neurodegenerative disease with both ocular and cognitive 
manifestations. Furthermore, biomarkers such as TTBK1 and CCN2 may serve as 
potential targets for early detection and neuroprotective therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26189109
PMCID: PMC12471210
PMID: 41009668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


6. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 18;26(18):9099. doi: 10.3390/ijms26189099.

ACE-Dependent Alzheimer's Disease: Circulating ACE Phenotypes in Heterozygous 
Carriers of Rare ACE Variants.

Mironenko IV(1), Kryukova OV(2), Buianova AA(3), Churov AV(1), Arbatsky MS(1), 
Kubrikova AA(1), Petrusenko YS(4), Repinskaia ZA(3), Shmitko AO(3), Ilyina 
GA(3), Kost OA(2), Dudek SM(5), Strazhesko ID(1), Isaev RI(1), Mkhitaryan EA(1), 
Tkacheva ON(1), Rebrikov DV(6), Danilov SM(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute on Aging Research, Russian Clinical Research Center of Gerontology, 
Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University, Ministry of Healthcare of 
the Russian Federation, 129226 Moscow, Russia.
(2)Chemistry Faculty, M.V. Lomonosov Moscow State University, 119991 Moscow, 
Russia.
(3)Genomics Laboratory, Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University, 
117513 Moscow, Russia.
(4)Biotech Campus LLC, 117437 Moscow, Russia.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, University of 
Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612, USA.
(6)Center for Precision Genome Editing and Genetic Technologies for Biomedicine, 
Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University, 117513 Moscow, Russia.

Damaging mutations of the Angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) that result in 
low ACE levels may increase the risk of developing late-onset Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). We quantified blood ACE levels in EDTA-plasma from 147 subjects 
with 23 different heterozygous ACE mutations (and 70 controls) and estimated the 
effect of these mutations on ACE phenotype, using a set of monoclonal antibodies 
(mAbs) to ACE and two ACE substrates. We identified several mutations in both 
ACE domains (including the most frequent ACE mutation, Y215C), which led to 
decreased ACE levels in the blood, and thus could be considered as putative risk 
factors for late-onset AD. The precipitation of several ACE mutants (Q259R, 
A725P, C734Y) by specific mAbs changed significantly, and therefore, these mAbs 
could be markers of these mutations. Analysis of 50 of the most frequent ACE 
mutations demonstrates that more than 1.5% of the adult population may have 
mutations which lead to decreased ACE levels, and thus, the role of low ACE 
levels in the development of AD may be underappreciated. Intriguingly, 
statistical and cluster analyses of longevity patients revealed trends towards 
higher frequency of cognitive impairment among affected individuals with 
damaging ACE mutations. Systematic analysis of blood ACE levels in patients with 
various ACE mutations identifies individuals with low blood ACE levels who may 
be at increased risk for late-onset AD. Patients with transport-deficient ACE 
mutations theoretically could benefit from therapeutic treatment with a 
combination of chemical and pharmacological chaperones and proteasome 
inhibitors, as was demonstrated previously on a cell model of the 
transport-deficient ACE mutation Q1069R. Moreover, clinical association analysis 
suggests a trend linking damaging ACE mutations with increased risk of cognitive 
impairment.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26189099
PMCID: PMC12471119
PMID: 41009662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Yunna S. Petrusenko was employed by the 
company Biotech Campus LLC. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


7. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 18;26(18):9097. doi: 10.3390/ijms26189097.

Exploring Gastrodin Against Aging-Related Genes in Alzheimer's Disease by 
Integrated Bioinformatics Analysis and Machine Learning.

Zhou L(1), Chen X(1), Liang S(1), Yan J(1), Sun L(2), Li Y(1), Chen X(3), Sun 
Z(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing 102488, China.
(2)Longnan Agricultural Science Research Institute, Longnan 746000, China.
(3)Chinese Academy of Forestry, Beijing 100091, China.

Gastrodin is the main active ingredient of Gastrodia elata Blume, known for its 
prominent neuroprotective effects, especially in Alzheimer's disease. Meanwhile, 
aging is a critical risk factor in age-related diseases, including AD. Now, the 
underlying mechanisms of gastrodin against aging-related genes in Alzheimer's 
disease remain unclear. Our study aimed to identify and validate the molecular 
mechanisms of gastrodin on aging-related genes in Alzheimer's disease. Firstly, 
we analyzed gene expression datasets from GEO in NCBI, and weighted gene 
co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to identify the intersected 
genes with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and aging genes. Gene Ontology 
(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) functional enrichment 
analyses and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network were performed to analyze 
and evaluate the intersected genes to screen key genes. Subsequently, we used 
machine learning techniques to screen hub genes and subcellular localization to 
confirm the reliability of the hub genes. Finally, molecular docking and 
molecular dynamics simulation were combined to explore the binding interactions 
between core targets and gastrodin. We identified 29 intersecting genes among 
DEGs of AD, key module genes of AD, and aging genes. Next, nine common hub genes 
were identified by four algorithms of the cytoHubba plug-in. Four hub genes, 
GFAP, NPY, SNAP25, and SST, were found as possibly hub aging-related genes in 
Alzheimer's disease from machine algorithms by adopting the random forest, 
LASSO, SVM, and Boruta models. Among them, GFAP showed marked upregulation, 
while NPY, SNAP25, and SST exhibited significant downregulation (p < 0.05). 
Finally, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation exhibited that 
gastrodin has an excellent affinity in docking with SNAP25. This study 
demonstrates that SNAP25 can be considered a key aging-related gene in AD, and 
gastrodin could treat AD by targeting specific genes and signaling pathways. 
These findings provide critical insights for the clinical application of 
gastrodin.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26189097
PMCID: PMC12471180
PMID: 41009659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


8. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 16;26(18):9009. doi: 10.3390/ijms26189009.

Chimeric Antigen Receptor Cell Therapy: Current Status and Its Potential in 
Aging and Alzheimer's Disease.

Jurcau MC(1), Iovanovici CD(2), Jurcau A(3), Militaru M(4), Udrea RB(2), 
Comanescu A(3), Nunkoo VS(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, University of Oradea, 1 Decembrie Square 
nr. 10, 410073 Oradea, Romania.
(2)Doctoral School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Oradea, Universitatii 
Street nr. 1, 410087 Oradea, Romania.
(3)Department of Psycho-Neurosciences and Rehabilitation, Faculty of Medicine 
and Pharmacy, University of Oradea, 1 Decembrie Square nr. 10, 410073 Oradea, 
Romania.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, "Victor Babeș" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Eftimie Murgu Square nr. 2, 300041 Timisoara, Romania.

With an aging population, there is a worldwide increase in the prevalence of 
neurodegenerative diseases. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form 
of dementia. Research focusing on aging has revealed a time-related accumulation 
of senescent cells that escape the cell cycle but remain metabolically active 
and spread the senescent traits to neighboring cells via the 
senescence-associated secretory phenotype. The accumulated senescent cells in 
various tissues are involved in the pathogenesis of several age-related 
conditions. As such, eliminating them would be an appealing anti-aging strategy. 
Following the high success rates of engineered chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T 
cells in hematological malignancies, the scientific community has tried to adapt 
the strategy to fight aging and age-related diseases. Research in this area is 
only in its infancy, but the results obtained from in vitro and animal models 
are encouraging. Due to the serious side effects of CAR-T cell therapies 
(cytokine release syndrome, immune cell-associated neurological syndrome) and 
because in AD the elimination of neurons with neurofibrillary tangles and 
amyloid aggregates should be avoided (given the limited regenerative potential 
of these cells), CAR macrophages, CAR regulatory T cells, or exosomes derived 
from these cells are a more promising approach.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26189009
PMCID: PMC12469843
PMID: 41009574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


9. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 15;26(18):8961. doi: 10.3390/ijms26188961.

Tau Enhances Aggregation of S100A9 Protein and Further Association of Its 
Fibrils.

Krasauskas L(1), Veiveris D(1), Žiaunys M(1), Šulskis D(1), Sakalauskas A(1), 
Smirnovas V(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, Life Sciences Center, Vilnius University, 
LT-10257 Vilnius, Lithuania.

The formation and accumulation of amyloid fibrils is implicated as one of the 
main reasons for the onset and progression of several widespread 
neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. 
Decades of effort to unravel the intricate mechanisms of amyloid aggregation 
have only led to limited success in developing potent treatment modalities. 
Generally, this failure is considered to be the result of our incomplete 
understanding of the processes governing protein transitions into these 
insoluble fibrillar structures. Recently, a growing number of studies have 
reported that multiple amyloidogenic proteins, including ones related to the 
most debilitating disorders, can cross-interact during aggregation. This process 
leads to different nucleation and fibril elongation rates, aggregate structures, 
and even their cytotoxicity. Despite this revelation, the entire amyloid 
interactome remains largely unexplored. In this work, we investigate the 
cross-interaction between the Alzheimer's disease-related Tau protein and a 
pro-inflammatory S100A9 protein, which has recently been implicated as a 
possible modulator of amyloid aggregation. We show that Tau 2N4R enhances the 
amyloid aggregation propensity of S100A9 and mediates the self-association of 
the resulting fibrils, demonstrating this pairing's potential role in the onset 
of neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26188961
PMCID: PMC12469614
PMID: 41009529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


10. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 13;26(18):8926. doi: 10.3390/ijms26188926.

Boosting Neurogenesis as a Strategy in Treating Alzheimer's Disease.

Dwamena A(1), Beragama-Arachchi R(1), Wang H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, Garrison Institute on Aging, 
Center of Excellence for Translational Neuroscience and Therapeutics, School of 
Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) causes progressive cognitive decline and neuronal loss, 
partly due to the buildup of amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques and tau tangles. Despite 
years of research, treatments targeting these hallmark pathologies have yielded 
only modest clinical success, prompting interest in regenerative approaches to 
restore the brain's ability to repair itself. One such approach focuses on adult 
hippocampal neurogenesis, the process by which neural stem cells (NSCs) produce 
new neurons throughout life. In AD, this process is impaired, worsening 
cognitive deficits. In this review, we examine the molecular pathways that 
control adult neurogenesis, including transcriptional, epigenetic, inflammatory, 
and metabolic mechanisms, and how they become dysregulated in AD. We also 
highlight various therapeutic strategies aimed at boosting neurogenesis, such as 
pharmacological treatments, stem cell therapy, gene therapy, and epigenetic 
modulation. Preclinical studies indicate that enhancing neurogenesis can improve 
cognition and reduce brain pathology in AD models. Several of these treatments 
are now being tested in clinical trials. Ultimately, promoting neurogenesis may 
offer a promising avenue to complement current AD therapies and help restore 
lost neural function.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26188926
PMCID: PMC12470200
PMID: 41009493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


11. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 12;26(18):8907. doi: 10.3390/ijms26188907.

Neuroactive Phytochemicals as Multi-Target Modulators of Mental Health and 
Cognitive Function: An Integrative Review.

Tkaczenko H(1), Buyun L(2), Kołodziejska R(3), Kamiński P(4)(5), Kurhaluk N(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biology, Pomeranian University in Słupsk, Arciszewski St. 22B, 
76-200 Słupsk, Poland.
(2)Department of Tropical and Subtropical Plants, M.M. Hryshko National Botanic 
Garden, National Academy of Science of Ukraine, 01003 Kyiv, Ukraine.
(3)Department of Medical Biology and Biochemistry, Collegium Medicum in 
Bydgoszcz, Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, M. Karłowicz St. 24, 85-092 
Bydgoszcz, Poland.
(4)Department of Medical Biology and Biochemistry, Division of Ecology and 
Environmental Protection, Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Nicolaus Copernicus 
University in Toruń, M. Skłodowska-Curie St. 9, 85-094 Bydgoszcz, Poland.
(5)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Biological Sciences, Faculty of 
Biological Sciences, University of Zielona Góra, Prof. Z. Szafran St. 1, 65-516 
Zielona Góra, Poland.

The growing prevalence of mental health issues and cognitive impairment poses a 
significant challenge to global public health. Conditions such as depression, 
anxiety, neurodegenerative diseases, and stress-related cognitive dysfunction 
are becoming more common, while conventional pharmacotherapies are often limited 
by suboptimal efficacy, adverse side effects, and concerns about long-term use. 
Against this backdrop, neurophytochemistry-the study of plant-derived bioactive 
compounds-has emerged as a promising area of research. This review explores the 
potential of selected phytochemicals to support mental well-being and cognitive 
function via various molecular mechanisms. Compounds such as apigenin, 
hesperidin, and epigallocatechin gallate have been shown to have a significant 
impact on key regulatory pathways. These include enhancing neurogenesis via 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor, modulating neurotransmitter systems (such as 
GABA and serotonin), and attenuating oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. The 
therapeutic relevance of these compounds is discussed in the context of 
depression, anxiety, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and 
stress-related cognitive dysfunction, often referred to as 'brain fog'. This 
review synthesizes evidence published between 2010 and 2025 from several 
scientific databases, including PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, and Embase. 
Preliminary evidence from in vitro studies and animal models indicates that 
neurophytochemicals could enhance synaptic plasticity, protect neurons from 
oxidative damage, and modulate inflammatory pathways, particularly those 
involving NF-κB and the Nrf2/ARE antioxidant response. In addition, early human 
clinical trials have shown that phytochemical supplementation can lead to 
improvements in mood regulation, stress response, and cognitive performance. 
Furthermore, emerging evidence suggests that the gut-brain axis plays a key role 
in mediating the effects of phytochemicals. Several compounds have been found to 
modulate the composition of gut microbiota in ways that could enhance the 
function of the central nervous system. While the initial results are 
encouraging, more high-quality clinical trials and mechanistic studies are 
required to validate these findings, optimize dosage regimens, and guarantee the 
safety and efficacy of long-term use. Thus, neurophytochemicals represent a 
promising integrative approach to alleviating the increasing burden of mental 
and cognitive disorders through naturally derived therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26188907
PMCID: PMC12469506
PMID: 41009475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant interests to 
declare.


12. Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Sep 10;26(18):8803. doi: 10.3390/ijms26188803.

Kinetic Model with Feedback Cycle for Age-Dependent Amyloid Beta Accumulation in 
Mice.

Tyng V(1), Kellman ME(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 
97403, USA.
(2)Materials Science Institute, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403, USA.
(3)Institute for Fundamental Science, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403, 
USA.

Amyloid beta (Aβ) is believed to play a key role in Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
whose causes, progression, diagnosis, and treatment nonetheless remain poorly 
understood despite decades of research. Recent studies suggest that Aβ in its 
various forms participates in multiple mutual feedback loops ("vicious cycles") 
including tauopathy, oxidative stress, inflammation, calcium dysregulation, 
excitotoxicity, and probably many others, eventually leading to 
neurodegeneration and cognitive decline. Here, as an initial quantitative step 
toward modeling this vast complexity, we explore a simple kinetic model of a 
coupled feedback vicious cycle for Aβ buildup based on literature data for 
Tg2576 mice. The model is used to examine the efficacy of various hypothetical 
therapeutic approaches, either singly or in combination, to mitigate Aβ buildup. 
While our computational results support the possible efficacy of combination 
interventions, they also suggest caution, inasmuch as clear synergy is not 
found. This kinetic approach highlights the essential importance of the vicious 
cycle of positive feedback in a quantitative model.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms26188803
PMCID: PMC12469918
PMID: 41009371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


13. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Aug 25;14(9):1047. doi: 10.3390/antiox14091047.

Non-Electrophilic Activation of NRF2 in Neurological Disorders: Therapeutic 
Promise of Non-Pharmacological Strategies.

Li C(1)(2)(3), Powell K(1)(2), Giliberto L(4)(5), LeDoux C(1)(6), d'Abramo C(4), 
Sciubba D(2)(3), Al Abed Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Translational Brain Research Laboratory, Feinstein Institutes for Medical 
Research, Manhasset, NY 11030, USA.
(2)Institute of Bioelectronic Medicine, Feinstein Institutes for Medical 
Research, Manhasset, NY 11030, USA.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, 
Hempstead, NY 11549, USA.
(4)The Litwin-Zucker Center for Alzheimer's Disease & Memory Disorders, 
Institute of Molecular Medicine, Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research, 
Manhasset, NY 11030, USA.
(5)Institute for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Northwell Health, Manhasset, NY 
11030, USA.
(6)Department of Biology, Hofstra University, Hempstead, NY 11549, USA.

Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) serves as a master 
transcriptional regulator of cellular antioxidant responses through 
orchestration of cytoprotective gene expression, establishing its significance 
as a therapeutic target in cerebral pathophysiology. Classical electrophilic 
NRF2 activators, despite potent activation potential, exhibit paradoxically 
reduced therapeutic efficacy relative to single antioxidants, attributable to 
concurrent oxidative stress generation, glutathione depletion, mitochondrial 
impairment, and systemic toxicity. Although emerging non-electrophilic 
pharmacological activators offer therapeutic potential, their utility remains 
limited by bioavailability and suboptimal potency, underscoring the imperative 
for innovative therapeutic strategies to harness this cytoprotective pathway. 
Non-pharmacological interventions, including neuromodulation, physical exercise, 
and lifestyle modifications, activate NRF2 through non-canonical, 
non-electrophilic pathways involving protein-protein interaction inhibition, 
KEAP1 degradation, post-translational and transcriptional modulation, and 
protein stabilization, though mechanistic characterization remains incomplete. 
Such interventions utilize multi-mechanistic approaches that synergistically 
integrate multiple non-electrophilic NRF2 pathways or judiciously combine 
electrophilic and non-electrophilic mechanisms while mitigating 
electrophile-induced toxicity. This strategy confers neuroprotective effects 
without the contraindications characteristic of classical electrophilic 
activators. This review comprehensively examines the mechanistic underpinnings 
of non-pharmacological NRF2 modulation, highlighting non-electrophilic 
activation pathways that bypass the limitations inherent to electrophilic 
activators. The evidence presented herein positions non-pharmacological 
interventions as viable therapeutic approaches for achieving non-electrophilic 
NRF2 activation in the treatment of cerebrovascular and neurodegenerative 
pathologies.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14091047
PMCID: PMC12466531
PMID: 41008955

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


14. Antioxidants (Basel). 2025 Aug 25;14(9):1044. doi: 10.3390/antiox14091044.

Oxidative Stress, Advanced Glycation End Products (AGEs), and Neurodegeneration 
in Alzheimer's Disease: A Metabolic Perspective.

Boccardi V(1), Mancinetti F(1), Mecocci P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine and Surgery, 
University of Perugia, 06120 Perugia, Italy.
(2)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Karolinska Institutet, 17177 Stockholm, Sweden.

Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) are closely linked 
to oxidative stress and advanced glycation end products (AGEs), two interrelated 
processes that exacerbate neuronal damage through mitochondrial dysfunction, 
protein aggregation, and chronic inflammation. This narrative review explores 
the metabolic interplay between reactive oxygen species (ROS) and AGEs, with a 
focus on the AGE-RAGE (receptor for advanced glycation end products) signaling 
axis as a driver of neurodegeneration. Evidence from preclinical and clinical 
studies highlights their combined role in disease progression and underscores 
potential therapeutic targets. Strategies including mitochondria-targeted 
antioxidants, AGE inhibitors, RAGE antagonists, and metabolic interventions are 
discussed, along with future directions for biomarker development and 
personalized treatments. This review integrates current molecular insights into 
a unified metabolic-inflammatory model of AD, highlighting translational 
therapeutic opportunities.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox14091044
PMCID: PMC12466709
PMID: 41008951

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


15. Biomolecules. 2025 Sep 19;15(9):1345. doi: 10.3390/biom15091345.

Perspectives on Alzheimer's Disease Treatment Based on Counteracting Oxidative 
Stress.

Bilski R(1), Dąbkowski S(2), Kozieł I(2), Kozicki M(2), Małachowska A(2), 
Przygocki M(2), Tyska O(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biology and Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Ludwik 
Rydygier Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Nicolaus Copernicus University in 
Toruń, 24 Karłowicza St., 85-092 Bydgoszcz, Poland.
(2)Students Research Club of Medical Biology, Department of Medical Biology and 
Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Ludwik Rydygier Collegium Medicum in 
Bydgoszcz, Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, 87-100 Torun, Poland.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder and one of 
the most pressing global health challenges. Increasing evidence highlights 
oxidative stress as a key factor in its pathogenesis, contributing to amyloid-β 
accumulation, tau hyperphosphorylation, neuroinflammation, and mitochondrial 
dysfunction. Oxidative stress markers, detected in the bodily fluids of AD 
patients, are considered promising diagnostic and prognostic tools. Despite 
extensive research, currently available therapies remain largely symptomatic, 
which emphasizes the need to develop novel, disease-modifying strategies. The 
aim of this review is to summarize current knowledge on the role of oxidative 
stress in the pathogenesis of AD and to evaluate therapeutic approaches aimed at 
its reduction. We discuss molecular mechanisms linking reactive oxygen species 
to neurodegeneration and present pharmacological strategies such as monoamine 
oxidase inhibitors and multifunctional agents, as well as natural antioxidants, 
dietary interventions, and novel therapeutic technologies. We pay particular 
attention to their efficacy, limitations, and translational challenges. A more 
profound understanding of oxidative stress-related mechanisms may facilitate the 
development of combined antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective 
approaches, offering new perspectives for delaying disease progression and 
improving patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15091345
PMCID: PMC12467958
PMID: 41008652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


16. Biomolecules. 2025 Sep 11;15(9):1310. doi: 10.3390/biom15091310.

Overview of Proteomic Analysis of Amyloid Plaques and Neurofibrillary Tangles in 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Grewal A(1), Raikundalia S(1), Zaia J(1)(2), Sethi MK(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Biomedical Mass Spectrometry, Department of Biochemistry and Cell 
Biology, Boston University Chobanian and Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, 
MA 02118, USA.
(2)Bioinformatics Program, Boston University, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

In this review, we describe the methods used for the extraction and mass 
spectrometry proteomics analysis of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles 
(NFTs), the two primary pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We 
also provide a comprehensive overview of the mass spectrometry-based studies 
conducted to analyze these pathological features. AD is the most prevalent form 
of dementia and the sixth leading cause of death in the United States. While the 
current treatments can alleviate early-stage memory and cognitive symptoms, they 
do not offer a cure. Thus, there is a pressing need to deepen our understanding 
of the neuropathological mechanisms underlying AD and to develop more effective 
therapeutics. In-depth mass spectrometry-based proteomics analyses of AD 
pathology-specifically, extracellular the Aβ plaques found in extracellular 
spaces and blood vessel walls and intraneuronal NFTs composed of the 
microtubule-associated protein tau-may offer molecular-level observations that 
contribute to the understanding of the biological context of plaque and NFT 
formation and support the discovery of potential biomarkers and therapeutic 
targets for AD.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15091310
PMCID: PMC12467479
PMID: 41008617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


17. Biomolecules. 2025 Sep 10;15(9):1300. doi: 10.3390/biom15091300.

Cerebrospinal Fluid Erythrocyte Burden Amplifies the Impact of PTAU on 
Entorhinal Degeneration in Alzheimer's Disease.

Christodoulou RC(1), Vamvouras G(2), Petrou V(3), Papageorgiou PS(4), Pitsillos 
R(5), Rivera L(6), Vassiliou E(7), Papageorgiou SG(8), Solomou EE(9), For The 
Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.
(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Technical University of 
Athens, 15772 Zografou, Greece.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Ioannina, 45110 Ioannina, Greece.
(4)2nd Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, Aghia Sophia 
Pediatric General Hospital, Thivon 3 Street, 15772 Athens, Greece.
(5)Neurophysiology Department, The Cyprus Institute of Neurology and Genetics, 
Nicosia 2371, Cyprus.
(6)Department of Medicine, American University of Antigua College of Medicine, 
St. Johns 1451, Antigua and Barbuda.
(7)Department of Biological Sciences, Kean University, Union, NJ 07083, USA.
(8)1st Department of Neurology, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, Eginition Hospital, 15772 Athens, Greece.
(9)Internal Medicine-Hematology, University of Patras Medical School, 26500 
Rion, Greece.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves ongoing neurodegeneration, with 
phosphorylated tau (PTAU) intracellular accumulation closely associated with 
cortical shrinking. However, not everyone with high PTAU levels shows the same 
degree of neurodegeneration, implying that other biological stress factors might 
influence tau's harmful effects. This research explores whether cerebrospinal 
fluid erythrocyte burden (CTRED), a marker indicating vascular-CSF barrier 
disruption and heme toxicity, affects the link between PTAU181 levels and 
entorhinal cortex atrophy in AD.
METHODS: We examined 25 observations from 18 patients with AD using a linear 
mixed effects model. The dependent variable was entorhinal cortex volume, with 
fixed effects for PTAU, CTRED, and their interaction. Random intercepts 
accounted for variability within subjects. A cognitively normal (CN) control 
group was included for comparison.
RESULTS: CTRED is significantly associated with reduced entorhinal volume (p = 
0.005). A notable interaction between CTRED and PTAU was also found (p = 0.004), 
suggesting that higher CTRED enhances PTAU's atrophic effects. PTAU alone was 
not a significant predictor. No significant effects were observed in the CN 
group, which supports the specificity of the disease.
CONCLUSIONS: CTRED alters the neurotoxic impact of PTAU on the entorhinal cortex 
in AD, supporting a multi-hit model of degeneration that involves tau pathology 
and erythrocyte-derived stress. These findings emphasize the clinical importance 
of vascular-CSF biomarkers in predicting neurodegeneration and guiding targeted 
treatments.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15091300
PMCID: PMC12467901
PMID: 41008607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


18. Biomolecules. 2025 Sep 8;15(9):1290. doi: 10.3390/biom15091290.

Translating Alzheimer's Disease Mechanisms into Therapeutic Opportunities.

Li J(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Wang L(1), Zhang X(1), Shi J(2)(3), Zhu Y(4)(5), Wang H(6), 
Zhu X(6), Zhu Q(1), Luo JL(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Nantong University, No. 9, Seyuan Road, Nantong 226001, 
China.
(2)Institute for Translational Neuroscience, Second Affiliated Hospital, Nantong 
University, Nantong 226001, China.
(3)Centre for Neural Developmental and Degenerative Research, Nantong 
University, Nantong 226001, China.
(4)Laboratory of Drug Discovery from Natural Resources and Industrialization, 
Macau University of Science and Technology, Macau, China.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Macau University of Science and Technology, Macau, China.
(6)Department for Neurology, Second Affiliated Hospital, Nantong University, 
Nantong 226001, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), characterized by progressive cognitive decline and 
functional impairment, is the most prevalent cause of dementia, and it poses a 
significant socioeconomic and caregiving burden on patients, families, and 
healthcare systems. Notwithstanding comprehensive research, the precise causes 
underlying AD remain ambiguous. Evidence increasingly indicates that AD is a 
multifactorial and heterogeneous disease involving a mix of genetic and 
environmental factors. The amyloid-cascade hypothesis, neuroinflammation and 
immunity, vascular pathology, and oxidative stress all fulfill significant 
functions in the onset and development of AD. This review primarily examines the 
critical pathogenesis, key biomarkers, and novel therapeutic strategies of 
Alzheimer's disease to inform future research directions.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15091290
PMCID: PMC12467072
PMID: 41008597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


19. Biomolecules. 2025 Sep 1;15(9):1268. doi: 10.3390/biom15091268.

Zinc Therapy in Mild Cognitive Impairment: Cognitive Stabilization in 
Pharmacodynamically Responsive Patients in the ZINCAiD Trial.

Squitti R(1)(2)(3), Benussi A(4)(5), Fostinelli S(1), Geviti A(6), Rivolta J(7), 
Ventriglia M(8), Micera A(9), Rongioletti M(2), Ghidoni R(1), Santilli 
M(10)(11)(12)(13), Granzotto A(10)(11)(12)(13), Albanese A(14)(15), Binetti 
G(1), Sensi SL(10)(11)(12)(13), Borroni B(1)(16).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Markers Laboratory, IRCCS Istituto Centro San Giovanni di Dio 
Fatebenefratelli, 25125 Brescia, Italy.
(2)Department of Laboratory Science, Research and Development Division, Ospedale 
Isola Tiberina Gemelli Isola, 00186 Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Theoretical and Applied Sciences (DISTA), eCampus University, 
22100 Como, Italy.
(4)Neurology Unit, Department of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, 
University of Trieste, 34127 Trieste, Italy.
(5)Neurology Clinic, Department of Medicine, Surgery and Health Sciences, 
Azienda Sanitaria Universitaria Giuliano Isontina, 34148 Trieste, Italy.
(6)Service of Statistics, IRCCS Istituto Centro San Giovanni di Dio 
Fatebenefratelli, 25125 Brescia, Italy.
(7)Neurology Unit, Department of Continuity of Care and Frailty, ASST Spedali 
Civili Hospital, 25123 Brescia, Italy.
(8)Clinical Research Center, Ospedale Isola Tiberina Gemelli Isola, 00186 Rome, 
Italy.
(9)Research and Development Laboratory for Biochemical, Molecular and Cellular 
Applications in Ophthalmological Science, IRCCS-Fondazione Bietti, 00184 Rome, 
Italy.
(10)Department of Neuroscience, Imaging and Clinical Sciences, "G. d'Annunzio" 
University of Chieti-Pescara, 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(11)Institute for Advanced Biomedical Technologies (ITAB), "G. d'Annunzio" 
University of Chieti-Pescara, 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(12)Centre for Advanced Studies and Technology (CAST), "G. d'Annunzio" 
University of Chieti-Pescara, 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(13)Neurology Institute, SS Annunziata University Hospital, 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(14)Department of Neurology, IRCCS Humanitas Research Hospital, 20089 Rozzano, 
Italy.
(15)Department of Neuroscience, Catholic University, 20123 Milan, Italy.
(16)Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University of Brescia, 
25121 Brescia, Italy.

Dysregulation contributes to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology. Zinc 
therapy promotes enterocyte copper sequestration, potentially reducing systemic 
copper. Individual biological responses may vary.
METHODS: ZINCAiD was a 24-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
phase II trial assessing zinc therapy in individuals with mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) due to AD (EudraCT No.: 2019-000604-15; registered on 26 March 
2020). Participants were randomized 2:1 to receive elemental zinc (135 mg/day 
for 12 weeks, then 65 mg/day) or placebo. Ceruloplasmin was measured at 
predefined intervals for safety monitoring, blinded to the investigators. Post 
hoc, "Zinc Responders" were defined by ≥20% reduction in ceruloplasmin at week 
12. The primary cognitive endpoint was the Cognitive Composite 2 scale (CC2); 
secondary endpoints included MMSE and CDR-Sob.
FINDINGS: Of the 48 participants randomized, 9 discontinued, primarily due to 
unrelated clinical deterioration; 39 had complete ceruloplasmin data. Two 
serious adverse events occurred in the Placebo group. Mild gastrointestinal 
symptoms occurred in eight participants, with only four leading to dropout. In 
the primary zinc vs. placebo analysis, no significant differences emerged in 
cognitive outcomes. A post hoc exploratory analysis stratified participants by 
pharmacodynamic response: 12 individuals with MCI due to AD (31%) met the 
criteria for "Zinc Responder," defined by ≥20% reduction in serum ceruloplasmin 
at week 12. Only Zinc Responders maintained cognitive stability over 24 weeks, 
whereas the combined group of Zinc Non-Responders and placebo-treated 
participants showed a significant decline. For the composite cognitive score 
(CC2), the interaction between visit and response group was significant (p = 
0.030), with deterioration observed only in the Non-Responder + Placebo group (Δ 
= -2.72, p < 0.0001 vs. -0.71, p = 0.35 in Responders). Similar patterns were 
observed for CDR-Sob (interaction p = 0.017) and MMSE (trend p = 0.09).
INTERPRETATION: Zinc therapy stabilized cognition in a pharmacodynamically 
defined MCI subgroup. These exploratory findings suggest serum ceruloplasmin as 
a feasible biomarker of target engagement. Larger trials are needed for 
confirmation.

DOI: 10.3390/biom15091268
PMCID: PMC12466942
PMID: 41008575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no commercial conflicts of 
interest relating to this work.


20. Brain Sci. 2025 Sep 17;15(9):1004. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15091004.

Primary Cilia and Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Alzheimer's Disease.

Sunderman CL(1), Forero KV(1), Alorjani Q(1), Buqaileh R(1), Gallagher GM(1), 
Ventresca SM(1), Messer WS Jr(1), AbouAlaiwi WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, University of 
Toledo, Toledo, OH 43614, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia worldwide due to 
an aging population. AD is characterized as a progressive neurodegenerative 
disease that leads to atrophy of brain tissue, causing cognitive deficits. 
Amyloid beta plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are pathological hallmarks of 
AD, yet the cause is still highly debated. Many other cardiovascular diseases 
and vascular manifestations share the same symptoms as patients with AD. In this 
review, the current understanding of AD is summarized with a brief discussion on 
how primary cilia dysfunction and impaired nitric oxide (NO) signaling 
contribute to cardiovascular risk factors, vascular pathology, and cognitive 
decline in AD. Finally, we highlight primary cilia as a possible therapeutic 
target and any future directions for treating AD.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15091004
PMCID: PMC12468187
PMID: 41008364

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


21. Brain Sci. 2025 Sep 14;15(9):987. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15090987.

Multifaceted Role of Nef in HIV-Associated Neurocognitive Disorder: 
Histopathological Alterations and Underlying Mechanisms.

Scuderi G(1), Fagone P(1), Petralia MC(2), Nicoletti F(1), Basile MS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences, University of 
Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, 
98122 Messina, Italy.
(3)Department of Medicine and Surgery, "Kore" University of Enna, 94100 Enna, 
Italy.

Although antiretroviral regimens achieve durable suppression of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication, individuals living with HIV remain at 
an increased risk of developing chronic comorbidities, such as HIV-associated 
neurocognitive disorder (HAND). In the absence of definitive biomarkers or 
curative treatments, HAND impacts the survival and quality of life in up to 50% 
of individuals with HIV. Therefore, novel strategies are highly warranted to 
improve the diagnosis, monitoring, and treatment of individuals with HAND and a 
deeper characterization of the still poorly understood pathogenesis of HAND is 
fundamental to this aim. The pathogenesis, progression, and clinical outcomes of 
HAND are influenced by different factors, including viral proteins like negative 
factor (Nef). Among HIV proteins, Nef emerges as a potential key contributor to 
HAND pathogenesis. Nef could drive specific histopathological alterations in the 
brain and could be involved in HAND through different interconnected 
pathogenetic mechanisms. These include: immune dysregulation, oxidative stress, 
mitochondrial dysfunction, disruption of autophagy, myelin damage and 
oligodendrocytes dysfunction, blood-brain barrier disruption, alterations of 
cholesterol homeostasis, and certain potential converging mechanisms with 
Alzheimer's disease. Both extracellular and intracellular Nef can contribute to 
the development of HAND. Interestingly, it has been proposed that Nef may 
participate in HAND through its incorporation into extracellular vesicles. This 
review explores the multifaceted role of Nef in HAND, highlighting the 
histopathological alterations and the pathogenetic mechanisms potentially 
involved and the potential emerging relevance of Nef as a diagnostic and 
therapeutic target in HAND.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15090987
PMCID: PMC12468010
PMID: 41008347

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


22. Brain Sci. 2025 Aug 28;15(9):934. doi: 10.3390/brainsci15090934.

Beyond the Eye: Glaucoma and the Brain.

Zeppieri M(1)(2), Visalli F(3), Musa M(4)(5), Avitabile A(6), Giglio R(2), 
Tognetto D(2), Gagliano C(7)(8), D'Esposito F(7)(9), Cappellani F(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital of Udine, 33100 Udine, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Health Sciences, University of Trieste, 
34129 Trieste, Italy.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy.
(4)Department of Optometry, University of Benin, Benin 300283, Nigeria.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Africa Eye Laser Center Ltd., Benin 300211, 
Nigeria.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, University of Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy.
(7)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Enna "Kore", 94100 Enna, 
Italy.
(8)Eye Center "G.B. Morgagni-DSV", 95100 Catania, Italy.
(9)Imperial College Ophthalmic Research Group (ICORG) Unit, Imperial College, 
153-173 Marylebone Rd., London NW1 5QH, UK.

Glaucoma is traditionally classified as an ocular disease characterized by 
progressive retinal ganglion cell (RGC) loss and optic nerve damage. However, 
emerging evidence suggests that its pathophysiology may extend beyond the eye, 
involving trans-synaptic neurodegeneration along the visual pathway and 
structural changes within central brain regions, including the lateral 
geniculate nucleus and visual cortex. In this narrative review, we have used the 
phrase 'brain involvement' to underscore central changes that accompany or 
follow retinal ganglion cell loss; we have not intended to redefine glaucoma as 
a primary cerebral disorder. Neuroimaging studies and neurocognitive assessments 
in adult glaucoma patients, primarily older individuals with primary open-angle 
glaucoma reveal that glaucoma patients may exhibit alterations in brain 
connectivity and cortical thinning, aligning it more closely with 
neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. This 
evolving neurocentric perspective raises important questions regarding shared 
mechanisms-such as mitochondrial dysfunction, chronic inflammation, and impaired 
axonal transport-that may link glaucomatous optic neuropathy to central nervous 
system (CNS) pathology. These insights open promising therapeutic avenues, 
including the repurposing of neuroprotective and neuroregenerative agents, 
targeting not only intraocular pressure (IOP) but also broader CNS pathways. 
Furthermore, neuroimaging biomarkers and brain-targeted interventions may play a 
future role in diagnosis, prognosis, and individualized treatment. This review 
synthesizes current evidence supporting glaucoma as a CNS disease, explores the 
mechanistic overlap with neurodegeneration, and discusses the potential clinical 
implications of glaucoma within a neuro-ophthalmologic paradigm.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci15090934
PMCID: PMC12467791
PMID: 41008294

Conflict of interest statement: Author Mutali Musa was employed by the company 
Africa Eye Laser Center Ltd. All authors declare that the research was conducted 
in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be 
construed as a potential conflict of interest.


23. Biomedicines. 2025 Sep 5;13(9):2167. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13092167.

Intrathecal Therapies for Neurodegenerative Diseases: A Review of Current 
Approaches and the Urgent Need for Advanced Delivery Systems.

Schreiner TG(1)(2), Menéndez-González M(3)(4)(5), Schreiner OD(1)(6)(7), Ciobanu 
RC(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Specialties III, Faculty of Medicine, "Grigore T. Popa" 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(2)First Neurology Clinic, "N. Oblu" Clinical Emergency Hospital, 700309 Iasi, 
Romania.
(3)Facultad de Medicina y Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de Oviedo, Calle 
Julián Clavería s/n, 33006 Oviedo, Spain.
(4)Department of Neurology, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, Avenida 
Roma s/n, 33011 Oviedo, Spain.
(5)Spain Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Principado de Asturias, 
Avenida Roma s/n, 33011 Oviedo, Spain.
(6)Medical Oncology Department, Regional Institute of Oncology, 700483 Iasi, 
Romania.
(7)Department of Electrical Measurements and Materials, Gheorghe Asachi 
Technical University, 700050 Iasi, Romania.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) pose an immense global health burden, and 
developing effective treatments is hindered by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). 
Intrathecal (IT) administration of therapeutics directly into the cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) bypasses the BBB, offering a promising avenue for antisense 
oligonucleotides (ASOs), gene therapies, antibodies, and stem cells for these 
disorders. This review synthesizes the current landscape of IT therapies for 
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and Amyotrophic 
Lateral Sclerosis based on the current literature and ClinicalTrials.gov. We 
highlight key trials and approaches, including the success of ASOs in spinal 
muscular atrophy and recent progress in other NDDs. However, the efficacy of 
these novel treatments is often constrained by the limitations of 
first-generation IT delivery systems, which struggle with uneven distribution, 
systemic leakage, and the demands of modern biologics. Drawing from recent 
analyses, we underscore the critical shortcomings of current devices and point 
out the innovations needed in shaping next-generation systems: subcutaneous 
access ports, CSF flow platforms, AI-driven adaptive dosing, nanoporous 
membranes, intrathecal pseudodelivery, and hydrogel scaffolds. We conclude by 
emphasizing the urgent need for these advanced IT drug delivery systems, 
alongside rigorous comparative assessments, cost-benefit analyses, and clear 
regulatory pathways to fully realize the potential of emerging CNS therapies and 
transform NDD management.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13092167
PMCID: PMC12467120
PMID: 41007730

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


24. Biomedicines. 2025 Sep 3;13(9):2148. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13092148.

Characterization of the Anticholinesterase and Antioxidant Properties of 
Phytochemicals from Moringa oleifera as a Potential Treatment for Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Aljadaan AM(1)(2), AlSaadi AM(2), Shaikh IA(1), Whitby A(3), Ray A(2), Kim 
DH(4)(5), Carter WG(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, Najran University, P.O. Box 
1988, Najran 66462, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Clinical Toxicology Research Group, School of Medicine, Royal Derby Hospital 
Centre, University of Nottingham, Derby DE22 3DT, UK.
(3)Children's Brain Tumour Research Centre, School of Medicine, Biodiscovery 
Institute, University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK.
(4)Centre for Analytical Bioscience, Advanced Materials and Healthcare 
Technologies Division, School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham 
NG7 2RD, UK.
(5)College of Pharmacy, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566, Republic of 
Korea.

Background/Objectives: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of 
dementia and is characterized by a decline in cognition that may be due, in 
part, to deficient cholinergic signalling. Cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) are 
the first-line pharmacotherapies for treating the diminished cholinergic 
function in AD patients. Plant phytochemicals may provide useful ChEIs and 
mitigate other elements of AD pathology, including oxidative stress. Methods: 
Herein, the phytochemicals present in Moringa oleifera aqueous and methanolic 
extracts were identified by LC-MS/MS and the potential of several phytochemicals 
(4-O-caffeoylquinic acid (4-CQA), quercetin 3-β-D-glucoside (Q3-β-D), 
chlorogenic acid (CGA), and rutin) to act as ChEIs and antioxidants was 
assessed. Results: The phytochemicals inhibited human acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE) in the following order of potency: 4-CQA > Q3-β-D > CGA > rutin; for AChE 
from Electrophorus electricus, the order of potency was Q3-β-D > 4-CQA > CGA > 
rutin. For human butyrylcholinesterase (hBuChE), the order of potency was rutin 
> 4-CQA > Q3-β-D > CGA and for equine serum BuChE, it was 4-CQA > Q3-β-D > rutin 
> CGA. Molecular docking validated the binding of the phytochemicals to 
cholinesterases, with binding affinities comparable to or higher than those of 
ChEI drugs. All the phytochemicals displayed potent radical-scavenging and 
antioxidant activities across six assays. 4-CQA was the most effective 
antioxidant in three of the assays. Conclusions: M. oleifera contains 
phytochemicals with weak ChEI activity and potent antioxidant capacity, with 
potential use as nutraceuticals to treat the cholinergic signalling deficit and 
oxidative stress that typifies AD pathology.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13092148
PMCID: PMC12467246
PMID: 41007711

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of the data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the 
decision to publish the results.


25. Biomedicines. 2025 Aug 30;13(9):2118. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13092118.

Artificial Intelligence-Driven Neuromodulation in Neurodegenerative Disease: 
Precision in Chaos, Learning in Loss.

Calderone A(1), Latella D(1), La Fauci E(2), Puleo R(2), Sergi A(2), De 
Francesco M(2), Mauro M(2), Foti A(2), Salemi L(2), Calabrò RS(1).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Centro Neurolesi Bonino-Pulejo, S.S. 113 Via Palermo, C.da Casazza, 
98124 Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, 
Piazza Pugliatti, 1, 98122 Messina, Italy.

Neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), and multiple sclerosis (MS) are marked by progressive network 
dysfunction that challenges conventional, protocol-based neurorehabilitation. In 
parallel, neuromodulation, encompassing deep brain stimulation (DBS), 
transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), transcranial direct current stimulation 
(tDCS), vagus nerve stimulation (VNS), and artificial intelligence (AI), has 
matured rapidly, offering complementary levers to tailor therapy in real time. 
This narrative review synthesizes current evidence at the intersection of AI and 
neuromodulation in neurorehabilitation, focusing on how data-driven models can 
personalize stimulation and improve functional outcomes. We conducted a targeted 
literature synthesis of peer-reviewed studies identified via PubMed, Embase, 
Scopus, and reference chaining, prioritizing recent clinical and translational 
reports on adaptive/closed-loop systems, predictive modeling, and 
biomarker-guided protocols. Across indications, convergent findings show that AI 
can optimize device programming, enable state-dependent stimulation, and support 
clinician decision-making through multimodal biomarkers derived from neural, 
kinematic, and behavioral signals. Key barriers include data quality and 
interoperability, model interpretability and safety, and ethical and regulatory 
oversight. Here we argue that AI-enhanced neuromodulation reframes 
neurorehabilitation from static dosing to adaptive, patient-specific care. 
Advancing this paradigm will require rigorous external validation, standardized 
reporting of control policies and artifacts, clinician-in-the-loop governance, 
and privacy-preserving analytics.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13092118
PMCID: PMC12467075
PMID: 41007681

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


26. Biomedicines. 2025 Aug 29;13(9):2108. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13092108.

Crossing Barriers: PEGylated Gold Nanoparticles as Promising Delivery Vehicles 
for siRNA Delivery in Alzheimer's Disease.

Okła E(1)(2), Hołota M(3), Michlewska S(4), Zawadzki S(1)(5), Miłowska K(1), 
Sánchez-Nieves J(6)(7), Gómez R(6)(7), De la Mata FJ(6)(7), Bryszewska M(1), 
Ionov M(1)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Biophysics, Faculty of Biology and Environmental 
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-236 Lodz, Poland.
(2)Doctoral School of Exact and Natural Sciences, University of Lodz, 21/23 
Matejki St., 90-237 Lodz, Poland.
(3)Department of Plant Ecophysiology, Faculty of Biology and Environmental 
Protection, University of Lodz, Banacha 12/16, 90-237 Lodz, Poland.
(4)Laboratory of Microscopic Imaging and Specialized Biological Techniques, 
Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection, University of Lodz, Banacha 
12/16, 90-237 Lodz, Poland.
(5)BioMedChem Doctoral School, University of Lodz and Lodz Institutes of the 
Polish Academy of Sciences, 21/23 Matejki St., 90-237 Lodz, Poland.
(6)Departamento de Química Orgánica y Química Inorgánica, Facultad de Farmacia, 
Universidad de Alcalá, 28805 Alcalá de Henares, Spain.
(7)Networking Research Center on Bioengineering, Biomaterials and Nanomedicine 
(CIBER-BBN), 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(8)Faculty of Medicine, Collegium Medicum, Mazovian Academy in Plock, Pl. 
Dabrowskiego 2, 09-402 Plock, Poland.

Background: The proportion of people suffering from neurodegenerative 
conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), is increasing in the population 
year on year. Despite the constant effort of researchers, these conditions 
remain incurable and can only be managed by alleviation or delaying of symptoms. 
The lack of suitable treatment is caused by constricted access to the brain, 
limited by the brain-blood barrier. The aim of this work was to investigate two 
pegylated gold nanoparticles as potential carriers of therapeutic siRNA and 
their impact on the cellular functions of Human Brain Endothelial Cells. Methods 
and Results: Nanoparticles AuNP14a and AuNP14b complexed with siRNA were 
internalized by HBEC-5i cells and located in the cytoplasm. The genotoxicity 
assay proved that the nucleus was not affected and complexed nanoparticles did 
not cause DNA damage. The reactive oxygen species formation and mitochondrial 
membrane potential changes were measured and showed an adaptive response of 
cells after compound administration. Results obtained in a cytotoxicity assay 
conducted on astrocytes and pericytes, which are components of the blood-brain 
barrier, confirmed the biosafety of tested nanoparticles. Conclusions: In 
summary, it was shown that AuNP14a and AuNP14b are promising candidates as 
nanocarriers for therapeutic nucleic acids through biological barriers.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13092108
PMCID: PMC12467891
PMID: 41007671

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


27. Biomedicines. 2025 Aug 26;13(9):2073. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13092073.

Epoxide Hydrolase Inhibitors for the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease and Other 
Neurological Disorders: A Comprehensive Review.

Abdalla M(1), Ibrahim M(1), Alkorbi N(1), Alkuwari S(1), Pedersen S(1), Rathore 
HA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Medical Science, College of Medicine, QU Health, Qatar 
University, Doha 2713, Qatar.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, QU Health, Qatar 
University, Doha 2713, Qatar.

Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia, yet current treatments 
only offer symptomatic relief, with little preventative, therapeutic, or 
disease-modifying properties. As a result, there has been growing interest in 
targeting various disease mechanisms. One promising target is soluble epoxide 
hydrolase (sEH), an enzyme found in many organs, playing an important role in 
metabolism and detoxification. In the brain, sEH is mainly present in 
astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and neuronal cell bodies, with higher 
concentrations in the cerebral cortex and striatum. The main function of sEH is 
the hydrolysis of epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs), which are important 
anti-inflammatory molecules derived from arachidonic acid. Deletion of EPHX2, 
the encoding gene of sEH, maintains EET levels in the brain and helps mitigate 
inflammation. Multiple studies have found links between sEH function, 
inflammation, and neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease. Several compounds, 
including TPPU, benzohomoadamantane derivatives, and natural products, have 
shown significant beneficial effects, including reduction of amyloid-beta 
plaques, tau fibrils, and inflammation, while improving cognition and neuronal 
structure and function. sEH inhibitors have also been explored for their 
potential in the management of Parkinson's disease, vascular dementia, stroke, 
and other neurodegenerative conditions. Although these preclinical findings are 
promising, efficacy and safety concerns still need to be addressed, and further 
clinical trials are needed to translate these therapeutic agents into clinical 
practice.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13092073
PMCID: PMC12467932
PMID: 41007636

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no conflict of interest.


28. Biology (Basel). 2025 Aug 30;14(9):1148. doi: 10.3390/biology14091148.

Neuroprotective Effects of Low-Intensity Pulsed Ultrasound in Chronic Traumatic 
Encephalopathy Induced by Repetitive Head Collisions: A Narrative Review.

Zhang M(1), Zhao L(2), Silveira PCL(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Sports and Health, Shandong Sport University, Jinan 250102, China.
(2)Office of Human Resources, Shandong Sport University, Jinan 250102, China.
(3)Laboratory of Experimental Physiopathology, Program of Postgraduate in 
Science of Health, Universidade do Extremo Sul Catarinense, Av. Universitária, 
1105 Universitário-Block S, Room 17, Criciúma 88806-000, SC, Brazil.

The repeated head impacts experienced by athletes have attracted significant 
interest from both the public and the scientific community; however, the 
neurobiological effects following the games are not well understood. For 
example, a single football match carries the risk of repeated concussive and 
subconcussive head impacts, which can increase the risk of developing 
neurodegenerative diseases. Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is one of the 
neurodegenerative conditions athletes often face or are unaware of. However, 
addressing the disease progression in CTE is difficult to determine due to 
several reasons, such as the failure to identify risk factors, difficulty in 
differentiating CTE from other neurodegenerative diseases, and the lack of a 
specific mechanism by which CTE leads to tau protein accumulation. In addition, 
CTE symptoms overlap with other neurodegenerative conditions, such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), which poses a challenge 
to producing specific targeted therapy. In this case, ultrasound represents a 
promising non-invasive technique that enables clear visualization of brain 
structures and may modulate neuronal activity. The term ultrasound encompasses 
various modalities; for example, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) 
employs thermal energy to ablate cells, whereas low-intensity pulsed ultrasound 
(LIPUS) delivers mechanical energy that activates molecular signaling pathways 
to impede the progression of CTE. Therefore, the LIPUS application could 
potentially minimize the risk of damage in the surrounding tissues of the brain 
and reduce the disease progression in individuals with CTE. Nevertheless, 
limited studies have been reported in the literature, with a poor mechanistic 
approach. Hence, this review aims to highlight the molecular signaling pathways, 
such as AKT, MAPK, and ERK, affected by LIPUS and emphasize the need for 
additional research to clarify its mechanistic effects in CTE management. 
Ultimately, this review aims to contribute to a nuanced understanding of LIPUS 
as a therapeutic strategy in addressing the complexities of CTE and its 
associated neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/biology14091148
PMCID: PMC12467377
PMID: 41007293

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


29. Biology (Basel). 2025 Aug 22;14(9):1112. doi: 10.3390/biology14091112.

Bone-Derived Factors: Regulating Brain and Treating Alzheimer's Disease.

Guan Q(1), Cao Y(2), Zou J(1), Zhang L(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Exercise and Health, Shanghai University of Sport, Shanghai 200438, 
China.
(2)College of Athletic Performance, Shanghai University of Sport, Shanghai 
200438, China.

In recent years, the bidirectional regulatory mechanism of the bone-brain axis 
has become a hotspot for interdisciplinary research. In this paper, we 
systematically review the anatomical and functional links between bone and the 
central nervous system, focusing on the regulation of brain function by 
bone-derived signals and their clinical translational potential. At the 
anatomical level, the blood-brain barrier permeability mechanism and the unique 
structure of the periventricular organs establish the anatomical basis for 
bone-brain information transmission. Innovative discoveries indicate that the 
bone cell network (bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells, osteoblasts, osteoclasts, 
and bone marrow monocytes) directly regulates neuroplasticity and the 
inflammatory microenvironment through the secretion of factors such as 
osteocalcin, lipid transporter protein 2, nuclear factor κB receptor-activating 
factor ligand, and fibroblast growth factor 23, as well as exosome-mediated 
remote signaling. Clinical studies have revealed a bidirectional vicious cycle 
between osteoporosis and Alzheimer's disease: reduced bone density exacerbates 
Alzheimer's disease pathology through pathways such as PDGF-BB, while AD-related 
neurodegeneration further accelerates bone loss. The breakthrough lies in the 
discovery that anti-osteoporotic drugs, such as bisphosphonates, improve 
cognitive function. In contrast, neuroactive drugs modulate bone metabolism, 
providing new strategies for the treatment of comorbid conditions. Additionally, 
whole-body vibration therapy shows potential for non-pharmacological 
interventions by modulating bone-brain interactions through the 
mechano-osteoclast signaling axis. In the future, it will be essential to 
integrate multiple groups of biomarkers to develop early diagnostic tools that 
promote precise prevention and treatment of bone-brain comorbidities. This 
article provides a new perspective on the mechanisms and therapeutic strategies 
of neuroskeletal comorbidities.

DOI: 10.3390/biology14091112
PMCID: PMC12467821
PMID: 41007258

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


30. Bioengineering (Basel). 2025 Aug 29;12(9):933. doi: 
10.3390/bioengineering12090933.

Extracellular Vesicle Secretion from 3D Culture of Human Adipose-Derived 
Mesenchymal Stem Cells in Scalable Bioreactors.

Ma S(1)(2), Ene J(1), McGarraugh C(1), Ma S(1)(3), Esmonde C(1), Liu Y(1), Li 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, FAMU-FSU College of 
Engineering, 2525 Pottsdamer St., Tallahassee, FL 32310, USA.
(2)Division of Biology and Medicine, Brown University, 69 Brown St., Providence, 
RI 02912, USA.
(3)Lawton Chiles High School, 7200 Lawton Chiles Ln, Tallahassee, FL 32312, USA.

Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) and their secreted extracellular vesicles 
(EVs) are promising therapeutics to treat degenerative or inflammatory diseases 
such as ischemic stroke and Alzheimer's disease (AD). hMSC-EVs have the coveted 
ability to contain therapeutically relevant biomaterials; however, EV biogenesis 
is sensitive to the culture microenvironment in vitro. Recently, the demand for 
hMSC-EVs has increased dramatically, highlighting the need for scalable 
bioreactors for large-scale biomanufacturing. In this study, adipose-derived 
hMSCs were seeded in 2D plates, an ultralow-attachment (ULA) plates as static 
aggregates, a novel vertical wheel bioreactor (VWBR) as aggregates, and a 
spinner flask bioreactor (SFB). EV secretion was quantified and compared using 
ExtraPEG-based ultracentrifugation and nanoparticle tracking analysis. Compared 
to the 2D group, significantly higher total EV production and cell productivity 
in the bioreactors were observed, as well as the upregulation of EV biogenesis 
genes. Furthermore, there was increased EV production in the VWBR compared to 
the SFB and the static ULA control. Functional assessments demonstrated that 
EVs, when delivered via culture medium or hydrogel-based systems, significantly 
attenuated oxidative stress elevation, suppressed proinflammatory cytokine 
secretion (e.g., TNF-α) and gene expression, and inhibited nuclear factor 
kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B-cell (NF-κB) activation and 
neurodegenerative markers across in vitro assays. These findings suggest 
EV-mediated mitigation of oxidative and inflammatory pathways, potentially 
through modulation of the NF-κB signaling cascade. This study shows the 
influence of bioreactor types and their microenvironments on EV secretion in 
hMSCs and their applications in hMSC-EV production and bioengineering.

DOI: 10.3390/bioengineering12090933
PMCID: PMC12467516
PMID: 41007177

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


31. Nat Aging. 2025 Sep 26. doi: 10.1038/s43587-025-00980-5. Online ahead of
print.

A Japanese registry for optimizing the safe use of anti-amyloid therapies for 
Alzheimer's disease in Japan.

Iwatsubo T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan. 
iwatsubo@ncnp.go.jp.
(2)Department of Dementia Inclusion and Therapeutics, The University of Tokyo 
Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. iwatsubo@ncnp.go.jp.

DOI: 10.1038/s43587-025-00980-5
PMID: 41006631

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The author has received 
consultancy and/or speakers fees from Eisai, Eli-Lilly and Company, Fujirebio 
and Fujifilm.


32. Sci Rep. 2025 Sep 26;15(1):33217. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-18542-5.

The cholinergic drug galantamine ameliorates acute and subacute peripheral and 
brain manifestations of acute respiratory distress syndrome in mice.

Falvey A(1), Palandira SP(1)(2), Chaudhry S(1), Tynan A(1), Consolim-Colombo 
FM(3), Metz CN(2)(4)(5), Brines M(1), Chang EH(1)(2)(4), Chavan SS(1)(2)(4), 
Tracey KJ(1)(2)(4), Pavlov VA(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioelectronic Medicine, Feinstein Institutes for Medical 
Research, Northwell Health, 350 Community Drive, Manhasset, NY, 11030, USA.
(2)Elmezzi Graduate School of Molecular Medicine, 350 Community Drive, 
Manhasset, NY, 11030, USA.
(3)Heart Institute, Medical School, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Donald and Barbara Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, 500 
Hofstra University, Hempstead, NY, 11549, USA.
(5)Institute of Molecular Medicine, Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research, 
Northwell Health, 350 Community Drive, Manhasset, NY, 11030, USA.
(6)Institute of Bioelectronic Medicine, Feinstein Institutes for Medical 
Research, Northwell Health, 350 Community Drive, Manhasset, NY, 11030, USA. 
vpavlov@northwell.edu.
(7)Elmezzi Graduate School of Molecular Medicine, 350 Community Drive, 
Manhasset, NY, 11030, USA. vpavlov@northwell.edu.
(8)Donald and Barbara Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, 500 
Hofstra University, Hempstead, NY, 11549, USA. vpavlov@northwell.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2025 May 22:2025.05.17.654675. doi: 10.1101/2025.05.17.654675.

Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a life-threatening form of acute 
lung injury (ALI), which is a common cause of respiratory failure and high 
mortality in critically ill patients. Long-term mortality and cognitive 
impairment have been documented in ARDS patients after hospital discharge. 
Inflammation plays a key role in ALI/ARDS pathogenesis. Neural cholinergic 
signaling regulates cytokine responses and inflammation. Here, we studied the 
effects of galantamine, an approved cholinergic drug (for Alzheimer's disease) 
on ALI/ARDS severity and inflammation in mice, using a clinically relevant mouse 
model induced by intratracheal administration of hydrochloric acid and 
lipopolysaccharide. Mice were treated 30 min prior to each insult with vehicle 
or galantamine (4 mg/kg, i.p.). Galantamine treatment significantly decreased 
bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and serum TNF, IL-1b, and IL-6 levels, as well as 
BAL total protein and myeloperoxidase (MPO) and lung histopathology in ALI/ARDS 
mice. In addition, galantamine improved the functional state of mice with 
ALI/ARDS during a 10-day monitoring and attenuated lung injury and indices of 
brain inflammation at 10 days. These findings support further studies utilizing 
this approved cholinergic drug in therapeutic strategies for ALI/ARDS and its 
subacute sequelae.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-18542-5
PMCID: PMC12475025
PMID: 41006538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: VAP and KJT 
have co-authored patents broadly related to the content of this paper. They have 
assigned their rights to the Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research. AF, SPP, 
SC, AT, FMC, CNM, MB, EHC, and SSC declare no conflict of interest.


33. Sci Rep. 2025 Sep 26;15(1):33073. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-13443-z.

Protective role of Karanjin against bisphenol A-Induced cognitive deficits and 
oxidative damage in a zebrafish model.

Logeshwari B(#)(1), Jeyabalan S(#)(2), Veeraraghavan G(3), Krishnaraj K(4), 
Ashok C(1), Rajasekaran NK(1), Pandiyan SDD(1), Siva R(3), Subramaniyan V(5), 
Wong LS(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Sri Ramachandra Faculty of Pharmacy, Sri 
Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (DU), Porur, Chennai, 
600116, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Sri Ramachandra Faculty of Pharmacy, Sri 
Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (DU), Porur, Chennai, 
600116, Tamil Nadu, India. srikanth.j@sriramachandra.edu.in.
(3)Centre for Toxicology & Developmental Research (CEFTE), Sri Ramachandra 
Institute of Higher Education and Research (DU), Porur, Chennai, 600116, Tamil 
Nadu, India.
(4)Formulation and development (R&D), Himalaya Wellness Company, Bengaluru, 
562123, Karnataka, India.
(5)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Sir Jeffrey Cheah Sunway Medical School, 
Faculty of Medical and Life Sciences, Sunway University, Sunway, Selangor Darul 
Ehsan, 47500, Malaysia.
(6)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, INTI International University, Putra 
Nilai, 71800, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia.
(#)Contributed equally

Bisphenol A (BPA), a persistent environmental contaminant with 
endocrine-disrupting properties, has been extensively linked to neurotoxicity, 
leading to cognitive decline, synaptic dysfunction, and neuronal degeneration. 
It crosses the blood-brain barrier and induces oxidative stress, mitochondrial 
impairment, and neuroinflammation, leading to neurodegenerative diseases such as 
Alzheimer's disease. This study investigates the neuroprotective effects of 
karanjin, a naturally occurring furanoflavonoid, against BPA-induced 
neurotoxicity using zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a model organism. Adult zebrafish 
were exposed to 4 mg/L BPA for 21 days, followed by karanjin supplementation at 
5 mg/L and 10 mg/L. Standard neuroprotective agents, donepezil and mentat, were 
used for comparison. Behavioral assessments, including novel tank diving, 
T-maze, novel object recognition, and Y-maze tests, showed that BPA exposure 
caused significant impairments in exploratory behavior, learning, and memory, 
which were reversed by high-dose karanjin. Biochemical analysis indicated BPA 
exposure elevated acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, which was significantly 
reduced by karanjin. Furthermore, karanjin restored glutathione (GSH) levels, 
increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, and reduced lipid peroxidation 
(LPO), indicating strong antioxidant capacity. Histopathological evaluation 
confirmed karanjin's neuroprotective effects by preserving neuronal integrity 
and preventing degeneration. These findings suggest karanjin exhibits 
neuroprotective potential comparable to FDA-approved drugs, warranting further 
research for therapeutic applications in neurodegenerative disorders.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-13443-z
PMCID: PMC12475202
PMID: 41006411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: This study was approved by the 
Institutional Animal Ethics Committee (IAEC), Sri Ramachandra Institute of 
Higher Education and Research (DU), Chennai, India, under reference number, 
IAEC/71/SRIHER/863/2023, following CCSEA guidelines and the 3Rs principles to 
ensure ethical animal research. All methods were carried out in accordance with 
relevant guidelines and regulations. All methods are reported in accordance with 
ARRIVE guidelines.


34. Eur J Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 24;1006:178192. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.178192. 
Online ahead of print.

Design, synthesis, and preclinical evaluation of novel 1-benzylpiperidine 
derivatives as multitarget agents against Alzheimer's disease.

Ramachandran AK(1), Govindula A(2), Ranadive N(2), Birangal SR(1), Bhat V(1), 
Fayaz SM(3), Shenoy GG(1), Mudgal J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, 
India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal Academy 
of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India; School 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Manipal University Jaipur, Jaipur, Rajasthan, 
303007, India. Electronic address: jayesh.mudgal@manipal.edu.

Small molecules targeting pathologies of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a promising 
approach. Identification of potential molecules using computational techniques 
and their synthesis provides potential applications in the treatment of AD. 2D 
fingerprint similarity screening, using the Tanimoto coefficient, identified 
structurally similar molecules to donepezil for lead identification. A molecule 
with a Tanimoto coefficient of 0.7 was chosen, and derivatives were synthesized. 
In silico screening of the synthesized compounds indicated strong binding to 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE). All molecules met drug-likeness criteria and showed 
100 % oral absorption. Key interactions with AChE were observed, crucial for 
inhibitory activity. Molecular dynamics simulations over 100 ns showed stable 
binding conformations. In vitro assays for AChE and amyloid β (Aβ) inhibition 
were conducted after the cytotoxicity testing in microglial cells for all four 
synthesized compounds. Among the tested compounds at 5 μM, 
(E)-2-(((1-benzylpiperidin-4-yl)imino)methyl)-4-methylphenol (5MeSA4ABP) with 
AChE (57.46 ± 2.140 %) and Aβ inhibition (57.83 ± 0.08 %), was selected for 
lipopolysaccharide-induced AD-like mouse model. Behavioural analysis using 
Morris water maze and open field tests revealed memory impairment in mice. Brain 
estimations were performed to study the effect of treatments on AD markers such 
as interleukin-6 (IL-6), Aβ and AChE. In mice with AD pathology, oral 
administration of 5MeSA4ABP resulted in improved cognitive function without any 
impact on locomotor activity. Except brain AChE activity, treatment with 
5MeSA4ABP significantly reversed the elevated brain IL-6 and Aβ levels. Thus, 
synthesized hybrid pharmacophores, 5MeSA4ABP, exert its activity via reducing 
neuroinflammation and plaque deposition. Future investigation are warranted for 
safety and efficacy mechanisms of 5MeSA4ABP against AD.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2025.178192
PMID: 41005603

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


35. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Sep 24;329(Pt 2):147874. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.147874. Online ahead of print.

Multi-omics integration reveals key miRNAs, immune inflammation, and signaling 
pathways in Alzheimer's disease: Implications for targeted therapy.

Wang G(1), Duan J(1), Sun L(1), Pan S(1), Liu Q(2), Fu K(3), Zhang D(1), Yuan 
X(1), Fan B(4), Hu B(5), Huang B(6).

Author information:
(1)Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Engineering Research Center for 3D Printing 
in Smart Biomanufacturing and Application, Guangxi Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Nanning, 530021, China.
(2)School of Animal Science and Technology, Guangxi University, Nanning, 530005, 
Guangxi, China.
(3)Department of Functional Neurosurgery, The People's Hospital of Guangxi 
Zhuang Autonomous Region, Nanning, 530021, China.
(4)Department of Geriatric Neurology, The People's Hospital of Guangxi Zhuang 
Autonomous Region, Nanning, 530021, China. Electronic address: fbl_1180@163.com.
(5)Department of Functional Neurosurgery, The People's Hospital of Guangxi 
Zhuang Autonomous Region, Nanning, 530021, China. Electronic address: 
ynhhhb@163.com.
(6)Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Engineering Research Center for 3D Printing 
in Smart Biomanufacturing and Application, Guangxi Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Nanning, 530021, China. Electronic address: benhuang@gxu.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), a common neurodegenerative disorder, has unclear 
molecular mechanisms and therapeutic targets. In this study, multi-omics 
analysis and experimental validation were performed. By integrating three 
miRNA-seq, four differentially expressed miRNAs (miR-339-3p, miR-28-3p, 
miR-423-3p, miR-144-5p) were identified, closely related to synaptic function 
and immune-inflammatory responses. By integrating blood RNA-seq data, we found 
725 mRNAs linked to AD, immune, and apoptosis pathways. Peripheral blood 
single-cell transcriptomics showed altered immune cell proportions in AD 
patients, indicating systemic immunodysregulation. Integrating the three omics 
datasets identified 388 key genes involved in JAK-STAT, PI3K-Akt, and MAPK 
pathways. Experimental validation showed that combining candidate miRNAs 
significantly reduced AD marker expression and promoted neuronal progenitor cell 
marker expression, but had limited effect on mature neuronal markers (MAP2, 
NeuN). However, providing a suitable neuronal environment could induce neuronal 
differentiation, showing neuronal induction potential. These findings reveal the 
dual role of synaptic dysfunction and neuroinflammation in AD progression, 
offering new insights into AD's molecular network and proposing a treatment 
framework combining immunomodulation and neuroregeneration.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.147874
PMID: 41005404

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


36. Neuropeptides. 2025 Sep 21;114:102563. doi: 10.1016/j.npep.2025.102563.
Online  ahead of print.

Modulation of neuropathological pathways by bioactive peptides and 
proteins/polypeptides: Targeting oxidative stress in neurodegenerative diseases.

Giri S(1), Chandra P(2).

Author information:
(1)Teerthanker Mahaveer College of Pharmacy, Teerthanker Mahaveer University, 
Moradabad-244001, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic address: 
susilgiri4@gmail.com.
(2)Teerthanker Mahaveer College of Pharmacy, Teerthanker Mahaveer University, 
Moradabad-244001, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic address: 
profpcpatel@gmail.com.

Neurodegenerative disorders (NDDs) pose a growing global health burden, 
primarily due to their progressive nature and the limited efficacy of existing 
treatments. Bioactive peptides and proteins/polypeptides, particularly those 
derived from dietary and natural sources, show promise in modulating 
neurobiological pathways central to neurodegeneration. This review aims to 
critically examine the neuroprotective roles of Bioactive peptides and 
proteins/polypeptides in NDDs, elucidating their mechanisms of action, potential 
therapeutic applications in conditions like Alzheimer's, Parkinso's disease, 
Huntington's disease, and others, as well as the trends in peptide-based 
therapeutics. Bioactive peptides and proteins/polyspeptides, such as NGF, BDNF, 
GDNF, Semax, and Exendin-4, have been found to modulate several critical 
mechanisms, including the reduction of oxidative stress (OS), inhibition of 
neuroinflammation, preservation of mitochondria, and enhancement of synaptic 
plasticity. These peptides have demonstrated efficacy in preclinical and 
early-phase clinical trials across a spectrum of NDDs. Delivery challenges, such 
as blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability and enzymatic degradation, have been 
acknowledged. Ongoing innovations in peptide engineering, nanoparticle-based 
delivery systems, CRISPR-assisted design, and AI-driven screening are addressing 
these limitations. By targeting multiple pathogenic mechanisms simultaneously, 
peptide-based therapeutics present a rational and innovative approach to NDD 
management. Their multifunctional action profiles and ability to target specific 
molecular pathways highlight their potential as next-generation neuroprotective 
agents. However, future clinical validation and advanced strategies are 
essential for translating these promising molecules into effective treatments.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.npep.2025.102563
PMID: 41004910

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


37. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep 26:13872877251378653. doi:
10.1177/13872877251378653.  Online ahead of print.

Targeted serum metabolomic profiling and machine learning approach in 
Alzheimer's disease using the Alzheimer's disease diagnostics clinical study 
(ADDIA) cohort.

Mukesha D(1)(2)(3), Sarter M(4), Dubray M(5), Durand F(5), Boutillier S(6), 
Pham-Van LD(6), Halter D(5), Kul S(5)(7), Blanc F(8)(9)(10), Gürvit H(10)(11), 
Demiralp T(10)(11), Dubois B(10)(12), Gabelle A(10)(13), Marizzoni M(10)(14), 
Frisoni GB(10)(15), Pasquier F(10)(16), Sellal F(10)(17)(18), Ivanoiu A(10)(19), 
Bier JC(10)(20), David R(10)(21), Démonet JF(10)(22), Magnin E(10)(23), Sacco 
G(2)(21), Firat H(1)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Firalis SA, 17 rue du fort, 68330 Huningue, France.
(2)Université Côte d'Azur, INSERM, CNRS, IPMC, France.
(3)CombiDiag (Combinatorial Early-Stage Diagnosis for Alzheimer's, Horizon-MSCA 
- GA#101071485), European Union.
(4)Firalis Molecular Precision SA, Huningue, France.
(5)Lodiag SAS, Huningue, France.
(6)Amoneta Diagnostics SAS, Huningue, France.
(7)Gaziantep University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Biostatistics, 
Gaziantep, Turkey.
(8)University of Strasbourg and CNRS, ICube Laboratory UMR 7357 and FMTS 
(Fédération de Médecine Translationnelle de Strasbourg), IMIS Team, Strasbourg, 
France.
(9)Geriatrics Division, University Hospitals of Strasbourg, CM2R (Research and 
Resources Memory Centre), Lewy Day Hospital and Geriatric Day Hospital, 
Strasbourg, France.
(10)ADDIA (H2020 - GA#674474) consortia, European Union.
(11)Istanbul University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Physiology, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(12)Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, France.
(13)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Montpellier, Université de Montpellier, 
Institut des Neurosciences, France.
(14)IRCCS Centro San Giovanni di Dio Fatebenefratelli, Brescia, Italy.
(15)University Hospital of Geneva, Switzerland.
(16)Centre Hospitalier Régional Universitaire de Lille, France.
(17)Hôpitaux Civils de Colmar, France.
(18)INSERM U-1329, Faculté de Médecine, Université de Strasbourg, France.
(19)Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, Brussels, Belgium.
(20)Hôpital Erasme, H.U.B., Université Libre de Bruxelles, Neurological 
Department, Belgium.
(21)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nice, France.
(22)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(23)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Besançon, France.

BackgroundMetabolic biomarkers can potentially be used for early diagnosis, 
prognostic risk stratification and/or early treatment and prevention of 
individuals at risk to develop Alzheimer's disease (AD).ObjectiveOur goal was to 
evaluate changes in metabolite concentration levels associated with AD to 
identify biomarkers that could support early and accurate diagnosis and 
therapeutic interventions by using targeted mass spectrometry and machine 
learning approaches.MethodsSerum samples collected from a total of 107 
individuals, including 55 individuals diagnosed with AD and 52 healthy controls 
(HC) enrolled previously to ADDIA cohort were analyzed using the biocrates 
AbsoluteIDQ® p400 HR kit metabolite and lipid panel. Several machine learning 
models including Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO), 
Partial Least Squares (PLS), Random Forest, and XGBoost were trained to classify 
AD and HC. Repeated cross-validation was used to ensure performance 
evaluation.ResultsThe LASSO and PLS models showed the strongest classification 
performance on the test set, achieving area under the ROC curve (AUC) values of 
0.84 and 0.90, respectively. A refined model based on only the top 5 metabolites 
maintained strong performance, and the inclusion of Apolipoprotein E (APOE) 
genotype information notably improved classification accuracy, particularly by 
reducing false negatives in AD cases.ConclusionsThese results highlight 
important metabolic signatures that could help to reduce misdiagnosis and 
support the development of metabolomic panels to detect AD. The combination of 
multiple serum metabolic biomarkers and APOE genotyping can significantly 
improve classification accuracy and potentially assist in making non-invasive, 
cost-effective diagnostic approach.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251378653
PMID: 41004623


38. Adv Neurobiol. 2025;44:317-334. doi: 10.1007/978-981-95-0066-6_17.

Neuroprotective and Neurotrophic Effects of Astaxanthin on the Brain.

Yook JS(1), Soya H(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Humanities and Social Sciences, Pohang University of Science and 
Technology (POSTECH), Pohang, Gyeongsangbuk-do, South Korea. 
yookjs@postech.ac.kr.
(2)Laboratory of Exercise Biochemistry and Neuroendocrinology, Institute of 
Health and Sport Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(3)Sport Neuroscience Division, Kokoro Division, Advanced Research Initiative 
for Human High Performance (ARIHHP), Institute of Health and Sport Sciences, 
University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(4)Center for Cybernics Research, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 
Japan.

Oxidative stress in the brain is associated with the development and progression 
of neurological disorders, posing antioxidant nutrients as an effective strategy 
for protecting neuronal cells and potentially slowing cognitive decline. 
Bioactive compounds from natural sources with antioxidant effects promote brain 
health. Among various natural compounds, astaxanthin (ASX), a potent red-pigment 
carotenoid found in various microorganisms and marine animals, is well 
recognized for its potential health benefits. In this review, we highlight the 
promising neuroprotective effects of ASX through cellular experiments and animal 
models. This review can provide novel insights on the therapeutic potential of 
ASX through its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic effects 
against neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's 
disease. In addition to demonstrating the neurotrophic effects of ASX on 
structural and functional changes in hippocampal neuronal plasticity, this 
review also discusses its synergistic potential with other interventions, such 
as exercise.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1007/978-981-95-0066-6_17
PMID: 41004107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Adv Neurobiol. 2025;44:297-316. doi: 10.1007/978-981-95-0066-6_16.

Exercise as a Therapeutic Intervention for Alzheimer's Disease.

Hwang DJ(1)(2), Cho JY(3).

Author information:
(1)Exercise Biochemistry Laboratory, Korea National Sport University, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Sport Science Institute, Korea National Sport University, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Exercise Biochemistry Laboratory, Korea National Sport University, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea. chojy86@knsu.ac.kr.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common form of dementia characterized by cognitive 
decline and abnormal accumulation of proximate neurotoxins in older adults. It 
accounts for up to 80% of all dementia cases. AD is not exclusively attributed 
to aging; rather, it involves complex and multifactorial brain changes that can 
lead to severe functional dependence and ultimately death. Although there has 
been progress in the development of novel treatments for AD, they are yet to 
yield disease-modifying effects. Early detection and therapeutic interventions 
are critical for preventing or delaying the onset of AD. We aimed to provide an 
overview of emerging evidence on physical exercise as a therapeutic strategy for 
the prevention and treatment of AD. Studies have demonstrated the potential of 
exercise in improving cognitive function, reducing the risk of AD, and slowing 
disease progression by promoting various neuroplastic changes. Therefore, 
regular exercise should be considered as a disease-modifying intervention for AD 
and included in comprehensive treatment protocols. Further studies are warranted 
to establish the optimal exercise regimen for individuals with AD; nonetheless, 
incorporating exercise into daily routines may contribute toward the prevention 
and management of AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1007/978-981-95-0066-6_16
PMID: 41004106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Adv Neurobiol. 2025;44:281-296. doi: 10.1007/978-981-95-0066-6_15.

The Effects of Exercise on Hippocampus-Based Cognitive Dysfunction in Type 2 
Diabetes Mellitus: A Possible Involvement of Hippocampal Monocarboxylate 
Transporter 2.

Shima T(1), Soya H(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Physical Education, Cooperative Faculty of 
Education, Gunma University, Maebashi, Gunma, Japan. ta-shima@gunma-u.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Exercise Biochemistry and Neuroendocrinology, Institute of 
Health and Sport Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(3)Sport Neuroscience Division, Kokoro Division, Advanced Research Initiative 
for Human High Performance (ARIHHP), Institute of Health and Sport Sciences, 
University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(4)Center for Cybernics Research, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 
Japan.

Cognitive dysfunction in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) poses a significant 
peril not only to compromised human well-being but also to the onset of 
dementia, Alzheimer's disease, and depression. Given the present research 
findings utilizing animal models, various potential biochemical mechanisms have 
been reported for hippocampus-based cognitive dysfunction in T2DM. This chapter 
focuses on the relationship between cognitive dysfunction in T2DM and 
dysregulation of the hippocampal astrocyte-neuron lactate shuttle, with specific 
emphasis on monocarboxylate transporter 2 (MCT2). Furthermore, it provides a 
summary of the evidence suggesting the potentiality of exercise as a viable 
therapeutic intervention, encompassing not solely glycemic control but also the 
amelioration of cognitive dysfunction in T2DM.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1007/978-981-95-0066-6_15
PMID: 41004105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 Sep 26;40(7):276. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01700-z.

From metabolic dysregulation to neurodegenerative pathology: the role of 
hyperglycemia, oxidative stress, and blood-brain barrier breakdown in T2D-driven 
Alzheimer's disease.

Raza A(1), Saleem S(1), Imran S(2), Rahman S(1), Haroon M(1), Razzaq A(1), 
Hussain A(3), Iqbal J(4), Sathian B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Rawalpindi Medical University, Rawalpindi, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Fauji Foundation Hospital, Rawalpindi, Pakistan.
(3)Punjab Medical College, Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(4)Hamad Medical Corporation, P.O Box 3050, Doha, Qatar. jiqbal3@hamad.qa.
(5)Hamad Medical Corporation, P.O Box 3050, Doha, Qatar.

Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) share common risk factors 
that can be seen through T2D nearly doubling an individual's likelihood of 
developing AD. Some AD patients show signs of metabolic dysfunction as well. 
This review focuses on the potential mechanisms associated with these two 
diseases, like insulin resistance, inflammation, oxidative damage, mitochondrial 
injury, and cell death. One of the notable elements in this connection is the 
"brain insulin resistance," most frequently named as "type 3 diabetes," which 
impairs glucose metabolism and facilitates amyloid beta (Aβ) plaque synthesis 
while reducing the action of insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE). Moreover, the 
overactivity of glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) also triggers taurine 
protein pathology. Raised concentrations of glucose in blood can produce 
advanced glycation end products (AGEs), which further exacerbate 
neuroinflammation in tandem with the mitigation of neurotoxic Aβ oligomers. 
Inflammation and subsequent damage to mitochondria lead to the dissolution of 
synapses. Current vascular insults include the breakdown of the blood-brain 
barrier (BBB) and decreased brain perfusion, along with other contributory 
factors to conditions conducive to neurotoxicity. Recently, novel therapies are 
emerging, including GLP-1 agonists, intranasal insulin, and mitochondrial 
antioxidants, that show surprising results for treating both conditions, but on 
the contrary, bioavailability and the timing of interventions remain a big 
challenge in the management of these diseases. Eventually, further research 
should center on understanding the mechanisms of integration along with the 
development of molecular biology, neuroimaging, and outcome-driven treatment 
strategies. Comprehensive strategies that exist between T2D-AD for integration 
and preservation of brain and metabolic health are addressed in this review.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01700-z
PMCID: PMC12474712
PMID: 41003796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


42. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 Sep 26. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-025-04545-6. Online ahead of print.

Regorafenib modulates glucose metabolism, insulin/GLP-1 signaling, and tau 
pathology in an STZ-induced model of Alzheimer's disease.

Salarinasab S(1), Asgari Taei A(2), Kaveh N(3), Karima S(1), Nikzamir A(4), 
Dargahi L(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Neurobiology Research Center, Institute of Neuroscience and Cognition, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuroscience and Cognition, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. nikzamirar@yahoo.com.
(5)Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuroscience and Cognition, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. l.dargahi@sbmu.ac.ir.

PURPOSE: Alzheimer's disease (AD), often described as "type 3 diabetes" due to 
its metabolic and neuroendocrine features, is marked by impaired glucose 
metabolism and insulin signaling. This study aimed to investigate whether 
regorafenib, a multi-kinase inhibitor, could modulate glucose metabolism, 
insulin/glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) pathways, and tau pathology in a 
streptozotocin (STZ)-induced rat model of AD.
METHODS: Male rats (n = 5-8/group) received intracerebroventricular STZ to 
induce AD-like pathology and were subsequently treated with regorafenib for two 
weeks. Cognitive function was assessed using the Y-maze and novel object 
recognition (NOR) tests. Glucose metabolism was evaluated via 18F-FDG micro-PET 
imaging and glucose tolerance tests. Serum and hippocampal markers of insulin, 
GLP-1, and tau phosphorylation were measured.
RESULTS: Regorafenib-treated rats exhibited significant improvement in 
recognition memory in the NOR test, while enhancement in spatial working memory 
in the Y-maze did not reach statistical significance. Regorafenib improved 
glucose metabolism in both the brain and periphery, as demonstrated by imaging 
and tolerance testing. Treatment significantly increased serum insulin and GLP-1 
levels, and reduced hippocampal hyperphosphorylated tau, although hippocampal 
gene expression of insulin and GLP-1 signaling pathways remained unchanged.
CONCLUSION: Regorafenib may provide neuroprotective benefits in AD by improving 
glucose metabolism and reducing tau pathology. These findings suggest 
regorafenib as a potential novel therapeutic strategy for AD, though further 
research is needed to confirm its efficacy, assess long-term outcomes, and 
elucidate underlying mechanisms.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-025-04545-6
PMID: 41003702

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


43. J Intell. 2025 Sep 11;13(9):118. doi: 10.3390/jintelligence13090118.

Objective Assessment of Cognition for Detecting Subjective Cognitive Decline Is 
More Accurate than Subjective Estimations: The Role of Trait Affect.

Frantzi N(1), Moraitou D(1)(2), Emmanouilidou E(1), Poptsi E(2)(3), Tsardoulias 
E(4), Symeonidis AL(4), Papantoniou G(5), Sofologi M(5), Masoura E(1), Tsentidou 
G(1)(2)(3), Katsouri IG(6), Tsolaki M(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Psychology, Department of Cognition, Brain and Behavior, School 
of Psychology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (AUTh), 54124 Thessaloniki, 
Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Center for Interdisciplinary 
Research and Innovation, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (CIRI-AUTh), 54124 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(3)Greek Association of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders (GAADRD), 
Petrou Sindika 13 Str., 54643 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(4)School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, 
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (AUTh), 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(5)Laboratory of Psychology, Department of Early Childhood Education, School of 
Education, University of Ioannina, 45110 Ioannina, Greece.
(6)Department of Occupational Therapy, Faculty of Health and Caring Sciences, 
University of West Attica, 12243 Athens, Greece.

The early identification of cognitive decline is crucial for well-timed 
intervention and diagnosis, particularly in the context of preclinical 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we investigated the complex interplay 
between trait affect, objective cognitive performance, and subjective memory 
estimations in a sample of 105 older adults. Using path analysis, we aimed to 
determine whether trait affect and objective cognitive control abilities predict 
individuals' subjective perceptions of their own memory abilities. The results 
revealed that both positive and negative trait affect significantly predicted 
subjective memory estimations, while objective cognitive control performance did 
not significantly predict these estimations. These findings highlight a crucial 
dissociation between objective and subjective cognitive measures. Therefore, the 
present results underscore the critical importance of complementing 
self-reported cognitive estimations, which can be biased by stable emotional 
dispositions, with objective cognitive tools like the R4Alz-pc (preclinical) 
index. This approach enables a more accurate evaluation of cognitive health in 
advancing age, especially for the early detection of subtle dysfunction in 
preclinical AD.

DOI: 10.3390/jintelligence13090118
PMCID: PMC12470360
PMID: 41003258

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


44. J Pers Med. 2025 Sep 15;15(9):437. doi: 10.3390/jpm15090437.

Anti-Amyloid Monoclonal Antibodies for Alzheimer's Disease: Evidence, ARIA Risk, 
and Precision Patient Selection.

Alkhalifa AE(1), Al Mokhlf A(2), Ali H(3), Al-Ghraiybah NF(1), Syropoulou V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Drug Discovery and Development, Harrison School of Pharmacy, 
Pharmacy Research Building, Auburn University, Auburn, AL 36849, USA.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Science and Technology, Sana'a 15034, 
Yemen.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, Zonguldak Bülent Ecevit University, Zonguldak 67100, 
Türkiye.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia, pathologically 
defined by extracellular amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques and intracellular tau 
neurofibrillary tangles. Recent U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
approvals of anti-amyloid monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) aducanumab, lecanemab, 
and donanemab represent the first disease-modifying therapies for early AD. 
These therapies have generated both optimism and controversy due to modest 
efficacy and safety concerns, particularly amyloid-related imaging abnormalities 
(ARIAs). This review synthesizes current evidence on the efficacy, safety, and 
biomarker-guided use of anti-Aβ mAbs in AD. Methods: We searched PubMed, Scopus, 
Web of Science, and Google Scholar to 31 July 2025 for studies on anti-amyloid 
mAbs in AD. Sources included peer-reviewed articles and regulatory reports. The 
extracted data covered study design, population, amyloid confirmation, dosing, 
outcomes, biomarkers, ARIA incidence, and management. Results: Anti-amyloid mAbs 
consistently demonstrated robust amyloid clearance and modest slowing of 
clinical decline in early symptomatic AD. Differences emerged across agents in 
efficacy signals, safety profiles, and regulatory outcomes. Lecanemab and 
donanemab showed more consistent cognitive benefits, while aducanumab yielded 
mixed findings, leading to its withdrawal. ARIAs were the most frequent adverse 
events, occurring more often in APOE ε4 carriers and typically during early 
treatment. Biomarker analyses also revealed favorable downstream effects, 
including reductions in phosphorylated tau and markers of astroglial injury, 
supporting engagement of disease biology. Conclusions: Anti-amyloid mAbs provide 
proof of concept for AD modification, with the greatest benefit in early disease 
stages and moderate tau burden. Optimal use requires biomarker confirmation of 
the amyloid, careful tau staging, and genetic risk assessment. While limitations 
remain, these therapies represent a pivotal step toward precision neurology and 
may serve as a foundation for multimodal strategies targeting tau, 
neuroinflammation, and vascular pathology.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm15090437
PMCID: PMC12470750
PMID: 41003140

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


45. J Pers Med. 2025 Sep 2;15(9):413. doi: 10.3390/jpm15090413.

Bridging Epilepsy and Cognitive Impairment: Insights from EEG and Clinical 
Observations in a Retrospective Case Series.

Kalyvas AC(1), Smyrni N(1), Ioannidis P(1), Grigoriadis N(1), Afrantou T(1).

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Neurology, AHEPA University Hospital, Aristotle University 
of Thessaloniki, Stilponos Kyriakidi Street 1, 54636 Thessaloniki, Greece.

Background: Epilepsy and cognitive impairment frequently coexist, yet their 
relationship remains complex and insufficiently understood. This study aims to 
explore the clinical and electrophysiological features of patients presenting 
with both conditions in order to identify patterns that may inform more accurate 
diagnosis and effective management within a personalized medicine framework. 
Methods: We retrospectively analyzed 14 patients with late-onset epilepsy and 
coexisting cognitive impairment, including mild cognitive impairment and 
Alzheimer's disease. Clinical history, cognitive assessments, neuroimaging, and 
electroencephalographic recordings were reviewed. EEG abnormalities, seizure 
types, and treatment responses were systematically documented. Results: Patients 
were categorized into two groups: (1) those with established Alzheimer's disease 
who later developed epilepsy and (2) those in whom epilepsy preceded cognitive 
impairment. Temporal lobe involvement was a key feature, with EEG abnormalities 
frequently localizing to the frontal-temporal electrodes and manifesting as 
background slowing, focal multiform slow waves, and epileptiform discharges. 
Levetiracetam was the most commonly used antiseizure medication, and it was 
effective across both groups. Conclusions: This case series highlights the value 
of EEG in characterizing patients with subclinical and overt epileptic activity 
and cognitive impairment comorbidity. The inclusion of a substantial number of 
cases with documented EEG abnormalities provides valuable insight into the 
interplay between epilepsy and neurodegenerative diseases. By integrating 
neurophysiological data with clinical and cognitive trajectories, this work 
aligns with the principles of precision medicine, facilitating a more 
comprehensive evaluation and tailored management approach. Further longitudinal 
studies are required to validate prognostic markers and guide optimal 
therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm15090413
PMCID: PMC12470687
PMID: 41003116

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


46. Diseases. 2025 Sep 22;13(9):310. doi: 10.3390/diseases13090310.

Unraveling Dual Cognitive Disorders: A Case Report and Literature Review on 
Marchiafava-Bignami Disease and Possible Alzheimer's Disease.

Iliuta FP(1)(2), Manea M(1)(2), Mares AM(1)(2), Varlam CI(2), Ciobanu CA(3), 
Ciobanu AM(2)(4), Lacau RM(1), Manea MC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Discipline of Psychiatry, Faculty of 
Dental Medicine, "Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 010221 
Bucharest, Romania.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, "Prof. Dr. Alexandru Obregia" Clinical Hospital of 
Psychiatry, 041914 Bucharest, Romania.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, "Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
010221 Bucharest, Romania.
(4)Neurosciences Department, Discipline of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, 
"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 020021 Bucharest, Romania.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia, particularly in 
those aged 65 and older. Dementia can also occur under age 45, known as 
young-onset dementia (YOD), although this is rarer. Marchiafava-Bignami disease 
(MBD) is a rare disorder characterized by demyelination and necrosis of the 
corpus callosum, primarily affecting individuals with chronic alcohol use. We 
present the case of a 49-year-old woman admitted for psychiatric and 
neurological evaluation due to a multidomain cognitive disorder with a sudden 
onset approximately four years prior, which progressed rapidly, resulting in 
complete dependence on others for daily activities. Her medical history included 
moderate depression, chronic alcohol consumption, and professional exhaustion. 
Psychological assessments revealed severe neurocognitive impairment. MRI scans 
highlighted significant bilateral parietal atrophy, hippocampal atrophy, and 
demyelinating lesions in the corpus callosum, consistent with MBD. Despite 
initial inconsistencies in biomarkers, later tests showed elevated tau protein, 
phosphorylated tau, and amyloid-beta, supporting an AD diagnosis. Clinical 
presentation, combined with neuroimaging findings and chronic alcohol 
consumption history, led to a diagnosis of AD with young onset and chronic MBD. 
This case illustrates the complexities involved in diagnosing overlapping 
neurodegenerative disorders. The coexistence of MBD and AD complicates the 
treatment plan, requiring a multifaceted approach addressing both 
neurodegenerative and nutritional aspects.

DOI: 10.3390/diseases13090310
PMCID: PMC12468820
PMID: 41002746

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


47. Diseases. 2025 Sep 16;13(9):305. doi: 10.3390/diseases13090305.

Polymorphism of Melanocortin Receptor Genes-Association with Inflammatory Traits 
and Diseases.

Bardhan M(1)(2), Anand A(3), Javed A(4), Chilo MA(5), Khan N(6), Garg T(7), 
Surana A(8), Huang H(9), Samim MM(10), Suresh V(11), Khare A(12), Menon B(13), 
Kundu T(14).

Author information:
(1)The John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics, Miller School of Medicine, 
University of Miami, Miami, FL 33101, USA.
(2)The Dr. John T. Macdonald Foundation, Department of Human Genetics, Miller 
School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, FL 33101, USA.
(3)BP Koirala Institute of Health Sciences, Dharan 56700, Nepal.
(4)University College of Medical Sciences, Dilshad Garden, Delhi 110095, India.
(5)UAB Department of Family and Community Medicine and Cahaba Medical Care, 
Birmingham, AL 35205, USA.
(6)Jinnah Sindh Medical University, Karachi 75510, Pakistan.
(7)Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh 160030, India.
(8)St. Vincent Hospital, Worcester, MA 01608, USA.
(9)Faculty of Medicine and Health Science, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, 
D02 YN77 Dublin, Ireland.
(10)Department of Neurology, National Institute of Mental Health and 
Neurosciences, Bangalore 560030, India.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Warneford Hospital, 
Warneford Ln, Headington, Oxford OX3 7JX, UK.
(12)All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Gorakhpur 273008, India.
(13)Department of Neurology, Apollo Specialty Hospitals, Nellore 524004, India.
(14)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal Tata Medical College Jamshedpur, Manipal 
Academy of Higher Education, Manipal 576104, India.

Melanocortin receptors (MCRs) are responsible for various functions ranging from 
skin pigmentation, regulation of appetite, stress response and cognition, 
steroid synthesis, and energy balance to cellular regeneration and 
immunomodulation. The genetic polymorphism with tissue distribution ranging from 
the brain, limbic system, and adrenal cortex to neutrophils, monocytes, and 
macrophages is evident in MCRs. The mutations in MC1R, MC2R, MC3R, and MC4R 
genes are associated with risk of melanoma, familial glucocorticoid deficiency, 
obesity, and type 2 diabetes mellitus, respectively. Meanwhile, MC1R, MC2R, and 
MC5R genes are involved in the risk of major depressive disorder. Melanocortin 
receptors are involved in different inflammatory disorders, i.e., atopic 
dermatitis, autoimmune uveitis, sarcoidosis, respiratory diseases, multiple 
sclerosis, scleroderma, inflammatory bowel disease, amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, arthritis, and reperfusion injury. Several newer 
therapeutic agents related to MCRs have numerous advantages over the current 
anti-inflammatory drugs, demonstrating therapeutic relevance. Among them, α-MSH 
analogs play a role in atopic dermatitis and scleroderma, and MC1R agonist 
Dersimelagon has shown effectiveness in systemic sclerosis. The FDA has recently 
approved the repository corticotropin injection (RCI) to treat sarcoidosis. The 
FDA has also approved various melanocortin agonists, i.e., Bremelanotide, 
Afamelanotide, and Setmelanotide, for the treatment of hypoactive sexual desire 
disorder, Erythropoietic protoporphyria, and obesity, due to 
pro-opiomelanocortin and leptin receptor deficiency, respectively. Therefore, 
this review aims to summarize the function and genetic polymorphism of 
melanocortin receptors, regulatory pathways involving MCRs, and the existing 
evidence of the prime effect of MCRs on inflammatory responses via different 
mechanisms and their potential therapeutic use in inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/diseases13090305
PMCID: PMC12468675
PMID: 41002740

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


48. Cells. 2025 Sep 21;14(18):1474. doi: 10.3390/cells14181474.

PF-04691502, a PI3K/mTOR Dual Inhibitor, Ameliorates AD-like Pathology in a 
Mouse Model of AD.

Lanza M(1), Basilotta R(1), Caccamo A(1), Casili G(1), Repici A(1), Oddo S(1), 
Esposito E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical, Biological, Pharmaceutical and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Messina, Viale Ferdinando Stagno D'Alcontres 31, 98166 
Messina, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that significantly 
impacts the lives of patients and their families. The pathological features of 
AD include the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) and Tau, which disrupt neuronal 
function and communication, ultimately leading to neuronal loss and brain 
atrophy. Efforts to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying these 
pathological changes have led to advancements in diagnostic techniques and 
potential therapeutic interventions. However, the complexity of AD necessitates 
further research to develop more effective treatments and, ideally, preventive 
measures. Extensive research suggests that diminishing mTOR signaling increases 
lifespan and health span across various species. Increased PI3K/mTOR signaling 
has been linked to the progression of AD pathology, leading to neuronal 
degeneration and impairments in cognitive function. In this study, we explored 
the therapeutic potential of PF-04691502, a dual PI3K/mTOR inhibitor, in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like pathology using male and female B6.Cg-Tg(APPswe, 
PSEN1dE9)85Dbo/Mmjax mice (APP/PS1), a well-established transgenic model of AD. 
Eighteen-month-old APP/PS1 and wild-type mice received oral administration of 
PF-04691502 at a dose of 1 mg/kg for 12 weeks. Following the treatment period, 
spatial learning and memory were evaluated using the Morris water maze. 
Subsequently, the mice brains were collected for neuropathological and 
biochemical assessments. Our findings showed that PF-04691502 enhanced cognitive 
performance in APP/PS1 mice and significantly reduced insoluble Aβ accumulation 
in the brain. Mechanistically, these effects were associated with enhanced 
autophagy induction. Treatment with PF-04691502 increased the LC3-II/LC3-I 
ratio, upregulated Beclin-1, and elevated LAMP-2 levels, indicative of 
stimulated autophagosome formation and lysosomal activity. Overall, these 
preclinical results suggest that PF-04691502 holds promise as a potential 
therapeutic agent for AD and other aging-related neurodegenerative diseases 
involving mTOR pathway dysregulation.

DOI: 10.3390/cells14181474
PMCID: PMC12468398
PMID: 41002439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


49. Cells. 2025 Sep 11;14(18):1424. doi: 10.3390/cells14181424.

The Diagnostic and Therapeutic Potential of Oligonucleotide Aptamers in 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Katsipis G(1)(2), Tzekaki EE(1)(2), Iasonidou S(1), Pantazaki AA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Neurodegenerative Diseases (LND), Center for Interdisciplinary 
Research and Innovation, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 57001 Thermi, 
Greece.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the neurodegenerative condition with the outmost 
future challenges, with timely diagnosis and treatment being the most urgent. 
Discovery of more and more biomarkers is widely attempted; however, current 
diagnostic methods often lack sensitivity, specificity, and accessibility. 
Nucleotide aptamers-short, highly specific oligonucleotide or ligands-are now 
recognized as highly promising molecular agents for both measuring and targeting 
key AD biomarkers, with the most notorious being amyloid-beta (Aβ), tau protein, 
and disease-associated microRNAs (miRNAs). This review provides a comprehensive 
analysis of nucleotide aptamers related to AD, detailing their mechanisms of 
selection, recent advances in biosensing applications, and therapeutic 
potential. Aptamers, targeting the most significant biomarkers of AD, are mainly 
discussed, as well as ones interacting with novel, promising biomarkers, with a 
special aim on miRNAs. Additionally, aptamers are compared with conventional 
antibody-based approaches, highlighting their advantages in terms of stability, 
cost-effectiveness, and ease of modification. By elucidating the role of 
aptamers in AD diagnosis and treatment, this review underscores their promise as 
next-generation tools for precision medicine and neurodegenerative disease 
management.

DOI: 10.3390/cells14181424
PMCID: PMC12468609
PMID: 41002390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


50. Cells. 2025 Sep 10;14(18):1418. doi: 10.3390/cells14181418.

Imaging of Proteinopathies in the Brains of Parkinsonian Disorders.

Higuchi M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Neuroimaging Center, Institute for Quantum Medical Science, National 
Institutes for Quantum Science and Technology, Chiba 263-8555, Japan.
(2)Neuroetiology and Diagnostic Science, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka 
Metropolitan University, Osaka 545-8585, Japan.

Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), frontotemporal 
lobar degeneration (FTLD), and α-synucleinopathies-including Parkinson's disease 
(PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and multiple system atrophy (MSA)-are 
characterized by the accumulation of misfolded protein aggregates. Advances in 
positron emission tomography (PET) imaging have enabled in vivo visualization of 
these pathologies, particularly tau and α-synuclein fibrils, facilitating early 
diagnosis and differential classification. Tau PET tracers such as 
18F-florzolotau have demonstrated robust imaging of both AD-type and 4-repeat 
tauopathies, including atypical parkinsonian syndromes in FTLD such as 
progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration. Cryo-electron 
microscopy has elucidated the molecular interactions underlying tracer binding, 
highlighting hydrophobic grooves in cross-βstructures as binding components 
commonly present in multiple tau fibril types. For α-synucleinopathies, new 
tracers with a modified cross-β-binding scaffold, including 18F-SPAL-T-06 and 
18F-C05-05, have shown promise in detecting MSA-related pathology and, more 
recently, midbrain pathology in PD and DLB. However, sensitive detection of 
pathologies in early PD/DLB stages remains a challenge. The integration of 
high-resolution PET technologies and structurally optimized ligands may enable 
earlier and more accurate detection of protein aggregates, supporting both 
clinical decision-making and the development of targeted disease-modifying 
therapies.

DOI: 10.3390/cells14181418
PMCID: PMC12468588
PMID: 41002384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M. H. holds and has filed patents related to tau 
and α-synuclein imaging agents. The license of the tau imaging agent patent has 
been granted to APRINOIA Therapeutics Inc.


51. J Med Chem. 2025 Sep 26. doi: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.5c00917. Online ahead of 
print.

The Pathological Nexus and Multipronged Approaches to Mitigate Ferroptosis and 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Moorthy H(1), Sain S(1), Padhi D(1), Govindaraju T(1).

Author information:
(1)Bioorganic Chemistry Laboratory, New Chemistry Unit, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre 
for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560064, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifaceted neurodegenerative disorder and a 
leading cause of dementia. Although the amyloid cascade is a defining feature of 
AD pathology, the precise mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration remain 
unclear, and current therapeutics targeting this have shown limited efficacy. 
Emerging evidence implicates ferroptosis, an iron-dependent, lipid peroxidation 
(LPO)-driven form of regulated cell death, as a contributing factor in 
AD-related neuronal loss. Core biomarkers of ferroptosis, including iron 
dyshomeostasis, LPO, and reduced antioxidant capacity, closely align with 
hallmark features of AD suggesting a pathological nexus further supported by 
clinical evidence. While the use of LPO inhibitors and iron chelators has shown 
promising outcomes, there remains a significant gap in targeting key ferroptosis 
regulators, such as GPX4 and FSP1, which hold strong therapeutic potential in 
AD. This perspective explores their pathological interplay and offers strategic 
insights for the development of hybrid multifunctional therapeutic molecules to 
synergistically target these interconnected pathways.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.5c00917
PMID: 41002054


52. JACS Au. 2025 Aug 28;5(9):4346-4360. doi: 10.1021/jacsau.5c00721. eCollection
 2025 Sep 22.

A Metal-Peptide Framework as a Nanozyme for the Attenuation of Amyloid‑β 
Aggregation and Reactive Oxygen Species.

Zhang Z(1), Lv M(1), Xu J(1), Liu Y(1), Qin J(2), Fan Z(1)(2), Du J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Polymeric Materials, School of Materials Science and 
Engineering, Tongji University, 4800 Caoan Road, Shanghai 201804, China.
(2)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Shanghai Key Laboratory of 
Anesthesiology and Brain Functional Modulation, Clinical Research Center for 
Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, Translational Research Institute of 
Brain and Brain-Like Intelligence, Shanghai Fourth People's Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai 200434, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible neurodegenerative disease 
characterized by abnormal performance in memory, cognition, and language, and it 
imposes a heavy economic burden worldwide. Amyloidosis and oxidative stress are 
highly associated with AD progression, yet limited clinical drugs are available 
at present. Nanozymes exhibit diverse enzyme-mimetic activities and have 
attracted widespread attention as a promising alternative candidate for 
scavenging reactive oxygen species to maintain the oxidation-antioxidation 
balance in cells. Neurotoxic amyloid-β (Aβ) aggregation is also a critical event 
in AD pathology. The development of dual-targeting nanomaterials with 
antiamyloidosis ability and enzyme-mimicking activity is expected to be a 
promising strategy for the treatment of amyloidosis and reactive oxygen 
species-mediated AD progression. Here, bimetallic-peptide framework nanozymes 
(CuZn-PEP NZs) with amyloid-β (Aβ) attenuating ability, multiple 
enzyme-mimicking properties, and broad-spectrum reactive oxygen species 
scavenging capacity were endowed to inhibit Aβ fibrillization, disaggregate Aβ 
fibrils, and scavenge Aβ fibril-induced reactive oxygen species. An obvious 
inhibitory effect on Aβ fibrillization and a disaggregation effect on Aβ fibrils 
were observed after treatment with CuZn-PEP NZs. Meanwhile, the cytotoxicity of 
Aβ fibrils toward PC12 cells was significantly reduced by CuZn-PEP NZs. 
Meanwhile, CuZn-PEP NZs with multiple redox pairs exhibit superoxide dismutase, 
catalase, and glutathione peroxidase-mimicking enzyme properties simultaneously, 
which further display cytoprotective effects against Aβ fibril-induced reactive 
oxygen species and mitochondrial damage. Besides, cellular studies verified that 
CuZn-PEP NZs possess excellent biocompatibility and blood-brain barrier 
penetration capacity. Overall, these bimetallic-peptide framework nanozymes 
represent a promising perspective for attenuation of amyloid-β aggregation and 
reactive oxygen species simultaneously, which highlights the potential of 
nanozymes for the treatment of amyloidosis and reactive oxygen species-mediated 
AD progression.

© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/jacsau.5c00721
PMCID: PMC12458022
PMID: 41001643


53. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Sep 15:2025.09.15.25335782. doi: 
10.1101/2025.09.15.25335782.

An Indicator Cell Assay-based Multivariate Blood Test for Early Detection of 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Qi YS(1), Miller LR(2), D'Ascenzo MD(1), Berndt JD(1), Whitney GA(1), Duffy 
F(2), Danziger SA(2)(3), Peskind E(4)(5), Li G(5)(6), Masters CL(7)(8), Fowler 
C(7)(8); Australian Imaging Biomarkers and Lifestyle Study of Ageing (AIBL) 
Research Group; Lipshutz R(1), Aitchison JD(2)(3), Smith JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)PreCyte, Inc., Seattle, WA, USA.
(2)Seattle Children's Research Institute, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, WA, USA.
(4)Northwest Network (VISN-20) Mental Illness, Research, Education, and Clinical 
Center (MIRECC), VA Puget Sound, Seattle, WA, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(6)Geriatric Research, Education, and Clinical Center, Veterans Affairs (VA) 
Puget Sound Health Care System (VA Puget Sound), Seattle, WA, USA.
(7)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.
(8)University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

The indicator cell assay platform (iCAP) is a novel next-generation approach for 
blood-based diagnostics that uses standardized cells as biosensors to amplify 
weak disease signals in blood. We developed an Alzheimer's disease iCAP 
(AD-iCAP) for early detection at the mild cognitive impairment/mild dementia 
stages. To develop the assay, patient plasma is incubated with standardized 
neurons, which transduce complex circulating signals into gene-expression 
readouts used to train multivariate disease classifiers via machine learning. We 
applied systems biology analyses (e.g., GSEA, PCA, correlation/network analyses) 
to optimize analytical and computational parameters, and then evaluated a locked 
model in a study with retrospectively collected samples. Performance was AUC 
0.64 (95% CI 0.51-0.78, n=82) on an independent external-validation set and AUC 
0.77 (95% CI 0.57-0.96, n=23) on a blind set, supporting prospective 
confirmation in a larger cohort. To overcome pre-analytical noise and reduce 
bias in feature-selection, modeling was done using a fixed panel of 84 candidate 
genes chosen a priori from an external AD-iCAP dataset generated with 5XFAD 
mouse plasma. Despite using no AD-specific prior knowledge in this approach, the 
assay readout was enriched for Alzheimer's-relevant pathways, including 
cholesterol biosynthesis, synaptic structure/neurotransmission and PIK3/AKT 
activation. Because the assay senses a multivalent cellular response, which is 
orthogonal to circulating amyloid or tau measurements, AD-iCAP may complement 
existing blood tests, and its multivariate readout offers a path to 
precision-medicine applications such as patient stratification for treatment 
response.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.09.15.25335782
PMCID: PMC12458623
PMID: 41001460

Conflict of interest statement: The funders provided support in the form of 
research materials and salaries but had no role in the study’s design, data 
collection, analysis, decision to publish, or manuscript preparation. JJS, RJL, 
JDB, MDD, YQ, and GAW are current or past employees of PreCyte Inc. 
Additionally, JJS, JDA, JDB, MDD, YQ, RJL, SAD, GAW, and LRM have equity 
interests in PreCyte Inc., which is developing products related to the research 
described in this publication. The commercial affiliation with PreCyte Inc. does 
not alter our adherence to journal policies on data and material sharing. All 
other authors declare no competing interests. EP, GL, CLM, and AF report no 
conflicts of interest.


54. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Sep 19:2025.09.17.25336007. doi: 
10.1101/2025.09.17.25336007.

Continuum of Core 1 Biomarkers in Preclinical Alzheimer's Disease.

Digma LA(1), Young CB(1), Winer JR(1), Cody KA(1), Younes K(1), Sheng 
J(1)(2)(3), Insel PS(4), Rissman RA(5), Sperling R(6), Mormino EC(1)(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(3)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of California 
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(5)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine of the 
University of Southern California, San Diego, CA, USA.
(6)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Molecular Imaging Program at Stanford (MIPS), Stanford University, Stanford, 
CA, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Biological Staging for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in 
clinically unimpaired (CU) individuals is critical for early detection efforts. 
In this study, we evaluated whether Core 1 biomarkers (plasma ptau-217 and 
amyloid-PET) within Biological Stage A, the earliest biological stage of AD, 
predicts progression of downstream biomarkers and cognition.
METHODS: We used baseline plasma ptau-217 and amyloid-PET, and longitudinal 
tau-PET, atrophy, and cognition data from the recently completed Anti-Amyloid 
Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer's (A4) Study. PET data were used to identify 
participants within AD Biological Stage A (amyloid-PET positive and medial 
temporal tau-PET negative). Within these Stage A participants, linear mixed 
effects models were used to examine associations between continuous baseline 
levels of plasma p-tau217 and amyloid-PET burden with longitudinal regional 
tau-PET, atrophy, and cognition. We additionally evaluated whether continuous 
p-tau217 and amyloid-PET burden within this group was associated with higher 
risk of progression to Biological Stage B+ (tau-PET positive in the medial 
temporal lobe). In our statistical models, we included covariates for age, sex, 
and APOE4 carriage.
RESULTS: Of 335 A4 participants with complete biomarker data, 222 were 
identified as being in Biological Stage A. Among Biological Stage A CU, 
continuous baseline plasma p-tau217 and amyloid-PET burden were independently 
associated with faster tau-PET accumulation and atrophy in AD-relevant regions 
(mean follow-up time for both tau-PET and MRI: 4.2 years), as well as faster 
cognitive decline (mean follow-up time for PACC: 5.7 years) (all p<0.05). Plasma 
p-tau217 and amyloid-PET burden were independently associated with higher risk 
of progression to Biological Stage B+.
DISCUSSION: In CU individuals, early changing AD biomarkers during the initial 
stage of AD (Biological Stage A) provide prognostic information of downstream 
markers of disease. Evaluation of the utility of these continuous measures in a 
real-world setting is warranted.
CLINICAL TRIAL INFORMATION: The A4 study was submitted for registration to 
clinicaltrials.gov on December 6th, 2023. The study is registered with ID 
NCT02008357. Screening and data collection for the study began in April 2014.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.09.17.25336007
PMCID: PMC12458534
PMID: 41001450


55. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Sep 18:2025.09.16.25335925. doi: 
10.1101/2025.09.16.25335925.

Intervention on Modifiable Lifestyle and Physiological Factors via Variational 
Autoencoder Reveals Changes in Functional Connectivity-Mediated Risk for 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Orlichenko A(1), Ding S(1), Johns E(1), Gu Z(1), Tian X(1), Li X(2), Zhao Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Yale School of Public Health, 300 George St., 
New Haven, CT 06511, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Tulane University, 201 Lindy Clairborne 
Boggs Center, 6823 St. Charles Avenue, New Orleans, LA 70118, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains without effective treatment, largely due to the 
fact that clinical symptoms emerge only after decades of silent pathological 
progression. It is urgently needed to identify modifiable risk factors in 
earlier life stages, when preventive interventions may still be effective. 
Functional connectivity (FC) has emerged as a promising neuromarker for both 
neurodegenerative processes and behavioral traits, making it a potential bridge 
between early-life health profiles and late-life AD risk. In this work, we 
introduce a novel integrative framework that models how early-life lifestyle and 
physiological factors influence AD risk through their impact on brain FC. Our 
approach combines a modified variational autoencoder (VAE) that simulates FC 
changes under interventions with a predictive model that estimates AD risk based 
on FC patterns. This design enables training of the generative and predictive 
components under different datasets and populations, with FC acting as the 
bridge between early-life modifiable factors and late-life disease risk. 
Applying our framework to data from the Human Connectome Project (HCP), UK 
Biobank (UKB), and Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), we 
validate its ability to capture known risk factors, such as age and polygenic 
risk score, on FC-mediated AD risk. We also identify earlier-life modifiable 
factors including tobacco use, sleep quality, physical activity and weight/BMI 
that significantly influence AD risk. Notably, we observe a U-shaped 
relationship between blood pressure and AD risk, and highlight the brain visual 
and somatomotor networks as key mediators of risk through FC. Our approach 
provides a powerful tool for investigating the effect pathways linking 
early-life interventions to neurodegenerative outcomes, with broad applicability 
to other brain-related disorders.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.09.16.25335925
PMCID: PMC12458609
PMID: 41001445

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interests The authors 
report no competing interests.


56. Cureus. 2025 Aug 24;17(8):e90907. doi: 10.7759/cureus.90907. eCollection 2025
 Aug.

Motivation Through Treatment: How Lecanemab Initiation Facilitated Alcohol 
Cessation and Cognitive Stability in a Patient With Early Alzheimer's Disease.

Uchida K(1), Maruta J(2), Kurozumi H(2), Inoue K(2).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry, Osaka City Kosaiin Hospital, Osaka, JPN.
(2)Neuropsychiatry, Osaka Metropolitan University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka, JPN.

Excessive alcohol use can complicate the management of individuals in the early 
stages of cognitive decline, as memory impairment may limit the awareness of 
harmful habits and reduce motivation for behavioral change. Anti-amyloid 
therapies such as lecanemab have recently become available for early Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), but their use in individuals with a history of heavy alcohol 
consumption remains uncommon. Furthermore, the combined impact of abstinence and 
disease-modifying therapy on clinical outcomes is not well understood. We report 
the case of a woman in her early 80s initially diagnosed with mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI), who later progressed to mild AD. Despite repeated counseling, 
she had persistent difficulties reducing alcohol intake. As her cognitive 
symptoms worsened, psychiatric intervention and inpatient care were needed to 
achieve alcohol cessation. With structured support and lifestyle changes, 
including the involvement of her daughter, her daily routine stabilized. 
Following the initiation of lecanemab therapy, she maintained abstinence, 
experienced no significant treatment-related adverse effects, and showed no 
imaging abnormalities on follow-up MRI. Her Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) 
scores improved after the combined lifestyle and pharmacologic interventions. 
This case suggests that lifestyle stabilization and lecanemab therapy can work 
synergistically in individuals with early AD and prior excessive alcohol use. 
The initiation of regular infusions may have provided both therapeutic and 
motivational support for maintaining abstinence and daily structure.

Copyright © 2025, Uchida et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.90907
PMCID: PMC12459869
PMID: 41001289

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


57. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Sep 24;11(3):e70160. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70160. 
eCollection 2025 Jul-Sep.

Clinically meaningful changes in cognitive and functional outcomes in a 
population-based study of cognitive aging.

Aakre JA(1), Castillo AM(1), Graff-Radford J(2), Vemuri P(3), Machulda MM(4), 
Jack CR Jr(3), Knopman DS(2), Petersen RC(1)(2), Vassilaki M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences Mayo Clinic Rochester Minnesota 
USA.
(2)Department of Neurology Mayo Clinic Rochester Minnesota USA.
(3)Department of Radiology Mayo Clinic Rochester Minnesota USA.
(4)Department of Psychology & Psychiatry Mayo Clinic Rochester Minnesota USA.

INTRODUCTION: Research is limited regarding meaningful change thresholds for 
individual patients on clinical outcome assessments (COAs) frequently used in 
clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD), 
particularly in population-based studies early in the disease course.
METHODS: There were 646 study participants in the population-based Mayo Clinic 
Study of Aging (MCSA), 54-99 years old (47% females), who developed the clinical 
syndromes of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) with complete data to establish 
clinically meaningful within-patient change thresholds in cognitive and 
functional COAs.
RESULTS: Using the diagnosis of incident MCI as the anchor, mean (95% confidence 
interval [CI]) annualized estimates of change were: Clinical Dementia Rating 
(CDR) scale Sum of Boxes (SB) 0.49 (0.43, 0.55), Mini-Mental State Examination 
(MMSE) -1.01 (-1.12, -0.91), and Functional Activities Questionnaire (FAQ) score 
1.04 (0.82, 1.26).
DISCUSSION: This study provides within-patient estimates of clinically 
meaningful change early in disease progression in a community-based sample.
HIGHLIGHTS: We studied incident mild cognitive impairment (MCI) participants 
from a population-based study.Within-patient change thresholds were estimated 
for clinical outcome assessments (COAs) used in clinical trials for Alzheimer's 
disease and related dementia (ADRD).These estimates may be used to plan and 
evaluate clinical trials involving disease-modifying therapies (DMTs).

© 2025 Mayo Clinic. Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70160
PMCID: PMC12457950
PMID: 41001249

Conflict of interest statement: Jeremiah A. Aakre has no disclosures. Anna M. 
Castillo has no disclosures. Jonathan Graff‐Radford receives support from the 
NIH and serves on the DSMB for StrokeNET and is an investigator in clinical 
trials sponsored by Esai, Cognition therapeutics, and the Alzheimer's Treatment 
and Research Institute at USC. He is an associate editor for JAMA neurology. 
Prashanthi Vemuri receives research funding from NIH. Mary M. Machulda receives 
research funding from NIH. Clifford R. Jack Jr. has no financial conflicts to 
disclose; he receives research support from NIH and the Alexander Family 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Professorship of the Mayo Clinic. David S. 
Knopman serves on a Data Safety Monitoring Board for the Dominantly Inherited 
Alzheimer Network Treatment Unit study sponsored by Washington University St 
Louis, and for the SMART‐HS clinical trial (Univ of Kentucky). He was an 
investigator in Alzheimer clinical trials sponsored by Biogen, Lilly 
Pharmaceuticals and the University of Southern California, both of which have 
ended, and is currently an investigator in a trial in frontotemporal 
degeneration with Alector. He has served as a consultant for Roche, AriBio, 
Linus Health, Biovie and Alzeca Biosciences but receives no personal 
compensation. He receives funding from the NIH. Ronald C. Petersen serves as a 
consultant for Roche, Inc., Genentech, Inc., Eli Lilly and Co., Novo Nordisk, 
Eisai, Inc. (no funding), receives royalties from Oxford University Press and 
UpToDate, contributes to Medscape education and receives NIH funding. Maria 
Vassilaki consulted for F. Hoffmann‐La Roche Ltd, unrelated to the current 
study; she currently receives research funding from NIH and has equity ownership 
in Johnson and Johnson, Merck and Amgen. Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


58. Int J Nanomedicine. 2025 Sep 20;20:11569-11591. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S510487. 
eCollection 2025.

Intravenous Delivery of Angiopep-Functionalized Polypropylenimine Dendriplex 
Enhances Gene Expression in the Brain.

Ali-Jerman H(1)(2), Somani S(1), Al-Quraishi Z(1), Maeyouf K(1), Merkler M(1), 
Gerasimou S(1), Tate RJ(1), Sakata S(1), Mullin M(3), Irving C(4), Anderson 
GJ(4), Bame JR(4), MacKenzie G(1), McNeill G(1), Dufès C(1).

Author information:
(1)Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Strathclyde, Glasgow, G4 0RE, UK.
(2)College of pharmacy, Health Sciences Centre, Kuwait University, Jabriya, 
13110, Kuwait.
(3)Cell Analysis Facility, Medical and Veterinary & Life Sciences Shared 
Research Facilities, College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences, 
University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G12 8QQ, UK.
(4)Department of Pure and Applied Chemistry, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, 
G1 1XL, UK.

BACKGROUND: The application of gene therapy for treating neurological disorders, 
including brain cancer, Parkinson's, and Alzheimer's disease, is significantly 
limited by the current shortage of gene vectors that can effectively cross the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) following intravenous administration. Recent studies 
demonstrated that angiopep-2 can enhance the delivery of therapeutic agents 
across the BBB through receptor-mediated endocytosis. This study therefore 
explores the potential of angiopep-2-conjugated generation-3 diaminobutyric 
polypropylenimine (DAB) dendrimer (DAB-Ang) as nanocarrier for brain-targeted 
gene delivery.
METHODS: Angiopep-2 was conjugated to DAB dendrimer and evaluated in terms of 
DNA condensation ability, particle size, surface charge, and structural 
morphology. The cellular uptake was studied in vitro using bEnd.3 brain 
endothelial cells, and the in vivo efficacy of DAB-Ang dendriplexes for brain 
gene expression was evaluated in BALB/c mice following intravenous 
administration.
RESULTS: DAB-Ang dendrimer successfully condensed up to 90% of DNA, forming 
stable spherical dendriplexes with sizes under 240 nm and positive zeta 
potentials. In vitro, DAB-Ang dendriplex achieved a 9-fold higher cellular 
uptake in brain endothelial cells in comparison to the unmodified complex, 
predominantly through clathrin-mediated endocytosis and macropinocytosis. In 
vivo studies showed significantly increased gene expression in the brain 
following DAB-Ang dendriplex treatment, achieving 1.8-fold and 3.2-fold higher 
expression in comparison to DAB dendriplex and naked DNA, respectively, with 
minimal off-target effects.
CONCLUSION: Angiopep-2-conjugated DAB dendrimer demonstrated high specificity 
and efficacy in facilitating gene delivery to the brain, offering a promising 
platform for therapeutic applications in neurological disorders.

© 2025 Ali-Jerman et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S510487
PMCID: PMC12459624
PMID: 41001105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


59. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Sep 21:2025.09.12.675753. doi: 
10.1101/2025.09.12.675753.

In search of nonlipogenic ABCA1 inducers (NLAI): precision coregulator TR-FRET 
identifies diverse signatures for LXR ligands.

Laham MS(1), Ackerman-Berrier M(2), Alam F(1), Turner S(2), Velma GR(2), Penton 
C(2)(3), Musku SR(2), Rana M(2), Kumar S(2), Annadurai A(2), Sulaiman MI(2), Ma 
N(2), Thatcher GRJ(2)(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry, Colleges of Science & Medicine, 
University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, 85721.
(2)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, R Ken Coit College of Pharmacy, 
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.
(3)Arizona Center for Drug Discovery, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 
85721, USA.

APOE4, the major genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), and ABCA1, 
required for lipidation of APOE are gene products of the liver X receptor (LXR) 
receptor. LXR agonists have been validated in animal models as therapeutics for 
AD, atherosclerosis, and many other diseases. Clinical progress has been 
thwarted by unwanted hepatic lipogenesis. Structurally diverse LXR ligands were 
profiled in coregulator TR-FRET (CRT) assays analyzing ligand-induced 
coactivator recruitment, coactivator selectivity, corepressor dissociation, and 
LXR isoform selectivity. A multiplex CRT assay was developed to measure 
synchronous ligand-induced displacement of corepressor by coactivator. Potency 
for coactivator recruitment to LXRβ correlated with induction of ABCA1 in human 
astrocytoma cells. Correlation with lipogenic activation of sterol response 
element (SRE) in hepatocarcinoma cells, was more complex. CRT response was 
diverse revealing ligands with theoretical full agonist, partial agonist, 
antagonist, and inverse agonist signatures within the same chemical series, 
suggesting the scope for precision CRT to guide nonlipogenic LXR agonist design.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.09.12.675753
PMCID: PMC12458303
PMID: 41000830


60. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Sep 17:2025.09.11.675717. doi: 
10.1101/2025.09.11.675717.

Sex-specific effects of fecal microbiota transplantation on TBI-exacerbated 
Alzheimer's pathology in mice.

Soriano S(1), Marshall A(1), Holcomb M(1), Flinn H(1), Burke M(1), Kara G(1), 
Scalzo P(1), Villapol S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery and Center for Neuroregeneration, Houston 
Methodist Research Institute, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Neuroscience in Neurological Surgery, Weill Cornell Medical 
College, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) accelerates Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathology and neuroinflammation, potentially via gut-brain axis disruptions. 
Whether restoring gut microbial homeostasis mitigates TBI-exacerbated AD 
features remains unclear, particularly with respect to sex differences.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of our study was to test whether fecal microbiota 
transplantation (FMT) modifies amyloid pathology, neuroinflammation, gut 
microbial composition, metabolites, and motor outcomes in male and female 5xFAD 
mice subjected to TBI.
METHODS: Male and female 5xFAD mice received sham treatments or controlled 
cortical impact, followed 24 hours later by vehicle (VH) or sex-matched FMT from 
C57BL/6 donors. Assessments at baseline, 1, and 3 days post-injury included 
Thioflavin-S and 6E10 immunostaining for Aβ, Iba-1 and GFAP for glial 
activation, lesion volume, rotarod performance, 16S rRNA sequencing for 
microbiome profiling, serum short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), and gut histology.
RESULTS: TBI increased cortical and dentate gyrus Aβ burden, with females 
showing greater vulnerability. FMT reduced Aβ deposition in sham animals and 
shifted plaque morphology but did not attenuate TBI-induced amyloid escalation. 
FMT differentially modulated glial responses by sex and region (reduced 
microgliosis in males) without altering lesion volume. Rotarod performance was 
better in sham females compared to males and declined in FMT-treated TBI 
females. Fecal microbiome alpha diversity and richness were unchanged, while 
beta diversity revealed marked, time-dependent community shifts after TBI that 
were slightly altered by FMT. Gut morphology remained broadly intact, but crypt 
width increased after TBI, particularly in males.
CONCLUSION: In 5xFAD mice, TBI drives sex-dependent worsening of amyloid 
pathology, neuroinflammation, and dysbiosis. Acute FMT partially restores 
microbial composition and plaque features in sham animals but fails to reverse 
TBI-induced neuroinflammation or motor deficits. These findings underscore the 
context- and sex-dependence of microbiome interventions and support longer-term, 
sex-specific strategies for AD with comorbid TBI.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.09.11.675717
PMCID: PMC12458186
PMID: 4100080161. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Sep 25:2025.09.18.676925. doi: 
10.1101/2025.09.18.676925.

Vascular-Perfusable Human 3D Brain-on-Chip.

Stanton AE, Pinals RL, Choi A, Truong N, Kang E, Jiang A, Lozano Cruz CF, 
Hawkins S, Sarcar R, Volkova A, King O, Agbas E, Nakano M, Chiu CC, Bubnys A, 
Wright S, Staab C, Bikdash R, Forden E, Langer R, Tsai LH.

Development and delivery of treatments for neurological diseases are limited by 
the tight and selective human blood-brain barrier (BBB). Although animal models 
have been important research and preclinical tools, the rodent BBB exhibits 
species differences and fails to capture the complexity of human genetics. 
Microphysiological systems incorporating human-derived cells hold great 
potential for modeling disease and therapeutic development, with advantages in 
screening throughput, real-time monitoring, and tunable genetic backgrounds when 
combined with induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology. Existing 3D 
BBB-on-chip systems have incorporated iPSC-derived endothelial cells but not the 
other major brain cell types from iPSCs, each of which contributes to brain 
physiology and disease. Here we developed a 3D Brain-Chip system incorporating 
endothelial cells, pericytes, astrocytes, neurons, microglia, and 
oligodendroglia from iPSCs. To enable this multicellular 3D co-culture in-chip, 
we designed a GelChip microfluidic platform using a 3D printing-based approach 
and dextran-based engineered hydrogel. Leveraging this platform, we co-cultured 
and characterized iPSC-derived brain-on-chips and modeled the brain 
microvasculature of APOE4 , the strongest known genetic risk factor for sporadic 
Alzheimer's disease. These 3D brain-on-chips provide a versatile system to 
assess BBB vascular morphology and function, investigate downstream neurological 
effects in disease, and screen therapeutics to optimize delivery to the brain.
SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is both a contributing 
factor to neurological disease and a major obstacle to its treatment, yet 
human-relevant models remain limited. Most existing brain-on-chip systems 
incorporate only subsets of BBB cell types and cannot capture the full cellular 
complexity of the human neurovascular unit. Here, we establish a 
vascular-perfusable 3D Brain-Chip using human induced pluripotent stem 
cell-derived brain cells including endothelial cells, pericytes, astrocytes, 
neurons, microglia, and oligodendroglia. This system enables systematic analysis 
of human genetic risk factors, such as APOE4 in Alzheimer's disease, and 
provides a powerful platform to investigate BBB function and dysfunction and 
accelerate the development of more effective neurological therapies.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.09.18.676925
PMCID: PMC12458943
PMID: 41000798


62. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Sep 17:2025.09.16.676643. doi: 
10.1101/2025.09.16.676643.

The Impact of Formic Acid Treatment on Brain Tissues for Prion Inactivation.

Shaaban D(1), Seerley A(2), Crew L(1), Kaylor C(1), McElroy S(2), Guter E(2), 
Pounder J(2), Panter AG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Touro University College of Osteopathic Medicine Montana, Great Falls, MT, 
United States.
(2)Weissman Hood Institute at Touro University; McLaughlin Research Institute, 
Great Falls, MT, United States.

There are significant risks in clinical, diagnostic, and research settings to 
those who investigate prion diseases, due to the difficult nature of 
inactivating prion proteins with standard decontamination methods. Formic acid 
treatment has been shown to be effective for decontaminating infectious prions 
and commonly used in biosafety practice to prevent occupational exposure. 
However, the impact of formic acid protocols on the morphology of tissue samples 
has not been adequately documented. The goal of this study is to examine 
morphologic effects of formic acid treatment on central nervous system tissue, 
using mouse model brain hemisphere tissues that exhibit varying degrees of 
neurodegeneration as a model. This study included normal, non-diseased wild-type 
tissues and a 5xFAD model, which recapitulates aspects of Alzheimer's Disease 
(AD). A model exhibiting Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD), a prion disease of deer 
and elk, was also used to analyze the effects of formic acid on tissues with 
spongiform changes. Tissues from both formic acid and untreated control 
treatment groups were embedded in paraffin, sectioned, stained, and imaged 
microscopically. Anatomical regions were analyzed and evaluated quantitatively 
to determine the width, area, and structural integrity of the tissue between 
treatment groups. Our findings demonstrated that while formic acid has been 
previously reported to effectively inactivate prions, it compromised the 
morphology of mouse brain tissues. Furthermore, the effects of formic acid were 
not distributed equally between regions of the brain. Age did not play a role in 
the morphologic changes seen in the formic acid treatment group. Interestingly, 
the presence of neurodegeneration in the tissues did not appear to exacerbate 
the effects of morphological changes post-formic acid treatment. These results 
emphasize the need to explore alternative prion inactivation methods that ensure 
the safety and reliability of handling prion-infected tissues without 
compromising the integrity of tissues.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.09.16.676643
PMCID: PMC12458212
PMID: 41000621


63. J Alzheimers Dis Rep. 2025 Sep 22;9:25424823251379878. doi: 
10.1177/25424823251379878. eCollection 2025 Jan-Dec.

Neurofilament light (NfL) chain levels predict clinical decline in Alzheimer's 
disease: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Thomas K(1), Spin P(1), Sir N(1), Hou K(1), Ashton NJ(2), Zetterberg 
H(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8), Miller S(9), Pringle C(9), Stefanacci R(9)(10), Wischik 
CM(9), Gauthier S(11).

Author information:
(1)Value & Evidence, EVERSANA™, Burlington, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience & 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(4)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(7)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(8)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(9)TauRx Therapeutics Ltd, Aberdeen, UK.
(10)Jefferson College of Population Health, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Regulatory approval of new investigational Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
therapies could be accelerated if reasonably likely surrogate endpoints could be 
used. Neurofilament light chain (NfL) has potential utility as a prognostic 
biomarker of neurodegeneration in AD.
OBJECTIVE: To synthesize available evidence on the relationship between baseline 
NfL levels and longitudinal clinical decline.
METHODS: A systematic literature review identified 19 eligible studies, 
contributing 37 longitudinal statistical models evaluating the association 
between baseline NfL (plasma or cerebrospinal fluid [CSF]) with subsequent 
clinical decline based on validated clinical scales including Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE), Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale, and 
Clinical Dementia Rating. Results were pooled via meta-analysis, using partial 
correlation coefficients (PCC), separately for patient sub-groups (mild 
cognitive impairment, AD or combined).
RESULTS: Across the AD continuum, higher baseline NfL levels were consistently 
associated with greater cognitive and global clinical decline in most analyses. 
This pattern was consistent for both plasma (pooled PCC = -0.17 [95% CI = -0.22, 
-0.12] for MMSE, any AD population) and CSF NfL (pooled PCC = -0.14 [95% 
CI = -0.24, -0.04] for MMSE, any AD population). The strength of association 
across multiple clinical endpoints and populations, measured by absolute value 
of pooled PCC, ranged from 0.13 to 0.25.
CONCLUSIONS: The results support the utility of NfL as a predictive biomarker 
for progression of clinical decline in AD patients.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/25424823251379878
PMCID: PMC12457754
PMID: 41000329

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared the following potential 
conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article: Kimberly Thomas, Paul Spin, Nikita Sir, and Kevin 
Hou are employees of EVERSANA™. EVERSANA receives consultancy fees from 
pharmaceutical and device companies, including TauRx Therapeutics Ltd Claude 
Wischik and Richard Stefanacci are salaried employees of TauRx Therapeutics Ltd 
Tay Siew Choon is the deputy chairman of TauRx Therapeutics Ltd Henrik 
Zetterberg has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for 
Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery 
Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and 
Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), 
which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). 
Serge Gauthier has provided scientific advice to AbbVie, ADvantage, Alzheon, 
AmyriAD, Eisai, Lilly, Meilleur Technologies, Novo Nordisk, Otsuka, TauRx.We 
acknowledge Claire Hull of TauRx for administrative assistance in submitting the 
manuscript on behalf of the authors. The listed authors confirm that they have 
authorized Claire Hull to submit the manuscript on their behalf and have 
approved all statements and declarations, including disclosures of conflicting 
interests and funding.


64. Drug Dev Res. 2025 Nov;86(7):e70160. doi: 10.1002/ddr.70160.

Neuroprotective Effects of Liraglutide and/or Rivastigmine Combination on the 
Rat Hippocampus.

Abdel-Aal RA(1), Hareedy MS(1)(2), Badary DM(3), Abdelnabi S(1), Hussein AMR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut, 
Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Mutah University, Karak, 
Jordan.
(3)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut, 
Egypt.

This study evaluated the neuroprotective potential of a combination therapy 
using liraglutide (LIRA), an antidiabetic agent, and rivastigmine (RIVA), a 
standard treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD), in a rat model of aluminum 
chloride (AlCl₃)-induced AD. Male rats were divided into five groups: control, 
AD (AlCl₃,75 mg/kg for 60 days), RIVA-treated (1 mg/kg daily for 6 weeks), 
LIRA-treated (300 µg/kg daily for 6 weeks), and combination-treated 
(LIRA + RIVA). Cognitive function was assessed behaviorally, and hippocampal 
biomarkers related to AD-such as microtubule-associated protein Tau (MAPt), 
Beta-Site Amyloid Precursor Protein Cleaving Enzyme 1 (BACE1), Sequestosome 1 
(SQSTM1/p62), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity-were evaluated. 
Histopathological changes, immunohistochemistry, and transmission electron 
microscopy were also assessed. The levels of MAPt, BACE1, SQSTM1/p62, and AChE 
in the LIRA + RIVA group were 11.32 ± 0.467 ng/mL, 1069 ± 80.1 pg/mL, 
408.7 ± 19.41 pg/mL, and 0.805 ± 0.342 µmol of acetylthiocholine iodide 
hydrolyzed/min/g of tissue, respectively. These levels were significant 
(p < 0.01) when compared with the AlCl3 group. Histological findings supported 
these biochemical data, indicating enhanced neuroprotection. LIRA may have a 
potential neuroprotective effect due to the rise in AChE, BACE1, (SQSTM1/p62) 
amyloid beta (Aβ), and caspase-3 levels induced by AlCl3. Co-administration of 
LIRA and RIVA provided superior neuroprotective effects compared with RIVA 
alone, suggesting a promising therapeutic strategy for preserving cognitive 
function in AD.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ddr.70160
PMID: 41000001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2025 Sep 25;16(1):496. doi: 10.1186/s13287-025-04649-z.

Mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles exert Th1-mediated 
anti-inflammatory effects via miR-146a/NF-κB pathway: comparison with dupilumab 
in a mouse model of atopic dermatitis.

Park D(1), Kim JH(1), Yang H(1), Ji Y(1), Yoo J(1), Kim J(2), Bang OY(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Samsung Advanced Institute for 
Health Sciences and Technology (SAIHST), Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(2)S&E bio, Inc. Seoul, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Samsung Advanced Institute for 
Health Sciences and Technology (SAIHST), Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, South 
Korea. neuroboy50@naver.com.
(4)S&E bio, Inc. Seoul, Seoul, South Korea. neuroboy50@naver.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University, 81 
Irwon-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 135-710, South Korea. neuroboy50@naver.com.

BACKGROUND: Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease 
primarily treated with corticosteroids and dupilumab, a monoclonal antibody 
targeting interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived 
extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) are promising alternatives owing to their 
anti-inflammatory properties. This study compared the therapeutic effects of 
dupilumab and MSC-EVs in a murine model of AD. We employed clinical, 
serological, and histological analyses to assess the efficacy of these 
treatments and investigated their mechanisms in vitro and in vivo.
METHODS: We generated Wharton's jelly MSC-EVs using a 3D microwell-based 
platform and evaluated their effects in an AD mouse model. AD was induced by 
repeated application of 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) and sodium dodecyl 
sulfate (SDS). The mice were randomly divided into four groups: healthy 
(normal), placebo (DNCB + SDS), EV (6 × 108 particles once), and dupilumab 
(25 mg/kg biweekly) groups. Dupilumab and EVs were injected subcutaneously into 
the dorsal skin of the mice. Dermatitis scores, serum inflammatory markers, and 
histological analyses were performed to evaluate disease severity and changes at 
the tissue level. Additionally, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α-induced HaCaT 
cells were utilized for in vitro experiments to investigate the molecular 
mechanisms of MSC-EV therapy.
RESULTS: EVs and dupilumab improved the clinical dermatitis score, reduced 
epidermal thickness, and promoted restoration of the skin barrier in mice with 
AD. Treatments decreased T helper (Th)2 and pro-inflammatory cytokines, but EVs, 
unlike dupilumab, effectively suppressed Th1 and Th22 cytokines. EVs suppress 
Th1 activation through the AKT/NF-κB pathway via microRNA-146a.
CONCLUSIONS: MSC-EVs offer a novel cell-free therapy for AD, demonstrating 
comparable or superior efficacy to dupilumab, with broader immunomodulatory 
effects and the advantage of a single-dose administration.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13287-025-04649-z
PMCID: PMC12465636
PMID: 40999478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All tests were conducted and documented according to validated 
standard operating procedures. The Institutional Review Board of Samsung Medical 
Center approved all studies involving human subjects under the project entitled 
“Selection of optimal source-specific mesenchymal stem cells for the treatment 
of chronic and refractory diseases including Alzheimer’s disease and 
musculoskeletal disorders.” Wharton’s jelly (WJ) was obtained from three healthy 
volunteers. All volunteers or their guardians provided written informed consent 
to participate in the study (IRB File No. 2016-07-102, 2023.09.18). Our research 
complied with the regulatory requirements for human cells, tissues, and cellular 
and tissue-based products (HCT/Ps) regulated in compliance under section CFR 
1271 Title 21 “361” of PHS of the US FDA. All animal experimental procedures 
were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (Laboratory 
Animal Research Center, an AAALAC International-approved facility) at Samsung 
Medical Center under the project entitled “Efficacy of Wharton’s 
Jelly-mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles in Moyamoya disease” 
(Approval No. 20220627001, Date of Approval: September 8, 2022), and were 
conducted in accordance with the Animal Research: Reporting of In vivo 
Experiments (ARRIVE) guidelines Consent for publication: All authors confirm 
that they have given their consent for publication. Competing interests: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests.


66. Acta Neurol Belg. 2025 Sep 26. doi: 10.1007/s13760-025-02900-1. Online ahead
of  print.

Effect of patient education interventions on non-motor symptoms and disease 
outcomes in parkinson's disease: a systematic review.

Van Doeselaer L(#)(1)(2), Colman K(#)(3)(4), Crosiers D(5)(6), Dijkstra F(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Antwerp University Hospital, Drie Eikenstraat 655, 
Edegem, B-2650, Belgium. lisa.vandoeselaer@uza.be.
(2)Department of Neurology, AZ Klina, Augustijnslei 100, 2930, Brasschaat, 
Belgium. lisa.vandoeselaer@uza.be.
(3)Department of Neurology, Antwerp University Hospital, Drie Eikenstraat 655, 
Edegem, B-2650, Belgium. kaat.colman@uza.be.
(4)Translational Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, Antwerpen, 2610, Belgium. 
kaat.colman@uza.be.
(5)Department of Neurology, Antwerp University Hospital, Drie Eikenstraat 655, 
Edegem, B-2650, Belgium. david.crosiers@uantwerpen.be.
(6)Translational Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, Antwerpen, 2610, Belgium. 
david.crosiers@uantwerpen.be.
(7)Department of Neurology, Antwerp University Hospital, Drie Eikenstraat 655, 
Edegem, B-2650, Belgium.
(#)Contributed equally

Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, 
characterized by both motor symptoms (MS) and non-motor symptoms (NMS). While MS 
have traditionally been the primary focus of treatment and research, NMS 
significantly contribute to disease burden. However, knowledge regarding NMS in 
Parkinson's patients seems particularly lacking. Educational interventions have 
previously shown a positive effect on health outcomes in chronic illnesses such 
as Alzheimer's disease and diabetes, warranting investigation into their impact 
on NMS in Parkinson's disease. We conducted a systematic review to evaluate 
whether education interventions on non-motor symptoms (NMS) in Parkinson's 
disease (PD) patients contribute to better disease outcomes. Education 
interventions showed significant effects on various patient-reported and 
physician-reported outcomes, including quality of life, motor symptoms, 
depression, fatigue, adherence to treatment, acceptance of diagnosis, 
satisfaction with care, psychosocial adjustment, and independence in activities 
of daily living. Some effects were temporary, implying the need for booster 
sessions in future education interventions. There was limited focus on the 
direct impact of education interventions on NMS other than depression and 
anxiety. No studies directly compared different education interventions, 
preventing conclusions on which type of intervention leads to the best outcome. 
In conclusion, education interventions on NMS in PD have significant effects on 
disease outcomes. Future research should determine the optimal timing for 
booster sessions and further investigate their impact on NMS beyond depression 
and anxiety. Direct comparisons between different education interventions are 
needed to identify the most effective approach.

© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Belgian Neurological Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s13760-025-02900-1
PMID: 40999308

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


67. Neurotherapeutics. 2025 Sep 24:e00755. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00755.
Online  ahead of print.

Black gas, bright future: H(2)S based therapeutics for neurodegenerative 
disorders.

Morris JL(1), Lee JJ(2), Morris RE(3), Miljkovic JL(4).

Author information:
(1)MRC Mitochondrial Biology Unit, Keith Peters Building, Cambridge Biomedical 
Campus, University of Cambridge, CB2 0XY, UK; Awen Oncology Ltd. Menai Science 
Park, Anglesey, LL60 6AG, UK.
(2)MRC Mitochondrial Biology Unit, Keith Peters Building, Cambridge Biomedical 
Campus, University of Cambridge, CB2 0XY, UK; Department of Medicine, University 
of Cambridge, Addenbrookes Hospital, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.
(3)EaStCHEM School of Chemistry, University of St Andrews, St Andrews, KY16 9ST, 
UK.
(4)MRC Mitochondrial Biology Unit, Keith Peters Building, Cambridge Biomedical 
Campus, University of Cambridge, CB2 0XY, UK. Electronic address: 
jm2277@cam.ac.uk.

From shaping Earth's earliest anoxic seas to quietly orchestrating cellular life 
today, hydrogen sulfide (H2S) has journeyed from ancient toxin to modern 
therapeutic candidate. Once abundant in Earth's primordial environment, H2S has 
reemerged as a critical endogenous gasotransmitter in modern biology. Within the 
central nervous system, H2S regulates redox homeostasis, mitochondrial 
bioenergetics, inflammatory signalling, and neuronal excitability. A key 
mechanism involves post-translational modification of protein cysteine residues 
(persulfidation), reactions with metal centres, and scavenging of reactive 
oxygen and nitrogen species, thereby influencing diverse cellular processes. 
Dysregulation of H2S metabolism, whether deficient or excessive, is increasingly 
implicated in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, 
Huntington's disease, Down syndrome, and in stroke and traumatic brain injury. 
This review focuses on neuronal aspects of H2S biology and therapeutic relevance 
in these conditions. Restoration of H2S signalling in preclinical models 
improves cognitive and motor function, reduces neuropathology, and preserves 
mitochondrial integrity. Therapeutic innovation has produced a variety of H2S 
donors, including slow-releasing compounds, organelle-targeted agents, and 
emerging nanomaterial platforms such as polymer-based and metal-organic 
frameworks for precision CNS delivery. Natural compounds such as ergothioneine, 
a sulfur-containing antioxidant, are also gaining attention as potential 
modulators of endogenous H2S pathways. Future directions include integration of 
H2S therapies with genetic targeting tools and elucidation of their interactions 
with other gasotransmitters and gut-brain axis signalling. Although clinical 
trials remain limited, the convergence of donor chemistry, molecular biology, 
and delivery technologies positions H2S-based therapeutics as a promising 
frontier for treating neurodegeneration and acute neural injuries.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2025.e00755
PMID: 40998690

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


68. Behav Brain Res. 2025 Sep 23;496:115842. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115842.
Online  ahead of print.

Evaluation of acridine derivatives as acetylcholinesterase inhibitors: 
Cytotoxicity, molecular interactions, and neuroprotective potential in AD.

Mart EJ(1), Darwin CR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Vels Institute of Science, Technology and Advance 
Studies (VISTAS), Pallavaram, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Vels Institute of Science, Technology and Advance 
Studies (VISTAS), Pallavaram, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. Electronic address: 
hodpcology@vistas.ac.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive neurodegeneration, 
memory impairment, and neuroinflammation. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) represents 
a critical therapeutic target due to its role in acetylcholine regulation and 
amyloid-beta aggregation. This study evaluated five synthesized acridine 
derivatives (AAM7, AAM5, AC8, AC6, AM1) as potential AChE inhibitors through 
molecular docking, dynamics simulations, ADMET profiling, and cytotoxicity 
assessment using SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Molecular docking revealed AAM7 
exhibited the highest binding affinity (-10.6 kcal/mol) to AChE, followed by 
AAM5, AC6, and AC8 (each -10.2 kcal/mol), while AM1 showed the lowest affinity 
(-9.1 kcal/mol). Molecular dynamics simulations confirmed AAM7's stable 
protein-ligand interactions with consistent hydrogen bonding (>70 % trajectory 
occupancy) and π-π stacking with key residues Tyr124, Asp74, Ser125, and Trp86. 
ADMET analysis demonstrated favorable CNS penetration for all compounds, with 
AAM7 showing optimal drug-like properties (MW: 383.49 g/mol, LogP: 4.65, TPSA: 
45.23 Å²) despite moderate solubility concerns. Cytotoxicity studies revealed 
AC6 as the most potent compound (IC₅₀: 135.56 μg/ml), followed by AM1 (IC₅₀: 
202.36 μg/ml), while AAM7 demonstrated minimal cytotoxicity (IC₅₀: 
394.02 μg/ml), indicating superior safety profile. Network analysis identified 
AChE as a central hub protein in neurodegeneration pathways. These findings 
establish AAM7 as a promising lead compound for AD therapy, combining strong 
AChE binding affinity with favorable safety characteristics, warranting further 
optimization for clinical development.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2025.115842
PMID: 40998260

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
state that they have no knowledge of competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have influenced this paper.


69. Exp Neurol. 2025 Sep 23;395:115482. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115482.
Online  ahead of print.

Effects of cranial X-ray irradiation in Presymptomatic 3 × Tg-AD mice.

Cheng W(1), Ma Y(2), Gao F(1), Shi Z(1), Zuo D(1), Di C(1), Jin X(1), Chen W(1), 
Ye F(3), Li Q(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Modern Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Lanzhou, China; 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China; Gansu Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Ion Beam Medicine Research, Lanzhou, China.
(2)Institute of Modern Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Lanzhou, China; 
Gansu Provincial Key Laboratory of Ion Beam Medicine Research, Lanzhou, China.
(3)Institute of Modern Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Lanzhou, China; 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China; Gansu Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Ion Beam Medicine Research, Lanzhou, China. Electronic address: 
yefei@impcas.ac.cn.
(4)Institute of Modern Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Lanzhou, China; 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China; Gansu Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Ion Beam Medicine Research, Lanzhou, China. Electronic address: 
liqiang@impcas.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Recently, several animal studies have demonstrated the therapeutic 
potential of low-dose radiation therapy (LDRT) for Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
especially in decreasing amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques. However, clinical concerns 
regarding the duration of efficacy and long-term safety of this treatment remain 
understudied. Additionally, LDRT has been shown to alleviate various 
neurological disorders. We hypothesize that the therapeutic mechanisms of LDRT 
in AD may extend beyond targeting Aβ and tau alone. In this study, we 
administered whole-brain X-ray irradiation (10 Gy in 5 fractions) to 
presymptomatic AD mice to re-examine its mechanism of action, duration of 
efficacy, and long-term safety profile.
RESULTS: Two months after irradiation, the autonomous activity of 3 × Tg-AD mice 
was significantly enhanced, with specific improvements in the spatial learning 
and memory in females. Western blotting revealed reduced tau phosphorylation at 
Ser262 site in the hippocampus of females. SnRNA-seq demonstrated restored 
neuronal network in females. However, these therapeutic effects appeared 
exhibited transient characteristics. By ten months post-irradiation, no 
significant behavioral and AD-related pathological changes were detected across 
groups, except for the elevated Aβ1-42 in the hippocampus of females.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, the effects of early X-ray intervention on 3 × Tg-AD 
mice were sex-specific and time-dependent. The short-term improvement observed 
in female mice may be attributed to attenuated tau hyperphosphorylation and 
restored neuronal networks. Longitudinal observation over ten consecutive months 
post-irradiation showed no evidence of severe adverse effects.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115482
PMID: 40998043

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


70. Lancet. 2025 Sep 27;406(10510):1424-1442. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)01389-3.
 Epub 2025 Sep 22.

Alzheimer's disease outlook: controversies and future directions.

Frisoni GB(1), Aho E(2), Brayne C(3), Ciccarelli O(4), Dubois B(5), Fox NC(6), 
Frederiksen KS(7), Gabay C(8), Garibotto V(9), Hofmarcher T(10), Jack CR Jr(11), 
Kivipelto M(12), Petersen RC(13), Ribaldi F(14), Rowe CC(15), Walsh S(3), 
Zetterberg H(16), Hansson O(17).

Author information:
(1)Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, University 
Hospitals and University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
giovanni.frisoni@unige.ch.
(2)Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Cambridge Public Health, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(4)Queen Square Multiple Sclerosis Centre, Department of Neuroinflammation, UCL 
Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University 
College London, London, UK; NIHR University College London Hospitals Biomedical 
Research Centre, London, UK.
(5)Institut de la Mémoire et de la Maladie d'Alzheimer, IM2A, Groupe Hospitalier 
Pitié-Salpêtrière, Sorbonne Université, Paris, France; Institut du Cerveau et de 
la Moelle Épinière, UMR-S975, INSERM, Hôpital de la Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, 
France.
(6)Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen 
Square Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK; UK 
Dementia Research Institute at UCL, University College London, London, UK.
(7)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurology, Copenhagen 
University Hospital-Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Clinical 
Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(8)Division of Rheumatology, Geneva University Hospitals and Geneva Centre for 
Inflammation Research, Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(9)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers, Geneva 
University Neurocenter and Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland; Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Geneva 
University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland; Center for Biomedical Imaging, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(10)IHE - The Swedish Institute for Health Economics, Lund, Sweden.
(11)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(12)Karolinska Institute, Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Center for Alzheimer 
Research, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; University of Eastern 
Finland, Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, Kuopio, Finland; 
Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial College 
London, London, UK; FINGERS Brain Health Institute, Solna, Sweden.
(13)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(14)Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, University 
Hospitals and University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(15)Department of Molecular Imaging, Austin Health and Florey Department, 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(16)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden; Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of 
Neurology, University College London, London, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute 
at UCL, University College London, London, UK; Hong Kong Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, InnoHK, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, 
China; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA; Centre for Brain Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, 
India.
(17)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Faculty of Medicine, Malmö, Sweden; 
Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2025 Sep 27;406(10510):1340. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)01913-0.

For the first time, reductions in cerebral β-amyloid pathology load and rate of 
cognitive and functional decline have been achieved in Alzheimer's disease, 
through pharmacological intervention in randomised controlled trials. However, 
the results from phase 3 randomised controlled trials of anti-β amyloid 
monoclonal antibodies are interpreted in different ways, with some experts 
supporting a clinically meaningful disease-modifying effect, and others judging 
insufficient benefit-to-risk ratio and opposing market authorisation. In the 
final paper of this Series, we discuss these contrasting views, all of which 
wish to contribute to improvements in the quality of life of people with, or at 
risk of, Alzheimer's disease. We contrast the efficacy, societal costs, and 
generalisability of monoclonal antibodies for Alzheimer's disease to biologics 
for other conditions (eg, cancer, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis) 
and set this debate in the larger context of modern personalised medicine. We 
discuss current practice implications, future developments directed to β-amyloid 
and non-amyloid targets that might have more clinical efficacy and less adverse 
effects for those with the disease, and large-scale prevention interventions for 
those at risk.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)01389-3
PMID: 40997840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests GBF has received 
funding through the Private Foundation of Geneva University Hospitals from: 
Association Suisse pour la Recherche sur la Maladie d'Alzheimer, Geneva, 
Switzerland; Fondation Segré, Geneva, Switzerland; Ivan Pictet, Geneva, 
Switzerland; Race Against Dementia Foundation, London, UK; Fondation Child Care, 
Geneva, Switzerland; Fondation Edmond J Safra, Geneva, Switzerland; Fondation 
Minkoff, Geneva, Switzerland; Fondazione Agusta, Lugano, Switzerland; McCall 
Macbain Foundation, Toronto, Canada; Nicole et René Keller, Geneva, Switzerland; 
Fondation Accompagnement, Écoute, Temps, Attention, Soutien, Geneva, 
Switzerland; has received funding through the University of Geneva or Geneva 
University Hospitals: for Investigator-Initiated Sponsored Studies from Roche, 
OM Pharma, EISAI, Biogen, and Novo Nordisk; has received funding for competitive 
research projects from: Horizon 2020, Innovative Medicines Initiative, 
Innovative Medicines Initiative 2, Swiss National Science Foundation, and VELUX 
Foundation; has received consulting fees from: Biogen, Diadem, and Roche; and 
has received payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from: Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisk, and 
GE HealthCare. EA declares research grants from Vinnova. OC was awarded a 
National Institute for Health and Care Research Research Professorship 
(RP-2017-08-ST2-004), a UK Multiple Sclerosis Society grant (grant code 92), and 
funding from the National Institute for Health and Care Research, University 
College London Hospitals, Biomedical Research Centre, and Medical Research 
Council (all paid to the institution); consulting fees from Biogen for 
participation in advisory boards; speaking honoraria from Merck; and 
participation on a data safety monitoring board for Novartis. BD declares grants 
or contracts from Roche, Fondation Merck-Avenir, and Fondation Recherche 
Alzheimer (all paid to the institution); consulting fees from Qynapse and Aura; 
payment or honoraria for lectures from Schwabe Pharma; and participation on a 
data safety monitoring board or advisory board for Barcelonaβeta Brain Research 
Center, and Acumen. NCF declares consulting fees from Eisai, F Hoffmann-La 
Roche, Eli Lilly, Ionis, Biogen, and Siemens (all paid to the institution); 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from F Hoffmann-La Roche; participation on a data 
safety monitoring board or advisory board for Biogen; and a leadership or 
fiduciary role in Alzheimer's Society. KSF declares payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events from Novo Nordisk (paid to the institution); and participation on 
advisory boards for Novo Nordisk and Eisai (paid to the institution). VG 
declares grants or contracts from Siemens Healthineers and GE Healthcare (all 
paid to the institution); and payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from Novo Nordisk 
and Janssen (all paid to the institution). TH declares grants or contracts from 
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, Merck Sharp & 
Dohme, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, Irish 
Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association, International Alliance of Patients' 
Organizations, Novartis, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, 
and Vintura (all paid to the institution); payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
Lund University, Merck Sharp & Dohme (paid to the institution), and AstraZenaca 
(paid to the institution); travel support from Swedish Association of the 
Pharmaceutical Industry, Aspen Institute Romania, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Novartis, 
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, Irish 
Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association, and Pharmaceutical Research and 
Manufacturers of America (all paid to the institution); and a leadership or 
fiduciary role in AstraZeneca Global Breast Cancer Care Council. CRJ declares 
support for the present manuscript from NIH (paid to the institution); support 
for attending meetings and travel from Alzheimer's Association (paid to the 
institution); and participation on a data safety monitoring board for Roche pro 
bono (no payments to individual or to institution). MK declares grants or 
contracts from Center for Innovative Medicine, Stiftelsen Stockholm's Sjukhem, 
Swedish Research Council for Health Working Life and Welfare, Joint 
Programme–Neurodegenerative Disease Research, Avtal om Läkarutbildning och 
Forskning, Vetenskapsrådet, and Alzheimer's Disease Data Initiative; consulting 
fees from Combinostics, Lilly, and Nestle; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational from 
Nutricia; participation on scientific advisory boards for Combinostics, Eisai, 
Eli Lilly, and Nestle; and a leadership or fiduciary role in Alzheimer's Drug 
Discovery Foundation and World Dementia Council. RCP declares grants or 
contracts from the National Institute on Aging and the National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke (all paid to the institution); royalties from 
Oxford University Press and UpToDate; consulting fees from Roche, Genentech, Eli 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Nestle, Eisai and Novartis; participation in educational 
materials from Medscape; participation on data safety monitoring boards or 
advisory boards for Genentech and Roche; and a leadership or fiduciary role in 
American Brain Foundation. CCR declares grants or contracts from Eisai, Roche, 
National Health and Medical Research Council (Australia), and Enigma Australia 
(all paid to the institution); consulting fees from Eisai Australia Medical 
Advisory panel, Lilly Australia Medical Advisory panel, Novo Nordisk, and 
Prothena; honoraria from Roche and Lilly; support for attending meetings and 
travel from Cerveau Technologies; a leadership or fiduciary role in Australian 
Dementia Network; and receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing, 
gifts or other services from Cerveau and Enigma. SW declares grants or contracts 
from National Institute for Health Research Doctoral Fellowship. OH declares 
consulting fees from AC Immune, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol Meyer Squibb, C2N 
Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi, 
Eisai, and Siemens. OH contributed to this manuscript from the inception of the 
Series in May, 2024, until Nov 26, 2024, when the first version was ready to 
submit. Once he was employed by Eli Lilly on Nov 26, 2024, he had no access to 
any subsequent manuscript versions or revisions and did not contribute to the 
project any further. HZ has served at scientific advisory boards and as a 
consultant for AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, 
Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, Red Abbey 
Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, ScandiBio Therapeutics AB, Siemens Healthineers, 
Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, 
BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, LabCorp, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Oy 
Medix Biochemica AB, Roche, and WebMD; is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB, which is a part of the University of Gothenburg 
Ventures Incubator Program, without any products on the market; and is co-chair 
of the Global Biomarker Standardization Consortium and chair of the 
International Federation of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine Working 
Group on Biomarkers for Neurodegenerative Diseases. All other authors declare no 
competing interests.


71. Lancet. 2025 Sep 27;406(10510):1408-1423. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)01329-7.
 Epub 2025 Sep 22.

Treatment for Alzheimer's disease.

Fox NC(1), Belder C(2), Ballard C(3), Kales HC(4), Mummery C(5), Caramelli P(6), 
Ciccarelli O(7), Frederiksen KS(8), Gomez-Isla T(9), Ismail Z(10), Paquet C(11), 
Petersen RC(12), Perneczky R(13), Robinson L(14), Sayin O(15), Frisoni GB(16).

Author information:
(1)Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen 
Square Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK; UK 
Dementia Research Institute at UCL, University College London, London, UK.
(2)Department of Neurology, Royal Adelaide Hospital and Queen Elizabeth 
Hospital, Adelaide, SA, Australia; Adelaide Medical School, Faculty of Health 
and Medical Sciences, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia; 
Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen 
Square Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(3)Clinical and Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, 
University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, UC Davis School of 
Medicine, University of California, Sacramento, CA, USA.
(5)Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen 
Square Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(6)Behavioral and Cognitive Neurology Unit, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(7)Queen Square Multiple Sclerosis Centre, Department of Neuroinflammation, UCL 
Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University 
College London, London, UK; NIHR University College London Hospitals Biomedical 
Research Centre, London, UK.
(8)Danish Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurology, Copenhagen 
University Hospital-Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Clinical 
Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(9)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(11)Cognitive Neurology Center, Université Paris Cité, GHU Nord APHP Hospital 
Lariboisière Fernand Widal, Paris, France.
(12)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(13)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, LMU Hospital, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich, Munich, Germany; German Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Munich, Germany; Munich Cluster for System 
Neurology, Munich, Germany; Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK; Ageing Epidemiology Research Unit, 
School of Public Health, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(14)Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, UK.
(15)Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, University 
Hospitals and University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(16)Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, University 
Hospitals and University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
giovanni.frisoni@unige.ch.

Over the last three decades, the evidence on how to best treat the cognitive and 
non-cognitive symptoms of patients with Alzheimer's disease has increased. 
Although these pharmacological and non-pharmacological strategies have 
significantly improved health outcomes for patients with Alzheimer's disease, 
many lack stringent evidence of efficacy. In this second paper of the Series, we 
provide practical and realistic advice on how to prioritise pharmacological and 
non-pharmacological strategies to ameliorate cognitive impairment and 
behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia. In this clinical 
environment, dementia specialists are faced with the challenge of holistically 
integrating the much anticipated and, in some respects, controversial anti-β 
amyloid monoclonal antibodies. Here, we present the current approval scenario of 
monoclonal antibodies, our view on how they might further contribute to improve 
patients' quality of life, and how they could be seamlessly integrated with 
existing best care options.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)01329-7
PMID: 40997839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests NCF declares consulting 
fees from Eisai, F Hoffmann-La Roche, Eli Lilly, Ionis, Biogen, and Siemens (all 
paid to the institution); payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speaker bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from F Hoffmann-La 
Roche; participation on data safety monitoring boards or advisory boards for 
Biogen; and a leadership or fiduciary role in Alzheimer's Society. CBe has 
received funding through their institution from The Hospital Research Foundation 
Group. CBa declares grants or contracts from Novartis, Johnson & Johnson, Novo 
Nordisk, Roche, ReMynd, Acadia Pharmaceuticals; consulting fees from Acadia 
Pharmaceuticals, American Association of Retired Persons, Eli Lily, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Johnson & Johnson, Novo Nordisk, Orion, 
Exciva, Sunovion Pharmaceuticals, Suven Pharma, Roche, Biogen, and TauRx; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from Harvard University Dementia Course. CM 
declares grants or contracts from Biogen and National Institute for Health 
Research (all paid to the institution); consulting fees from Eli Lilly; payment 
or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, 
or educational events from Eli Lilly and Eisai; support for attending meetings 
and travel from Eisai and Alzheimer's Association; participation on advisory 
boards or data safety monitoring boards for Eli Lilly, Novartis, Roche, 
Genentech, Eisai, Immunobrain, and Biogen. PC declares grants or contracts from 
Alzheimer's Association and Novo Nordisk (all paid to the institution); 
consulting fees from Eurofarma, Knight Therapeutics, and Roche; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from Aché, Danone, Lundbeck, Novo Nordisk, and Roche. OC was 
awarded an National Institute for Health Research Research Professorship 
(RP-2017-08-ST2-004), a UK Multiple Sclerosis Society grant (grant code 92), and 
funding from the National Institute for Health and Care Research University 
College London Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre and Medical Research Council 
(all paid to the institution); consulting fees from Biogen for participation in 
advisory boards; speaking honoraria from Merck; and participation on a data 
safety monitoring board for Novartis. KSF declares payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events from Novo Nordisk; and participation on Advisory Boards for Novo Nordisk 
and Eisai. TG-I declares grants or contracts from the National Institutes of 
Health, CureAlz, and MassCATS; payment or honoraria for lectures from Fundacion 
Tatiana de Guzman el Bueno; support for attending meetings and travel from The 
Centre for Networked Biomedical Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, 
University Complutense of Madrid; participation on data safety monitoring boards 
or advisory boards for Periscope-ALZ trial, MindImmune, and Mount Sinai 
Alzheimer Disease Research Center. ZI declares grants or contracts from the 
National Institute on Aging, Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Canadian 
Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging, Brain Canada, Alzheimer's Drug 
Discovery Foundation, Weston Foundation, and Gordie Howe CARES (all paid to 
institution); consulting fees from Eisai, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, 
Otsuka-Lundbeck, and Roche; participation on a data safety monitoring board for 
OCEANS study at Johns Hopkins and BioScel BXCL501; is Chair of the Canadian 
Conference on Dementia and Chair of the Canadian Consensus Conference on 
Diagnosis and Treatment of Dementia. CP declares consulting fees from Eli Lilly, 
Roche, and EISAI (all paid to the institution); payment or honoraria Fondation 
Assistance Publique – Hôpitaux de Paris for a presentation; participation on a 
data safety monitoring boards or advisory boards for Eli Lilly, Roche, and 
EISAI; a leadership or fiduciary role in Fondation Vaincre Alzheimer, 
Association Maladie à corps de Lewy, and France Alzheimer. RCP declares grants 
or contracts from the National Institute on Aging and the National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke (all paid to the institution); royalties from 
Oxford University Press and UpToDate; consulting fees from Roche, Genentech, Eli 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Nestle, Eisai and Novartis; educational materials from 
Medscape; participation on data safety monitoring boards or advisory boards for 
Genentech and Roche; and a leadership or fiduciary role in American Brain 
Foundation. RP declares grants or contracts from Roche, Biogen, and Elli Lilly; 
consulting fees from Roche, Biogen, Eli Lilly, Schwabe, Grifols, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol Myers Squibb, Novo Nordisk, AstraZeneca, and Eisai; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from Roche, Biogen, Eli Lilly, Schwabe, Novo 
Nordisk, Johnson & Johnson, and Eisai; support for attending meetings and travel 
from Roche, Eli Lilly, Biogen, and Eisai; a leadership or fiduciary role in 
InRAD Foundation; and receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing, 
gifts or other services from Roche. LR declares payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speaker bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Eli Lilly. GBF has received funding through the Private Foundation 
of Geneva University Hospitals from: Association Suisse pour la Recherche sur la 
Maladie d'Alzheimer, Geneva, Switzerland; Fondation Segré, Geneva, Switzerland; 
Ivan Pictet, Geneva, Switzerland; Race Against Dementia Foundation, London, UK; 
Fondation Child Care, Geneva, Switzerland; Fondation Edmond J Safra, Geneva, 
Switzerland; Fondation Minkoff, Geneva, Switzerland; Fondazione Agusta, Lugano; 
McCall Macbain Foundation, Toronto, Canada; Nicole et René Keller, Geneva, 
Switzerland; and Fondation Accompagnement, Écoute, Temps, Attention, Soutien, 
Geneva, Switzerland; has received funding through the University of Geneva or 
Geneva University Hospitals: for Investigator-Initiated Sponsored Studies from 
Roche, OM Pharma, EISAI, Biogen, and Novo Nordisk; has received funding for 
competitive research projects from: Horizon 2020, Innovative Medicines 
Initiative, Innovative Medicines Initiative 2, Swiss National Science 
Foundation, and Velux Foundation; has received consulting fees from Biogen, 
Diadem, and Roche; and has received payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisk, and GE HealthCare. All other authors declare no 
competing interests.


72. Lancet. 2025 Sep 27;406(10510):1389-1407. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)01294-2.
 Epub 2025 Sep 22.

New landscape of the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.

Frisoni GB(1), Hansson O(2), Nichols E(3), Garibotto V(4), Schindler SE(5), van 
der Flier WM(6), Jessen F(7), Villain N(8), Arenaza-Urquijo EM(9), Crivelli 
L(10), Fortea J(11), Grinberg LT(12), Ismail Z(13), Minoshima S(14), 
Ossenkoppele R(15), Zetterberg H(16), Petersen RC(17), Dubois B(18).

Author information:
(1)Memory Center, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, University 
Hospitals and University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
giovanni.frisoni@unige.ch.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Faculty of Medicine, Lund University, 
Malmö, Sweden; Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(3)Center for Economic and Social Research, University of Southern California, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Neuroimaging and Innovative Molecular Tracers (NIMTlab), Geneva 
University Neurocenter and Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland; Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Geneva 
University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland; CIBM Center for Biomedical Imaging, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO, USA.
(6)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience-Neurodegeneration, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands; Epidemiology and Data Science, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(7)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, Germany; 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Cologne, Medical Faculty, Cologne, 
Germany; Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated 
Diseases (CECAD), University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(8)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris Sorbonne Université, Pitié-Salpêtrière 
Hospital, Department of Neurology, Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease, 
Paris, France; Sorbonne Université, INSERM U1127, CNRS 7225, Institut du Cerveau 
(ICM), Paris, France.
(9)Environment and Health Over the Life Course Programme, Climate, Air 
Pollution, Nature and Urban Health Programme, Barcelona Institute for Global 
Health (ISGlobal), Barcelona, Spain; University of Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(10)Department of Cognitive Neurology, Fleni, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(11)Sant Pau Memory Unit, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau - Biomedical 
Research Institute Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica 
en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas, CIBERNED, Madrid, Spain; Barcelona 
Down Medical Center, Fundació Catalana Síndrome de Down, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Departments of Neurology and Pathology, The University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA; Global Brain Health Institute, The University 
of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA; Department of Pathology, 
University of Sao Paulo Medical School, São Paulo, Brazil.
(13)Department of Psychiatry, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(14)Department of Radiology, University of Utah, School of Medicine, Salt Lake 
City, UT, USA; National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(15)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, 
Lund University, Malmö, Sweden; Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, Netherlands; 
Amsterdam Neuroscience-Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(16)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden; Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of 
Neurology, London, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK; Hong 
Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, InnoHK, Hong Kong, China; Wisconsin 
Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine 
and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA; Centre for 
Brain Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India.
(17)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(18)Institut de la Mémoire et de la Maladie d'Alzheimer, IM2A, Groupe 
Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Sorbonne Université, Paris, France; Institut du 
Cerveau et de la Moelle Épinière, UMR-S975, INSERM, Hôpital de la 
Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

Alzheimer's disease involves a drastic departure from the cognitive, functional, 
and behavioural trajectory of normal ageing, and is both a dreaded and highly 
prevalent cause of disability to individuals, and a leading source of health and 
social care expenditure for society. Before the advent of biomarkers, 
post-mortem examination was the only method available to establish a definitive 
diagnosis. In this first paper of the Series, we review state-of-the-art 
diagnostic practices and the typical patient journey in specialist settings, 
where clinicians engage in a differential diagnosis to establish whether 
Alzheimer's pathology (cerebral deposition of β-amyloid and hyperphosphorylated 
tau) is a contributor to cognitive impairment. Biomarkers indicating 
dysregulation of β-amyloid and tau homeostasis, measured with PET and 
cerebrospinal fluid analysis, allow a molecular-level diagnosis-a mandatory step 
in defining eligibility for the recently approved anti-amyloid treatments. We 
anticipate that easily accessible blood biomarkers, already available in some 
countries, will lead to a new diagnostic revolution and bring about major 
changes in health-care systems worldwide.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)01294-2
PMID: 40997838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests GBF has received 
funding through the Private Foundation of Geneva University Hospitals from: 
Association Suisse pour la Recherche sur la Maladie d'Alzheimer, Geneva, 
Switzerland; Fondation Segré, Geneva, Switzerland; Ivan Pictet, Geneva, 
Switzerland; Race Against Dementia Foundation, London, UK; Fondation Child Care, 
Geneva, Switzerland; Fondation Edmond J Safra, Geneva, Switzerland; Fondation 
Minkoff, Geneva, Switzerland; Fondazione Agusta, Lugano, Switzerland; McCall 
Macbain Foundation, Toronto, Canada; Nicole et René Keller, Geneva, Switzerland; 
Fondation Accompagnement, Écoute, Temps, Attention, Soutien, Geneva, 
Switzerland; has received funding through the University of Geneva or Geneva 
University Hospitals: for investigator-initiated sponsored studies from ROCHE 
Pharmaceuticals, OM Pharma, EISAI Pharmaceuticals, Biogen Pharmaceuticals, and 
Novo Nordisk; has received funding for competitive research projects from: 
Horizon 2020, Innovative Medicines Initiative, Innovative Medicines Initiative 
2, Swiss National Science Foundation, and VELUX Foundation; has received 
consulting fees from: Biogen, Diadem, Roche; has received payment or honoraria 
for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from: Biogen, Roche, Novo Nordisk, GE HealthCare. OH declares 
consulting fees from AC Immune, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol Meyer Squibb, C2N 
Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi, 
Eisai, and Siemens. OH contributed to this manuscript from the inception of the 
Series in May, 2024, until Nov 26, 2024, when the first version was ready to 
submit. Once he was employed by Eli Lilly on Nov 26, 2024, he had no access to 
any subsequent manuscript versions or revisions and did not contribute to the 
project any further. EN declares grants or contracts from National Institute on 
Aging (paid to her institution). VG declares grants or contracts from Siemens 
Healthineers and GE Healthcare (paid to her institution); received payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Novo Nordisk and Janssen. SES declares grants or 
contracts from Barnes-Jewish Hospital Foundation and National Institute on 
Aging; consulting fees from Eisai and Novo Nordisk; payment or honoraria from 
Eli Lilly, University of Wisconsin, St Luke's Hospital, Houston Methodist 
Medical Center, Weill Cornell, University of Massachusetts, Zucker School of 
Medicine, Medscape, Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute University of 
Southern California, University of Washington, and University of Indiana; 
support for attending meetings and/or travel from National Institute on Aging, 
Alzheimer's Association and US Against Alzheimer's; participation on data safety 
monitoring boards or advisory boards from WHO, University of Washington, 
University of Indiana, and University of Michigan; a leadership or fiduciary 
role for Greater Missouri Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association, Global CEO 
initiative workgroup on Blood-Based Biomarkers, advisory group on Risk 
Evaluation Education for Dementia and Foundation for the National Institutes of 
Health Biomarkers Consortium; receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, medical 
writing, gifts, or other services from C2N Diagnostics. WMvdF has received funds 
from ZonMw, Nederlandse Organisatie Voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek (Netherlands 
Organization for Scientific Research), European Union Innovative Health 
Initiative, European Union Joint Programme Neurodegenerative Disease Research, 
Alzheimer Nederland, Hersenstichting CardioVascular Onderzoek Nederland, 
Health∼Holland (Topsector Life Sciences & Health), Dioraphte Foundation, 
Gieskes-Strijbis Fund, Equilibrio Foundation, Edwin Bouw Fund, Pasman 
Foundation, Alzheimer & Neuropsychiatrie Foundation, Philips, Biogen MA Inc, 
Novartis-NL, Life-MI, AVID, Roche BV, Fujifilm, Eisai, Combinostics for research 
programmes; holds the Pasman chair, all paid to her institution; is recipient of 
A Personalized Medicine Approach for Alzheimer's Disease, which is a 
public–private partnership receiving funding from ZonMW (73305095007) and 
Health∼Holland (Topsector Life Sciences & Health) (PPP-allowance; LSHM20106); is 
recipient of TAP-dementia, ZonMw (10510032120003); is recipient of the 
Innovative Health Initiative Joint Undertaking projects PROMINENT (101112145) 
and AD-RIDDLE (101132933), all paid to her institution; is consultant to Oxford 
Health Policy Forum, Roche, Eisai, and Biogen MA, all paid to her institution; 
has been an invited speaker at Biogen MA, Danone, Eisai, WebMD Neurology 
(Medscape), NovoNordisk, Springer Healthcare, European Brain Council, all paid 
to her institution; participated in advisory boards of Biogen MA, Roche, and Eli 
Lilly and is member of the steering committee of Novo Nordisk's Evoke/Evoke+ 
phase 3 trials, all paid to her institution; is member of the steering committee 
of PAVE, and Think Brain Health; and was associate editor of Alzheimer, Research 
& Therapy in 2020–21 and is associate editor at Brain. FJ declares grants or 
contracts from Value based health care in memory clinics (Roche); consulting 
fees from Abbvie, Biogen, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Grifols, Roche; payment or honoraria 
for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from Eli Lilly, Eisai, GE Healthcare, Grifols, Janssen-Cliag, 
Roche; participation on data safety monitoring boards or advisory boards for AC 
Immune; a leadership or fiduciary role in European Alzheimer's Disease 
Consortium, Deutsche Gesellschaft für Psychiatrie, Psychotherapie und 
Nervenheilkunde, German Memory Clinic Network board and InRad Foundation. NV 
declares grants or contracts from Union Nationale pour les Intérêts de la 
Médecine, Fondation Claude Pompidou, Fondation Alzheimer, Fondation pour la 
Recherche sur l'Alzheimer, Biogen, Eli Lilly, Roche, Eisai, Janssen/Johnson & 
Johnson, Alector, Novo Nordisk, UCB Pharma, Novartis and ABScience; receipt of 
equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing, gifts, or other services from Meso 
Scale Discovery. EMA-U declares grants or contracts from Ministry of Science and 
Innovation (PID2019–111514RA-I00 and PID2023–15333620B-100), Alzheimer's, 
Association research grants (AARG 2019-AARG-644641, AARG 
2019-AARG-644641-RAPID), the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation–State 
Research Agency (RYC2018–026053-I), and the European Social Fund, Research and 
Innovation Program of the Barcelona City Council, La Caixa Research (21s0906); 
is chair of the Reserve, Resilience And Protective Factors Professional Interest 
Area, International Society to Advance Alzheimer's Research and Treatment, 
Alzheimer's Association. LC declares grants or contracts from Alzheimer's 
Association (SG-21–814756-LatAm FINGERS, SG-21–715176-LATAM, and SG-23–1061591; 
all paid to her institution); support to attend the Alzheimer's Association 
International Conference (AAIC) 2024, as part of the Scientific Program 
Committee; is a chair of the World Young Leaders in dementia and declares 
participation in the WHO Neurology COVID-19 : Follow-up and Long-term Impact 
Working group. JF declares grants or contracts from Fondo de Investigaciones 
Sanitario Instituto de Salud Carlos III (Spain), National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) (USA), Generalitat de Catalunya, Fundació Tatiana Pérez de Guzmán el 
Buenon, Alzheimer's Association (USA), Brightfocus (USA), and Horizon 2020 
(European Commission), all paid to his institution; consulting fees from 
Lundbeck, Roche, AC Immune; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from Roche, Esteve, 
Biogen, Laboratorios Carnot, Adamed, Life Molecular Imaging, and Eli Lilly; 
holds a patent (WO2019175379) for A1 markers of synaptopathy neurodegenerative 
disease; participation on data safety monitoring boards or advisory boards for 
AC Immune, Alzheon, Roche, Eisa, Zambon, Eli Lilly, Ionis, and Perha; a 
leadership role for Spanish Neurological Society, T21 Research Society, Lumind 
Foundation, Jérôme-Lejeune Foundation, Alzheimer's Association, NIH (USA), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III (Spain); receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, 
medical writing, gifts or other services from Life Molecular Imaging. LTG 
declares grants or contracts from NIH, Rainwater Charitable Foundation, and 
Weill Neurosciences Hub, all paid to her institution; consulting fees from 
Guidepoint; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from Medscape, Otsuka Pharmaceutical 
Development & Commercialization; support for attending meetings and/or travel 
from Alzheimer Association and Rainwater Charitable Foundation; a leadership 
role in Global Brain Health institute. ZI declares grants or contracts from the 
National Institute on Aging, Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Canadian 
Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging, Brain Canada, Alzheimer's Drug 
Discovery Foundation, Weston Foundation, and Gordie Howe CARES (all paid to 
institution); consulting fees from Eisai, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, 
Otsuka-Lundbeck, and Roche; participation on a data safety monitoring board for 
OCEANS study at Johns Hopkins and BioScel BXCL501; is chair of the Canadian 
Conference on Dementia and chair of the Canadian Consensus Conference on 
Diagnosis and Treatment of Dementia. SM declares grants or contracts from Nihon 
Medi-physics, Zieteo Medical, Ceremark Pharma; consulting fees from Hamamatsu 
Photonics; holding a patent on an Angiopep-2 Mediated Brain-Targeted PTX 
Conjugate for the Treatment Of Alzheimer's disease; having a leadership or 
fiduciary role in RSNA R&E Foundation Board of Trustees and SNMMI Value 
Initiative. RO has received research funding and support from European Research 
Council, ZonMw, Nederlandse Organisatie Voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek 
(Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research), National Institute of 
Health, Alzheimer Association, Alzheimer Nederland, Dioraphte Foundation, Cure 
Alzheimer's fund, Health∼Holland, ERA PerMed, Alzheimerfonden, Hjarnfonden, Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen Research & Development, Roche, Quanterix, and 
Optina Diagnostics, all paid to his institution; declares consulting fees from 
Asceneuron, Bristol Myers Squibb, Biogen, all paid to his institution; has given 
lectures in symposia sponsored by GE Healthcare, all paid to his institution; is 
an editorial board member of Alzheimer's Research & Therapy and the European 
Journal of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging. RCP declares grants or 
contracts from the National Institute on Aging and the National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke (all paid to the institution); royalties from 
Oxford University Press and UpToDate; consulting fees from Roche, Genentech, Eli 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Nestle, Eisai and Novartis; payment or honoraria for 
educational activities from Medscape; participation on data safety monitoring 
boards or advisory boards for Genentech and Roche; and a leadership or fiduciary 
role in American Brain Foundation. HZ has served at scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZpath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, Enigma, LabCorp, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Quanterix, 
Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, ScandiBio Therapeutics AB, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures sponsored by 
Alzecure, BioArctic, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, LabCorp, Eli Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, Oy Medix Biochemica AB, Roche, and WebMD; is a cofounder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB, which is a part of the University of 
Gothenburg Ventures Incubator Program without any products on the market; and is 
co-chair of the Global Biomarker Standardization Consortium and chair of the 
International Federation of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine Working 
Group on Biomarkers for Neurodegenerative Diseases. BD declares grants or 
contracts from Roche, Fondation Merck-Avenir, Fondation Recherche Alzheimer, all 
paid to his institution; consulting fees from Qynapse, Aura; payment or 
honoraria for lecture from Schwabe Pharma; participation on a data safety 
monitoring board or advisory board for Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center and 
Acumen.


73. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Sep 25:13872877251374675. doi:
10.1177/13872877251374675.  Online ahead of print.

Inverse association of cancer with diagnoses of dementia in a large health 
claims case-control study.

Teipel S(1)(2), Akmatov M(3), Michalowsky B(4), Riedel-Heller S(5), Junghanss 
C(6)(7), Holstiege J(3), Bohlken J(5).

Author information:
(1)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Rostock, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine, Rostock University Medical Center, 
Rostock, Germany.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Healthcare Atlas, Central Research Institute 
of Ambulatory Health Care in Germany, Berlin, Germany.
(4)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Greifswald, Germany.
(5)Institute of Social Medicine, Occupational Health and Public Health, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(6)Clinic for Hematology, Oncology and Palliative Care, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Rostock University Medical Center, Rostock, Germany.
(7)Comprehensive Cancer Center Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (CCC-MV), Rostock, 
Germany.

BackgroundPrevious studies reported an inverse association of cancer with 
dementia risk.ObjectiveTo study associations of cancer diagnoses with risk of a 
dementia diagnosis in a large case-control study.MethodsWe included patients 
with a dementia diagnosis and controls matched 1:2 for age, sex, region, and 
earliest year of outpatient treatment in a case-control study from health 
insurance claims of outpatient consultations. Exposure included seventeen cancer 
categories. We compared the annual prevalence trajectories of cancer categories 
between dementia cases and controls over a period of 10 years before the index 
date. We report unadjusted odds ratios (ORs) and ORs adjusted for established 
dementia risk factors.ResultsWe included 1,686,759 patients with incident 
dementia and 3,373,518 matched controls. We identified four types of 
associations: Cancers with equal or lower prevalence in controls at year -10 and 
higher prevalence in controls after year 6 to 4 before the index date; with 
higher prevalence in controls at all time points; with a lower prevalence in 
controls up to three years before the index date and higher prevalence after 
that; and with equal prevalence in cases and controls until year -9 and a steep 
increase in controls after that. When using adjusted ORs the overall pattern of 
an inverse association of cancer with dementia was maintained.ConclusionsOur 
data suggest that a mixture of causes contributes to the inverse association of 
cancer and dementia diagnoses, including selective survival, underdiagnosis of 
dementia after cancer and of cancer in dementia, but also shared biological 
factors.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251374675
PMID: 40997226


74. Chem Biodivers. 2025 Sep 25:e01374. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202501374. Online ahead
of  print.

Gender-Specific Neuroprotective Effects of Carum copticum and Thymol: Restoring 
Cholinergic Function and Cognition in an Aluminum-Induced Rat Model of 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Ahmad S(1), Siddiqua A(1), Abbas E(2), Wasim M(3), Zia SR(4), Khan A(5), Siddiqi 
HS(1), Arain FM(1), Tabassum S(6), Khaliq S(7), Samad N(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Biomedical Sciences, The Aga Khan University, 
Karachi, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Baqai Medical University, Karachi, Pakistan.
(3)Maternal and Children's Health Research Institute, Shunde Women and 
Children's Hospital, Guangdong Medical University, Foshan, China.
(4)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Medical College, The Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Pathology and Pathophysiology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, College of Medicine, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.
(6)Department of Biosciences, Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science 
and Technology, Karachi, Pakistan.
(7)Department of Biochemistry, Arts and Technology, Federal Urdu University of 
Science, Karachi, Pakistan.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, Pakistan.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder causing 
memory loss. While treatments like donepezil and memantine offer limited symptom 
relief, natural compounds like Carum copticum Benth (Ajwain) and its active 
ingredient thymol show promising neuroprotective effects. This study examines 
the effects of C. copticum Benth and thymol, alone/combination, or with standard 
drugs, in an AD-like rat model induced by aluminum chloride and d-galactose. A 
total of 72 rats were divided into two groups of 36 each based on sex (male and 
female) and were then randomly assigned to six subgroups (n = 6 per group); 
healthy control, AD model, donepezil, memantine, C. copticum Benth, and C. 
copticum Benth + thymol. Behavioral tests assessed anxiety and memory. 
Biochemical analyses of the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus evaluated 
acetylcholine (ACh), acetylcholinesterase (AChE), and M1 receptor expression. 
Thymol's interaction with targets was studied via molecular docking. AD rats 
showed cognitive impairment, increased anxiety, reduced ACh, and elevated AchE. 
Treatment with C. copticum Benth and thymol significantly improved behavior and 
cholinergic function, comparable to standard drugs, and modulated M1 receptor 
expression. C. copticum Benth and thymol demonstrate therapeutic potential in 
AD, warranting further investigation as adjunct or alternative treatments.

© 2025 Wiley‐VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202501374
PMID: 40997028


75. Geriatr Psychol Neuropsychiatr Vieil. 2025 Sep 1;23(3):359-368. doi: 
10.1684/pnv.2025.1244.

[Remembering to age better].

[Article in French]

Durand F(1), Cuervo-Lombard CV(2), Jacus JP(2).

Author information:
(1)Master 2 psychologie gérontologie clinique, université Toulouse Jean-Jaurès, 
Toulouse, France.
(2)Centre d'études et de recherches en psychopathologie et psychologie de la 
santé (CERPPS, EA7411), université Jean-Jaurès, Toulouse, France.

This study aimed at determining the impact of cognitive stimulation workshops on 
various psychological variables on people with Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Forty-eight participants, divided into three groups (control, memory workshop 
group, reminiscence workshop group), completed: 1) the self-concept clarity 
questionnaire; 2) the anxiety and depression questionnaire; 3) the loneliness 
questionnaire; 4) the subjective well-being questionnaire; 5) the self-esteem 
questionnaire; 6) the reminiscence function questionnaire. Participants attended 
the cognitive stimulation workshops performed better on all variables than 
control participants (ps < 0.05). The reminiscence workshops were more effective 
than the memory workshops on all variables (ps < 0.05), except for the overall 
reminiscence functions score, differing only the reminiscence from the control 
group (p = 0.009). These results highlight the interest of reminiscence in the 
care of patients suffering from AD.

DOI: 10.1684/pnv.2025.1244
PMID: 40996414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Microbiol Mol Biol Rev. 2025 Sep 25:e0000725. doi: 10.1128/mmbr.00007-25.
Online  ahead of print.

Prions and protein aggregates as pathogens, self-propagating structures, 
biomarkers, and therapeutic targets.

Caughey B(1), Artikis E(1), Shoup D(1), Orrú CD(1), Alam P(1), Parveen S(1), 
King S(1), Soukup J(1), Hughson AG(1), Priola SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurological Infections and Immunity, Rocky Mountain 
Laboratories, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, Montana, USA.

SUMMARYMany mammalian diseases appear to be caused primarily by the abnormal 
accumulation of self-propagating assemblies of specific host proteins such as Aβ 
and tau in Alzheimer's disease, α-synuclein (aSyn) in Parkinson's disease, and 
prion protein (PrP) in classical prion diseases. Most proteinopathies involve a 
prion-like spreading of the aggregates from localized sites of initiation within 
the host and, sometimes, between individuals. Often, the pathological assemblies 
take the form of amyloid fibrils, the cores of many of which have been solved by 
cryo-electron microscopy, revealing disease-specific, strain-like conformers of 
the given protein. Amyloids grow via seeded polymerization, a mechanism that is 
being widely exploited to develop ultrasensitive and specific amplification 
assays for pathological seeds as biomarkers. Such assays can aid fundamental 
research, diagnostics, prognostics, and clinical trials for multiple 
proteinopathies that have been challenging to diagnose and treat. Here, we 
review the structural biology, transmissibilities, spreading mechanisms, and 
detection of proteopathic aggregates as well as therapeutic approaches to 
limiting their accumulation.

DOI: 10.1128/mmbr.00007-25
PMID: 40996260


77. Pak J Pharm Sci. 2025 Sep-Oct;38(5):1913-1931. doi: 
10.36721/PJPS.2025.38.5.REG.14310.1.

Isolation and characterization of a novel chalcone derivative from Arisaema 
utile a selective MAO-B inhibitor in sodium azide-induced rat model.

Khan MK(1), Saadullah M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, GC University Faisalabad, Pakistan.

This study aims to investigate the neuroprotective effects of Utilito, a novel 
chalcone derivative isolated from Arisaema utile in a sodium azide-induced 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) rat model. Anti-alzheimer activities were assessed 
through in silico molecular docking, simulation studies and in vivo studies. 
Utilito at doses of 100, 200, 300 mg/kg was administered in Wistar rats 
(n=6/group) for 14 days. Cognitive performance and locomotion were assessed 
through behavioural tests (Morris water maze, Y-maze, and open field). 
Biochemical assays measured the levels of oxidative stress biomarker including 
catalase (CAT) superoxide dismutase (SOD), reduced glutathione (GSH), and 
malondialdehyde (MDA). Molecular docking studies revealed a strong binding 
affinity of Utilito with monoamine oxidase (MAO-B), with a docking score of 
-41.4 kJ/mol. Conventional hydrogen bond interactions were observed between the 
MAO-B residues LEU171, TYR398, and TYR435 and the phenol ring of Utilito. 
Utilito also showed 71 ± 0.11% anti-oxidant activity in the DPPH assay. 
Behavioural tests utilizing animal models demonstrate the cognitive-enhancing 
effects of Utilito. Biochemical evaluations underscore the antioxidant 
properties of Utilito, offering valuable insights into their mechanisms of 
action at the cellular level. Utilito exhibits antioxidant activity and 
cognitive improvement in a rat AD model, suggesting its promise as a therapeutic 
candidate for AD.

DOI: 10.36721/PJPS.2025.38.5.REG.14310.1
PMID: 40996208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Cureus. 2025 Aug 24;17(8):e90873. doi: 10.7759/cureus.90873. eCollection 2025
 Aug.

Effects of a Dart Game Intervention in Community-Dwelling Older Adults with 
Suspected Mild Dementia: An Exploratory Study Using the Japanese Version of the 
Montreal Cognitive Assessment.

Iida T(1), Akane M(2), Nakata M(3), Ishizuki C(4), Miyashita R(5), Nishiguchi 
A(6), Hitotsubashi N(7), Sakamoto T(8), Kaneko S(9), Miyaguchi H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health and Welfare, Prefectural 
University of Hiroshima, Mihara, JPN.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, Kashiba Asahigaoka Hospital, Nara, JPN.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy, Yawata Medical Center, Ishikawa, JPN.
(4)Faculty of Health Sciences, Department of Rehabilitation Science, University 
of Kochi Health Sciences, Kochi, JPN.
(5)Department of Nursing, Women's Health Cares Nursing Master's Program of 
Midwifery Course, Kobe City College of Nursing, Kobe, JPN.
(6)Department of Health Care Facilities, IKI Health Care Facilities for the 
Elderly Requiring Long-Term Care, Kyouseikai Medical Corporation, Nagasaki, JPN.
(7)Department of Head Office Operations, ONEENTERPRISE Co. Ltd., Hiroshima, JPN.
(8)Department of Store Operations, NICE DARTS CLUB, Hiroshima, JPN.
(9)Department of Event Promotion, DARTSLIVE Co. Ltd., Tokyo, JPN.

BACKGROUND: With the aging of the population, awareness of various dementias, 
including Alzheimer's disease, is spreading. The causes of these dementias are 
being elucidated, while prevention is also becoming more important. Aerobic 
exercise, strength training, and flexibility exercise (physical exercise) alone 
are not sufficient to improve cognitive function, and dual-task activities that 
engage both physical and cognitive functions are effective for its prevention. 
Therefore, the present study investigated the effects of an intervention with 
dart games on cognitive function in older adults suspected of having mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) who reside in the community. Factors contributing to 
these effects were also examined.
METHODS: The intervention with dart games lasted for six months and was tested 
on healthy older individuals (aged ≥ 65 years) recruited from the community 
(Mihara City and Kumano Town in Hiroshima Prefecture and Iki City in Nagasaki 
Prefecture). The dart game intervention was the Count-Up and 01 Game, which took 
place every two weeks over a six-month period, with each session lasting 100 
minutes. Data from 62 participants with or without MCI were analyzed. An 
intervention was conducted in which older adults suspected of having MCI who 
reside in the community played dart games for six months. Cognitive function was 
assessed before and after the intervention using the Montreal Cognitive 
Assessment-Japanese version (MoCA-J) to evaluate the effects of the 
intervention. Participants were classified based on their MoCA-J scores, and 
those scoring ≤25 were categorized as suspected MCI. For those classified as 
suspected MCI before the intervention, it was determined whether they were MCI 
(non-improved MCI group) or not MCI (improved MCI group) after the intervention. 
In both groups, MoCA-J subdomain scores (orientation (six points), language 
(three points), visuospatial/executive function (five points), delayed recall 
(five points), abstraction (two points), attention (six points), and naming 
(three points)) were compared. The predictive ability of MoCA-J scores for MCI 
improvement due to the dart game intervention was evaluated using the area under 
the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC).
RESULTS: Among patients classified as suspected MCI before the intervention 
(n=27), 11 were in the non-improved MCI group and 16 in the improved MCI group 
after the intervention, with some subjects showing improvement in cognitive 
function following the intervention. In a comparison of the MoCA-J subdomain 
scores before and after intervention for those classified as suspected MCI 
before the intervention, improvements were revealed in "delayed recall 
(non-improved MCI group 0.0 vs. improved MCI group 2.5, median comparison)" and 
"attention (non-improved MCI group 0.0 vs. improved MCI group 1.0, median 
comparison)". The predictive ability of the dart game intervention to improve 
MCI for subjects classified as MCI before the intervention was determined using 
an ROC curve, with an AUC of 0.841. The optimal cut-off score based on Youden's 
index was 22 points.
CONCLUSION: The dart game intervention demonstrated potential cognitive 
benefits, particularly in brain regions associated with "delayed recall" and 
"attention." Among older adults with MoCA-J scores of approximately 22, 
participating in a six-month dart game intervention may help improve MCI.

Copyright © 2025, Iida et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.90873
PMCID: PMC12456100
PMID: 40995264

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Ethics Committee of the Prefectural University of Hiroshima issued 
approval (18MH031-01). Animal subjects: All authors have confirmed that this 
study did not involve animal subjects or tissue. Conflicts of interest: In 
compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the 
following: Payment/services info: NH, TS, and SK are part of the ONEENTERPRISE 
Co., Ltd, and DARTSLIVE Co., Ltd., which are funding this research. The 
corporations had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, 
analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the 
decision to publish the results. TI, MA, MN, CI, RM, AN, HM declare that the 
research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest. 
Financial relationships: Tadayuki Iida, Chinami Ishizuki, Hideki Miyaguchi 
declare(s) a grant from DARTSLIVE Co., Ltd. This work was supported research 
funds by DARTSLIVE Co., Ltd. Tadayuki Iida, Chinami Ishizuki, Hideki Miyaguchi 
declare(s) a grant from ONEENTERPRISE Co.,Ltd. This work was supported research 
funds by ONEENTERPRISE Co.,Ltd. and DARTSLIVE Co., Ltd. Other relationships: All 
authors have declared that there are no other relationships or activities that 
could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


79. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Sep 9;12:1529761. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1529761. 
eCollection 2025.

An MRI based histogram oriented gradient and deep learning approach for accurate 
classification of mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.

J A(1), Khan S(2), H AB(3), Albarrak AM(2), Ali A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering (Emerging Technologies), SRM 
Institute of Science and Technology, Vadapalani, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)College of Computer and Information Sciences, Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic 
University (IMSIU), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Rajalakshmi Institute of 
Technology, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(4)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Chandigarh University, 
Mohali, Punjab, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common form of dementia that affects the central 
nervous system, causing progressive cognitive decline, particularly in memory. 
Early, non-invasive diagnosis is critical for improving patient care and 
treatment outcomes. This study proposes a robust feature extraction approach 
combined with three classifiers to achieve optimal classification of AD stages. 
T1-weighted brain MRI scans were used as input data. Features were extracted 
using Harris Corner interest points and the Histogram of Oriented Gradients 
(HOG) method. Classification was performed using Support Vector Machine (SVM), 
K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN), and a Deep Neural Network (DNN)-based pipeline. The 
proposed system classified three AD stages-Control Normal (CN), Mild Cognitive 
Impairment (MCI), and AD-with high accuracy: KNN (88%), SVM (91.5%), and DNN 
(95.6%). The DNN approach outperformed other classifiers and was further 
compared with state-of-the-art deep learning models, demonstrating competitive 
performance. These results highlight the potential of the proposed framework for 
early, accurate AD diagnosis using non-invasive imaging.

Copyright © 2025 J, Khan, H, Albarrak and Ali.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1529761
PMCID: PMC12454378
PMID: 40995095

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


80. Antib Ther. 2025 Jun 27;8(3):197-237. doi: 10.1093/abt/tbaf014. eCollection
2025  Jul.

Structure and function of therapeutic antibodies approved by the US FDA in 2024.

Strohl WR(1).

Author information:
(1)BiStro Biotechnology Consulting, 1086 Tullo Farm Rd., Bridgewater, NJ 08807, 
United States.

In 2024, the Food and Drug Administration approved 47 new molecular entities 
(NMEs), including 15 therapeutic antibody-based molecules, marking the 30th 
anniversary of the first approved recombinant antibody. Ten of these were 
recombinant immunoglobulin G antibodies, while the rest comprised three 
bispecific antibodies, one immunocytokine, and one Fc-fusion protein. Seven 
antibodies targeted previously approved targets like programmed cell death 
receptor-1, programmed cell death receptor ligand-1, complement factor C5, 
interleukin (IL)-13, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) 
(biparatopic), and a novel form of amyloid-beta for conditions like esophageal 
squamous cell carcinoma, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, paroxysmal nocturnal 
hemoglobinuria, atopic dermatitis, biliary tract cancer, and Alzheimer's 
disease, respectively. The other seven recognized novel targets such as activin 
for pulmonary arterial hypertension, IL-15Rβγ agonist for bladder cancer, 
delta-like ligand-3 × cluster of differentiation-3 for small cell lung cancer 
(SCLC), IL-31 receptor for prurigo nodularis, colony stimulating factor-1 
receptor for graft-versus-host disease, tissue factor pathway inhibitor for 
Hemophilia A and B, and claudin 18.2 for gastric or gastroesophageal junction 
cancers. Additionally, a HER2-HER3 bispecific antibody was approved for non-SCLC 
and pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Three reformulated antibodies with hyaluronidase 
HP20 for subcutaneous administration were also approved, although not as New 
Molecular Entities (NME)s.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Chinese Antibody Society.

DOI: 10.1093/abt/tbaf014
PMCID: PMC12454936
PMID: 40994925

Conflict of interest statement: W.R.S. is the sole owner and employee of BiStro 
Biotech Consulting LLC, an independent consulting company. W.R.S. also serves as 
an independent Director for IGM Biosciences and also serves on the Scientific 
Advisory Boards of two other small biotechnology companies. W.R.S. is an 
editorial board member of Antibody Therapeutics, but is blinded from reviewing 
or making decisions for this manuscript.


81. Brain Commun. 2025 Sep 9;7(5):fcaf341. doi: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf341. 
eCollection 2025.

APOE genotype modulates the impact of sleep duration on locus coeruleus 
functional connectivity in pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease.

Gong L(1), Li H(2), Li M(2)(3), He Y(4), Liu D(1), Zhou W(1), Zhang B(1), Xi 
C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, West China School of Medicine, Sichuan University, 
Sichuan University Affiliated Chengdu Second People's Hospital, Chengdu, Sichuan 
610017, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Chengdu Medical College, Chengdu Second People's 
Hospital, Chengdu, Sichuan 610017, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Ya'an People's Hospital, Chengdu Medical College, 
Ya'an, Sichuan 625000, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, North Sichuan Medical College, Chengdu Second 
People's Hospital, Chengdu, Sichuan 610017, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Heifei, Anhui 230061, China.

Sleep duration and Apolipoprotein E genotype are critical factors influencing 
Alzheimer's disease progression. This study investigates the interaction between 
sleep duration and Apolipoprotein E genotype on the functional connectivity of 
the locus coeruleus in clinically unimpaired older adults with elevated amyloid 
beta, a population at risk for pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease. The study 
included 692 clinically unimpaired older adults with elevated amyloid beta 
participants from the Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer's Study 
(A4). Resting-state functional MRI data were analysed to construct locus 
coeruleus-based functional connectivity networks, and a 2 × 2 analysis of 
covariance was conducted to examine the main and interactive effects of sleep 
duration (normal versus short sleep) and Apolipoprotein E genotype (ɛ4- versus 
ɛ4+) on locus coeruleus-functional connectivity. Structural equation modelling 
was used to explore whether locus coeruleus-functional connectivity mediated the 
relationship between age and cognitive performance. Significant main effects of 
sleep duration and Apolipoprotein E genotype on locus coeruleus-functional 
connectivity were observed in the right temporal pole, middle cingulate cortex, 
and superior temporal gyrus. An interactive effect of sleep and Apolipoprotein E 
genotype was noted, influencing left locus coeruleus-functional connectivity in 
regions in the precentral gyrus, and right locus coeruleus-functional 
connectivity network in the middle temporal gyrus and lateral orbitofrontal 
cortex. Mediation analysis revealed that locus coeruleus-functional connectivity 
in the middle cingulate cortex and lateral orbitofrontal cortex partially 
mediated age associated cognitive decline. These findings suggest that locus 
coeruleus-functional connectivity networks, influenced by sleep duration and 
Apolipoprotein E genotype, play a crucial role in cognitive aging, particularly 
in memory function. Understanding these interactions may inform early 
intervention strategies to preserve cognitive health in older adults at risk for 
Alzheimer's disease.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcaf341
PMCID: PMC12455407
PMID: 40994826

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no competing interests.


82. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Sep;21(9):e70739. doi: 10.1002/alz.70739.

Relationship of antihypertensives with late-life cognitive decline and 
neuropathology.

Sood A(1), Capuano AW(2), Mehta R(1), Barnes LL(1), Bennett DA(1), Arvanitakis 
Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.
(2)Neurology and Public Health Departments, The University of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Antihypertensives (AHTs) are commonly used to treat high blood 
pressure and other conditions, but their associations with cognitive decline and 
common age-related neuropathologies are not well understood.
METHODS: More than 3300 participants from three harmonized community-based 
cohorts without baseline dementia were evaluated annually for changes in 
cognition and > 1800 participants were analyzed for post mortem neuropathology.
RESULTS: In a linear mixed effect model adjusted for age, sex, education, and 
race/ethnicity, AHT use was associated with higher baseline global cognition 
(p < 0.001) and slower decline (p = 0.002) in global cognition, episodic memory, 
and semantic memory (all p < 0.02) compared to non-use. In the autopsy group AHT 
use was associated with a lower tau tangle density (p = 0.004), but not with 
other neurodegenerative or cerebrovascular pathologies. These associations did 
not change after controlling for blood pressure or other comorbidities.
DISCUSSION: AHT use is associated with slower cognitive decline and lower tau 
pathology in late life.
HIGHLIGHTS: In this prospective study of > 3200 older, community-dwelling, 
persons followed for a mean of 8.6 years, those who used antihypertensive (AHT) 
medications during the study had slower cognitive decline, especially in 
episodic memory and semantic memory, compared to non-users. Among the > 1800 
deceased and autopsied persons, AHT medication use was associated with fewer 
paired helical filament-positive tau tangles (a marker of Alzheimer's disease) 
but not with other neurodegenerative or cerebrovascular pathologies, compared to 
non-users. Based on observational data from a large dataset, AHT use in older 
persons was related to slower cognitive decline and less Alzheimer's disease 
pathology.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70739
PMCID: PMC12461165
PMID: 40994416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.S. has nothing to disclose. A.W.C. has 
received funding from the NIH, The University of Wisconsin Medical School, and 
the Karolinka Institute. Additionally, A.W.C. has received a grant from the 
Alzheimer's Association and serves on a data safety monitoring board for 
Northwestern University and The University of Chicago. A.W.C. also holds a role 
with the American Statistical Association and the Alzheimer's Association's 
professional interest group. R.I.M. has received a grant from the NIH. L.L.B. is 
a deputy editor for Alzheimer's and Dementia. D.A.B. has received grants from 
the NIH and the Illinois Department of Public Health. Z.A. has received grants 
from the NIH and the Illinois Department of Public Health, as well as consulting 
fees from NovoNordisk, Amylyx, Eisai, CIRM, and Summus. Z.A. has also received 
honoraria from various academic institutions and Spire Learning, payment for 
testimony from Sotos Law Firm, and support for attending meetings from the 
American College of Physicians. Additionally, Z.A. has participated on the data 
safety monitoring board for NIH‐funded studies and is the specialty chief editor 
for Frontiers in Dementia. Author disclosures are available in the supporting 
information.


83. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2025 Sep 25. doi: 10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00508. Online
ahead  of print.

Histidine Focused Covalent Inhibitors Targeting Acetylcholinesterase: A 
Computational Pipeline for Multisite Therapeutic Discovery in Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Jaman S(1), Tasmi SF(1), Shahriar I(2), Halim MA(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Computer-Aided Drug Design, The Red-Green Research Centre, BICCB, 
16 Tejkunipara, Tejgaon, Dhaka 1215, Bangladesh.
(2)James Tarpo Jr. and Margaret Tarpo Department of Chemistry, Purdue 
University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, United States.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Kennesaw State University, 
Kennesaw, Georgia 30114, United States.

Alzheimer's disease affects over 10% of individuals above the age of 65, yet 
current treatments offer only limited and temporary relief. 
Acetylcholinesterase, a key enzyme in neurotransmitter breakdown, also 
contributes to disease progression by promoting β-amyloid aggregation. While 
previous studies have focused on the catalytic serine, a key proton transfer 
residue, His447 remains unexplored as a potential covalent binding site. In this 
study, we aim to interrupt the activation of Ser203 by covalently modifying 
His447, thereby shutting down the entire catalytic process. Here, we reported a 
computational pipeline to identify epoxide-based small molecules that covalently 
engage His447 and modulate AChE activity. From a curated library of >7,000 
epoxides, three ligands (L5, L6, L7) were selected via covalent docking, 
molecular dynamics simulations, and drug-likeness profiling. Microsecond-scale 
simulations revealed stable binding across multiple subsites, with L5 exhibiting 
the most consistent RMSD and compact Rg values. Covalent engagement of L5 and L6 
induced modest shifts in His447 (2.48 and 1.43 Å), whereas L7 maintained 
apo-like geometry. Furthermore, ADMET predictions indicated favorable profiles, 
with no cardiotoxicity risk. Our findings highlight His447 as a novel covalent 
target in AChE and support further in vivo investigation of the specificity and 
inhibitory mechanisms of these ligands.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.5c00508
PMID: 40994276


84. Biochemistry. 2025 Oct 7;64(19):4242-4253. doi: 10.1021/acs.biochem.5c00293. 
Epub 2025 Sep 24.

Structural Characteristics of Docosahexaenoic Acid and Eicosapentaenoic Acid 
Inhibiting Amyloid-β Fibrillation.

Yokoi T(1), Hayashi K(2)(3), Morihara T(2), Murai T(2).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Agriculture, Ehime University, 3-5-7 Tarumi, Matsuyama, 
Ehime 790-8566, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University, 2-2 Yamada-oka, Suita 
565-0871, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Medicine, Yamaguchi University, Minami-Kogushi 1-1-1, Ube, 
Yamaguchi 755-8505, Japan.

Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disease whose pathological hallmark 
is the fibrilization of the amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides. Omega-3 (n-3) 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), including docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and 
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), inhibit the Aβ aggregation in vitro; however, the 
molecular basis for the inhibition remained unclear. In this study, we analyzed 
the interactions of n-3 PUFAs with the partial peptides of 42-residue Aβ via 
molecular simulations. The analysis predicted that DHA and EPA were preferred 
over their derivatives in terms of the calculated free energy changes of the 
ligand-Aβ binding. The results of our simulations were validated using 
experimental methods, and the structural characteristics identified in in silico 
analysis were also confirmed to be important elements inin vitro experiments. 
This study enabled a mechanistic understanding of n-3 PUFAs to protect against 
Aβ fibril formation and offer a molecular basis for designing therapeutics 
against Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.biochem.5c00293
PMID: 40994157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Cent Nerv Syst Agents Med Chem. 2025 Sep 22. doi: 
10.2174/0118715249388723250910140541. Online ahead of print.

From Bench to Bedside: Cutting-Edge and Emerging Therapies for Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Sharma C(1), Mazumder A(1).

Author information:
(1)Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology (Pharmacy Institute),19 
Knowledge Park-II, Institutional Area, Greater Noida-201306, Uttar Pradesh, 
India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains one of the most pressing neurodegenerative 
disorders worldwide, with increasing prevalence and limited disease-modifying 
treatments. While recent clinical advances, including monoclonal antibodies like 
lecanemab and donanemab (early stage), show promise in slowing cognitive decline 
by targeting amyloid-beta pathology, their use is associated with risks such as 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA). Alongside these developments, 
preclinical innovations continue to explore novel mechanisms, including 
antisense oligonucleotides, TREM2 agonists, siRNA, mRNA-LNP platforms, and 
CRISPR-based gene editing. These approaches target tau aggregation, 
neuroinflammation, and genetic risk modifiers like APOE4. This review bridges 
the gap between preclinical research and clinical application by highlighting 
the mechanisms, therapeutic potential, and translational challenges of both 
established and emerging therapies. Emphasis is placed on biomarker-guided 
trials, model systems (e.g., iPSC organoids), and future directions to improve 
efficacy, safety, and global accessibility of AD therapeutics.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715249388723250910140541
PMID: 40993929


86. Curr Protein Pept Sci. 2025 Sep 22. doi:
10.2174/0113892037387954250901202157.  Online ahead of print.

Benzimidazole Derivatives in Alzheimer's Therapy: Exploring Multi-Target 
Pathways.

Gavade S(1), Dubey S(1), Tiwari P(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Dayananda Sagar University, Bengaluru, 
Karnataka-560111, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a leading cause of dementia worldwide and continues 
to be one of the most frequently diagnosed neurodegenerative disorders in adults 
aged 65 and older. While much progress has been made in exploring AD 
pathophysiology, there remains no current cure, and symptomatic treatment is the 
current standard at best. As life expectancy continues to rise, the global 
prevalence of AD is increasing, making it evident that new therapeutic 
strategies are sorely needed. The etiology of AD is complex and heterogeneous, 
with cholinergic dysfunction, taurelated dysfunction, amyloid cascade 
dysfunction, oxidative dysfunction, and neuroinflammation all contributing to 
the unique pathology. As a result, researchers are focused on safe and effective 
drug candidates capable of addressing all of these interrelated mechanisms. One 
group of such multidrug candidates is benzimidazole derivatives, which target 
numerous molecular targets, such as, but not limited to, cyclin-dependent kinase 
5 (CDK5), tau protein, acetylcholinesterase (AChE), betasecretase 1 (BACE1), 
serotonin receptor 5-HT4, cannabinoid receptor CB2R, and the gammaaminobutyric 
acid receptor A (GABA-A). This study reveals the multitargeting promise of 
benzimidazole- based compounds that regulate not just symptomatic pathways but 
also pathways that are responsible for modifying AD disease activity. Ongoing 
studies in this area may lead to the discovery of new drugs that can not only 
manage the symptoms but also change the trajectory of this serious disease and 
provide hope to millions of AD patients.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113892037387954250901202157
PMID: 40993924


87. Ann Hum Genet. 2025 Sep 24. doi: 10.1111/ahg.70025. Online ahead of print.

Association Between Different Types of Lipids and Alzheimer's Disease, 
Parkinson's Disease, and Epilepsy: A Mendelian Randomization and Bioinformatics 
Analysis.

Zhang J(1), Song A(2), Xiang Y(1), Liu J(1), Li B(1), Li X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygienic Toxicology, College of Public Health, Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin, China.
(2)Department of Student Affairs, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin 
Medical University, Harbin, China.

BACKGROUND: With the increasing prevalence of neurological disorders, such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and epilepsy (EP) worldwide, 
there is a growing burden on medical and healthcare resources. Therefore, it is 
crucial to identify the etiology of these diseases and implement targeted 
preventive, diagnostic, and treatment measures to address the existing shortage 
of medical resources. Lipids are integral components of biological membranes. 
They not only function in energy storage and maintaining cell structure but also 
play a pivotal role in intercellular communication and signal transmission. 
Hence, lipids may hold significant implications in the pathogenesis and 
progression of the aforementioned disorders.
METHODS: Utilizing two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) in this 
investigation, the IEU OpenGWAS database was analyzed to explore the potential 
causal association between 159 lipids and the mentioned conditions, with 
sensitivity analysis being performed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were 
obtained through data analysis of these three diseases in the GEO database, 
followed by enrichment analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network 
analysis.
RESULTS: The findings indicated a potential causal association between the onset 
and progression of these disorders and 20 lipids categorized into six groups, 
which include sterol esters (SEs), ceramides (Cer), phosphatidylcholine (PC), 
phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), phosphatidylinositol (PI), and triacylglycerol 
(TAG). Furthermore, these lipids were found to regulate biological processes and 
pathways associated with endocytosis, synaptic vesicular circulation, signal 
release, MAPK signaling pathway, PI3 kinase (PI3K)-AKT signaling pathway, 
dopaminergic synapses, and malaria infection. It is worth noting that based on 
the comprehensive scores of protein interactions in the STRING database, as well 
as their connectivity and association strength with other proteins in the 
network, heat shock factor binding protein 1 (HSPB1), which is closely related 
to lipids and has a relatively close relationship with diseases, was identified 
as a key protein for AD. Similarly, RAB3A was identified as a key protein for 
PD. CD160 serves as the key protein of EP.
CONCLUSION: This study, by combining MR with bioinformatics analysis, discovered 
the potential lipid-based biological processes, pathways, and biomarkers of AD, 
PD, and EP, respectively, suggesting new therapeutic targets for us, deepening 
our understanding of the mechanisms of neurological diseases, and providing 
support for future clinical interventions.

© 2025 University College London (UCL) and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ahg.70025
PMID: 40993834


88. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2025 Sep 24;16(1):492. doi: 10.1186/s13287-025-04588-9.

MiR-203a-3p in extracellular vesicles derived from mesenchymal stem cells 
alleviates BPD-associated apoptosis and inflammation.

An H(#)(1)(2), Kim YE(#)(3)(4), Jeong SD(2)(5), Kim EJ(2)(5), Lee Y(3), Bang 
Y(3), Kang D(4), Chang YS(3)(4)(5), Ahn SY(6)(7)(8), Kim HH(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of MetaBioHealth, SKKU Institute for Convergence, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Suwon-si, 16419, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(2)Research Institute for Future Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, 06351, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, 06351, Republic of Korea.
(4)Cell and Gene Therapy Institute, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(5)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Samsung Advanced Institute for 
Health Sciences & Technology, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, 06351, Republic of 
Korea.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, 06351, Republic of Korea. soyoon.ahn@samsung.com.
(7)Cell and Gene Therapy Institute, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea. soyoon.ahn@samsung.com.
(8)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Samsung Advanced Institute for 
Health Sciences & Technology, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, 06351, Republic of 
Korea. soyoon.ahn@samsung.com.
(9)Department of MetaBioHealth, SKKU Institute for Convergence, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Suwon-si, 16419, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea. hyeonhkim@skku.edu.
(10)Research Institute for Future Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, 
06351, Republic of Korea. hyeonhkim@skku.edu.
(11)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Samsung Advanced Institute for 
Health Sciences & Technology, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, 06351, Republic of 
Korea. hyeonhkim@skku.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is the most well-known disease 
contributing to mortality and long-term morbidity in premature infants. Although 
the pathogenesis of BPD is multifactorial, hyperoxia-induced lung injury and 
inflammation are recognized as major causes of BPD. Extracellular vesicles (EV) 
are known to function as a powerful cell-cell communicator by delivering their 
cargo including proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids such as microRNAs. EVs 
derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are recently reported as promising and 
effective therapeutic modalities for BPD.
METHODS: The therapeutic effects of MSC-derived EV were examined using a BPD 
animal model. Differentially expressed miRNAs were selected through miRNA 
sequencing. The regulation of target genes by miRNA was investigated by Western 
blot, RT-qPCR, Ago2 RNA immunoprecipitation, and luciferase reporter assay. The 
increase in therapeutic efficacy of EVs by miRNA was demonstrated by confirming 
the anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory effects of EVs secreted by HEK293 cells 
overexpressing miR-203a-3p.
RESULTS: Through an in vivo BPD animal model, MSC-derived EVs exhibited 
protective effects against hyperoxia-induced lung injuries. To define the 
molecular mechanisms by which MSC-derived EVs alleviate BPD, anti-apoptotic and 
anti-inflammatory effects were examined. MicroRNA-203a-3p (miR-203a-3p) present 
in MSC-derived EVs exhibited inhibitory effects on H2O2-induced apoptotic cell 
death by targeting inhibitor of differentiation 4, as well as on 
lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammatory cytokine expression by targeting myeloid 
differentiation primary response 88. Experiments with miR-203a-3p inhibitor 
revealed that miR-203a-3p was responsible for mitigative effects of MSC-derived 
EVs. Compared to EVs containing control mimic, EVs containing miR-203a-3p mimic 
exhibited higher anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings revealed that miR-203a-3p in MSC-derived EVs inhibited 
apoptotic cell death and inflammation, demonstrating that miR-203a-3p is a key 
player enabling MSC-derived EVs to exhibit therapeutic effects for BPD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13287-025-04588-9
PMCID: PMC12461954
PMID: 40993819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Human Wharton’s jelly-derived MSCs were obtained from a single 
donor with written informed consent, under protocols approved by the 
Institutional Review Board of Samsung Medical Center (IRB approval number: 
2016-07102-043; approval date: September 20, 2016; approval expiration date: 
September 15, 2025; title: Study on the selection of optimal mesenchymal stem 
cells from different sources for the treatment of chronic/intractable diseases 
including Alzheimer’s disease and musculoskeletal disorders). All animal 
procedures were reviewed and approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee (IACUC) of Samsung Medical Center (approval number: 20241016001) and 
were conducted in accordance with the National Institutes of Health Guidelines 
for Laboratory Animal Care as well as the institutional guidelines. All animal 
procedures were reviewed and approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee (IACUC) of Samsung Medical Center (Approval number: 20241016001; 
Approval date: October 24, 2024; Title: Investigation of the therapeutic effects 
and mechanisms of MSC-derived EVs in hyperoxia-induced lung injury in newborn 
rats) and were conducted in accordance with the National Institutes of Health 
Guidelines for Laboratory Animal Care as well as the institutional guidelines. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


89. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2025 Sep 24;13(1):198. doi:
10.1186/s40478-025-02115-8.

RNF168 dephosphorylation ameliorates cognitive decline in Aβ-based mouse models 
of Alzheimer's disease.

Ji MJ(#)(1), Li Y(#)(1)(2), Yang J(#)(1)(3), Wang K(4)(5), Sang S(1), Yang H(1), 
Tian C(1), Tang X(1)(6), Cai JH(1)(7), He T(1), Zhang C(1), Tang H(1), Cui T(1), 
Meng X(1), Cao X(1), Zhu J(8), Wang J(8), Cao JL(9), Gao D(10), Liu C(11).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Province Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology, Jiangsu Province Key 
Laboratory of Anesthesiology and Brain Science, NMPA Key Laboratory for Research 
and Evaluation of Narcotic and Psychotropic Drugs, School of Anesthesiology, 
Xuzhou Medical University, 209 Tongshan Road, Xuzhou, 221004, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Shanghai East Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Tongji University, Shanghai, 200120, China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)Central Laboratory, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, 200433, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Multi-Cell Systems, Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and 
Cell Biology, Center for Excellence in Molecular Cell Science, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Shanghai, 200031, China.
(6)Department of Anesthesiology, Jianhu People's Hospital of Jiangsu Province, 
Yancheng, China.
(7)Department of Anesthesiology, Sheyang County People's Hospital, Yancheng, 
China.
(8)The First School of Clinical Medicine, Xuzhou Medical University, 209 
Tongshan Road, Xuzhou, 221004, China.
(9)Jiangsu Province Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology, Jiangsu Province Key 
Laboratory of Anesthesiology and Brain Science, NMPA Key Laboratory for Research 
and Evaluation of Narcotic and Psychotropic Drugs, School of Anesthesiology, 
Xuzhou Medical University, 209 Tongshan Road, Xuzhou, 221004, China. 
caojl0310@aliyun.com.
(10)Key Laboratory of Multi-Cell Systems, Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and 
Cell Biology, Center for Excellence in Molecular Cell Science, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Shanghai, 200031, China. dgao@sibcb.ac.cn.
(11)Jiangsu Province Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology, Jiangsu Province Key 
Laboratory of Anesthesiology and Brain Science, NMPA Key Laboratory for Research 
and Evaluation of Narcotic and Psychotropic Drugs, School of Anesthesiology, 
Xuzhou Medical University, 209 Tongshan Road, Xuzhou, 221004, China. 
Chaoliu@xzhmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder among 
the elderly, with limited effective treatments available in clinical practice. 
Impaired glucose metabolism has long been observed in the brains of AD patients, 
yet the mechanisms linking metabolic signals to AD pathogenesis remain elusive. 
Our previous study demonstrated that growth signals regulate genomic stability 
through RNF168 phosphorylation. Here, we report that phosphorylation of RNF168 
at Ser60 is significantly elevated in the hippocampi of Aβ-based mouse models of 
AD. Genetic dephosphorylation of RNF168 S60 enhances DNA damage response, 
reduces double-strand breaks (DSBs), and ameliorates learning and memory 
deficits in Aβ-based mouse models of AD. Mechanistically, RNF168 S60 
phosphorylation impairs long-term potentiation (LTP) of mossy fiber-CA3 synapses 
in the hippocampus. Importantly, genetic dephosphorylation of RNF168 S60 rescues 
the deficits in Mossy fiber-CA3 synapse LTP, AD-related spine loss and Aβ 
pathology. Pharmacological inhibition of RNF168 phosphorylation by S6K1 
inhibitor PF-4,708,671 alleviated learning and memory deficits. Furthermore, we 
demonstrated that the anti-hyperglycemia drug metformin improved learning and 
memory by inhibiting RNF168 phosphorylation. Our findings provide a novel 
therapeutic target for addressing synaptic dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-025-02115-8
PMCID: PMC12462251
PMID: 40993809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


90. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2025 Sep 24;13(1):197. doi:
10.1186/s40478-025-02116-7.

Facilitated α-synuclein oligomer sharing among glial cells by a centrally acting 
connexin inhibitor attenuates a rapidly progressive multiple system 
atrophy-cerebellar type model by reducing the neuronal α-synuclein burden.

Harada M(1)(2), Masaki K(1), Tanaka T(1)(3), Sekiya H(4), Matsuse D(1), 
Yamaguchi H(1)(5), Nishimura Y(1), Takase EO(1), Tanaka E(1), Kira YI(1), 
Fujishima K(1), Matsuo E(1), Yamasaki R(1), Dickson DW(4), Suzumura A(6), 
Taniwaki T(2), Hoshino T(2), Isobe N(1), Takeuchi H(7)(8), Kira JI(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Neurological Institute, Graduate School of Medical 
Sciences, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-Ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, 
Japan.
(2)Division of Respirology, Neurology and Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, 
Kurume University School of Medicine, Kurume, 830-0011, Japan.
(3)Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., Osaka, 541-0052, Japan.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Duval, FL, 32224, USA.
(5)School of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Rehabilitation, Reiwa Health Sciences 
University, Fukuoka, 811-0213, Japan.
(6)Department of Neurology, Kaikokai-Jousai Hospital, Nagoya, 453‑0815, Japan.
(7)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine, International 
University of Health and Welfare, Narita, 286-8686, Japan.
(8)Department of Neurology and Stroke Medicine, Yokohama City University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, 236-0004, Japan.
(9)Department of Neurology, Neurological Institute, Graduate School of Medical 
Sciences, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-Ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, 
Japan. kira.jun-ichi.386@m.kyushu-u.ac.jp.
(10)Translational Neuroscience Research Center, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Fukuoka International University of Health and Welfare, Okawa, 831-8501, Japan. 
kira.jun-ichi.386@m.kyushu-u.ac.jp.

Glial connexins (Cxs) that make up astrocyte/oligodendrocyte gap junctions are 
extensively altered in multiple system atrophy-cerebellar type (MSA-C). Here, we 
investigated how Cx alterations affect the propagation of α-synuclein (α-syn) 
oligomers and phosphorylated (p)-α-syn aggregates in MSA-C using a centrally 
acting pan-Cx blocker, INI-0602. Our Plp1-tTA::tetO-SNCA*A53T transgenic (Tg) 
mice express mutant human A53T α-syn in oligodendrocytes after dietary 
doxycycline withdrawal at 8 weeks of age; they typically develop progressive 
ataxia around 22 weeks and die by 30 weeks. These Tg mice were intraperitoneally 
administered INI-0602 or vehicle from 18 to 26 weeks of age. Proximity ligation 
assay demonstrated that α-syn oligomers in small glial cells of the 
brainstem/cerebellum peaked at 10 weeks and maintained similar levels 
thereafter. In neuropil, α-syn oligomers appeared at 10 weeks, peaked at 
16 weeks, and decreased from 24 weeks. In large cells (neuronal somata or 
reactive astrocytes), α-syn oligomers continuously accumulated from 10 to 
30 weeks. By contrast, p-α-syn accumulated predominantly in oligodendrocytes 
from 24 to 30 weeks and later appeared in astrocytes, microglia, and neurons. 
Notably, double staining revealed that α-syn oligomers and p-α-syn were rarely 
colocalised. In the lesion centre with abundant p-α-syn deposits, both 
oligodendrocytic Cx47/Cx32 and astrocytic Cx43/Cx30 expression were extensively 
lost. Conversely, at the leading edges, Cx43 was upregulated despite Cx47 loss, 
resulting in abundant Cx43 hemichannels. INI-0602 suppressed increased 
hemichannel activity in the leading edges in acute slice culture and attenuated 
MSA-C and glial inflammation-thereby preserving Cx gap junctions-in Tg mice. 
INI-0602 treatment reduced neuronal α-syn oligomers and p-α-syn aggregates but 
facilitated α-syn oligomer dissemination throughout glial cells and neuropil. In 
human MSA-C, distinct distribution patterns between α-syn oligomers and p-α-syn 
deposits were also observed. Thus, increased sharing of α-syn oligomers via 
preserved Cx gap junctions may help attenuate MSA-C pathology by reducing 
neuronal α-syn aggregates.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-025-02116-7
PMCID: PMC12462231
PMID: 40993788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The animal experimental procedures were designed to minimise both 
the number of animals used and animal suffering. All animal experiments were 
conducted according to the guidelines for the proper conduct of animal 
experiments published by the Science Council of Japan. Ethical approval for the 
study was granted by the Animal Care and Use Committee of Kyushu University 
(approval number A22-283). The Animal Research Reporting of In Vivo Experiments 
(ARRIVE) guidelines for animal research were followed. All brain autopsies were 
performed with the consent of the legal next-of-kin or an individual with legal 
authority to grant permission for autopsy. The histological study of human 
tissue was approved by the Kyushu University Institutional Review Board for 
Clinical Research (22006-00). Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: K.M. reports a grant from JSPS KAKENHI (Grant No. JP23K06965) and 
speaker honoraria from Novartis Pharma, Biogen Japan, Alexion Pharma, Chugai 
Pharmaceutical, Argenx Japan, and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation. T.T. is 
employed by Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd. H.S. reports fellowships from the Japanese 
Society of Neurology, the Cell Science Research Foundation, and the Uehara 
Memorial Foundation. He is partially supported by the American Parkinson Disease 
Association Research Grant, the Multiple System Atrophy Coalition Research 
Grant, the State of Florida Ed and Ethel Moore Alzheimer’s Disease Research 
Program (24A08), and the Jaye F. and Betty F. Dyer Foundation Fellowship in 
progressive supranuclear palsy research. D.M. reports grants from JSPS KAKENHI 
(Grant No. JP24K10662) and the Health and Labour Sciences Research Grant on 
Intractable Diseases (Neuroimmunological Diseases) from the Ministry of Health, 
Labour and Welfare of Japan (23FC2001); and speaking fees and/or honoraria from 
Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd., Ono Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Kyowa Kirin Co. Ltd., 
Novartis Pharma, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., FP Co. Ltd., and Eisai Co. Ltd. 
E.T. has received honoraria from Novartis, Takeda Pharmaceutical, UCB Japan, 
Biogen Japan, and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharmaceutical. Y.K. has received honoraria 
for lectures from UCB Japan, Novartis Pharma, Chugai Pharmaceutical. R.Y. has 
received honoraria from Argenx, Ono Pharmaceutical, Takeda Pharmaceutical, 
Eisai, Novartis, PDR Pharma, UCB Japan, and Kyowa Kirin. N.I. reports grants 
from JSPS KAKENHI (Grant No. JP24K02371), AMED Japan (Grant No. 
24wm0625504s01001), the Health and Labour Sciences Research Grant on Intractable 
Diseases (Neuroimmunological Diseases) from the Ministry of Health, Labour and 
Welfare of Japan (23FC1009), Sumitomo Pharma, Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd., 
Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, Novartis Pharma, Biogen Japan, Yamasa Corporation, 
Kyowa Kirin Co., Ltd., and Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co., Ltd.; and honoraria 
from Alexion Pharma, Novartis Pharma, Argenx, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, Biogen 
Japan, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., UCB Japan, Ono Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., 
Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd., Teijin Healthcare Co. 
Ltd., Amgen Inc., and Eisai Co. Ltd. H.T. reports grants from JSPS KAKENHI 
(Grant No. JP21K07465 and JP24K10626), the Health and Labour Sciences Research 
Grant on Intractable Diseases (Neuroimmunological Diseases) from the Ministry of 
Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan (Grant No. 23FC1009), and the Naito 
Foundation; and consultancy fees, speaking fees, and/or honoraria from Alexion 
Pharma G.K., Biogen Japan Ltd., Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Cosmic 
Corporation Co. Ltd., Eisai Co. Ltd., Kowa Co. Ltd., Kyowa Kirin Co. Ltd., 
Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Novartis Pharma K.K., Ono Pharmaceutical 
Co. Ltd., Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., and UCB Japan Co. Ltd. J.K. reports 
research funds from Sumitomo Pharma, Daiichi Sankyo, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, 
and Yamasa Corporation; and consultancy fees, speaking fees, and/or honoraria 
from Novartis Pharma, Argenx, Biogen Japan, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., 
Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd., Alexion Pharma, and Kyushu University. The other 
authors declare that they have no competing interests.


91. J Transl Med. 2025 Sep 24;23(1):1009. doi: 10.1186/s12967-025-07064-3.

Synbiotics in Alzheimer's disease: mechanisms, clinical evidence, and 
therapeutic prospects.

Lin Y(#)(1)(2), Weng R(#)(3), Pan H(#)(4), Hou Y(5), Sun Y(6), Wen J(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Xiamen TCM Hospital, Fujian University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Xiamen, 361000, Fujian Province, China.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Xiamen Hospital, Dongzhimen Hospital, 
Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Xiamen, 361000, Fujian Province, China.
(3)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Xiamen Siming District Kaiyuan 
Subdistrict Community Health Service Center, Xiamen, 361000, Fujian Province, 
China.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, Henan Province Hospital of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450002, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Putuo Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 200062, China. houyangbo2021@163.com.
(6)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Putuo Hospital, Shanghai University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 200062, China. docsunyp@163.com.
(7)Department of Oncology, Shuguang Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 201203, China. tcmwjk@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Growing evidence implicates gut microbiota (GM) dysbiosis in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis via the gut-brain axis. Dysbiosis 
contributes to neuroinflammation, amyloid-β deposition, tau 
hyperphosphorylation, blood-brain barrier disruption, and cognitive decline. 
Synbiotics (combinations of probiotics and prebiotics) offer a promising 
strategy to modulate GM, potentially ameliorating these AD hallmarks through 
multiple mechanisms including enhanced production of neuroprotective short-chain 
fatty acids (SCFAs), reduced inflammation, improved gut barrier integrity, and 
immunomodulation.
OBJECTIVE: This review critically evaluates the current evidence on the 
therapeutic potential of synbiotics for AD. It aims to synthesize findings from 
preclinical and clinical studies regarding the efficacy of synbiotics in 
improving cognitive function and AD pathology, elucidate the underlying 
biological mechanisms including GM modulation, SCFA production, immune 
regulation, and gut-brain signaling, and identify key challenges and future 
research directions for translating GM-targeted interventions into effective AD 
therapies.
CONCLUSION: Synbiotics demonstrate significant potential, particularly in early 
AD, by improving cognitive domains, reducing neuroinflammation and AD 
biomarkers, and modulating beneficial microbial metabolites. However, challenges 
include confounding factors, unresolved questions about causality, inconsistent 
results in advanced disease, and insufficient large-scale human trials. Future 
success hinges on rigorous longitudinal randomized controlled trials integrating 
multi-omics approaches, advanced in vitro models, and personalized strategies 
considering baseline microbiota and host genetics. While not a standalone cure, 
synbiotics represent a valuable component within multi-target therapeutic 
approaches aimed at modulating the gut-brain axis to slow AD progression.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-025-07064-3
PMCID: PMC12462281
PMID: 40993787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interest.


92. Transl Neurodegener. 2025 Sep 24;14(1):49. doi: 10.1186/s40035-025-00510-8.

Targeting the glymphatic system: Aβ accumulation and phototherapy strategies 
across different stages of Alzheimer's disease.

Zhao D(#)(1)(2), Wang J(#)(3), Zhu Y(4), Zhang H(3), Ni C(3), Zhao Z(1)(3), Dai 
J(1)(3), He R(5), Liu G(6), Gan C(7), Zhang S(8), Tong Z(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Geriatric Hospital, Beijing, 100095, People's Republic of China.
(2)Westlake Univ, Sch Life Sci, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.
(3)Zhejiang Provincial Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders, The 
Affiliated Wenzhou Kangning Hospital, School of Mental Health, Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.
(4)The First School of Medicine, School of Information and Engineering, Wenzhou 
Medical University, Wenzhou, 325000, Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Mental Health, Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(6)Plastic Surgery Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, 
People's Republic of China.
(7)Plastic Surgery Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, 
People's Republic of China. gancheng@psh.pumc.edu.cn.
(8)Beijing Geriatric Hospital, Beijing, 100095, People's Republic of China. 
lanczsz@126.com.
(9)Beijing Geriatric Hospital, Beijing, 100095, People's Republic of China. 
tzqbeida@ccmu.edu.cn.
(10)Zhejiang Provincial Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders, The 
Affiliated Wenzhou Kangning Hospital, School of Mental Health, Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, People's Republic of China. tzqbeida@ccmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

The glymphatic system serves as the brain's clearance system. It deteriorates 
with age and is a significant contributor to the onset and progression of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Modulating cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-based clearance 
and targeting key components of the glymphatic system, such as aquaporin-4, can 
enhance amyloid-beta (Aβ) clearance. Light therapy is emerging as a potential AD 
treatment approach, which involves the use of visible and near-infrared light at 
specific wavelengths (630/680/808/850/1070 nm), photosensitive proteins, and 
sensory stimulation at particular frequencies (e.g., 40 Hz). This phototherapy 
strategy can broadly influence the intracerebral fluid dynamics, including 
cerebral blood flow, CSF, and interstitial fluid (ISF), as well as structures 
related to the glymphatic system, such as vascular endothelial cells, glial 
cells, and neurons. Additionally, it may directly or indirectly inhibit Aβ 
accumulation by modulating endogenous small molecules, thereby improving 
cognitive function. Our previous research demonstrated that 630-nm red light can 
inhibit Aβ cross-linking by clearing endogenous formaldehyde and promoting ISF 
drainage. Notably, Aβ accumulation exhibits distinct characteristics at 
different phases of AD, accompanied by varying features of glymphatic system 
impairment. In the early stages, deep brain regions are significantly affected, 
whereas in the late stages, accumulation primarily occurs in the paracentral, 
precentral, and postcentral cortices. Owing to the limited penetration depth of 
light, this may pose a challenge to the clinical efficacy of phototherapy. 
Therefore, different stages of AD may require tailored phototherapeutic 
strategies. Meanwhile, it is important to acknowledge the ongoing controversies 
associated with lymphovenous anastomosis, a procedure that targets the 
glymphatic system. Therefore, this article reviews the characteristics of 
glymphatic system impairment across various AD stages and the mechanisms by 
which effective phototherapies modulate the glymphatic system. Potential 
phototherapeutic strategies corresponding to different stages of Aβ accumulation 
are also proposed.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40035-025-00510-8
PMCID: PMC12459067
PMID: 40993746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.


93. Sci Rep. 2025 Sep 24;15(1):32705. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-20986-8.

Fibre supplementation alters the gastrointestinal microbiome, the microbial 
metabolites and indicators of neurodegeneration in a mouse model of Alzheimer´s 
disease.

Böswald LF(#)(1), Wenderlein J(#)(2)(3), Bachmann M(2)(4), Zeyner A(4), Neuhaus 
K(5), Schäfer F(6), Imhof A(6), Lahiri S(6), Gruetzke J(2), Popper B(7).

Author information:
(1)Core Facility Animal Models, Biomedical Center, Medical Faculty, 
Ludwig-Maximilians- Universität München, Großhaderner Str. 9, DE-82152, 
Planegg-Martinsried, Germany. Linda.boeswald@lmu.de.
(2)German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment, Max-Dohrn-Str. 8-10, 10589, 
Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Institute 
for Infectious Diseases and Zoonoses, LMU Munich, Veterinärstr. 5, 
Oberschleißheim, Germany.
(4)Institute of Agricultural and Nutritional Sciences, Martin Luther University 
Halle- Wittenberg, Theodor-Lieser-Str. 11, 06120, Halle (Saale), Germany.
(5)Core Facility Microbiome, ZIEL Institute for Food & Health, Technical 
University of Munich, Weihenstephaner Berg 3, Freising, Germany.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, Biomedical Center, Protein Analysis Unit, 
Ludwig-Maximilians- Universität München, Großhaderner Str. 9, DE-82152, 
Planegg-Martinsried, Germany.
(7)Core Facility Animal Models, Biomedical Center, Medical Faculty, 
Ludwig-Maximilians- Universität München, Großhaderner Str. 9, DE-82152, 
Planegg-Martinsried, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer´s disease is a neurodegenerative disease with high global prevalence 
and no cure available. It is known that the microbiota-gut-brain-axis plays a 
role in the pathogenesis, but the pathways are not fully understood yet. To 
elucidate the role of dietary fibre supplementation on this axis in a 5xFAD 
mouse model of Alzheimer´s disease, a feeding trial with an inulin supplement 
was conducted. At the start (Basis, n = 11) and after 7 weeks with (AD + F; 
n = 15) and without (AD; n = 15) supplementation, the mice were sacrificed and 
the following samples were taken: ingesta for 16 S rRNA sequencing and 
short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) analysis, and brain tissue for amyloid-beta 
staining and proteome analysis. The microbiota patterns in stomach, small 
intestine, caecum and colon differed between AD and AD + F. SCFA concentrations 
were significantly higher in group AD + F as compared to AD and Basis. In the AD 
mice, plaque load was significantly increased as compared to Basis, while a 
reduction in AD + F as compared to AD was observed. The brain proteome also 
differed between AD + F and AD, indicating a beneficial effect of the inulin 
supplementation, possibly mediated in part by microbial acetate. Since prebiotic 
substances like inulin are also part of human diets, this should be investigated 
further in the translational context.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-20986-8
PMCID: PMC12460888
PMID: 40993201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: The animal trial was conducted 
in accordance with the appropriate European and German animal welfare 
legislations and ethical regulations (5.1–231 5682/LMU/BMC/ project reference 
number CAM 2023-011). The project was approved by the animal welfare body of the 
Core Facility Animal Models, BMC, LMU, and all conditions regarding the use of 
animals are reported in accordance with the ARRIVE guidelines.


94. Sci Rep. 2025 Sep 24;15(1):32725. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-17055-5.

The long-term neuroprotective effect of MIND and Mediterranean diet on patients 
with Alzheimer's disease.

Liu X(1), Yang B(2), Liu Q(2), Gao M(2), Luo M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Nutrition, Huadu District People's Hospital of 
Guangzhou, 48 Xinhua Road, Huadu District, Guangzhou City, 510800, Guangdong 
Province, China. lcyyk1102@126.com.
(2)Department of Clinical Nutrition, Huadu District People's Hospital of 
Guangzhou, 48 Xinhua Road, Huadu District, Guangzhou City, 510800, Guangdong 
Province, China.

Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with no cure, 
making preventive strategies crucial. Dietary interventions, particularly the 
Mediterranean (MeDi) and MIND diets, have been associated with reduced cognitive 
decline, but their long-term comparative effects remain underexplored. To 
compare the long-term neuroprotective effects of the Mediterranean and MIND 
diets in healthy individuals and AD patients, assess dietary adherence and 
cognitive function relationships, and investigate the impact of micronutrients 
on cognitive biomarkers. A 5-year prospective cohort study was conducted with 
1500 participants (750 healthy controls, 750 AD patients). Dietary adherence was 
assessed using validated dietary screening tools. Cognitive function was 
evaluated via MMSE and MoCA scores, while biomarkers (amyloid-beta, tau, NfL, 
CRP, IL-6, TNF-α, polyphenols, omega-3, and B vitamins) were measured through 
blood and CSF samples. Machine learning techniques were utilized to analyze 
dietary patterns and predict cognitive trajectories. Higher adherence to both 
diets was associated with significantly better cognitive scores (p < 0.0001), 
lower amyloid-beta, tau, and NfL levels, and reduced inflammatory markers (CRP, 
IL-6, TNF-α). The MIND diet showed a slightly stronger association with 
cognitive protection than MeDi. Micronutrients such as polyphenols, omega-3, and 
B vitamins correlated with improved cognitive performance. Genetic analysis 
suggested that APOE-ε4 carriers may experience variable responses to dietary 
interventions. The Mediterranean and MIND diets provide significant 
neuroprotection against cognitive decline and AD progression. While both diets 
confer benefits, the MIND diet demonstrated a marginally greater impact on 
cognitive preservation. These findings underscore the importance of dietary 
interventions as non-pharmacological strategies for AD prevention and 
management. Further research is needed to optimize dietary recommendations based 
on genetic predisposition and metabolic factors.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-17055-5
PMCID: PMC12460835
PMID: 40993193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


95. Commun Biol. 2025 Sep 24;8(1):1352. doi: 10.1038/s42003-025-08674-9.

Association of genetic scores related to insulin resistance with neurological 
outcomes in ancestrally diverse cohorts from the Trans-Omics for Precision 
Medicine (TOPMed) program.

Sarnowski C(1), Zhang Y(2), Ammous F(3)(4), Shade LMP(5), DiCorpo D(2), Jian 
X(6), Arnett DK(7), Austin TR(8)(9), Beiser A(2)(10)(11), Bis JC(8)(12), 
Blangero J(13), Boerwinkle E(14)(15), Bressler J(14), Curran JE(13), DeCarli 
CS(16), Doddapaneni H(15), Dupuis J(2)(17), Fardo DW(5)(18), Florez 
JC(19)(20)(21)(22), Gabriel S(23), Gibbs RA(15), Glahn DC(24)(25)(26), Gupta 
N(23), González HM(27), González KA(27), Hatzikotoulas K(28), Hayden KM(29), 
Heckbert SR(8)(9), Hidalgo B(30), Huerta-Chagoya A(21), Hughes TM(31), Kardia 
SLR(3), Kooperberg CL(32), Launer LJ(33), Longstreth WT Jr(9)(34); T2DGGI 
consortium; MAGIC consortium; Mandla R(21)(35), Mathias RA(36), Morris 
AP(28)(37)(38), Mosley TH(39), Nasrallah IM(40), Nyquist P(41), Psaty 
BM(8)(9)(12)(42), Qi Q(43)(44), Raffield LM(45), Rayner NW(28), Reiner 
AP(9)(32), Satizabal CL(6)(10)(11), Selvin E(46), Sevilla-Gonzalez 
MDR(21)(22)(47), Smith AV(48), Smith JA(3)(4), Smith K(19)(20)(21), Snively 
BM(49), Southam L(28), Sofer T(50)(51)(52), Suzuki K(37)(53)(54), Taylor 
HJ(55)(56)(57), Udler MS(19)(20)(21)(22), Viaud-Martinez KA(58), 
Wassertheil-Smoller S(44), Wood AC(59), Yanek LR(36), Yin X(48)(60), Manning 
AK(21)(22)(47), Rotter JI(61), Rich SS(62), Meigs JB(21)(22)(63), Fornage 
M(14)(64), Seshadri S(6)(10)(11), Morrison AC(14); TOPMed Diabetes working 
group; and the TOPMed Neurocognitive working group.

Collaborators: Boerwinkle E, Glahn DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, 
The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA. 
Chloe.Sarnowski@uth.tmc.edu.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(4)Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(6)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases, The 
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(7)Office of the Provost, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA.
(8)Cardiovascular Health Research Unit, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
USA.
(9)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(11)The Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA, USA.
(12)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(13)Division of Human Genetics and South Texas Diabetes and Obesity Institute, 
University of Texas Rio Grande Valley School of Medicine, Brownsville, TX, USA.
(14)Department of Epidemiology, Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, 
The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(15)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, 
USA.
(16)Department of Neurology, University of California, Davis, CA, USA.
(17)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, School of 
Population and Global Health, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(18)Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(19)Diabetes Unit, Endocrine Division, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(20)Center for Genomic Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(21)Programs in Metabolism and Medical & Population Genetics, Broad Institute of 
MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(22)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(23)Genomics Platform, Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(24)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Boston Children's 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(25)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(26)Olin Neuropsychiatry Research Center, Institute of Living, Hartford, CT, 
USA.
(27)Department of Neurosciences and the Shiley-Marcos Alzheimer's Disease 
Research Center, University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA.
(28)Institute of Translational Genomics, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German 
Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(29)Department of Social Sciences and Health Policy, Wake Forest University 
School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(30)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(31)Departments of Internal Medicine and Epidemiology and Prevention, Wake 
Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(32)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(33)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Population Sciences, National Institute on 
Aging, NIA/NIH/IRP, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(34)Department of Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(35)Diabetes Unit and Center for Genomic Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(36)GeneSTAR Research Program, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(37)Division of Musculoskeletal and Dermatological Sciences, Centre for Genetics 
and Genomics Versus Arthritis, Centre for Musculoskeletal Research, University 
of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(38)Estonian Genome Centre, Institute of Genomics, University of Tartu, Tartu, 
Estonia.
(39)Department of Medicine, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, 
MS, USA.
(40)Department of Radiology, Center for Biomedical Image Computing and 
Analytics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(41)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.
(42)Department of Health Systems and Population Health, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(43)Department of Nutrition, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(44)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(45)Department of Genetics, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(46)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(47)Clinical and Translational Epidemiology Unit, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(48)Department of Biostatistics, Center for Statistical Genetics, University of 
Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(49)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, Wake Forest University School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(50)Cardiovascular Institute, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(51)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(52)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(53)Department of Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases, Graduate School of Medicine, 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(54)Department of Statistical Genetics, Osaka University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Suita, Japan.
(55)Center for Precision Health Research, National Human Genome Research 
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(56)British Heart Foundation Cardiovascular Epidemiology Unit, Department of 
Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(57)Heart and Lung Research Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(58)Illumina Laboratory Services, Illumina, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA.
(59)USDA/ARS Children Nutrition Research Center, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(60)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, China.
(61)Department of Pediatrics, The Institute for Translational Genomics and 
Population Sciences, The Lundquist Institute for Biomedical Innovation at 
Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, CA, USA.
(62)Center for Public Health Genomics, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, 
VA, USA.
(63)Division of General Internal Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(64)The Brown Foundation Institute of Molecular Medicine for the Prevention of 
Human Diseases, McGovern Medical School, Houston, TX, USA.

To better characterize the potential biological mechanisms underlying insulin 
resistance (IR) and dementia, we derive cross-population and population specific 
polygenic scores [PSs] for fasting insulin and IR-related partitioned PSs 
[pPSs]. We conduct a cross-sectional study of the associations of these genetic 
scores with neurological outcomes in >17k participants (36% men, mean age 
55 yrs) from the Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine (TOPMed) program (50% 
Non-Hispanic White, 23% Black/African American, 21% Hispanic/Latino American, 
and 4% Asian American). We report significant negative associations (P < 0.002) 
of the cross-population (P = 1.3 × 10-5) and European (PEA = 3.0 × 10-8) fasting 
insulin PSs with total cranial volume, and of a metabolic syndrome European PS 
with general cognitive function (BEA = -0.13, PEA = 0.0002) and lateral 
ventricular volume (BEA = 0.09, PEA = 0.002). We identify suggestive negative 
associations (P < 0.007) of metabolic syndrome and obesity pPSs with general 
cognitive function, and of lipodystrophy pPSs with total cranial volume. A 
higher genetic predisposition to IR is associated with lower brain size, and a 
genetic predisposition to specific IR-related type 2 diabetes subtypes, such as 
metabolic syndrome and mechanisms of IR mediated through obesity and 
lipodystrophy, is potentially involved in cognitive decline.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s42003-025-08674-9
PMCID: PMC12460837
PMID: 40993182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: L.M.R. and S.S.R. are 
consultants for the TOPMed Administrative Coordinating Center (through Westat). 
B.M.P. serves on the Steering Committee of the Yale Open Data Access Project 
funded by Johnson & Johnson. All the other authors declare that they have no 
competing interests. The views expressed in this manuscript are those of the 
authors and do not necessarily represent the views of the National Heart, Lung, 
and Blood Institute; the National Institute on Aging; or the National Institutes 
of Health. Ethics approval and consent to participate: All study participants 
provided informed consent, and each study was approved by their respective 
institutional review boards.


96. Exp Neurol. 2025 Sep 22;395:115475. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115475.
Online  ahead of print.

Evaluating the impact of age and treatment on neuroinflammation-related proteins 
in mouse models of proteinopathies.

Dahlén AD(1), Roshanbin S(1), Bucher NM(1), Sehlin D(1), Syvänen S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Section of Molecular 
Geriatrics, Uppsala University, Sweden.
(2)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Section of Molecular 
Geriatrics, Uppsala University, Sweden. Electronic address: stina.syvanen@uu.se.

Neuroinflammation plays a key role in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the actions 
of microglial mediators may vary across stages of amyloid-beta (Aβ) pathology. 
While drugs targeting brain immune responses are advancing to clinical trials, 
biomarkers to monitor their effects are lacking. This study investigated 
proteins expressed by activated microglia in three mouse models of Aβ pathology 
and α-synuclein, both during disease progression and after treatment, to 
evaluate their potential as in vivo biomarkers. Immunofluorescent staining was 
performed on cortical sections from AppNL-G-F, tg-ArcSwe, and wild-type (WT) 
mice. TREM2, Axl, galectin-3, Aβ, and cytokines were measured by immunoassays in 
brain homogenates from WT, AppNL-G-F, tg-ArcSwe, and tg-UppSwe mice across four 
age groups and from mice subjected to three treatment strategies targeting Aβ 
(beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) inhibitor NB-360 
and antibody RmAb158) or α-synuclein (antibody RmAb38E2). TREM2 and Axl 
colocalized with Iba1 and Aβ in AppNL-G-F and tg-ArcSwe mice, with age-dependent 
increases observed in both models but not in tg-UppSwe. The lectin galectin-3 
increased with age across all genotypes, including WT. Aβ correlated with 
elevated TREM2, Axl, and Galectin-3. Two months of BACE1-inhibition reduced 
TREM2, Axl, and galectin-3 in tg-ArcSwe mice and TREM2 and Axl in AppNL-G-F 
mice. In summary, microglial TREM2, Axl, and galectin-3 are promising biomarkers 
for tracking AD-related neuroinflammation. Microglial interactions with Aβ 
likely influence the outcomes of Aβ-targeting therapies, and characterizing 
their dynamic states will inform the development of diagnostic tools and 
treatments relying on microglial activation to alleviate pathologies associated 
with neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2025.115475
PMID: 40992617

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Stina Syvänen reports financial 
support was provided by Swedish Research Council. Dag Sehlin reports financial 
support was provided by Swedish Research Council. Stina Syvänen reports 
financial support was provided by Swedish Alzheimer Foundation. Stina Syvänen 
reports financial support was provided by Swedish Brain Foundation. Stina 
Syvänen reports financial support was provided by Swedish Parkinson Foundation. 
Stina Syvänen reports financial support was provided by King Gustaf V and Queen 
Victoria's Masonic Foundation. Amelia D Dahlén reports financial support was 
provided by Gun and Bertil Stohnes Foundation. Amelia D Dahlén reports financial 
support was provided by Foundation for Old Maids. If there are other authors, 
they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


97. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2025 Sep 22;142:111506. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2025.111506. Online ahead of print.

New frontier for epilepsy treatment through targeting cellular senescence.

Bello ST(1), Rafe MR(2), Huang F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region; Centre for Regenerative Medicine and Health, Hong 
Kong Institute of Science & Innovation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, New 
Territories, Hong Kong, China. Electronic address: stbello2-c@my.cityu.edu.hk.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region; Centre for Regenerative Medicine and Health, Hong 
Kong Institute of Science & Innovation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, New 
Territories, Hong Kong, China.

Epilepsy is a life-threatening brain disorder that affects about 1-2 % of the 
world's population. Various mechanisms facilitating epilepsy development and 
seizure propagation have been identified. Nevertheless, an improved 
understanding of the cellular mechanisms that underlie epilepsy development is 
necessary for designing better therapeutic strategies for epilepsy treatment. 
Cellular senescence, a cellular mechanism wherein cell growth is permanently 
halted and causes cells to exit the proliferative pool, has been associated with 
neurological disorders such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, and epilepsy. How the various mechanisms that drive a cell 
towards senescence and the phenotypes that characterize senescent cells are 
associated with the development and progression of epilepsy might be necessary 
in improving our understanding of epilepsy. Therefore, this review discusses the 
mechanisms and pathways associated with cellular senescence and how 
senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) promotes inflammation and 
tissue dysfunction. We then explained how different types of cells, including 
brain cells, become senescent, the inter-relationship between cellular 
senescence and epilepsy, and potential biomarkers common to epilepsy and 
cellular senescence. Finally, we reviewed the use of senolytics and senomorphics 
for epilepsy treatment. Further research can, therefore, be directed towards a 
thorough understanding of cellular senescence in epilepsy development, and this 
can open new frontiers for epilepsy treatment.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2025.111506
PMID: 40992534

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no competing interests to declare.


98. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Sep 23;192:118598. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118598.  Online ahead of print.

Neuroinflammatory suppression with protocatechuic acid attenuates Alzheimer's 
disease phenotypes in 5 ×FAD transgenic mice.

Kim Y(1), Cho M(2), Jeon CJ(3), Goh G(4), Kim M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, 
Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566, Republic of Korea; KNU G-LAMP 
Project Group, KNU Institute of Basic Sciences, Kyungpook National University, 
Daegu 41566, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: yunsu531@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Integrative Biology, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, 
Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566, Republic of Korea. Electronic 
address: cho981023@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Biology, College of Natural Sciences, Kyungpook National 
University, Daegu 41566, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
cjjeon@knu.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Statistics, College of Natural Sciences, Kyungpook National 
University, Daegu 41566, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: ggoh@knu.ac.kr.
(5)KNU G-LAMP Project Group, KNU Institute of Basic Sciences, Kyungpook National 
University, Daegu 41566, Republic of Korea; Department of Statistics, College of 
Natural Sciences, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: myungjin_kim@knu.ac.kr.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a 
complex pathobiology that includes neuroinflammation, the accumulation of 
extracellular amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaque, and intracellular neurofibrillary 
tangles comprising tau. Increasing evidence suggests that the aberrant 
activation of glial cells, including microglia and astrocytes, is a significant 
early characteristic that accelerates neuroinflammatory processes in the 
development of AD. Protocatechuic acid (PCA), a natural phenolic compound, has 
been investigated for its anti-inflammatory properties in various pathological 
conditions. Here, we demonstrated that administration of PCA significantly 
ameliorated neuroinflammation as well as cognitive deficits in the 5 ×FAD mouse 
model of AD, which overexpresses human amyloid precursor protein (APP) and 
presenilin-1 (PSEN1) genes carrying five familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) 
mutations, leading to accelerated Aβ deposition. We further confirmed that PCA 
treatment significantly reduced microglial activation and downregulated the 
production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, astrogliosis, and tau 
hyperphosphorylation, thereby preserved the integrity of hippocampal neurons. 
Our RNA sequencing analysis revealed that PCA treatment restored the 
transcriptomic profile of hippocampal tissues in 5 ×FAD mice, particularly by 
downregulating genes associated with innate immune and inflammatory responses. 
Moreover, PCA alleviated gut dysbiosis and enhanced the integrity of the 
intestinal barrier. The findings suggest that PCA may serve as a promising 
therapeutic agent for early intervention in AD to mitigate its progression.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118598
PMID: 40991989

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


99. PLoS Biol. 2025 Sep 24;23(9):e3003368. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.3003368. 
eCollection 2025 Sep.

Ending publication bias: A values-based approach to surface null and negative 
results.

Curry S(1)(2), Mercado-Lara E(3), Arechavala-Gomeza V(4)(5), Begley CG(6), 
Bernard C(7), Bernard R(8), Bertuzzi S(9), Bhalla N(10), Bowers D(11), Brod 
S(12), Chambers C(13), Dougherty MR(14), Bueso YF(15)(16)(17), Forner S(18), 
Freeman ALJ(19), Haas M(20), Henderson DP(21), Khanna K(22), Lawrence R(23), 
Liakath-Ali K(24), Liu C(25), Malhotra N(26), Merino JG(27), Miguel E(28), Miles 
R(29), Munson M(30), Nakagawa S(31), Nobles R(32), Owango J(33), Pham MT(34), 
Poe G(35), Ramirez AN(36), Sarabipour S(37), Silverman JL(38), Smith LN(39), 
Sriramarao P(40), Sternberg PW(41), Swamy GK(42), Tansey MG(43), Torres GE(44), 
Turner EH(45), von Klinggraeff L(46), Weis-Garcia F(47).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Research on Research Institute, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Open Research Community Accelerator, San Francisco, California, United States 
of America.
(4)Nucleic Acid Therapeutics for Rare Diseases, Biobizkaia Health Research 
Institute, Barakaldo, Spain.
(5)Ikerbasque, Basque Foundation for Science, Bilbao, Spain.
(6)Begley Biotech Consulting, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(7)Aix Marseille Université, INSERM, Institut de Neurosciences des Systèmes, 
Marseille, France.
(8)Excellenzcluster NeuroCure, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(9)American Society for Microbiology, Washington, District of Columbia, United 
States of America.
(10)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, University of 
California, Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California, United States of America.
(11)Department of Clinical and Health Psychology, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida, United States of America.
(12)BioMed Central, London, United Kingdom.
(13)School of Psychology, Cardiff University, Cardiff, United Kingdom.
(14)Department of Psychology, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, 
United States of America.
(15)Cancer Research @UCC, University College Cork, Cork, Republic of Ireland.
(16)Institute for Protein Design, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
United States of America.
(17)Global Young Academy, Halle, Germany.
(18)Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(19)Octopus Publishing CIC, Abingdon, United Kingdom.
(20)Cohen Veterans Bioscience, New York, New York, United States of America.
(21)Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology, Rockville, 
Maryland, United States of America.
(22)Gladstone Institute of Virology, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California, United States of America.
(23)F1000 Research Ltd, Taylor & Francis Group, London, United Kingdom.
(24)School of Biological Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, 
United Kingdom.
(25)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, United States of America.
(26)Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, Stanford, California, 
United States of America.
(27)Department of Neurology, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, 
District of Columbia, United States of America.
(28)Department of Economics and Center for Effective Global Action, University 
of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, California, United States of America.
(29)University Libraries, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia, United States of 
America.
(30)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biotechnology, University of 
Massachusetts Chan Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts, United States of 
America.
(31)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, 
Canada.
(32)Office of Research Administration, Emory University, Atlanta, GeorgiaUnited 
States of America.
(33)Training Centre in Communication, University of Nairobi, Nairobi, Kenya.
(34)Columbia Business School, Columbia University, New York, New York, United 
States of America.
(35)Integrative Biology and Physiology Department, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, California, United States of America.
(36)Neuroscience Program, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New 
York, United States of America.
(37)Department of Cell Biology, University of Connecticut School of Medicine, 
Farmington, Connecticut, United States of America.
(38)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, MIND Institute, School of 
Medicine, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, California, United States 
of America.
(39)Department of Neuroscience and Experimental Therapeutics, Texas A&M 
University College of Medicine, Bryan, Texas, United States of America.
(40)Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation, Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond, Virginia, United States of America.
(41)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of 
Technology, Pasadena, California, United States of America.
(42)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina, United States of America.
(43)McKnight Brain Institute, Department of Neuroscience, University of Florida 
Health System, Gainesville, Florida, United States of America.
(44)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Neuroscience, Loyola University 
Chicago Stritch School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.
(45)Department of Psychiatry, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, 
Oregon, United States of America.
(46)Department of Community and Behavioral Health Sciences, Institute of Public 
and Preventive Health, School of Public Health, Augusta University, Augusta, 
GeorgiaUnited States of America.
(47)Antibody and Bioresource Core Facility, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York, United States of America.

Sharing knowledge is a basic tenet of the scientific community, yet publication 
bias arising from the reluctance or inability to publish negative or null 
results remains a long-standing and deep-seated problem, albeit one that varies 
in severity between disciplines and study types. Recognizing that previous 
endeavors to address the issue have been fragmentary and largely unsuccessful, 
this Consensus View proposes concrete and concerted measures that major 
stakeholders can take to create and incentivize new pathways for publishing 
negative results. Funders, research institutions, publishers, learned societies, 
and the research community all have a role in making this an achievable norm 
that will buttress public trust in science.

Copyright: © 2025 Curry et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.3003368
PMCID: PMC12459790
PMID: 40991668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We have read the journal’s policy and the 
authors of this manuscript have the following competing interests: NB is an 
(unpaid) member of the Scientific and Medical Advisory Board of OpenRxiv. SB is 
a Senior Editor at Springer Nature. CC is an academic editor at PLOS Biology; 
ALJF is director of the not-for-profit Octopus Publishing CIC. RL is Managing 
Director of F1000. JGM is Editor in Chief of Neurology and receives salary 
support from the American Academy of Neurology for that role; in addition, he is 
an ex-officio member of the Board of Directors of the American Academy of 
Neurology. MM is President of the American Society for Cell Biology and a member 
of the editorial board for Molecular Biology of the Cell. PWS is Editor-in-Chief 
of microPublication Biology, published by the California Institute of Technology 
Library. MGT is a scientific consultant and/or advisor for Inmune Bio, 
iMetabolic Pharma, Novonordisk, Astex Pharmaceuticals, Arvinas, Longevity, Jaya, 
IMMvention, Nysnobio, Forward Therapeutics, Ventus, Merck, Weston Family 
Foundation, The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research, Bright Focus 
Foundation, the Parkinson’s Foundation, and New Vision Research for Charleston 
Conference on Alzheimer’s Disease (CCAD). She is co-inventor on a Xencor Inc. 
patent on dominant-negative TNF.


100. Bull Exp Biol Med. 2025 Jul;179(3):378-382. doi: 10.1007/s10517-025-06493-w.
 Epub 2025 Sep 24.

Changes in Dendritic Spine Density and Morphology during Therapy with 
Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors in a Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease.

Belyaev GP(1), Petrov KA(2), Semenov VE(2), Zueva IV(2).

Author information:
(1)Arbuzov Institute of Organic and Physical Chemistry - Separated Division of 
Kazan Scientific Center, Russian Academy of Sciences, Kazan, Russia. 
gregoir4@gmail.com.
(2)Arbuzov Institute of Organic and Physical Chemistry - Separated Division of 
Kazan Scientific Center, Russian Academy of Sciences, Kazan, Russia.

We performed a comparative study of the effect of a new acetylcholinesterase 
inhibitor 1,3-bis[5-(o-nitrobenzylethylamino)pentyl]-6-methyluracil (C-35) and a 
commercial drug donepezil on the density and morphology of dendritic spines in 
the entorhinal cortex of transgenic APP/PS1 mice with a model of Alzheimer's 
disease. Administration of donepezil to transgenic mice did not significantly 
change spine density or morphology. In contrast, treatment with C-35 increased 
dendritic spine density by 56 and 34% in comparison with donepezil and the 
control group (untreated transgenic mice), respectively. This effect of C-35 was 
associated with an increase in the number of thin spines and a decrease number 
of stubby spines.

© 2025. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10517-025-06493-w
PMID: 40991081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]