1. J Mol Neurosci. 2025 Apr 1;75(2):43. doi: 10.1007/s12031-025-02339-2.

Unraveling the Role of LRP1 in Alzheimer's Disease: A Focus on Aβ Clearance and 
the Liver-Brain Axis.

Yang W(1)(2), Wei Z(3), Wang T(4).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Exercise Physiology & Sports Medicine, Tianjin 
University of Sport, Tianjin, 301617, China.
(2)Military Medical Sciences Academy, 1 Dali Road, Heping District, Tianjin, 
300050, P.R. China.
(3)Military Medical Sciences Academy, 1 Dali Road, Heping District, Tianjin, 
300050, P.R. China. wzl06338@163.com.
(4)Military Medical Sciences Academy, 1 Dali Road, Heping District, Tianjin, 
300050, P.R. China. wydny668@163.com.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia, significantly 
contributing to the global health burden. The progressive accumulation of 
amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and tau tangles triggers neuroinflammation, oxidative 
stress, and neuronal damage, highlighting the critical need for effective 
clearance mechanisms. Recent research has identified low-density lipoprotein 
receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) as a key factor in the regulation of Aβ 
clearance, neuroinflammation, and blood-brain barrier integrity, particularly in 
relation to the liver-brain axis. This review provides a comprehensive 
examination of the role of LRP1 in AD, focusing on its expression in the brain 
and liver, its contribution to Aβ metabolism, and its potential as a therapeutic 
target. Using a systematic literature review, LRP1's multifaceted roles across 
various biological processes were explored, including its involvement in Aβ 
transport, clearance via the liver, and modulation of neuroinflammation. 
Additionally, the impact of physical exercise, pharmacological interventions, 
and dietary factors on LRP1 expression levels was investigated, elucidating how 
these approaches may enhance Aβ clearance. The findings demonstrate that LRP1 
expression decreases progressively as AD advances, and that augmenting LRP1 
activity-particularly through exercise and drug therapies-can improve Aβ 
clearance and reduce neuroinflammatory responses. Furthermore, LRP1's 
involvement in the liver-brain axis reveals its broader systemic role in AD 
pathology. In conclusion, targeting LRP1 offers a promising avenue for AD 
prevention and treatment, providing new insights into the therapeutic potential 
of enhancing Aβ clearance pathways through the liver-brain axis.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-025-02339-2
PMID: 40167883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Consent for Publication: Not 
applicable. Ethics Approval: Not applicable. Consent to Participate: Not 
applicable. Competing Interest: The authors declare no competing interests.


2. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 Apr 1;40(4):167. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01587-w.

Ferroptosis and Alzheimer's: unveiling new avenues for the treatment and 
prevention.

Sharma V(1), Sharma P(1), Singh TG(2).

Author information:
(1)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, 140401, 
India.
(2)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, 140401, 
India. gurjeet.singh@chitkara.edu.in.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative illnesses 
worldwide, has a devastating effect on individual, families and society. Despite 
the extensive research and effort, various clinical trials aimed against 
amyloid-β, which is suspected to have a causative role in the illness, have not 
yet shown any clinically significant success to date. Emerging evidence suggests 
that ferroptosis, a kind of programmed cell death triggered by lipid 
peroxidation and dependent on iron, plays a role in AD. There is a complex 
relationship between AD and ferroptosis. In both the processes iron 
dysregulation, altered anti-oxidant mechanisms and lipid peroxidation is 
involved. Ferroptotic processes contributes to the neuro-inflammation, oxidative 
stress and damage to the neurons as observed in AD. Additionally, amyloid-β, a 
hallmark of AD, may influence the ferroptosis, further linked the two pathways. 
Numerous signalling pathways such as Phospho inositide 3-kinase, Glycogen 
synthase kinase-3β, 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase, nuclear factor erythroid 
2-related factor-2 and Sirtuin pathway plays a part in the pathophysiology of 
AD. Through a comprehensive review of current research and experimentation, this 
investigation elucidates the interactions between novel pharmacological agents 
(ferroptotic inhibitors) and AD-related pathways. Furthermore, this review 
highlights the various ferroptotic inhibitors as the therapeutic agents for the 
slowing down the progression of AD. The crosstalk between these processes could 
unveil the potential therapeutic targets for the AD treatment.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01587-w
PMID: 40167846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: N/A Consent to participate: N/A Competing interests: There are no 
conflicts of interest.


3. EJNMMI Res. 2025 Apr 1;15(1):30. doi: 10.1186/s13550-025-01216-8.

Autoradiographic comparison between [(11)C]PiB and [(18)F]AZD4694 in human brain 
tissue.

Aliaga A(#)(1)(2)(3), Therriault J(#)(1)(4)(5), Quispialaya K(1)(3)(5)(6), 
Aliaga A(1)(5), Kunach P(1)(4)(5), Macedo AC(1)(4)(5), Hopewell R(5), Rahmouni 
N(1)(4)(5), Soucy JP(5), Massarweh G(5), Guiot MC(4)(7), Chan T(1)(4)(5), 
Klostranec J(8), Abreu Diaz AM(9), Rocha A(10), Carello-Collar G(2), Machado 
LS(2), De Bastiani MA(2), Guerini de Souza D(2), Souza DO(2), Zimmer AR(11), 
Gauthier S(1)(4), Pascoal TA(10), Zimmer ER(12)(13)(14)(15), Rosa-Neto 
P(16)(17)(18)(19)(20).

Author information:
(1)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, The McGill University Research Centre 
for Studies in Aging, Douglas Hospital, McGill University, 6875 La Salle Blvd - 
FBC Room 3149, Montreal, QC, H4H 1R3, Canada.
(2)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Biochemistry, Universidade Federal 
Do Rio Grande Do Sul, 2600 Ramiro Barcelos Street, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(3)Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, 1001, boul. 
Decarie -Bloc E, Offices ES2.1602, Montreal, QC, 1001H4A 3J1, Canada.
(4)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, 
Canada.
(5)Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal, Canada.
(6)Department of Experimental Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(7)Department of Pathology, McGill University Health Center, Montreal, Canada.
(8)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, McGill University Health Center, 
Montreal, Canada.
(9)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, University of Montreal, Montreal, 
Canada.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Pittsburgh University, Pittsburgh, USA.
(11)Department of Pharmacology, Universidade Federal Do Rio Grande Do Sul, Porto 
Alegre, Brazil.
(12)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, The McGill University Research Centre 
for Studies in Aging, Douglas Hospital, McGill University, 6875 La Salle Blvd - 
FBC Room 3149, Montreal, QC, H4H 1R3, Canada. eduardo.zimmer@ufrgs.br.
(13)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Biochemistry, Universidade Federal 
Do Rio Grande Do Sul, 2600 Ramiro Barcelos Street, Porto Alegre, Brazil. 
eduardo.zimmer@ufrgs.br.
(14)Graduate Program in Biological Sciences: Pharmacology and Therapeutics, 
Universidade Federal Do Rio Grande Do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil. 
eduardo.zimmer@ufrgs.br.
(15)Brain Institute of Rio Grande Do Sul, Universidade Federal Do Rio Grande Do 
Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil. eduardo.zimmer@ufrgs.br.
(16)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, The McGill University Research Centre 
for Studies in Aging, Douglas Hospital, McGill University, 6875 La Salle Blvd - 
FBC Room 3149, Montreal, QC, H4H 1R3, Canada. pedro.rosa@mcgill.ca.
(17)Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, 1001, boul. 
Decarie -Bloc E, Offices ES2.1602, Montreal, QC, 1001H4A 3J1, Canada. 
pedro.rosa@mcgill.ca.
(18)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, 
Canada. pedro.rosa@mcgill.ca.
(19)Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal, Canada. pedro.rosa@mcgill.ca.
(20)Department of Experimental Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Canada. 
pedro.rosa@mcgill.ca.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Amyloid-β imaging through positron emission tomography (PET) has 
significantly transformed Alzheimer's disease (AD) research. [11C]PiB has been 
widely used for imaging β-amyloid plaques due to its high affinity and 
selectivity for amyloid deposits. [18F]AZD4694 is a more recently developed 
amyloid-PET imaging agent, which structurally resembles PiB and has less 
non-specific binding in the white matter than other 18F-labeled compounds. The 
purpose of this study is to compare the in vitro binding properties of the 
amyloid-PET radiotracers [11C]PiB and [18F]AZD4694 in post-mortem human brain 
tissue. Total binding was assessed by autoradiography in prefrontal, inferior 
parietal, posterior cingulate cortices and hippocampal sections of healthy 
control (HC) and AD autopsy-confirmed brain tissues. Furthermore, the 
displacement of [18F]AZD4694 by unlabeled PiB was evaluated in the 
above-mentioned sections of AD brain tissues.
RESULTS: For both radiotracers, we found significant differences (p < 0.0001) 
between HC and AD tissues binding in the prefrontal cortex ([11C]PiB Cohen's 
d = 3.424, [18F]AZD4694 Cohen's d = 5.070), inferior parietal cortex ([11C]PiB 
Cohen's d = 3.156, [18F]AZD4694 Cohen's d = 3.959), posterior cingulate cortex 
([11C]PiB Cohen's d = 1.781, [18F]AZD4694 Cohen's d = 3.434), and hippocampus 
([11C]PiB Cohen's d = 1.320, [18F]AZD4694 Cohen's d = 3.696). Higher binding was 
detected for [18F]AZD4694 compared to [11C]PiB in AD prefrontal, inferior 
parietal and posterior cingulate cortices, while binding in the hippocampus was 
comparable for both radioligands. Strong correlations between [18]AZD4694 and 
[11C]PiB were found in the prefrontal (R = 0.959, p < 0.0001), inferior parietal 
(R = 0.893, p < 0.0001), posterior cingulate (R = 0.838, p = 0.0006) cortices 
and hippocampus (R = 0.750, p < 0.0001). Bland-Altman analyses revealed strong 
agreement between [11C]PiB and [18F]AZD4694 in the prefrontal, inferior 
parietal, and posterior cingulate cortices, but lower agreement in the 
hippocampus. Displacement studies confirmed high binding affinity of PiB in all 
tissues, indicating that both amyloid-PET agents compete for the same binding 
sites.
CONCLUSIONS: This head-to-head study provides evidence that while [18F]AZD4694 
and [11C]PiB bindings are highly correlated with both tracers competing for the 
same binding sites, [18F]AZD4694 has a slightly higher effect size when 
comparing between neuropathologically-confirmed AD and HC brain tissues.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13550-025-01216-8
PMCID: PMC11961831
PMID: 40167827

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The studies involving human participants were reviewed and approved 
by both the Douglas-Bell Canada Brain Bank's ethics board and the Douglas 
Research Centre affiliated with McGill University scientific review committee. 
According to institutional procedures for autopsy consents for post-mortem 
tissue, the patients/participants provided their consent to participate in this 
study with their written information. Consent for publication: According to 
institutional procedures for autopsy consents for post-mortem tissue, the 
patients/participants provided informed consent for publication of the study. 
Competing interests: JT has received consultancy fees from the Neurotorium 
educational platform and from Alzheon Inc, outside the scope of the present 
work. PR-N has served at scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for 
Roche, Novo Nordisk, Eisai, and Cerveau radiopharmaceuticals. ERZ has served on 
the scientific advisory board of Nintx, Novo Nordisk and Masima. He is also a 
co-founder and a minority shareholder at Masima. All other authors report no 
disclosures.


4. Neurogenetics. 2025 Apr 1;26(1):39. doi: 10.1007/s10048-025-00821-y.

Multi-target approach to Alzheimer's disease prevention and treatment: 
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and amyloid- modulating mechanisms.

Abbas K(#)(1), Mustafa M(#)(2), Alam M(1), Habib S(2), Ahmad W(3), Adnan M(4), 
Hassan MI(5), Usmani N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Life Sciences, Aligarh Muslim University, 
Aligarh, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, J.N. Medical College, Faculty of Medicine, 
Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India.
(3)Department of Medicine, J.N. Medical College, Faculty of Medicine, Aligarh 
Muslim University, Aligarh, India.
(4)Department of Biology, College of Science, University of Ha'Il, Ha'il, Saudi 
Arabia.
(5)Center for Interdisciplinary Research in Basic Sciences, Jamia Millia 
Islamia, New Delhi, India. mihassan@jmi.ac.in.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-β (Aβ) plaque accumulation, 
neurofibrillary tangles, neuroinflammation, and progressive cognitive decline, 
posing a significant global health challenge. Growing evidence suggests that 
dietary polyphenols may reduce the risk and progression of AD through 
multifaceted neuroprotective mechanisms. Polyphenols regulate amyloid 
proteostasis by inhibiting β/γ-secretase activity, preventing Aβ aggregation, 
and enhancing clearance pathways. Their strong antioxidant properties neutralize 
reactive oxygen species, chelate redox-active metals, and activate 
cytoprotective enzymes via Nrf2 signaling. This review examines the potential 
therapeutic targets, signaling pathways, and molecular mechanisms by which 
dietary polyphenols exert neuroprotective effects in AD, focusing on their roles 
in modulating amyloid proteostasis, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and 
cerebrovascular health. Polyphenols mitigate neuroinflammation by suppressing 
NF-κB signaling and upregulating brain-derived neurotrophic factor, supporting 
neuroplasticity and neurogenesis. They also enhance cerebrovascular health by 
improving cerebral blood flow, maintaining blood-brain barrier integrity, and 
modulating angiogenesis. This review examines the molecular and cellular 
pathways through which polyphenols exert neuroprotective effects, focusing on 
their antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and amyloid-modulating roles. We also 
discuss their influence on key AD pathologies, including Aβ deposition, tau 
hyperphosphorylation, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation. Insights from 
clinical and preclinical studies highlight the potential of polyphenols in 
preventing or slowing AD progression. Future research should explore 
personalized dietary strategies that integrate genetic and lifestyle factors to 
optimize the neuroprotective effects of polyphenols.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10048-025-00821-y
PMID: 40167826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: Not required. 
Consent to participate: Not required. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


5. Eur J Nutr. 2025 Apr 1;64(3):142. doi: 10.1007/s00394-025-03651-8.

Associations of moderate alcohol intake with cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers of 
Alzheimer's disease: data from the ALBION study.

Drouka A(1), Ntetsika KD(1), Brikou D(1), Mamalaki E(1), Ntanasi E(1)(2), 
Chatzipanagiotou S(3), Gu Y(4), Scarmeas N(2)(4), Yannakoulia M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Harokopio University, Athens, 17671, 
Greece.
(2)Department of Neurology, Medical School, Aiginition Hospital, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, 11528, Greece.
(3)Department of Medical Biopathology and Clinical Microbiology, Aiginition 
Hospital, Athens Medical School, National and Kapodistrian University, Athens, 
11528, Greece.
(4)The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Department of Neurology, Taub Institute 
for Research in Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, Columbia University, 
New York, NY, 10032, USA.
(5)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Harokopio University, Athens, 17671, 
Greece. myiannak@hua.gr.

PURPOSE: According to a WHO statement, it has been asserted that there is no 
safe level of alcohol consumption regarding human health. Nevertheless, the 
relationship between alcohol consumption and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology 
remains unclear. Therefore, we examined whether the frequency and patterns of 
alcohol consumption could predict neurodegeneration biomarkers in a cohort of 
middle-aged adults without dementia.
METHODS: A total of 195 participants without dementia were included from the 
ALBION study. Multivariate logistic regression analyses were conducted using 
drinking frequency subgroups (abstainers, occasional drinkers, and 
light-to-moderate drinkers) and Mediterranean-Alcohol Dietary Pattern (MADP) 
adherence subgroups along with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) AD biomarkers (Tau, 
phosphorylated tau (PTau) and amyloid beta (Aβ). In these analyses, the 
abstinence was used as the reference category.
RESULTS: Of the 195 individuals without dementia, 66% were female, with an 
average age of 65 ± 9.4 years, and they had 13.8 ± 3.6 years of education. 
Logistic regression analyses revealed that light-to-moderate drinkers (n = 51) 
were associated with higher Aβ positivity [OR: 2.98 (1.29-6.90)] compared to the 
abstinence (n = 117). Additionally, high adherence to the MADP was significantly 
associated with higher Aβ, Tau/Aβ42, and PTau/Aβ42 ratios positivity compared to 
the abstinence.
CONCLUSION: Light-to-moderate alcohol intake was associated with higher Aβ 
deposition in middle-aged individuals without dementia, compared to abstinence. 
High adherence to the MADP, which indicates low-to-moderate red wine consumption 
distributing over the week with meals, was associated with a higher Aβ and 
Tau/Aβ and PTau/Aβ positivity. Therefore, the management of alcohol consumption 
may help improve AD outcomes even at the preclinical stage.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00394-025-03651-8
PMCID: PMC11961535
PMID: 40167814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval: The research 
protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of the Aiginition 
University Hospital of Athens Greece, Protocol code: 255, A∆A: 6K468N2-8 H, date 
of approval: 10 May 2021. All participants gave written informed consent to 
participate in the examinations according to the Helsinki declaration. All 
participants provided informed consent. Competing interests: The authors have no 
competing interests to declare that are relevant to the content of this article.


6. Chem Biodivers. 2025 Aug;22(8):e202403401. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202403401. Epub 
2025 Jun 3.

Serotonergic Modulators in Alzheimer's Disease: A Hope in the Hopeless 
Condition.

Almohmadi NH(1), Al-Kuraishy HM(2), Al-Gareeb AI(3), Albuhadily AK(2), Fakhry 
MM(4), Alexiou A(5)(6), Papadakis M(7), Batiha GE(8).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Nutrition Department, College of Applied Medical Sciences, Umm 
Al-Qura University, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Mustansiriyah University, Baghdad, Iraq.
(3)Jabir Ibn Hayyan Medical University, Kufa, Iraq.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Egyptian Russian University, Cairo, Egypt.
(5)University Centre for Research & Development, Chandigarh University, 
Chandigarh-Ludhiana Highway, Mohali, Punjab, India.
(6)Department of Research & Development, Funogen, Athens, Greece.
(7)University Hospital Witten-Herdecke, University of Witten-Herdecke, 
Wuppertal, Germany.
(8)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Damanhour University, Damanhour, Egypt.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the main cause of dementia worldwide. AD is a 
progressive brain neurodegenerative disease due to genetic and environmental 
factors that induce a progressive accumulation of intracellular 
hyperphosphorylated tau protein and extracellular amyloid protein (Aβ). However, 
anti-AD medications cannot reverse the fundamental AD neuropathology due to 
amyloid plaques and related oxidative stress and inflammatory reactions. Thus, 
targeting other pathways might be reasonable in the management of AD. The 
serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmitter plays a crucial role in preventing 
neurodegeneration and related oxidative stress and inflammatory reactions. In 
addition, the serotonergic system is highly dysregulated in many 
neurodegenerative diseases, including AD. Deregulation of serotonin synthesis 
and its receptors is involved in the pathogenesis of AD. Therefore, this review 
aims to discuss how the serotonergic system is affected in AD, and how 5-HT 
modulators can reverse AD neuropathology and alleviate the associated 
neuropsychiatric disorders in AD patients.

© 2025 The Author(s). Chemistry & Biodiversity published by Wiley‐VHCA AG.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202403401
PMCID: PMC12351446
PMID: 40167033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


7. Autism Res. 2025 May;18(5):1077-1086. doi: 10.1002/aur.70035. Epub 2025 Apr 1.

Epidemiology of Alzheimer Disease and Related Dementia Among Medicare and 
Medicaid Enrolled Autistic Adults, 2011-2019.

Tewolde S(1), Rosenberg SB(1), Estrada JAG(1), Jimenez MP(1), Scott A(1), 
Higgins A(1), Rubenstein E(1).

Author information:
(1)Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) are burdensome and lethal 
conditions that have been hypothesized to be related to autism through shared 
genetic etiologies and environmental risk factors. Our objective was to use 
longitudinal Medicaid and Medicare data to describe the epidemiology of ADRD in 
publicly insured autistic adults. We used all claims and encounters from 2011 to 
2019 to identify autism and ADRD. We calculated prevalence, incidence, age at 
onset, and created survival curves. There were 90,229 autistic adults ≥ 30 years 
of age and enrolled for at least 1 year in Medicaid and/or Medicare and 267 ADRD 
cases. Prevalence of ADRD was 2.09% (95% CI: 1.99%, 2.20%) in 2011 and 8.11% 
(95% CI: 7.92%, 8.30%) in 2019. Mean age at ADRD onset was 59.3 years (SD: 
14.2). Mean age among men was 58.3 years (SD: 13.8) and 61.0 years among 
females. Incidence of ADRD was higher in autistic adults with intellectual 
disability with no difference by sex. ADRD is a prevalent condition in middle- 
and older-aged adults identified with autism in the Medicaid and Medicare 
system. Understanding the diagnostic process and phenotype of ADRD will be 
important to improve identification and treatment.

© 2025 International Society for Autism Research and Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.70035
PMID: 40166852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Clin Interv Aging. 2025 Mar 27;20:381-393. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S496820.
eCollection  2025.

Relationship Between Peripheral Serum Adiponectin and Cerebrospinal Fluid TNF-α, 
IL-1β, Lactic Acid, Pyruvic Acid and Perioperative Neurocognitive Dysfunction in 
Elderly Patients Undergoing Hip Arthroplasty.

Guo L(1)(2), Wang D(2)(3), Lai X(3)(4), Chi Y(3), Liu S(2)(3), Su X(3), Chen 
H(3)(5), Su B(3)(5), Xie H(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, South China 
University of Technology, Foshan, People's Republic of China.
(2)Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, The Tenth Affiliated Hospital of Southern 
Medical University, Dongguan, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, Shenzhen Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital, 
Guangzhou University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shenzhen, People's 
Republic of China.
(5)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Anesthesia and Organ Protection, Dongguan, 
People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Postoperative neurocognitive dysfunction (PND) represents a form of 
cognitive impairment related to surgery and anesthesia, which may manifest hours 
or even weeks after the surgical procedure, persist, and potentially progress 
into Alzheimer's disease. The etiology of PND is intricate, with central nervous 
inflammation playing a crucial role. The clinical manifestations of PND are not 
distinctive, no obvious image alterations are observable, and the diagnosis rate 
is relatively low, thereby influencing prognosis and augmenting postoperative 
complications and mortality. The optimal treatment approach for PND lies in 
timely identification and management of the high-risk factors causing PND and 
implementing early prevention. We hypothesize that the level of peripheral blood 
adiponectin (APN) is correlated with PND, potentially through inhibiting the 
central inflammatory response and regulating brain energy metabolism.
METHODS: Fifty elderly patients undergoing elective hip arthroplasty under 
continuous epidural spinal anesthesia (CESA) were included. Cognitive function 
was assessed using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) preoperatively and 
postoperatively at 1, 2, 3, and 7 days. Serum APN and CSF levels of TNF-α, 
IL-1β, lactic acid, and pyruvic acid were measured. The occurrence of PND was 
recorded, and the patients were divided into a PND group and a non-PND group.
RESULTS: PND occurred in 16 patients (34.04%). The PND group had lower serum APN 
levels and higher cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of TNF-α, IL-1β, and 
lactic acid compared to the non-PND group. CSF TNF-α and IL-1β levels were 
negatively correlated with serum APN concentration. These biomarkers are 
associated with PND occurrence and have high diagnostic value.
CONCLUSION: Decreases in serum APN and increases in TNF-α, IL-1β, and lactic 
acid in CSF may be involved in the pathophysiological process of PND in elderly 
patients after surgery.

© 2025 Guo et al.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S496820
PMCID: PMC11956703
PMID: 40166757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


9. Clin Cosmet Investig Dermatol. 2025 Mar 27;18:735-741. doi: 
10.2147/CCID.S505143. eCollection 2025.

Successful Guselkumab Treatment in a Patient with Comorbid Psoriasis and 
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis: A Case Study and Literature Review.

Xiong J(1), Chen X(1), Huang K(1), Pan Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, No. 1 Youyi Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing, 400016, People's 
Republic of China.

Psoriasis is genetically influenced and can be triggered by factors such as 
infections, stress, and lifestyle. Chronic plaque psoriasis, the most prevalent 
form, involves key roles for IL-17 and IL-23 in its pathogenesis. Amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the 
degeneration of motor neurons, resulting in muscle weakness and atrophy. 
Currently, there is no cure for ALS, and treatment is symptomatic, aimed at 
improving quality of life. The combination of psoriasis and ALS is relatively 
rare. Although biologic agents have shown remarkable efficacy in the treatment 
of chronic plaque psoriasis, we have not found any case reports regarding the 
use of biologic agents for treating psoriasis accompanied by ALS. Our study 
presents a patient with severe plaque psoriasis and ALS who exhibited a positive 
response to Guselkumab, without worsening of ALS symptoms, suggesting a 
promising therapeutic strategy. This could provide a treatment option for 
patients with psoriasis combined with ALS.We conducted a comprehensive review of 
the literature on the comorbidity of neurodegenerative diseases, including 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), and 
ALS, with plaque psoriasis. This review highlights the differential impact of 
treatment modalities. Specifically, we found that TNF-α inhibitors may have 
adverse effects in MS but could provide protective benefits in AD and PD. In ALS 
patients with psoriasis, IL-17A and IL-23 inhibitors, exemplified by Guselkumab, 
are suggested as a more suitable alternative due to their lower risk of 
worsening ALS symptoms.

© 2025 Xiong et al.

DOI: 10.2147/CCID.S505143
PMCID: PMC11956893
PMID: 40166719

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


10. Front Aging Neurosci. 2025 Mar 17;17:1535094. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2025.1535094.  eCollection 2025.

Strategic delivery of omega-3 fatty acids for modulating inflammatory 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Chen Y(1), Touboul R(1), Chen Y(1), Chang CL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Nutrition, Columbia University Vagelos College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY, United States.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department of 
Pediatrics, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, New 
York, NY, United States.

OBJECTIVES: Early-life inflammatory events like infections and injuries may 
predispose the brain to Alzheimer's disease (AD) by disrupting neurodevelopment 
and raising vulnerability. The association between early neuroinflammation and 
subsequent neurodegeneration leading to dementia remains unclear. We hypothesize 
that omega-3 (n-3) fatty acids (FA), especially eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and 
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), positively regulate neuro-immune cells, preserving 
their cell membrane structure and metabolic homeostasis. Our study examined 
whether strategic delivery of n-3 FA via injectable n-3 triglycerides (TG) can 
influence microglial lipid metabolism to prevent or delay AD progression.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We characterized n-3 treatment effects on modulating lipid 
and metabolic homeostasis in microglia during the critical window of brain 
development. Our preliminary studies on determining the effects of early n-3 
treatment on brain cell homeostasis indicate that perinatal bolus n-3 TG 
injections suppressed activation of gliosis-associated markers in young mice 
predisposed to AD (5xFAD) and yielded sustained regulatory effects on the 
expression of inflammatory molecules, such as interleukin-6 (Il6) and tumor 
necrosis factor-alpha (Tnfα), in adult brains. A significant increase in 
high-frequency ultrasonic vocalizations (USV) was observed in P6 5xFAD mice that 
received perinatal n-3 compared to vehicle control, implicating enhanced active 
communication patterns. Improvement in behavior deficits was observed in 
n-3-treated adult AD mice. Perinatal n-3 TG treatment modified brain lipid 
composition in young offspring, increasing key membrane lipid species, such as 
phospholipids (PL) and lysophospholipids (lysoPL). Pro-inflammatory 
sphingolipids associated with neurodegeneration, including lactosylceramide, 
were significantly lower in mice treated with n-3 than those in saline-treated 
AD mice.
CONCLUSION: Our study establishes a proof of principle for targeting brain 
immune cell metabolism with injectable n-3 TG to mitigate neuroinflammation in 
AD pathogenesis, paving the way for future research into early treatments for 
related central nervous system (CNS) disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Chen, Touboul, Chen and Chang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2025.1535094
PMCID: PMC11955621
PMID: 40166615

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


11. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 19:2025.03.18.25324200. doi: 
10.1101/2025.03.18.25324200.

A head-to-head comparison of multiple amyloid PET radiotracers for Down syndrome 
clinical trials.

Zammit MD(1), Price JC(2), Christian BT(1), Rafii MS(3); Alzheimer’s Biomarker 
Consortium – Down Syndrome.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin-Madison Waisman Center, Madison, WI, USA.
(2)Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Alzheimer's Therapeutic Research Institute, Keck School of Medicine of 
University of Southern California, San Diego, CA, USA.

Adults with Down syndrome carry high risk of developing Alzheimer's disease and 
efforts to include this population in clinical trials remain limited. A barrier 
to recruitment for anti-amyloid trials includes the availability of the same 
amyloid PET radiotracer to multiple treatment centers. 237 adults with Down 
syndrome from the Trial-Ready Cohort - Down syndrome and Alzheimer Biomarker 
Consortium - Down syndrome studies were imaged using T1-w MRI and using PET 
images of PiB, Florbetapir (FBP), NAV4694 (NAV) or Flutemetamol (FMM) to screen 
for amyloid plaque (Aβ) burden. PiB displayed the largest effect size to measure 
amyloid change while FBP had a small effect size. NAV and PiB, which are 
structurally similar compounds, displayed similar sensitivity to measure 
longitudinal amyloid increase. The estimated age at amyloid onset showed no 
significant difference between PiB, FBP, NAV or FMM. The findings suggest that 
different amyloid PET radiotracers provide consistent estimates of amyloid onset 
age for adults with Down syndrome. Multicenter studies of Alzheimer's disease 
therapeutics can utilize multiple amyloid PET radiotracers to facilitate 
recruitment, however, PiB and NAV displayed the greatest sensitivity to detect 
longitudinal change.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.03.18.25324200
PMCID: PMC11957079
PMID: 40166579

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests MDZ received honoraria from 
the University of Southern California Alzheimer’s Therapeutic Research Institute 
and LuMind IDSC Foundation. MSR has received grants/contracts from NIH, Eisai 
and Eli Lilly. He is a consultant to AC Immune, Alnylam and Ionis. He serves as 
Data Safety Monitoring Board Chair for Alzheon and Biohaven. He is a Scientific 
Advisory Board for Embic, Prescient and Positrigo. BTC has received equipment 
and precursor materials from Cerveau and AVID and is a consultant for Alnylam 
and LuMind IDSC Foundation.


12. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 17:2025.03.12.25323862. doi: 
10.1101/2025.03.12.25323862.

AI-driven fusion of neurological work-up for assessment of biological 
Alzheimer's disease.

Jasodanand VH(1), Kowshik SS(1)(2), Puducheri S(1)(3), Romano MF(4), Xu L(1)(2), 
Au R(1)(5)(6)(7)(8), Kolachalama VB(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Faculty of Computing & Data Sciences, Boston University, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Computer Science, Boston University, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology & Biomedical Imaging, University of California San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(5)Boston University Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)The Framingham Heart Study, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.

Update in
    Nat Commun. 2025 Aug 11;16(1):7407. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-62590-4.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) diagnosis hinges on detecting amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques 
and neurofibrillary tau (τ) tangles. While amyloid PET imaging is now clinically 
approved, tau PET remains largely restricted to research settings. These imaging 
techniques, though valuable, are expensive and often difficult to access, 
limiting their widespread use in routine clinical practice. Here, we introduce a 
computational framework that leverages multimodal data from seven distinct 
cohorts comprising 12, 185 participants to estimate individual PET profiles, 
both global and regional, using more accessible data modalities, such as 
demographics, medical history, medication use, fluid measurements, functional 
and neuropsychological assessments, and structural MRIs. Our approach achieved 
an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.79 and 0.84 in 
classifying persons with positive Aβ and τ status, respectively. Model 
predictions were consistent with various biomarker and cognitive profiles, as 
well as with different degrees of protein abnormalities observed in post-mortem 
examinations. Furthermore, the regional volumes identified by the model as 
important aligned with the spatial distributions of the standardized uptake 
value ratio for regional τ labels. Our model offers a practical approach to 
identify potential candidates for newly approved anti-amyloid treatments and AD 
clinical trials for combined amyloid and tau therapies by utilizing standard 
neurological evaluation data.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.03.12.25323862
PMCID: PMC11957082
PMID: 40166530

Conflict of interest statement: Ethics declarations V.B.K. is a co-founder and 
equity holder of deepPath Inc., and CogniScreen, Inc. He also serves on the 
scientific advisory board of Altoida Inc. R.A. is a scientific advisor to 
Signant Health and NovoNordisk. The remaining authors declare no competing 
interests.


13. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Mar 17;16:1528919. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1528919. 
eCollection 2025.

Traditional Chinese Medicine-derived formulations and extracts modulating the 
PI3K/AKT pathway in Alzheimer's disease.

Ma L(#)(1), Wang J(#)(2), Zhou R(1), Chen M(1), Huang Z(1), Lin S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Wenzhou Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) Hospital 
of Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Nanning Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Nanning, Guangxi, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
memory decline, cognitive impairment, and behavioral abnormalities. 
Pathologically, AD is marked by neurofibrillary tangles caused by excessive 
phosphorylation of Tau protein and abnormal deposition of β-amyloid (Aβ) in the 
brain. The PI3K/AKT signaling pathway plays a crucial role in the development, 
survival, and metabolic regulation of the central nervous system, particularly 
in neuronal growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. However, this pathway is 
often inhibited in AD patients.In recent years, studies have shown that herbal 
formulations and extracts derived from Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) can 
regulate the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, thereby improving AD pathological 
models. This study reviews fundamental research on both active metabolites and 
compound formulations from TCM for the treatment of AD, targeting the PI3K/AKT 
signaling pathway.Keywords include "Alzheimer's disease" "AD" "dementia" "PI3K" 
"AKT" "Traditional Chinese Medicine" "Chinese herbology" "Chinese medicine" and 
"TCM".The study is based on relevant literature published over the past 
15 years, primarily sourced from electronic databases such as Web of Science, 
PubMed, CNKI, Wanfang, and VIP databases.The findings indicate that herbal 
formulations and extracts derived from TCM can mitigate AD pathology by 
regulating the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, reducing Tau protein phosphorylation 
and Aβ deposition, inhibiting inflammatory responses and oxidative stress, and 
alleviating neuronal apoptosis. This study enhances our understanding of the 
anti-AD mechanisms of TCM through the PI3K/AKT pathway and offers new insights 
for the future.

Copyright © 2025 Ma, Wang, Zhou, Chen, Huang and Lin.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1528919
PMCID: PMC11955602
PMID: 40166467

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


14. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 17:2025.03.14.643349. doi: 
10.1101/2025.03.14.643349.

Single-cell multiomics reveals disrupted glial gene regulatory programs in 
Alzheimer's disease via interpretable machine learning.

Zhang S, Hu H, Wang X, Xiong C, Asmann YW, Ren Y.

Recent development of single-cell technology across multiple omics platforms has 
provided new ways to obtain holistic views of cells to study disease 
pathobiology. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia 
worldwide, yet the detailed understanding of its cellular and molecular 
mechanisms remains limited. In this study, we analyzed paired single-cell 
transcriptomic (scRNA-seq) and chromatin accessibility (scATAC-seq) data from 
the Seattle Alzheimer's Disease Brain Cell Atlas (SEA-AD) Consortium to 
investigate the molecular mechanisms of AD at a cell-subpopulation-specific 
resolution focusing on glial cells. We benchmarked various multi-omics 
integration methods using diverse metrics and built an analytic workflow that 
enabled effective batch correction and cross-modality alignment, creating a 
unified cell state space. Through integrative analysis of 26 human brain 
samples, we uncovered AD-associated gene expression and pathway changes in glial 
subpopulations and highlighted important transcriptomic and epigenomic 
signatures via functional inference and interpretable machine learning 
paradigms, discovering the profound involvement of the Solute Carrier proteins 
(SLC) family genes in multiple glial cell types. We also identified glial 
cell-specific regulatory programs mediated by key transcription factors such as 
JUN and FOSL2 in astrocytes, the Zinc Finger (ZNF) family genes in microglia, 
and the SOX family of transcription factors in oligodendrocytes. Our study 
provides a comprehensive workflow and a high-resolution view of how glial 
regulatory programs are disrupted in AD. Our findings offer novel insights into 
disease-related changes in gene regulation and suggest potential targets for 
further research and therapy.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.03.14.643349
PMCID: PMC11957018
PMID: 40166228


15. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 17:2025.03.15.643144. doi: 
10.1101/2025.03.15.643144.

Epigenomic subtypes of late-onset Alzheimer's disease reveal distinct microglial 
signatures.

Laroche VT(1), Cavill R(2), Kouhsar M(3), Reijnders RA(1), Harvey J(3), Smith 
AR(3), Imm J(3), Koetsier J(4), Weymouth L(3), MacBean L(3), Pegoraro G(3), 
Eijssen L(1), Creese B(5), Kenis G(1), Tijms BM(6), van den Hove D(1), Lunnon 
K(3), Pishva E(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, Mental Health and Neuroscience 
Research Institute (MHeNs), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Advanced Computing Sciences, Faculty of Science and Engineering 
(FSE), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical and Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health and Life 
Sciences, University of Exeter, Exeter, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht 
(CARIM), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Life Sciences, Brunel University, London, UK.
(6)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Department of Neurology, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Growing evidence suggests that clinical, pathological, and genetic heterogeneity 
in late-onset Alzheimer's disease contributes to variable therapeutic outcomes, 
potentially explaining many trial failures. Advances in molecular subtyping 
through proteomic and transcriptomic profiling reveal distinct patient 
subgroups, highlighting disease complexity beyond amyloid-beta plaques and tau 
tangles. This insight underscores the need to expand molecular subtyping across 
new molecular layers, to identify novel drug targets for different patient 
subgroups. In this study, we analyzed genome-wide DNA methylation data from 
three independent postmortem brain cohorts (n = 831) to identify epigenetic 
subtypes of late-onset Alzheimer's disease. Unsupervised clustering approaches 
were employed to identify distinct DNA methylation patterns, with subsequent 
cross-cohort validation to ensure robustness and reproducibility. To explore the 
cell-type specificity of the identified epigenomic subtypes, we characterized 
their methylation signatures utilizing DNA methylation profiles derived from 
purified brain cells. Transcriptomic data from bulk and single-cell RNA 
sequencing were integrated to examine the functional impact of epigenetic 
subtypes on gene expression profiles. Finally, we performed statistical analyses 
to investigate associations between these DNA methylation-defined subtypes and 
clinical or neuropathological features, aiming to elucidate their biological 
significance and clinical implications. We identified two distinct epigenomic 
subtypes of late-onset Alzheimer's disease, each defined by reproducible DNA 
methylation patterns across three cohorts. Both subtypes exhibit 
cell-type-specific DNA methylation profiles. Subtype 1 and subtype 2 show 
significant microglial methylation enrichment, with odds ratios (OR) of 1.6 and 
1.3, respectively. The minimal overlap between them suggests distinct microglial 
states. Additionally, subtype 2 displays strong neuronal (OR = 1.6) and 
oligodendrocyte (OR = 3.6) enrichment. Bulk transcriptomic analyses further 
highlighted divergent biological mechanisms underpinning these subtypes, with 
subtype 1 enriched for immune-related processes, and subtype 2 characterized 
predominantly by neuronal and synaptic functional pathways. Single-cell 
transcriptional profiling of microglia revealed subtype-specific inflammatory 
states: subtype 1 represented a state of chronic innate immune hyperactivation 
with impaired resolution, while subtype 2 exhibited a more dynamic inflammatory 
profile balancing pro-inflammatory signaling with reparative and regulatory 
mechanisms. This study highlights the molecular heterogeneity of late-onset 
Alzheimer's disease by identifying two epigenetic subtypes with distinct 
cell-type-specific DNA methylation patterns. Their alignment with previously 
defined molecular classifications underscores their relevance in disease 
pathogenesis. By linking these subtypes to inflammatory microglial activity, our 
findings provide a foundation for future precision medicine approaches in 
Alzheimer's research and treatment.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.03.15.643144
PMCID: PMC11957029
PMID: 40166175

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors have no 
competing interests to declare.


16. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 17:2025.03.14.643382. doi: 
10.1101/2025.03.14.643382.

Cytosine-to-uracil RNA editing is upregulated by pro-inflammatory stimulation of 
myeloid cells.

Seo H(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Cuddleston WH(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Fu T(6), Navarro 
E(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(7)(8)(9), Parks M(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Allan A(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), 
Efthymiou AG(1)(2)(3), Breen MS(1)(10)(11)(12), Xiao X(6)(13), Raj 
T(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Humphrey J(1)(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience & Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Icahn Institute for Data Science and Genomic Technology, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Estelle and Daniel Maggin Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of California, 
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(7)Instituto Universitario de Investigacion en Neuroquímica, Departamento de 
Bioquímica y Biologia Molecular, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Complutense, 
Madrid, Spain.
(8)Centro de Investigacion Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas 
(CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Instituto Ramon y Cajal de Investigacion Sanitaria (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain.
(10)Seaver Autism Center for Research and Treatment, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(12)Mindich Child Health and Development Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(13)Bioinformatics Interdepartmental Program, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

Myeloid cells undergo large changes to their gene expression profile in response 
to inflammatory stimulation. This includes an increase in post-transcriptional 
modifications carried out by adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) and 
cytosine-to-uracil (C-to-U) RNA editing enzymes. However, the precise RNA 
editing targets altered by stimulation and the consequences of RNA editing on 
gene expression and the proteome have been understudied. We present a 
comprehensive RNA editing analysis of stimulated myeloid cells across three 
independent cohorts totalling 297 samples, including monocytes and IPS-derived 
microglia. We observed that C-to-U editing, while less abundant, has a higher 
effect size in response to stimulation than A-to-I, and has a greater potential 
to recode the proteome. We investigated the consequences of RNA editing on RNA 
stability and gene expression using in silico and in vitro reporter methods, and 
identified a recoding C-to-U site in ARSB that mimics a reported lysosomal 
storage disorder mutation.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.03.14.643382
PMCID: PMC11957056
PMID: 40166159

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors declare no 
competing interests, but in full transparency the following authors wish to 
disclose their industry relations: AGE is now an employee of BlueRock 
Therapeutics.


17. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 21:rs.3.rs-6229829. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-6229829/v1.

Admixed gene expression models expand molecular and neurological insights into 6 
major psychiatric disorders.

Bledsoe X(1)(2), Watkins N(3), Bowen-Moore T(4), Gamazon ER(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Medical Scientist Training Program, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN.
(2)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, TN.
(3)Chapman University, Orange, CA.
(4)Gonzaga University, Spokane, WA.
(5)Vanderbilt Memory & Alzheimer's Center, Nashville, TN.

Our understanding of the influence of ancestral background on genetically 
determined expression remains limited, especially when gene expression models 
are applied to studies from different or multiple populations. We performed 
transcriptome wide association studies (TWAS) in 6 different psychiatric 
conditions, leveraging gene expression models trained in cohorts with different 
proportions of African, European, and Indigenous American genetic ancestries. 
For comparison we repeated each TWAS using a model trained in individuals of 
predominantly European ancestry. We identified 1,416 statistically significant 
TWAS associations (FDR p < 0.05) across the 6 diagnoses, of which 62% were 
uniquely detected by the admixed gene models. We observed > 92% correlation in 
the gene-level effects on disease risk, a statistic that remained robust for 
TWAS results that only reached statistical significance in one population. Using 
admixed gene expression models validated and greatly extended the yield of TWAS. 
The resulting transcriptomic signatures implicated neuroimaging features 
associated with diagnostic symptoms.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6229829/v1
PMCID: PMC11957212
PMID: 40166038

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Competing Interests E.R.G. has 
served as a consultant for Thryv Therapeutics.


18. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 18:rs.3.rs-5167552. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-5167552/v1.

Large-scale Plasma Proteomic Profiling Unveils Novel Diagnostic Biomarkers and 
Pathways for Alzheimer's Disease.

Cruchaga C(1), Heo G(2), Thomas A(1), Wang E(3), Oh H(4), Ali M(5), Timsina 
J(6), Song S(7), Liu M(7), Gong K(7), Western D(6), Chen Y(7), Kohlfeld P(8), 
Flynn A(7), Lowery J(7), Morris J(9), Holtzman D(10), Perlmutter J(5), Schindler 
S(5), Zhang B(3), Bennett D(11), Benzinger T(12), Wyss-Coray T(4), Ibanez L(12), 
Sung YJ(2), Xu Y(2), Losada PM(4), Anastasi F(13), Gonzalez-Escalante A(14), 
Puerta R(15), Vilor-Tejedor N(13), Suárez-Calvet M(13), Garcia-Gonzalez P(16), 
Fernández M(5), Boada M(17), Cano A(16), Ruiz A(18).

Author information:
(1)Washington University, School of Medicine.
(2)Washington University Medical School.
(3)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.
(4)Stanford University.
(5)Washington University School of Medicine.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(7)Washington University.
(8)Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.
(9)Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center.
(10)Washington University in St Louis School of Medicine.
(11)Rush University Medical Center.
(12)Washington University in St. Louis.
(13)BarcelonaBeta Brain Research Center.
(14)Barcelona Beta.
(15)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona - Universitat Internacional de Catalunya. 
Universitat de Barcelona (UB).
(16)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona.
(17)Universitat Internacional de Catalunya.
(18)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, 
Barcelona, Spain.

Update in
    Nat Aging. 2025 Jun;5(6):1114-1131. doi: 10.1038/s43587-025-00872-8.

Alzheimer disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder. Proteomic 
studies have been instrumental in identifying AD-related proteins present in the 
brain, cerebrospinal fluid, and plasma. This study comprehensively examined 
6,905 plasma proteins in more than 3,300 well-characterized individuals to 
identify new proteins, pathways, and predictive model for AD. With three-stage 
analysis (discovery, replication, and meta-analysis) we identified 416 proteins 
(294 novel) associated with clinical AD status and the findings were further 
validated in two external datasets including more than 7,000 samples and seven 
previous studies. Pathway analysis revealed that these proteins were involved in 
endothelial and blood hemostatic (ACHE, SMOC1, SMOC2, VEGFA, VEGFB, SPARC), 
capturing blood brain barrier (BBB) disruption due to disease. Other pathways 
were capturing known processes implicated in AD, such as lipid dysregulation 
(APOE, BIN1, CLU, SMPD1, PLA2G12A, CTSF) or immune response (C5, CFB, DEFA5, 
FBXL4), which includes proteins known to be part of the causal pathway 
indicating that some of the identified proteins and pathways are involved in 
disease pathogenesis. An enrichment of brain and neural pathways (axonal 
guidance signaling or myelination signaling) indicates that, in fact, blood 
proteomics capture brain- and disease-related changes, which can lead to the 
identification of novel biomarkers and predictive models. Machine learning model 
was employed to identify a set of seven proteins that were highly predictive of 
both clinical AD (AUC > 0.72) and biomarker-defined AD status (AUC > 0.88), that 
were replicated in multiple external cohorts as well as with orthogonal 
platforms. These extensive findings underscore the potential of using plasma 
proteins as biomarkers for early detection and monitoring of AD, as well as 
potentially guiding treatment decisions.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-5167552/v1
PMCID: PMC11957210
PMID: 40166037

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Conflict of interest CC has 
received research support from GSK and EISAI. CC is a member of the scientific 
advisory board of Circular Genomics and owns stocks. CC is a member of the 
scientific advisory board of ADmit. There is an invention disclosure for the 
prediction models, including protein IDs, alternative proteins and weights, cut 
off and algorithms. CC has served on scientific advisory for GSK and Novo 
Nordisk DMH is a co-founder with equity in C2N Diagnostics, LLC. DMH is on the 
scientific advisory boards of Genentech, Denali, C2N Diagnostics, and Cajal 
Neurosciences. DMH consults for Asteroid, Acta Pharmaceuticals, Alnylam, Pfizer, 
and Switch. TWC and HSO are co-founders and scientific advisors of Teal Omics 
Inc. and have received equity stakes. TWC is a co-founder and scientific advisor 
of Alkahest Inc. and Qinotto Inc. and has received equity stakes in these 
companies. SES has served on scientific advisory boards on biomarker testing and 
clinical care pathways for Eisai and Novo Nordisk and has received speaking fees 
for presentations on biomarker testing from Eisai, Eli Lilly, and Novo Nordisk. 
MS-C has received in the past 36mo consultancy/speaker fees (paid to the 
institution) from by Almirall, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche Diagnostics. 
He has received consultancy fees or served on advisory boards (paid to the 
institution) of Eli Lilly, Grifols, Novo Nordisk, and Roche Diagnostics. He was 
granted a project and is a site investigator of a clinical trial (funded to the 
institution) by Roche Diagnostics. MS-C did not receive any personal 
compensation from these organizations or any other for-profit organization.


19. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 19:rs.3.rs-6214340. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-6214340/v1.

Rapamycin enhances neurovascular, peripheral metabolic, and immune function in 
cognitively normal, middle-aged APOE4 Carriers: genotype-dependent effects 
compared to non-carriers.

Lin AL(1), Aware C(1), Neher C(2), Hamdi M(1), Ericsson A(1), Khegai O(3), 
Patrie J(4), Kurt M(2), Govindarajan M(1), Woods C(1), Ivanich K(1), Beversdorf 
D(1), Cheng J(1), Balchandani P(3), Gonzales M(5), Altes T(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Missouri.
(2)University of Washington.
(3)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.
(4)University of Virginia.
(5)Cedars Sinai Medical Center.

Rapamycin, known for its anti-aging properties, shows promise as a preventive 
strategy for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in APOE4 carriers-the highest-risk group 
for late-onset AD. Here we show that a 4-week open-label trial of low-dose 
Rapamycin (Sirolimus; 1mg/day) significantly improved cerebral blood flow (CBF) 
relative to baseline in cognitively normal APOE4 carriers (E4(+)) aged 45-65. It 
also reduced inflammatory cytokines, enhanced lipid metabolism, increased 
short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) and enriched gut microbiome composition linked to 
SCFA production. Conversely, non-carriers (E4(-)) displayed stable 
baseline-to-post-treatment CBF and SCFA and demonstrated different 
treatment-related patterns of metabolic and anti-inflammatory effects than 
E4(+). Serum amyloid A and tau remained unchanged for both groups. These 
findings suggest Rapamycin may counter early vascular and metabolic deficits in 
E4(+) individuals, with genotype-specific effects. By bridging anti-aging 
research and AD prevention, this study highlights a novel, safe, and 
precision-based approach to mitigating AD risk in APOE4 carriers.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-6214340/v1
PMCID: PMC11957208
PMID: 40166019


20. J Neurochem. 2025 Apr;169(4):e70053. doi: 10.1111/jnc.70053.

Alpha-Synuclein Demonstrates Varying Binding Affinities With Different Tau 
Isoforms.

Fischer AL(1), Schmitz M(1), Thom T(1), Zafar S(1), Younas N(1), da Silva 
Correia S(1), da Silva Correia A(1), Eyyuboglu SC(1), Zerr I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center Göttingen and the German 
Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Göttingen, Germany.

The hallmark of various neurodegenerative diseases is the accumulation and 
aggregation of amyloidogenic proteins, such as amyloid-beta (Aβ) and tau in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and alpha-synuclein (aSyn) in synucleinopathies. Many 
neurodegenerative diseases express mixed pathology. For instance, Lewy bodies 
are reported in tauopathies and neurofibrillary tau-tangles are detected in 
synucleinopathies, suggesting a potential co-existence or crosstalk of misfolded 
aSyn and tau. In the present study, we investigated the binding characteristics 
of monomeric aSyn with different tau isoforms by using surface plasmon resonance 
(SPR) spectroscopy allowing monitoring direct protein-protein interactions and 
their potential co-localization using SH-SY5Y cells. The calculation of the 
binding parameters (association and dissociation rate constants) indicated the 
strongest binding affinity between aSyn and tau isoform 1N3R followed by tau 
2N3R and tau 2N4R. Co-localization studies in SH-SY5Y cells, treated with aSyn 
and all six tau isoforms revealed an intracellular co-localization of aSyn with 
different isoforms of tau. Subcellular fractionation confirmed the cellular 
uptake and colocalization of tau and aSyn in the same compartment, showing their 
expression in membrane, nuclear, and cytoskeletal fractions. Understanding the 
intricate interplay between aSyn and tau is crucial for unraveling the 
pathophysiology of PD, AD, and related neurodegenerative disorders, ultimately 
paving the way for the development of effective treatments targeting this 
interaction. In conclusion, our data indicate that aSyn and tau are direct 
interaction partners with varying binding affinities depending on the tau 
isoform. This interaction may be significant for understanding the 
pathophysiology of dementia with mixed pathologies.

© 2025 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.70053
PMID: 40165586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(1):245-257. doi: 10.1177/13872877251325575.
Epub  2025 Mar 31.

One-year exercise improves cognition and fitness and decreases vascular 
stiffness and reactivity to CO2 in amnestic mild cognitive impairment.

Penukonda S(1), Srinivasan S(1), Tarumi T(2), Tomoto T(2), Sheng M(1), Cullum 
CM(3)(4), Zhang R(2)(5), Lu H(1), Thomas BP(1)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Imaging Research Center, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(2)Institute for Exercise and Environmental Medicine, Texas Health Presbyterian 
Hospital, Dallas, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(6)Department of Bioengineering, University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, 
TX, USA.
(7)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.

BackgroundAmnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) is often a precursor stage 
to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Aerobic exercise (AE) has received increasing 
attention in the prevention of AD. While there is some evidence that it improves 
neurocognitive function in older individuals, the effect of exercise in the 
long-term is not well understood.ObjectiveTo assess the effect of long-term 
exercise on cognition, fitness, vascular stiffness, and cerebrovascular 
reactivity (CVR).MethodsIn this prospective clinical trial, 27 aMCI participants 
were enrolled into two groups and underwent 12 months of intervention. One group 
(n = 11) underwent AE training (6M/5F, age = 66.2 years), and the control group 
(n = 16) performed stretch training (ST group, 9M/7F, age = 66.4 years). Both 
groups performed training three times per week with duration and intensity 
gradually increased over time. CVR was measured at pre- and post-training using 
blood-oxygenation-level-dependent MRI.ResultsIn the AE group, aerobic fitness 
improved (p = 0.034) and carotid artery stiffness decreased (p = 0.005), which 
was not observed in the ST group. In all participants, decreases in carotid 
artery stiffness were associated with increases in aerobic fitness (p = 0.043). 
The AE group displayed decreases in CVR in the anterior cingulate cortex and 
middle frontal gyrus (p < 0.05, FWE corrected); the ST group did not show 
significant changes in CVR. Several measures of cognition (i.e., inhibition and 
delayed recall), neuropsychiatric symptoms, and functional status ratings 
improved only in the AE group.ConclusionsThese results suggest that AE may alter 
cerebral hemodynamics in patients with aMCI which may improve cognitive, 
psychological, and functional status.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251325575
PMCID: PMC12231805
PMID: 40165376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


22. Mol Neurodegener. 2025 Mar 31;20(1):39. doi: 10.1186/s13024-025-00828-x.

Immune modulation to treat Alzheimer's disease.

Duggan MR(1), Morgan DG(2), Price BR(3), Rajbanshi B(4), Martin-Peña A(5)(6), 
Tansey MG(5)(6), Walker KA(7).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, 
Intramural Research Program, Baltimore, MD, 21224, USA.
(2)Department of Translational Neuroscience, College of Human Medicine, Michigan 
State University, Grand Rapids, MI, 49503, USA.
(3)GE Health Care, Marlborough, MA, 01752, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, 94158, USA.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, College of Medicine, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, 32610, USA.
(6)McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, 32610, USA.
(7)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, 
Intramural Research Program, Baltimore, MD, 21224, USA. Keenan.walker@nih.gov.

Immune mechanisms play a fundamental role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathogenesis, suggesting that approaches which target immune cells and 
immunologically relevant molecules can offer therapeutic opportunities beyond 
the recently approved amyloid beta monoclonal therapies. In this review, we 
provide an overview of immunomodulatory therapeutics in development, including 
their preclinical evidence and clinical trial results. Along with detailing 
immune processes involved in AD pathogenesis and highlighting how these 
mechanisms can be therapeutically targeted to modify disease progression, we 
summarize knowledge gained from previous trials of immune-based interventions, 
and provide a series of recommendations for the development of future 
immunomodulatory therapeutics to treat AD.

© 2025. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1186/s13024-025-00828-x
PMCID: PMC11956194
PMID: 40165251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: KAW is an Associate Editor at Alzheimer’s & Dementia, a member of the 
Editorial Board of Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology, and on the 
Board of Directors of the National Academy of Neuropsychology. BRP is an 
employee of GE Healthcare.


23. BMC Psychiatry. 2025 Mar 31;25(1):307. doi: 10.1186/s12888-025-06741-3.

Impact of combined art-based intervention on functional connectivity of multiple 
brain networks in older adults along the cognitive continuum: result from a 
parallel randomised controlled trial.

Yan YJ(#)(1)(2), Lin R(#)(1), Luo YT(1), Huang CS(1), Cai WC(2)(3), Su JW(2)(3), 
Lin SM(2)(3), Lin MJ(4), Li H(5).

Author information:
(1)The School of Nursing, Fujian Medical University, University Town, 1 Xue Yuan 
Road, Fuzhou, 350122, Fujian, China.
(2)Shengli Clinical Medical College of Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 
350001, China.
(3)Radiology Department, Fuzhou University Affiliated Provincial Hospital, 
Fuzhou, 350122, China.
(4)The School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 
350122, China. mjlin@mail.fjmu.edu.cn.
(5)The School of Nursing, Fujian Medical University, University Town, 1 Xue Yuan 
Road, Fuzhou, 350122, Fujian, China. leehong99@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Combined art-based interventions (CAIs) are considered effective 
treatment options for older adults along the cognitive continuum; however, the 
neural mechanisms underlying associated changes in neurocognitive performance 
remain unclear. Thus, we aimed to investigate the impact of a CAI programme in 
older adults along the cognitive continuum and to understand its mechanism.
METHODS: This parallel-arm randomised controlled trial was conducted between 
April 2021 and January 2023. Participants were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to 
either intervention group (IG) or waitlist control group (WG). The IG underwent 
a 16-week CAI programme. Neuropsychological assessments and magnetic resonance 
imaging were conducted before and after the intervention.
RESULTS: After the intervention, the IG showed greater improvement in general 
cognitive function, language, and memory than the WG. Significant differences 
were observed in the functional connectivity (FC) values in the temporal and 
cerebellar anterior lobes, fusiform, inferior occipital, and lingual gyri, and 
perirhinal and visual cortices between the groups. Further analyses showed that 
FC values were reduced in these regions in the IG. In addition, changes in FC 
values were positively correlated with those in neuropsychological test scores 
in the IG.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that the CAI programme can effectively improve 
general cognitive function, language, and memory in older adults along the 
cognitive continuum. These improvements may be changed due to decreases in FC in 
key brain regions, deepening the understanding of the neurocentral mechanisms 
that act as a tool for improving cognitive function.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial was registered at ChiCTR.org. Identifier: 
ChiCTR2100044959, 03/04/2021.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-025-06741-3
PMCID: PMC11956415
PMID: 40165137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: All procedures contributing to this work comply with the ethical 
standards of the relevant national and institutional committees on human 
experimentation and with the Helsinki Declaration of 1975, as revised in 2008. 
All procedures involving human subjects/patients were approved by the Ethics 
Committee of Fujian Provincial Hospital, Fujian Province, China (reference 
number: K2020-03-069). Consent for publication: Written informed consent was 
obtained from each participant or a family member. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


24. Mol Neurobiol. 2025 Aug;62(8):9782-9799. doi: 10.1007/s12035-025-04887-5.
Epub  2025 Mar 31.

3-(3-(diethylamino)propyl)-2-(4-(methylthio)phenyl)thiazolidin-4-one Attenuates 
Scopolamine-induced Cognitive Impairment in Rats: Insights Into Neuroprotective 
Effects.

de Souza AA(1), Goularte KCM(1), Piccoli RC(1), Custódio SV(1), de Mello JE(1), 
Victor MG(2), Domingues WB(3), de Souza LP(3), Dos Santos Gonçalves L(3), Campos 
VF(1)(3), Cunico W(2), Oses JP(1), Stefanello FM(1), de Aguiar MSS(4), 
Spanevello RM(5).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Biochemistry and Bioprospection - Laboratory of 
Neurochemistry, Inflammation, and Cancer - Center the Chemical, Pharmaceutical, 
and Food Sciences, Federal University of Pelotas, Capão Do Leão Campus S/N, 
Pelotas-RS, CEP 96010‑900, Brazil.
(2)Graduate Program in Biochemistry and Bioprospecting - Laboratory of Chemistry 
Applied to Bioactive - Center the Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences, 
Federal University of Pelotas, Capão Do Leão Campus S/N, Pelotas-RS, CEP 
96010‑900, Brazil.
(3)Graduate Program in Biotechnology - Laboratory of Structural Genomics - 
Technological Development Center, Federal University of Pelotas, Capão Do Leão 
Campus, S/N, Pelotas-RS, RS, CEP 96010‑900, Brazil.
(4)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine - Laboratory of 
Neuroscience and Behavior - Drug Research and Development Center, Federal 
University of Ceará, Fortaleza-CE, CEP 60020-181, Brazil.
(5)Graduate Program in Biochemistry and Bioprospection - Laboratory of 
Neurochemistry, Inflammation, and Cancer - Center the Chemical, Pharmaceutical, 
and Food Sciences, Federal University of Pelotas, Capão Do Leão Campus S/N, 
Pelotas-RS, CEP 96010‑900, Brazil. rspanevello@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is characterized by memory decline, dysregulation in 
cholinergic and purinergic signaling, neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress. 
Current treatments are limited, highlighting the need for new compounds to 
prevent or delay AD progression. Thiazolidinones have emerged as promising 
candidates due to their antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anticholinesterase 
properties. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of 
3-(3-(diethylamino)propyl)-2-(4-(methylthio)phenyl)thiazolidin-4-one (DS27) in a 
rat model of scopolamine-induced memory deficits. Male rats were divided into 
groups: I - Control, II - Scopolamine (SCO) (1 mg/kg), III - SCO and DS27 
(5 mg/kg), IV - SCO and DS27 (10 mg/kg), V - SCO and donepezil (5 mg/kg). The 
animals were treated orally with DS27 or donepezil for seven days. On the 8th 
day, they underwent the open field test and inhibitory avoidance training, 
followed by intraperitoneal administration SCO. Twenty-four hours later, an 
inhibitory avoidance test was conducted. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, 
oxidative stress, and inflammatory and purinergic parameters were analyzed in 
the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebrospinal fluid, serum, lymphocytes, and 
liver. DS27 prevented memory deficits, alterations in AChE activity, and 
oxidative damage induced by SCO in brain structures. Additionally, DS27 
prevented SCO-induced decrease in IL-10 levels, and increase in IL-6, and TNF-α 
expression in the cerebral cortex, and normalized ATP and ADP hydrolysis in 
cerebrospinal fluid and lymphocytes. DS27 did not induce oxidative stress in the 
liver or alter serum biochemical parameters. These findings suggest that DS27 
has significant neuroprotective properties and could be a promising alternative 
for treating neurodegenerative diseases like AD.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-025-04887-5
PMID: 40164887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: All animal 
experiments were carried out in accordance with the National Institutes of 
Health Guidelines for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals and approved by the 
Ethics Committee on the Use of Animals of the Federal University of Pelotas 
(protocol number: 022443/2023–12). All animals received care in compliance with 
the principles of laboratory animal standards. Consent to Participate: Not 
applicable. Consent to Publish: Not applicable. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


25. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2025 Mar 31. doi: 10.1007/s00702-025-02916-0.
Online  ahead of print.

Alzheimer mimicry: LATE and PART.

Bogdanovic N(1)(2), Smailovic U(3)(4), Jelic V(5)(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Cognitive Disorders M52, Karolinska University Hospital-Huddinge, 
Theme Aging, 14186, Stockholm, Sweden. nenad.bogdanovic@ki.se.
(2)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Center for Alzheimer Research, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, 
Sweden. nenad.bogdanovic@ki.se.
(3)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Division of Clinical Geriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences 
and Society, Center for Alzheimer Research, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, 
Sweden.
(5)Clinic for Cognitive Disorders M52, Karolinska University Hospital-Huddinge, 
Theme Aging, 14186, Stockholm, Sweden.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the main cause of dementia and accounts for 60% of 
dementia syndromes in people older than 75 years. The correct classification of 
AD and non-AD cases is mandatory to study disease mechanisms or new treatment 
possibilities. A typical clinical picture of AD consists of a progressive 
cognitive decline, with primary memory impairment. Structural, functional, and 
molecular brain imaging, along with CSF biomarkers of amyloid pathology, 
neurodegeneration, and the presence of a vulnerability-associated APOE genotype, 
support the diagnosis of AD. Use of biomarkers have led to the identification of 
individuals with mild cognitive impairment who are amyloid-negative addressing a 
conceptually separate clinical entity named suspected non-Alzheimer disease 
pathophysiology (SNAP). Clinical presentation and progression of SNAP can mimic 
AD which makes the final diagnosis and possible treatment uncertain in up to 30% 
of cases in clinical centers that are not using biomarkers. These non-AD 
pathologies are common with advancing age both in cognitively impaired and 
clinically normal elderly people and include Argyrophilic Grain Disease (ARG), 
Tangle Predominant Dementia and TDP-43 proteinopathy. The terms Primary 
age-related tauopathy (PART) and Limbic-dominant TDP-43 age-related 
encephalopathy (LATE) have been proposed as the most common and useful 
biological and emerging clinical construct to describe this phenomenon 
in > 80 years old individuals. Current evidence underlines the limitations of 
existing diagnostic tools, which remain inadequate for fully capturing the 
complexities of these conditions. Addressing these diagnostic ambiguities is 
crucial for assigning accurate diagnoses, reducing frequent misdiagnoses of AD, 
and implementing appropriate therapeutic strategies for elderly patients with 
mild cognitive impairment and dementia.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-025-02916-0
PMID: 40164861


26. Inflamm Res. 2025 Apr 1;74(1):61. doi: 10.1007/s00011-025-02016-5.

APOE4 impairs autophagy and Aβ clearance by microglial cells.

Bassal R(1), Rivkin-Natan M(1)(2), Rabinovich A(1), Michaelson DM(1)(2), Frenkel 
D(1)(2), Pinkas-Kramarski R(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Neurobiology, Biochemistry and Biophysics, Tel-Aviv University, 
Ramat-Aviv, 69978, Israel.
(2)Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)School of Neurobiology, Biochemistry and Biophysics, Tel-Aviv University, 
Ramat-Aviv, 69978, Israel. lironit@tauex.tau.ac.il.
(4)Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. 
lironit@tauex.tau.ac.il.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a predominant form of dementia in elderly. In 
sporadic AD and in families with higher risk of AD, correlation with 
apolipoprotein E4 (APOE) allele expression has been found. How APOE4 induces its 
pathological effects is still unclear. Several studies indicate that autophagy, 
a major degradation pathway trough the lysosome, may be compromised in AD. Here 
we studied, the effects of APOE isoforms expression in microglia cells. By using 
an in-situ model, the clearance of Aβ plaques from brain sections of transgenic 
5xFAD mice by the APOE expressing microglia was examined. The results show that 
APOE4 microglia has Impairment In clearance of insoluble Aβ plaques as compared 
to APOE3 and APOE2 microglia. Furthermore, APOE4 affect the uptake of soluble 
Aβ. We found that microglia expressing APOE4 exhibit reduced autophagic flux as 
compared to those expressing APOE3. The autophagy inhibitor chloroquine also 
blocked Aβ plaque uptake in APOE3 expressing cells. Furthermore, we found that 
APOE4 expressing microglia have altered mitochondrial dynamics protein 
expression, mitochondrial morphology and mitochondrial activity compared to 
those expressing APOE2, and APOE3. Rapamycin treatment corrected Mitochondrial 
Membrane Potential in APOE4-expressing cells. Taken together, these findings 
suggest that APOE4 impairs the activation of autophagy, mitophagy, and Aβ 
clearance and that autophagy-inducing treatments, such as rapamycin, can enhance 
autophagy and mitochondrial functions in APOE4 expressing microglia. Our results 
reveal a direct link between APOE4 to autophagy activity in microglia, 
suggesting that the pathological effects of APOE4 could be counteracted by 
pharmacological treatments inducing autophagy, such as rapamycin.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00011-025-02016-5
PMCID: PMC11958439
PMID: 40164781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


27. Nat Biotechnol. 2025 Mar 31. doi: 10.1038/s41587-025-02624-w. Online ahead of
 print.

Circular RNA aptamers targeting neuroinflammation ameliorate Alzheimer disease 
phenotypes in mouse models.

Feng X(#)(1), Jiang BW(#)(1), Zhai SN(2)(3), Liu CX(1), Wu H(1), Zhu BQ(1)(4), 
Wei MY(1), Wei J(2), Yang L(2), Chen LL(5)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of RNA Innovation, Science and Engineering, New Cornerstone 
Science Laboratory, CAS Center for Excellence in Molecular Cell Science, 
Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, University of Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(2)Center for Molecular Medicine, Children's Hospital of Fudan University and 
Shanghai Key Laboratory of Medical Epigenetics, International Laboratory of 
Medical Epigenetics and Metabolism, Ministry of Science and Technology, 
Institutes of Biomedical Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai Institute of Nutrition and Health, University of Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(4)School of Life Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai, 
China.
(5)Key Laboratory of RNA Innovation, Science and Engineering, New Cornerstone 
Science Laboratory, CAS Center for Excellence in Molecular Cell Science, 
Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, University of Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China. 
linglingchen@sibcb.ac.cn.
(6)School of Life Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai, 
China. linglingchen@sibcb.ac.cn.
(7)School of Life Science and Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 
Shanghai, China. linglingchen@sibcb.ac.cn.
(8)Shanghai Academy of Natural Sciences (SANS), Shanghai, China. 
linglingchen@sibcb.ac.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer disease (AD) therapy may benefit from optimized approaches to inhibit 
neuroinflammation. Small-molecule inhibitors of the proinflammatory molecule 
double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-activated protein kinase R (PKR) have efficacy in AD 
models but their utility is compromised by adverse side effects. Here, we target 
PKR in two mouse models of AD using circular RNAs containing short 
double-stranded regions (ds-cRNAs), which are structurally similar to what we 
used previously to target PKR in psoriasis models. We show that the 
intrahippocampal injection of ds-cRNAs to neurons and microglia by 
adeno-associated virus (AAV) effectively dampens excessive PKR activity with 
minimal toxicity, accompanied by reduced neuroinflammation and amyloid-β 
plaques. We also deliver ds-cRNAs to the whole brain through intravenous 
injection of AAV-PHP.eB, which crosses the blood-brain barrier, resulting in 
neuroprotection and enhanced capability of spatial learning and memory in AD 
mouse models. The delivery of ds-cRNAs at different progressive stages of AD 
alleviates disease phenotypes, with therapeutic effects sustained for at least 
6 months after a single administration.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41587-025-02624-w
PMID: 40164764

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: L.-L.C., X.F. and C.-X.L. 
are named as inventors on patents related to circRNA aptamers held by the CEMCS, 
CAS. L.-L.C. is a scientific cofounder of RiboX Therapeutics. The other authors 
declare no competing interests.


28. Nat Med. 2025 Jun;31(6):2044-2053. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03617-7. Epub 2025
 Mar 31.

Plasma MTBR-tau243 biomarker identifies tau tangle pathology in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Horie K(#)(1)(2)(3), Salvadó G(#)(4), Koppisetti RK(5)(6), Janelidze S(4), 
Barthélemy NR(5)(7), He Y(5)(7), Sato C(5)(7), Gordon BA(8)(9), Jiang H(7), 
Benzinger TLS(8)(9)(10), Stomrud E(4)(11), Holtzman DM(7)(9)(10), 
Mattsson-Carlgren N(4)(11)(12), Morris JC(7)(9), Palmqvist S(4)(11), 
Ossenkoppele R(4)(13)(14), Schindler SE(7)(9), Hansson O(#)(15), Bateman 
RJ(#)(16)(17)(18)(19).

Author information:
(1)The Tracy Family SILQ Center, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA. horiekanta@wustl.edu.
(2)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA. horiekanta@wustl.edu.
(3)Eisai Inc., Nutley, NJ, USA. horiekanta@wustl.edu.
(4)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(5)The Tracy Family SILQ Center, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.
(8)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.
(9)Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(10)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(11)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(12)Wallenberg Center for Molecular Medicine, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(13)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(14)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(15)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden. oskar.hansson@med.lu.se.
(16)The Tracy Family SILQ Center, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA. batemanr@wustl.edu.
(17)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA. batemanr@wustl.edu.
(18)Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. batemanr@wustl.edu.
(19)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. batemanr@wustl.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Insoluble tau aggregates within neurofibrillary tangles are a defining 
neuropathological feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and closely correlate with 
clinical symptoms. Although tau pathology can be assessed using tau positron 
emission tomography, a more accessible biomarker is needed for diagnosis, 
prognosis and tracking treatment effects. Here we present a new plasma tau 
species, the endogenously cleaved, microtubule-binding region containing residue 
243 (eMTBR-tau243), which specifically reflects tau tangle pathology. Across the 
AD spectrum in three different cohorts (n = 108, 55 and 739), plasma 
eMTBR-tau243 levels were significantly elevated at the mild cognitive impairment 
stage and increased further in dementia. Plasma eMTBR-tau243 showed strong 
associations with tau positron emission tomography binding (β = 0.72, R2 = 0.56) 
and cognitive performance (β = 0.60, R2 = 0.40), outperforming other plasma tau 
(%p-tau217 and %p-tau205) biomarkers. These results suggest that plasma 
eMTBR-tau243 may be useful for estimating the tauopathy load in AD, thereby 
improving the diagnostic evaluation of AD in clinical practice and monitoring 
the efficacy of tau-targeted therapies in clinical trials.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03617-7
PMCID: PMC12176612
PMID: 40164726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: K.H. is an Eisai-sponsored 
voluntary research associate professor at Washington University and has received 
a salary from Eisai. Washington University, R.J.B. and D.M.H. have equity 
ownership interest in C2N Diagnostics. R.J.B. and D.M.H. receive income from C2N 
Diagnostics for serving on the scientific advisory board. K.H., N.R.B., C.S. and 
R.J.B. may receive income based on technology (Methods to detect MTBR tau 
isoforms and use thereof; PCT/US2020/046224) licensed by Washington University 
to C2N Diagnostics. K.H., H.J., D.M.H. and R.J.B. may receive income based on 
technology (Anti-tau MTBR antibodies and methods to detect endogenously cleaved 
fragments of tau and uses thereof; PCT/US2023/072738) licensed by Washington 
University to C2N Diagnostics. R.J.B. is an unpaid scientific advisory board 
member of Roche and Biogen, and receives research funding from Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen, Roche or Genentech, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Biogen, 
AbbVie, Bristol Myers Squibb and Novartis. O.H. is an employee of Eli Lilly and 
Lund University and has previously acquired research support (for Lund 
University) from AVID Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, C2N Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, 
Eisai, Fujirebio, GE Healthcare and Roche. In the past 2 years, he has received 
consultancy or speaker fees from ALZpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol Meyer 
Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, 
Sanofi and Siemens. S.E.S. has served on scientific advisory boards or given 
lectures for Eisai, Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk. D.M.H. is on the scientific 
advisory board of Genentech, Denali and Cajal Neurosciences and Switch, and 
consults for Asteroid and Roche. S.P. has acquired research support (for the 
institution) from ki elements or ADDF and Avid. In the past 2 years, he has 
received consultancy or speaker fees from BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk and Roche. The other authors declare no competing interests.


29. Nat Med. 2025 May;31(5):1592-1603. doi: 10.1038/s41591-025-03565-2. Epub 2025
 Mar 31.

A cerebrospinal fluid synaptic protein biomarker for prediction of cognitive 
resilience versus decline in Alzheimer's disease.

Oh HS(1)(2)(3), Urey DY(4)(5), Karlsson L(6), Zhu Z(7), Shen Y(8)(9), Farinas 
A(4)(5)(10), Timsina J(8)(9), Duggan MR(11), Chen J(12), Guldner IH(13), Morshed 
N(14)(15), Yang C(8)(9), Western D(8)(9), Ali M(8)(9), Le Guen Y(13)(16), Trelle 
A(11), Herukka SK(17), Rauramaa T(18), Hiltunen M(19), Lipponen A(19), Luikku 
AJ(20), Poston KL(4)(5)(13), Mormino E(13), Wagner AD(5)(21), Wilson 
EN(4)(5)(13), Channappa D(4)(5)(13), Leinonen V(20), Stevens B(14)(15)(22), 
Ehrenberg AJ(23)(24)(25), Gottesman RF(26), Coresh J(27), Walker KA(11), 
Zetterberg H(28)(29)(30)(31)(32)(33), Bennett DA(34), Franzmeier N(7)(35)(36), 
Hansson O(6)(37), Cruchaga C(8)(9), Wyss-Coray T(38)(39)(40).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA. hamilton.oh@mssm.edu.
(2)The Phil and Penny Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA. hamilton.oh@mssm.edu.
(3)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA. 
hamilton.oh@mssm.edu.
(4)The Phil and Penny Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(5)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(6)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(7)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research (ISD), University Hospital, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(9)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, 
USA.
(10)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(11)Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, National Institute on Aging, National 
Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(12)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(13)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(14)Boston Children's Hospital, F.M. Kirby Neurobiology Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(15)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, The Broad Institute of MIT and 
Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(16)Quantitative Sciences Unit, Department of Medicine, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(17)Department of Neurology, Kuopio University Hospital and Institute of 
Clinical Medicine - Neurology, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(18)Department of Pathology, Kuopio University Hospital and Institute of 
Clinical Medicine - Pathology, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(19)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(20)Department of Neurosurgery, Kuopio University Hospital and Institute of 
Clinical Medicine - Neurosurgery, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(21)Department of Psychology & Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(22)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Boston, MA, USA.
(23)Memory and Aging Center, Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(24)Innovative Genomics Institute, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, 
CA, USA.
(25)Department of Neuroscience, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, 
CA, USA.
(26)Stroke Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, 
Bethesda, MD, USA.
(27)Departments of Population Health and Medicine, New York University Grossman 
School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(28)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(29)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(30)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(31)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(32)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(33)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA.
(34)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA.
(35)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(36)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, University of Gothenburg, The Sahlgrenska Academy, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(37)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(38)The Phil and Penny Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA. twc@stanford.edu.
(39)Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA. 
twc@stanford.edu.
(40)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA. twc@stanford.edu.

Rates of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are extremely 
heterogeneous. Although biomarkers for amyloid-beta (Aβ) and tau proteins, the 
hallmark AD pathologies, have improved pathology-based diagnosis, they explain 
only 20-40% of the variance in AD-related cognitive impairment (CI). To discover 
novel biomarkers of CI in AD, we performed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteomics 
on 3,397 individuals from six major prospective AD case-control cohorts. Synapse 
proteins emerged as the strongest correlates of CI, independent of Aβ and tau. 
Using machine learning, we derived the CSF YWHAG:NPTX2 synapse protein ratio, 
which explained 27% of the variance in CI beyond CSF pTau181:Aβ42, 11% beyond 
tau positron emission tomography, and 28% beyond CSF neurofilament, 
growth-associated protein 43 and neurogranin in Aβ+ and phosphorylated tau+ 
(A+T1+) individuals. CSF YWHAG:NPTX2 also increased with normal aging and 20 
years before estimated symptom onset in carriers of autosomal dominant AD 
mutations. Regarding cognitive prognosis, CSF YWHAG:NPTX2 predicted conversion 
from A+T1+ cognitively normal to mild cognitive impairment (standard deviation 
increase hazard ratio = 3.0, P = 7.0 × 10-4) and A+T1+ mild cognitive impairment 
to dementia (standard deviation increase hazard ratio = 2.2, P = 8.2 × 10-16) 
over a 15-year follow-up, adjusting for CSF pTau181:Aβ42, CSF neurofilament, CSF 
neurogranin, CSF growth-associated protein 43, age, APOE4 and sex. We also 
developed a plasma proteomic signature of CI, which we evaluated in 13,401 
samples, which partly recapitulated CSF YWHAG:NPTX2. Overall, our findings 
underscore CSF YWHAG:NPTX2 as a robust prognostic biomarker for cognitive 
resilience versus AD onset and progression, highlight the potential of plasma 
proteomics in replacing CSF measurement and further implicate synapse 
dysfunction as a core driver of AD dementia.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-025-03565-2
PMCID: PMC12092275
PMID: 40164724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: T.W-C. and H.S.-H.O. are 
cofounders and scientific advisers of Teal Omics and have received equity 
stakes. C.C. has received research support from GSK and Eisai. C.C. is a member 
of the scientific advisory board of Circular Genomics and owns stocks. C.C. is a 
member of the scientific advisory board of ADmit. C.C. and M.A. have an 
invention disclosure for AT1 prediction models, including protein IDs, weights, 
cutoffs and algorithms. O.H. has acquired research support (for the institution) 
from AVID Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, C2N Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Eisai, 
Fujirebio, GE Healthcare and Roche. In the past 2 years, he has received 
consultancy and speaker fees from ALZpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, 
Sanofi and Siemens. H.Z. has served at scientific advisory boards or as a 
consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, 
Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, Cognition 
Therapeutics, Denali, Eisai, Labcorp, Merry Life Biomedical, NervGen Pharma, 
Novo Nordisk, OptoCeutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red 
Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics 
and Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by AlzeCure, Biogen, 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk and Roche, and is a cofounder of 
Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg, which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program (outside the submitted work). The other authors declare no 
competing interests.


30. Mol Psychiatry. 2025 Sep;30(9):3951-3962. doi: 10.1038/s41380-025-02973-7.
Epub  2025 Mar 31.

Metagenomic analysis characterizes stage-specific gut microbiota in Alzheimer's 
disease.

Jia L(#)(1), Ke Y(#)(2), Zhao S(3), Liu J(1), Luo X(1), Cao J(1), Liu Y(3), Guo 
Q(4), Chen WH(5)(6), Chen F(7); ZIB Consortium; Wang J(8), Wu H(9), Ding J(10), 
Zhao XM(11)(12)(13)(14)(15).

Collaborators: Feng J, Schumann G, Jia T, Yao S, Wang X, Zhang T, Shi S, Luo Q, 
Wang J, Zhang J, Wang X, Liu D, Yu B, Wang H, Li F, Cao M, Yu C, Yang G, Zhang 
XY, Vatansever D, Chen J, Lo CZ, Zhao XM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Zhongshan Hospital and Institute of Science and 
Technology for Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200433, 
China.
(2)Fudan Microbiome Center, State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, School 
of Life Sciences, Human Phenome Institute, and Center for Obesity and Hernia 
Surgery, Department of General Surgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200040, China.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Neural Biology, School of Life Sciences, Shanghai 
University, Shanghai, 200444, China.
(4)Department of Gerontology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Affiliated Sixth 
People's Hospital, Shanghai, 200233, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics of the Ministry of Education, Hubei 
Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics and Molecular Imaging, Center for Artificial 
Intelligence Biology, Department of Bioinformatics and Systems Biology, College 
of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 
Wuhan, 430074, China.
(6)Institution of Medical Artificial Intelligence, Binzhou Medical University, 
Yantai, 264003, China.
(7)Department of Radiology, Hainan General Hospital (Hainan Affiliated Hospital 
of Hainan Medical University), Haikou, Hainan, 570311, China.
(8)Laboratory of Molecular Neural Biology, School of Life Sciences, Shanghai 
University, Shanghai, 200444, China. jo717@shu.edu.cn.
(9)Fudan Microbiome Center, State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, School 
of Life Sciences, Human Phenome Institute, and Center for Obesity and Hernia 
Surgery, Department of General Surgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200040, China. hao_w@fudan.edu.cn.
(10)Department of Neurology, Zhongshan Hospital and Institute of Science and 
Technology for Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200433, 
China. ding.jing@zs-hospital.sh.cn.
(11)Department of Neurology, Zhongshan Hospital and Institute of Science and 
Technology for Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200433, 
China. xmzhao@fudan.edu.cn.
(12)Lingang Laboratory, Shanghai, 200031, China. xmzhao@fudan.edu.cn.
(13)State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, Institutes of Brain Science, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, China. xmzhao@fudan.edu.cn.
(14)MOE Key Laboratory of Computational Neuroscience and Brain‑Inspired 
Intelligence, and MOE Frontiers Center for Brain Science, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200433, China. xmzhao@fudan.edu.cn.
(15)Huzhou Central Hospital, Affiliated Central Hospital Huzhou University, 
Huzhou, Zhejiang, 313000, China. xmzhao@fudan.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with a 
decade-long preclinical pathological period that can be divided into several 
stages. Emerging evidence has revealed that the microbiota-gut-brain axis plays 
an important role in AD pathology. However, the role of gut microbiota in 
different AD stages has not been well characterized. In this study, we performed 
fecal shotgun metagenomic analysis on a Chinese cohort with 476 participants 
across five stages of AD pathology to characterize stage-specific alterations in 
gut microbiota and evaluate their diagnostic potential. We discovered extensive 
gut dysbiosis that is associated with neuroinflammation and neurotransmitter 
dysregulation, with over 10% of microbial species and gene families showing 
significant alterations during AD progression. Furthermore, we demonstrated that 
microbial gene families exhibited strong diagnostic capabilities, evidenced by 
an average AUC of 0.80 in cross-validation and 0.75 in independent external 
validation. In the optimal model, the most discriminant gene families are 
primarily involved in the metabolism of carbohydrates, amino acids, energy, 
glycan and vitamins. We found that stage-specific microbial gene families in AD 
pathology could be validated by an in vitro gut simulator and were associated 
with specific genera. We also observed that the gut microbiota could affect the 
progression of cognitive decline in 5xFAD mice through fecal microbiota 
transplantation, which could be used for early intervention of AD. Our 
multi-stage large cohort metagenomic analysis demonstrates that alterations in 
gut microbiota occur from the very early stages of AD pathology, offering 
important etiological and diagnostic insights.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41380-025-02973-7
PMID: 40164697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


31. Sci Rep. 2025 Mar 31;15(1):10979. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-81175-7.

Ferulic acid lipid nano capsules versus its native form in alleviating diabetic 
nephropathy induced in rats through TGF-β1/Hippo pathway crosstalk modulation.

Zohny MH(1), El-Far YM(2), Kabil MF(3), El-Swefy SE(1), El-Sherbiny IM(3), 
El-Shishtawy MM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Delta 
University for Science and Technology, Gamasa, 11152, Egypt.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura, 35516, Egypt.
(3)Nanomedicine Research Labs, Center for Materials Sciences, Zewail City of 
Science and Technology, 6th of October City, Giza, 12578, Egypt.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura, 35516, Egypt. mshisht@mans.edu.eg.

Diabetic nephropathy is one of the most common leading causes of end-stage renal 
disease with multifactorial pathophysiological mechanisms. TGF-β1 and Hippo 
pathway have been reported to have significant role in different kidney 
diseases. In addition, ferulic acid (FA) has been proposed to have 
pharmacological actions in different disorders such as Alzheimer, diabetes 
mellitus, kidney, and cardiovascular diseases but with limited oral use due to 
poor absorbance and bioavailability. So, recent trends aim to include FA in 
nano-formulations to improve its absorbance and bioavailability and to make best 
use of its pharmacological actions when administered orally. Thirty Sprague 
Dawley male rats were divided into five groups (n = 6). After 28 days, rats were 
sacrificed, serum and kidney tissue were isolated, histopathological 
examination, serum creatinine level and oxidative status biomarkers in kidney 
tissue were estimated, besides ELISA measurements of TGF-β1, PTEN, COX2, and 
GLUT3 and the relative gene expressions of MST1 and TEAD4 by qRT-PCR. Treated 
groups show improvement of the investigated parameters in variable degrees. 
Noteworthy, FA nano-formulation shows superior action over double of the native 
form.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-81175-7
PMCID: PMC11958811
PMID: 40164664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


32. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 2025 Jun;92:102961. doi: 10.1016/j.conb.2024.102961.
Epub  2025 Mar 31.

CaMKII mechanisms that promote pathological LTP impairments.

Larsen ME(1), Rumian NL(2), Quillinan N(3), Bayer KU(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Aurora, CO 80045, USA; Program in Neuroscience, 
University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO 80045, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Aurora, CO 80045, USA.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Aurora, CO 80045, USA; Program in Neuroscience, 
University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO 80045, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Aurora, CO 80045, USA; Program in Neuroscience, 
University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO 80045, USA. 
Electronic address: ulli.bayer@cuanschutz.edu.

The Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is extremely abundant 
in the brain, where it prominently mediates hippocampal long-term potentiation 
(LTP), a form of synaptic plasticity thought to be required for learning and 
memory. However, CaMKII also mediates LTP impairments related to Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and global cerebral ischemia (GCI), two conditions that are very 
distinct but are both associated with impairments in learning and memory. In 
both cases, CaMKII inhibitors prevented these LTP impairments. Thus, CaMKII 
actively mediates both physiological LTP and the pathological LTP impairments 
related to AD and GCI. Notably, these active LTP impairment mechanisms are in 
stark contrast to other conditions, like normal aging, where milder LTP 
impairments are caused instead by passive lack of CaMKII function.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.conb.2024.102961
PMID: 40164520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest K.U.B. is a 
co-founder and board member of Neurexis Therapeutics, a company that seeks to 
develop a CaMKII inhibitor into a therapeutic drug for cerebral ischemia. 
M.E.L., N.L.R., N.Q. and K.U.B. are named inventors on patent applications on 
the use of CaMKII inhibitors in Alzheimer's disease and related conditions.


33. Neuroscience. 2025 Jun 7;576:167-181. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.03.064.  Epub 2025 Mar 29.

A review: From old drugs to new solutions: The role of repositioning in 
alzheimer's disease treatment.

Shah FA(1), Qadir H(2), Khan JZ(3), Faheem M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam 
bin Abdulaziz University, Al-Kharj, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
f.shah@psau.edu.sa.
(2)Shifa College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, STMU, Islamabad Pakistan. 
Electronic address: halima.scps@stmu.edu.pk.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam 
University, Islamabad Pakistan. Electronic address: jehanzeb@bs.qau.edu.pk.
(4)Riphah Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Riphah International University 
Islamabad, Pakistan. Electronic address: fahimafridi345@gmail.com.

Drug repositioning or drug reprofiling, involves identifying novel indications 
for approved and previously abandoned drugs in the treatment of other diseases. 
The traditional drug discovery process is tedious, time-consuming, risky, and 
challenging. Fortunately, the inception of the drug repositioning concept has 
expedited the process by using compounds with established safety profiles in 
humans, and thereby significantly reducing costs. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a 
severe neurological disorder characterized by progressive degeneration of the 
brain with limited and less effective therapeutic interventions. Researchers 
have attempted to identify potential treatment of AD from existing drug however, 
the success of drug repositioning strategy in AD remains uncertain. This article 
briefly discusses the importance and effectiveness of drug repositioning 
strategies, the major obstacles in the development of drugs for AD, approaches 
to address these challenges, and the role of machine learning in identifying 
early markers of AD for improved management.

Copyright © 2025 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2025.03.064
PMID: 40164279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


34. Brain Res Bull. 2025 May;224:111321. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111321.
 Epub 2025 Mar 29.

New insight into the role of altered brain cholesterol metabolism in the 
pathogenesis of AD: A unifying cholesterol hypothesis and new therapeutic 
approach for AD.

Yang X(1), Yao K(2), Zhang M(2), Zhang W(2), Zu H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Jinshan Hospital affiliated to Fudan University, 
Shanghai 201508, China; Department of Neurology, Shanghai Xuhui Central 
Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 200237, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Jinshan Hospital affiliated to Fudan University, 
Shanghai 201508, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Jinshan Hospital affiliated to Fudan University, 
Shanghai 201508, China. Electronic address: hbzyy666@163.com.

The dysregulation of cholesterol metabolism homeostasis has been universally 
suggested in the aeotiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Initially, studies 
indicate that alteration of serum cholesterol level might contribute to AD. 
However, because blood-brain barrier impedes entry of plasma cholesterol, brain 
cells are not directly influenced by plasma cholesterol. Furthermore, mounting 
evidences suggest a link between alteration of brain cholesterol metabolism and 
AD. Interestingly, Amyloid-β proteins (Aβ) can markedly inhibit cellular 
cholesterol biosynthesis and lower cellular cholesterol content in cultured 
cells. And Aβ overproduction/overload induces a significant decrease of brain 
cellular cholesterol content in familial AD (FAD) animals. Importantly, 
mutations or polymorphisms of genes related to brain cholesterol transportation, 
such as ApoE4, ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporters, low-density lipoprotein 
receptor (LDLR) family and Niemann-Pick C disease 1 or 2 (NPC1/2), obviously 
lead to decreased brain cholesterol transport, resulting in brain cellular 
cholesterol loss, which could be tightly associated with AD pathological 
impairments. Additionally, accumulating data show that there are reduction of 
brain cholesterol biosynthesis and/or disorder of brain cholesterol trafficking 
in a variety of sporadic AD (SAD) animals and patients. Collectively, compelling 
evidences indicate that FAD and SAD could share one common and overlapping 
neurochemical mechanism: brain neuronal/cellular cholesterol deficiency. 
Therefore, accumulated evidences strongly support a novel hypothesis that 
deficiency of brain cholesterol contributes to the onset and progression of AD. 
This review highlights the pivotal role of brain cholesterol deficiency in the 
pathogenesis of AD. The hypothesis offers valuable insights for the future 
development of AD treatment.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2025.111321
PMID: 40164234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


35. JMIR Form Res. 2025 Mar 31;9:e67545. doi: 10.2196/67545.

Videoconference-Delivered Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Family 
Caregivers of People With Dementia: Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial.

Han A(1), Oster R(2), Yuen H(1), Jenkins J(3), Hawkins J(1), Edwards L(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, United States.
(2)Division of Preventive Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, United States.
(3)Telehealth Private Practice, Billings, MT, United States.
(4)Arts in Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, United 
States.

BACKGROUND: Family caregivers of individuals with dementia face significant 
mental health challenges. Acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) has emerged as 
a promising intervention for improving these caregivers' mental health. While 
various delivery modes of ACT have been explored, there is a need for evidence 
on the efficacy of videoconference-delivered ACT programs for this population.
OBJECTIVE: This pilot randomized controlled trial, conducted in the United 
States, aims to assess the effects of a videoconference-delivered, 
therapist-guided ACT program on reducing depressive symptoms and improving other 
mental health outcomes among family caregivers with depression who give care to 
individuals with dementia, compared to a control group that received 
psychoeducation materials only.
METHODS: This 2-arm, parallel-group pilot randomized controlled trial randomly 
assigned 33 family caregivers to either a 10-week videoconference-delivered ACT 
program (n=16, 48%) or a control group that received psychoeducation materials 
alone (n=17, 52%). Depressive symptoms (primary outcome) were measured using the 
Patient Health Questionnaire-9. Secondary outcomes included anxiety, stress, 
psychological quality of life (QoL), caregiver burden, predeath grief, guilt, 
and ACT process measures. Outcomes were assessed in the pretest, posttest (10-12 
weeks after pretest), and a 3-month follow-up (3 months after posttest, 
approximately 5-6 months after pretest). An intent-to-treat approach was used 
for all outcome analyses. Linear mixed-effects models for repeated measures were 
used to analyze outcomes.
RESULTS: The ACT group reported significantly greater improvements in stress 
(P=.043) and psychological QoL (P=.014) in the posttest compared to the control 
group. Within the ACT group, participants experienced a significant decrease in 
depressive symptoms, with a mean (SE) change of -6.09 (1.16) points (95% CI 
-8.42 to -3.76; P<.001) in the posttest and -6.71 (1.45) points (95% CI -9.63 to 
-3.81; P<.001) in the 3-month follow-up. These changes exceed the estimated 
minimal clinically important difference on the Patient Health Questionnaire-9. 
In addition, the ACT group reported significant improvements in anxiety, stress, 
psychological QoL, caregiver burden, predeath grief, guilt, values-driven 
action, and experiential avoidance at both posttest and 3-month follow-up. A 
sensitivity analysis, excluding 1 participant with near-outlier data, revealed 
statistically significant between-group differences in depressive symptoms at 
posttest (P=.037); stress at posttest (P<.001) and in 3-month follow-up 
(P=.001); psychological QoL at posttest (P<.001); caregiver burden at posttest 
(P=.003) and in 3-month follow-up (P=.003); predeath grief in 3-month follow-up 
(P=.031); and values-driven action at posttest (P=.032).
CONCLUSIONS: The videoconference-delivered ACT program showed promise in 
improving mental health outcomes and ACT processes among family caregivers with 
depression who give care to individuals with dementia. Future studies should aim 
to replicate these findings with larger, more diverse caregiver populations and 
explore the long-term efficacy of videoconference-delivered ACT programs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT05043441; 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05043441.

©Areum Han, Robert Oster, Hon Yuen, Jeremy Jenkins, Jessica Hawkins, Lauren 
Edwards. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research 
(https://formative.jmir.org), 31.03.2025.

DOI: 10.2196/67545
PMCID: PMC11997529
PMID: 40163859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


36. Neurology. 2025 Apr 22;104(8):e213377. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213377.
Epub  2025 Mar 31.

Grief and Economic Stressors by Sex, Gender, and Education: Associations With 
Alzheimer Disease-Related Outcomes.

Palpatzis E(1)(2)(3), Akinci M(1)(2)(3), Garcia-Prat M(3), Blennow K(4)(5), 
Zetterberg H(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Quijano-Rubio C(10), Kollmorgen G(11), Wild 
N(11), Gispert JD(3)(12)(13), Suárez-Calvet M(3)(12)(13)(14), Grau-Rivera 
O(3)(12)(13)(14), Fauria K(3)(12)(15), Brugulat-Serrat A(3)(12)(13)(16), 
Sanchez-Benavides G(3)(12)(13), Arenaza-Urquijo EM(1)(3); ALFA study.

Collaborators: Anastasi F, Beteta A, Cacciaglia R, Cumplido-Mayoral I, Cañas A, 
del Campo M, Deulofeu C, Dominguez R, Emilio M, Fuentes S, Genius P, 
González-Escalante A, Hernández L, Huguet J, Marne P, Menchón T, Minguillon C, 
Ortiz P, Pelkmans W, Polo A, Pradas S, Rodríguez-Fernéndez B, Sadeghi I, Shekari 
M, Soteras A, Stankeviciute L, Vilanova M, Vilor-Tejedor N.

Author information:
(1)Barcelona Institute for Global Health (ISGlobal), Spain.
(2)University of Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Spain.
(3)Barcelonabeta Brain Research Center, Spain.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, University of Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Sweden.
(6)UK Dementia Research Institute, University College London, United Kingdom.
(7)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, University College London, United 
Kingdom.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, China.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, Madison.
(10)Roche Diagnostics International Ltd., Switzerland.
(11)Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Germany.
(12)Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute, Spain.
(13)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Fragilidad y Envejecimiento 
Saludable (CIBERFES), Spain.
(14)Servei de Neurologia, Hospital del Mar, Spain.
(15)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Bioingeniería, Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III, Spain; and.
(16)Global Brain Health Institute, University of California, San Francisco.

Erratum in
    Neurology. 2025 Aug 26;105(4):e214053. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000214053.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The prevalence and impact of stressful life events 
(SLEs) on age-related and Alzheimer disease (AD)-related pathways may depend on 
social determinants including gender and education. We investigated whether 
specific SLEs are associated with AD pathology and neurodegeneration and how 
these associations differ by gender and education.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study included cognitively unimpaired 
participants, most with a family history of sporadic AD, from the ALzheimer's 
and FAmilies (ALFA) cohort, based in Barcelona, Spain. Participants had 
available assessments on occurrence and type of lifetime SLEs and lumbar 
puncture and/or structural MRI. We performed multiple regression analyses to 
examine the associations of specific SLE type with (1) AD pathologies (CSF 
phosphorylated tau 181 [p-tau181] and β-amyloid [Aβ] 42/40) and (2) 
neurodegeneration markers (CSF neurogranin and GM volumes voxel-wise) including 
interaction and stratification analyses by gender (women/men) and education.
RESULTS: In total, 1,290 cognitively unimpaired participants (mean age = 59.4 
years, range: 48-77 years, 99% White participants, 61% women) were included (393 
with lumbar puncture and 1,234 with spectroscopic MRI assessments). Less 
educated participants and women reported more grief-related and economic-related 
SLEs. Furthermore, women reported more abuse and reproductive SLEs. 
Grief-related SLEs were associated with AD and neurodegeneration CSF outcomes 
while economic SLEs were associated with MRI-based GM outcomes, both in an 
age-independent manner. Specifically, partner's death was associated with lower 
Aβ42/40 (B = -5.19; 95% CI -9.61 to -0.76; p = 0.022) and higher p-tau181 (B = 
0.18; 95% CI 0.05-0.32; p = 0.007) and neurogranin (B = 0.19; 95% CI 0.05-0.32; 
p = 0.007). The associations with Aβ42/40 were driven by less educated 
participants and men and associations with p-tau181 and neurogranin driven by 
women. Unemployment and economic loss were associated with lower GM volumes in 
limbic and frontal areas, driven by more educated participants and men and by 
women, respectively.
DISCUSSION: Older adults at risk of cognitive decline with less education and 
women may be more susceptible to experience more SLEs. Men who have experienced 
widowhood and unemployment and women who have experienced financial difficulties 
may benefit from interventions.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000213377
PMCID: PMC11961074
PMID: 40163795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: E. Palpatzis, M. Akinci, and M. Garcia-Prat 
report no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. K. Blennow has served as a 
consultant and on advisory boards for Acumen, ALZPath, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, 
Julius Clinical, Lilly, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and 
Siemens Healthineers; has served on data monitoring committees for Julius 
Clinical and Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials and 
participated in educational programs for Biogen, Eisai, and Roche Diagnostics; 
and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which 
is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work presented in 
this paper. H. Zetterberg has served on scientific advisory boards and/or as a 
consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Annexon, Apellis, 
Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, 
Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens 
Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, and Roche; and is 
a cofounder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part 
of the GU Ventures Incubator Program (outside submitted work). C. Quijano-Rubio 
is a full-time employee of Roche Diagnostics International Ltd., Rotkreuz, 
Switzerland. G. Kollmorgen and N. Wild are full-time employees of Roche 
Diagnostics GmbH, Penzberg, Germany. J.D. Gispert has received research support 
from GE Healthcare, Roche Diagnostics, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche; has received 
speaker fees from Biogen and Philips; and has received consultant fees from 
Roche Diagnostics. M. Suárez-Calvet has given lectures in symposia sponsored by 
Almirall, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche Diagnostics, S.L.U., and Roche Farma, 
S.A.; has served as a consultant and on advisory boards for Roche Diagnostics 
International Ltd. and Grifols S.L; was granted with a project funded by Roche 
Diagnostics International Ltd.; and received in-kind support for research (to 
the institution) from ADx NeuroSciences, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals Inc., Eli 
Lilly, Janssen Research & Development, and Roche Diagnostics International Ltd. 
All payments were made to the institution. O. Grau-Rivera has received research 
support from F. Hoffmann-La Roche and speaker fees from Roche Diagnostics. K. 
Fauria, A. Brugulat-Serrat, G. Sánchez Benavides, and E.M. Arenaza-Urquijo 
report no biomedical financial interests or potential conflicts of interest. Go 
to Neurology.org/N for full disclosures.


37. PLoS Med. 2025 Mar 31;22(3):e1004568. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1004568. 
eCollection 2025 Mar.

Efficacy and safety of passive immunotherapies targeting amyloid beta in 
Alzheimer's disease: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Tonegawa-Kuji R(1)(2), Hou Y(1)(2), Hu B(3)(4), Lorincz-Comi N(1)(2), Pieper 
AA(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Tousi B(10), Leverenz JB(10), Cheng F(1)(2)(4)(11).

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Genome Center, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America.
(2)Genomic Medicine Institute, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America.
(3)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Lerner Research Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America.
(4)Department of Molecular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of 
Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of 
America.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, 
United States of America.
(6)Brain Health Medicines Center, Harrington Discovery Institute, University 
Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America.
(7)Geriatric Psychiatry, GRECC, Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center, 
Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America.
(8)Institute for Transformative Molecular Medicine, School of Medicine, Case 
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America.
(9)Department of Neurosciences, Case Western Reserve University, School of 
Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America.
(10)Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, Neurological Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America.
(11)Case Comprehensive Cancer Center, Case Western Reserve University School of 
Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: While recently U.S. FDA-approved anti-amyloid beta (anti-Aβ) 
monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) offer new treatment approaches for patients 
suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD), these medications also carry potential 
safety concerns and uncertainty about their efficacy for improving cognitive 
function. This study presents an updated meta-analysis of cognitive outcomes and 
side effects of anti-Aβ mAbs from phase III randomized controlled trials (RCTs) 
in patients with sporadic AD.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Phase III randomized, placebo-controlled blinded 
trials evaluating the efficacy and safety of anti-Aβ mAbs in patients with AD 
were identified through a search in clinicaltrials.gov, PubMed and Embase on 
January 14th, 2024. The retrieved studies were further screened from January 
15th, 2024, to February 14th, 2024. We included studies that had been published 
in any language. Quality of trials was assessed using the Jadad score and 
publication bias was assessed using Egger's test and Funnel plot. Primary 
outcomes were mean changes from baseline to post-treatment in Clinical Dementia 
Rating scale-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) and AD Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale 
(ADAS-Cog) scores, and secondary outcomes were adverse events, including 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities with edema (ARIA-E), and ARIA with 
hemorrhage (ARIA-H). Random-effects meta-analysis and meta-regression analyses 
were conducted. The literature search identified 13 phase III RCTs, which 
included 18,826 patients with mild cognitive impairment or dementia due to AD. 
Compared with placebo, treatment with mAbs significantly improved cognitive 
performance on CDR-SB (mean difference -0.25, 95% confidence interval [CI] 
[-0.38, -0.11]) and ADAS-Cog (standardized mean difference -0.09, 95% CI [-0.12, 
-0.06]), in which a negative change indicates improvement for both scores. 
Meta-regression analysis suggested that trials enrolling patients with 
early-stage AD were associated with better efficacy. Elevated risk of ARIA-E 
(risk ratio [RR] 9.79, 95% CI [5.32,18.01]), ARIA-H (RR 1.94, 95% CI 
[1.47,2.57]), and headaches (RR 1.21, 95% CI [1.10,1.32]) were noted. 
Statistical heterogeneity was relatively high for ARIA-E and ARIA-H, leading to 
wide confidence intervals and considerable variability in effect sizes, though 
meta-regression was conducted to address this. Furthermore, differences in trial 
designs introduce limitations in cross-trial comparisons.
CONCLUSIONS: Anti-Aβ mAb therapy slows cognitive decline, but with small effect 
sizes, and raises potential concerns about ARIA and headaches.

Copyright: © 2025 Tonegawa-Kuji et al. This is an open access article 
distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which 
permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided 
the original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1004568
PMCID: PMC12002640
PMID: 40163534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal's policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: J.B.L has received 
consulting fees from consulting fees from Vaxxinity, grant support from GE 
Healthcare, in kind support from Amprion, and serves on a Data Safety Monitoring 
Board for Eisai. B.T, has received consulting fee from Eisai, Biogen, Novo 
Nordisk and Lilly. The other authors have no competing interests.


38. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 Sep;398(9):11357-11386. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-025-04014-0. Epub 2025 Mar 31.

Mitochondrial-based therapies for neurodegenerative diseases: a review of the 
current literature.

Wadan AS(1), Shaaban AH(2), El-Sadek MZ(2), Mostafa SA(3), Moshref AS(4), 
El-Hussein A(2)(5), Ellakwa DE(6)(7), Mehanny SS(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Biology, Faculty of Dentistry, Galala University, Galala 
Plateau, Attaka, Suez Governorate, 15888, Egypt. Alhassan.soliman.168@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Galala University, Galala Plateau, 
Attaka,, Suez Governorate, 15888, Egypt.
(3)Biotechnology Program, Faculty of Agriculture, Ain Shams University, Ain 
Shams, Egypt.
(4)Faculty of Dentistry, Galala University, Galala Plateau, Attaka, Suez 
Governorate, 15888, Egypt.
(5)Department of Laser Applications in Meteorology, Photochemistry, and 
Biotechnology, The National Institute of Laser Enhanced Science, Cairo 
University, Cairo, 11316, Egypt.
(6)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Pharmacy for 
Girls, Al-Azhar University, Cairo, Egypt.
(7)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Sinai University, Kantra 
Branch, Ismailia, Egypt.
(8)Department of Oral Biology, Faculty of Dentistry, Galala University, Galala 
Plateau, Attaka, Suez Governorate, 15888, Egypt.
(9)Department of Oral Biology, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University, Cairo, 
Egypt.

Neurodegenerative disorders present significant challenges to modern medicine 
because of their complex etiology, pathogenesis, and progressive nature, which 
complicate practical treatment approaches. Mitochondrial dysfunction is an 
important contributor to the pathophysiology of various neurodegenerative 
illnesses, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This review paper examines the current 
literature highlighting the multifaceted functions of mitochondria, including 
energy production, calcium signaling, apoptosis regulation, mitochondrial 
biogenesis, mitochondrial dynamics, axonal transport, endoplasmic 
reticulum-mitochondrial interactions, mitophagy, mitochondrial proteostasis, and 
their crucial involvement in neuronal health. The literature emphasizes the 
increasing recognition of mitochondrial dysfunction as a critical factor in the 
progression of neurodegenerative disorders, marking a shift from traditional 
symptom management to innovative mitochondrial-based therapies. By discussing 
mitochondrial mechanisms, including mitochondrial quality control (MQC) 
processes and the impact of oxidative stress, this review highlights the need 
for novel therapeutic strategies to restore mitochondrial function, protect 
neuronal connections and integrity, and slow disease progression. This 
comprehensive review aims to provide insights into potential interventions that 
could transform the treatment landscape for neurodegenerative diseases, 
addressing symptoms and underlying pathophysiological changes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-025-04014-0
PMCID: PMC12449425
PMID: 40163151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Institutional Review Board 
statement: None. Informed consent: None. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Clinical trial number: Not applicable.


39. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2025 Mar 31;20(1):29. doi:
10.1007/s11481-025-10192-8.

IL-17 A Exacerbated Neuroinflammatory and Neurodegenerative Biomarkers in 
Intranasal Amyloid-Beta Model of Alzheimer's Disease.

Gautam AS(1), Pandey SK(1), Balki S(1), Panda ES(1), Singh RK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Transit campus, Bijnour-sisendi 
Road, Sarojini Nagar, Raebareli, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, 226002, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Transit campus, Bijnour-sisendi 
Road, Sarojini Nagar, Raebareli, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, 226002, India. 
rakesh.singh@niperraebareli.edu.in.

Proinflammatory cytokines, especially interleukin-17 A (IL-17 A) have been found 
to be significantly associated with AD patients. IL-17 A amplifies 
neuroinflammation during AD pathology. This study highlighted the ability of 
IL-17 A to exacerbate amyloid-beta-induced pathology in animals. The AD 
pathology was induced with repeated intranasal administration of Aβ along with 
recombinant mouse IL-17 A (rmIL-17) at 1, 2 and 4 µg/kg for seven alternate 
days. Although, the combination of rmIL-17 and Aβ did not have severe effects on 
memory of the animals, but it drastically increased the IL-17 A mediated 
signaling, level of proinflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress and reduced 
antioxidants in the hippocampus and cortex regions of the animal brains. 
Interestingly, combining rmIL-17 with Aβ also triggered the expression of AD 
structural markers like pTau, amyloid-beta and BACE1 in the brain regions. 
Furthermore, rmIL-17 with Aβ exposure stimulated astrocytes and microglia 
leading to activation of proinflammatory signaling in the brain of the animals. 
These results showed the propensity of IL-17 A to promote severity of AD 
pathology and suggest IL-17 A as potent therapeutic target to control AD 
progression.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-025-10192-8
PMID: 40163129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


40. JMIR Aging. 2025 Mar 31;8:e65178. doi: 10.2196/65178.

Unsupervised Deep Learning of Electronic Health Records to Characterize 
Heterogeneity Across Alzheimer Disease and Related Dementias: Cross-Sectional 
Study.

West M(#)(1), Cheng Y(#)(1), He Y(#)(1), Leng Y(1), Magdamo C(1), Hyman BT(1), 
Dickson JR(1), Serrano-Pozo A(1), Blacker D(1), Das S(1).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Cambridge, MA, United States.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer disease and related dementias (ADRD) exhibit prominent 
heterogeneity. Identifying clinically meaningful ADRD subtypes is essential for 
tailoring treatments to specific patient phenotypes.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to use unsupervised learning techniques on electronic health 
records (EHRs) from memory clinic patients to identify ADRD subtypes.
METHODS: We used pretrained embeddings of non-ADRD diagnosis codes 
(International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision) and large language 
model (LLM)-derived embeddings of clinical notes from patient EHRs. Hierarchical 
clustering of these embeddings was used to identify ADRD subtypes. Clusters were 
characterized regarding their demographic and clinical features.
RESULTS: We analyzed a cohort of 3454 patients with ADRD from a memory clinic at 
Massachusetts General Hospital, each with a specialist diagnosis. Clustering 
pretrained embeddings of the non-ADRD diagnosis codes in patient EHRs revealed 
the following 3 patient subtypes: one with skin conditions, another with 
psychiatric disorders and an earlier age of onset, and a third with diabetes 
complications. Similarly, using LLM-derived embeddings of clinical notes, we 
identified 3 subtypes of patients as follows: one with psychiatric 
manifestations and higher prevalence of female participants (prevalence ratio: 
1.59), another with cardiovascular and motor problems and higher prevalence of 
male participants (prevalence ratio: 1.75), and a third one with geriatric 
health disorders. Notably, we observed significant overlap between clusters from 
both data modalities (χ24=89.4; P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: By integrating International Classification of Diseases, Ninth 
Revision codes and LLM-derived embeddings, our analysis delineated 2 distinct 
ADRD subtypes with sex-specific comorbid and clinical presentations, offering 
insights for potential precision medicine approaches.

©Matthew West, You Cheng, Yingnan He, Yu Leng, Colin Magdamo, Bradley T Hyman, 
John R Dickson, Alberto Serrano-Pozo, Deborah Blacker, Sudeshna Das. Originally 
published in JMIR Aging (https://aging.jmir.org), 31.03.2025.

DOI: 10.2196/65178
PMCID: PMC11997524
PMID: 40163031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: JRD served on a 
scientific review board for I-Mab Biopharma. All other authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


41. Bioinformation. 2024 Nov 30;20(11):1529-1531. doi: 10.6026/9732063002001529. 
eCollection 2024.

Integrating MICRORNA941 and T cell subset research into public health strategies 
for managing inflammaging in elderly and immune-compromised patients.

Fotovat L(1), Wang K(1), Chiappelli F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Dental Group of Sherman Oaks, Sherman Oaks, CA - 91403, USA.
(2)UCLA Center for the Health Sciences, Los Angeles, CA - 90095, USA.

As of 2022, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that 
the average life expectancy for both sexes in the United States is 77.5 years. 
While new advances in health have increased life expectancy, aging comes with 
complications that impact the development of diseases like cancer, senile 
dementia (non-Alzheimer), diabetes and Parkinson's. Through aging, the body's 
immune system declines, a process recognized as immunosenescence and which 
contributes to inflammaging, a state of chronic, though non-productive, 
inflammation that progresses with advancing age in the absence of overt 
infection and that contributes to the onset and progression of a spectrum of 
age-related pathologies. MicroRNAs are small forms of RNA that control gene 
expression by binding to messenger RNA (mRNA) in the cell cytoplasm. In 
particular, microRNA-941 (miR-941) has been found to play a critical role in the 
regulation of differentiation of cell populations, certain T cell subsets 
responsible for maintaining efficient immune surveillance in normal subjects, 
immune compromised individuals as well as the elderly. We propose that concerted 
research designed to define and characterize interventions targeting the 
regulatory effects of miRNA-941 specifically on T-cell subsets will benefit 
treatment of infectious (e.g., CoViD-19, H5N1 infection) and chronic illnesses 
(e.g., diabetes II, diabetes III, Long Covid [i.e., Post-Acute Covid-19 
Syndrome, PACS], autoimmune disease), which are most common among the aging and 
the immune compromised population. It is possible and even probable that active 
research in this specific area will proffer new horizons for finding cures, aid 
in disease management and improved accessibility and affordability of public 
health services.

© 2024 Biomedical Informatics.

DOI: 10.6026/9732063002001529
PMCID: PMC11953547
PMID: 40162470


42. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 13:2025.03.10.25323519. doi: 
10.1101/2025.03.10.25323519.

A Quantitative Trait Locus for Reduced Microglial APOE Expression Associates 
with Reduced Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy.

Belloy ME(1)(2)(3), Graff-Radford J(4), Greicius MD(3).

Author information:
(1)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St.Louis, MO, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St.Louis, 
MO, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(4)Departments of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

The Apolipoprotein E (APOE) e4 and e2 alleles are respectively the most risk 
increasing and risk decreasing, common genetic risk factors for Alzheimer's 
disease (AD)1,2. They strongly affect Aβ burden in the brain parenchyma1, a core 
hallmark of AD, but also at the level of the brain vasculature, i.e. cerebral 
amyloid angiopathy (CAA)1,3, which in turn relates to increased risk for 
amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) in APOE*4 carriers when receiving 
anti-Aβ antibody treatments4. This makes APOE a highly pursued AD drug target. A 
crucial question in the field is whether it would be beneficial to either 
increase or decrease APOE (particularly APOE*4) levels5. The answer from rodent 
work appears to converge on "decreasing APOE levels"5-7, with initial human 
studies supporting this5,8,9. Human genetic evidence however remains scarce and 
new insights are crucially needed to support clinical translation. Shade et al. 
2024 conducted the largest to date genome-wide association study (GWAS) of 
various neuropathological traits, identifying a variant protective of CAA in the 
APOE locus independent of APOE*4 and APOE*2 genotypes10. Downstream analyses 
suggested this signal links to the nearby APOC2 gene through local effects on 
methylation. We applaud the authors on their timely, relevant, and 
well-conducted study. Here, we extend on these findings, highlighting there is 
compelling evidence that their genetic signal for reduced CAA relates to an 
effect on reduced microglial APOE expression, which would importantly support 
the evidence in favor of "decreasing APOE levels" and further herald this 
promising therapeutic avenue, not just for AD, but also for CAA. We additionally 
provide complimentary results regarding this locus' association with CAA and AD 
risk from analyses that we conducted parallel to Shade et al. 2024.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.03.10.25323519
PMCID: PMC11952609
PMID: 40162256

Conflict of interest statement: Competing/Conflicting interests The authors 
declare no competing or conflicting interests.


43. RSC Med Chem. 2025 Feb 21. doi: 10.1039/d4md00861h. Online ahead of print.

Design and synthesis of 2-phenyl-1H-benzo[d]imidazole derivatives as 17β-HSD10 
inhibitors for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Liu X(1), Zhou B(1), Chen Y(2), Lin J(3), Shao C(2), Chen L(1), Ruan B(1), Zhang 
X(1), Qian Y(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Biology, Food and Environment, Hefei University Hefei 230601 P. R. 
China ruanbf@hfuu.edu.cn zhangxx@hfuu.edu.cn.
(2)Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan University Wuxi 214000 P. R. China.
(3)Jiangsu Collaborative Innovation Center of Biomedical Functional Materials, 
School of Chemistry and Materials Science Nanjing Normal University Nanjing 
210023 P. R. China yongqian@njnu.edu.cn.

It has been reported that 17β-HSD10 plays a key role in Alzheimer's disease. 
Here, a total of 44 2-phenyl-1H-benzo[d]imidazole derivatives were designed and 
synthesized as novel 17β-HSD10 inhibitors based on rational design and SAR 
studies. Among them, compound 33 (N-(4-(1,4,6-trimethyl-1H-benzo[d] 
imidazol-2-yl)phenyl)cyclohexanecarboxamide) showed high inhibitory efficacy 
(17β-HSD10 IC50 = 1.65 ± 0.55 μM) and low toxicity (HepaRG IC50 >100 μM). The 
Morris water maze experiment revealed that compound 33 could alleviate cognitive 
impairment induced by scopolamine in mice. This study facilitates the further 
development of more potent 17β-HSD10 inhibitors for the treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d4md00861h
PMCID: PMC11947984
PMID: 40162198

Conflict of interest statement: The authors confirm that this article content 
has no conflict of interest.


44. Bioimpacts. 2024 Dec 29;15:24196. doi: 10.34172/bi.24196. eCollection 2025.

Anti-Alzheimer effects of the newly synthesized cationic compounds as 
multi-target dual hAChE/hBuChE inhibitor: An in silico, in vitro, and in vivo 
approach.

Karami H(1), Soltani S(2), Wolber G(3), Sadigh-Eteghad S(4), Nikbakht R(5), 
Farrokhi H(5), Narimani F(2), Teimuri-Mofrad R(5), Rashidi MR(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Higher Education Institute of Rab-Rashid, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Pharmacy Faculty, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Molecular Design Group, Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Institute of 
Pharmacy, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.
(4)Neurosciences Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(5)Department of Organic and Biochemistry, Faculty of Chemistry, University of 
Tabriz, 51666-16471, Tabriz, Iran.
(6)Nanotechnology Research Center and Pharmacy Faculty, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: Multi-target anti-Alzheimer's disease (AD) compounds are promising 
leads for the development of AD modifying agents. Ionic compounds containing 
quaternary ammonium moiety were synthesized, and their multi-targeted anti-AD 
effects were examined.
METHODS: Imidazole derivatives containing a quaternary ammonium moiety were 
synthesized and evaluated for their potential anti-Alzheimer properties using 
computational (in silico), cellular (in vitro), and animal (in vivo) models. The 
inhibition kinetics of both human acetylcholinesterase (hAChE) and 
butyrylcholinesterase (hBuChE) were assessed. Neuroprotective effects in 
amyloid-beta (Aβ)-exposed PC12 cells were also examined. Furthermore, the 
compounds' impact on Aβ-induced memory impairment in Wistar rats was evaluated, 
with a detailed analysis of the underlying mechanisms.
RESULTS: Compound 5g demonstrated acceptable cytotoxicity against human cells. 
This compound exhibited non-competitive dual inhibition of both hAChE and 
hBuChE. Additionally, compound 5g mitigated the morphological changes induced by 
amyloid-beta (Aβ) in PC12 cells and decreased cell mortality. It exhibited 
anti-oxidative stress properties, evident by reduction in reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) production, and inhibition of lipid peroxidation. The compound 
also down regulated the expression of pro-inflammatory genes IL-1β and TNF-α. In 
vitro studies validated compound 5g's ability to inhibit lactate dehydrogenase 
(LDH), attenuate neuroinflammation, and prevent the autophagy-apoptosis cascade. 
When administered to rats with Aβ-induced memory dysfunction, compound 5g 
enhanced cognitive function and improved spatial memory. In the hippocampi of 
treated rats, there was a noted downregulation of TNF-α and NF-kB. Furthermore, 
compound 5g counteracted the elevated activity of AChE. Molecular modeling 
validated the binding of compound 5g to both steric and catalytic sites of 
cholinesterase enzymes.
CONCLUSION: The novel quaternary ammonium derivative, compound 5g, demonstrated 
multi-target anti-AD properties, as evidenced by in silico, in vitro and in vivo 
studies. Behavioral assessments and molecular analyses further confirmed its 
therapeutic efficacy in amyloid-beta (Aβ)-challenged rats.

© 2025 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.34172/bi.24196
PMCID: PMC11954736
PMID: 40161933

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


45. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 14:2025.03.12.642808. doi: 
10.1101/2025.03.12.642808.

Amyloid-β-regulated gene circuits for programmable Alzheimer's disease therapy.

Spetz MR(1), Kim H(2), Chavarria D(2), Conger DJ(1), Shattuck-Brandt R(1), 
Shekharan SR(1), Shostak A(3), Ligocki AP(2), Brien HJ(1), Embalabala RJ(3)(4), 
Mobley BC(5), Schrag MS(3)(4)(6), Lippmann ES(1)(2)(3)(4)(6)(7), Brunger JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, TN.
(3)Vanderbilt Brain Institute, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN.
(4)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN.
(5)Department of Pathology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN.
(6)Vanderbilt Memory and Alzheimer's Center, Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center, Nashville, TN.
(7)Interdisciplinary Materials Science Program, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, TN.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized in part by 
the accumulation of the protein amyloid-β (Aβ). Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) 
that target Aβ for clearance from the brain have received FDA approval; however, 
these therapies are accompanied by serious side effects, and their cognitive 
benefit for patients remains of tremendous debate. Here, we present a potential 
engineered cell therapy for AD in which we enlist cells of the central nervous 
system as programmable agents for sculpting the neurodegenerative niche toward 
one that mitigates glial reactivity and neuronal loss. We constructed a suite of 
Aβ-sensitive synthetic Notch (synNotch) receptors from clinically tested anti-Aβ 
mAbs and show that cells expressing these receptors can recognize synthetic Aβ42 
and Aβ40 with differential sensitivity. We express these receptors in 
astrocytes, cells native to the brain that are known to become dysfunctional in 
AD. These synNotch astrocytes, which upregulate selected transgenes upon 
exposure to synthetic and human brain-derived amyloid, were engineered to 
express potential therapeutic transgenes in response to Aβ, including 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor and antagonists of the cytokines tumor 
necrosis factor and interleukin-1. SynNotch astrocytes that express such 
antagonists in response to Aβ partially attenuate a cytokine-induced reactive 
astrocyte phenotype and promote barrier properties in brain microvascular 
endothelial cells. Additionally, engineered Aβ-synNotch cells potently 
upregulate transgene expression in response to Aβ deposited in the 5xFAD mouse 
brain, demonstrating the capacity to recognize Aβ in situ. Overall, our work 
supports Aβ-synNotch receptors as promising tools to generate a cell-based 
therapy for AD with targeted functionalities to positively influence the AD 
niche.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.03.12.642808
PMCID: PMC11952467
PMID: 40161792

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures JMB, MRS, and ESL have disclosed 
intellectual property pertaining to this manuscript.


46. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2025 Mar 11:2025.03.02.641040. doi: 
10.1101/2025.03.02.641040.

Magnetically Labeled iPSC-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Enable MRI/MPI-Guided 
Regenerative Therapy for Myocardial Infarction.

Wang W(1)(2), Han Z(1)(2)(3), Aafreen S(1)(4), Zivko C(5)(6), Gololobova O(7), 
Wei Z(1)(2), Cotin G(8), Felder-Flesc D(8), Mahairaki V(5)(6), Witwer KW(7), 
Bulte JWM(1)(2)(4)(9)(10), Weiss RG(2)(11), Liu G(1)(2)(10).

Author information:
(1)F.M. Kirby Research Center, Kennedy Krieger Institute, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Division 
of MR Research, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Central Oklahoma, Edmond, 
OK, USA.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)Department of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(6)The Richman Family Precision Medicine Center of Excellence in Alzheimer's 
Disease, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(7)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(8)SUPERBRANCHE SAS, Strasbourg, France.
(9)Department of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering, Johns Hopkins University 
Whiting School of Engineering, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(10)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(11)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MS, USA.

Stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) offer a promising cell-free 
approach for cardiovascular regenerative medicine. In this study, we developed 
magnetically labeled induced pluripotent stem cell-derived EVs 
(magneto-iPSC-EVs) encapsulated with superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO) 
nanoparticles for image-guided regenerative treatment of myocardial infarction, 
in which EVs that can be detected by both magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 
magnetic particle imaging (MPI). iPSC-EVs were isolated, characterized per 
MISEV2023 guidelines, and loaded with SuperSPIO20 nanoparticles using optimized 
electroporation conditions (300 V, 2 × 10 ms pulses), achieving a high loading 
efficiency of 1.77 ng Fe/106 EVs. In vitro results show that magneto-iPSC-EVs 
can be sensitively detected by MPI and MRI, with a detectability of 
approximately 107 EVs. In a mouse myocardial ischemia-reperfusion model, 
intramyocardially injected magneto-iPSC-EVs (2 × 109) were imaged non-invasively 
by in vivo MPI for 7 days and ex vivo MRI, with the presence of magneto-iPSC-EVs 
confirmed by Prussian blue staining. Therapeutically, both native and magneto- 
iPSC-EVs significantly improved cardiac function, with a 37.3% increase in left 
ventricular ejection fraction and 61.0% reduction in scar size. This study 
highlights the potential of magneto-iPSC-EVs as a cell-free approach for 
cardiovascular regenerative medicine, offering both non-invasive imaging 
capabilities and therapeutic benefits for myocardial repair.

DOI: 10.1101/2025.03.02.641040
PMCID: PMC11952340
PMID: 40161706

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest statement D. F-F and G.C. 
are employees and shareholders of SuperBranche. J.W.M.B. is a paid scientific 
advisory board member and shareholder of SuperBranche. The latter arrangement is 
approved by Johns Hopkins University in accordance with its conflict-of-interest 
policies.


47. HRB Open Res. 2025 Sep 29;8:11. doi: 10.12688/hrbopenres.14064.3. eCollection
 2025.

Economic evaluations  of strategies targeting pre-diagnosis dementia 
 populations: Protocol for a systematic review.

Hoang MT(1)(2)(3), Zenker A(2)(4), Saha S(4), Gerdtham UG(4)(5), Trepel 
D(1)(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Trinity College Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, 
Leinster, Ireland.
(2)School of Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Leinster, Ireland.
(3)Faculty of Business Administration, Van Lang University, Ho Chi Minh City, 
Vietnam.
(4)Health Economics Unit, Department of Clinical Science (Malmö), Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(5)Department of Economics, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(6)Global Brain Health Institute, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.

INTRODUCTION: Dementia remains incurable, and treatment trials are typically 
conducted after the symptoms manifest, potentially too late in the disease 
process to alter its course. Thus, it is essential to identify and implement 
cost-effective strategies targeting individuals who have not yet been formally 
diagnosed with dementia. This review aims to scrutinise emerging evidence and 
present a comprehensive summary of cost-effectiveness estimates of all 
strategies targeting the pre-diagnosis dementia populations.
METHOD AND ANALYSIS: A systematic search will be conducted across six electronic 
databases. All articles will be assessed against pre-defined eligibility 
criteria through title and abstract screening, and full-text screening phases. 
Data from the included articles will be extracted using a standardized template. 
A newly established framework based on the CHEERS 2022 checklist will be applied 
to assess the reporting quality of the included articles. The entire review 
process, from screening to data extraction and quality assessment, will be a 
dual process conducted by two reviewers. Disagreements will be resolved by a 
third senior reviewer. The extracted data will be synthesised and presented in 
tables and figures.
CONCLUSION: This systematic review will present evidence of cost-effectiveness, 
along with the strengths and limitations of the existing literature. These 
findings aim to identify existing gaps, thereby informing and guiding the design 
of future studies in this domain.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Since this is a systematic review protocol, ethical 
approval is not required. The results will be published in a peer-reviewed 
journal, with both raw and summarised data shared through the journal or other 
open platforms.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO - CRD42024521521.

Copyright: © 2025 Hoang MT et al.

DOI: 10.12688/hrbopenres.14064.3
PMCID: PMC11950719
PMID: 40160510

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.


48. J Cent Nerv Syst Dis. 2025 Mar 27;17:11795735251328029. doi: 
10.1177/11795735251328029. eCollection 2025.

Unleashing the potential: 40 Hz multisensory stimulation therapy for cognitive 
impairment.

Chen X(1), Lv Z(1), Xie G(1), Zhao C(1), Zhou Y(1), Fu F(1), Li J(1), Zhang 
X(1), Qi F(1), Xu Y(1), Chen Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Affiliated Lihuili Hospital of Ningbo 
University, Ningbo, Zhejiang, China.
(2)The Third Clinical Medical College, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, China.

Cognitive impairment encompasses a spectrum of disorders marked by acquired 
deficits in cognitive function, potentially leading to diminished daily 
functioning and work capacity, often accompanied by psychiatric and behavioral 
disturbances. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Post-stroke cognitive impairment 
(PSCI) are significant causes of cognitive decline. With the global population 
getting older, AD and PSCI are becoming major health concerns, underscoring the 
critical necessity for successful treatment options. In recent years, various 
non-invasive biophysical stimulation techniques, including ultrasound, light, 
electric, and magnetic stimulation, have been developed for the treatment of 
central nervous system diseases. Preliminary clinical studies have demonstrated 
the feasibility and safety of these techniques. This review discuss the impact 
of 40 Hz multisensory stimulation on cerebral function, behavioral outcomes, and 
disease progression in both animal models and individuals exhibiting cognitive 
deficits, such as AD and PSCI. Furthermore, it summarizes the potential neural 
pathways involved in this therapeutic modality by synthesizing evidence from a 
variety of studies within the field. Subsequently, it evaluates the existing 
constraints of this technique and underscores the potential advantages of 40 Hz 
multisensory stimulation therapy for individuals with cognitive deficits, with 
the goal of enhancing the management and care of AD and PSCI.

Plain Language Summary: As the world’s population ages, Alzheimer’s disease and 
post-stroke cognitive impairment are growing health issues, highlighting the 
need for effective treatments. This study explores the impact of a 40 Hz 
multisensory stimulation treatment on brain function, behavior, and disease 
progression in animal models and individuals with cognitive deficits like AD and 
PSCI.

© The Author(s) 2025.

DOI: 10.1177/11795735251328029
PMCID: PMC11952037
PMID: 40160278

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


49. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2025 Jun;79(6):336-343. doi: 10.1111/pcn.13812.
Epub  2025 Mar 31.

Structural and metabolic topological alterations associated with butylphthalide 
treatment in mild cognitive impairment: Data from a randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trial.

Han X(1), Gong S(2), Gong J(3), Wang P(1), Li R(2), Chen R(2), Xu C(1), Sun 
W(1), Li S(3), Chen Y(1), Yang Y(2), Luan H(1), Wen B(1), Guo J(3), Lv S(1), Wei 
C(1).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Clinical Research Center 
for Geriatric Diseases, Beijing, China.
(2)School of Biological Science and Medical Engineering, Beihang University, 
Beijing, China.
(3)College of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Changchun 
University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, China.

AIMS: Effective intervention for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is key for 
preventing dementia. As a neuroprotective agent, butylphthalide has the 
potential to treat MCI due to Alzheimer disease (AD). However, the 
pharmacological mechanism of butylphthalide from the brain network perspective 
is not clear. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the multimodal brain network 
changes associated with butylphthalide treatment in MCI due to AD.
METHODS: A total of 270 patients with MCI due to AD received either 
butylphthalide or placebo at a ratio of 1:1 for 1 year. Effective treatment was 
defined as a decrease in the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive 
Subscale (ADAS-cog) > 2.5. Brain networks were constructed using T1-magnetic 
resonance imaging and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography. A support 
vector machine was applied to develop predictive models.
RESULTS: Both treatment (drug vs. placebo)-time interactions and efficacy 
(effective vs. ineffective)-time interactions were detected on some overlapping 
structural network metrics. Simple effects analyses revealed a significantly 
increased global efficiency in the structural network under both treatment and 
effective treatment of butylphthalide. Among the overlapping metrics, an 
increased degree centrality of left paracentral lobule was significantly related 
to poorer cognitive improvement. The predictive model based on baseline 
multimodal network metrics exhibited high accuracy (88.93%) of predicting 
butylphthalide's efficacy.
CONCLUSION: Butylphthalide may restore abnormal organization in structural 
networks of patients with MCI due to AD, and baseline network metrics could be 
predictive markers for therapeutic efficacy of butylphthalide.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study was registered in the Chinese Clinical 
Trial Registry (Registration Number: ChiCTR1800018362, Registration Date: 
2018-09-13).

© 2025 The Author(s). Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2025 Japanese 
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/pcn.13812
PMID: 40159989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. J Med Chem. 2025 Apr 10;68(7):7082-7105. doi: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.4c02291.
Epub  2025 Mar 31.

Rational Design of the First Dual Agonist at Trace Amine-Associated Receptor 1 
and 5-HT(2C) Receptors Based on Binding Pocket Similarity for the Treatment of 
Schizophrenia and Alzheimer's Disease-Related Psychosis.

Lu J(1)(2), Yu P(2)(3), Wang Y(1)(2), Dai Y(2), Wang W(1)(2), Liu C(2), Dong 
L(2), Lei H(2), Yang Y(1)(2), Wang L(1)(2), Zou F(1)(2), Deng X(1), Wang B(2), 
Wei S(2), Ma M(1)(2), Wang H(1)(2), Ye L(2)(4), Zhang J(1)(2), Tian J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Key Laboratory of Molecular Pharmacology and Drug 
Evaluation (Yantai University), Ministry of Education, Collaborative Innovation 
Center of Advanced Drug Delivery System and Biotech Drugs in Universities of 
Shandong, Yantai University, Yantai 264005, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Drug Delivery and Release Systems, Shandong 
Luye Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Yantai 264003, China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai 256603, China.
(4)School of Public Health, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai 256603, China.

The clinical-stage agonists for trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1) show 
insufficient clinical efficacy, requiring the design of new compounds beyond the 
TAAR1 receptor alone. Here, we provide evidence for the feasibility of designing 
TAAR1/5-HT2CR dual agonists based on structural basis of these two targets and 
similarities of their agonists. Three series of novel agonists were discovered, 
leading to a potent compound named 21b. 21b exhibits submicromolar potency on 
both TAAR1 and 5-HT2CR targets with high specificity confirmed by site-directed 
mutagenesis. Preclinical proof-of-concept studies showed that 21b was highly 
efficacious against the positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia in mice 
models. 21b also alleviated cognitive deficits and psychoactive symptoms in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) model mice. Four week repeated dosing of 21b is 
exceptionally well tolerated in rats and beagle dogs without hyperglycemia 
commonly seen with antipsychotics. Thus, the favorable druggability of compound 
21b warrants further clinical development for the treatment of schizophrenia and 
AD-related psychosis.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.4c02291
PMID: 40159850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Aging (Albany NY). 2025 Mar 29;17(3):822-850. doi: 10.18632/aging.206227.
Epub  2025 Mar 29.

Differential senolytic inhibition of normal versus Aβ-associated 
cholinesterases: implications in aging and Alzheimer's disease.

Darvesh S(1)(2), Cash MK(1), Forrestall K(1), Maillet H(1), Sands D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Neuroscience, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova 
Scotia B3H 4R2, Canada.
(2)Department of Medicine (Geriatric Medicine and Neurology), Dalhousie 
University, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H 2E1 Canada.

Cellular senescence is a hallmark of aging and the age-related condition, 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). How senescence contributes to cholinergic and 
neuropathologic changes in AD remains uncertain. Furthermore, little is known 
about the relationship between senescence and cholinesterases (ChEs). 
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) are important in 
neurotransmission, cell cycle regulation, and AD amyloid-β (Aβ) pathology. 
Senolytic agents have shown therapeutic promise in AD models. Therefore, we 
evaluated in vitro and in silico activity of senolytics, dasatinib (1), 
nintedanib (2), fisetin (3), quercetin (4), GW2580 (5), and nootropic, 
meclofenoxate hydrochloride (6), toward AChE and BChE. As ChEs associated with 
AD pathology have altered biochemical properties, we also evaluated agents 1-6 
in AD brain tissues. Enzyme kinetics showed agents 1, 3, 4, and 6 inhibited both 
ChEs, while 2 and 5 inhibited only AChE. Histochemistry showed inhibition of Aβ 
plaque-associated ChEs (1 and 2: both ChEs; 5: BChE; 6: AChE), but not normal 
neural-associated ChEs. Modeling studies showed 1-6 interacted with the same 
five binding locations of both ChEs, some of which may be allosteric sites. 
These agents may exert their beneficial effects, in part, by inhibiting ChEs 
associated with AD pathology and provide new avenues for development of 
next-generation inhibitors targeting pathology-associated ChEs.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.206227
PMCID: PMC11984419
PMID: 40159237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: Sultan Darvesh is a 
scientific co-founder and stockholder in the Treventis Corporation, a biotech 
company focused on the development of diagnostic and therapeutic agents for 
Alzheimer’s disease. Sultan Darvesh is listed as an inventor on patents assigned 
to Treventis Corporation. Also, Sultan Darvesh is an Associate Editor of Current 
Alzheimer Research. All other authors do not have financial disclosures or 
conflicts of interest to declare.


52. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Aug;12(7):100131. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100131.  Epub 2025 Mar 29.

Fingolimod ameliorates amyloid deposition and neurodegeneration in APP/PS1 mouse 
model of Alzheimer's disease.

Wang MT(1), Hu ZC(2), Xiang Y(3), Zeng XQ(1), Fei ZC(1), Chen J(1), Li XP(1), 
Zhu YP(1), Wang J(1), Wang YJ(4), Xu ZQ(5), Liu YH(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Centre for Clinical Neuroscience, Daping 
Hospital, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, PR China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, PR China.
(3)Institute of Neurology, Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, School of 
Medicine, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, PR 
China.
(4)Department of Neurology and Centre for Clinical Neuroscience, Daping 
Hospital, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, PR China; Key Laboratory 
of Aging and Brain Disease, Chongqing, PR China.
(5)Department of Neurology and Centre for Clinical Neuroscience, Daping 
Hospital, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, PR China. Electronic 
address: xzq881@163.com.
(6)Department of Neurology and Centre for Clinical Neuroscience, Daping 
Hospital, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, PR China; Key Laboratory 
of Aging and Brain Disease, Chongqing, PR China. Electronic address: 
yuhuiliu@tmmu.edu.cn.

INTRODUCTION: The immune system plays a critical role in regulating amyloid-beta 
(Aβ) metabolism in Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Both T and B lymphocytes are 
involved in the pathogenesis of AD. The sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor 
modulator fingolimod used in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, can promote 
lymphocyte homing, potentially reducing the infiltration of peripheral 
lymphocytes into the brain.
METHODS: In this study, 8-month-old APP/PS1 mice were orally administered 
fingolimod at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day or saline as a control for 2 months. After 
treatment, the mice were subjected to behavioral tests, pathological 
examinations, and biochemical analyses to evaluate behavioral deficits and 
AD-type pathologies.
RESULTS: Fingolimod inhibits the infiltration of peripheral lymphocytes into the 
brain and reduces neuroinflammation. Fingolimod enhances cognitive function and 
alleviates brain Aβ deposition. Additionally, fingolimod treatment mitigates 
other AD-related pathologies, including Tau hyperphosphorylation, 
neuroinflammation, and neurodegeneration. Proteomic analysis further confirms 
the therapeutic effects of fingolimod in AD, reflected by the downregulation of 
proteins involved in multiple AD-associated pathways.
DISCUSSION: This study illustrates that fingolimod effectively ameliorates 
multiple pathological features of AD, highlighting its potential as a promising 
therapeutic candidate for the disease.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100131
PMCID: PMC12321628
PMID: 40158900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Yu-Hui Liu reports financial 
support was provided by National Natural Science Foundation of China. If there 
are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.


53. Chem Biol Interact. 2025 May 25;413:111497. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111497.
Epub  2025 Mar 28.

Cholinesterase-based inhibitors as multitarget small molecules for the therapy 
of Alzheimer's disease.

Marco-Contelles JL(1), Oset-Gasque MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry, Institute of General Organic Chemistry 
(CSIC), C/ Juan de La Cierva, 3, 28006, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
iqoc21@iqog.csic.es.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Complutense University of Madrid, Plaza Ramón y Cajal S/n, Ciudad Universitaria, 
28040, Madrid, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Hospital Clínico 
San Carlos, 28040, Madrid, Spain; Instituto Universitario de Investigación en 
Neuroquímica, Complutense University of Madrid, Ciudad Universitaria, 28040, 
Madrid, Spain.

Herein, we have summarized the most significant results that we have 
communicated from our laboratories in the last thirty years, highlighting the 
most potent and attractive ChEIs based hit(lead)-Multitarget Small Molecules, 
such as (S)-p-methoxytacripyrine (1), ASS234 (2), Contilisant (3), and 
Contilistat (4), that we have identified in the search for new chemical entities 
for the therapy of Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2025.111497
PMID: 40158868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interests


54. Mitochondrion. 2025 Jul;83:102036. doi: 10.1016/j.mito.2025.102036. Epub 2025
 Mar 28.

Therapeutic potential of DDQ in enhancing mitochondrial health and cognitive 
function in Late-Onset Alzheimer's disease.

Kshirsagar S(1), Alvir RV(2), Pradeepkiran JA(2), Reddy AP(3), Reddy PH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA. Electronic address: 
sudhir.kshirsagar@ttuhsc.edu.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA.
(3)Department of Nutrition, Human Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX, 
USA.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA; Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, 
Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA; Department 
of Neurology, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, 
USA; Department of Public Health, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Texas 
Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA; Department of 
Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA. Electronic address: 
hemachandra.reddy@ttuhsc.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
cognitive decline, mitochondrial dysfunction, and neuroinflammation. This study 
evaluates the therapeutic potential of DDQ, a small molecule in the humanized 
Abeta knockin (hAbKI) mice that represents late-onset AD. Our findings 
demonstrate that DDQ treatment significantly improves cognitive performance as 
assessed through behavioral tests, including the rotarod, open field, Y-maze, 
and Morris water maze, compared to untreated hAbKI mice. At the molecular level, 
DDQ promoted mitochondrial biogenesis, as evidenced by enhanced expression of 
key proteins like PGC1α, NRF1, and TFAM. Additionally, DDQ treatment facilitated 
mitophagy, as indicated by elevated levels of PINK1 and Parkin, and reduced 
neuroinflammation, reflected by decreased Iba1 and GFAP levels. Transmission 
electron microscopy analysis revealed a marked improvement in mitochondrial 
morphology, with increased mitochondrial length and reduced mitochondrial 
numbers in DDQ-treated mice. Furthermore, DDQ treatment led to an increase in 
mitophagic vacuoles, suggesting that it effectively removes dysfunctional 
mitochondria. Taken together, for the first time, our study results support the 
potential of DDQ as a promising neuroprotective agent for late-onset AD, 
addressing mitochondrial dysfunction, neuroinflammation, and cognitive decline. 
Our study focused on developing small molecules that modulate mitophagy, 
mitochondrial dynamics and neuroinflammatory pathways for aging, AD and other 
neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. and Mitochondria Research Society. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mito.2025.102036
PMID: 40158867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


55. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2025 Aug;252:114655. doi: 
10.1016/j.colsurfb.2025.114655. Epub 2025 Mar 25.

Cerium-doped carbon dots as dual-target agents against Alzheimer's β-amyloid 
fibrillogenesis and reactive oxygen species.

Wang W(1), Liu Z(1), Cheng H(2), Xu M(1), Du Z(3), Liu W(4), Zhang C(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Taiyuan University of 
Technology, Taiyuan 030024, China.
(2)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Taiyuan University of 
Technology, Taiyuan 030024, China; College of Artificial Intelligence, Taiyuan 
University of Technology, Taiyuan 030024, China.
(3)College of Artificial Intelligence, Taiyuan University of Technology, Taiyuan 
030024, China.
(4)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Radiation Medicine and Molecular Nuclear Medicine, 
Institute of Radiation Medicine, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking 
Union Medical College, Tianjin 300192, China.
(5)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Taiyuan University of 
Technology, Taiyuan 030024, China. Electronic address: 
zhangchaofeng@tyut.edu.cn.

Both fibrillogenesis of amyloid β-protein (Aβ) and elevated levels of reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Beyond Aβ aggregation inhibition, the complexity necessitates the development of 
comprehensive therapeutic interventions for halting AD progression. Herein, a 
dual-target agent capable of Aβ aggregation inhibition and ROS scavenging was 
synthesized by doping cerium into carbon dots (Ce CDs). Ce CDs with a high Ce 
(III)/Ce (IV) ratio of 0.67 can scavenge various ROS, including superoxide anion 
radicals, hydroxyl radicals, hydrogen peroxide, and Aβ40-induced ROS, thus 
mitigating cellular oxidative damage and rescuing cell viability. Additionally, 
Ce CDs present potent inhibition on Aβ40 on-pathway fibrillization, disrupting 
the formation of highly ordered β-sheet structures and increasing cell viability 
from 50.2 % to 91.9 %. It is validated that the electrostatic interactions 
between Ce CDs and Aβ40 are primarily responsible for preventing the 
conformational transition of Aβ40 monomers. In vivo experiments with the 
transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans strain further validate the bifunctionality of 
Ce CDs in suppression of Aβ fibrillogenesis and attenuation of oxidative stress, 
thereby demonstrating the potential of combination therapy for AD. This finding 
highlights the important role of electrostatic interactions between Aβ and 
inhibitors in regulating Aβ aggregation, and provides new insights into the 
development of multifunctional agents for AD treatment.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2025.114655
PMID: 40158246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


56. Lancet. 2025 Mar 29;405(10484):1093-1118. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)00184-9.

Neuroprotective mechanisms of exercise and the importance of fitness for healthy 
brain ageing.

Tari AR(1), Walker TL(2), Huuha AM(1), Sando SB(3), Wisloff U(4).

Author information:
(1)The Cardiac Exercise Research Group at the Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Department of Circulation and Medical Imaging, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Neurology and Clinical 
Neurophysiology, St Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(2)Clem Jones Centre for Ageing Dementia Research, Queensland Brain Institute, 
The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(3)Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, 
Norway; Department of Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, St Olavs 
University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(4)The Cardiac Exercise Research Group at the Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Department of Circulation and Medical Imaging, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway. Electronic address: 
ulrik.wisloff@ntnu.no.

Ageing is a scientifically fascinating and complex biological occurrence 
characterised by morphological and functional changes due to accumulated 
molecular and cellular damage impairing tissue and organ function. Ageing is 
often accompanied by cognitive decline but is also the biggest known risk factor 
for Alzheimer's disease, the most common form of dementia. Emerging evidence 
suggests that sedentary and unhealthy lifestyles accelerate brain ageing, while 
regular physical activity, high cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF), or a 
combination of both, can mitigate cognitive impairment and reduce dementia risk. 
The purpose of this Review is to explore the neuroprotective mechanisms of 
endurance exercise and highlight the importance of CRF in promoting healthy 
brain ageing. Key findings show how CRF mediates the neuroprotective effects of 
exercise via mechanisms such as improved cerebral blood flow, reduced 
inflammation, and enhanced neuroplasticity. We summarise evidence supporting the 
integration of endurance exercise that enhances CRF into public health 
initiatives as a preventive measure against age-related cognitive decline. 
Additionally, we address important challenges such as lack of long-term studies 
with harmonised study designs across preclinical and clinical settings, 
employing carefully controlled and repeatable exercise protocols, and outline 
directions for future research.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and 
data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)00184-9
PMID: 40157803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.


57. Mitochondrion. 2025 Jul;83:102038. doi: 10.1016/j.mito.2025.102038. Epub 2025
 Mar 27.

Beneficial effects of mitophagy enhancers on amyloid beta-induced mitochondrial 
and synaptic toxicities in Alzheimer's disease.

Kshirsagar S(1), Reddy AP(2), Reddy PH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA. Electronic address: 
Sudhir.kshirsagar@ttuhsc.edu.
(2)Department of Nutrition, Human Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX, 
USA.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA; Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, 
Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA; Department 
of Neurology, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, 
USA; Department of Public Health, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Texas 
Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA; Department of 
Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA. Electronic address: 
Hemachandra.reddy@ttuhsc.edu.

The purpose of our study is to investigate the beneficial effects of mitophagy 
enhancers against mutant amyloid precursor protein (APP) and amyloid beta (Aβ) 
induced mitochondrial and synaptic toxicities in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Research spanning over two decades highlights the critical role of mitochondrial 
dysfunction and synaptic damage in the pathogenesis of both early-onset and 
late-onset AD. Emerging evidence suggests impaired clearance of damaged 
mitochondria is an early pathological event in AD, positioning mitophagy 
enhancers as potential therapeutic candidates. This study determined the optimal 
doses of four mitophagy enhancers-Urolithin A (UA), actinonin, tomatidine, and 
nicotinamide riboside (NR)-using immortalized mouse hippocampal (HT22) neurons. 
HT22 cells were transfected with mutant APP (mAPP) cDNA and treated with the 
enhancers. The effects were assessed by evaluating mRNA and protein expression 
levels of genes involved in mitochondrial dynamics, biogenesis, mitophagy, and 
synaptic function, alongside cell survival and mitochondrial respiration. 
Mitochondrial morphology was also examined in treated and untreated mAPP-HT22 
cells. Results showed that mAPP-HT22 cells exhibited increased mitochondrial 
fission, reduced fusion, downregulated synaptic and mitophagy-related genes, 
diminished cell survival, impaired mitochondrial respiration, and excessively 
fragmented, shortened mitochondria. Treatment with mitophagy enhancers reversed 
these deficits, restoring mitochondrial and synaptic health. Enhanced cell 
survival, upregulation of mitochondrial fusion, synaptic, and mitophagy genes, 
improved mitochondrial structure, and reduced fragmentation were observed. 
Notably, UA demonstrated the most robust mitigating effects. These findings 
underscore the therapeutic potential of mitophagy enhancers, particularly UA, as 
promising candidates to treat mitochondrial and synaptic dysfunctions in AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. and Mitochondria Research Society. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mito.2025.102038
PMID: 40157622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


58. Biotechnol Adv. 2025 Sep;82:108568. doi: 10.1016/j.biotechadv.2025.108568.
Epub  2025 Mar 27.

Application of curcuminoids in inflammatory, neurodegenerative and aging 
conditions - Pharmacological potential and bioengineering approaches to improve 
efficiency.

Lagoa R(1), Rajan L(2), Violante C(3), Babiaka SB(4), Marques-da-Silva D(5), 
Kapoor B(6), Reis F(7), Atanasov AG(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Technology and Management, Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, Morro 
do Lena-Alto do Vieiro, 2411-901 Leiria, Portugal; Laboratory of Separation and 
Reaction Engineering-Laboratory of Catalysis and Materials LSRE-LCM, Associate 
Laboratory in Chemical Engineering ALiCE, University of Porto, Rua Dr. Roberto 
Frias, 4200-465 Porto, Portugal; Applied Molecular Biosciences Unit UCIBIO, 
Institute for Health and Bioeconomy i4HB, NOVA University of Lisbon, 2829-516 
Caparica, Portugal. Electronic address: ricardo.lagoa@ipleiria.pt.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, SRM College of Pharmacy, SRM Institute of 
Science and Technology, Kattankulathur 603203, Tamil Nadu, India. Electronic 
address: logeshr@srmist.edu.in.
(3)School of Technology and Management, Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, Morro 
do Lena-Alto do Vieiro, 2411-901 Leiria, Portugal.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Buea, P.O. Box 63, 
Buea, Cameroon; Department of Microbial Bioactive Compounds, Interfaculty 
Institute for Microbiology and Infection Medicine, University of Tübingen, 72076 
Tübingen, Germany. Electronic address: babiaka.smith@ubuea.cm.
(5)School of Technology and Management, Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, Morro 
do Lena-Alto do Vieiro, 2411-901 Leiria, Portugal; Laboratory of Separation and 
Reaction Engineering-Laboratory of Catalysis and Materials LSRE-LCM, Associate 
Laboratory in Chemical Engineering ALiCE, University of Porto, Rua Dr. Roberto 
Frias, 4200-465 Porto, Portugal. Electronic address: dorinda.silva@ipleiria.pt.
(6)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
Punjab 144411, India.
(7)Institute of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics & Coimbra Institute 
for Clinical and Biomedical Research iCBR, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Coimbra, 3004-504 Coimbra, Portugal; Center for Innovative Biomedicine and 
Biotechnology CIBB, University of Coimbra, 3000-548 Coimbra, Portugal; Clinical 
Academic Center of Coimbra, 3004-531 Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic address: 
freis@fmed.uc.pt.
(8)Institute of Genetics and Animal Biotechnology of the Polish Academy of 
Sciences, 05-552 Magdalenka, Poland; Laboratory of Natural Products and 
Medicinal Chemistry LNPMC, Center for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical 
College and Hospital, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences 
SIMATS, Thandalam, Chennai, India; Ludwig Boltzmann Institute Digital Health and 
Patient Safety, Medical University of Vienna, Spitalgasse 23, 1090 Vienna, 
Austria. Electronic address: atanas.atanasov@lbg.ac.at.

Curcumin, a natural compound found in turmeric, has shown promise in treating 
brain-related diseases and conditions associated with aging. Curcumin has shown 
multiple anti-inflammatory and brain-protective effects, but its clinical use is 
limited by challenges like poor absorption, specificity and delivery to the 
right tissues. A range of contemporary approaches at the intersection with 
bioengineering and systems biology are being explored to address these 
challenges. Data from preclinical and human studies highlight various 
neuroprotective actions of curcumin, including the inhibition of 
neuroinflammation, modulation of critical cellular signaling pathways, promotion 
of neurogenesis, and regulation of dopamine levels. However, curcumin's 
multifaceted effects - such as its impact on microRNAs and senescence markers - 
suggest novel therapeutic targets in neurodegeneration. Tetrahydrocurcumin, a 
primary metabolite of curcumin, also shows potential due to its presence in 
circulation and its anti-inflammatory properties, although further research is 
needed to elucidate its neuroprotective mechanisms. Recent advancements in 
delivery systems, particularly brain-targeting nanocarriers like polymersomes, 
micelles, and liposomes, have shown promise in enhancing curcumin's 
bioavailability and therapeutic efficacy in animal models. Furthermore, the 
exploration of drug-laden scaffolds and dermal delivery may extend the 
pharmacological applications of curcumin. Studies reviewed here indicate that 
engineered dermal formulations and devices could serve as viable alternatives 
for neuroprotective treatments and to manage skin or musculoskeletal 
inflammation. This work highlights the need for carefully designed, long-term 
studies to better understand how curcumin and its bioactive metabolites work, 
their safety, and their effectiveness.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biotechadv.2025.108568
PMID: 40157560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Ricardo Lagoa reports financial 
support was provided by Foundation for Science and Technology. Dorinda 
Marques-da-Silva reports financial support was provided by Foundation for 
Science and Technology. Flávio Reis reports financial support was provided 
by Foundation for Science and Technology and European Union's Horizon Europe 
program. The other authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.


59. Circulation. 2025 Jun 10;151(23):1639-1650. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.125.074545. Epub 2025 Mar 29.

Oral Semaglutide and Cardiovascular Outcomes in People With Type 2 Diabetes, 
According to SGLT2i Use: Prespecified Analyses of the SOUL Randomized Trial.

Marx N(1), Deanfield JE(2), Mann JFE(3)(4), Arechavaleta R(5), Bain SC(6), Bajaj 
HS(7), Bayer Tanggaard K(8), Birkenfeld AL(9)(10), Buse JB(11), Davicevic-Elez 
Z(8), Desouza C(12), Emerson SS(13), Engelmann MDM(8), Hovingh GK(8), Inzucchi 
SE(14), Jhund PS(15), Mulvagh SL(16), Pop-Busui R(17), Poulter NR(18), Rasmussen 
S(8), Tu ST(19), McGuire DK(20); SOUL Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische 
Hochschule Aachen University, University Hospital Aachen, Germany (N.M.).
(2)Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, University College London, United 
Kingdom (J.E.D.).
(3)Kuratorium für Heimdialyse Kidney Center, Munich, Germany (J.F.E.M.).
(4)Friedrich Alexander University of Erlangen, Germany (J.F.E.M.).
(5)Department of Endocrinology, Universidad Autonoma de Guadalajara, Jalisco, 
Mexico (R.A.).
(6)School of Medicine, Swansea University, United Kingdom (S.C.B.).
(7)LMC Diabetes and Endocrinology, Brampton, Canada (H.S.B.).
(8)Novo Nordisk A/S, Søborg, Denmark (K.B.-T., Z.D.-E., M.D.M.E., G.K.H., S.R.).
(9)Department of Diabetology, Endocrinology and Nephrology, University Hospital 
Tübingen, Germany (A.L.B.).
(10)Institute for Diabetes Research and Metabolic Diseases, Helmholtz Munich, 
German Center for Diabetes Research (A.L.B.).
(11)University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill (J.B.B.).
(12)Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolism, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha (C.D.).
(13)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle (S.S.E.).
(14)Section of Endocrinology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
(S.E.I.).
(15)British Heart Foundation, Cardiovascular Research Centre, School of 
Cardiovascular and Metabolic Health, University of Glasgow, United Kingdom 
(P.S.J.).
(16)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Dalhousie University, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada (S.L.M.).
(17)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Clinical Nutrition, Department of 
Medicine, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland (R.P.-B.).
(18)Imperial Clinical Trials Unit, Imperial College London, United Kingdom 
(N.R.P.).
(19)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Changhua Christian Hospital, Taiwan (S.-T.T.).
(20)Clinic for Cardiology, Angiology, and Intensive Care Medicine, University of 
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, and Parkland Health and Hospital System, 
Dallas (D.K.M.).

BACKGROUND: Both GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide-1) receptor agonists and SGLT2 
(sodium-glucose cotransporter-2) inhibitors (SGLT2i) improve cardiovascular 
outcomes in people with type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular or chronic kidney 
disease. However, there are limited data about the effect of combining these 
agents on cardiovascular and safety outcomes.
METHODS: The SOUL trial (Semaglutide Cardiovascular Outcomes Trial; NCT03914326) 
randomized 9650 participants with type 2 diabetes and atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease and/or chronic kidney disease to oral semaglutide or 
placebo. As prespecified, participants were analyzed according to baseline use 
of SGLT2i (yes, n=2596; no, n=7054), and subsequently for any use of SGLT2i 
during the trial (yes, n=4718; no, n=4932). The primary outcome was time to 
first major adverse cardiovascular event, defined as cardiovascular death, 
nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke. Safety was evaluated by 
comparing the incidence of serious adverse events.
RESULTS: Over a mean follow-up of 47.5±10.9 months, the risk of the primary 
outcome in the overall trial population was 14% lower for oral semaglutide 
versus placebo (hazard ratio, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.77-0.96). In those taking SGLT2i 
at baseline, there were 143 of 1296 (semaglutide) versus 158 of 1300 (placebo) 
primary outcome events (hazard ratio, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.71-1.11); and 436 of 3529 
versus 510 of 3525, respectively, in participants not taking SGLT2i at baseline 
(hazard ratio, 0.84; 95% CI, 0.74-0.95; P-interaction, 0.66). An analysis of 
major adverse cardiovascular events by any in-trial SGLT2i use versus no use 
also showed no evidence of heterogeneity in the effects of oral semaglutide. The 
adverse event profiles of oral semaglutide with or without concomitant SGLT2i 
were similar.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral semaglutide reduced major adverse cardiovascular event 
outcomes independently of concomitant SGLT2i treatment, and this combination 
appeared to be safe.
REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov; Unique identifier: 
NCT03914326.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.125.074545
PMCID: PMC12144549
PMID: 40156843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr Marx is supported by the Deutsche 
Forschungsgemeinschaft (German Research Foundation; TRR 219; project ID, 
322900939 [M03, M05]); has given lectures for Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Sanofi-Aventis, MSD, BMS, AstraZeneca, Lilly, and Novo Nordisk; has received 
unrestricted research grants from Boehringer Ingelheim; and has served as an 
advisor for Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Sanofi-Aventis, MSD, BMS, AstraZeneca, 
and Novo Nordisk. In addition, Dr Marx served in trial leadership for Boehringer 
Ingelheim and Novo Nordisk. Dr Marx declines all personal compensation from 
pharma or device companies. Dr Deanfield reports grants or contracts from 2022 
to 2025 from Alzheimer’s Research UK and from 2019 to 2022 from the British 
Heart Foundation. He received consulting fees/honoraria from Amgen, AstraZeneca, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Merck, Pfizer, Aegerion, Novartis, Sanofi, Takeda, Novo 
Nordisk, and Bayer. Dr Mann reports grants from Novo Nordisk, the European 
Union, and McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; consulting fees from Novo 
Nordisk, AstraZeneca, Bayer, and Boehringer Ingelheim; and honoraria from Novo 
Nordisk, AstraZeneca, Bayer, and Novartis; and has participated on a data safety 
monitoring board or advisory board for AstraZeneca, Bayer, Sanofi, and 
Boehringer Ingelheim. He is an author for UpToDate and has a leadership role in 
the KDIGO group. Dr Arechavaleta has given lectures for Novo Nordisk, Eli Lilly, 
AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Sanofi. She has received advisory board 
fees and honoraria for clinical trials from Novo Nordisk and Eli Lilly. Dr Bain 
reports grants and honoraria from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, 
Menarini, and Novo Nordisk. He has provided expert advice to the All-Wales 
Medicines Strategy Group and the National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence (United Kingdom). Dr Bajaj reports trial fees paid to his institution 
by Abbott, Amgen, Anji Pharmaceuticals, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, 
Biomea, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, 
Kowa Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, and Pfizer. Dr Tanggaard is an 
employee at Novo Nordisk. Dr Birkenfeld is supported by the Deutsche 
Forschungsgemeinschaft (German Research Foundation; GRK2816; BI1292/12-1; 10-1; 
9-1) and the German Federal Ministry for Education and Research (01GI0925) 
through the German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD e.V.). Dr Birkenfeld has 
given lectures for Novo Nordisk and Daiichi Sankyo, has received unrestricted 
research grants from Boehringer Ingelheim and AstraZeneca, and has served as an 
advisor for Bayer and Novo Nordisk. In addition, Dr Birkenfeld served in trial 
leadership for Boehringer Ingelheim, Novo Nordisk, and Eli Lilly. Dr Birkenfeld 
declines all personal compensation from pharma or device companies. Dr Buse 
reports research support from Corcept, Dexcom, and Novo Nordisk; consulting fees 
from Altimmune, Antag, Amgen, ApStem, Aqua Medical, AstraZeneca, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, CeQur, Corcept Therapeutics, Dexcom, Eli Lilly, embecta, GentiBio, 
Glyscend, Insulet, Medtronic MiniMed, Mellitus Health, Metsera, Novo Nordisk, 
Pendulum Therapeutics, Praetego, Stability Health, Tandem, Terns Inc, Vertex, 
and Zealand; and stock options from Glyscend, Mellitus Health, Metsera, Pendulum 
Therapeutics, Praetego, and Stability Health. Dr Davicevic-Elez is an employee 
of and holds shares in Novo Nordisk. Dr Desouza reports Novo Nordisk research 
grants (payments to institution) and has personally received consulting fees 
from Eli Lilly and consulting fees and support for attending meetings or travel 
from Novo Nordisk. Dr Emerson declares consulting fees from Novo Nordisk for 
steering committee participation and from Boehringer Ingelheim for consulting 
regarding veterinary congestive heart failure; received support for attending 
meetings or travel from Novo Nordisk for attendance at steering committee and 
scientific meetings; and declares participation on an advisory board for Novo 
Nordisk, AstraZeneca, Daiichi Sankyo, Vertex, Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, Lilly, 
Novartis, Bristol Myers, and Sanofi. Dr Engelmann is a full-time employee of 
Novo Nordisk and has stocks in the company. Dr Hovingh has received funding from 
the Klinkerpadfonds, paid to his former academic institute (Amsterdam UMC, The 
Netherlands). He is also an employee and shareholder of Novo Nordisk. Dr 
Inzucchi has served as a consultant or on advisory boards for Novo Nordisk, 
AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Merck, Pfizer, and Bayer. He has given 
lectures sponsored by AstraZeneca and Boehringer Ingelheim/Lilly. He declares 
royalties from McGraw Hill and Wolters Kluwer Health and support for attending 
meetings or travel from Novo Nordisk, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim/Lilly, 
and Bayer. Dr Jhund reports speaker fees from AstraZeneca, Novartis, and 
ProAdWise Communications; advisory board fees from AstraZeneca; research funding 
from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Analog Devices Inc, and Roche 
Diagnostics. Dr Jhund reports other financial interests, including as Director 
of GCTP Ltd. His employer, the University of Glasgow, has been remunerated for 
his time working on clinical trials by AstraZeneca, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, and 
Bayer AG. Dr Mulvagh has served as a consultant or on advisory boards for Novo 
Nordisk and Merck. Dr Pop-Busui received research grant support to her 
institutions from NIDDK, Breakthrough T1D (formerly JDRF), Bayer, Lexicon 
Pharmaceuticals, and Novo Nordisk, and consulting fees from Averitas Pharma, 
Biogen, Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Nevro Inc, Novo Nordisk, and Roche Diagnostic; 
received support for attending meetings or travel from Roche; participated on an 
advisory board for Biogen/Reata; and is a member of the board of directors of 
the American Diabetes Association. Dr Poulter received financial support from 
several pharmaceutical companies that manufacture blood pressure–lowering, 
lipid-lowering, and glucose-lowering agents for consultancy fees, research 
projects, and staff and for arranging and speaking at educational meetings 
including Servier, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Sanofi, and Novo Nordisk. He 
holds no stocks or shares in any such companies. Dr Rasmussen is an employee and 
shareholder in Novo Nordisk. Dr Tu has given lectures for Novo Nordisk, Eli 
Lilly, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Sanofi; received advisory board 
fees from Novo Nordisk and Eli Lilly; and received honoraria for clinical trials 
from Novo Nordisk, Eli Lilly, and Boehringer Ingelheim. Dr McGuire has received 
consulting fees from Novo Nordisk, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Altimmune, Ventyx 
Pharmaceuticals, Bayer, Lexicon, Applied Therapeutics, Intercept 
Pharmaceuticals, Esperion, Lilly USA, Boehringer Ingelheim, New Amsterdam, CSL 
Behring, Amgen, Neurotronics, Metsera, Kailera, and Alveus Pharma.


60. Niger J Physiol Sci. 2025 Jan 14;39(1):101-109. doi: 10.54548/njps.v39i1.13.

Efficacy of Aqueous Extract of Talinum Triangulare on the Microanatomy of the 
Hippocampus and Short-Term Memory of Scopolamine Hydrobromide-Induced 
Alzheimer's Type Cognitive Dysfunction Rats.

Mba E(1), Udo-Affah GU, Bassey IF, Uruakpa KC, Paulinus SO, Oku ME, Umoh NM, 
Anani SE, Agiri AO.

Author information:
(1)University of Calabar.

The study aimed at elucidating the potency of aqueous extract of Talinum 
triangulare on the hippocampal neurons, astrocytes as well as assessing short 
term memory of scopolamine-induced Alzheimer's type rats. Fifty-four Wistar rats 
(180-200g) were used for the study; thirty experimental rats were randomly 
grouped into five, each containing six rats designated A, B, C, D and E while 
twenty-four rats were used to establish 50% lethal dose (LD50). Alzheimer's type 
cognitive dysfunction was intraperitoneally (ip) induced with scopolamine 
hydrobromide (1mg/kg, ip) for seven days in groups B-E prior to the oral 
administration of the aqueous extract (875 and 1750mg/kg) and donepezil 
(1mg/kg), followed by the novel object recognition test, histological and GFAP 
staining processes. Results revealed atrophied pyramidal cells, hyperchromatic, 
numerous glial cells with pale cytoplasmic inclusions and astrogliosis in groups 
B, C, and E while group D showed ameliorative potentials compared to group A. 
Also, short term memory was significantly higher in group D compared to groups 
B, C and E. In conclusion, aqueous extract of Talinium triangulare leaves 
reduced the potentials of scopolamine hydrobromide by restoring abnormal 
neurons, hence, enhancing cognitive memory in the rats used in the present 
study.

DOI: 10.54548/njps.v39i1.13
PMID: 40156816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Niger J Physiol Sci. 2025 Jan 14;39(1):91-100.

The Effects of Consumption of Cooked Beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) and Serotonin 
Precursor Diets on Scopolamine-Impaired Memory and Motor Co-ordination in Mice.

Uket J(1), Nyor FB, Osim EE.

Author information:
(1)UNIVERSITY OF CALABAR.

Alzheimer's disease (memory impairment disorder) and motor co-ordination 
disorders are on the increase worldwide. 5-Hydroxytryphamine (serotonin) is 
involved in short term memory and motor co-ordination (Buhot et al., 2000., 
Cabaj et al., 2017).  Whether beans that contain serotonin precursor 
(tryptophan) can ameliorate memory and motor co-ordination impairment has not 
been previously ascertained. Therefore, this research was to study the effects 
of consumption of cooked beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) and serotonin precursor 
diets on scopolamine-impaired memory and motor co-ordination in mice. Sixty mice 
were randomly assigned into 6 groups (10 mice per group) namely; Control, 
Scopolamine only, Scopolamine with 50% cooked beans diet, Scopolamine with 
serotonin precursor diet, 50% cooked beans diet only and serotonin precursor 
diet only. Preliminary studies on phytochemical analyses were done before 
learning/memory and motor co-ordination were also studied. Standard methods were 
used to study learning/memory and motor coordination. The results showed that 
preliminary phytochemical screening of cooked beans indicated the presence of 
tryptophan, flavonoids, alkaloids, and polyphenols (antioxidants). Learning was 
impaired in Scopolamine only group compared to control and other test groups 
(p<0.05). Memory was also impaired in scopolamine only group compared to all 
other experimental groups (p<0.05). Motor co-ordination was also impaired in 
scopolamine only group compared to all other groups (p<0.05). In conclusion, 
consumption of beans and serotonin precursor diets improved memory and motor 
coordination in scopolamine impaired memory and motor co-ordination in mice. The 
memory and motor co-ordination enhancement observed may be attributed to 
serotonin synthesized from tryptophan in beans.

PMID: 40156802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Niger J Physiol Sci. 2024 Dec 31;39(2):233-240. doi: 10.54548/njps.v39i2.9.

Cognitive And Neuroprotective Effects of Vernonia amygdalina in 
scopolamine-induced Memory impaired Rats.

Odu P(1), Odu VK(1), Oyebanjo OT(2), Benneth BA(3), Onasanwo SA(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Calabar, Calabar.
(2)Babcock University, Nigeria.
(3)Delta State University, Abraka, Delta State, Nigeria.
(4)University of Ibadan, Ibadan.

Cognitive impairment is largely associated with functional and structural loss 
in the brain of Alzheimer's disease (AD) models, and scopolamine has been 
successfully used to mimic these deficits in rodents. The cost and side effects 
of drugs presently used for the treatment of AD-related cognitive impairment 
have prompted research into alternative products, especially natural ones with 
high antioxidant capacity, since oxidative stress is a major pathophysiology 
associated with AD. The current study evaluated the cognitive and 
neuroprotective effects of Vernonia amygdalina (VA) on scopolamine-induced 
cognitive impairment in rats. Thirty-five male rats, randomly divided into seven 
groups (n = 5), were used. Group 1 served as the control and received distilled 
water. Groups 2 and 3 received Vernonia amygdalina, VA (50 and 100 mg/kg, 
respectively) per orally (p.o.). Group 4 received 1 mg/kg scopolamine SC (i.p.). 
Groups 5, 6, and 7 received pretreatment with either VA 50 mg/kg, VA 100 mg/kg, 
or Donepezil, DP (1 mg/kg), and then in combination with SC (1 mg/kg). The 
animals were subjected to memory tasks using the Morris water maze (MWM) and 
novel object recognition tasks (NORT) and sacrificed on day 14, after which 
their brains were isolated for biochemical and histological studies. The study 
showed that during MWM and NORT, spatial and non-spatial recognition memories, 
which were respectively impaired in the SC group compared to the control group, 
were reversed in the VA pretreatment groups. Scopolamine injection caused 
significant decreases in superoxide dismutase and catalase levels and an 
increase in malonaldehyde (MDA) levels in group 4 compared with the control 
group. Pretreatments with either VA or DP, however, caused a significant 
increase in the SOD and catalase levels and a decrease in the MDA level compared 
with the SC group. Histological studies revealed that VA was more potent in 
protecting the brain against SC-induced neurodegeneration and morphological 
alterations in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Findings of this study 
suggest that VA attenuates scopolamine-induced cognitive deficits via inhibition 
of oxidative stress and neuronal degeneration and enhancement of cognition in 
the brains of rats.

DOI: 10.54548/njps.v39i2.9
PMID: 40156795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Niger J Physiol Sci. 2024 Dec 31;39(2):223-232. doi: 10.54548/njps.v39i2.8.

Bromelain improved cognitive & mood behaviors, oxido-inflammatory indices and 
cholinergic transmission in scopolamine-induced neurotoxicity in male wistar 
rats.

Bayo-Olugbami AA(1), Ukpabio P(2), Babalola KM(3), Benson IO(4), Owoyele BV(5).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Unit, Department of Physiology, Osun State University, Osogbo.
(2)Department of Physiology, Adeleke University, Ede, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Federal University of Health Sciences, Ila-Orangun.
(4)Department of Anatomy, Osun State University, Osogbo.
(5)Neuroscience & Inflammation unit, Department of Physiology, Faculty of Basic 
Medical Sciences, University of Ilorin, 240003, Ilorin, Nigeria.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with pathophysiological and psychological 
disturbances including cognitive decline, depression, anxiety and motor 
imbalance. Conventional drugs for managing AD do not address associated 
non-neurocognitive co-morbidities, hence the need to investigate alternative 
therapies especially from plants. The neuroprotective benefits of bromelain have 
been identified, but its impacts on scopolamine-induced neurotoxicity is yet to 
be elucidated. Twenty-Five male rats were separated randomly into 5 groups: 
Control (normal saline; 1ml/kg); Scopolamine (i.p; 1mg/kg); Bromelain (50mg/kg); 
Scopolamine + Bromelain; Scopolamine + Donepezil (reference drug, 1mg/kg). 
Neurobehavioral paradigms (novel object recognition, elevated plus maze, forced 
swimming and open field tests were assessed, followed by biochemical (MDA, SOD, 
AChE, NO, Total protein & IL-1b) assay in the PFC. Data were analyzed using 
one-way ANOVA (Tukey's posthoc.). Values with p<0.05 were considered 
significant. Scopolamine reduced memory index (P<0.01) (cognitive function), 
ambulatory & rearing activities (P<0.05) (motor behavior), open arm duration 
(P<0.001) (anxiety-like behavior) & increased immobility time (P<0.05) 
(depressive-like behavior). Exposure to scopolamine also led to significant 
reduction in the prefrontal cortical levels of SOD (P<0.05) while increasing MDA 
(P<0.05), acetylcholinesterase (P<0.01) and IL-1β (P<0.05). However, levels of 
NO and total protein were not significantly altered. In contrast, intervention 
with bromelain or donepezil significantly reversed most of the behavioral and 
biochemical alterations induced by scopolamine. Bromelain compared favorably 
with donepezil in improving memory decline and other non-cognitive dysfunctions 
associated with scopolamine exposure. This could have resulted from modulation 
of oxidative stress, inflammation and cholinergic transmission. Key words: 
Bromelain; Scopolamine; Oxidative stress; Neurotoxicity; Neuro-inflammation; 
Behavior.

DOI: 10.54548/njps.v39i2.8
PMID: 40156791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Mov Disord. 2025 Jun;40(6):1200-1205. doi: 10.1002/mds.30181. Epub 2025 Mar
29.

Plasma Biomarkers and Disease Prognosis in Mild Cognitive Impairment with Lewy 
Bodies.

Donaghy PC(1), Hasoon J(1), Hamilton CA(1), Ciafone J(2), Durcan R(1), Barnett 
N(1), Olsen K(1), Lawley S(1), Greenfinch G(3), Firbank M(1), Heslegrave 
A(4)(5), Zetterberg H(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Allan L(10), O'Brien JT(11), Taylor 
JP(1), Thomas AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Translational and Clinical Research Institute and NIHR Newcastle Biomedical 
Research Centre, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, 
California, USA.
(3)Institute of Nuclear Medicine, University College London Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(4)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(5)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(7)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(10)Centre for Research in Ageing and Cognitive Health, University of Exeter, 
Exeter, UK.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, School of Clinical Medicine, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the prognostic value of plasma biomarkers in 
mild cognitive impairment with Lewy bodies (MCI-LB).
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the association of four plasma biomarkers with 
disease progression in MCI.
METHODS: Plasma amyloid-beta (Aβ)42/40, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), 
neurofilament light (NfL), and phosphorylated tau 181 (pTau181) were measured at 
baseline in a longitudinal MCI cohort (n = 131).
RESULTS: Baseline plasma NfL was associated with increased risk of 
dementia/death in the entire cohort. In MCI-LB, baseline plasma NfL, GFAP, and 
pTau181 were associated with increased risk of dementia/death and increased 
cognitive decline measured by the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination-Revised.
CONCLUSIONS: pTau181, GFAP, and NfL are associated with more rapid disease 
progression in MCI-LB and, with further validation, could be useful to support 
prognosis and stratification for clinical practice and treatment trials. Further 
work, including clinicopathological studies, is needed to understand the 
biological correlates of these markers in MCI-LB. © 2025 The Author(s). Movement 
Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International 
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.30181
PMCID: PMC12160992
PMID: 40156325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Hippocampus. 2025 May;35(3):e70012. doi: 10.1002/hipo.70012.

Effects of Early Midlife Ovarian Removal on Medial Temporal Lobe Gray Matter 
Volume and Recognition Memory.

Brown A(1), Gervais NJ(1)(2), Gravelsins L(1), Zhao S(1), Duchesne A(3)(4), 
Rieck J(5), Mouzenian A(1), Calvo N(1), Mazloum-Farzaghi N(1)(5), Olsen R(1)(5), 
Barense M(1), Shao Z(6)(7), Bernardini M(8), Jacobson M(9), Rajah MN(10), Grady 
C(1)(5)(11), Einstein G(1)(5)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences, University of Groningen, 
Groningen, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Psychology, Université du Québec à Trois-Rivières, 
Trois-Rivières, Québec, Canada.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Northern British Columbia, Prince 
George, British Columbia, Canada.
(5)Baycrest Academy for Research and Education, Baycrest Health Sciences, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Genetics Program, North York General Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(9)Department of Gynecology, Women's College Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(10)Department of Psychology, Toronto Metropolitan University, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(12)Tema Genus, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.

Early midlife bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) is associated with greater 
Alzheimer's disease risk compared to spontaneous/natural menopause. Previously, 
we found that participants with BSO had lower volume in the hippocampal dentate 
gyrus and cornu ammonis 2/3 composite subfield (DG-CA2/3). We sought to extend 
those hippocampal subfield findings by assessing whether BSO affected volumes 
along the anteroposterior hippocampal axis, anterolateral entorhinal cortex, and 
perirhinal cortex subregions (Brodmann area (BA) 35 and 36). We also correlated 
volumes with key demographic and wellbeing-related factors (age, depressive 
mood, education), hormone therapy characteristics, and recognition memory 
performance. Early midlife participants with BSO (with and without 17β-estradiol 
therapy (ET)) and age-matched control participants with intact ovaries (AMC) 
completed high-resolution T2-weighted structural magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI). Medial temporal lobe volumes and Remember-Know task recognition memory 
performance were compared between groups-BSO (n = 23), BSO + ET (n = 28), AMC 
(n = 34) using univariate analyses. Multivariate Partial Least Squares (PLS) 
analyses were used to examine how volumes related to demographic and 
wellbeing-related factors, as well as hormone therapy characteristics. Relative 
to BSO + ET, BSO had lower posterior hippocampal and DG-CA2/3 volumes but 
greater perirhinal BA 36 volumes. Compared to age, depressive mood, and 
education, ET was the strongest positive predictor of hippocampal volumes and 
negative predictor of perirhinal BA 36 volumes. For BSO + ET, hippocampal 
volumes were negatively related to ET duration and positively related to 
concurrent progestogen therapy. Relative to AMC, BSO had greater anterolateral 
entorhinal cortex and perirhinal BA 35 and BA 36 volumes. BSO groups (with and 
without ET) relied more on familiarity than recollection for successful 
recognition memory. BSO and ET may have distinct effects on medial temporal lobe 
volumes, with potential implications for memory processes affected by 
Alzheimer's disease risk.

© 2025 The Author(s). Hippocampus published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hipo.70012
PMCID: PMC11953763
PMID: 40156318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


66. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70066. doi: 10.1002/alz.70066.

Plasma protein risk scores for mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease 
in the Framingham heart study.

Rehman H(1), Ang TFA(2)(3), Tao Q(4), Au R(1)(2)(3)(5)(6)(7), Farrer 
LA(1)(3)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Qiu WQ(4)(7)(10), Zhang X(1)(6)(9); Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine (Biomedical Genetics), Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Departments of Anatomy & Neurobiology, Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Departments of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Departments of Pharmacology & Experimental Therapeutics, Boston University 
Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Departments of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Framingham Heart Study, Boston University School of Medicine, Framingham, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Boston University School of Medicine, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(8)Departments of Ophthalmology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School 
of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(9)Departments of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(10)Departments of Psychiatry, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

INTRODUCTION: It is unclear whether aggregated plasma protein risk scores 
(PPRSs) could be useful in predicting the risks of mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: The Cox proportional hazard model with the Least Absolute Shrinkage and 
Selection Operator penalty was used to build the PPRSs for MCI and AD in 1515 
Framingham Heart Study Generation 2 with 1128 proteins measured in plasma at 
exam 5 (cognitively normal [CN] = 1258, MCI = 129, AD = 128).
RESULTS: MCI PPRS had a hazard ratio (HR) of 6.97 [5.34, 9.12], with a 
discriminating power (C-index = 82.52%). AD PPRS had a HR of 5.74 [4.67, 7.05] 
(C-index = 88.15%). Both PPRSs were also significantly associated with cognitive 
changes, brain atrophy, and plasma AD biomarkers. Proteins in the MCI and AD 
PPRSs were involved in several pathways related to leukocyte, chemotaxis, 
immunity, inflammation, and cellular migration.
DISCUSSION: This study suggests that PPRSs serve well to predict the risk of 
developing MCI and AD as well as cognitive changes and AD-related pathogenesis 
in the brain.
HIGHLIGHTS: PPRSs were developed for the risk of AD and AD preclinical stage, 
MCI. PPRSs were developed for MCI and AD associated with cognitive changes, loss 
of brain volume, and increasing level of plasma AD biomarkers. Leukocyte, 
chemotaxis, immunity, inflammation, and cellular migration enriched in proteins 
were identified as being involved in MCI and AD PPRSs.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70066
PMCID: PMC11953566
PMID: 40156298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Rhoda Au is a scientific advisor to Signant Health and NovoNordisk. Author 
disclosures areavailable in the Supporting Information.


67. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70038. doi: 10.1002/alz.70038.

Diagnostic accuracy of plasma p-tau217/Aβ42 for Alzheimer's disease in clinical 
and community cohorts.

Wang J(1)(2), Huang S(1)(2), Lan G(3), Lai YJ(1)(2), Wang QH(1)(2), Chen 
Y(1)(2), Xiao ZS(4), Chen X(5), Bu XL(1)(2), Liu YH(1)(2), Zeng F(1)(2), Zhang 
L(3), Li A(3), Cai Y(3), Sun P(3), He Z(3), Doré V(6)(7), Fripp J(6), Bourgeat 
P(6), Chen Q(8), Yu JT(9), Tang Y(10), Zetterberg H(11)(12)(13)(14)(15)(16), 
Masters CL(17), Guo T(3), Wang YJ(1)(2)(4); Translational Biomarker Research of 
AgIng and Neurodegeneration (TBRAIN).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Center for Clinical Neuroscience, Daping 
Hospital, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Ageing and Brain Diseases, Chongqing, China.
(3)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Shenzhen Bay Laboratory, Shenzhen, 
China.
(4)Chongqing Institute for Brain and Intelligence, Guangyang Bay Laboratory, 
Chongqing, China.
(5)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Daping Hospital, Third Military Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(6)Australian eHealth Research Centre, CSIRO Health and Biosecurity, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.
(7)Department of Molecular Imaging & Therapy, Austin Health, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(8)Department of Neurology, West China Hospital of Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China.
(9)Department of Neurology and National Center for Neurological Diseases, 
Huashan Hospital, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers 
Center for Brain Science, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(10)Department of Neurology & Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Center for Neurological 
Disorders, Beijing, China.
(11)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(12)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Mölndal, Sweden.
(13)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London, UK.
(14)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(15)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(16)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(17)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: This study was undertaken to evaluate the diagnostic performance 
of a novel plasma phosphorylated tau (p-tau) 217/amyloid beta (Aβ) 42 ratio test 
for Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: The diagnostic performance of the Lumipulse G plasma p-tau217/Aβ42 
ratio was evaluated using Aβ and tau positron emission tomography (PET) as 
reference standards in a clinic cohort (n = 391) and a community cohort 
(n = 121).
RESULTS: Plasma p-tau217/Aβ42 exhibited high performance for abnormal statuses 
of Aβ PET (area under the curve [AUC]: 0.963 to 0.966) and tau PET (AUC: 0.947 
to 0.974), which were clinically equivalent to those of cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) p-tau181/Aβ42 and Aβ42/Aβ40 and higher than those of blood p-tau217, 
Aβ42/Aβ40, p-tau181, and p-tau181/Aβ42 in both clinic and community cohorts. 
Applying a two-cutoff approach improved the specificity without reducing 
sensitivity. The p-tau217/Aβ42 ratio had a lower intermediate percentage than 
p-tau217 alone in both clinic (10.6% vs 13.0%) and community (16.5% vs 31.4%) 
cohorts.
DISCUSSION: Plasma p-tau217/Aβ42 has high performance in detecting cerebral AD 
pathologies, thus offering a promising tool for clinical diagnosis and community 
screening of AD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Lumipulse G plasma p-tau217 and the p-tau217/Aβ42 ratio accurately 
identified abnormal Aβ and tau PET statuses in both clinical and community 
cohorts. The performance of plasma p-tau217 and p-tau217/Aβ42 ratio were 
equivalent to CSF tests. Plasma p-tau217/Aβ42 ratio outperformed p-tau217 alone 
in identifying Aβ PET positivity, and this superiority is more obvious in the 
community cohort, suggesting an advantage in the early diagnosis of AD. Two cut 
points of p-tau217/Aβ42 were established in the Chinese population for clinical 
laboratory and community screening uses.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70038
PMCID: PMC11953589
PMID: 40156286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.Z. has served on scientific advisory boards 
and/or as a consultant for AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, 
Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage 
Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, 
Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave and has given lectures at 
symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk, and Roche. The other authors declare no competing interests. Author 
disclosures are available in the Supporting information.


68. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70064. doi: 10.1002/alz.70064.

Primary care preparedness to care for patients with ADRD: A national survey 
study.

Januszewicz J(1), Fowler NR(2)(3)(4)(5), Mackwood MB(6), Fisher E(1), Andrews 
AO(1), Schmidt RO(1), Akré EL(7), Schifferdecker KE(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice, Geisel School of 
Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon, New Hampshire, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
Indiana, USA.
(3)Indiana University Center for Aging Research, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(4)Center for Aging Research, Regenstrief Institute Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana, 
USA.
(5)Center for Health Innovation and Implementation Science, Indiana Clinical and 
Translational Science Institute, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(6)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Geisel School of Medicine at 
Dartmouth, Lebanon, New Hampshire, USA.
(7)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

INTRODUCTION: It is unknown how prepared primary care practices are to deliver 
recommended dementia care.
METHODS: A nationally representative survey of US primary care practices focused 
on care delivery processes, including those for patients with Alzheimer's 
disease and related dementias (ADRD).
RESULTS: A total of 1245 of 3498 practices (36%) responded. Most practices 
reported systems to detect patients with ADRD (67%) and refer patients for 
diagnostic testing (75%). Fewer required ADRD-related training (45%-46%) or 
maintained an ADRD registry (29%). Practices that scored higher on ADRD care 
preparedness were more likely to be smaller, receive a higher proportion of 
revenue from Medicare, and have other important practice capabilities.
DISCUSSION: Primary care practices have mixed preparedness to care for patients 
with ADRD. Efforts to boost ADRD preparedness, including providing adequate 
infrastructure and resources directly to primary care, should be a priority to 
address disparities in diagnosis and to optimize the patient and caregiver 
journey.
HIGHLIGHTS: Mixed ADRD preparedness identified in primary care practices across 
the United States. Practices often lack ADRD-specific registries and staff 
training initiatives. Medicare-reliant and larger physician-owned groups show 
higher ADRD preparedness. FQHCs reported lower ADRD preparedness, highlighting 
potential gaps in care. Cultural awareness and other support services correlate 
with better ADRD readiness.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70064
PMCID: PMC11953564
PMID: 40156282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting Information.


69. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70067. doi: 10.1002/alz.70067.

Accountable care organizations and Medicare payments for residents with ADRD in 
disadvantaged neighborhoods.

Jang S(1)(2)(3), Chen J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, 
University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA.
(2)The Hospital And Public health interdisciPlinarY research (HAPPY) Lab, School 
of Public Health, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA.
(3)Center on Aging, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Accountable care organizations (ACOs) are well positioned to 
promote care coordination. However, robust evidence of ACOs' impact on Medicare 
payments for residents with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) in 
disadvantaged neighborhoods remains limited.
METHODS: Using a 2016 to 2020 longitudinal dataset, we examined the effects of 
ACO enrollment on Medicare payments for people newly diagnosed with ADRD, 
focusing on the neighborhood Social Vulnerability Index (SVI) and its 
subcategories. Multivariable generalized estimating equation (GEE) models were 
applied.
RESULTS: ACO enrollment was associated with significantly reduced total payments 
across all SVI subcategories. The highest cost savings were observed among ADRD 
patients living in neighborhoods with high proportions of racial and ethnic 
minorities. Results also showed that higher quality ACOs were associated with 
lower total payments.
DISCUSSION: ACOs have a great potential to save health-care costs for 
beneficiaries with ADRD living in socially vulnerable neighborhoods, 
particularly for those residing in areas with higher proportions of racial and 
ethnic minority populations.
HIGHLIGHTS: Accountable care organizations (ACOs) reduced Medicare payments for 
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias across neighborhood disadvantage 
levels. The cost reductions varied by specific indicators of social 
vulnerability. Highest cost savings were found among residents living with high 
proportion of racial/ethnic minorities. Cost savings were the greatest among the 
highest quality ACOs.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70067
PMCID: PMC11953568
PMID: 40156279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author disclosures are available in the 
supporting information.


70. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e14627. doi: 10.1002/alz.14627.

Sociodemographic modifiers of effects of statin initiation on dementia 
incidence: An emulated trial design in a large health care member population 
with 10+ years of follow-up.

Choi M(1), Zimmerman SC(1), Jiang C(2), Wang J(1), Swinnerton K(3), Hoffmann 
TJ(1)(4), Oni-Orisan A(4)(5), Ferguson EL(1), Meyers T(2), Choudhary V(2), 
Whitmer RA(2)(6), Risch N(1)(4), Krauss RM(7), Schaefer CM(2), Glymour MM(8), 
Gilsanz P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente, Oakland, California, USA.
(3)Boston Cooperative Studies Program, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, 
Boston, California, USA.
(4)Institute for Human Genetics, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(5)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(6)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California Davis, Davis, 
California, USA.
(7)Departments of Pediatrics and Medicine, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Mixed evidence on how statin use affects risk of Alzheimer's 
disease and related dementias (ADRD) may reflect heterogeneity across 
sociodemographic factors. Few studies have sufficient power to evaluate effect 
modifiers.
METHODS: Kaiser Permanente Northern California (KPNC) members (n = 705,061; 
n = 202,937 with sociodemographic surveys) who initiated statins from 2001 to 
2010 were matched on age and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) with 
non-initiators and followed through 2020 for incident ADRD. Inverse 
probability-weighted Cox proportional hazards models were used to evaluate 
effect modification by age, gender, race/ethnicity, education, marital status, 
income, and immigrant generation.
RESULTS: Statin initiation (vs non-initiation) was not associated with ADRD 
incidence in any of the 32 subgroups (p > .05). Hazard ratios ranged from 0.964 
(95% CI: 0.923 to 1.006) among Asian-identified participants to 1.122 (95% CI: 
0.995 to 1.265) in the highest income category.
DISCUSSION: Sociodemographic heterogeneity appears to have little to no 
influence on the relationship between statin initiation and dementia.
HIGHLIGHTS: The study includes a large and diverse cohort from Kaiser Permanente 
(N = 705,061). An emulated trial design of statin initiation on dementia 
incidence was used. Effect modification by sociodemographic factors was 
assessed. There were no significant Alzheimer's disease and related dementias 
(ADRD) risk differences in 32 sociodemographic subgroups (p > 0.05).

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14627
PMCID: PMC11953565
PMID: 40156267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: S.Z. has received support for the present work 
through the National Institutes of Health–National Institute on Aging (NIH‐NIA) 
grant RF1AG069259 and holds personal stock in Eli Lilly and Company, Abbvie, 
Inc., Abbott Laboratories, CRISPR Therapeutics, and Gilead Sciences LLC. J.W. 
has received support through funding from the NIH‐NIA. E.L.F. has received 
funding from the NIH‐NIA (F31AG085965 and T32AG049663) and travel support from 
the Society for Epidemiologic Research (SER). T.J.M. works as a staff scientist 
for an institution supported by NIH‐NIA grant RF1AG069259. R.W. has received 
funding from NIH grants and the Alzheimer's Association, consulted for 
Genentech, and serves on advisory boards for MIDUS, ADD Health, EDIC 
Observational Safety Monitoring Board, and DPPOS Observational Safety Monitoring 
Board. N.R. has received funding from NIH grants. R.K. has received funding from 
the NIA through grant support to his institution. C.S. has received support 
through funding from the NIA (NIH‐NIA grant RF1AG069259) paid to her 
institution. M.M.G. has received funding from NIH‐NIA and the Robert Wood 
Johnson Foundation, royalties from Oxford University Press, honoraria for 
lectures from Harvard University and the University of Wisconsin, and serves on 
the advisory board for the Study of Women Across the Nation OSMB. P.G. receives 
funding from NIH‐NIA, with payments made to her institution, and serves as an 
unpaid Associate Editor of Alzheimer's & Dementia. Author disclosures are 
available in the Supporting Information.


71. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e70013. doi: 10.1002/alz.70013.

A look at caregivers for community-living persons with dementia: Implications 
for the GUIDE model.

Burgdorf JG(1), Freedman VA(2), Wolff JL(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Home Care Policy & Research, VNS Health, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 
USA.
(3)Department of Health Policy & Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Medicare's new Guiding an Improved Dementia Experience (GUIDE) 
model funds integrated dementia care and related caregiver supports for 
community-living persons with dementia (PwD). Caregiver strain is a factor in 
provider payment and performance.
METHODS: We examined national survey data on community-living PwD and their 
caregivers to identify which caregivers would receive support under GUIDE and 
characterize caregiver strain and use of supportive services.
RESULTS: Half of GUIDE-eligible PwD received care from multiple caregivers and 
high strain was common even among caregivers considered "low-complexity" under 
GUIDE. Use of role-related training, respite care, and support groups were low 
(11%, 18%, and 4%, respectively) and did not vary with caregiver strain.
DISCUSSION: Caregiver identification and assessment standards under GUIDE may 
overlook a significant number of caregivers. To maximize impact, innovative 
models like GUIDE should align caregiver engagement and services with the unique 
realities of care networks for PwD.
HIGHLIGHTS: Half of GUIDE-eligible persons with dementia have multiple 
caregivers. 32% of caregivers for community-living PwD report high strain. 11% 
of caregivers for community-living PwD received training and 18% used respite 
care.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.70013
PMCID: PMC11953562
PMID: 40156263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


72. Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Mar;21(3):e14564. doi: 10.1002/alz.14564.

Unraveling temporal patterns of diagnostic markers and comorbidities in 
Alzheimer's disease: Insights from large-scale data.

Rogers B(1).

Author information:
(1)University College London, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Comorbid conditions associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) are 
poorly understood regarding timing and potential impact on disease onset and 
progression.
METHODS: Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care-IV electronic health 
records from 2008 to 2019 were examined. The study identified 2527 AD patients 
(34.9% male, mean age 80.27 years) among 299,712 patients. We examined the 
timing of 12 cardiovascular and metabolic diseases relative to AD diagnosis. 
Data from the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center validated the findings.
RESULTS: Hypertension was the most common comorbidity, diagnosed 1.09 years 
before AD. Depression was the only comorbidity diagnosed after AD start, 0.16 
years on average. AD patients had greater rates of hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia, and depression compared to the general population.
DISCUSSION: The findings emphasize early detection and therapy of AD-related 
comorbidities, notably cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. The temporal link 
between these diseases and AD suggests opportunities for preventive strategies 
and improved care pathways.
HIGHLIGHTS: Temporal analysis of comorbidities: The study reveals hypertension 
and hyperlipidemia as leading precursors to AD, typically diagnosed 1 to 1.3 
years prior to AD onset, while depression emerges predominantly after diagnosis. 
Unique data integration: Large-scale datasets from MIMIC-IV (n = 299,712) and 
NACC (n = 51,836) were leveraged to identify chronological patterns in 12 key 
comorbid conditions relative to AD diagnosis. Sex- and age-specific insights: AD 
prevalence peaks at 80 to 86 years, with females exhibiting higher rates of LOAD 
compared to males. Depression as a post-diagnostic marker: Unlike other 
comorbidities, depression's post-diagnostic mean onset (0.16 years after AD 
diagnosis) highlights the need for targeted mental health interventions in AD 
patients. Implications for early detection: Findings suggest that managing 
hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and other modifiable conditions in midlife may 
delay or reduce the risk of AD development. Comorbidity variability across 
cohorts: Hypertension and hypercholesterolemia showed significantly higher 
prevalence in the NACC cohort compared to MIMIC-IV, reflecting potential 
dataset-specific biases or regional healthcare differences. Future research 
directions: Advocates for longitudinal, multiethnic, and global studies to 
refine early diagnostic criteria and explore preventive strategies tailored to 
comorbid conditions.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14564
PMCID: PMC11953563
PMID: 40156243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the Supporting information.


73. Nat Aging. 2025 May;5(5):883-896. doi: 10.1038/s43587-025-00835-z. Epub 2025
Mar  28.

Plasma p-tau217 and tau-PET predict future cognitive decline among cognitively 
unimpaired individuals: implications for clinical trials.

Ossenkoppele R(#)(1)(2)(3), Salvadó G(#)(4), Janelidze S(4), Pichet Binette 
A(4), Bali D(4), Karlsson L(4), Palmqvist S(4)(5), Mattsson-Carlgren N(4)(6)(7), 
Stomrud E(4)(5), Therriault J(8)(9), Rahmouni N(8)(9), Rosa-Neto P(8)(9), 
Coomans EM(10)(11), van de Giessen E(11)(12), van der Flier WM(10)(11)(13), 
Teunissen CE(11)(14), Jonaitis EM(15)(16), Johnson SC(15)(16), Villeneuve 
S(17)(18); PREVENT-AD Research Group; Benzinger TLS(19)(20), Schindler 
SE(20)(21), Bateman RJ(20)(21)(22), Doecke JD(23), Doré V(23)(24), Feizpour 
A(24)(25), Masters CL(25), Rowe C(24)(25), Wiste HJ(26), Petersen RC(27), Jack 
CR Jr(28), Hansson O(29)(30).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden. r.ossenkoppele@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. r.ossenkoppele@amsterdamumc.nl.
(3)Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. 
r.ossenkoppele@amsterdamumc.nl.
(4)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(5)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(6)Department of Neurology, Skåne University Hospital, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.
(7)Wallenberg Center for Molecular Medicine, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(8)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory, McGill Research Centre for Studies in 
Aging, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(9)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, McGill 
University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(10)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(11)Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(12)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(13)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(14)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(15)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(16)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(17)Centre for Studies on the Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease (StoP-AD), 
Douglas Mental Health University Institute, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(18)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(19)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(20)Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington, 
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(21)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(22)The Tracy Family SILQ Center, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(23)Australian eHealth Research Centre, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial 
Research Organization, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(24)Department of Molecular Imaging and Therapy, Austin Health, Heidelberg, 
Victoria, Australia.
(25)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, the University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(26)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(27)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(28)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(29)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, 
Lund University, Lund, Sweden. oskar.hansson@med.lu.se.
(30)Memory Clinic, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden. 
oskar.hansson@med.lu.se.
(#)Contributed equally

Plasma p-tau217 and tau positron emission tomography (PET) are strong prognostic 
biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but their relative performance in 
predicting future cognitive decline among cognitively unimpaired (CU) 
individuals is unclear. In a head-to-head comparison study including nine 
cohorts and 1,474 individuals, we show that plasma p-tau217 and medial temporal 
lobe tau-PET signal display similar associations with cognitive decline on a 
global cognitive composite test (R2PET = 0.34 versus R2plasma = 0.33, 
Pdifference = 0.653) and with progression to mild cognitive impairment (hazard 
ratio (HR)PET = 1.61 (1.48-1.76) versus HRplasma = 1.57 (1.43-1.72), 
Pdifference = 0.322). Combined plasma and PET models were superior to the 
single-biomarker models (R2 = 0.35, P < 0.01). Sequential selection using plasma 
phosphorylated tau at threonine 217 (p-tau217) and then tau-PET reduced the 
number of participants required for a clinical trial by 94%, compared to a 76% 
reduction when using plasma p-tau217 alone. Thus, plasma p-tau217 and tau-PET 
showed similar performance for predicting future cognitive decline in CU 
individuals, and their sequential use enhances screening efficiency for 
preclinical AD trials.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s43587-025-00835-z
PMCID: PMC12092243
PMID: 40155777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: R.O. has received research 
support from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen Research & Development, Roche, 
Quanterix and Optina Diagnostics. He has given lectures in symposia sponsored by 
GE Healthcare, received speaker fees from Springer and serves on advisory boards 
and/or steering committees for Asceneuron, Bristol Myers Squibb and Biogen. G.S. 
has received speaker fees from Springer and Adium. S.P. has acquired research 
support (for the institution) from ki elements (ADDF) and Avid. In the past 2 
years, he has received consultancy and/or speaker fees from BioArctic, Biogen, 
Esai, Lilly and Roche. Research programs of W.M.v.d.F. have been funded by 
ZonMw, the NWO, EU-JPND, EU-IHI, Alzheimer Nederland, the Hersenstichting 
CardioVascular Onderzoek Nederland, Health~Holland, Topsector Life Sciences & 
Health, the Stichting Dioraphte, Gieskes-Strijbis Fonds, the Stichting 
Equilibrio, Edwin Bouw Fonds, the Pasman Stichting, the Stichting Alzheimer & 
Neuropsychiatrie Foundation, Philips, Biogen MA, Novartis-NL, Life-MI, Avid, 
Roche, Fujifilm, Eisai and Combinostics. W.M.v.d.F. holds the Pasman chair. 
W.M.v.d.F. is a recipient of ABOARD, which is a public–private partnership 
receiving funding from ZonMw (73305095007) and Health~Holland, Topsector Life 
Sciences & Health (PPP allowance, LSHM20106). W.M.v.d.F. is a recipient of 
TAP-dementia ( http://www.tap-dementia.nl ), receiving funding from ZonMw 
(10510032120003) in the context of the Onderzoeksprogramma Dementie, part of the 
Dutch National Dementia Strategy. TAP-dementia receives cofinancing from Avid 
Radiopharmaceuticals and Amprion. Gieskes-Strijbis Fonds also contributes to 
TAP-dementia. W.M.v.d.F. has been an invited speaker at Biogen MA, Danone, 
Eisai, WebMD Neurology (Medscape), Novo Nordisk, Springer Healthcare and the 
European Brain Council. W.M.v.d.F. is a consultant to the Oxford Health Policy 
Forum CIC, Roche, Biogen MA and Eisai. W.M.v.d.F. participated in advisory 
boards of Biogen MA, Roche and Eli Lilly. W.M.v.d.F. is member of the steering 
committee of EVOKE and EVOKE+ (Novo Nordisk). All funding is paid to her 
institution. W.M.v.d.F. is member of the steering committee of PAVE and Think 
Brain Health. W.M.v.d.F. was an associate editor of Alzheimer’s Research and 
Therapy in 2020 and 2021. W.M.v.d.F. is an associate editor at Brain. E.v.d.G. 
has performed contract research for Heuron and Roche. E.v.d.G. has a consultancy 
agreement with IXICO and Life Molecular Imaging for reading PET scans. C.E.T. 
has research contracts with Acumen, ADx Neurosciences, AC Immune, Alamar, 
Aribio, Axon Neurosciences, Beckman-Coulter, BioConnect, Bioorchestra, 
Brainstorm Therapeutics, Celgene, Cognition Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Eisai, Eli 
Lilly, Fujirebio, Instant NanoBiosensors, Novo Nordisk, Olink, PeopleBio, 
Quanterix, Roche, Toyama and Vivoryon. She is the editor in chief of Alzheimer’s 
Research and Therapy and serves on editorial boards of Medidact 
Neurologie/Springer and Neurology: Neuroimmunology & Neuroinflammation. She had 
consultancy and/or speaker contracts for Eli Lilly, Merck, Novo Nordisk, Olink 
and Roche. S.E.S. has served as a consultant to Eisai and Novo Nordisk and has 
received speaker fees from Eli Lilly and Medscape. She has analyzed biomarker 
data provided by C2N Diagnostics. J.T. has served as a consultant for the 
Neurotorium educational platform and for Alzheon. P.R.-N. has served on 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Roche, Novo Nordisk, Eisai 
and Cerveau Radiopharmaceuticals. C.R. has received research grants from the 
National Health and Medical Research Council, Enigma Australia, Biogen, Eisai 
and AbbVie. He is on the scientific advisory board for Enigma/Meilleur 
Technologies and has consulted for Prothena, Eisai, Roche and Biogen Australia. 
R.J.B. has received laboratory research funding from the National Institutes of 
Health, the Alzheimer’s Association, the BrightFocus Foundation, the Rainwater 
Foundation, the Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration FTD Biomarkers 
Initiative, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Janssen, the Tau Consortium, Novartis, 
Centene, the Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration, the Cure Alzheimer’s 
Fund, Coins for Alzheimer’s Research Trust Fund, the Foundation for 
Barnes-Jewish Hospital, the Good Ventures Foundation, the DIAN-TU Pharma 
Consortium, the Tau SILK Consortium (AbbVie, Biogen, Eli Lilly and an anonymous 
organization), the NfL Consortium (AbbVie, Biogen, Bristol Meyers Squibb, 
Hoffmann-La Roche) and the Tracy Family SILQ Center; has equity ownership 
interest in C2N Diagnostics and receives income based on technology licensed by 
Washington University to C2N Diagnostics; and receives income from C2N 
Diagnostics for serving on the scientific advisory board. O.H. has acquired 
research support (for the institution) from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, 
C2N Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Fujirebio, GE Healthcare and Roche. In the 
past 2 years, he has received consultancy and/or speaker fees from AC Immune, 
ALZpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol Meyers Squibb, Cerveau, Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
Fujirebio, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi and Siemens. S.C.J. has 
served in the past 2 years on advisory boards for Enigma Biomedical and ALZpath. 
The other authors report no competing interests.


74. Sci Rep. 2025 Mar 28;15(1):10832. doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-92966-x.

Gadolinium based contrast agent induced electrical conductivity heterogeneity 
analysis in the brain of Alzheimer's disease.

Jahng GH(1), Lee MB(2), Kwon OI(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Kyung Hee University Hospital at Gangdong, College 
of Medicine, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, 05278, Korea.
(2)Department of Mathematics, College of Basic Science, Konkuk University, 
Seoul, 05029, Korea.
(3)Department of Mathematics, College of Basic Science, Konkuk University, 
Seoul, 05029, Korea. oikwon@konkuk.ac.kr.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) often uses gadolinium-based contrast agents 
(GBCAs) to improve the characterization of imaging contrast, owing to their 
strong paramagnetic properties. Magnetic resonance electrical properties 
tomography (MREPT) visualizes the conductivity distribution of biological 
tissues at the Larmor frequency using the [Formula: see text] field phase 
signal. In this paper, we investigate the effect of GBCA on brain conductivity. 
To compare the differences of reconstructed noisy conductivity maps before and 
after the GBCA injection, we propose a method to remove the background 
low-frequency noise artifact based on an elliptic partial differential equation. 
By analyzing the relationship between electrical conductivity and magnetic 
permeability, the objective of this study is to develop a cost-effective and 
accessible initial screening imaging tool for diagnosing and monitoring the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology. To investigate vascular 
damage in AD, we define a conductivity heterogeneity volume fraction (CHVF) 
caused by GBCA leakage. Using CHVF, we develop three indices to characterize 
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD. To verify the proposed method, we 
studied a total of 42 participants, including 14 individuals diagnosed with AD, 
18 participants with MCI, and 10 cognitively normal (CN) participants. Finally, 
we designed a radar chart informed by the CHVF analysis, to exhibit the 
pertinent parameters for MCI and AD patients, facilitating the evaluation and 
ongoing monitoring of each patient's diagnosis and treatment regimen.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-92966-x
PMCID: PMC11953297
PMID: 40155644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


75. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;12(5):100150. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100150.  Epub 2025 Mar 27.

Donanemab: Appropriate use recommendations.

Rabinovici GD(1), Selkoe DJ(2), Schindler SE(3), Aisen P(4), Apostolova LG(5), 
Atri A(6), Greenberg SM(7), Hendrix SB(8), Petersen RC(9), Weiner M(10), 
Salloway S(11), Cummings J(12).

Author information:
(1)Memory & Aging Center, Departments of Neurology, Radiology and Biomedical 
Imaging, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA. 
Electronic address: Gil.Rabinovici@ucsf.edu.
(2)Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Department of Neurology, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.
(4)Alzheimer's Treatment Research Institute, University of Southern California, 
San Diego, CA, USA.
(5)Departments of Neurology, Radiology, Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana 
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(6)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Banner Health, Sun City, AZ, USA; 
Center for Brain/Mind Medicine, Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Pentara Corporation, Millcreek UT, USA.
(9)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(10)Departments of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Medicine, Psychiatry and 
Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(11)Butler Hospital and Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence RI, USA.
(12)Chambers-Grundy Center for Transformative Neuroscience, Department of Brain 
Health, Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine, University of Nevada Las Vegas, Las 
Vegas, NV, USA.

Donanemab (Kisunla®), an IgG1 monoclonal antibody targeting N-terminal 
pyroglutamate-modified forms of amyloid-β, is approved in the United States for 
treatment of early symptomatic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Appropriate Use 
Recommendations (AUR) were developed to guide the implementation of donanemab in 
real-world practice, prioritizing safety considerations and opportunity for 
effectiveness. The AUR were developed by the AD and Related Disorders 
Therapeutic Workgroup by consensus, integrating available data and expert 
opinion. Appropriate candidates for donanemab treatment include persons with 
mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia due to AD (Clinical Stages 3-4, MMSE 
20-30) who have biomarker confirmation of AD pathology by PET or CSF. Tau PET is 
not required for eligibility. Apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotyping should be 
performed prior to treatment to inform an individual's risk of developing 
Amyloid-Related Imaging Abnormalities (ARIA). Pre-treatment MRI should be 
obtained no more than 12 months prior to treatment. Patients with findings of >4 
cerebral microbleeds, cortical superficial siderosis or a major vascular 
contribution to cognitive impairment should be excluded from treatment. The 
decision to initiate therapy should be grounded in a shared decision-making 
process that emphasizes the patient's values and goals of care. Donanemab is 
administered as a monthly intravenous infusion. Surveillance MRIs to evaluate 
for ARIA should be performed prior to the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 7th infusions, prior 
to the 12th dose in higher risk individuals, and at any time ARIA is suspected 
clinically. Clinicians may consider discontinuing treatment if amyloid clearance 
is demonstrated by amyloid PET, typically obtained 12-18 months after initiating 
treatment.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100150
PMCID: PMC12180672
PMID: 40155270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Dr. Rabinovici has received 
research support from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly, Genentech, GE 
Healthcare and Life Molecular Imaging. He has served as a paid scientific 
advisor for Alector, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Bristol Myers Squibb, C2N, Eli 
Lilly, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novo Nordisk, Roche. He has received speaking 
honoraria from Peerview and Medscape. He is an Associate Editor for JAMA and 
JAMA Neurology. Dr. Selkoe is a director of Prothena Biosciences and an ad hoc 
consultant and speaker for Eisai and ad hoc consultant to Roche. Dr. Schindler 
has served on advisory boards and/or as a speaker for Eisai, Eli Lilly, Novo 
Nordisk. Dr. Aisen has research grants from Eli Lilly and Eisai, and consults 
with Merck, Roche, Genentech, Abbvie, Biogen, ImmunoBrain Checkpoint, AltPep, 
Alector, Arrowhead and Neurimmune. He is an Editor for JPAD. Dr. Apostolova has 
received grant support from Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Life Molecular Imaging, 
Roche Diagnostics, Eli Lilly. She has consulted for Biogen, Two Labs, IQVIA, 
Genentech, Siemens, Corium, Eli Lilly, GE Healhcare, Eisai, Roche Diagnostics, 
Alnylam, Otsuka. Dr. Atri over the last 15 years, has received honoraria or 
support for consulting; participating in independent data safety monitoring 
boards; providing educational lectures, programs, and materials; or serving on 
advisory boards for AbbVie, Acadia, Allergan, AriBio, Axovant, AZ Therapies, 
Axsome, Biogen, Eisai, Forest, Grifols, JOMDD, Lantheus, Life Molecular, 
Lundbeck (in partnership with Otsuka), Merck, Novo Nordisk, ONO, Prothena, 
Qynapse, Roche, Genentech, Sunovion, Suven, Synexus, and Vaxxinity. He has 
served as a consultant to Biogen, Eisai, Prothena and Roche/Genentech and has 
served as a site-PI (institutional contract) for clinical trials sponsored by 
Biogen, Eisai, and Lilly. He served as project arm leader for DIAN-TU 
gantenerumab OLE study (WUSTL with Roche/Genentech). He currently serves as site 
PI for the USC/ATRI/ACTC & Eisai AHEAD 3–45 study, Project Arm Leader for the 
DIAN-TU ART study (lecanemab DIAD Amyloid Plaque Reduction and Prevention 
study), and Global Coordinating PI for the Advance Study (Life Molecular Imaging 
PI-2620 histopathology study). At his previous institution. He served as site PI 
for the Biogen EMERGE study. He receives royalties from Oxford University Press. 
Dr. Greenberg has consulted for Eli Lilly. Dr. Hendrix is owner of Pentara, and 
consults with dozens of companies in the Alzheimer's space, including Eli Lilly 
Dr. Petersen has served as a consultant for Roche, Genentech, Eli Lilly, Eisai, 
Novartis, Novo Norodisk. He receives royalties from Oxford University Press and 
UpToDate and has provided educational services for Medscape. Dr. Salloway has 
received grant support from Janssen, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Biogen and Cognition. He 
has provided consultation to Eli Lilly, Eisai, Biogen, Merck, BMS, Alector, 
Neurophet, Icometrix, Cognition Therapeutics, Biohaven, Novo Nordisk, Roche, 
Abbvie, Genentech, Acumen and Kisbee. He is an Associate Editor of the Journal 
of Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease and Alzheimer's and Dementia: Diagnosis, 
Assessment and Disease Monitoring. Dr. Cummings has provided consultation to 
Acadia, Acumen, ALZpath, Annovis, Aprinoia, Artery, Biogen, Biohaven, BioXcel, 
Bristol-Myers Squib, Eisai, Fosun, GAP Foundation, Green Valley, Janssen, 
Karuna, Kinoxis, Lighthouse, Lilly, Lundbeck, LSP/eqt, Mangrove Therapeutics, 
Merck, MoCA Cognition, New Amsterdam, Novo Nordisk, onocC4, Optoceutics, Otsuka, 
Oxford Brain Diagnostics, Praxis, Prothena, ReMYND, Roche, Scottish Brain 
Sciences, Signant Health, Simcere, sinaptica, T-Neuro, TrueBinding, and 
Vaxxinity pharmaceutical, assessment, and investment companies. Dr. Cummings is 
supported by NIGMS grant P20GM109025; NIA R35AG71476; NIA R25AG083721–01; NINDS 
RO1NS139383; Alzheimer's Disease Drug Discovery Foundation (ADDF); Ted and Maria 
Quirk Endowment; Joy Chambers-Grundy Endowment.


76. Anal Chim Acta. 2025 May 8;1350:343836. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2025.343836. Epub 
2025 Feb 21.

Dual-mode sensing platform based on an iodide ion synergistic covalent triazine 
frameworks (CTFs) for point-of-care testing (POCT) of acetylcholinesterase.

Chen Y(1), Cheng H(1), Tao H(1), Liu J(1), Li Y(2), Li QX(3), Yang T(1), Meng 
S(1), Yang Y(1), Hu R(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Yunnan Normal University, 
Yunnan, Kunming, 650092, PR China.
(2)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Yunnan Normal University, 
Yunnan, Kunming, 650092, PR China; Baoshan College of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Yunnan, Baoshan, 678000, PR China.
(3)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Yunnan Normal University, 
Yunnan, Kunming, 650092, PR China. Electronic address: qiuxiali03@163.com.
(4)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Yunnan Normal University, 
Yunnan, Kunming, 650092, PR China. Electronic address: hudierong_168@163.com.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) plays a critical role in maintaining nervous system 
homeostasis and coordinating essential biological reactions. AChE is an 
important biomarker for early diagnosis and treatment, including Parkinson's 
disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Huntington's disease (HD). 
Therefore, developing efficient and immediate sensing platforms for AChE 
detection is crucial for advancing early diagnostic tools. In this study, we 
developed a dual-mode colorimetric/photothermal sensing platform based on iodide 
ion-synergized covalent porphyrin-triazine backbone nanozymes (Zn-CTF/I) to 
detect AChE with high sensitivity and reliability. The synergistic interaction 
between iodide ions and zinc atoms effectively modulated the electronic 
structure of the catalytic active site, significantly enhancing the 
peroxidase-like (POD-like) activity of Zn-CTF/I. This enhancement led to a 
10-fold reduction in the AChE detection limit compared to controls, with a 
minimum detection limit of 0.003 U L-1, outperforming other reported assays. The 
integration of temperature-based photothermal signals with colorimetric 
detection improved the platform's accuracy and reliability. The system also 
demonstrated excellent recovery performance in detecting AChE in complex serum 
samples. The proposed dual-mode sensing platform provides a sensitive, reliable, 
and robust tool for AChE detection, with promising applications in early 
diagnosis and treatment monitoring of neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aca.2025.343836
PMID: 40155166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


77. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;12(4):100059. doi:
10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100059.  Epub 2025 Jan 10.

Association between L-α glycerylphosphorylcholine use and delayed dementia 
conversion: A nationwide longitudinal study in South Korea.

Kim HK(1), Park S(2), Kim SW(3), Park ES(1), Hong JY(1), Hong I(4), Baek MS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Wonju Severance Christian Hospital, Yonsei 
University Wonju College of Medicine, Wonju, South Korea.
(2)Department of Biostatistics and Computing, Graduate School, Yonsei 
University, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Wonju Severance Christian Hospital, Yonsei 
University Wonju College of Medicine, Wonju, South Korea; Research Institute of 
Metabolism and Inflammation, Yonsei University Wonju College of Medicine, Wonju, 
South Korea.
(4)Department of Occupational Therapy, College of Software and Digital 
Healthcare Convergence, Yonsei University, Wonju, South Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Wonju Severance Christian Hospital, Yonsei 
University Wonju College of Medicine, Wonju, South Korea; Research Institute of 
Metabolism and Inflammation, Yonsei University Wonju College of Medicine, Wonju, 
South Korea. Electronic address: minbaek@yonsei.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia are two of the most common 
causes of dementia. While early diagnosis and intervention are crucial, 
available treatments and research concerning the mild cognitive impairment stage 
remain limited. This study aimed to evaluate the real-world effectiveness and 
safety of L-α glycerylphosphorylcholine in this context.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the impact of L-α glycerylphosphorylcholine on the 
risk of conversion from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease 
dementia and vascular dementia, as well as its influence on stroke risk DESIGN: 
A nationwide, population-based cohort study SETTING: Data from South Korea's 
National Health Insurance Service PARTICIPANTS: Overall, 508,107 patients newly 
diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment between 2013 and 2016 were included.
INTERVENTION: Patients were classified as users or non-users of L-α 
glycerylphosphorylcholine based on prescription records.
MEASUREMENTS: The primary outcomes were the risk of progression to Alzheimer's 
disease dementia and vascular dementia. Stroke risk was examined as a secondary 
outcome. A time-dependent Cox regression analysis was used to adjust for 
demographic and clinical factors.
RESULTS: Compared to non-users, L-α glycerylphosphorylcholine users had a lower 
risk of progression to Alzheimer's disease dementia (hazard ratio = 0.899, 95 % 
confidence interval: 0.882-0.918) and vascular dementia (hazard ratio = 0.832, 
95 % confidence interval: 0.801-0.865) within 2,435,924 and 662,281.6 
person-years, respectively. In patients under 65, L-α glycerylphosphorylcholine 
significantly reduced the risk of progression to Alzheimer's and vascular 
dementia. Stroke risk significantly decreased in patients who did not progress 
to dementia but not in those who did.
CONCLUSIONS: L-α Glycerylphosphorylcholine reduces dementia conversion and 
stroke risk in patients with mild cognitive impairment, making it a viable early 
intervention. Future large-scale randomized controlled studies should examine 
its effects on other dementia subtypes and long-term cognitive outcomes.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjpad.2025.100059
PMCID: PMC12184023
PMID: 40155153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Min Seok Baek reports financial 
support was provided by Korea Ministry of Science and ICT. Han-Kyeol Kim reports 
financial support was provided by Korea Ministry of Education. Min Seok Baek 
reports financial support was provided by Korea Ministry of Trade Industry and 
Energy. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


78. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 May 28;348:119699. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119699.
Epub  2025 Mar 26.

Revealing the effective components and mechanism of Zhimu-Huangbai herb-pair in 
the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Wang Y(1), Lei X(2), Zhao D(3), Xue A(3), Zhu Z(2), Jin M(2), Zhang N(4), Li 
X(5).

Author information:
(1)Engineering Research Center of Tropical Medicine Innovation and 
Transformation of Ministry of Education & International Joint Research Center of 
Human-Machine Intelligent Collaborative for Tumor Precision Diagnosis and 
Treatment of Hainan Province & Hainan Provincial Key Laboratory of Research and 
Development on Tropical Herbs & Haikou Key Laboratory of Li Nationality 
Medicine, School of Pharmacy, Hainan Medical University, Haikou, 571199, Hainan 
Province, China; Public Research Center of Hainan Medical University, Haikou, 
571199, China.
(2)Wuxi Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Jiangsu 
CM Clinical Innovation Center of Degenerative Bone & Joint Disease, 214071 Wuxi, 
Jiangsu, China.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, 
150040, China.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Harbin, 
150040, China. Electronic address: zhangning0454@163.com.
(5)Engineering Research Center of Tropical Medicine Innovation and 
Transformation of Ministry of Education & International Joint Research Center of 
Human-Machine Intelligent Collaborative for Tumor Precision Diagnosis and 
Treatment of Hainan Province & Hainan Provincial Key Laboratory of Research and 
Development on Tropical Herbs & Haikou Key Laboratory of Li Nationality 
Medicine, School of Pharmacy, Hainan Medical University, Haikou, 571199, Hainan 
Province, China. Electronic address: lixiaoliang-1984@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The Zhimu-Huangbai herb-pair (ZB) is one of the 
most widely accepted prescriptions for treating Alzheimer's disease (AD) in 
traditional Chinese medicine. However, the effective components and mechanism of 
ZB for treating AD have not been fully understood.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aims to reveal the active components of ZB in the 
treatment of AD through serum pharmacochemistry, identify the potential targets 
and pathways of ZB in treating AD through metabolomics, and subsequently verify 
its mechanism through in vivo experiments.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The components of ZB in both blood and cerebrospinal 
fluid were determined by using UPLC-Q-TOF-MS. The efficacy of ZB was assessed in 
a mouse model of AD induced by D-galactose. Metabolomics methods were used for 
screening and identification of differential metabolites and enrichment analysis 
of metabolic pathways. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to 
detect the activities of enzyme complexes I-IV, as well as the levels of ATP and 
ROS in hippocampal mitochondria of mice. Additionally, the expression of key 
genes and proteins in the signaling pathway was examined by utilizing 
immunohistochemistry, real-time quantitative PCR, and Western blot.
RESULTS: A total of 27 prototype components were identified from the serum of 
rats given ZB, of which 8 components were simultaneously detected in the 
cerebrospinal fluid. A total of 20 different metabolites were identified from 
mouse plasma using a metabolomics technique. The enrichment analysis results 
revealed that the pathway of ZB treatment for AD mainly involves 
glycerophospholipid metabolism, arachidonic acid metabolism, and unsaturated 
fatty acid biosynthesis. In vivo experiments have shown that ZB can improve the 
energy metabolism of the brain and increase the production of ATP by improving 
mitochondrial dysfunction. In addition, ZB could promote the release of 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), increase the density of postsynaptic 
density protein (PSD95), and enhance the expression of synaptophysin (SYN).
CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates that ZB can improve mitochondrial and 
synaptic function in AD mice induced by D-gal, providing experimental support 
for the clinical application and drug development for the prevention and 
treatment of AD.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119699
PMID: 40154898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


79. Brain Res. 2025 May 15;1855:149601. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149601. Epub
 2025 Mar 26.

Amyloidogenic and non-amyloidogenic pathways of amyloid precursor protein 
processing in oligodendrocytes.

Hida M(1), Yasuda K(2), Toyokawa M(1), Asada-Utsugi M(3), Toda S(2), Yanagida 
N(2), Takahashi R(2), Kinoshita A(1), Maki T(4).

Author information:
(1)Human Health Sciences, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan.
(3)Human Health Sciences, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan; 
Neurology of Department of Neuroscience Research Center, Shiga University of 
Medical Science, Japan.
(4)Department of Neurology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan. 
Electronic address: harutoma@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Excessive accumulation of toxic amyloid-β (Aβ) species in the brain is a major 
pathological process triggering neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Recent studies indicate that both neurons and glial cells, including 
oligodendrocyte lineages (OLs), contribute to brain homeostasis and affect AD 
pathology; however, the roles of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) and 
oligodendrocytes (OLGs) in AD remain to be fully elucidated. This study examined 
Aβ production and related protein expression in primary cultured OLs. Primary 
cultured OLs produced Aβ40 and Aβ42 and expressed amyloid precursor protein 
(APP), β-secretase (BACE1) and γ-secretase (PS1) as well as α-secretase 
(ADAM10). OLGs express APP770 in addition to APP695. Treatment with a 
γ-secretase inhibitor reduced Aβ40 and Aβ42 production levels derived from 
OPCs/OLGs and suppressed OPC differentiation. Additionally, conditioned media 
from OLGs improved neuronal cell viability under oxidative stress and contained 
higher levels of sAPPα compared to OPCs. The neuroprotective effect of OLG was 
diminished by a sAPPα inhibitor, suggesting that OLG-derived sAPPα protects 
neurons under oxidative stress. These findings revealed that OLs produce 
pathogenic Aβ40/42 via the amyloidogenic pathway and secrete neuroprotective 
sAPPα via the non-amyloidogenic pathway. Elucidating the pathological shift from 
beneficial non-amyloidogenic to harmful amyloidogenic processes in OLs during AD 
onset and progression would provide crucial insights into novel therapeutic 
approaches.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2025.149601
PMID: 40154861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


80. J Ayurveda Integr Med. 2025 Mar-Apr;16(2):101081. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaim.2024.101081. Epub 2025 Mar 27.

Molecular insights into anti-inflammatory activities of selected Indian herbs.

Upadhyay S(1), Rajan Swami(2), Shrivastava S(3), Jeengar MK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Amrita School of Pharmacy, Amrita Vishwa 
Vidyapeetham, AIMS Health Sciences Campus, Kochi, 682041, Kerala, India.
(2)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, 140 401, Punjab, India.
(3)School of Pharmacy, School of Health & Allied Sciences, ARKA JAIN University, 
Gamaharia, Seraikela Kharsawan, 832108, Jharkhand, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Amrita School of Pharmacy, Amrita Vishwa 
Vidyapeetham, AIMS Health Sciences Campus, Kochi, 682041, Kerala, India. 
Electronic address: manish.pharmacology@live.in.

Inflammation is a universal response of mammalian tissue to harm, comprising 
reactions to injuries, pathogens, and foreign particles. Chronic inflammation, 
often present in allergies and autoimmune disorders, poses significant risks, 
potentially leading to conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer's 
disease, asthma, and inflammatory bowel disease. It can also be a common 
precursor to cancer. However, Contemporary therapies like NSAIDs and 
corticosteroids often provide incomplete relief from chronic inflammation and 
carry significant side effects, underscoring the need for exploring traditional 
and plant-based medicines for new, effective treatments. As such, there is a 
growing demand for natural bioactive substances for health maintenance and 
disease risk reduction. Traditional and plant-based medicines, long-used in 
managing inflammation and other disorders, hold promise for the discovery of 
bioactive lead compounds and subsequent drug development for treating 
inflammatory disorders. This review encompasses an extensive study of the 
anti-inflammatory potential of selected traditional Indian herbal medicines and 
the associated pharmacological mechanisms of action. The inflammatory process 
often entails the activation of transcription factors, induction of various 
signaling cascades, gene expression, activation of inflammatory enzymes, and 
release of pro-inflammatory cytokines in inflammatory or immune cells. Detailed 
exploration of active components in traditional herbal medicines such as the 
Neem (Azadirachta indica), Salai guggul (Boswellia serrata), Green tea (Camellia 
sinensis), Saffron (Crocus sativus), Turmeric (Curcuma longa), Mangosteen 
(Garcinia mangostana), Indian mulberry (Morinda citrifolia), Black cumin 
(Nigella sativa), Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera), and Ginger (Zingiber 
officinale) reveals their potential anti-inflammatory properties. The in-depth 
study of these plants provides insight into their potential applications in 
managing inflammatory disorders. Further research and development are necessary 
to substantiate these findings and translate them into clinically effective 
therapeutics.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaim.2024.101081
PMCID: PMC11986983
PMID: 40154100

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare the 
following financial interests/personal relationships which may be considered as 
potential competing interests: Dr. Manish Kumar Jeengar reports financial 
support was provided by Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham. The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


81. Bioorg Med Chem. 2025 Jun 1;123:118165. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2025.118165. Epub 
2025 Mar 19.

Targeting amyloidogenic proteins through cyclic peptides - A medicinal chemistry 
perspective.

Zargaham MK(1), Ibrahim A(2), Ahmed M(1), Babar MM(3), Rajadas J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Shifa College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Shifa Tameer-e-Millat University, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Shifa College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Shifa Tameer-e-Millat University, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Shifa College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Shifa Tameer-e-Millat University, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan; Advanced 
Drug Delivery and Regenerative Biomaterials Laboratory of Cardiovascular 
Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, CA 94304, USA. Electronic address: mustafeez.babar@fulbrightmail.org.
(4)Advanced Drug Delivery and Regenerative Biomaterials Laboratory of 
Cardiovascular Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford 
University, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA. Electronic address: jayraja@stanford.edu.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is characterized by the formation of amyloid-β (Aβ) in 
the extracellular region, neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in the intracellular 
region accompanied with neuroinflammation and decreased neurotransmitters in 
various regions of brain leading to neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. Of 
the various bioactive molecules, Cyclic Peptides (CPs) are small circular chains 
of amino acids that can alter the structure and function of the proteins they 
interact with. They can be synthesized using chemical or genetic approach 
leading to the generation of diverse libraries of CPs that are screened for 
binding with desired target proteins. In AD, CPs can interfere at various 
levels, by either imitating the structure or altering the conformation of 
amyloidogenic proteins. They can also interfere with signal transduction by 
competing with amyloid proteins for various receptors which are involved in AD 
pathology. This review highlights the application of CPs as scaffolds for the 
identification of novel small molecules that can interfere with amyloid 
aggregation or for the formulation of vaccination against AD. Other proteins 
involved in the pathophysiological pathways of AD that can potentially be 
targeted for CP design have also been discussed.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2025.118165
PMID: 40153992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


82. EBioMedicine. 2025 Apr;114:105659. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105659. Epub
2025  Mar 27.

Exploring the neuromagnetic signatures of cognitive decline from mild cognitive 
impairment to Alzheimer's disease dementia.

Gaubert S(1), Garces P(2), Hipp J(2), Bruña R(3), Lopéz ME(4), Maestu F(4), 
Vaghari D(5), Henson R(6), Paquet C(7), Engemann DA(8).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris Cité, Inserm UMRS 1144 Therapeutic Optimization in 
Neuropsychopharmacology, Paris, France; Cognitive Neurology Center, GHU.Nord 
APHP Hôpital Lariboisière Fernand Widal, Paris, France. Electronic address: 
sinead.gaubert@aphp.fr.
(2)Roche Pharma Research and Early Development, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases, 
Roche Innovation Center Basel, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Center for Cognitive and Computational Neuroscience, Universidad Complutense 
de Madrid, 28223, Madrid, Spain; Department of Radiology, Rehabilitation and 
Physiotherapy, School of Medicine, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, 
Spain.
(4)Center for Cognitive and Computational Neuroscience, Universidad Complutense 
de Madrid, 28223, Madrid, Spain; Department of Experimental Psychology, 
Cognitive Processes and Speech Therapy, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 
Madrid, Spain.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.
(6)MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, University of Cambridge, CB2 7EF, UK; 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, UK.
(7)Université Paris Cité, Inserm UMRS 1144 Therapeutic Optimization in 
Neuropsychopharmacology, Paris, France; Cognitive Neurology Center, GHU.Nord 
APHP Hôpital Lariboisière Fernand Widal, Paris, France.
(8)Roche Pharma Research and Early Development, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases, 
Roche Innovation Center Basel, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: denis.engemann@roche.com.

BACKGROUND: Developing non-invasive and affordable biomarkers to detect 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) at a prodromal stage is essential, particularly in the 
context of new disease-modifying therapies. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a 
critical stage preceding dementia, but not all patients with MCI will progress 
to AD. This study explores the potential of magnetoencephalography (MEG) to 
predict cognitive decline from MCI to AD dementia.
METHODS: We analysed resting-state MEG data from the BioFIND dataset including 
117 patients with MCI among whom 64 developed AD dementia (AD progression), 
while 53 remained cognitively stable (stable MCI), using spectral analysis. 
Logistic regression models estimated the additive explanation of selected 
clinical, MEG, and MRI variables for AD progression risk. We then built a 
high-dimensional classification model to combine all modalities and variables of 
interest.
FINDINGS: MEG 16-38Hz spectral power, particularly over parieto-occipital 
magnetometers, was significantly reduced in the AD progression group. In 
logistic regression models, decreased MEG 16-38Hz spectral power and reduced 
hippocampal volume/total grey matter ratio on MRI were independently linked to 
higher AD progression risk. The data-driven classification model confirmed, 
among other factors, the complementary information of MEG covariance 
(AUC = 0.74, SD = 0.13) and MRI cortical volumes (AUC = 0.77, SD = 0.14) to 
predict AD progression. Combining all inputs led to markedly improved 
classification scores (AUC = 0.81, SD = 0.12).
INTERPRETATION: These findings highlight the potential of spectral power and 
covariance as robust non-invasive electrophysiological biomarkers to predict AD 
progression, complementing other diagnostic measures, including cognitive scores 
and MRI.
FUNDING: This work was supported by: Fondation pour la Recherche Médicale (grant 
FDM202106013579).

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2025.105659
PMCID: PMC11995804
PMID: 40153923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests C.P. received payment 
or honoraria for advisory board from Lilly, Roche and Eisai. C.P. also received 
payments for consultation on the advisory boards of Lilly, Roche, Eisai and Novo 
Nordisk. C.P. received support for attending meetings, travel from Lilly, Roche 
and Eisai. P.G., J.F.H. & D.E. are full-time employees of F. Hoffmann–La Roche 
Ltd. F.M. received a grant from the Ministry of Science Government of Spain 
(grant PID2021-122979OB-C21).


83. J Neurosurg. 2025 Mar 28;143(1):135-145. doi: 10.3171/2024.12.JNS2420. Print 
2025 Jul 1.

Implications of the glymphatic system in the pathogenesis of normal pressure 
hydrocephalus: an illustrated scoping review.

Costa ML(1), Casanova-Martinez D(2)(3), Chen H(4)(5), Colasurdo M(6), Kan P(1).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Neurosurgery, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, 
Texas.
(2)2Escuela de Medicina, Universidad de Valparaiso School of Medicine, San 
Felipe, Chile.
(3)37 Laboratorio de Neuroanatomía Microquirúrgica (LaNeMic), Facultad de 
Medicina, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(4)4National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(5)5Department of Neurology, MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, 
DC; and.
(6)6Department of Interventional Radiology, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, Oregon.

Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) is characterized by the clinical 
triad of cognitive impairment, gait disturbances, and urinary incontinence, 
coupled with ventricular enlargement on brain imaging. The pathophysiology of 
iNPH remains complex, with varied patient responses to CSF diversion and a 
generally progressive nature of the disease. This scoping review aimed to 
provide an overview of the glymphatic system (GS) and its role in the 
development of iNPH. The review highlights the crucial function of the GS in 
maintaining brain homeostasis by clearing waste products from the interstitial 
space. Dysfunction in this system leads to impaired CSF clearance, resulting in 
the accumulation of neurotoxic substances that contribute to the symptoms of 
iNPH. Additionally, potential shared pathophysiological pathways between iNPH 
and other conditions affecting the GS such as aging, diabetes mellitus, 
hypertension, and sleep disorders are discussed. The findings suggest that GS 
dysfunction is a key factor in iNPH pathogenesis and may also be linked to the 
disease's poor responsiveness to shunt treatment. By enhancing understanding of 
these mechanisms, there is potential to develop targeted therapies aimed at 
restoring glymphatic function, thereby improving outcomes for patients with 
iNPH.

DOI: 10.3171/2024.12.JNS2420
PMID: 40153837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Aging Dis. 2024 Jul 15;16(4):2293-2314. doi: 10.14336/AD.2024.0573.

1953-2023. Seventy Years of the Nerve Growth Factor: A Potential Novel Treatment 
in Neurological Diseases?

Norata D(1)(2), Capone F(1)(2), Motolese F(1)(2), Marano M(1)(2), Rossi M(1)(2), 
Calandrelli R(3), Sacchetti M(4), Mantelli F(4), Di Lazzaro V(1)(2), Pilato 
F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery, Unit of Neurology, Neurophysiology, 
Neurobiology and Psychiatry, Università Campus Bio-Medico di Roma, Via Alvaro 
del Portillo, 21 - 00128 Roma, Italy.
(2)Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Campus Bio-Medico, Via Alvaro del 
Portillo, 200 - 00128 Rome, Italy.
(3)Radiology and Neuroradiology Unit, Department of Imaging, Radiation Therapy 
and Hematology, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Fondazione Policlinico 
Universitario Agostino Gemelli, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere 
Scientifico (IRCCS), Rome, Italy.
(4)Dompé Farmaceutici S.p.A., Via Campo di Pile -67100 L'Aquila, Italy.

Rita Levi-Montalcini's 1953 discovery of nerve growth factor (NGF) in mouse 
sarcoma tumors marked a groundbreaking moment in neuroscience. NGF, a key 
signaling molecule, became the first identified neurotrophic factor, influencing 
the growth, differentiation, and survival of neurons in both peripheral and 
central nervous systems. NGF and related neurotrophic factors hold therapeutic 
potential for various neurological disorders, such as Alzheimer's Disease, 
Parkinson's Disease, Huntington's Disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spinal 
cord injuries, neuropathies, traumatic brain injuries, and stroke. However, 
despite promising in vitro studies and animal models findings, NGF efficacy in 
patients remains unproven. Indeed, its use as a therapeutic agent faces 
challenges in delivery and clinical translation. This review delves into these 
challenges, exploring ongoing research on refined delivery methods, dosages, and 
safety profiles. Innovative strategies, including molecular mimicking, 
combination therapies, gene therapy, and coupling with neuromodulation 
techniques like transcranial magnetic stimulation and vagal nerve stimulation, 
are discussed. Incorporating nerve growth factor (NGF) into a comprehensive 
strategy may prove beneficial, particularly in non-neurodegenerative conditions 
such as stroke, trauma, and neuropathies. In these instances, NGF holds promise 
for promoting tissue regeneration and repair. Challenges persist in addressing 
the complexity of neurodegenerative pathologies for a combined therapeutic 
approach.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2024.0573
PMCID: PMC12221384
PMID: 40153582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Aging Dis. 2025 Mar 25. doi: 10.14336/AD.2025.10319. Online ahead of print.

Inflammatory Bridges: Interconnections Between Alzheimer's Disease and Bone 
Health.

Li H(1)(2)(3), Wang W(2)(3), Zhang L(4), Wang T(2)(3), Liu J(2)(3), Wu J(2), Ni 
Q(5), Sun B(2)(3)(5), Sun J(6).

Author information:
(1)Shandong First Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Taian, Shandong, 271016, China.
(2)The Second Affiliated Hospital, Shandong First Medical University & Shandong 
Academy of Medical Sciences, Taian, Shandong, 271000, China.
(3)Institute of Brain Science and Brain-Inspired Research, Shandong First 
Medical University & Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, Shandong, 
250117, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Shandong Second Provincial General Hospital, Jinan, 
Shandong, 250022, China.
(5)The Affiliated Taian City Central Hospital of Qingdao University, Taian, 
Shandong, 271000, China.
(6)Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong First Medical University, 
Jinan, Shandong, 250021, China.

Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder that predominantly affects 
the elderly and is characterized by complex pathogenesis. Within the unified 
framework of the ANT, the introduction of B (the disruption of the blood-brain 
barrier) facilitates communication between the brain and the periphery through 
the blood-brain barrier. In this context, inflammatory factors act as a bridge, 
and the neuroinflammation hypothesis is gaining increasing acceptance. This 
hypothesis involves the abnormal activation of microglia, the release of 
inflammatory mediators, and damage to astrocytes, which leads to blood-brain 
barrier impairment and subsequently triggers systemic inflammation. Bone health 
is associated with conditions such as osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid 
arthritis, and periodontitis. This hypothesis establishes a link between 
Alzheimer's disease and bone health. The present article aims to construct an 
inflammatory bridge between brain and bone health by summarizing the shared 
mechanisms between the two, specifically focusing on age-related NLRP3-induced 
pyroptosis, advanced glycation end products, oxidative stress, macrophage 
autophagy and lysosomal function, and calcium ion dysregulation. Additionally, 
it reviews the latest therapeutic approaches to explore potential clinical 
treatments related to the connection between Alzheimer's disease and bone health 
through these shared mechanisms.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2025.10319
PMID: 40153574


86. Metab Brain Dis. 2025 Mar 28;40(4):165. doi: 10.1007/s11011-025-01586-x.

Protective effects of alpha-lipoic acid on memory deficit induced by repeated 
doses of solifenacin in mice: the role of nitro-oxidative stress.

Dantas LP(1)(2), Carneiro de Vasconcelos E(1), da Silva Cunha C(1), Batista 
PVC(1), Torres MCS(1), de Sousa CNS(1), de Aquino GA(1), Dos Santos Junior 
MA(1), Freitas de Rezende PH(1), Silva de Vasconcelos W(1), Patrocinio MCA(3), 
Vasconcelos SMM(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuropsychopharmacology, Center for Research and Development of 
Medicines, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.
(2)General Hospital of Fortaleza, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Instituto Dr. Jose Frota, Fortaleza, CE, 
Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Neuropsychopharmacology, Center for Research and Development of 
Medicines, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil. 
silvania_vasconcelos@yahoo.com.br.

Solifenacin (Sol) is one of the most used antimuscarinics for the treatment of 
bladder dysfunction and there are no conclusive studies on its effects on 
learning and memory after long-term use. Since substances with antioxidant 
action, such as alpha-lipoic acid (ALA), have shown protective action in memory 
deficit and Alzheimer's disease, we decided to study the effects of Sol alone or 
associated with ALA in behavioral tests of memory and its relation to 
nitro-oxidative stress in different brain areas. Mice received saline or Sol 
p.o. for 14 or 28 days. ALA groups received: (a) saline + ALA, (b) Sol for 14 
days and Sol + ALA from the 15th to the 28th days and, (c) Sol + ALA for 28 
days. Behavioral tests were performed and oxidative changes (lipid peroxidation) 
and nitrite in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus (HC) and striatum (ST) 
were also determined. Sol produced memory alterations in the mice, reducing the 
step-down latency and the recognition index in the novel object recognition 
test. Sol also increased lipid peroxidation in PFC, HC and ST and nitrite levels 
in the HC. On the other hand, ALA associated with Sol was able to restrict the 
effects caused by Sol alone, both in relation to nitro-oxidative parameters and 
in relation to behavioral tests. Taken together, our data suggest that ALA can 
be administered as an adjunctive drug in patients requiring prolonged use of Sol 
to mitigate these adverse central nervous system effects. However, clinical 
studies need to be performed to corroborate preclinical research.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-025-01586-x
PMID: 40153090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
have no financial or proprietary interests in any material discussed in this 
article. Ethics approval: Experiments were performed in accordance with the 
National Institutes of Health Guide to the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. 
The project was approved by the Ethics Committee on Animal Use (protocol number 
9864280219) of the Federal University of Ceará. Consent to participate: Not 
applicable. Consent to publish: Not applicable.


87. J Mol Histol. 2025 Mar 28;56(2):122. doi: 10.1007/s10735-025-10406-6.

Efficacy of curcumin-selenium nanoemulsion in alleviating oxidative damage 
induced by aluminum chloride in a rat model of Alzheimer's disease.

Awad SM(1), Attia YA(2), ElSayed H(3), Abdelhafez SH(4), Keshta AT(5), Rashad 
E(6), Khalil HMA(7), Fathy AT(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Women for Arts, Science and Education, Ain Shams University, 
Cairo, 11757, Egypt.
(2)National Institute of Laser Enhanced Sciences, Cairo University, Giza, 12613, 
Egypt. yasserniles@niles.edu.eg.
(3)Department of Microbial Biotechnology, Biotechnology Research Institute, 
National Research Centre, Dokki, Giza, 12622, Egypt.
(4)Department of Chemistry, College of Science, Taif University, Taif, 21944, 
Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Zagazig University, Zagazig, 
44519, Egypt.
(6)Department of Cytology and Histology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Cairo 
University, Giza, 12211, Egypt.
(7)Department of Veterinary Hygiene and Animal management, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Cairo University, Giza, 12211, Egypt.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurological disorder primarily affecting 
older adults. A hallmark of this condition is the generation of reactive oxygen 
species (ROS), leading to increased oxidative stress and cellular damage. 
Treatment with a curcumin-selenium nanoemulsion has been shown to enhance 
behavioural performance and mitigate degenerative changes induced by aluminium 
chloride (AlCl3). This nanoemulsion also reduced the activity of 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and lowered levels of key proteins, including Aβ, 
p53, tau, nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), and tumour 
necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α). Additionally, it significantly decreased nitric 
oxide (NO) levels in the brain while enhancing the activity of catalase (CAT) 
and superoxide dismutase (SOD). The study highlights the antioxidant and 
anti-inflammatory properties of the curcumin-selenium nanoemulsion, suggesting 
its potential as a therapeutic option for alleviating AD induced by AlCl3. These 
results are further supported by improvements in the histological structure of 
the cortex and hippocampus, as well as enhanced immunohistochmical assessment of 
glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Cur- Se-nanoemulsion, the current drug 
delivery technology, may lower the amount of amyloid-β in AD rat brain and 
considerably ameliorate the memory deficit that improve therapy efficacy in AD 
lesions.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10735-025-10406-6
PMID: 40153089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethics approval and consent to participate: The 
use of animals in this study was approved by the Institutional Animal Care and 
Use Committee (IACUC) at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Cairo University, 
Egypt [Vet CU18042024897]. All procedures were conducted in compliance with 
ethical guidelines for experimental animal use. This study is reported in 
accordance with ARRIVE guidelines. All methods were carried out in accordance 
with relevant guidelines and regulations. Consent for Publication: Not 
applicable.


88. J Neurol. 2025 Mar 28;272(4):296. doi: 10.1007/s00415-025-13023-1.

The effects of dopaminergic medication and task load on trembling and akinetic 
freezing of gait in Parkinson's disease.

Zoetewei D(1), Ginis P(1), Herman T(2), Gilat M(1), D'Cruz N(1), Palmerini L(3), 
Gazit E(2), Hausdorff JM(2)(4)(5)(6), Nieuwboer A(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Neurorehabilitation Research Group 
(eNRGy), KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Center for the Study of Movement, Cognition, and Mobility, Neurological 
Institute, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)Department of Electrical, Electronic, and Information Engineering "Guglielmo 
Marconi", University of Bologna, 40136, Bologna, Italy.
(4)Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(5)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, Tel 
Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(6)Department of Orthopedic Surgery and Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush 
University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(7)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Neurorehabilitation Research Group 
(eNRGy), KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. alice.nieuwboer@kuleuven.be.

BACKGROUND: In people with Parkinson's disease (PD), freezing of gait (FOG) can 
manifest as an absence of leg movement (akinetic) or a presence of 
high-frequency leg trembling. FOG is triggered most often during turning or 
dual-tasking when OFF-medication, but it is unclear whether the same holds true 
for akinetic and trembling FOG.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the effects of dopaminergic medication and cognitive 
and motor tasks on trembling and akinetic FOG.
METHOD: Sixty-three PD patients with daily FOG performed a home-based 
FOG-provoking protocol OFF and ON-dopaminergic medication. FOG was 
video-annotated based on pre-specified definitions. We compared the % time in 
trembling and in akinetic FOG between OFF and ON. We also analyzed these 
outcomes during various motor tasks and with- and without a cognitive dual task. 
To identify subgroups, an exploratory k-means cluster analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Trembling and akinetic FOG co-occurred in most patients (82.5%), 
although trembling was observed most frequently. Both manifestations were 
ameliorated by medication, but we identified four different patterns: a 
responsive mild group (n = 32), an unresponsive akinetic-dominant group (n = 8), 
and two trembling-dominant groups with (n = 12) and without (n = 11) a response 
to medication. Task load also affected the manifestations differentially, as 
dual-tasking and gait initiation induced more akinetic FOG compared to other 
conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: Trembling and akinetic FOG respond similarly to dopaminergic 
medication (except for a specific trembling subgroup), yet they are 
differentially influenced by FOG triggers. Altogether, we suggest that 
"trembling" may represent a milder form of FOG, although "trembling" as a 
distinct FOG-variant cannot be rule out.

© 2025. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-025-13023-1
PMID: 40153030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: None. Ethics 
approval: All procedures performed in studies involving human participants were 
in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national 
research committee and with the 1964 Helsinki Declaration. The study was 
approved by the local Ethics committees in Israel (study: 0908-18-TLV) and in 
Belgium (EC Research UZ/KU Leuven, study: S62453). Consent to participate: 
Informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the 
study. Data availability: The data that were used in this study are available on 
request from the corresponding author.


89. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2025 Aug 1;84(8):668-679. doi:
10.1093/jnen/nlaf021.

Therapeutic potential and challenges of mesenchymal stem cells in neurological 
disorders: A concise analysis.

Issa EHB(1), Alghazo EM(1), Gharaibeh R(1), Momani NB(1), Taha DZ(1), Jaradat 
RJ(1), Alzu'bi A(1), Almahasneh FA(1), Abu-El-Rub E(1), Al-Zoubi RM(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Yarmouk 
University, Irbid, Jordan.
(2)Surgical Research Section, Department of Surgery, Hamad Medical Corporation, 
Doha, Qatar.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, QU-Health, College of Health Sciences, 
Qatar University, Doha, Qatar.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Art, Jordan University of 
Science and Technology, Irbid, Jordan.

Neurological diseases comprise a wide array of conditions affecting both the 
central and peripheral nervous systems. Neurodegenerative diseases encompass a 
group of debilitating and often fatal neurological disorders for which effective 
treatments are currently lacking. Stem cells are recognized for their remarkable 
capacity for proliferation, multilineage differentiation, and self-renewal. The 
transplantation of stem cells represents a significant advancement in 
therapeutic strategies for neurological disorders, with applications in both 
preclinical and clinical settings. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), in particular, 
have garnered substantial interest due to their unique properties, making them a 
highly sought-after source of therapeutic cells. Although the efficacy of MSCs 
in treating neurological disorders is well documented, further research is 
needed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms and to assess their in vivo 
applications more comprehensively. This article summarizes current research on 
the use of MSCs in the treatment of various neurological disorders, including 
Parkinson disease, stroke, multiple sclerosis, and Alzheimer disease.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American 
Association of Neuropathologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlaf021
PMCID: PMC12277701
PMID: 40152120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


90. Org Biomol Chem. 2025 Apr 16;23(16):3712-3740. doi: 10.1039/d4ob01897d.

A review on benzoselenazoles: synthetic methodologies and potential biological 
applications.

Yadav M(1), Singh VP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry & Centre of Advanced Studies in Chemistry, Panjab 
University, Sector-14, Chandigarh - 160 014, India. vijay@pu.ac.in.

Among the various heterocyclic organoselenium compounds, a new class of 
benzoselenazoles has received great attention due to their chemical properties 
and biological applications. The ever-growing interest in the five-membered 
benzoselenazole heterocycles amongst chemists has made commendable impact. These 
heterocycles are a prominent class of organic molecules that have emerged as 
potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of a wide range of diseases. 
Substantial progress has been made in elucidating the complex chemical 
properties of these heterocycles. Moreover, they have garnered significant 
importance in a wide range of biological applications. However, despite their 
biological activities, research on benzoselenazoles remains relatively limited, 
emphasising the need for further exploration in this area. Hence, considering 
the importance of benzoselenazoles, this comprehensive review compiles various 
synthetic procedures, highlighting the recent advances in their synthesis that 
have been disclosed in the literature. This review would offer chemists an array 
of information that will assist them in the development of more affordable and 
effective synthesis processes for benzoselenazoles. Therefore, it is believed 
that this review would provide relevant context on these achievements and will 
inspire synthetic organic chemists to use these effective technologies of such 
heterocycles for the future treatment of diseases caused by oxidative stress. 
The biological and pharmacological properties of these organoselenium 
heterocycles, which include their antioxidant, antitumor, and antibacterial 
activities and their application in Alzheimer's disease treatment and as 
pancreatic lipase inhibitors, are thoroughly summarized. Finally, this review 
provides some perspectives on the challenges and future directions in the 
development of benzoselenazoles as heterocyclic organoselenium compounds.

DOI: 10.1039/d4ob01897d
PMID: 40152071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(2):443-452. doi: 10.1177/13872877251329468.
Epub  2025 Mar 28.

Sex differences on tau, astrocytic, and neurodegenerative plasma biomarkers.

Labonte J(1), Sugarman MA(1)(2), Pettway E(1), Zetterberg H(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8), 
Blennow K(5)(6)(9)(10), Ashton NJ(6)(7)(11)(12)(13), Karikari TK(5)(6)(14), 
Aparicio HJ(1)(15), Frank B(1)(16), Tripodis Y(1)(17), Martin B(1)(18), 
Palmisano JN(1)(18), Steinberg EG(1), Simkin I(19), Farrer 
LA(1)(15)(17)(19)(20)(21)(22), Jun GR(19), Turk KW(1)(15)(16), Budson 
AE(1)(15)(16), O'Connor MK(1)(23), Au R(1)(15)(20)(21)(24), Goldstein 
LE(1)(18)(22)(25), Stern RA(1)(15)(24)(26), Stein TD(1)(16)(27)(28), McKee 
AC(1)(15)(16)(27)(28), Qiu WQ(1)(29)(30), Mez J(1)(15), Banks SJ(31), Alosco 
ML(1)(15).

Author information:
(1)Boston University Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and BU CTE Center, 
Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, 
SC, USA.
(3)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
UK.
(4)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, UCL Institute of Neurology, University 
College London, London, UK.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(7)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(8)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(9)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(10)Division of Life Sciences and Medicine, and Department of Neurology, 
Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Institute on Aging and Brain 
Disorders, University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated 
Hospital of USTC, Hefei, P.R. China.
(11)Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Psychology, and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
(12)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Mental Health and Biomedical Research 
Unit for Dementia at South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation, London, UK.
(13)Centre for Age-Related Medicine, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, 
Norway.
(14)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(15)Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(16)US Department of Veteran Affairs, VA Boston Healthcare System, Jamaica 
Plain, MA, USA.
(17)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(18)Biostatistics and Epidemiology Data Analytics Center, Boston University 
School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(19)Department of Medicine, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(20)The Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA, USA.
(21)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(22)Department of Ophthalmology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School 
of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(23)Department of Neuropsychology, Edith Nourse Rogers Memorial Veterans 
Hospital, Bedford, MA, USA.
(24)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(25)Department of Biomedical, Electrical, and Computer Engineering, Boston 
University College of Engineering, Boston, MA, USA.
(26)Department of Neurosurgery, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School 
of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(27)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Boston University Chobanian 
& Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(28)US Department of Veteran Affairs, VA Bedford Healthcare System, Bedford, MA, 
USA.
(29)Department of Psychiatry, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(30)Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Boston University 
Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(31)Departments of Neuroscience and Psychiatry, University of California, San 
Diego, CA, USA.

BackgroundSex differences have consistently been identified on autopsy, 
neuroimaging, and cerebrospinal fluid outcomes related to Alzheimer's disease 
(AD), but the exact mechanisms for these associations are unclear. Blood-based 
biomarkers are practical alternatives for the investigation of mechanisms of AD, 
in addition to accurate disease detection and monitoring.ObjectiveThe objective 
of this study was to examine sex differences across a panel of blood-based 
plasma biomarkers in participants with and without cognitive impairment due to 
AD.MethodsPlasma samples were collected from 567 participants from across the AD 
diagnostic continuum (i.e., normal cognition (NC), mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI), and dementia) and analyzed for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), 
neurofilament light (NfL), phosphorylated tau at threonine 181 (p-tau181), and 
total tau (t-tau). Baseline and longitudinal analyses evaluated for any 
significant associations between sex and AD-related plasma 
biomarkers.ResultsFemales were found to have higher plasma GFAP compared to 
males at baseline regardless of cognitive diagnosis. Among those with AD 
dementia, females were also found to have higher NfL levels compared to males. 
Longitudinal analyses found that higher plasma NfL at baseline was associated 
with an increased risk of worsening AD dementia status only in females. No 
significant findings were observed for p-tau181 or t-tau.ConclusionsThis study 
found significant sex differences in plasma biomarkers of GFAP and NfL. Further 
research is needed to better understand the underlying mechanisms mediating 
these differences.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251329468
PMCID: PMC12450407
PMID: 40151917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: MLA receives research 
support from Life Molecular Imaging Inc and Rainwater Charitable Foundation Inc. 
He has also received a single time honorarium from the Michael J Fox Foundation 
for services unrelated to this study. He received royalties from Oxford 
University Press Inc. AEB receives research support from Bristol-Myers Squibb 
and Vox Neuro. He receives consulting monies from Eli Lilly and AbbVie. He 
receives royalties from Elsevier and Oxford University Press. HZ has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, 
Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey Labs, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave, 
has given lectures in symposia sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, 
Fujirebio, Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Roche, and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program. KB has served as a consultant and at advisory boards for 
Abbvie, AC Immune, ALZPath, AriBio, BioArctic, Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, Moleac Pte. 
Ltd, Neurimmune, Novartis, Ono Pharma, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics, and Siemens 
Healthineers; has served at data monitoring committees for Julius Clinical and 
Novartis; has given lectures, produced educational materials and participated in 
educational programs for AC Immune, Biogen, Celdara Medical, Eisai and Roche 
Diagnostics; and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB 
(BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the work 
presented in this paper. KT receives industry funding from Vox Neuro. RA serves 
as a scientific advisor to Signant Health and NovoNordisk and as a consultant to 
the Davos Alzheimer's Collaborative. None of this research, consulting, or 
royalties are related to this study. Henrik Zetterberg, Rhoda Au, and Michael L 
Alosco are Editorial Board Members of this journal but were not involved in the 
peer-review process of this article nor had access to any information regarding 
its peer-review.


92. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Apr;104(4):1103-1114. doi: 10.1177/13872877251322687. 
Epub 2025 Mar 28.

APOE ε4 influences the dynamic functional connectivity variability and cognitive 
performance in Alzheimer's disease.

Gong C(1), Song W(1), Zhu Z(2), Yang D(3), Zhao X(4)(5), Xu Y(1)(2)(3)(6)(7)(8), 
Zhao H(1)(2)(3)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of 
Medical School, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital Clinical College of 
Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Clinical College of 
Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Neurology and Oncology Drug Development, Jiangsu 
Simcere Diagnostics, Nanjing, China.
(5)Simcere Medical Laboratory Science, Nanjing, China.
(6)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Medical School of Nanjing 
University, Nanjing, China.
(7)Jiangsu Province Stroke Center for Diagnosis and Therapy, Nanjing, China.
(8)Nanjing Neuropsychiatry Clinic Medical Center, Nanjing, China.

BackgroundApolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 is the most significant genetic risk factor 
for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, its impact on the dynamic 
changes in resting-state functional connectivity (FC), particularly concerning 
network formation, interaction, and dissolution over time, remains largely 
unexplored in AD.ObjectiveThis study aims to explore the effect of APOE ε4 on 
dynamic FC (dFC) variability and cognitive performance in AD.MethodsWe analyzed 
the dFC of AD patients, comparing APOE ε4 carriers (n = 33) with non-carriers 
(n = 41). The whole-brain dFC was assessed by calculating dynamic fractional 
amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (dfALFF) and dynamic regional 
homogeneity (dReHo). To further explore the relationship between cognitive 
function and dFC in AD patients, we conducted a correlation analysis. Mediation 
analysis was also performed to determine whether dFC mediates the link between 
the APOE ε4 and cognitive decline in AD patients.ResultsAD patients carrying the 
APOE ε4 exhibited more severe cognitive impairment, along with reduced dReHo and 
dfALFF in both the left and right posterior cerebellar lobes. In these carriers, 
the dFC analysis showed lower dFC between the left posterior cerebellar lobe and 
the left middle temporal gyrus, which was positively correlated with executive 
function and information processing speed. Additionally, mediation analysis 
indicated that APOE ε4 influences dFC in this brain region, contributing to 
executive dysfunction in AD.ConclusionsThese findings offer preliminary evidence 
that APOE ε4 modulates fluctuating communication within the cerebellar lobe and 
the dFC between the cerebellar lobe and the temporal gyrus in AD.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251322687
PMID: 40151915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article. Data availabilityThe original 
contributions presented in the study are included in the article, further 
inquiries can be directed to the corresponding authors.


93. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(2):416-432. doi: 10.1177/13872877251329439.
Epub  2025 Mar 28.

Semaglutide improves cognitive function and neuroinflammation in APP/PS1 
transgenic mice by activating AMPK and inhibiting TLR4/NF-κB pathway.

Zhai Y(1)(2), Lu K(1)(2), Yuan Y(1)(2)(3), Zhang Z(1)(2), Xue L(1)(2), Zhao 
F(1)(2), Xu X(1)(2), Wang H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Shanghai Sixth People's Hospital Affiliated to 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200233, China.
(2)Shanghai Neurological Rare Disease Biobank and Precision Diagnostic Technical 
Service Platform, Shanghai 200233, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Ruijin Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200025, China.

BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) causes cognitive function disorder and has 
become the preeminent cause of dementia. Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
receptor agonists, semaglutide, have shown positive effects on promoting the 
cognitive function. However, research about the mechanism of semaglutide as a 
therapeutic intervention in AD is sparse.ObjectiveThis study was to investigate 
the therapeutic efficacy of semaglutide in a transgenic mouse model of AD 
pathology and explored the detailed mechanism by semaglutide modulated 
neuroinflammatory processes.MethodsMale amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 
(APP/PS1) transgenic mice were treated with semaglutide or vehicle for 8 weeks. 
Morris water maze test was used to assess the therapeutic efficacy of 
semaglutide on recognition function. Pathology analysis was performed to detect 
the deposition of amyloid plaques. High-throughput sequencing analysis was 
applied to specify the mechanism. Microglia and astrocyte activation were 
assessed with immunofluorescent staining. Inflammation cytokine levels were 
evaluated with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Related proteins and 
pathway were evaluated with western blot.ResultsSemaglutide treatment attenuated 
Aβ accumulation and enhanced cognitive function in APP/PS1 transgenic mice. 
Through transcriptomic profiling, immunohistochemical staining, and ELISA, 
semaglutide was substantiated to inhibit the overactivation of microglia and 
astrocytes, as well as to curtail the secretion of inflammatory mediators. 
Furthermore, semaglutide robustly activated AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) 
and suppressed the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)/nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) 
signaling cascade, thus reducing the Aβ deposition and dampening the 
inflammatory cascade.ConclusionsThe results demonstrated that semaglutide 
mitigated neuroinflammation and decelerated the advance of AD in APP/PS1 
transgenic mice.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251329439
PMID: 40151913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 May;105(2):331-350. doi: 10.1177/13872877251328698.
Epub  2025 Mar 28.

Gamma oscillation modulation for cognitive impairment: A systematic review.

Bartolini E(1), Di Crosta A(1), La Malva P(1), Marin A(2)(3), Ceccato I(1), 
Prete G(1), Mammarella N(1), Di Domenico A(1), Palumbo R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University "G. d'Annunzio" of Chieti-Pescara, 
Chieti, CH, Italy.
(2)Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(3)Center for Translational Cognitive Neuroscience, VA Boston Healthcare System, 
Boston, MA, USA.

BackgroundGamma oscillation modulation has emerged as a potential non-invasive 
treatment to counteract cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Non-invasive brain stimulation techniques like 
transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS), gamma sensory stimulation 
(GSS), and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) show promise in supporting 
specific cognitive functions.ObjectiveTo review and evaluate the efficacy of 
gamma oscillation modulation techniques in benefiting cognitive functions among 
individuals with AD and MCI.MethodsA systematic review was conducted, analyzing 
studies from 2015 to 2023 across databases such as PubMed, Web of Science, and 
Scopus. Inclusion criteria focused on studies involving tACS, GSS, or TMS 
applied to older adults with MCI or AD. A total of 438 articles were screened, 
of which 10 met the eligibility criteria.ResultsFindings suggest that gamma 
tACS, especially targeting the precuneus and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, 
benefits episodic memory and cognitive performance. GSS also showed potential in 
supporting memory and attention, while TMS exhibited inconsistent but promising 
results when applied to the angular gyrus. However, heterogeneity in study 
designs and small sample sizes limit the generalizability of these 
outcomes.ConclusionsGamma oscillation modulation offers potential cognitive 
benefits for patients with AD and MCI, particularly in memory support. Further 
studies with larger samples and well-designed protocols are needed to confirm 
its therapeutic efficacy and optimize intervention parameters.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877251328698
PMID: 40151908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Open Life Sci. 2025 Mar 25;20(1):20251077. doi: 10.1515/biol-2025-1077. 
eCollection 2025.

Sleep architecture in Alzheimer's disease continuum: The deep sleep question.

Foukarakis I(1), Sampatakakis SN(1), Mamalaki E(1), Kyrozis A(1), Ntanasi E(1), 
Tsapanou A(2)(3), Yannakoulia M(4), Rouskas K(5), Scarmeas N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Neurology, Aiginition Hospital, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens Medical School, 11528, Athens, Greece.
(2)The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Taub Institute for Research in Alzheimer's 
Disease and the Aging Brain, Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New 
York, NY, 10032, United States of America.
(3)Department of Speech and Language Therapy, School of Health Rehabilitation 
Sciences, University of Patras, Patras, 26504, Greece.
(4)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Harokopio University, 17671 Athens, 
Greece.
(5)Institute of Applied Biosciences, Centre for Research & Technology Hellas, 
54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.

As sleep appears to be closely related to cognitive status, we aimed to explore 
the association between the percentage of deep sleep, cognitive state, and the 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker amyloid-beta 42 in non-demented individuals. 
In this cross-sectional study, 90 non-demented participants from the Aiginition 
Longitudinal Biomarker Investigation of Neurodegeneration cohort underwent a 
one-night WatchPAT sleep evaluation. Participants were categorized by cognitive 
status (patients with mild cognitive impairment [MCI] or cognitively normal [CN] 
individuals) and CSF Aβ42 status (Aβ42 ≤ 1,030 pg/mL [A+] or Ab42 > 1,030 pg/mL 
[A-]). After controlling for age, sex, and years of education, a significant 
inverse association was found between the percentage of deep sleep and the odds 
of being classified as MCI compared to CN (OR = 0.86, 95% CI [0.76-0.97], p = 
0.012). However, a non-significant trend for an inverse association between the 
percentage of deep sleep and the odds of being classified as A+ was observed (OR 
= 0.92, 95% CI [0.84-1.01], p = 0.092). This study demonstrates a significant 
link between deep sleep and MCI. Although more longitudinal studies are needed, 
deep sleep could potentially serve as a novel biomarker of cognitive decline and 
an intervention target for dementia prevention.

© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter.

DOI: 10.1515/biol-2025-1077
PMCID: PMC11947663
PMID: 40151623

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Authors state no conflict 
of interest.


96. Front Vet Sci. 2025 Mar 13;12:1518379. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2025.1518379. 
eCollection 2025.

Extended release huperzine for the treatment of idiopathic epilepsy in dogs - a 
Case Report.

Grant KL(1), Long SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Veterinary Referral Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

Huperzine is a naturally occurring alkaloid derived from the Chinese clubmoss 
Huperzia serrata. It is a potent acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, among other 
properties, and has demonstrated protection against induced seizures in a mouse 
model of Dravet's syndrome as well as nerve-agent induced seizures and is being 
explored as a novel anticonvulsant in a human clinical trial for focal impaired 
awareness seizures. It is also being explored as a treatment for Alzheimer's, 
via neuroprotective effects and an ability to ameliorate neuroinflammation. Here 
we present a case series of 6 dogs with idiopathic epilepsy treated with 
huperzine to investigate this potential novel anticonvulsant. Despite a 50% drop 
out rate over the course of the study due to various causes including 
unexplained death, humane euthanasia and systemic disease, huperzine was 
generally well tolerated and showed some positive effects on demeanor. This 
study highlights the need for more research to investigate its efficacy as a 
novel antiepileptic medication in dogs.

Copyright © 2025 Grant and Long.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2025.1518379
PMCID: PMC11948622
PMID: 40151570

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that this study received 
funding from Biscayne Pharmaceuticals. The funder had the following involvement 
in the study: study design.


97. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Mar 27;11(1):e70073. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70073. 
eCollection 2025 Jan-Mar.

Optimized 5-HT(2b) inhibitors for neuropsychiatric syndromes with cognitive 
dysfunction.

Roy SM(1), Acquarone E(2), Argyrousi EK(2), Zhang H(2), Staniszewski A(2), Inoue 
A(3)(4), Ziarek JJ(1), Arancio O(2)(5), Watterson DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Feinberg School of Medicine Northwestern 
University Chicago Illinois USA.
(2)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain New 
York New York USA.
(3)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences Tohoku University Sendai Japan.
(4)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences Kyoto University Kyoto Japan.
(5)Departments of Medicine and Pathology and Cell Biology Columbia University 
New York New York USA.

INTRODUCTION: Neuropsychiatric syndromes such as anxiety and agitation are 
clinical presentations common to diverse neurodegenerative diseases and brain 
injury sequelae. They are a concern due to the impact on cognition, social 
interactions, and non-pharmacological treatments. Cognitive or behavioral 
disturbances occur at early disease stages and increase with disease 
progression. Coincident pathologies include the loss of serotonin (5-HT) neurons 
and appearance of neurofibrillary tangles in the raphe nucleus. Brain 5-HT2b 
receptor (5-HT2bR) levels are increased in Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS), and post-stroke morbidity. HTR2B gene variants are 
implicated in psychiatric disorders. 5-HTRs are associated with atypical 
neurotropic drug mechanisms and behavioral dysfunction in drug abuse. The 
accumulating body of evidence suggests that selective 5-HT2bR inhibition might 
mitigate neuropsychiatric syndromes and the associated cognitive dysfunction. 
Atypical neurotropic drugs interact with a variety of monoamine receptors and 
outcomes are viewed as a combination of 5-HT and dopamine D2 receptor mediated 
actions. Clearly, there is a need for insight into precision 5-HT2bR inhibition 
as a potential pharmacological mechanism for treatment of neuropsychiatric 
syndromes and cognitive dysfunction associated with dementia.
METHODS: Strategic optimization of an atypical neurotropic drug was used to 
develop MW073, a highly selective and orally bioavailable inhibitor of 5-HT2bR 
activity and β-arrestin-1 recruitment that is devoid of dopamine receptor 
recognition and risk of 5-HT2bR agonist activity.
RESULTS: MW073 ameliorates amyloid and tau induction of behavioral dysfunction 
in preventive or disease stage intervention paradigms. Using MW073 as a standard 
of comparison, risperidone was shown to be a dose-dependent inhibitor 5-HT2bR 
activity and β-arrestin-1 recruitment.
DISCUSSION: Selective inhibition of 5-HT2bR activity is a viable mechanism for 
the treatment of neuropsychiatric syndromes with synaptic dysfunction as a root 
cause and is a previously unrealized pharmacodynamic mechanism potentially 
embedded in current neurotherapeutics.
HIGHLIGHTS: A new highly selective 5-HT2bR antagonist, MW073, is described and 
used as a reference standard.MW073 attenuates synaptic and behavioral 
dysfunctions an animal models of neuropsychatric syndromes.Risperidone is a dose 
dependent inhibitor of 5-HT2bR activity and arrestin recruitment.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70073
PMCID: PMC11947739
PMID: 40151398

Conflict of interest statement: Saktimayee M. Roy, Joshua J. Ziarek, Ottavio 
Arancio, D. Martin Watterson are investigators on a NIH peer‐reviewed NIH award 
(AG066722) to Northwestern and Columbia Universities that supported the research 
reported. Saktimayee M. Roy, Erica Acquarone, Ottavio Arancio, and D. Martin 
Watterson are authors on patent applications filed by Northwestern and Columbia 
Universities that cover potential commercial use but not research use of MW073. 
The other authors have no relevant disclosures. Author disclosures are available 
in the supporting information.


98. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Mar 27;11(1):e70074. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70074. 
eCollection 2025 Jan-Mar.

Combination therapy targeting Alzheimer's disease risk factors is associated 
with a significant delay in Alzheimer's disease-related cognitive decline.

Shang Y(1), Torrandell-Haro G(1)(2), Vitali F(1)(3)(4), Brinton RD(1)(2)(3); 
Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI).

Author information:
(1)Center for Innovation in Brain Science University of Arizona Health Sciences 
Tucson Arizona USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology College of Medicine University of Arizona Tucson 
Arizona USA.
(3)Department of Neurology College of Medicine University of Arizona Tucson 
Arizona USA.
(4)Center for Biomedical Informatics and Biostatistics University of Arizona 
Tucson Arizona USA.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) cognitive decline can be a major 
contributor to loss of independent living. Therapeutic strategies that alter the 
course of cognitive deterioration have the potential to sustain activities of 
daily living, promote quality of life, and delay transition to nursing-home 
care.
METHODS: We performed longitudinal linear regression analysis of National 
Alzheimer's Coordinating Center (NACC) cognitive data from 7653 mild dementia AD 
participants at baseline with at least one medication for diabetes (DBMD), 
lipid-lowering (LIPL), anti-hypertensive (AHTN), and non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory (NSD) medications or any combination in 5684 (74%) 
participants and in 1969 (26%) participants with no study-relevant prescriptions 
over 10 years. Change in cognitive function was determined by Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE) and CDR® Dementia Staging Instrument Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) 
scores relative to non-treated participants stratified by sex and apolipoprotein 
E (APOE) genotype. Validation analysis was performed using Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) dataset.
RESULTS: Combination of DBMD+LIPL+AHTN+NSD (QuadRx) resulted in a significant 
46% MMSE and 32% CDR-SB delay in cognitive decline at 5 years, which was 
sustained at 10 years with a delay in decline of 47% MMSE and 33% CDR-SB. QuadRx 
was equally effective for the delay of cognitive decline in both females and 
males at 5 and 10 years. QuadRx mitigated the impact of the APOE ε4 genotype. 
Findings were validated in ADNI AD participants in which QuadRx was associated 
with a significant 60% MMSE delay in cognitive decline at 1 and 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination therapy was associated with a significant delay in 
cognitive decline in NACC AD participants at a magnitude comparable to or 
greater than amyloid beta immunomodulators. Further, the delay in decline was 
sustained for 10 years. The impact of QuadRx to delay cognitive decline was 
validated in deeply characterized ADNI participants. These data support 
combination therapy in persons with AD risk factors to alter the course of AD 
that persists for a decade, enabling cognitive function at a magnitude 
associated with independent living.
HIGHLIGHTS: QuadRx slowed Alzheimer's disease (AD) cognitive decline by 47% in 
the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center NACC and 60% in Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative ADNI participants.Combination therapy exhibited additive 
and synergistic slowing of cognitive decline.QuadRx was equally effective in 
females and males at 5 and 10 years.QuadRx mitigated the impact of the 
apolipoprotein E ε4 genotype.QuadRx was effective in AD participants reporting 
drug use for their AD risk factor.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70074
PMCID: PMC11947753
PMID: 40151397

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


99. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2025 Mar 27;11(1):e70072. doi: 10.1002/trc2.70072. 
eCollection 2025 Jan-Mar.

Biomarkers for neurodegenerative diseases in regulatory decision-making by the 
European Medicines Agency.

Hermans AMM(1)(2), Bakker E(2), Starokozhko V(1)(2)(3), den Otter L(1)(4), 
Elferink AJA(1)(3), Bradshaw A(5), Guizzaro L(3), Mol PGM(1)(2)(3), Pasmooij 
AMG(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Dutch Medicines Evaluation Board (MEB) Utrecht The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University Medical Centre 
Groningen University of Groningen Groningen The Netherlands.
(3)European Medicines Agency Amsterdam The Netherlands.
(4)Mental Health and Neuroscience Research Institute Maastricht University 
Maastricht The Netherlands.
(5)Alzheimer Europe Luxembourg Ville Luxembourg.
(6)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology Utrecht Institute 
for Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) Utrecht University Utrecht The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Biomarkers (BMs) are valuable tools to facilitate early diagnosis 
of (subtypes of) diseases, improve patient selection and stratification, and 
detect therapeutic effects or safety concerns. This study explores the extent to 
which BMs are utilized in the development of treatments for neurodegenerative 
diseases (NDDs), as well as topics of discussion regarding BMs in regulatory 
advice- and decision-making processes and sharing of BM-related data.
METHODS: The European Medicines Agency's marketing authorization application 
(MAA), qualification (QA/QO), and scientific advice (SA) procedures regarding 
NDDs were screened, and those that mention BMs were analyzed. Data were 
extracted on the intended disease, BM type, and context of use proposed by 
applicants. BMs were categorized based on both nature and function.
RESULTS: In total, 105 procedures that discussed BMs were analyzed, 57 SAs 
(January 2020 to December 2022), 19 QAs/QOs (January 2008 to December 2023), and 
29 MAAs (January 1995 to December 2023). The majority involved Alzheimer's 
disease (AD; n = 30), Parkinson's disease (PD; n = 9), and multiple sclerosis 
(MS; n = 33). Imaging BMs were the most common type of BMs discussed, and most 
BMs were used as pharmacodynamic/response measures. The acceptance and role of 
BMs differed between AD, PD, MS, and other NDDs. In regulatory procedures for 
AD, for example, diagnostic BMs guiding patient selection were commonly 
discussed, whereas in MAAs for MS, imaging BMs (particularly lesions) were 
generally accepted as supportive/secondary endpoints.
DISCUSSION: Despite the established role of certain BMs, mainly imaging BMs for 
MS, there remains a major need for more precise and reliable BMs to improve 
diagnostic accuracy and treatment monitoring for NDDs. To implement novel BMs 
and facilitate development of new treatments and to eventually improve clinical 
practice, robust evidence bases showcasing biological plausibility or clear 
clinical benefits are essential. Collaboration and data-sharing among 
stakeholders is vital in generating this evidence and enhancing the 
understanding and management of NDDs.
HIGHLIGHTS: The European Medicines Agency's marketing authorization applications 
and qualification and scientific advice procedures.One hundred five procedures 
were analyzed regarding neurodegenerative diseases that discuss biomarkers.We 
found that acceptance and role of biomarkers differ per disease.Biological 
plausibility/clinical benefits are essential for biomarker implementation.

© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.70072
PMCID: PMC11947766
PMID: 40151396

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no competing interests for 
this work. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


100. Curr Neuropharmacol. 2025 Mar 27. doi: 10.2174/011570159X357722250212094900.
 Online ahead of print.

Synthetic Derivates of Progesterone Ameliorate Scopolamine-Induced Cognitive 
Deficits in Animal Models: Antioxidant, Enzyme Inhibitory, Molecular Docking and 
Behavioral Correlates.

Nawaz A(1), Sadiq A(1), Bashir N(2), Rashid U(3), Ullah F(1), Khan S(4), Ullah 
F(5), Khan MI(6), Ayaz M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of 
Malakand, Chakdara, 18000 Dir (L), KP, Pakistan.
(2)Deptment of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, King Khalid University, Abha, 61421, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Chemistry, COMSATS University Islamabad, 22060 Abbottabad, 
Pakistan.
(4)Khyber Medical College, Khyber Medical University, Peshawar, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Kohat University of Science and Technology (KUST), 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), Pakistan.
(6)Public Health Department, College of Health Sciences, Saudi Electronic 
University, Abha Male 61421, Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurological disorder characterized by 
cognitive decline and behavioral turbulence and is anticipated to badly affect 
the patient's quality of life. Previous studies revealed the neuroprotective 
effects of progesterone, so this study aimed to appraise the neuroprotective 
potentials of new derivatives of progesterone (AN-1 to AN-5).
METHODS: Subsequent to compound synthesis and structure elucidation, the 
in-vitro antioxidant (DPPH), acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase 
(BChE) inhibitory and molecular docking studies were performed following 
standard procedures. The most potent compound was subjected to more detailed 
behavioral studies, including Y-Maze, Elevated Plus Maze (EPM), and open field 
tests in scopolamine-induced amnesic animals.
RESULTS: In the DPPH assay, the AN-1 compound at 1000 μg/ml concentration 
exhibited 83.37 ± 2.03% inhibition of DPPH free radicals and an IC50 value of 
24.81 μg/ml. Likewise, the compound AN-1 demonstrated 88.94 ± 1.20% inhibition 
against AChE and 86.78 ± 1.24% inhibition against BChE enzymes at 1000 μg/ml 
with IC50 values of 24.51 and 18.79 μg/ml, correspondingly. In behavioral 
studies, compound AN-1 demonstrated a significant decline in cognitive 
impairments and improved working memory as well as locomotor activities of the 
amnesic animals. Molecular docking studies also demonstrated that the compound 
AN-1 has promising inhibitory potentials against AChE and BChE enzymes by 
binding to their active sites. The binding energies of AN-1 with both enzymes 
were -7.6 Kcal/mol for AChE and -8.1 Kcal/mol for BChE.
CONCLUSION: Based on our findings, it is concluded that the derivatives of 
progesterone exhibit neuroprotective potential, and further research is needed 
to extend their neuroprotective role in the treatment of AD.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/011570159X357722250212094900
PMID: 40151077